https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161275.Superman
The end of an era! This TPB collects “Superman” # 423 & “Action Comics” #583.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIlustrator: Curt SwanInkers: George Pérez & Kurt SchaffenbergerEditor: Julius Schwartz FARENHEIT 1,763  If the nuisances from my past are coming back as killers… …what happens when the killers come back? It was 1986, and the Silver Age of Comic Books were coming to an end.It’s an odd feeling to remember that, since I am used to think about the Silver Age as something of the 70s,
It was 1986, and the Silver Age of Comic Books were coming to an end.It’s an odd feeling to remember that, since I am used to think about the Silver Age as something of the 70s, and always realizing that it ended just 4 years before reaching the 90s… it’s an odd feeling indeed.Julius Schwartz, the now iconic editor who updated to the Silver Age so many characters like Green Lantern, The Flash, Hawkman and The Atom, is a true synonym of that era, at least in the titles of DC Comics.
Therefore, it was just right that Julius Schwartz would come out with the basic idea for this iconic story, that Alan Moore developed the bold narrative, along with the outstanding illustrations of Curt Swan, and the great inks of George Pérez & Kurt Schaffenberger.
It's also a good reminder that Alan Moore writes a great Swamp Thing.For the Man Who Has Everything: Wonder Woman, Batman, and Robin arrive at the Fortress of Solitude for Superman's birthday, only to find him in the thrall of an alien symbiont and Mongul lurking in the background...I liked this almost as much as the title story.
I thought this was good. Alan Moore can be a fantastic story-teller. What happens to our superhero's? How does their story end? Alan thought of this concept first. It's an interesting question. Many of his enemies and best friends are in this story. There is also more than one story in this. The art seems very 80s which is when these stories were created. Still, Superman is understood here. It's before they went and ruined Superman in the movies.
It's hard (for me, anyway) to rate this one properly.This is the historic Final Farewell to the Silver Age Superman story. It's one of those things you have to read. No doubt about it, you've just gotta do it.I just wish I'd read it back in 1986. Don't get me wrong, it was good. Just...meeeeh not mind-blowing. What can I say? It's 25 years old, and it shows.5 stars for the Important Moment in Comics factor1 star for the ugly 80's art (I can't help how I feel!)3 stars for an ok plot
Honestly, I didn't think this was all that great. I only rated it 3 stars because I like Alan Moore's work, but this was so ho-hum kinda boring for big gaps.
[image error] Introduction:  There were many comics during the 1980s that really helped redefine the comic book industry, such as Frank Miller’s classic “Batman” story, “Batman: The Dark Knight Returns,” which helped redefine Batman into a darker and edgier character. Another comic that really stood out for DC comics during the 1980s was none other than “Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?” which was actually the final “Superman” story to be written in the style of the silver age
After I read Alan Moore’s classic “Batman” story, “Batman: The Killing Joke,” I just had to check out Alan Moore’s other works with the DC Universe and after many of my friends recommended me this comic, I decided to check out “Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?” This is honestly the first “Superman” comic book I had ever read, even though I knew Superman from watching “Superman: The Animated Series” and “Smallville.” 
Deluxe Edition hardcover is a collection of 3 Alan Moore penned tales from the original Superman continuity before the line was relaunched and reimagined.
The first story, whose title is also the name of this collection, “Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow”, is originally a two-part tale that originally ran on the two Superman monthlies.
This is the story; long time Superman editor Julius Schwartz commissioned Moore to end his run on the Superman titles.
This one is notable as it features both Superman and the character Moore made first mark in American comics, the Swamp Thing.
This is the last Superman story from the original line of comics before John Byrne relaunched the title in 1986 with “Man of Steel”, and who better to end it than celebrated 80s comics virtuoso Alan Moore?
Alan Moore has always been a writer whom I’ve been told repeatedly is the greatest comics writer ever but whenever I read him, I’m never fully convinced of that.
Alan Moore might’ve written some interesting books in the 80s but “Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?” isn’t one of them.
People need to die.
And Superman must DIE!
I also enjoyed seeing how vastly different superman is now than what he was.
What I didn't like: How they tried to Dark Knight Superman.
Sorry old cartoony looking superhero comics are hard for me to enjoy tbh.
I never thought Moore did very good on Swamp thing tbh and liked him done by different (and better writers).
Overall this is interesting to read because of it being so old and a change in status quo but overall it was hardly worth my time in the end.
Big old MEH!
It arguably set the stage for the later tone of the '90's comics, though that is more of a case of writers completely missing the boat on what Alan Moore was doing in writing MoT.Shortly after the conclusion of Crisis on Infinite Earths, DC Comics editor Julius Schwartz was looking to tell a big story to finish up the combined Gold, Silver, and Bronze Ages of Superman comics, and to send off some of the current team that worked on some of the comics for so long.
Don't get me wrong, it can be great fun to see a character like Swamp Thing show up in Superman comics, but really, that's the crossover?
This passes as a classic super-hero story?
It's an alright story, but it certainly isn't a classic.
It's a throw-away "what if?" story.Superman's last days are recalled by Lois Lane ten years after Superman's death.
The recently married Lois Elliot gets interviewed by a guy from the Daily Planet in order to write a piece for a Superman Memorial edition of the paper.I didn't recognize any of Superman's foes, not being a well-read Superman fan, except for Lex Luther.The panel with the other superheros banging on the force field is hilarious.
(such as Bendis writing the 200 page Daredevil End of Days)- argh...
this story would have been swept under the carpet if it weren't for Moore's fame.(less)
Three separate Superman stories, taking place over four separate issues of the comic that tackle mortality, existentialism, and regret through the lens of this seemingly “uber-man.” While impeccably written, the stories sometimes feel a little dated (they came out in the mid-80s, it’s inevitable). Of course, considering the current DC film version of Superman, who has all the emotional depth of a moody teenager, the characterizations here feel weighted, like they actually MEAN something.
Pretty lacklustre in plot and story. Old school artwork was enjoybale but the plot occasionally has boring parts where the gaps are being filled.

I had never actually gotten around to reading this until it came out in the Deluxe Hardcover.My thought was...
I'm sure I'd read other stories "retiring" Superman in the past.
This one stood above them all, but still, that wasn't as high as most of hte other stuff I'd read by Moore.The art, I thought, was so-so, it wasn't bad, but again I've seen alot better.I understand that this was a "farewell" to the Superman of that era and a move towards something new (notice I didn't say better).Perhaps of the fact that I read it so long after it's original publication affected my view, had I read it when it was actually published in Superman and Action Comics, I might have felt differently.
It was a good read, nothing life changing or super special, but good read indeed.
Unreadable. Makes Death of Superman look like Shakespeare. The artwork is blah, even for the times. Might take another look in a few years but this is going to the bottom of the list.
Questionable ethics of DC's constant packaging and repackaging of Moore's work aside, it's nice to have Moore's 80's Superman stories all in one place.
The two-part title story is the best thing here.
Unfortunately, most of Moore's acolytes in the superhero biz only took cues from the first part...The other two stories also approach the concept of being Superman from interesting angles.
In "The Jungle Line," Swamp Thing saves Superman by commanding him to "stop fighting" and try practicing some radical acceptance.
Swamp Thing's Rick Veitch and Watchmen's Dave Gibbons also do phenomenal work in their respective stories.
The Action Comic storyline dealt with Superman having to deal one last time with all his main villains as they try to bring Superman's fated death upon him.
During this story, Clark Kent was outed as Superman to the entire Daily Planet staff.(2 stars)The next story had Superman being saved by Swamp Thing.
(1 star)The last story was titled "The Man Who Has Everything"; it is Superman's birthday and Batman, Robin, and Wonder Woman visit Superman's fortress to help him celebrate.
Wonder Woman is busy dealing the villain who sent Superman the plant as a gift.
The stories in this collected book range in quality.
The later ones are great,especially the Swamp Thing/Superman crossover.
The title farewell story of the Silver Age Superman, however, is lacking.
It's difficult to write a silver age story after the fact.
Those stories were written in an age of innocence.
That innocence is gone, and to revisit it feels phony.
Moore's rendition of Superman's farewell lacks both the depth of a latter day Superman comic as well as the spirit of the early days.
It is flawed from every angle, and in my opinion, not very great.
So after reading The Killing Joke the main feature of this book was kinda disappointing but I upped the overall rating because I really enjoyed the back up stories a lot more.
Felt like rereading the title story and discovered I'd never read the Swamp Thing or Mongul story. I've seen the animated Justice League show's version of the Mongul story, and have always liked it, but I had no idea the Swamp Thing story existed, and it's absolutely fantastic. In fact, possibly my favorite story here.
Taking place in a sort of continuity limbo between the Superman of 1938-1986 and the new Superman created after DC's self-destructive miniseries Crisis on Infinite Earths,writer Alan Moore conveys the sadness of these editorial decisions in the emotional heft of his story.
(Ironically, Superman's co-creator, Jerry Siegel, had been writing violently adult comics in the back of Eclispe's Destroyer Duck a few years beforehand, making one wonder what a Siegel-penned last Superman story could have been like; Siegel was the first writer editor Julie Schwartz had approached, but legal issues kept that assignment from happening.)For all the story's audaciousness, Moore gives the work a fitting, happy ending.
It's a great story, we see Lois (Lane) Elliot giving an interview about Superman for the Daily Planet's Superman Memorial Edition.
Batman doesn't have clean thoughts of hasn't had clean thoughts in the past about Wonder Woman and her costume.These stories all feature moments where Superman couldn't save the day, not without help from his friends and allies.
It's great to see one of DC's strongest heroes, needing help from the likes of Robin.It's a great piece of comic book history, the farewell of the Silver Age Superman.
So farewell Silver Age Superman, read you later.
Which means it contains not only the "final" Superman story from the Silver Age (prior to the 1980s reboot), but it also contain all of Alan Moore's other Superman stories, one involving the Swamp Thing, the other involving the villain Mongol and the worst birthday present ever, a plant that seeps into your body and makes you live out your greatest fantasy.I don't want to review each story individually, but I will say as a group, they're a strange and satisfying read.
More and more, I find myself picking up Superman stories that are fascinated with death, and two are included here--though both have happy outcomes.
Hablar de Superman es hablar del mito, el principio de todas las cosas, de la referencia universal, del personaje que es de todos y de nadie, del origen de la cultura de masas, de la evolución de nuestra historia.
Parece imposible imaginar alguien que no conozca Superman -quizás a Pyonyang?
-, pero a veces cuesta encontrar a alguien que haya leído Superman.
No ya con regularidad, sino alguien que lo haya leído alguna vez.
Three Superman stories written by Alan Moore that capture the spirit of the Man of Tomorrow just prior to DC's first Reboot of the character.
The other two stories, written slightly before this finale, were also a great mix of Moore's superhero sensibilities along with a great examination of what motivates Superman to be who he is (or was).
These stories were to me a great mix of the present darker more realistic take on superheroes that we see today combined with the sense of wonder that I got reading the early adventures of Superman and Superboy as a kid and that seems to be lacking in comic books today.
The innocent world of Superman, his villains, his allies, and his love is turned upside down when his enemies suddenly take a more vicious turn.
It's an odd experience to see how the people of this more idyllic Metropolis just can't process the idea of villains going on genuinely destructive rampages or killing innocents.The add-on stories are also good, but felt more like "hey, let's put some more Alan Moore stuff in here" choices than being genuinely connected to the theme of the core story arc.
"This is an imaginary story (which may never happen, but then again may) about a perfect man who came from the sky and did only good."I've never been a fan of Superman, maybe it's because I'm a Batman's fan, maybe it's because I find him too pretentious or too martyr but I don't like him.
So I gave this comic a chance, because I'm a massive Alan Moore fan, and now I understand why some people likes Superman, I still don't like him but i understand.
"Away in the big city, people still sometimes glance up hopefully from the sidewalks, glimpsing a distant speck in the sky...
This is an imaginary story...

