https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232431.Dancer_from_the_Dance
I first read "Dancer From The Dance" long, long ago, in my days at New Haven.
Someone at the old Atticus Books recommended it as "the gay Gatsby".
It is that, very much so: a novel of doomed romanticism, memory and all its traps, and dreams of new identity.
"Dancer" calls up a world of melancholy dreams, of losing oneself in night and hopeless romances.
Even if you were never on the gay scene, you could identify with Holleran's hero and his hopes for romance.
Very much recommended, even it's not your world Holleran is writing about.
Andrew Holleran's groundbreaking 1978 novel is a lyrical, funny and elegiac book about a certain segment of gay life in mid-to-late 70s New York City.The modern reader will appreciate the glimpse into post-Stonewall, pre-AIDS urban gay life, with its discos, tea dances and all-night parties. Some behaviour and attitudes have obviously changed, but the restless pursuit of the newest fashion or fad and the yearning after beauty and romance feels universal.Holleran's characters – some outrageously heightened, satirized, mythopoetic creatures – are memorable. And his literary prose (with nods to everyone from Proust to Henry James) is sensual and seductive.
I'd heard about this book forever and finally got around to reading it.
I waffled between liking it and appreciating it as I was reading it.
But I felt like I was reading the same twenty pages over and over and over again.
It's indulgent but the book is about indulgence.
It's frustating but the book is about frustration.
A bold way to tell about an experience by giving you that experience on a different level.
I'm wondering how different and how much the same things are in that life today.
This book made a big impression on me.
This was a great look at the 70s gay community. It felt a little like a trip down memory lane and since I wasn't there, I didn't get all the inside comments.
Am I allowed to dislike this book?
first off--it's been forever since i've read a novel.
second--it took me no time at all to understand that this was "literature" and not some trashy recounting of promiscuous sex, drugs, and fire island.
third--i was blown away with this book.
i couldn't help thinking after reading it.
the characters were exquisitely developed, and the prose was surprisingly fluid.
the characters, and goings-on of the book was raw.
i found myself identifying with aspects of all the characters and scenes.
after reading it i realized that i need to read it once more to understand further nuances that i may have missed.
A narcissist meets a solipsist and thus is born a gay classic? Ugh. There were moments when a lustful impulse is rendered convincingly, but I really couldn't care very much for these characters. Maybe it's a generational thing. Found the "friendship" between Malone and Sutherland unlikely -- unless the financial bond between them had been more fleshed out. Not a book I'd recommend to a young gay man looking for literary solace/guidance/whatever-it-is-we-read-for.
It would be a part that involved sex or drugs and he would edit around it so he wouldn't get fired, but with a nod and wink that still let you know which naughty bits were being PG-13'd out so we'd still understand.He'd finish his pared down tale of debauchery and just-barely-appropriate-for-high-school-ears adventures, and when we were looking at him like the shit he just told us was the kind of stupid normally reserved for the Darwin Awards, he'd shrug and say, "It was the 70s, man." As though there were no other way to explain why or how any of it happened.
Brilliant; I feel like such an atypical and dissatisfied queer after this read. Truly a stunning look into queer life.
It was a continuing bond and that is what Malone and Sutherland were for years, starting that fall: two friends who danced with one another.There were things I appreciated about this book.
Find a flaw, I can't find a flaw.""That is Malone," said Sutherland in his lowest, most dramatic voice, "and his only flaw is that he is still searching for love, when it should be perfectly clear to us all by now that there is no Mister Right, or Mister Wrong, for that matter.
I like the time and place of the book but I wanted more heart.
"Yes, that is all that's left when love has gone.
Dancing."  There are books I don't care if I like it or not.
But there are books that I hope a lot to love when I pick them up.
Dancer from the Dance is one of those books I wanted desperately to love.
It is why I didn't give up, even when I started to struggle through the story.
I'm glad I finished it, but I have to admit- unfortunately- that I didn't completely get it.
And it is why I have to say that "one of the most important works of gay l
But there are books that I hope a lot to love when I pick them up.
Dancer from the Dance is one of those books I wanted desperately to love.
I never regarded Malone as a romantic person, though I kept telling about it continuously.I don't have to like characters to enjoy a book, but I have to feel WITH them and feel FOR them.
I like the very beginning and the very end of the book, actually I enjoyed rather the exchange of letters, a parallel story to a Malone's story, so to say, that framed the main story-line that is set in between, and I appreciate the superb writing, but...Knowing that it was published in the 70s, on the eve of the AIDS epidemic gave me goose bumps feeling...
I remember when I first picked up this book in Santa Barbara, turned the first page I couldn't put it down.
The feeling was one of a different kind of sexual awakening, like I had somehow missed a whole culture of exciting men.
I know that I became obsessed with books about gay men thereafter.
But now, for the life of me I can't remember a thing about the book except it was beautiful, electrifying, luminous and poetic.
A beautiful & sad book all about Corinthinians 13:11.
"When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things."In this case, the childish things are whoring it up in post-Stonewall, pre-AIDS NYC, a fun time if ever there was one.
The idolatry of youth & beauty leave little option for the adult man: either become the old guy at the club, leave Manhattan, or go out in a blaze of glory & the characters of this book do all three.
Sad, aimless literature. Okay. So: Dancer from the Dance, a fairly well known LGBT novel with some rather pompous praise. What’s it really like?The story follows the life of Malone: a man from an upper-class background, initially not realising he’s gay, but eventually coming to accept it. Thereafter, he becomes incredibly enamoured with a Puerto Rican man; however, their relationship sours and they become enemies.Malone then becomes extremely promiscous, sleeping with everyone—and forming a cur
There isn’t even a clear conflict (although there are various bullshit metaphorical ones).Then again, some ‘literary’ novels are interesting, even though they have little going on plot-wise.And yes, the characters are very well developed.
I am quite happy being gay, and have no remorse or self-pity over this.This novel seems quite pessimistic, and without hope.
If you really are serious about writing this kind of thing—and not merely telling a good story—then you have to understand that human life must have hope as well as sadness in order to feel real.
Armistead Maupin's TALES OF THE CITY series became a recent contender in the PBS poll of America's top books.
While Maupin's tales are ingratiating and quietly witty, the standalone novel Dancer from the Dance has passion and eroticism without being excessively over-the-top in sexual description.
While in some respect a period piece of pre-AIDS sexual liberation, Malone's journey is one echoed by many gay men, here and around the world.
In many ways it is a period piece, but then love and lust never go out of style.

Fewer than 20 pages in we are told what kind of story this will be: it's about "doomed queens," about "why life is sad," and "what people do for love—gay or not."Like The Great Gatsby, the narrator is an unnamed person observing the beautiful and larger-than-life Malone.
Malone is taken under the wing of Sutherland, a seasoned "queen" who watches over him and cares for him as a best friend.
At first, Malone romanticizes the idea of falling in love, but soon becomes jaded, realizing that this is nothing more than a hopeful delusion, and resigning himself to a life of shallow hedonism.Life for Malone and Sutherland is one big party, filled with sex and drugs and dancing.
The book is set in the 1970s of NYC and Fire Island, during an era of political, sexual, drug-taking (and dancing) decadence, and is infused with a tragic, nostalgic melancholy for an era that feels like it is evaporating even as it unfolds, which again perfectly captures the fleeting quality of youth in the city, and particularly a youth spent chasing self-sacrificial dreams that we know have no long-term payoff (at least in terms of financial security/mainstream "acceptance").
A time before AIDS started wiping people out at an alarming rate.
A time before people realized maybe they shouldn't take so many drugs etc.
A time when the world was okay as long as you were dancing and having a great time living in the moment.
This really is a great book.
I will miss Sutherland and Malone and all of the other people that pass in and out of the chapters of this book.
Holleran's debut is a study in ambivalence; but, then, all good satires are.
With luxuriant, effortless prose Holleran takes us through the world of the gay circuit circa the 1970s.
Here is a world built upon the pretense of fleeting beauty, saturnine lovers and the mass delusion that dancing possesses a redemptive power, and peopled by those legendary archetypes: The sanguine queen, here embodied by the droll Sutherland, and the hopeless romantic turned rentboy, Malone.
This is no scathing critique, however.
Holleran is at his best when balancing the tension somewhere between shame and celebration.
This was a hard one for me. One hand I appreciated the novel as a window into pre-AIDS, post Stonewall, urban gay culture, but on the other hand I was repelled by the constant, casual racism and antisemitism spewing from the main characters. To me, it didn't read as a commentary on racism within within the gay community, and was so widespread throughout the novel that its hard for me to imagine the author didn't believe the hateful things his characters were saying.
Another gay lit. classic that shouldn't be passed up.
When I first read Dancer from the Dance probably more than 35 years ago, I read it with fear and sadness. I first read the book in the early 1980’s when thousands of gay men began to die and people began to suspect that the “gay disease” could be spread through having sex. Though the book was written before knowledge of HIV / AIDS and its murderous rampage through the gay community, I knew that those dancers from the dance might now all be dead. Like other gay men, I understood that to explore a
It is a coming of age novel for an individual as well as a community.Many years after my first reading of Holleran’s book and being open and out in every area of my life and refusing to ever hide again, I knew it was time to revisit this important novel to see if I now had a different view of it.The novel is set in New York City of the 1970s when the gay community still largely came together in the dark of night in the secrecy of pulsing discotheques without windows to the outside world and where men could live authentically, fully, openly, energetically, and without fear or shame.
Stephen-my friend- relates strongly to it for the references to dancing, which apparently he really got into after we parted company, and I see from the reviews that others also pick up on that link.
Someone who for many years appears to work as a full time prostitute( only in our fantasies do prostitute's customers become sexual fantasy figures- the reality is quite different{ not "hung", not handsome, not great looking , with God like physiques.
Tha main character Malone leaves his cookie-cutter middle upper class WASPish life to become a full time denizen in New York's gay world.
It is there that he teams up with Sutherland, the necessary Queen who helps him on his futile, yet honorable, journey to seek love.
After running the entire circuit and back Sutherland hooks Malone up with a man he doesn't love but is very rich.
In the end Malone escapes once again form his former life once again, but this time he plunges into anonymity.
Anthony Malone remains the beautiful gay man who is glamorous and tragic.
I don't really know how to rate this novel: parts of me found it difficult to read and connect to, other parts found it poetic and compelling.
The novel is candid and humorous, but all in all left me feeling like there is so much more to life than the characters explored.
This is not a story I can't really identify with on an emotional level, oddly enough much in the same way a stereotypical heterosexual romance can leave me quite cold.
This is why I gave it 4 stars, because it made me reflect and gain perspective on a way of life I couldn't really live.
A book I've read several times, although not lately.
At one point in my life, when I was supposed to be studying for an exam, I would re-read this book instead.
Now, I'm scared to read it again, in case it no longer lives up to what I remember.When I first purchased this book, at what was then called a "bookstore" (yes, I am dating myself), the young female clerk was kind of flirty, and then when she took a look at the book I was buying, became all flustered and awkward.
And no longer friendly.
Such were the times.
Classic gay novel from 1978. Ranks with me as one of the all time great gay-themed novels. The beautiful Malone and his frenzied search for love in the gay world, pre AIDS, from midnight ventures into the parks of Greenwich Village, to drug-infested discos and promiscuous gay bathhouses and onto Fire Island orgies in this superbly written and realized first novel by the talented Andrew Holleran.Proud owner of a William Morrow first edition.
Reading the end of this book while listening to Jeff Buckely's "I Know It's Over" was a really bad idea.
The greatest drug of all, my dear, was not one of those pills in so many colors that you took over the years, was not the opium, the hash you smoked in houses at the beach, or the speed or smack you shot up in Sutherland's apartment, no, it wasn’t any of these. It was the city, darling, it was the city, the city itself. And do you see why I had to leave? As Santayana said, dear, artists are unhappy because they are not interested in happiness; they live for beauty. God, was that steaming, loath
turns out i just really love reading plotless aestheticist novels on New York City with overblown, dramatic characters and resplendent writing.
it looks at the idea of love, the romantic sort, with the backdrop of the both sentimental and gritty city of New York: love is lust.
it goes through the sort of people he meets, and how his ideas on love, lust, beauty, and life in general shifted.
the dancers in the top storey of the factory cannot be parted from their dance, just as lovers cannot be parted from love.
