https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71299.Asterix_in_Britain
Anticlimax who is a British cousin of Asterix is delegated with this mission, which results in Asterix & Obelix taking a journey to Britain and an incredible adventure of infinite proportions.The clichéd British "upper class" diction allotted to the British characters in the book along with some of the cheeky references that are incorporated into the comic frames like the frequent consumption of ‘hot water with milk’, warm beer and boiled meat, enjoying weekends, are incredibly entertaining and adds nicely to the British setting of the theme.
Asterix in Britain is one of the good ones, and more fun for me in that we didn't have it when I was a kid. So I'm not able to read it in my sleep yet.Asterix's first cousin once-removed from England (Anticlimax) is part of a tribe of Britons holding out against the Roman invaders (sound familiar?) He sneaks out of the siege and comes to Armorica and the little Gaulish village seeking help. Getafix brews a barrel of magic potion, and Asterix and Obelix accompany Anticlimax on the trip back to h
So I'm not able to read it in my sleep yet.Asterix's first cousin once-removed from England (Anticlimax) is part of a tribe of Britons holding out against the Roman invaders (sound familiar?) He sneaks out of the siege and comes to Armorica and the little Gaulish village seeking help.
Getafix brews a barrel of magic potion, and Asterix and Obelix accompany Anticlimax on the trip back to his village.On the trip, Obelix gets drunk on warm beer (bitter) and locked in the Tower of London, which he promptly breaks out of.
Asterix: What can I offer you, Anticlimax? A boar? Goat's Milk? Beer?Anticlimax: A cup of hot water with a spot of milk, please.Obelix: ???? I laughed throughout while reading this one! It was fun to watch Obelix getting irritated by the British culture and values. The best part was when he gets drunk.And how can I forget the Rugby match. :D :D
Anticlimax is Asterix's cousin "once removed" (a nomenclature which confuses Obelix no end) from England, who is in Gaul to seek Asterix's help for his village, which is still holding out against Caesar.
So Obelix and Asterix cross the channel with a barrel of magic potion - but the end is surprisingly different from what one would expect.Throughout the book, English manners, customs, food (boar in mint sauce!) and drink (warm beer!) exasperate the Gauls - but what really floors them is how these stiff collars are transformed into a bunch of bloodthirsty savages once inside a rugby stadium!
Anyone for tea, warm beer & Mint sauce with any type of boiled meat, What!
Sarjan ehdottomaan parhaimmistoon kuuluvan albumin voisi kai kiteyttää näihin kuviin ja näihin tunnelmiin:- Hyvänen aika! Hämmentävä spektaakkeli. - Se on, eikö olekin.Loppuun vielä pieni anekdootti: Goscinny ja Uderzo saivat tietävästi lukijapalautetta aina kun gallialaiset sankarimme seikkailivat eri puolilla maailmaa; milloin tekijät eivät olleet tavoittaneet jonkin alueen kansanluonnetta oikein, milloin yksityiskohdat eivät olleet kohdallaan tai niin edespäin. Englannista kirjeitä ei kuulemma koskaan tullut, eli ehkäpä "Asterix Britanniassa" osui joko täydellisesti maaliinsa, tai sitten britit suhtautuivat tähänkin asiaan tyynen rauhallisesti.
I think I have discovered why England hasn't won a World Cup or Euro Cup in a while. Hot water time and weekends.I loved the Rugby match! GO Obelix!
Erst muss er Idefix daheim lassen, dann darf er keine Römer verhauen, dann schämt er sich wegen seinem Ausfall durch gallischen Wein, schließlich darf er nicht beim Kalebassenspiel zwischen Camulodunum und Durovernum mitspielen, und dann noch das ganze gekochte Schweinefleisch mit Minzsoße...
Wer sich wundert - tatsächlich gab es vor Römern, Angelsachsen und Normannen eine lebendige keltische Kultur auf den Inseln.
Allerdings weiß ich nicht, ob die britischen Kelten wirklich Steintafeln mit "Foyer doux foyer" im Wohnzimmer hatten, oder in den Kneipen Darts spielten, wenn sie ihr abgestandenes Cervisia tranken.
Αυτοί οι Γαλάτες! Αιώνες μετά μας δίνουν χαρά και γέλιο. Κλασικό κόμικς που διαβάζεται διαχρονικά από μικρούς και μεγάλους
Asterix in Britain (Asterix, #8), René Goscinny
Asterix of Gaul is a famous comic book character, most notable to me because his adventures are available in Latin.
The story is set during the Roman Empire, so it makes sense to be in Latin.Asterix is resident of a small Gaullish village.
The druid priest of the Village, Getafix, brews a potion that grants superhuman strength.
A long series of comics chronicle their adventures in Gaul (France) and abroad.In this story, Asterix's first cousin, once removed, is named Anticlimax.
If I run across more there I will probably pick them up for some light-hearted fun.
I read this one at different periods of my life, and it only got better every time (in fact, I think this book's due for a re-read!). As an 8-year old kid I liked it because the characters were engaging, the story was fun, and the art was very colourful. Though admittedly some of the jokes/cultural references were over my head - if I noticed them at all. The last edition I read was actually the German translation  Asterix bei den Briten , as I was learning German at the time and reading this boo
I read this one at different periods of my life, and it only got better every time (in fact, I think this book's due for a re-read!).
As an 8-year old kid I liked it because the characters were engaging, the story was fun, and the art was very colourful.
Though admittedly some of the jokes/cultural references were over my head - if I noticed them at all.
The last edition I read was actually the German translation 
, as I was learning German at the time and reading this book, with which I was already familiar, helped me learn.
Five stars, of course!!Die spinnen, die Römer! :-)
“Asterix in Britain” was one of the earliest Asterix books I read, but even though I remember it with fondness, until I re-read it again, I had forgotten all the details except for the “tea” part of the story.
The plot is about a sole village holding out against the Roman invaders, except that it is in Britain and without a magic potion.
Asterix and Obelix go back with him to Britain carrying a barrel of magic potion.The story worked for me in the way that “Asterix and the Banquet” did not.
A much shorter story than I remember it being, but excellent nevertheless (and the animated film adaptation of it was brilliant too). One just wonders what the jokes and puns are like in other languages as it feels like many of them must get lost in translation. I wonder how much of it was actually by Goscinny, and how much was the invention and initiative of the translators. I probably recognise puns now which completely bypassed me as a child. Great fun - and so accurate in its depiction of the English!
The best ever Asterix book. Action doesn't stop. Loads of Romans around and the drunken scenes are some of the best from any of the albums. Must for Asterix fans. Also check out the 1986 Animated Adaptation of the Book, It Is Hilarious!
Finally - the early history of rugby union explained!
Capolavoro, anche solo per la parodia della lingua e della cultura inglese. E poi, la trovata dell’acqua calda consumata alle cinque… Tutte queste invenzioni, poi, sorrette da una storia coi fiocchi.
These names will never cease to make me laugh!
Certainly one of the best of the whole Asterix Series.
Astérix é um dos melhores protagonistas de banda desenhada de sempre e este episódio das suas aventuras, que se pass na minha terra, é o meu favorito.
"Asterix's Greatest Adventure," according to the cover of my edition, and there are times I am inclined to agree, though there are also times at which I am inclined to give the nod to Asterix and Cleopatra or one of the other albums (e.g. Asterix at the Olympic Games, another favourite of mine).
Goscinny and Uderzo's satire of the British stiff upper lip is hilarious, and Uderzo's art is at or near the peak of his abilities, featuring clear character designs, brilliant visual humour, and some very interesting variations in design and layout, given the original publication parameters.

One of my favourites and had great fun re-living it with my five year old.
This is the eighth Asterix adventure and this time Asterix is in Britain.At the book's beginning Caesar invades Britain.
"All Britain was occupied...
one village still holds out against the invaders." Sound familiar?
Anyway they can't hold out for much longer so Anticlimax, a second cousin, once removed of Asterix, goes in search of the famous magic potion.
A barrel is made and Asterix and Obelix escort Anticlimax and the barrel back across Britain with the Romans hot on their trail.
Along the way there is a lot of fun and jokes, although maybe too much stereotyping of certain things, tea for example, but all-in-all another great Asterix story.
Ils sont fous ces romains!... ¡Por primera vez tengo la oportunidad de decir que he podido leer uno de los comics de Asterix en francés! Hace años que vengo siguiendo las aventuras de Asterix y Ovelix, pero siempre leyendolas en traducciones al español. "Asterix chez les bretons" es una de mis historias favoritas: tiene humor y acción. Ahora que pude leerlo en su idioma original, me parece muy interesante el recurso lingüistico para hacer que el francés parezca inglés :).
Ever wonder what the British used to drink during break-times and meals before tea was discovered?All the habits and traditions were there, it only needed our Heros to provide the final ingredient for the perfect cuppa....
my favorite Asterix
This is brilliant but you have to read it in French or you'll miss British-isms, like "je dis" or "c'est un morceau de chance."
rosado> walkies!
