https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425516.The_Silver_Devil
When I read a friend's review for this one, it sounded like just my type of story.
I love reading stories about the type of guys that you'd run screaming from in real life.
It's a hang-up of mine, I guess.Set in the 1600's, 'The Silver Devil' tells the story of the Duke of Cambria, aka Domenico.
Watching how easily he dismisses his closest acquaintances with little regard, she fears the day that he will grow tired of her.Domenico was definitely a tough character to like.
Domenico was a tough one to break.Overall, I really enjoyed this historical romance.
SEE BELOW how you can read on Kindle for FREE!⭐⭐⭐⭐1/2! The Silver Devil (stand-alone). In dangerous times, The Duke of Cambria is intrigued & distracted by his new play-thing Felicia!   “Sprawled catlike in the silver chair, he was watching me; I could feel his eyes resting on my bare shoulders as actual as a touch.”   The Silver Devil (stand-alone) takes place in Italy, year 1605. Orphan Felicia Guardi is living a Cinderella-life existence at the mercy of her half-bother and his evil wife w
In dangerous times, The Duke of Cambria is intrigued & distracted by his new play-thing Felicia!
“Sprawled catlike in the silver chair, he was watching me; I could feel his eyes resting on my bare shoulders as actual as a touch.”
Orphan Felicia Guardi is living a Cinderella-life existence at the mercy of her half-bother and his evil wife when she catches the eye the Duke of Cambria, Demonico Giordano della Raffaelle, Lord of Marches aka the Silver Devil.
With silver-blond hair, obsidian eyes and uncanny beauty Demonico, The Duke of Cambria bewitches men and woman alike and is known for his sinister seduction, toying with his conquests until he gets bored.
And when it comes to Felicia, the girl he bought for thirty pieces of silver, the one to whom he asserts, "It is your vocation to love me above all others”:So, like all the others – the men and women, boyhood friends, and stepmothers alike – Felicia falls in love with His Grace, The Duke of Cabria.The Silver Devil, by Teresa Denys, is not a comfortable read.
And when they continue to linger long after the story comes to an end, you know, with undue certainty, that despite the discomfort; The Silver Devil was an uncomfortably good read.For information about my rating system, see my profile page.A SHOUT OUT TO Fre06:  I can’t tell you how grateful I am for the recommendation.
and the genuine horror of her story is her unexplainable love for the worst, most evil hero i've come across since i don't know when.
one that describes terrible smells of rot and death as a constant, castles as places of nightmare, appealing rascally types who turn around and laughingly engage in gang rape, sybaritic aristocrats who cover their faces in dead-white make-up as if they are miming the undead, irrational rulers who view their people as slaves to be used and killed, unending misogyny, devious deviants who love incest and pederasty, the works.
She's a master of creating a beautiful blend of people and place and plots to make an intriguing, surreal "romance."(The spoiler tag isn't for a spoiler, but contains my dream cast so the page doesn't go a mile long.)(view spoiler)[All the passion, murder, torture, intrigue and war in snazzy Renaissance fashions had me thinking in operatic terms right off, so here's my dream cast.....Besides having the obvious asset to play Domenico (and being my image of the glorious bastard before I even picked up the book), baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky has the type of voice that would make you gladly shed your virtue, inhibitions, and moral compass.Sticking with the Russians, I'd cast Anna Netrebko as Felicia.
He sat on his horse unmoving, a somber black figure in startling contrast to the vivid colors about him, the sun dazzling on his white gold hair. Unlike the duke and his bastard, there was no laughter in his face, and his eyes were not searching the housefronts for diversion-instead, he was staring intently straight up at my window.  Poor Felicia Guardi. Not bad enough that she is a reviled bastard toiling away, Cinderella-like, at the inn of her portly brother and his shrewish wife in the 15t
Next thing you know, her brother sells her for thirty pieces of silver and she is swept to the Duke's castle, a corrupt, rotten, debauched hellmouth where she is caught in the intrigues of political and bed rivals alike.Felicia's first person narrative is so emotionally poignant, realistic and strong that you cannot help, as the reader, to feel as she feels, sees as she sees, tremble as she trembles.
I knew that love would not turn the silver devil into an angel.
I’ve been thinking about it though, and I’m convinced the main difference is a plot strategy where the hero and the villain are pretty much the same character.
Felicia struck me as weak and wimpy for falling for him, throwing away her moral integrity simply because she loves him.
So while Felicia may not admit it to herself, I think she’s attracted to the power as much as she is to Domenico.
The people of Cabria would be much better off with a different ruler, but the Silver Devil has uncanny luck.
At one point, I thought Felicia was The Duke's half sister!
Felicia drinks those cordials from her brother and wakes up in a strange place and soon finds out that she is to be the Duke's whore.
Good show!"So shortly after Felicia has a "forced consent" loss of her virginity...[I'm going to parlay this into a mini-discussion about that term.
But I digress...]  Shortly after she is stripped of her virginity, she comes to love the Duke.
(view spoiler)[Wow, you're going to love this book!
It seemed strange for me to read a historical romance book in first person.
Not that I'm saying people want to witness rap (*edit* oops, I meant rape, that was a typo but kind of funny...no slam on rap/hip-hop intended) in all of its disturbing glory, but if we the audience are to find a reason as to why Felicia would fall for her Domenico, you'd think that we'd be given more detail about the growing intimacy (especially given the freedoms that come with telling a story in first person narrative).
Hell...I'd never managed to read through the pdf version of a 300+ novel within three or so days!Thoughts after reading:Just...What The Hell Had I Just Read!?(Link: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art...)That...that's just mind-blowing in a crazy manner!It's a damn difficult book to rate, on one hand I'm intrigued by the outstanding, sensual writing, the vivid sense of dread expressed through said writing, the fine details and the roller coaster ride which is the main story.
This wasn't a romance.
I can deal with an anti-hero as long as he finds some sort of redemption or learns to look at the world a bit differently.
But I do expect some sort of emotional awakening.
This guy wasn't capable of that.
Plus - and this may offend some people - I just can't get into a man who has sex with other men.
I don't believe I'm being anti-gay/bi-sexual.
As far as I'm concerned people can sleep with whoever they want.
However, for me to find a man sexually attractive/romantic hero material he needs to be straight with a capital S.
Domenico is truly one of the nastiest male leads you will ever read he is an anti hero who kills at whim and is so cold he is also bi sexual something I would normally find off putting but as I read the book I became so engrossed that I almost forgot about it.
If you like a book where a completely unredeemable male lead falls in love with a common woman to the point of obsession you will love this book as much as I did if I could I would rate this a 10 stars!!
OHHHHH GUESS WHAT THIS STAND UP GUY DOES WHEN HE THINKS THE HEROINE IS SLEEPING WITH SOMEONE ELSE...HE NOT ONLY KILLS THE POOR INNOCENT, SWEET MAN BUT TORTURES HIM, TEARS HIM APART via TORTURE TABLE.....Yup, soooooo true love quality there....For some reason, I decided to stick it through and keep reading, thinking it would get better.
But, also maybe because she hasn't known kindness so she takes this sorry excuse of a man as a kind-ish man..??..This book was just awful and I honestly wish I could get back my time that I spent reading this horrendous "story." I put "story" in parenthesis because...it didn't feel at all like a full blown story with character growth, rising action, plot, or just conflict (besides him going all psycho!!!) but like their relationship was at a standstill at 59%!!!!!!!!Yup, I'm done.
Mr. Silver Devil himself.
Yet as the story evolves you understand she is the victim of circumstances being illiterate, imprisoned within her own home, beaten and abused and eventually sold for silver pieces.
Consequently she confuses lust for love and finds herself enslaved physically and mentally to the hero.
The story is hauntingly filled with lies, treachery and treason which adds another dimension, excitement and complexity to the story.This book isn't for the faint of heart (which I usually am), but it is surprisingly good and has the power to suck you right in.
When I started reading the book, and got to the first "love scene" (oh, who am I kidding, he capital R -raped her) I thought I was going to be in trouble.
She hasn't had the benefit of reading a couple of hundred historical romances like I have, so how would she know that everything he did was because he actually loved her?And Domenico -- oh, what a bastard.
Nowadays I like a little more navel-gazing in my romances.Would I read Denys' other book?
It incorporates all that makes some readers shriek & rant about women's rights & toss the book aside in favor of bland Regency romances with their cuddlebug woobie-rakes.
But as I said in my review of Stormfire, this oh-so-notorious book has much to be appreciated by a more open-minded (or less squeamish) reader.Denys' style is lyrical & lush -- more dense than the average BR, but not wordy per se.
:D)Furthermore, The Silver Devil is narrated first-person by Felicia alone.
Like Felicia, the reader is forced to rely on context & dialogue to gain their footing.Bottom line: it's not a book for stupid people.
This is a fabulous historical study based on real life accounts of various members of the Borgia's and de Medici's melded into one very interesting character.
The H, and I use that lightly, is so overwhelmingly a man of his times that I can practically breathe the wax scented air.
A powerful man could, would and did use the act of penetration to enforce his will or his dominance.
TD did not have to use her imagination to have Domenico do these things, they are all actual things real Italian rulers did.
It tells the story of Felicia Guardi, a commoner beauty who comes to the attention of Domenico della Raffaelle, the new Duke of Cabria, the one they call the “Silver Devil.” When her mother died, Felicia learned from her brother that she was bastard born.
Without her knowing it, Domenico buys Felicia from her half brother who drugs her so she can be taken to the duke’s palace.
Felicia is a wonderful heroine, and though he was often wicked, Domenico was a very worthy alpha male hero.
Re-read 8/2013Oh, I know this old bodice-ripper sets off a plethora of hot-buttons for many readers.
Fortunately - not for me.All of those hot-button issues aside, this is a very well-written, cult-classic, book.
This actually makes things more challenging for the reader - to pick up on the nuances that are Domenico, to look past his 'devilishness,' and see his true motives and feelings for her.In real life, Domenico would be a dangerous sociopath, but in Romancelandia, he is a romantic, over-the-top, jealous, possessive hero of the first degree.Truly one of my favorite books, despite it's increasingly non-politically correct nature.
The things we do for the sake of challenges (+_+)Despite of my continuous unholy amusement towards our man, the Duke from Hell, and irreverence regarding the supposed brutalities and horrors, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. There I award 4 stars! for I laughed my entire way through this unintentionally funny book.
TWISTED and DEPRAVED! This book was awesome in a messed up kind of way. It features the ultimate anti-hero and the unfortunate girl who loves him (despite the fact that he's a sociopath). She loves him in all of his homicidal glory.
4.5 This is not for the faint hearted. I usually refrain from books with despicable and vile heroes/heroines that have no redeeming qualities (because it’s frustrating). But I’m really up for something that has brilliantly written and executed characters and plot. That’s why when I started reading this book I just could not put it down. It was an uncomfortable yet a fantastic read. It’s just well written!!
Felicia, the illiterate and illegitimate tavern maid, became entirely dependent on Domenico and was in nearly all respects a fairly pitiful woman.
If anybody stands in his way, or gives the slightest offense, the option of murder is totally on the table.A casting review has already been done, but of course I also imagined the fabulous Dmitri Hvorostovsky as Domenico, because how could you not if you know of this guy?
Felicia is totally in the grip of Stockholm Syndome and there ain't no comin' out of it...Just one of Domenico's more tender PDA momentsTeresa Denys is an amazing writer.
Call me crazy, and I probably am, but I absolutely loved this medivial romance between a king and his courtesan.
At 15 years old I found it in the back of my mother's closet, read it through to the last page only to reopen it and read it through again.
The entire story is told from the courteson's point of view and she is really kept in the dark in regards to her lover's real feelings and yet she's willing to risk her life just to remain close to him.
Sappy, I know, but in my teen years I couldn't get enough of this story.
Ok I am brand new to this site. I read this because I tend to like the darker more tortured heros. This fit the bill. Denys writes like noone I have ever read. I plan to read Flesh and the Devil but I fear no one will live up to the heart pounding dysfunction of Domenico. If you want something different, this is it. Now I want more of this. I don't care a thing about being politically correct with my romance. Make it exciting. Some day soon I will re-write this book the review it deserves.
Over-the-top craptastic crap lacking any romance and fun.A homicidal, rapist hero whom I'm betting Joffrey Baratheon* was modeled after?
Domenico's characterization may be a historically accurate portrayal of the nobility (oh, such an ironic term) living in early seventeenth-century Italy, but I don't find such tyrannical behavior appealing in a romantic hero.
Just because the author—via Felicia and Domenico's past lovers—said so doesn't make it true.
Not that sexual skill excuses bad behavior, but that's all that Felicia had to go by at this point in time.
Domenico hadn't really shown her any tenderness or true nobility of character yet, if at all; only his cruel, petulant, and petty side.
But despite some gothic elements, it's definitely a historical romance.This book has a reputation for being vile, and it is.
The one time she takes action (dressing like a boy to follow the hero and his men to war), you get the feeling it's more for plot convenience (the book is written in first person) rather than any agency on her part.
This book isn't graphic, but I winced through the descriptions of the heroine's rapes; they're emotionally devastating.
(I'm not going to address the topic of rape in these vintage--and modern--bodice rippers, but it's a fascinating and complicated subject that I don't entirely understand.)Despite this, I couldn't stop reading.

Vile.
Of all books I have read, this is in strong contention for having the most vile plot and characters.I got recommended this because of some similarities to a series I loved (Lymond).
And the setting sounded interesting, a sort of historical romance set on renaissance (fantasy version) Italy.
Now the cover and blurb warn you this is a old-school boddice ripper (of the old old kind, not the wider derogatory term applied to generic romance novels, clothing really got ripped in anger).
And it is totally unlikeable, over-the-top without being fun, hateful gender roles, without any humour or self-consciousness from the author to make it camp.
Horrible horrible book.
This book is bizarre but so well written that I gave it 5-stars. This is a very dark book. The hero was not loveable... he was crazy and evil and the heroine was weak and helpless. I didn't feel warm and fuzzy after reading it but I'm glad I did.
