https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53007.Querelle_of_Brest
As a straight man, I sure do have a love for Gay literature and Gay authors. Genet is just an once-in-a-life-time genius. "Querelle" is a magnificent book that is so iconic that I can't imagine anyone on this planet passing this book up. And again, i have a love for the twilight world that basically slips out of the pages in this book. Everything is sexualized to the max, and it's a work of great inner-world beauty.
Συγκλονιστικό, σπαρακτικό, συνταρακτικό.Η ένταση του κειμένου με έπιασε εντελώς απροετοίμαστη. Εισχώρησε υπόγεια και ξέσπασε με δάκρυα.. ασταμάτητα.Εντός ημερών θα αναφερθώ και πιο αναλυτικά στο έργο.
The luscious gold of Genet’s prose, a kind of perverse combination of Flaubert and Baudelaire, is truly original and his descriptive powers are extraordinary;“For several seconds of the eyes of the murderer marveled at the astounding stillness of the forest, where the vault of hanging creepers gilded by a mysterious sun in a dim yet sparkling air filtered through from immense far-distant blue skies, and where the depths were illuminated by the infinitely variables lights and shades of all walking dreams.”Genet’s imagination is a rough, ghoulish nightmare, dominated by men, muscular and yet strangely feminine, Genet’s dangerous yet decorous heroes intoxicate the reader with their bawdy and bellicose behavior-his descriptions of the sexual relations and intercourse between men would seem banal in any other novel, but here they somehow become beautiful, kind of like if a romance novelist took a heady dose of crack and dealt exclusively in the world of homosexual sailors and police officers-there is something intensely innocent in the sexual relations between the male characters as they approach each other with the attitude of a young virgin.
I read Querelle after finishing Secret Historian: The Life and Times of Samuel Steward (a must read), in which Steward tries for years to get his translation of it published in English, to no avail.
Genet's book originally appeared in French in the 40's and Steward was simply too far ahead of his time in thinking that the subject matter would be accepted in the US.
Steward, and several of his literary companions, shared a reverence for Genet and Querelle in particular….one going so far as to travel to Brest to hunt down every nook and cranny mentioned in the book that was still standing and accessible.
I don't give out 5 stars lightly.the English translation of Querelle (originally French) is easily one of the best translations I've ever read.
Querelle is super thick, rich, compelling, and dark.
The filthy world of sailors and brothels lends itself to one of the queerest (here i meant "strangest" until I realized that it fully embodies both meanings of the word) things I've ever read.
I feel bad on my 5 star ratings because I feel that nothing I could ever say would portend what lies between the covers of these books.
But as of yet, its in the best 10 books I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
It's been about 2 decades since I read Querelle, but the scenes and poetic style marked me like a tattooed sailor.Warning: the scenes are sexually and violently graphic.
Yet, when the murderous main character describes how he felt when he killed...
Well, it's mind-boggling that Genet could describe it so sensitively and beautifully.
If you loved the Todd Haynes' film, Poison, and if you enjoy exploring the minds of the damaged and desperate, Querelle is the book for you.
(BTW, Fassbinder made this into a film , but its tone is nothing like the book.
If you must see the film, read the book first.
En Querelle no hay arrepentimiento por nada.
La pro-yección hacia una vida (y una literatura, una ideología) que se hace cargo de los deseos del cuerpo.
En un párrafo de Genet están cristalizados miles de deseos y toqueteos amorosos, de miradas furtivas en calles, subtes, trenes, y colectivos.Texto sagrado-texto manifiesto: allí donde el que se reconoce como discípulo de Genet entiende todo el trabajo que tiene por delante.
La liberación del cuerpo es acompañada por la expansión de los límites de la percepción artística.
O para decirlo en criollo: a través del arte volvemos con más intensidad a lo que nos apasiona en la vida.
I'm resistant to giving in to this is who I really am.(I'm sure I look absolutely crazy to anyone who catches me having these conversations in my head.) I take in the psychotic humanly observations and will use them in my frame of reference for things that I think about a lot and pretend I don't want to run back into his cell when I'm afraid I'll never fit into the belonging world.
I think you'd have to be able to see gaggles of sexuality, or maybe a whole stampede.Something I'm very interested in is what I've seen like collectively decided as "losing" is unrequited love.
A murderous sailor rolls in from the sea on the good ship Vengeur.
Misty, murky, evasive, manipulative, erotic, and brutal, the prose is a pretty fair mirror of the protagonist--a mouthful: cruelly beautiful and fantastically well-endowed.My main reservation about the book is that some of the passages of dialogue are so painful that I actually groaned.
It was not a good groan either, like the kind of exclamation of joy a man might easily struggle to muffle when stuffed to his eyeballs with love.
More than the multiple murders in the book, it seemed wrong.
He’s already distanced somewhat by being interpreted through the love-struck eyes of his superior officer on the boat where he’s sometimes employed as an ordinary sailor, and though the timidly infatuated officer is transparently Genet himself it’s an improvement on the totally self-centred delinquent youth in Miracle of the Rose.
This is not an invitation for the rest of us to love him, far less to forgive or even ‘understand’, but it’s a strong persuasion to understand ourselves, or the terrible plight of the individual human spirit and therefore to see a little more clearly why Genet in some esoteric quarters became elevated to sainthood and – almost – to join the ranking of Dostoyevsky.
I'd certainly recommend this book to anyone interested in Genet or 20th century French literature, but I will admit it left me wanting in places.
To write a literary whodunit or fiction that desires for nothing more than to be true crime, I would look to Hawksmoor, the 1985 novel by the British writer Peter Ackroyd.
While we may not want Genet to be P.D. James, at times the crime aspects could have been played for more interest than they were.
There's a lot that's wonderful about this book but it's also trucated to me in places, and almost seems rushed sometimes.
QUERELLE is a book that manages to be poetic, stylish, sinister, sensitive, intense, delirious, beautiful, erotic, rich, complex, grotesque, strange, and very violent all at the same time.
Unlike CRASH, however, the damaged characters in QUERELLE live in a very real, hateful world while the characters in CRASH found a way continue to escape from reality and achieve a level of sexual intensity that overcame all the pain, guilt, and self-hatred that they were all feeling, even when their obsessions began to take priority over their personal lives.
With CRASH, you explored the world of characters who have fashioned their own kingdom based collectively on their, some might call, destructive kink.

I was led to Querelle via Flowers and Thief's Journal. Querelle is a complex narrative of antisocial characters who have as many motives. It has a style peculiar to Genet, but I wasn't so keen on this book as the latter two. In the end I considered Querelle so antisocial that he would stop at nothing to amuse his desire for self preservation; a sad predicament that raises neither sympathy nor identification. This young man is evil and unlovable and thereby stands alone in the world with his own perversions.
It might have been my favorite Genet book if I could just get the cast of the Fassbinder movie out of mind while reading it. Don't see the movie first, it's a piece of shit, a worthwhile piece of shit (Franco Nero as Lt. Seblon was (the only) great casting decision), but don't ruin this otherwise pretty amazing book by seeing it first.
Κείμενο που κρατά τον αναγνώστη μεσα του. Τον κάνει ένα με τους ήρωες και τις εναλλαγές στη ροή της πλοκής. Πολύ καλά στημένοι χαρακτήρες, τόσο όσο και χωρίς υπερβολές που θα κατέστρεφαν την αίσθηση της ιστορίας. Ίσως ένα απ τα καλύτερα που έχω διαβάσει. Κείμενο που μας μαθαίνει πολλά για το στήσιμο και την απόδοση μιας ιστορίας.
Κείμενο που κρατά τον αναγνώστη μεσα του. Τον κάνει ένα με τους ήρωες και τις εναλλαγές στη ροή της πλοκής. Πολύ καλά στημένοι χαρακτήρες, τόσο όσο και χωρίς υπερβολές που θα κατέστρεφαν την αίσθηση της ιστορίας. Ίσως ένα απ´ τα καλύτερα που έχω διαβάσει. Κείμενο που μας μαθαίνει πολλά για το στήσιμο και την απόδοση μιας ιστορίας.
Hmm... not one of Genet's best... Definitely not a good place to appreciate his work. I decided to read this after watching that strange Fassbinder film adaptation, which I thought was interesting until the totally anticlimactic ending. The novel has a similarly anticlimactic end. I don't know why this is is. Maybe Genet just ran out of paper.
Gay French maritime murder-porn! Pretty good read, too.
historical note, he was making fun of the closeted and muched adored french author pierre loti and his book  my friend yves.
Jean Genet's book was ahead of its time. Gays lived a very different life as compared to today. Monsieur Genet is a masterful writer and storyteller. I was intrigued and didn't want the book to end.
Genet è una bestia. Scrive un libro bellissimo, ed assieme osceno. Lento, e violento. Inattuale nel profondo. Ma è un bel tuffo nell'agire umano.
i'll quote directly from page 255. "this book goes on for too many pages, and it bores us."
I was reading this book on the train, and the lady seated next to me suddenly glared at me in indignant self-righteousness and hissed 'that's DISGUSTING.'
Far and away Genet's most accessible novel. Raw, lusty, dangerous and beautiful.
Where Raskolnikov had been a student translating German philosophical tracts who becomes obsessed with the idea of the Great Man of History theory, who wants to become such, Querelle has no such illusions and murders and wishes to convert others to his criminal ways as acts of communion with a divinity in opposition to the giving, loving God of Christianity.
now that I think about it perhaps that's what the meaning of that last page is: she's been mostly a tool for comparing the two brothers.
Probably for the best I didn't read it at such an impressionable age, but as a college student I can appreciate it much better, I think.
Yesterday I interrupted my reading of this to watch Genet’s short film Chant D’amour.
Since yesterday my feelings about Genet the writer have improved a little — the second half of the book is definitely more compelling than the first.
But I haven’t changed my mind on the point that Querelle of Brest suffers from considerable infelicities, which Chant d’Amour manages to avoid.
Too often you feel as if Genet is preaching, telling you what you are supposed to think (unconventional though his lessons may try to be).
Ho comprato una bella edizione de Il Saggiatore a Bologna all’inizio di quest’anno, ma ho avuto modo di leggere Querelle soltanto adesso, a giugno.
Iniziato a Berlino e finito in Sardegna, tra una nuotata e un’escursione nella natura, questo pilastro della letteratura omoerotica mi ha tenuto compagnia, colpito per la crudezza e insieme meravigliato.
Le atmosfere rarefatte (impossibile non visualizzare il capolavoro di Fassbinder), la nebbia palpabile, la caratterizzazione di quei personaggi quasi mitologici: una sessualizzazione che accarezza ideali estetici del passato mescolata ad una delicatezza estrema del sentimento.
Genet non tramonta.
A dense maelstrom of the crude and the metaphysical. I mean crude in the most noble sense, the transparent ugliness and brutality of the criminal in each of us. Genet's prose is maniacal in its passion and its self-awareness. In many ways this is three texts in one: Seblon's journal; the story itself; and Genet's commentary and musings on both. There is a great story here, and labyrinthine characters, but the style was too jarring for me, and the prose desultory. The translation seemed a bit stiff, too. Still, I will be reading The Thief's Journal, eventually.
As a fan of the plays of Jean Genet, I started this novel with great enthusiasm however, after a point I found out that I was reading the same things again and again and it was too hard to follow the book for me. Maybe this was because I wasn't reading the book from its original language and I know that some books lose a lot when they are translated, but I should anyway confess that I didn't find the novel inspiring when I compare it with the writer's theatre plays.
Querelle is an arch monster (as in camp, rather than great) who fucks, wanks and murders his way across the landscape whilst Genet seems unable to decide if he's writing an exercise in self-justification, a narrative or just good old-fashioned one-handed fiction.
If he'd been writing 20 years later, it might have ended up in the pages of Forum, the self-consciously didactic middle class jazz mag that used to employ the services of Alastair Campbell among others.
Genet is at his best when describing shagging (but what have we said about authors who fancy their subject?).
