https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/681941.The_Moral_Animal
In all of evolutionary science, there's a lot of temptation to endorse a just-so-story that happens to fit all your current data (or worse, ignore some of the data as noise).
But this is Human evolution we are talking about and thus it becomes even more important that we A) get the story right B) understand how general trends apply to individual cases and C) don't draw think that science can dictate morality.Surprisingly, the book is best on point C, showing how science can inform some moral debates but not settle them.
The majority of the book was well argued, well documented, and likely right.
Quotes:p 36 - ...while there are various reasons why it could make Darwinian sense for a woman to mate with more than one man (maybe the first man was infertile, for example) there comes a time when having more sex just isn't worth the trouble.
Each new partner offers a very real chance to get more genes into the next generation - a much more valuable prospect, in the Darwinian calculus, than a nap or a meal.
So each child, from her (genetic) point of view, is an extremely precious gene machine.
It makes Darwinian sense, then, for a woman to be selective about the man who is going to help her build each gene machine.
Like Dawkins' book, The Moral Animal talks much about altruism and how it can be understood in the new Darwinian light (based on kin selection and reciprocal altruism).
The book is surely disturbing and Wright doesn't shy away from taking ideas to their logical conclusions.
Our brains are battlefields between our nature and our nurture (unlike what "anti-genetic determinists" think about Evolutionary Psychology).What I liked less in this book were the parts about Utilitarianism and how we can overcome our genetic tendencies.
I agree with many Utilitarian ideas which I read elsewhere, but I was somehow disappointed here after the amazing explanations of Evolutionary Psychology.
On the road from Gethsemane to Calvary I lost my way. For some obscure reason when I read the last page of this book and put it down, the above quote from one of the Lewis television series sprang to mind. I had to recheck the internet to ensure that my memory was in fact correct.I lost my way and my mission in fact with this book The Moral Animal on page 128/464 and my positive thoughts gradually diminished as I began the slippery downward slide to the last page. I thought it was excellently w
This book promised me everything I wanted in a book on evolution and Darwin has interested and intrigued me for years, leading me onto my current fascination with genetics.This was meant to show me the new science of evolutionary psychology but this didn’t prove to be the case.It is a study of men and women and relationships.
My other problem is that I’ve already read a really good biography on Darwin and other excellent books on evolution, and I was hoping for something new here.
This is another case of the book looking the part, promising marvellous things, having excellent reviews and proving to be disappointing.
He doesn't find your cat story interesting, and he won't call in the morning. He has gazillions of sperm and you have 400 eggs. Harry was right when he told Sally men and women can't be friends. Any guy who tells you otherwise is just trying to sleep with you. They're all trying to sleep with you, all the time. Your co-workers, your friends, the traffic cop, your high school math teacher, your cousins, all of them. all the time. Even the gay ones. And that's why they invented fire, the wheel, carrots, sport cars, and football. To get some.
Some people would say God. That assumes there is some absolute idea of virtue and morals handed to us from the almighty.
The author illustrates, not just through human examples but other mammals, how certain moral behaviors have developed to insure survival, which in the sense of natural selection means to reproduce and leave lot of descendents.
While Wright clearly states natural selection is only interested in survival not morality, he also realizes that if we understand the reason we do what we do, the more we can use this information for our own betterment.
What Robert Wright sets out to do with The Moral Animal is to take Darwin's life and oeuvre (primarily The Origin of Species), frame them with two other important contemporary writings (John Stuart Mill's Utilitarianism and Samuel Smiles' Self-Help), and use that lens to execute a thorough analysis and discussion of Darwinism and evolution, how human civilizations evolved as a consequence of "reciprocal altruism", and capsulize all of this as the basis for what Wright calls evolutionary psychology.
Wright's choice of style is an interesting one and reminds me vaguely of Hofstadter's Gödel, Escher, Bach: meticulous and technical scientific discussions of biology, genetics, and evolution are interspersed with nearly whimsical narratives that detail the life and times of Charles Darwin.
Additionally, the tone of the book (or train of thought of the writer) seemed to change a lot, which made for kind of awkward transitions when reading multiple sections in one sitting.On a side note, I did find the anecdotes about Darwin's life and relationships pretty interesting, and a funny choice for use as examples of evolution in social behavior.Even though I didn't particularly like much of this book, I hope people that do read this can read it with a grain of salt and a little thought: it can make for some good discussions if you read it with someone else.
I refuse to respect it; I think it's working to excuse us for the things we should be able to rise above.
Wright does fight the absolutists and say this science is not an excuse for how much we hurt each other, but if he is so enlightened, can't he see that he is at the same time validating a science that is increasingly and more aggresively being used as fuel for the anti-anti-rape movement?
His one- and two-sentence scoldings about how we should rise above his "science's" findings fall short of undoing the damage for readers who will use this book for evil.
I'm less than half way through this and I still can't find out what the author's focus is.
He started out with a description of some of the different ideas about evolutionary psychology.
Then he shifted to the biography of Darwin.
Then to early childhood development.
Now he is drawing conclusions, loosely based on Darwin's personal history and some of his letters, that I seriously question.I hope that this book gets better and a little more focused.-Joe-I'm 3/4 of the way through and the author does not have a focus.
I'll not finish this book.
The title and description are very misleading.-Joe-
(This goes for you too, nihilists.) One of Wright's main assertions, boiled way down, is that everything we believe in our deepest heart of hearts, the moral code we claim to live by and whatever we're dead certain is our Core Truth, is just a trick of natural selection; a device to further evolution's aims.
And he's really damned convincing.Whether you buy Wright's arguments or not, I submit it's a worthy exercise to try standing outside our own biases; to submit our beliefs to the skeptical scrutiny we apply to others' opposing beliefs; to question our behaviors and motives as witheringly as we would our most outrageous opponent's.
If critics of evolutionary psychology (ev psych) agreed to read just one book of my choosing, this certainly would be the one.
It's a masterpiece of science writing that deserves the exuberant gratitude of the academic community and the general public alike.Being an outspoken liberal radical and an apt pupil of social constructivist theories of psychology at one of the most far-left colleges in America, I myself was extremely skeptical of ev psych around the time I read this book.
Dear Evolutionary Psychology, You are bullshit. Most sciences evolve from get-your-hands-dirty research-discovery-more-research cycles, but evo-psych evolved to meet the need of the media to have a constant influx of stories justifying sexism through "science." So suck it. You are rejected.
Because of its technical nature, at times it was hard getting through it all, but anyone with an interest in psychology would absolutely be fascinated by this book. I actually believe that EVERYONE should read this book, only because it gives you incredible insights as to who we are, why we act the way we do, and how we can make better decisions for our actions in the future.
Probably my favorite quote from this book comes from the chapter in which the author discusses whether or not we are truly moral animals.
He concludes that we are almost:We are potentially moral animals -- which is more than any other animal can say -- but we aren't naturally moral animals.
To be moral animals, we must realize how thoroughly we aren't.The Moral Animal is a very thought-provoking and interesting book.
I feel much enlightened and educated about the psychology of the human animal and I have a deeper respect and appreciation for "the reluctant Mr. Darwin."
That is, practitioners take a look at features or patterns of human behavior today, then ponder about why that kind of activity might have been advantageous in "the evolutionary environment," back when we were out there gathering and scavenging and occasionally trying to take down one of our fellow large mammals.
A tricky business, this evolutionary psychology.The Human ConditionRobert Wright's 1994 synopsis of what was at the time still a relatively new academic discipline is beautifully written, balancing provocative arguments with careful reasoning and considerable erudition.
The last book I read in 2016 was "This Explains Everything: Deep, Beautiful, and Elegant Theories of How the World Works" where leading thinkers share their favourite deep and elegant theory.
As someone rightly pointed out, the beauty and elegance is when one theory explains a lot of diverse phenomena, and is almost a gift that keeps on giving.Robert Wright uses Darwin's theory to explain exactly what the book's title says - why we are the way we are, using Darwin's own life to illustrate several facets of classic human behaviour.
In fact, I think all kinds of moral philosophy and psychology are fine.
There are science journalists, like Mr. Wright, who are satisfied and contented with presenting the results of their research and not going beyond the confines of the conclusions reached by the scientists for whom they speak.
And then, in a rather different vein, there are writers who themselves are only comfortable if they are able to present a message in tune with their own personal values and aspirations, regardless of whether those values or aspirations are consistent with what is actually the case.Mr. Wright appears to me to be one of the latter.
a man's justification for bad behaviour
Middle piece is a weird meta-analysis of Darwin through his own theory of natural selection. And the author kinda wanders around a lot which might leave the reader wondering where the focus might be. But there are several great parts to be read again. Like the further explnation of Dawkins' Selfish Gene and other interesting conclusions from evolutionary psychology. I just wish there was more focus on this aspect and less detours.
This book would have been a 5-star work if Wright hadn’t insisted on incorporating the half-Darwin-biography model. It might sound cute on paper to analyze Darwin’s life through the lens of evolutionary psychology, but in practice it’s distracting, cumbersome and time consuming. The book could have been half as long and many times better if the reader wasn’t forced to learn about the color of Darwin’s socks. Still, the good parts of the text are fantastic.
Not quite what I expected but in a way so much more.I am interested in the genetic underpinnings of our moral codes.
I know that there are evolutionary reasons that we think killing is wrong, that we believe it's best to treat others as we'd like to be treated.
In this book Wright explains "evolutionary psychology" in an interesting way.
To be more specific, that would be why it is in the best interests of our bloodlines to behave in certain ways during the dawn of humankind.
And I believe that certain behaviors are considered "wrong" in all cultures.
Not just what we do and the forms of our social organizations have a root in the genes that were successful, but even elements as intangible and essential to our being as our perception of reality.The argument is compelling in parts--in the early chapters I was swept up in the writing, devouring each page--but the writing bogs down in points that left me with a sense of the density of the 500-page book.
This section, though necessary, was overly long and I didn't get a sense that the author was fully convinced, perhaps spending too much time with his own sense of environmental and genetic determinism to believe that society at large could move beyond being a moral animal to being just moral.Conclusion: Moderately Recommended.
We’ve learned much in the last 20 years, and Wright is directly responsible for much of that...
So read it as you would The Origin of Species: for historical perspective, for the pleasure of flashing back to a time when this knowledge was new.If you’re new to this material, proceed with caution.
Wright fails to draw a clear distinction between pre- and post-agricultural societies, forgetting that the latter is a recent but drastic aberration from our evolutionary roots.
Understandably so, but still, there is much newer knowledge out there: you might want to start with newer material such as the ones in the first paragraph.
I liked this take on the selfish gene, namely the author's presentation of the new Darwinian paradigm and his speculations on human (im)morality through tidbits from Darwin's biography.
What made me opt for 4 stars were the following two remarks:«No doctrine heightens one's consciousness of hidden selfishness more acutely than the new Darwinian paradigm.
Now, in the light of the new paradigm, we can see how hard this is, how right Samuel Smiles was to say that the good life is a battle against "moral ignorance, selfishness, and vice"; these are indeed the enemies, and they are tenacious by design.»
Unlike most evolutionary psychology I've seen since (I automatically dread/dismiss anything with that label on it) this book carefully considers piles and piles of data and still often comes to no conclusion as it would often be an irresponsible jump to do so.
Too often eolutionary psych feels like a scientific excuse for people to be awful to each other: "We were made that way!" Or, "Look, animals do it!" But that disturbing logic was thankfully missing from this book.
Oh, and in addition to all these thoughts and puzzles to consider, there's an irreverent biography of Darwin tucked into the book.
~A PERFECT EXCUSE~There are many things a human being should already raise above, thinking of how we pride ourselves on our many achievements.
I guess, I am not too kin of evolutionary psychology, which has a perfect excuse for just about any amoral behavior, as well as a vaguely noble explanation for all the positive traits.
The spiritual being in me inclines to believe, that we have moral standards because a part of us, that tiny, yet undiscovered by the science particle of the SOUL, is connected by the source of knowledge and infinity far greater than we can ever imagine?
"The Moral Animal" explores questions of morality and ethics through the lens of evolutionary biology.
If you enjoy thinking about evolution, the forces shaping our minds, feelings and instincts, and haven't read much about this topic before then you might enjoy it.
However, if you've comfortable with the subtleties of the term "selfish" in "The Selfish Gene" you will find the first half repetitive and the second half overly hand-wavy, vague and unconvincing.
Final recommendation: Go ahead if you'd like a quick intro to evolution and its effects on our minds.
Expect to be tickled by arguments, but ultimately unconvinced of anything.
Book deserves a strong 4.5 or 5, though for me much was repetition-- because I have already read 5 books on Darwin and his theory of evolution -- including Origin of Species, his journals ,studies of the Galapagos finches, and also a massive two volume tome about his life in work.
What really sets this book apart is that the author uses Darwin's life -- his bio to explain Evolutionary Psychology to explain why we do what we do.
I found the chapters about religion most interesting as the author contrasts Jesus and Buddha and sages in general and analyzes their teachings based on Evolutionary Psychology.
Brilliant synthesis of the works of many fine scholars on the impact of evolutionary psychology on human morality, written by a fine science writer. The story of the evolution of morality alternates with stories about Darwin's moral approach to life, thanks to his genetic heritage. Beautifully written and accessible to non scientists. Well worth reading.
