https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7402948-wide-is-the-gate
This book tells the story of Lanny’s involvement in the Spanish Civil War, often referred to as the first battle of WWII, where Hitler and Mussolini sympathizers, as well as agents, abound.
Sinclair’s style is just as seductive as ever—I can read him for hours on end, which is a good thing since these Lanny Budd books are really big.
I even lowered my Challenge because I plan to read them this year (1 Lanny Budd = 2 of most others).Since I started this series with the Pulitzer Prize winner, “Dragon’s Teeth”, not knowing I’d get hopelessly hooked, I thought about going back now to pick up the first two.
US, French, British private backing of Fascists Hitler and Mussolini. US sourcing Hitler with arms. Mussolini taking Abyssinia. Liberal Governments helpless due to conservatives in cabinet with thier financial interests under attack from a growing socialist culture. Fascists overthrowing the socialist governments in Spain with German guns. The French and Brits stand and watch and plead civil war. There is only one thing worse than fascism, and that is communism. This was the motto of Europe in the 1930's. Outrageous. Who stands to gain when an honest man makes a bargain with thieves?
This book covers the period of 1934-1937 and introduces Lanny as a secret double agent fighting the Nazi’s as a supporter of the resistance movement in Germany.Lanny is living primarily in England with his wife of almost five years, Irma Barnes, the 23 million dollar heiress.
Leading politician believe the threat of the Bolsheviks and the Red Menace poses a greater threat to European stability, aka, the ruling classes, than do the Nazi’s in Germany, and the Fascist in Italy and Spain.Lanny involves himself in a double agent role by helping a new friend, one who will be us through the remaining books, Monck.
Although written around 80 years ago, its amazing how the politics and world affairs of that time so closely resemble what’s happening in our world now. Sinclair very clearly and in simple language is able to contrast the politics of the right and left/conservatives and liberals. In the politicians and leaders of those days we see our leaders of today. The Lanny Budd series is a great series of historical fiction, as relevant now as it was when written.
The fourth Lanny Budd book satisfiesThe characterizations are not profound, but the world of pre-WWII Europe is vividly conveyed. The ties between the corporate world and the fascists are particularly informative and cast some light on current politics.
Another Great Book In A Spectacular SeriesThe Lanny Budd series continues to not only give me a great history lesson, but does it in such an intense way that you can't put the book down. I can't wait until I start the next book in the series, and plan to read them all.
Wide is the Gate was for me a bit of a come down after the excellent Dragon's Teeth. It continues Lanny Budd's life story in a turbulent time, but without as much suspense as the previous book. Still it is a good story. It certainly inspired me to learn a lot more about the Spanish civil war.I was a bit put off by Sinclair's rather heavy-handed use of Lanny as a mouthpiece for Sinclair's own political views, and I tended to fast-forward through those sections.3.5 stars rounded up.
Well worth looking beyond some of the flat characters—and it takes some effort to do this esp with the female ones. Great historical detail, superb pacing, and lucid descriptions, bring this period and key historical players to life and provide a social and political context that is too often overlooked. Sinclair has a superior gift in his use of facts and political and social detail and consequences to capture and sustain interest. It’s a long read but very worthwhile if you’re a 20th century history buff.
Fiction
