https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13496.A_Game_of_Thrones
I could write a dissertation on Dany and everything that went wrong with her story - but I don't have that kind of time.For those of you not familiar with this most epic of George R.R. Martin's characterization and plot failures, here is a summary:(oh and spoilers, but I honestly can't be bothered to tag it.)When we first meet her, Dany is thirteen years ond and about to be sold (effectively) into marriage with Khal Drogo, a warlord of the Dothraki people, by her abusive and not-a-little-bit-crazy brother, Viserys.
Hell, if all Martin wanted was grim and gritty antiheroes in an amoral world, he didn't have to reject the staples of fantasy, he could have gone to its roots: Howard, Leiber, and Anderson.Like many authors aiming for realism, he forgets 'truth is stranger than fiction'.
Instead of innovating new, radical elements, he merely removes familiar staples--and any style defined by lack is going to end up feeling thin.Yet, despite trying inject the book with history and realism, he does not reject the melodramatic characterization of his fantasy forefathers, as evidenced by his brooding bastard antihero protagonist (with pet albino wolf).
It offers nothing new to the genre, and does nothing original with what it has.Narrated in turns by Eddard (Ned) Stark, Lord of Winterfell; his wife Lady Catelyn; his bastard son Jon Snow; his very young daughters Sansa and Arya; his middle son Bran; Tyrion Lannister, a dwarf and brother to the Queen; and young Daenerys Targaryen, last of the line of dragon kings and exiled to the land beyond the narrow sea, the book is divided into neat chapters headed by the name of one or the other, so you know exactly whose point-of-view you're going to get and where you are in the plot.
it doesn't) and i would have to tell them (not without some schadenfreude-glee) "nope - it has just been moved back another year!!" it gave me a solid sense of "there but for the grace..." like when you see a very young junkie and you congratulate yourself for dodging that particular bullet.despite what i kept hearing about how awesome the books were, i just filed it away in the mental RA folder of "stuff nerds like" and figured one day i would read them, you know - for research, but not before they were all out - i wasn't going to get sucked into the trap of so many before me - the waiting game of disappointment and having to reread the older books again and again to keep track of who was even alive at this point.
Reader Logic:I HATE this book.I HATE it so much I had to get a new hardback copy to read so I could underline all the parts I HATE about it so much and post them on Goodreads.I HATE it with such a passion I also bought copies for all my friends and family, also in new hardback editions, so they could HATE it along with me.When the TV series came on I was so fuming with rage I watched the entire season twice and bought six copies of the DVD, because I could not believe how much I could HATE something.I had spent so much time discussing how much I HATE this, with all my friends, who HATE it too and who all bought copies, I decided to get a George RR Martin tattoo on my buttock to show how strong my HATRED for his work is.
For many people, indeed for a decent chunk of a whole generation of fantasy authors, George RR Martin's A Game of Thrones was a step change in the genre.For me and a lot of other authors Martin's work opened our eyes to what felt like a whole different world of what fantasy writing could be, and we've run out into those new territories eager to try to copy not the style or substance, but the quality.In my youth when we entered a fantasy land we were expected to suspending our belief about magic and alternate worlds, but not only that.
First off, I'm a heavy duty fan of GRRM. I've read over a 100 different fantasy authors in my time. Took about 5 years off from the genre b/c I felt it was all getting too formulaic and cliched. So, when I came back to fantasy I read the usual: Goodkind, Jordan, etc. and then someone told me about GRRM and man, that was the kicker! Here are the reasons to choose GRRM. I've also listed the reasons not to choose him to make it fair b/c I know their are certain personalities who won't like this ser
I've also listed the reasons not to choose him to make it fair b/c I know their are certain personalities who won't like this series:WHY TO READ GRRM(1) YOU ARE TIRED OF FORMULAIC FANTASY: good lad beats the dark lord against impossible odds; boy is the epitome of good; he and all his friends never die even though they go through great dangers .
This is one of the reasons why each novel is between 700-900 pages.(10) SUPERLATIVE VARIED CHARACTERS: not the typical archetypes that we are used to in most fantasy; some are gritty; few are totally evil or good; GRRM does a great job of changing our opinions of characters as the series progress.
I tried reading this a long time ago and gave up very quickly.
I know many love it but I think from the start I knew it wasn't for me.
Looooong fantasy series never have been, for some reason.
HOWEVER, I have to confess that the TV series is such a guilty pleasure of mine.
And, even though I will never return to this series, can we all just take a minute to admit that how I spent my weekend is kinda cool...And a sneaky bonus for Torchwood fans!Just so you know, all the cool people totally close their eyes during at least one photo #truefact
عندما تلعب صراع العروش..فأنت إما تكسب، وإما تموت هذا أساس اﻷغنية ،أغنية الجليد والنار، وأنشودتها اﻷولي 'لعبة العروش' الملحميةحيث عرش الملك محاط بخيانة ومؤامرات،وبينما يلعب الحكّام لعبة عروشهم لا يدفع إلا الشرفاء الثمنوبأنشغال السادة بلعبتهم تزحف اﻷخطار مهددة عالمهم..خطر الغرباء يزحفون من أرض الجليد بالشمال، وخطرعودة التنانين ونيرانهم من الشرق..ولتبدأ أغنية الجليد والنارهو عالم كامل بناه المؤلف العبقري جورج آر آر مارتن وأبتكر له تاريخه ومعتقداته، جغرافيته وأساطيره..سادته وملوكه، والعرش الحديديسلس

Plus, it gives me chance to share this review once more and tell my personal reading journey to any followers I might have picked up since 2015.Original ReviewA Game of Thrones changed my life.
And to top it all I’m studying a degree where I get to read more wonderful authors I would never have discovered on my own.
A Game of Thrones is not the best fantasy novel that has been written nor is it my all time favourite novel or series, but, it will always be something special to me because it was the first book that turned me into a reader; thus, I'll read it once a year, every year, to honour it.

And thus I'm back to the beginning and hating and loving people all over again! And the dumbass King ruins it all by having a wicked witch for a wife, but if not then it would just be some other wickedness to get the party started. There are so many characters I love in these books and the wolves of course. And all who kill wolves can have their head on a pike!  "He must have crawled away away from the others," Jon said. "Or been driven away," their father said, looking at the sixth pup. His fur
There are so many characters I love in these books and the wolves of course.
Tyrion Lannister was sitting on the ledge above the door to the Great Hall, looking for all the world like a gargoyle.
"Is that a wolf?""A direwolf," Jon said.
"One word," Tyrion said, "and I will hit you again.""I'm going to tell Mother!" Joffery exclaimed.
And I will not like anyone again on the shows or in the books because every time I do they get killed!
So, I'm just going to pretend I can't stand them all :) I love the book and the characters.
Now, it is the nature of the internet to keep me from being completely in the dark on this one, but I think I did a pretty good job of avoiding hearing or seeing too much about it.
Comparing it to other fantasy books I have read, it is right up there or better.Yeah, but since this has been taking the world by storm it must have blown your socks off!?
Yeah, I think I will check it out.Sex and violence?
One thing that seemed to leak through the internet and my friends talking about the book was to not get too attached to a character because they will probably die.
I loved this book and its characters so much, and crave the world and narrative so much that I couldn't wait for Martin to get the newest installment out.
Martin's ability to tell a story and hook you on it, is so great that I started to look forward to these jumps to different characters.
Many stories have jeopardy but you kind of know that in the end, the main character can't die, there are more books to come.
This is quite possibly THE best first book in a fantasy series I've ever read.
Even for someone who has watched the HBO series, George R.R. Martin’s Game of Thrones is an engaging and enjoyable read!
Watching how Martin develops characters, with all their flaws, keeps the story going as much or more than the ‘game of thrones.’ If you’re looking for new information in the book; however, you’re not likely to discover much.
The last chapter was a good one, but because there are so many perspectives and everything is still in motion, (despite the deaths) you don’t feel that anything has really ended.
In fact this is true; the ending of book 1 is really just the beginning of Martin’s epic.
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: A shocking story that breaks fantasy conventions, it's seven hundred pages of realpolitik and character development.
It will improve!" And then before you know it, everyone is having everyone else's baby and murdering their mother (who is also their sister, and a schizophrenic) and traveling around on horseback setting things on fire for no apparent reason.The characterization is painfully, painfully flat.
I'm tempted to go through the text and count the number of times Jon Snow is referred to as a bastard.
No, we can't move on; here on page 470, AGAIN, Jon points out in dialogue that he is a bastard.
the only thing i feel truly compelled to say is TYRION THE DWARF IS AWESOME!
GO, TYRION, GO!the novel itself is fast-paced and fun, featuring lavish and completely enjoyable world-building, a narrative that is widescreen in scope but often intimate is scale, some nifty twists, and strong & vivid characterizations.
this is not a novel with much idiosyncratic "style" but there is a very literary feel to it nonetheless.
but made grand & epic by the range of fascinating (and overlapping) multiple perspectives.
the action scenes are sparse but very well-rendered; the magic is likewise rare but that rarity make each appearance even more fascinating.
this book was exhausting and knowing that all the other books are bigger terrifies me but the writing and world building in this book is so vivid and even though I chose favorite characters quickly, the ones that I thought less interesting still had very important story lines and every character has a distinct, well-written personality.
At this point i'm too exhausted to even consider reading the sequels; i'm giving myself a break after reading this hahaha.
Also sidenote- the audiobook is great.
You can find the entire series on audiobook on Scribd.com, which I have a promo code for ;) "WhittyNovelsOnScribd" at www.scribd.com/promo gets you two free months!!
The things we love destroy us every time.  George R.R. Martin has ruined my life! Yet, like a moth to a flame I kept coming back. I have no sense of self preservation. There is not much I could add here that hasn't already been said. I'm a woman of simple needs. My wishlist for  Santa  George R.R. Martin:(view spoiler)[ -Jon Snow survives-Arya survives-Tyrion survives-Jaime survives-Shireen survives-the remaining direwolves survive-the R+L=J theory is confirmed (hide spoiler)]I don't care who
The things we love destroy us every time.
George R.R. Martin has ruined my life!
Yet, like a moth to a flame I kept coming back.
I have no sense of self preservation.
My wishlist for  Santa  George R.R. Martin:(view spoiler)[ -Jon Snow survives-Arya survives-Tyrion survives-Jaime survives-Shireen survives-the remaining direwolves survive-the R+L=J theory is confirmed  (hide spoiler)]I don't care who will sit the Iron Throne at the end (as long as it's not Daenerys and her never ending list of names and titles).
When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies but the pack survives.
So glad I reread this! I loved it even more this time and it just reaffirmed that this is my favorite series
Of course, they survived.g) It made me angry and sad and happy and excited and horrified and disgusted and terrified.h) Basically I felt ALL OF THE THINGS.i) GO READ IT.j) Why are you still here?k) It's really really worth reading, okay?l) but the audio is the best way to attempt it if, like me, you're terrified if big thick heavy fantasy books.m) I possibly have a small crush on Jon Snow.
This book was raw, gritty, barbaric and downright crass at times...and I loved every damn minute!
On the upside, some got what they had coming and I couldn't have been happier.As much as I loved the story, if I had it to do over, I wouldn't have listened to the Audible version.
The narration was fabulous, but the story was simply too complex for me to keep up with in that format for the first book.
I had to back up the story several times because I'd get lost or have trouble remembering who somebody was.
First because I already knew what happened from the show, second because I guess you just cannot rush through this book that fast, and third because I dreaded all the horrible things and painful deaths that were going to happen.Sometimes I wish I could forget everything I knew about a book/show and just start anew.
You just never know what is going to happen next and you really fear for all the characters you love.
And I really don't know where this is all going to go and how it will end but well...Hoping for many dead Lannisters.POVs from most to least liked:Daenerys TargaryenNed StarkTyrion LannisterArya StarkJon SnowCatelyn StarkBran StarkSansa StarkFind more of my books on Instagram
A friend and I were talking about Tolkien one night after a sesh of Call of Cthulhu and he came at me with the insane standpoint that George RR Martin's breed of fantasy is superior, though indebted to, Prof.
I hope that Martin doesn't journey off to the great beyond previous to finishing the series.
But isn't quim an amazing word?Because Martin wrote for television (new Twilight Zone and Beauty and the Beast among others) the books have this nice episodic feel.
If you have any even cursory interest in the fantasy genre read these books.
HOLY HELL. I really can't review this, the story is way to complicated to even begin to do that.
Stark will soon find out that when you play the Game of Thrones, you either win or die...Okay, so it's way more complicated than that but it's hard to write a teaser for an 800+ page kitten squisher like this.I was bound and determined not to read the Song of Ice and Fire for a variety of reasons.1.
It feels way more like Pillars of the Earth than it does epic fantasy.For me, the main strengths of the Game of Thrones are the characters and GRRM's willingness to do horrible things to them.
A Guide to Reading A Game of Thrones:Step 1: Find a comfortable place with lots of lightThis is a hefty book, ladies and gentlemen.
Standing at 835 pages, it will take you more than a few hours to tear through.
Or at the very least, understand them.Warning Step 5: Do not get attached to any of the charactersI believe that line speaks for itself.Step 6 (because you will most certainly not obey step 5): Save your tears.
There are six books to goStep 7: Rinse and repeat for A Clash of Kings
It would be one thing if the sex were provocative and, well sexy, but unfortunately, the hanky panky is plain distracting-- "We break from this epic and incredibly intriguing battle with massive plot ramifications to bring you an update: A dwarf is having sex with a wench.
Most of the threads are masterfully woven and merit five star ratings, but some of the tributaries never connect to the main plot during the 800 pages of book 1.
I'm halfway through book two, and the horse-mounting Princess has yet to join the plot in any meaningful way despite the fact that several hundred pages have been devoted to her.
I should like dragons, shouldn't I?
Even in fantasy, there must be some internal logic.
So different plot threads were started, but none of those dozens of characters could be well-developed.
I liked the dwarf, the climbing (and falling) child, the wayward tomboy and, of course, the bastard.
:-) I'm not all prudish, but I didn't like the sex either.
It's all bad sex.
None of it seemed to me to advance the plot, or illuminate the characters in any way.
It felt like Martin was updating Tolkien, so, there had to be sex.
