https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3273.Moloka_i
Rachel: every moment with her feels genuine, everything about her and how she is makes sense at every stage of her life.I absolutely loved all the Hawaiian words interspersed throughout, all with their English counterparts right with them so their meaning was always apparent.And, if this historical fiction book couldn’t be more perfect, there is an author’s note at the end where the author lets the reader know a few real people a few characters were based on and lists the sources used for the research done to in general recreate the time and place.
Alan Brennert's Moloka'i is a beautifully written and moving tale of a young girl's interaction with a leprosy colony throughout her life time.
The impacts on her life as she grows older are tremendous and she loses friends and family around her fighting her own battles to survive.The story and characters will tug at your heartstrings and push you into thinking more about your own life -- and the good you have in it.
If you're able to hear someone else's plight to survive, and you can empathize with such painful scars, you will love this book.
it takes books like these to show us the error of our ways.
After reading several 2 star reviews here on Goodreads by more gifted reviewers then myself, I really can't add much more without becoming repetitive.Suffice it to say, this book had so much potential.
And although a vast majority of readers thought it met (and exceeded) those parameters, for me it fell flat.I wanted my soul to be moved while reading this.
And finally, I closed the book and was sad that what could have been an awesome story fell flat for me (expecially since I've been on a run of mediocre reads lately).This is a minority opinion - but it's mine.
The message: life isn’t over until it’s over.Separated from everything dear to her, the heroine of this book, Rachel, learns at a young age that life can still provide her with simple joys—and profound fulfillment.
Each piece flows together seamlessly, making this a novel that I would heartily recommend to others.First words: "Later, when memory was all she had to sustain her, she would come to cherish it: Old Honolulu as it was then, as it would never be again."Note: because of several graphic scenes, I would not recommend this book for a young audience.
I need to learn something with each book that I read and and I love my history to read like fiction and with Moloka'i you get all these wonderful elements and more.
I love the picture that Brennert painted of the Island, the setting and atmosphere is so real and I was able to conjure up images of the Island in my head and that’s when you know you are going to love a story.The characters in this novel are wonderful and real, I loved all of them and how they became a community who watched out and cared for each other and dealt with sadness and loss everyday and yet lead full lives for themselves.I enjoyed learning about the history of Hawaii and feel the author did a great job in researching this book.I really enjoyed this novel its historical fiction at its best.
He has a new novel coming out next year --He returns to his favorite island: "Hawaii".
I gave it as a gift to at least 4 of 5 friends ---A beautiful story!Our Goodreads woman's group has voted to read *Molokai* for next month (May: my birthday month)!I look forward to our engaging discussions!It would be 'very cool' if Alan Brennert could join us!
(I'm hoping to hear him speak next year in the Bay Area when he introduces his new book in 2013), He put a request in to 'speak' in our area!
GREAT man --who loves 'The Islands'.

This is an ambitious novel that covers many tumultuous and eventful decades of history.It should also be subtitled When Every Bad Thing Happens to One Person.You don't expect a novel about a leper colony to be the feel-good read of the year, but gee willikers...I was reminded of the moment in films when one character says "It can't get any worse than this!" and immediately it starts pouring.
(hide spoiler)] All this misery so the characters can keep smiling, shining through and plugging away.
For me personally, I'm going to put this down to an interesting and involving story, not well told.

Over and over again.It reminded me of my response to the book The Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet, as it shed light on a time and place in history in which I was very ignorant.
In the course of reading The Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet, I learned something about the Internment of Japanese Americans (in Seattle area) during WWII.
In the case of Moloka'i, I learned much about the leper colony on this small island of Hawaii in the late 19th century and early 20th century.
4.5 stars This story was an eye-opener. It deals with the topic of Leprosy also known as Hansen's disease... Frankly speaking I never thought much about Leprosy and ashamed to say neither did I know much about this disease. The only thing that came to mind when hearing the word Leprosy is distorted features.....This story is based in the late 19th century when Leprosy was a major disease and there was no known cure for the same.  This is a fictional story of a Leprosy patient based on true histo
This is a fictional story of a Leprosy patient based on true historical events.
Leprosy is not just a physical disease but it effects the patients and the people close to them mentally as well.She is torn away from her family and sent to Moloka'i- A Leper Colony.
Each event is very well interwoven with our story and we see how these big events have an impact on the Leper colony.There is also an aspect of people from different religions such as Christianity, Buddhism and the old Hawaiian ways staying together and respecting each others belief's.
"God doesn't give anyone leprosy.
He gives us, if we choose to use it, the spirit to live with leprosy, and with the imminence of death.
Because it is in our own mortality that we are most divine." Anyone who knows my families health history will know why this book spoke to me.
Rachel is just seven years old when she is taken from her family and banished to the island Moloka'i having been found to have Leprosy.
It's been awhile since I read a book that I had to set down several times just to regroup.
Moloka'i is tale of Rachel.
As was the tradition, she had to leave her family and go to a far away place called Moloka'i.
Severed from loved ones, initial days at Moloka'i were very tough for her.
But soon Rachel comes to terms with her new life at this new place.
I always love when through a book I come to know about the history and culture of a place.
Author has painted a vivid picture of Moloka'i and Hawaii, it's people, their myths, the tales and its traditions.
How people treated Leprosy and it's victims in early 1900s to how WW effected this secluded place.
20 mph.(I guess that technically means there's actually about 2353459845 miles of parking lot in LA, but whatever.)The point is, usually the perp pulls onto a crowded highway, runs into a barrier/off the shoulder/into thousands of stopped cars, and is immediately apprehended.
this car wreck is involves an incurable and deforming disease, and as such, bad thing after bad thing is going to happen, till the very, inevitable, end.That's why I didn't expect so much hope from the book.
I'm thinking, whoa, finally a smart car chase-person-running-from-the-law...
Dude, are you seriously going to run into the backyard of that house while 3 dozen helicopters are tracking the light reflecting off your bald shiny head?
From page one I knew there was little hope for this "historical fiction" book to be better than trite, but even worse was that it was BARELY educational.
I don't consider myself to be a very talented writer, but I found myself reworking every single page of this book that I read- it was like it didnt even have an editor that looked over it.
I considered it a waste of my time to have read as many pages of this book as I did, but I couldn't help it....I am an optimist :)
What a heartbreaking story-- one that always seemed to seep desolation and loneliness.
I was prepared to be emotionally invested and from one tragic event to the next I didn't full lose it until the very end.
(view spoiler)[ When Sarah opens her door and embraces Rachel- I completely bawled my eyeballs out!
(hide spoiler)].
Rachel, the narrator is one of the strongest characters I've had the pleasure to live through.
Powerful story and one that I don't think I'll likely forget.
I don't think I've read anything else regarding this disease, and I was intrigued from the beginning.
NO SPOILERS!!!I want to make it very clear; those of you who are looking for a book of historical fiction on life in Hawaii, look no further - this is your book.
This book brings the horrors of this disease to you, the reader, as a mighty punch in the stomach.
Besides learning about the disease, I learned about Hawaii.
That which happens in her life makes the reader understand how it might feel to be a leper then, there, in Hawaii, in the 1900s.
The circumstances and facts are presented so you come to understand the people who suffered the stigma of leprosy and the events of the times.
Devoted nuns and brothers selflessly cared for the children of Kalaupapa, trying to reconcile the devestation of leprosy with the idea of a loving God. Rachel went from being a frightened child to a spirited teenager to a strong adult, and I found so many events in her life emotionally moving.
With the advent of antibiotics, many cases of leprosy--now renamed Hansen's disease--were cured and some residents were allowed to leave the island.The portrayal of Rachel touched the heartstrings, and the book held my interest.
Most of the group shed a few tears as they read because the book emotionally touched us.
Brennert is a veteran screenwriter for shows like L.A. Law, and much of the dialogue here performs the sort of brisk exposition that is acceptable in a well-directed TV film but which feels rather artless and clumsy in running prose.
I'm sounding overly harsh here – the book isn't offensively bad, and people who generally enjoy this kind of novel will definitely get more enjoyment out of this one than I did.
Brennert has done his research, I'll say that, but in my case I quickly realised that I'd rather be reading the books in the bibliography than the novel he turned them into; I bailed after a hundred pages, which is pretty unusual for me.
There's nothing quite like finishing a book and knowing that you now have a favorite to add to your list of favorite reads.
While the story was as compelling a one as I've read, it was a learning novel for me, too.
Heartbreaking and uplifting, following the story of Rachel Kalama from when she was sent away to Kalaupapa at the age of 7 into adulthood, was watching a journey of strength and bravery few of us are ever called upon to muster.
I am very much looking forward to reading Brennert's Honolulu.
A new favorite book and a new favorite author is quite a catch in reading!
Queasiness ensued.And the research stood out all over the novel in little bumps.I would have taken this manuscript and shuffled all the chapters around like mad, ripping up the chronological treatment and putting the research/history where it belonged in separate sections, not suddenly popping up in the text like some sort of Resident Professor Narrator freezing the movie in the classroom to explain the context.
Or perhaps Ruth's POV could be in there from the start, actually giving the historical context...I think the problem is that the author never really committed to a novel.
This reads more like a novelization of history, and sometimes like a proposal for a movie (the author's a screenwriter).
This made sense to me because it read like a biography but I thought maybe it hadn't been deliberate, which just made it poor writing.
However the author wanted to give full respect and acknowledgement to the people whose lives this book was based upon and for this I respect the author more.It is clear he loves Hawaii.I found this book quite slow with a lot of information dumping.
I found out a lot about Hawaii and its developing relationship with America.
The cultural and historical aspects of this book were interesting.Reading the entire book I found I was more forgiving as the book follows the life of one main character through her life.
Now, after reading Moloka'i, I would say the same thing - it is a disease, after all - but I might add that this is a disease that tests the strength of the human spirit, just as it did with Rachel Kalama.After a rose-colored mark indicating leprosy appears on her skin, seven-year-old Rachel is taken from her family to a quarantined leprosy settlement on the island of Moloka'i.
To see Rachel overcome that obstacle, and to see so many others find the willpower to survive through such hardship really makes me marvel at how strong humans can be and wonder why we don't show that strength more often.Overall, a great read.
A very heart-rending book on Hawaiian leprosy sufferers of the late nineteenth century and twentieth century, told from the view point of Rachel, a hapless 6 year old who contracted the disease from her uncle and was brutally separated from her family to be incarcerated in a leprosy asylum on the island of Molokai for decades.This story highlights the courage and resilience of human beings in the wake of misery, suffering and hopelessness.I also came to encounter Father Damien vicariously and came to know of his not so public attributes .I treat leprosy (now exclusively called as Hansens diseases) on a day to day basis.
I am awed by the book, the story, the people in it (albeit figments of imagination) and the tiny mycobacteria which constantly fight to maintain the upper hand.Would recommend this book to one and all...as this is a study in tolerance, empathy and resilience.
I love it when historical fiction manages to be both informative about a time and place I knew nothing about, and emotionally crushing. Oh, okay, that may be a bit dramatic - it's not that much of a depressing book. But still, Rachel's story made me cry :(
95% | AYou should read this book if you're into: Well-written and engaging historical fiction, Hawaiian culture, following characters throughout their lifespans, the history of leprosy in Hawaii, hopefulness in impossible to imagine circumstances, resilient and inspiring main characters
This was a beautifully written book.
There were a couple of parts that were a bit slow, but they were small parts.
In general, I thought the book had a nice pace, just enough description to help you clearly see the locations, and a big dose of emotion.
This is a book where you feel a connection to the characters.
You feel that you know them and have spent time with them.
You care what happens to them.
There are some very sad parts in this book, but it never feels weighted down or overwhelming.
There is also hope, love, family, connections...
I had high hopes for this book.
Living in a Polynesia I was excited to learn more about what Hawaii was really like before it was a $1000 or less vacation, especially the aspect of the leper colony on Molokai.Unfortunately, the writing was very flat.
This would have been better if written by a Hawaiian I think.
I was also disappointed by the story of the leper colony.
I think this was a good concept and it would have done better in another's hands.
I rarely don't finish books, but I couldn't finish this one.
I don't need to reiterate how great this book is, there are many many 5 star ratings here on GR.
I'm glad I finally got around to reading this sad story but I listened to this on Audible and I disliked the narrators reading style, but it wasn't so annoying that couldn't finish the book.
I like my fiction to not sound like homework for which there will be a test later on down the track :)I agree with the 5 star ratings, it really is a unique little bit of history that I learned a lot about...
Rachel is seven years old.
She lives with her mother, father, sister and two brothers.
She lives just like any typical seven-year-old.
She is taken into custody and sent to Moloka’i, an island where lepers are quarantined, in order to keep the rest of the world safe.
Though the life she and the others on Moloka’i lead is a trying one, restricted to live with an always present, always looming death, they experience a life that is not so different from the people on the other Hawaiian Islands and on the mainland.
I dreamt of traveling to Hawaii while reading this book.
Definitely a wonderful read.
