https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447714.Finch_s_Fortune
I really liked this one in the series. A lot of it takes place in England and is mostly about Finch Whiteoak. Trouble in Renny and Alayne's marriage. Alayne has an insight that I also have felt about the family: "That was one of the striking things about the Whiteoaks. They lacked curiosity about things that did not concern themselves. Their own life, the life of the family, that was the important thing and they would have carried it with them around the world."
I like Finch. He is a musician and very sensitive. He thinks a lot and is a loving and caring man. I cant wait for him to find the right woman to fall in love with.
I like Finch. He is a musician and very sensitive. He thinks a lot and is a loving and caring man. I can´t wait for him to find the right woman to fall in love with.
FINCH'S FORTUNE is the third Jalna book and one of the best.
FINCH'S FORTUNE is a weird little story in many ways.
It deals with Finch's coming of age and his trip to England to visit an aunt.
Arthur, too, is apparently in love with Finch.
Little wonder that our hero suffers a nervous breakdown after sharing the unorthodox "honeymoon." But how will this twisted triangle play out?
There is an especially well-written section dealing with the horrific death of Renny's dog,based on an actual incident in Mazo de la Roche's life.
Every novel that I read in this series I think is the best when I've finished it. This book focuses on the results of the Whiteoak fortune being left to Finch. It chronicles Finch's trip to England which reunites him with Eden and Minny and puts Augusta back in the novel--in fact through a letter makes her a major player in the last part of the book. The other half of the plot is at Jalna chronicling Renny and Alayne's marriage along with the continued sagas of Piers and Wakefield. I'm ready to start the next book in the series.
A little more descriptive than others I have read in this series, shows its early 20th century roots more, I'd say. The Whiteoaks are up to all their old self-involved narrow view. Courts and Whiteoaks, must not all the rest of the world just be so sorry they can't be one of them? Always kind of fascinating, though.
J'avais dévoré tout Jalna quand j'étais adolescent, et si je suis incapable aujourd'hui de me souvenir de chacun des tomes qui composent cette saga gigantesque, je me souviens tout de même que j'avais pris beaucoup de plaisir à découvrir cette famille et ce domaine familial que l'on suit pendant presque un siècle.
I enjoyed re-reading this even more than the previous two volumes, perhaps because Finch was always my favourite character, or perhaps because I can appreciate the characters and the family dynamics much more than I did as a teenager when I hadn't been exposed to as many different types of people as I have at this stage in my life.I'm sure it's not for everyone, but I loved it.
Book #9 in the Jalna series. Finch, who has recently inherited Adeline's fortune, travels to England with his uncles. Much of the book is set in England, with the latter part back at Jalna. Finch has always been one of my favorite characters in this series and I enjoyed this book that focused on his life. I especially loved some of the descriptions of the English countryside in this novel!
