https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7775.Happy_Birthday_to_You_
Must-read book for kids in their birthdays!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO EVERYBODY!  And all of this beautiful zumming and humming.  And plumbing and strumming and drumming and comming…  All of it, all of it,  Al lis for you! Charming tale about the celebration of your birthday, that I am sure any kid would be thrilled and excited to read when they are indeed celebrating their own birthdays.A popular (and demanded) story to be read in kindergartens and primary schools everywhere when a lucky one is celer
Must-read book for kids in their birthdays!
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO EVERYBODY!
Charming tale about the celebration of your birthday, that I am sure any kid would be thrilled and excited to read when they are indeed celebrating their own birthdays.A popular (and demanded) story to be read in kindergartens and primary schools everywhere when a lucky one is celerating his/her birthday.Sadly, it lacks of any other narrative purpose or reading value, so it's kinda one of the weakest books of Dr. Seuss......but definitely a worthy and amusing reading for kids in their birthdays, since indeed it's a great choice for such dates in the calendar.
If I say so myself,  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME”This is a grown-ups' book in disguise.Yes, I know it looks like a children’s book.
It has excellent illustrations, it rhymes and it describes how they celebrate birthdays in a far away land.
However, it has so many hidden messages which will make any adult smile and feel happy for being born.I actually know many grown-ups who have bought this book for their grown-up friends.
And yes it is important for every person from 1 year old to 101 years old to read things like: 
Just for being YOU.Highly recommended, if it is your birthday.
The strangest version of Happy Birthday I ever heard of.Well, strange in a funny sense. I am grateful Indian schools aren't that much into Dr. Seuss.It's awkward enough standing in front when the whole class sings the traditional version. You're clueless as to whether you shall smile, clap along with them, lip-sync replacing the you with an I.Or perhaps do this. " If you'd never been born, well what would you be?You might be a fish! Or a toad in a tree!You might be a door knob! Or three baked po
The strangest version of Happy Birthday I ever heard of.Well, strange in a funny sense.
I am grateful Indian schools aren't that much into Dr. Seuss.It's awkward enough standing in front when the whole class sings the traditional version.
You're clueless as to whether you shall smile, clap along with them, lip-sync replacing the you with an I.Or perhaps do this.
why, you might be aWASN'T!A Wasn't has no fun at all.
No, she doesn't.A Wasn't just isn't.
She just isn't present.But you...
And now, isn't that pleasant!
I surely don't want to be a WASN'T !
My admiration grows towards you, Dr. Seuss.
In the memory of Dr. Seuss birthday .. Happy Birthday to You!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bz79J...
"Happy Birthday to You!" by Dr. Seuss is typical of the more mediocre Seuss books, "Wacky" and endlessly droning, tedious to read.You're going to the birthday party of a 4 year old you don't know really well, but you know he likes books and his parents are nerds.
My four year old stopped opening presents to lavish attention on several books he received and had to be prodded gently to return to what he was doing.
After present opening, he and the other baby nerds there pestered adults to read the brand new books.
This book was special to me. One I will always remember because..."If you'd never been born, well what would you be?You might be a fish! Or a toad in a tree!You might be a door knob! Or three baked potatoes!You might be a bag full of hard green tomatoes!Or worse than all that... why, you might be aWASN'T!A Wasn't has no fun at all. No, she doesn't.A Wasn't just isn't. She just isn't present.But you... you ARE YOU! And now, isn't that pleasant!" Happy Birthday! You are a you....
I got this for my girlfriend's 21st birthday and it was the best possible book to give. It was amazing fun to read together and be happy and silly. It is such a creative book, and has become a classic for me.
"Today you are you! that is truer than true! there is no one alive who is you-er than you! shout loud, i am lucky to be what i am! Thank goodness i'm not just a clam or a ham or a dusty old jar of sour gooseberry jam! I am what i am! that's a great thing to be! If i say so myself, happy birthday to me!"
I loved this book. My parents gave it to0 me for my 6th birthday.
Just gave this to a friend for his birthday - big smile and lots of laughs!
I am a person that when it comes to birthdays I love the whole spectacle of feeling like a King for a day.
I do not know why people think like that since your birthday is a reminder of who you are and all the wonderful things you've done whether big or small.This book should be classified as the book to help bring out your self-esteem and make you feel special.
I have always heard that Dr. Seuss quote but never knew from what book until now.I highly recommend reading this book regardless whether it is your birthday or not.
Fantastic book for kids! So imaginative and creative. Easy read that children will find delightful!Dr. Seuss is always brilliant! His stories and rhymes are fun and entertaining! Some of my all time favorites!! Such a great way to entertain children and get them interested in reading!
Meh! This is mostly just rampant silliness, and stretching for words that rhyme, though the following words should serve as a motto for the birthday boy or girl man or woman:"Today," laughs the Bird, "eat whatever you want.Today no one tells you you cawnt or you shawnt."
I read this to my nephew today; he’s two days old, and this is the first book he’s ever seen or heard.
If we didn't have birthdays, you wouldn't be you.If you'd never been born, well then what would you do?If you'd never been born, well then what would you be?You might be a fish! Or a toad in a tree!You might be a doorknob! Or three baked potatoes!You might be a bag full of hard green tomatoes.Or worse than all that. . . Why, you might be a WASN'T!A Wasn't has no fun at all. No, he doesn't.A Wasn't just isn't. He just isn't present.But you. . .You ARE YOU! And, now isn't that pleasant!
Oh, what could be more wonderful than a birthday??? This darling little Seuss book is perfect for any child old enough to sit through this many pages...especially when their birthday is near! Oh, the joy! (This is, however, one of the Seuss books that contains humans, and...sigh!...yes, the star of the birthday is white. But it's still a great book.)Remember...there is no one, no, NO one who's you-er than you!
It has been a family tradition since we got this book that if it's somebody's birthday, we read it. It's such a fun book and a fun tradition! Just like any other one of Dr. Seuss' books, it has a lot of rhymes, verbs, and adjectives, and it's great for elementary students!
I always have a blast reading this book to my kids, and they enjoy every syllable. One of my faves by Dr. Seuss.
Read this to my son last night for his 1st birthday. Pretty fun read! Though, admittedly, some of the twistier tongue-twisters were a bit challenging to read aloud!
from louise for luxmi's birthday.
Wonderful message to everyone in this Dr. Seuss classic! It's a must read.
I love this book so much, it's such a fine example of the serious silliness of Dr. Seuss. My Mom reads this to me every birthday, even though I'm now a 30-something!
great fun for young children. I enjoyed reading it to my grandchildren today (2&4) in honour of Graunty Barb's birthday.e
Once in a while you need a little Seuss in your blood and this was such a time. I had never heard of this book but bought it because of the title. It was alright but not one of his best.
The perfect compliment to Seuss's dark and sobering Butter Battle Book. This tongue twisting, existential, coming of age piece is fun to read for the whole family.
An adorable gift from a good friend for my birthday :)
“Today you are you! That is truer than true!There is no one alive who is you-er than you!”  Read this quote somewhere long time back. Never knew that it belongs to this book of crazy rhymes :D Here u all, send this book to someone whose birthday is coming soon & wish them in Dr. Seuss' style ;) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_LuK5...
***Rated by my son***
cute
Reading Dr. Seuss' books is soooo refreshing and good for my heart
