https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35297272-emergency-contact
She has an opinion on everything, from her own mother to the freaking lipstick she wears.I don’t think that’s necessarily a bad thing, but when you say stuff like that (see below), be prepared to have people frown at you and question whether you comprehend certain important concepts, like feminism and stereotypes.
Do as you wish – read it or don’t read it – but please do think critically about some of the offensive or questionable things the characters say.
Sigh.*Apparently, this particular passage refers to the names of beauty products for women as being offensive and ridiculous, so I admit Penny may be right this time around.
2.5*? I’m undecided
My absolute favorite feel-good romantic contemp of the year, I'm calling it now. JUST GO READ IT OK
Which makes sense, if you think about it, because so much of it feels like Mary H.K. Choi scooped out my brain and fashioned it into a tidy little package with aesthetically pleasing wrapping (have I mentioned enough how gorgeous this cover is?) and the contents of my brain are far from perfect, my dear boy.There are some things I didn’t super-love about this book.
(I chose generously, because I am overwhelmingly kind and sweet as everyone knows, and definitely not because I’m in a perpetual beggars-can’t-be-choosers situation with the entire contemporary genre.)But what I get the sense is the major issue with this book is something I didn’t see as a problem at all: the flawed characters.Sam and Penny are not easy to like.
If ever there was a book that truly embodies the term ‘don’t judge a book by its cover’ it is this one.Before I get into it, let me just tell you that the book starts off with the mc slut-shaming her mother in front of all her friends.
Finishing this book was a struggle.
I finished the whole damn book.
There is SO MUCH wrong with this book.
I am also beyond angry that a book with these many problematic things passed through the editing stage.
This book was offensive on so many levels and the characters had zero redeeming qualities.
boi this guy's hair kinda looks like Kaz Brekker's hairi've been reading too much Six of Crows omgjk
akdgajhds i'm so mad because the cover of this book is SO gorgeous.
if i was ever to marry a book cover, hands down, it's THIS ONE!!!
sadly, the pretty cover is the only good thing about this book.
what's it about??Penny Lee wants a fresh start at her University and have a decent life, away from her MILF and embarrassing!!
these two meet one day, exchange numbers and become text buddies!!i'm going to dive right into it: i really didn't like Penny's character.
one of the characters Mallory also showed some cleavage and Sam thought it was a cry for attention!!!
this book summed up in two words - triggering and problematic.
as someone who has a strictly textual friendship with another person, i relate with penny more than any other main character i have read about in quite some time.
so that aspect of the book, the forming a relationship with someone you never see, invoked a surprisingly emotional response from me.in regards to its problems, well goodness.
penny is a very judgemental person.
there is a lot of shaming, assumptions, stereotyping, sexism, and racist comments in this book.
Angst, Love, Texts, and TattoosWhen I read through the excerpt for Emergency Contact  back in February, I had a slight inkling indicating it would be well worth the wait. I was hooked, in particular, when I highlighted the opening line that really gets those of us living in the more warmer areas: When it came to perspiration, Penny had a problem. Not that she stank of BO or anything. It’s that from March to around October she was invariably damp. I do have to say, though, that upon starting the
Like, *silent-scream* having time jumps of over an hour is allowed...But I'm glad I pushed through the longish introduction (low-key because I had already prepared the header image for my review out of excitement and wasn't gonna let it go to waste) because what unfolds is a coming-of-age tale that chronicles the intersecting lives of Penny Lee and Sam Becker, both not to be trifled with.When Sam and Penny cross paths it’s less meet-cute and more a collision of unbearable awkwardness.
Uhm wow so I really fucking liked this? This book definitely isn't without its problems but the characters in this were some of the most realistic characters I’ve ever read and it honestly just really worked for me. I’m a big fan.
I totally agree, soon-to-be Princess Meghan! (Yes, I know she won't actually be called that, but I don't care.) I loved loved loved this book, and it reminded me of how good an amazing YA book (or any book for that matter) makes me feel.Penny can't wait to go to college and escape her high-maintenance mother, Celeste. Celeste seems to forget she's the mother and Penny's her daughter, and having to keep avoiding your mother's attempts to be your best friend and dress like you and talk about cute
Celeste seems to forget she's the mother and Penny's her daughter, and having to keep avoiding your mother's attempts to be your best friend and dress like you and talk about cute boys is utterly exhausting.
Emergency Contact tries to answer those questions, and does so with such memorable, amazing, quirky, awkward characters I absolutely loved.This is one of those books where the main characters talk at a sophistication level above where most people their age do, but for Sam and Penny, that absolutely worked.
There's a quirkiness to Choi's writing that is utterly endearing, much like Rowell's, and both authors have so much heart.Loved it.
My experience was not a positive one and I have a list of grievances of why I didn't like Emergency Contact.Penny Lee wants to leave her life behind her and have a somewhat fresh new start at University.
Now, you might think this is a cute love story with text messages.
Penny has a no-nonsense attitude about certain things and I figured she would be that snarky character that is fun.
I get that her life growing up wasn't peachy, and I do like characters who are snarky.
The main plot is of how Penny and Sam form a friendship through texts along with their personal lives.
Basically started this at 1pm today and finished 9 hours later hahahaThis story was fricken adorable & I loved it so much! The writing was so fun and relatable and I adored Penny and Sam. The only fault I have it that I wanted mooooooore!
This was one of my most anticipated contemporary releases of the year, and while it definitely was not without its flaws, I thought it was all in all a tremendously cute, sweet story. I get so accustomed to reading heavy contemporaries—and don’t get me wrong, this one tackles some really rough topics—but Mary managed to write it in a way that, at risk of sounding really odd by saying this, felt like a geeky, goth twist on the stereotypical “fluffy YA contemporary” novel.  Penny thought of this K
I get so accustomed to reading heavy contemporaries—and don’t get me wrong, this one tackles some really rough topics—but Mary managed to write it in a way that, at risk of sounding really odd by saying this, felt like a geeky, goth twist on the stereotypical “fluffy YA contemporary” novel.
That said, he’s a good egg through and through, even if I just spent most of the book feeling sorry for him and simultaneously kind of wanting someone to shake a little bit of sense into him.
1.5 starsI don't actually know how to put gifs in reviews, but if I did know how this would be the place in which I would just place something that was disappointment.one star for the generally healthy nature of sam and penny's relationship and a half star for jude.
she's the real mvp.otherwise, the fragile, awkward friendship/more between penny and sam was enough to keep me reading for 391 pages, but I'm saltier than a dang french fry about the missed potential here and all the borderline offensive little tidbits that were just casually thrown around.
I can see why people hated this, or found aspects of it frustrating or annoying or subtlely problematic or whatever (which is why I couldn't five star this because I didn't absolutely and faultlessly love it), but for once in my life im on the infrared side of the controversial spectrum and everything is good and positive and fucking dandy.
I liked it.I didn’t like it.I liked it.
Really didn’t!!!!
From the start I thought it was pretty stupid to be honest ...Milf mom?
The whole thing....What’s the purpose?Why did I care?And what was this book ultimately about and trying to achieve?
....Too many things in this book - from the characters, the dialogue, and their personal focus on life, just make me feel pretty sad that if our college age kids are anything like the characters in “Emergency Contact”....we have much to worry about.
Others really like this book.
I wouldn’t recommend it myself ....Thought it was kinda a waste of my time.
She wants to appear like an introverted girl but she’s actually really mean and considers herself to be above everyone else.There was no chemistry between the two, the texting wasn’t even a big part of the book.
We are told that they text a lot but we don’t actually see it, so it was impossible for me to fall for the romance.
The writing style just didn’t suit me, it was really descriptive and used many words to say something that could have been told in one short sentence.Penny and Sam don’t even meet awkward, I feel like I was lied to by the synopsis.
It’s like having a character - who was abused as a child, has a horrible relationship with the parents, is anorexic and a drug addict - saying at the end of the book, oh yeah, I should probably eat more and maybe get some therapy.
Some of the things we learned about her past throughout the book put her behavior a bit more into perspective but it doesn’t change the fact that she was not a good person.Sam, with his truckload of issues was alright and the only character I actually liked.Jude and Mallory...one was nice but kinda flat and boring and Mallory was a racist bitch whose 180 towards the end felt completely forced and unnatural.
All I wanted was a cute contemporary read …*The fact that the main character calls her own mother a MILF is making me very apprehensive.Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
this book is so beautifully awkward and eccentric i love it
and i LOVE that penny is “unlikable.” i hate how there’s this expectation that girls in books can’t mess up or sometimes fail in order to be a good main character.
i also thought the way choi handled the casual racism penny faced, even from friends, was exceptional.
that’s not what the book is about, but penny is korean, so it’s still part of her life.
and while i so appreciate books that tackle sexual assault head-on, that's not this book, so also don't go into it expecting that.
I loved this book so much and I don’t think I can properly review it...
I will apologize for what will likely be a hot mess.Penny and Sam are both great characters who were easy to root for.
I loved how we just got the surface of the secondary characters.
For me, it really helped show how Penny and Sam felt: separate and alienated.
I loved the texting and the calls and the email {OH MY GOD THE EMAIL} and that they barely ever met up in person, but both knew that the other was always always always there for them.
I'm leaving a rating off and calling this a DNF because it just wasn't for me, BUT I still want to share that it's well written, the diversity is awesome, and the characters are in college!
eventually I decided all of the petty & cynical judgement in the story (from a lot of different characters) wasn't remotely enjoyable to endure or try to adjust my mindset to, so I stopped reading.
No judgement on the book itself.I did appreciate how everyone's personality really came through, the setting felt real, and the story was easy to read!Thank you to the publisher for sending me a finished copy.
i LOVED this!!!!!
I didn't need to read anymore of it to know that I was never going to be interested.
Things that drove me crazy in Emergency Contact: 1) She covets her phone like it's sacred.
I like my characters to have personalities thanks.
I never once felt like I got an impression in my mind of the characters or what was happening.
It was like reading random words on a page that I was desperate to make mean something.
But I will say that given how many trustworthy reviews I've seen give it a poor rating I'm glad I could DNF it early on and move to better novels.
DNF at page 154.I was excited about this but 150+ pages is too far in to feel like I don't yet know one of the main characters at all, and still be waiting to get interested in the story. For a book pitched for its cute text element, the texts took quite a while to be incorporated and are showing ZERO connection between these characters so far. I just grew bored waiting for things to get going.*I received an unsolicited free copy of this book from the publisher but my opinions are my own.*
When I first saw this book and read the blurb I got really excited and expected a fun and fluffy contemporary romance.
When Penny rescues Sam from a panic attack I think they saw an excuse to have someone to talk to so they exchanged numbers but most of their conversations seemed to cover up loneliness and the ending didn't correlate to me.
I fully understand that just because I didn't like this book doesn't mean you won't so I say check it out at the library before you buy.
I was so sure I would love this book and so sad that the inside didn't match the cover or blurb.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Penny and Sam have designated themselves as sort of “lone wolves.” She, for years – he, ever since his long-term girlfriend dumped him and he found himself in a downward spiral towards alcoholism. When the two discover they each have no one they feel they can rely on, they opt to make a sort of pact . . . . . After that???? Phones rule humans drool As the two discover maybe your best friend can be someone you don’t really ever hang out
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Penny and Sam have designated themselves as sort of “lone wolves.” She, for years – he, ever since his long-term girlfriend dumped him and he found himself in a downward spiral towards alcoholism.
As the two discover maybe your best friend can be someone you don’t really ever hang out with in real life.Emergency Contact would have never even pinged my radar if it weren’t for my friend Sarah's Review.
It was nice to see someone with ACTUAL problems being presented to show what a real crap hand at life looks like.And the texts themselves?
2 stars ★★What a disappointment this was.
I love books in which the characters text and this was sold to me as one of these books but they don't even start texting halfway through the novel and the texting is definitely not a huge part of the story.The main characters, especially Penny, were so annoying!
By the end of the book, I just wanted to throw it outside the window because I was D O N E.Also, the blurb says that they meet at by a collision of unbearable awkwardness.
Unbearable!!!!!!
I don't know for you, but (view spoiler)[having a panic attack (hide spoiler)] is in no way awkward!Anyway, I really didn't like this book.
