https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181087.Mio_My_Son
such a kind and unassuming phrase, for such a kind and unassuming boy, in such a sweet story.
Such a sweet story, full of longing and sadness - but only at first.
A terror of the unknown transformed: turned into a quest, a rescue mission.
A great evil, surely - but one with a core of self-loathing: sometimes even evil cannot abide itself, so the author makes clear.
The author makes clear that it is love, love most of all, that little boys and little girls and all things need.
This is story-wise pretty straightforward and simple fairy tale,fantasy but the writing was of higher level. Since this is the the first time i have read Astrid Lindgren i didnt know what to expect. It was written in a epic poetry like prose that made the story much more interesting,fantastical and imaginative. Her storytelling techniques was clear to see what she was trying to do.In hindsight its better i read this as an adult where i could see clearly what the writing, the prose style was doing.
This is one of the first books I ever read on my own.
And I have read it many times since.
It's very dark and sad, but there's a glimmer of hope shining as a bright star on the night sky.
It's beautiful and it touches and tears at my heart everytime I read it.I guess it's classified as a childrens book, but really it's an 'for every age' book.
Adults as well as children will be moved by this story.
I know for myself, this is one of the books I will never outgrow and which will never lose it's ability to touch my heart.
Easter was the perfect time to read this.

Ensimmäinen kertani kun luin kyseisen kirjan! Hieman riskillä suoraan ääneen lapsiryhmälle, mutta toisaalta harvoinpa Lindgren pettää. Ei tälläkään kertaa, ja vaikkei ihan lempparien joukkoon tuotannostaan nousekaan, lapset pitivät hurjasti. Sopivan jännittävä ja otteessaan pitävä, ja tästä "vanhanajan" hidastempoisuudesta pidän kyllä minäkin. Ihana kun koko ajan ei pauku, hälise, tapahdu ja räjähdä, mikään ei ole niin ihanaa vastapainoa nykylastenkulttuurille kuin tämä vanhempi. Vaikka on siinä tuoreemmassakin toki helmensä, mutta ilman tätä "ennen kaikki oli parempaa" -huumaa, tietenkin.
Or maybe I'm just way too old for a book written for such young kids.
Ever since I was a kid, I've been looking for this book, and never could order it or anything.
I understand it's written for young children, but there is no build-up, the climax is rather weak, and the ending is rather flat as well.
Even when he fights Kato, Kato almost immediately just says, "kill me!" Mio works for nothing.Again, I understand that a young children's book isn't going to be very deep, but I at least expect it to be more interesting and coherent.
And for there to actually be emotion.
Deceptively simple and straight-forward; I sense depths that I'll better plumb upon a reread in a year or two.
If nothing else I'll remember Sir Kato's stone heart for a long time....The only reason this might be difficult for a modern American child is that the setup takes very little time, the introduction to the land of Faraway quite a bit more, and the adventure only half the book.Lots of illustrations of little boys with bare long legs and long jerseys and horses, flowers, a cottage, a well, a grandma....
Wikland used a more casual line than he did in the Lotta books, but the pictures still charm.Reread.
I bet it's even better in the original Swedish.
رائعة أخرى من روائع استريد ليندجرين شاهدت فيها ولدي ذا السبع سنوات يقع في حب القراءة وقعة لا أرجو له نجاة منها ♡ميو ولد متبنى لعائلة لاتحبه ترسله جارة مشفقة بطريقة فنتازية الى faraawayland الأرض القصية ليلتقي بوالده الملك.يبدو أن الجميع كان يتظر ميو ليحقق نبوءة عمرها ألف ألف سنة بمحاربة السير كاتو. حبس الأنفاس، والشجاعة، ومواجهة الخوف، وتحسس آلام الآخرين، واستشعار الخير، والنفور من الشر؛ كلها مشاعر وأحاسيس ومباديء لمستها في هذه القصة الكلاسيك.
Ich kannte die Geschichte vorher noch nicht, aber die Geschichten von Astrid Lindgren sind wirklich für alle Altersgruppen geeignet.War ein süßes Abenteuermärchen.
3.5 stjärnor Söt bok! <3
70)Satumaisten käänteiden jälkeen Mio pääsee Kaukaisuuden Maahan, jossa hän tapaa isänsä kuninkaan.
Kaukaisuuden Maassa asiat näyttävät päällisin puolin aurinkoiselta unelmalta, mutta Hämärän Metsän toisella puolella alkaa Autiuden Maa, jossa ritari Kaamolla on linna.
Tuhannen tuhatta vuotta sitten oli määrätty, että poika, jolla on kuninkaallista verta, ja joka ratsastaa valkoisella kultaharjaisella ratsulla yhden ystävän kanssa on ainoa, joka voi nousta ritari Kaamoa vastaan.
Mion tietämättömyyttä ihmetellään jatkuvasti, vaikka hän on kasvanut toisessa maassa eikä voisi mitenkään tietää samoja asioita tai ennustusta, joka häntä koskee.
Ainoa isompi miinus tulee toisteisuudesta, jota oli paljon enemmän kuin muistin.
Bosse sudah hilang, yang ada hanyalah Mio, sang pangeran dari Negeri nun Jauh.
Ayahku sang Raja sangat senang mendengar tawa Mio, tidak seperti Tante Edla dan Paman Sixten yang senang memarahi Mio kalau ia tertawa keras-keras."Aku suka suara kicau burung," katanya.
Tetapi yang paling aku sukai adalah mendengar suara tawa anakku di Taman Mawar ini."Baik sekali ya, ayahnya Mio. Dia memang sangat senang bisa bertemu lagi dengan putranya, setelah 9 tahun terpisah.
Ayahku sang Raja bahagia karena putranya telah kembali ke sisinya....Karena itu, ia sangat sedih ketika Mio harus pergi melawan Kesatria Kato.
4 stars!4 stars!Mio, mein Mio has been one of the few Astrid Lindgren stories that I haven’t been familiar with during my childhood.
I never read the story and I haven’t seen any movie adaptations - if they exist.
I was curious to read Mio, mein Mio, considering that it’s one of Lindgren’s most famous stories.
Mio, mein Mio felt a little different that most of the other stories by Lindgren.
Mio, mein Mio is a rather serious story and it made me feel melancholic a few times.
I’m definitely going to read the other Lindgren stories soon.
if you have not read this - read it. it is such a beautiful, heartwarming, dramatic, and sad story about courage and hope, about the good standing up against evil. the style is simple enough to be accessible for children, but poetic enough to be enjoyed by adults. and i even think that this is one of few books by astrid lindgren that can be appreciated more by adults than children.
"All I know is that I laughed because it made my father the king happy." I couldn't say what or that anything was wrong with it, but I could not connect with this book as well as I did with The Brothers Lionheart or Ronia the Robber's Daughter. It is a cute story, and although a lot of it seemed heartfelt, it struck me as distant. However, I can absolutely see younger readers loving this. A lot of it seemed dream-like, some parts reminded me of fairy tales. Perhaps it is because Mio himself oft
It is a cute story, and although a lot of it seemed heartfelt, it struck me as distant.
Perhaps it is because Mio himself often compared things to fairy tales, and the narration had a repetitive theme which also made it seem more like a tale than a story one gets invested into - perhaps that's why it struck me as distant?The final paragraph seemed a bit odd (view spoiler)[I can't help but feel that there was a hint that all of Mio's adventures were just wishful thinking and that he, in fact, never left his unhappy life with his adoptive parents.
She was a huge fan of Lindgren and had grown up reading all of her books.Now it's 15 years later and I'm finally making the effort to read her other books.The first one I picked was Mio, My Son. It begins like so many children's fantasy novels do, with an orphan, Karl Anders Nilsson, wondering about his real parents.
Karl, like, Pipi, isn't really an orphan; he's just been separated from his father by extraordinary circumstances.Then one day he gets the chance to be reunited, being taken to Farawayland by a genie.
Jag har dessutom alltid blandat ihop den en del med Bröderna Lejonhjärta, så jag var väldigt glad över att läsa den till slut och reda ut alltihop (och jag var väldigt glad när jag insåg att ingen faktiskt dog i slutet, vilket jag hade fått för mig just på grund av Bröderna Lejonhjärta).Berättelsen själv är precis lagom delar barn och magi.
Jag är också glad för att jag inte läste den här boken i mellanstadieåldern för jag har en känsla av att slutet skulle störa mig och möjligen förstöra upplevelsen en del.
He is taken there and enjoys learning about his true home, but it comes at a price--he must face the evil Sir Kato!Wonderful illustrations, and the tale resonates strongly with Norse myth and legend (hardly surprising, given that Lindgren was Swedish.) However, there are a few quibbles about the lack of development of some promising threads.
Mio's best friend Pompoo repeatedly tells him "There's a lot you don't know, Mio." Well, that can be said of anyone...but I kept wondering why Pompoo doesn't help him find out some stuff that Pompoo obviously does know and Mio doesn't.
Bis zu seinem neunten Lebensjahr wusste Mio nicht, dass er Mio heisst.
Er wusste auch nicht, dass sein Vater ein König ist.
Eines Tages jedoch rettet Mio einen Geist aus einer Flasche und wird von diesem daraufhin ins Land der Ferne gebracht, dem Königreich seines Vaters.
Endlich wird er geliebt, erlebt viele Abenteuer, und rettet das Land sogar vor dem bösen Ritter Kato.Die Geschichte ist süss.
Hätte ich Mio, mein Mio als Kind gelesen, hätte ich das Buch sicherlich geliebt – sei es auch nur aufgrund von Miramis, dem Pferd, das sogar durch die Lüfte galoppieren kann.
This is probably one of the most boring book I've ever read!I think it would be nice to read for your small children as a bedtime story but not for anything else. I had to read the whole book since it was a school thing and I died of boredom several times while reading it. Then everytimne I died Mio came and resurrected me ,and I died again, and he resurrected me, and i died and so on...Nothing really happens in the book except Mio riding around with his extremely annoying friend Jum-Jum!Don't read this book!The book gets -27334735 stars!!!
باشکوه بود و رویائی. قشنگ بود.زیبا و دلانگیز بود.و دوستش داشتم. دوستش داشتم :}ممنونم از خانم توکلی جانم :)
باشکوه بود و رویائی. قشنگ بود.زیبا و دل‌انگیز بود.و دوستش داشتم. دوستش داشتم :}ممنونم از خانم توکلی جانم :)
بهترین کتابی که توی بچگی خوندم:)
Another of the great stories by Astrid Lindgren, one of my favourite authors, in any language, for any age group. She was unique.
Дълго се чудех тази ли е по-тъжната книга, или „Братята с лъвски сърца“... Но както и да е, няма значение — и двете са ВЕЛИКИ!
An orphan, he lives in Stockholm with his foster parents, Aunt Hulda who wanted a boy and Uncle Olaf who thinks Andy makes too much noise.
But then one day Aunt Hulda, after telling Andy yet again that the day he came to their house was an unlucky one, is given a card to post by Mrs Lundy and an apple that turns to gold.
Written in mesmeric prose, in less skillful hands this would have been just a good story to tell a younger child, but Lindgren makes it magical, mythic and unsentimental.
Und ich erinnere mich, dass ich es damals sehr ger mochte.Der Sprecher hat eine angenehme Stimme und ich stelle mir beim Zuhören einen Opa vor, der seinen Enkelkindern vorliest.
Manchmal betont er aber irgendwie komisch.Die Geschichte ist sehr Märchen-mäßig und ein bisschen zu sehr "Friede-Freude-Eierkuchen" für meinen heutigen Geschmack.Dass der Ich-Erzähler jedes mal, wenn er von seinem Vater spricht, "Mein Vater, der König" sagt, machte ich im Verlauf des Buches zunehmend aggressiv ;) Aber insgesamt trotzdem schön.
Und wie gesagt, als Kind mochte ich es sehr und es ist ja nunmal für Kinder gedacht.
Jeg synes ikke språket er spesielt imponerende, men med en niårig fortellerstemme er det kanskje passende med et litt mindre utviklet språk.
En verden hvor han beholder de få positive tingene han har i livet, samt får oppleve alt han drømmer om.
Å ha en far som elsker ham, en hest som er helt hans egen, barn som er snille med ham i stedet for å være slemme og ikke la ham få være med å leke.
I den virkelige verden bor han med en fostermor som ikke bryr seg om han i en by hvor han kun har en venn.
Meine Begeisterung für Lindgrens Erzählungen ist weiterhin ungebrochen. Heute habe ich endlich mal Mio, mein Mio gelesen.Eine wirklich sehr märchenhaft erzählte Geschichte über einen kleinen Jungen, der sich seinen Ängsten stellt und zusammen mit seinem Freund Jum-Jum den bösen Ritter Kato besiegen muss.Die Geschichte wirkt sehr melancholisch und nachdenklich. Lindgren verwendet viele klassische Märchenelemente, wie Wiederholungen und Aufzählungen etc. Anders als die meisten ihrer anderen Kinderbücher wirkt Mio deutlich ernster, trotz der sehr jungen Charaktere.Ein sehr lesenswertes Buch, für Groß und Klein, mit wunderschönen Illustrationen versehen.
This was a book that left a great impression on me when I read it as a child.
I have not read it in a very long time and cannot remember the details of the book, however it did leave so big an impression that I still remember the general story and even where I was the first time I read it.
This book is also excellent for reading aloud and share the impression with other family members.
Just like The Brothers Lionheart by the same author this is a book that leaves an impression, makes you think and at the same time is a great story.
