https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860192.The_Provincial_Lady_in_London
I enjoyed it just as much as the first volume, but will read other things before continuing the Provincial Lady's saga so that I can continue to appreciate E M Delafield's quirky sense of humour.
(This, if taken literally, will amount to extraordinarily little, as have long ceased to play piano seriously, have never at any time been able to sing, and have completely forgotten few and amateurish recitations that have occasionally been forced upon me on local platforms.)Highly recommended for a light-hearted look at life in an English village between the wars.
Told in a witty, telegraphic style, our delightful heroine, now a minor authoress, must balance caring for her children, navigating a foreign watering hole, soothing the frequently ruffled feathers of the French nanny who is always having a crise, and budgeting within the confines of her shockingly thin bank account (or, unfortunately, budgeting not quite within the confines of her bank account).
All of this while trying to write a follow-up book to satisfy her publisher!
A dinner party with an old school chum whose glamorous life and ageless skin prompts a crise for our dear heroine is worth the price of the book.
M. Delafield, I found a review of Bridget Jones in which the reviewer states that Helen Fielding is Delafeild's literary successor, a statement that could only be perpetrated by someone who has not read the Provincial Lady books, but instead only knows that the story is told in a diary format.
Since this is actually a review for Delafield's book I suppose I should actually review it and stop my ranting about "that one."The Provincial Lady if not exactly a scream is but certainly is a lot of fun to spend a weekend with.
This is all to say that I think The Provincial Lady and I could be good friends.
And so it was, in 1930, Delafield began writing her largely autobiographical novels detailing the day-to-day life of a Devonshire-dwelling upper-middle class lady and her attempts to keep her somewhat ramshackle household from falling into chaos.Substituting the names of Robin and Vicky for her own children, Lionel and Rosamund, The Diary of a Provincial Lady has never been out of print.In this second book, The Provincial Lady Goes Further, written in 1932, our Lady is now a published author.
I very much enjoyed the first book in Delafield's Provincial Lady series, and was keen to continue.
The narrative voice, as it is in the original tome, is captivating and witty.
No old ground from the first book is covered in detail, but even if you haven't read the first tome for years and years, you are thrust right back into it, recalling forgotten details almost at once.
The Provincial Lady Goes Further is culturally aware and laugh-aloud funny in places, and so very enjoyable.
Still written in diary form, and decidedly difficult to put down, this is a wonderfully entertaining read, sure to delight all fans of Persephone and Virago books.
April 5th - Pleasure at receiving notice of availability of book to borrow diminished when I arrive a site and find it is the second volume, not the first, which I was anticipating.
(Mem.: Ponder possibility of plot by publishers in releasing second volumes of series free to public sites, thus inducing readers to shell out hard earned money for first book.
Resolve to remain firm in face of such machinations.) April 6th - Puzzle over question of MC's husband - Robert - who seems to neither toil nor does he spin, while his family is always short of Funds.
This is a sequel to The Diary of a Provincial Lady and it's equally enjoyable.
Since the publication of her first book has attained some financial success, the Provincial Lady acquires a London flat - husband Robert doesn't get much say in this and stays comfortably in Devon.
(whose name we never find out) spends time with friends and their literary acquaintances.
Old friends, hardly remembered, Pamela Pringle for one, show up, and P.L. is fascinated by her somewhat scandalous lifestyle.
The edition I own contains four volumes in one, The Diary of a Provincial Lady and three sequels.
This books finds The Provincial Lady, now a celebrated author, taking a flat in London, ostensibly to get some writing done but instead mostly reluctantly socializing with a variety of amusing friends and acquaintances including scandalous old school chum Pamela Pringle and Emma the Bloomsbury Group hanger-on. If the original Diary of a Provincial lady were chocolate cake, this would be day old chocolate cake - almost as good but not quite, but you still wouldn't mind another piece.
3 estrellas Cómico y chispeante. E.M. Delafield tiene la habilidad de hacer reir con las situaciones más absurdas y cotidianas de esta dama de provincia, la cual tiene un serio complejo de inferioridad y un guardarropa limitado para sus citas sociales.Simpático y llevadero si te gusta el humor inglés.
Delafield's Lady continues her fun chronicle of daily life, domestic incidents, and the spreading of her creative wings as a published writer.The Lady still talks of village life in Devonshire, her domestic challenges, interactions with her domestic help, her skeptical husband Robert, and the young children Robin and Vicky.
It is all with a certain amount of amusement -- half pointing out the eccentricities of friends and foes and half doubting her own daily sanity.In this volume of the diaries, the Lady has now published a book to some success and rents a flat in London from which she may do her writing part time.
Perhaps even better than 'Diary of a Provincial Lady'! I really enjoyed this book:) The style is very straight-forward and almost unintentionally humorous. We are taken along on a ride through the Provincial Lady's life as she sets up a flat in London, from which to write. There are distractions aplenty and funny, almost anecdotal stories about her family and household staff. I'm looking forward to reading the next one, "Provincial Lady in America."Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
I loved The Diary of a Provincial Lady, because it's written exactly the style in which I imagine a harassed mother in the 1930's might write. This book follows on, and is just as funny. The problems the author has with finding extra staff and a way of furnishing a flat she has rented in London (so she can write)are not your everyday problems, but the way she writes about them made me smile and sometimes laugh aloud. Recommended for Anglophiles and people not maddened by upper middle class.
If anything, this book is funnier than the first one ... I couldn't stop laughing. Clearly, I should have been reading these while in the hospital - they would have done me a world of good. What fun!! Bridget Jones is a piker compared to this!
A delight from beginning to end! I challenge you to read this and not go through your day internally describing events as our Lady would. She is a scream and the stories and the characters involved ring true, which is what makes them so amusing. Looking forward to picking up the next installment.
Very enjoyable account of the Provincial Lady's exploits in London and at home. Smiled amusedly throughout and laughed out loud at various points. Not great literature, but a lot of fun. I especially enjoyed her references to contemporary songs/plays/books--really gave a sense of the times.
http://abrightshininglie.wordpress.co...
Rather disappointed that this one wasn't as good as the previous one. Not sure whether I shall bother with the rest of the series.
This book is a follow up from the first book Diary of a Provincial Lady.
This is rather funny and amazing series.
Our provincial lady expands her interests to London and France and brings more interesting characters in the book by means of her amazing social life and her early life as a writer.
I think this book will make an easy read and most readers will find them absolutely glorious.
I can't wait to get started on her American trip.
I know it will be just as amazing.
I shall try and get more of her books!
You realize that at a basic level, the London life and people are not so different from those in the provincial world that the Lady drew in the first book of this series.
What makes this second book a fun ride again is the ability of the writer to interpret the absurdities of life and be able to convey it in a deliciously funny way."Literary Agent saying how much he looks forward to seeing my new manuscript.
That perhaps defines the success of the book but I felt I had lost my connection with the Provincial Lady.
Even though one has a cook and a housekeeper and the children are either at boarding school or home with a 24/7 governess or tutor, the Lady is frazzled with so much to do she rarely has time to keep the diary.2.
3. While cook and housekeeper seem to hold the upper hand in relation to the Lady, the poor French governess has devoted her life to the family and her charge so doesn't want to leave them.
THus when the young charge is to go off to boarding school, the Lady's problem is telling the governess she is no longer needed.
(Shared read-aloud.)The Provincial Lady is just as amusing here as in the first book.
(hide spoiler)] The Provincial Lady's time in London feels like an endless round of not-quite-pleasant evenings at parties.
There are also references to more cosmopolitan (i.e. scandalous) doings than I recall from the first book, which was set in the country (...thus the "Provincial" Lady).
I know it's meant to be funny-- and the Lady likely considers Cook an absolute necessity--  but the family's strange relationship with money is the one aspect of the books that is hardest for a modern, middle-class reader to completely grasp (much less sympathize with).
The edition I bought was actually terrible because the cover told me nothing about the book, but I thought the title sounded interesting (and this is a lesson in how important it is to title your book well).
Mostly, the woman gets invited to a lot of really dull parties, with the promise that people want to meet a writer.
In the very best little vignette of the book, she and her family take a vacation to France and have basically a miserable time while meeting a lot of crazy people.
Fue hilarante, novedoso, delicioso y mucho mas.Esta vez debo admitir que el libro fue un gran "meh".El libro es bueno, continúa con el mismo tipo de historia, pero...
Las historias del campo y los hijos y el marido se dejan de lado y son ahora las peripecias que sufre una autora que publicó un libro.Algunas de las bromas eran tan crípticas que pensé que hablaban de alguien que en su momento existió.
Que eran guiños para las personas que en ese momento se codeaban con la autora real del libro y que hacía mofa de personas reales.
After reading this pretty solid for several hours, I ended up talking to myself in the same cadence as the diary entries.
Answer: Enjoyable, yes, but did it say anything?] This conviction intensified as am rather dissatisfied at ending.
I'm horrible at remembering names, and enjoyed how Provincial Lady referred to people she met at parties, like phenomenally slim creature with shaven eyebrows.
I do the same but I need to add more flair to mine because I just say "Loud Man," or "Man with too much cologne." I recommend The Provincial Lady in London for a light-summer read, especially if you like early 20th century women's literature, which I do.
UAPL has an edition titled Diary of a Provincial Lady that combines all 4 books in one volume.
It's written as diary entries and nothing happens, but somehow you just can't put it down.
Diligence is rewarded in the next book when The Provincial Lady takes a flat in London, falls in with a louche crowd.
Next book takes her on an American book tour and in the fourth war is imminent.
Halfway through, seized with desire to phrase everything I write in form of diary entry.
527 pages later, all thoughts come in form of diary entries.
The second in the Provincial Lady series, which I found to be more enjoyable than the first.
In this book she ventures from her home in Dorset first taking a holiday in France followed by purchasing a flat in London.
She has now become an author of a book and therefore finds herself amongst London's literary elite leading to a number of situations where she appears to be somewhat out of her depth.
Feels as if it has more direction and flow that the first in the series.
My brother gave me the first one for Christmas several years ago and I had no idea what to expect, and then I fell in love with the voice of this fictional diarist.I liked the first one better than this, but I enjoyed this one, too.
I think it might be because for the first one, I had no expectations and then was wonderfully surprised, whereas for this one I was setting the bar high from the get-go.It's hard to describe the tone of these, but a Newsday reviewer on the back of this volume sums it up best: "What makes the book so endearing is the ambivalence of the...
It was a quick read and gave a glimpse into upper middle class (I'm assuming)life in England between the wars.The book did not transition well between Gutenberg and my kindle so frequently words were joined together, which made for difficult reading especially with terms and items I was unfamiliar with.
I think it would have helped to read the boos sequentially.
It also would have helped to have a little bit of background about the author and the period ( I wasn't sure exaxtly when it was written) .
I will read more od her writing but first will do some background reading.

Sat and read this one in a day.
A middle upper class 1930s lady and her diary of daily life.
I'm not sure how an American would enjoy this series (Provincial Lady also in America, in Wartime, and in Russia) since it is absolutely slow and quiet with oh so English quiet plot, underplaying crazy goings on, and big emotions that see the light of day with just a raise of the eyebrow.
But for some reason this quirky lady makes me smile and it's so far from my life and surroundings and just kookie enough that I give her 5 stars.
