https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330244.The_Member_of_the_Wedding
While not as highly regarded as her definitive work The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, Member of a Wedding is McCullers' tale of coming of age in the south in the 1940s, a story of a misfit girl in need of guidance to navigate the world.
Having no female friends or family members to teach her about the birds and the bees, Frankie is perfectly cast as the town's misfit, while Berenice prays that a girl best friend enters her life sooner than later.It is in this context that we meet twelve year old Frankie in the August of her brother's wedding as she plots to leave her home and join her brother on a worldwide adventure through life.
“The Heart is The Lonely Hunter” is one of my favorite books and movie”.....It was wonderful to enjoy Carson McCullers writing again.This is a beautiful and sad story told through the eyes of a 12 year old girl - who doesn’t feel as if she fits right in her own skin.
Now I want to read “The Ballad of the Sad Cafe”.....another book that’s been on my TBR list forever by Carson McCullersThemes of loneliness, racial issues, war, and anxiety run through the novel.
At times mesmerizing between the gorgeous writing and Sarandon’s voice.
Carson McCuller's The Member of the Wedding is my unrequited love story in my stable of hos: those lyrically intimate classical works I've read that stayed with me because they were confiders of sorts, someones I could go to and find some sort of explanation inside, a relating that was more than good enough of itself.
It's often uncomfortably painful in the don't-wanna-be-reminded-of-that-wasn't-I-reading-to-forget-that-in-the-first-place way.) I collected them, books like Betty Smith's A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, and Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye, and held them in reserve when it got to be too much.
She was afraid of these things that made her suddenly wonder who she was, and what she was going to be in the world, and why she was standing at that minute, seeing a light, or listening, or staring up into the sky: alone.I read a lot about loneliness.
She’s stuck and we’re all stuck, and damned if I of all people don’t know just how futile it can turn out to be to leave a place and start over and find that distant dog barks and car horns are everywhere, especially at dusk.This book surprised me.
Of course she doesn't know what the battle is and that is one of the beauties of this novel...Frankie's inability to articulate even to herself what is wrong.
Everyone else knows what the outcome of that demand will be.There are episodes of beautiful prose throughout the novel that capture memories of summer and heat so well.Time in August could be divided into four parts: morning, afternoon, twilight, and dark.
It was the hour when sparrows gathered and whirled above the rooftops of the town,  and when in the darkened elms along the street there was the August sound of the cicadas.
As per usual, McCullers comes much closer to the heart of it than most who try their hand at the metaphysics of growing up, but the threat society places on the body of a young white girl is still centered around that fact of whiteness.I may be too old to take as deep a comfort in this as I would have once, but my methods of reacting to fear of the oncoming void with rampant imagination are no different now than they were at age twelve and under.
Her father has told her she’s too old to sleep in his bed, her age mates have formed groups that don’t include her, and her only day-to-day company is her six-year old cousin John Henry and middle-aged Berenice who keeps house.
I was just like this when I was twelve years old.
This is what it’s really like, I constantly felt.
The relationships and interactions between Frankie and Berenice and John Henry are central.
Her empathy for Berenice, uneven and awkwardly or rudely expressed, is redeeming; she will not always be this awful awkward twelve year old.
Lonely motherless tomboy confronting sudden adolescence, prompted by her older brother's wedding.
Very evocative re hot Southern summer etc.McCullers has a very consistent voice, and yet somehow her books are distinct from each other.
In particular, lyrical and more literal musical aspects to much of her writing (reflecting the fact she very nearly became a classical pianist).Why This Book Matters to Me(This section was added after an epiphany, which prompted me to make my reviews more personal.)This was the first McCullers I read, and one of the first American books I read.
ChronologyIntroduction, by Ali Smith--The Member of the Wedding
Not only do you see the emotional turmoil of a preteen but you also get the racial tensions in the South and the tension created by the War. We know it is 1944 from the simple line that "Patton is driving the Germans out of France".
Alone....and the world is a scary place.The narration is fantastic; it is read slowly, with feeling, and it is easy to follow.
But the most stupendous books are those of fiction where the writers create a marvelous gem all from NOTHING.
They create a tale from assorted words and how they string them together, their imagination and their ability to capture human emotions that we all share.
That terrible angst of adolescence, the feeling that you are suppose to be doing something else, while not quite sure you want to leave what is safe but knowing for certain that there is more for you in life.
She feels stifled in a small town where she doesn't fit in, isn't a member of the club and her best friends are the very wise, black housekeeper Berneice and her 6 year old cousin John Henry.
You could feel the changes that were coming, they just hung heavy in the air....for Frankie and the South that she knew so well.
She hated herself, and had become a loafer and a big no-good who hung around the summer kitchen ...
The war and the world were too fast and big and strange.
To think about the world for very long made her afraid.
She was afraid because in the war they would not include her, and because the world seemed somehow separate from herself." When it is announced that her brother is getting married, Frankie becomes obsessed with the idea of leaving home and going to live with him and his new bride.
It comes packaged with all the traits of Southern Gothic but it transcends and subverts the genre in such a way to dig itself out of its Faulknerian tragedy and into something that has been crafted by only the finest of word smiths.
The narrator Frankie is remembered in the same light as Harper Lee's Scout Finch and Betty Smith's Francie Nolan but should not just be relegated to this list she should be and in many has grown a personality of her own and has turned this common "coming of age" novel into something so much more than that.
Enjoyed:--WWII time period--Berenice, the black housekeeper who is a storyteller and surrogate mother to the adolescent protagonist--Descriptions of Southern food (eaten in kitchen, where much of the action transpires)--The threesome of the adult female black housekeeper, the adolescent girl, and the six-year-old boy cousin, as a group--brevity of bookWarmed up to:--Slow pace of book, which was more difficult in the early part of the book--Southern milieu (which can be good or bad -- depends on the writer)Neutral on:--adolescence of protagonist, although, of course, it was necessary in a coming-of-age novelWorth noting:--Heavy foreshadowing related to red-haired soldier, which made the rest of the book more foreboding--Frankie's idea about a War Island brought to memory my childhood idea that "The War" (often discussed in the post-WWII era) was a place, where all war occurred.
(E.g., how any given color is experienced differently by different individuals.)--Frankie is leaving childhood (symbolized by John Henry) behind and moving toward womanhood (symbolized by Berenice)
She is being raised by her tired, widowed father and Bernice, their black housekeeper who dreams of a world where there is “no separate colored people in the world, but all human beings (are) light brown color with blue eyes and black hair.
No colored people, but all human men and ladies and children as one loving family on the earth.” Bernice also dreams of finding a new man who makes her "shiver." Frankie is on the brink of sexual and emotional discovery – and the rest of the world is also struggling with racial conflict and the horrors and disruption of war.
Talvez seja apenas porque o enredo é parco de acontecimentos, embora farto de significados e temo não ter compreendido o que Carson tentou transmitir...Frankie tem doze anos.
Jasmine começa a sonhar: fazer-se "sócia do casamento" e partir com o casal; libertar-se daquele lugar onde nada acontece.Logo, Frances compreende que os sonhos são quase sempre impossíveis - por mais que se lute por eles - e, ao chegar aos treze anos, um acontecimento terrível fê-la entender que o melhor é viver o momento, tentar ser feliz com o que tem.
Frankie is feeling lonely, and isolated in this coming-of-age story: "It happened that green and crazy summer when Frankie was twelve years old.
Her wish to belong to a group is so strong that she comes up with the idea of going away with her brother and his bride after their wedding.The story also shows Carson McCullers' concern for other individuals that are excluded because they are different.
"The Member of the Wedding" is a heartbreaking coming-of-age novel, but there is hope for a more realistic Frankie by the end of the story.
Sad Cafe, Golden Eye, Lonely Hunter - it is bold to say it, but this, could well be my favourite of all.
Twelve year old Frankie is Lonely Hunters Mick Kelly at a fever pitch.
She's like a tornado of pain, trying to tear her young self out.
What makes this novel brilliant though: Frankie, Berenice and John Henry in that dingy kitchen, talking large over hoppingjohn, corn bread and ham from the knuckle.
Rolling eternal thoughts among them like dice and landing on crazy.
The New York Times say in large print 'Rarely has emotional turbulence been so delicately conveyed'.
No. There's nothing delicate here.
No. There's nothing delicate here.
I was terrified of being drafted, but that certainly seemed like a less frightful future at the time.
I like the eccentricities within this genre: in one of Truman Capote's stories, his characters (adults and children) decide they want to live in a tree, they do, and more neighbors join them.
He's stupendously eccentric, hilarious, and he gives Mayberry a tinge of weirdness, as does Barney and Goober...but back to the "Wedding", it's very good, I liked it a lot, but it just comes a tad short of what I expect from McCullers.
I'm really disappointed. I thought I'd love this, but I didn't even like it.The story dragged, it was boring and it irritated me. I skimmed the last half just to get it over and done with.I didn't like any of the characters, not even Berenice. I found Frankie obnoxious, and wanted nothing more than to box her ears.Reading it was a chore!
"I wish I was somebody else except me."I've seen several pictures of Carson McCullers smiling, but I can tell she was a sad, sad person. Her characters tend to be this way: lonely, sad, at their wit's end of life; she writes about what she knows. I favor this more than 'The Heart is a Lonely Hunter', although I do respect it for it being her first novel.
i don't think i've read a more beautiful book.
Frankie Addams is one of those rare fictional characters who has entered my soul and wedged her way into a little corner where she will remain forever.
We are also allowed into the head of Berenice, the black housekeeper who is Frankie's confidant and champion, and in a lesser way, into the loneliness of her widowed father.
The novel takes place over 3 days in August before her brother's wedding.
Most of it takes place in the kitchen, with Frankie ranting about her life and making plans to escape.
Frankie even begins to call herself Jasmine, a name beginning with the same letters as both her brother and his fiancee, hoping for further acceptance from them.After announcing she will not be returning home from Winter Hill but will instead leave with Jarvis and his bride, Frankie’s father seems unmoved and Berenice waves off the talk as the ridiculous dreams of a child, though neither will explain why it is an impossibility or tell her that she is wanted/needed at home.With little supervision, Frankie continues to wander town and finds herself innocently flirting with a solider who believes her older than her 12 years.
Frankie Addams is 12 and feels like she doesn't fit in.
She never knew her mother, her best friend has moved away - even her precious cat has gone missing.
The Member of the Wedding concerns Frankie's feelings about this impending wedding and how she deals with it when it does, in fact, go ahead.
We learn about much of this from her discussions with Berenice - her father's housekeeper who appears to be her substitute mother.
You can practically reach out and touch Frankie's frustration at times.
What a great book!The book was published in 1947 and I was worried that the story might be outdated. But no, a really well written story, very disturbing, about young motherless girl (12 years old) brought up mostly by the black cook, Bernice. Her widowed father was also present but was fairly busy with his own job. The girl was fairly grown up for her age, had her own fantasies and wanted to belong somewhere else or even to run away from her home.I recommend this book to all the people who have young children.An excellent read. Loved it.
Such a vivid, cruel when necessary, and yet unhysterical account of a 12 & 5/6th year old girl. She's filled with intense emotions that she doesn't have names for, eagerness, desperation. This is a book that describes how it feels to be this person--how it feels to be a smart girl somewhere in the mush between kid and adult, engaging in adult ideas but with a child's facility. McCullers is brave, she doesn't shy away from the horror of being alive, and yet never loses her warmth.
The Member of the Wedding is an authentic account of the desperate adolescent need to grow up and find a place to belong in the world. McCullers writes about the frustrations of childhood with great clarity, and her prose is compassionate and sincere. While I really enjoyed seeing the world through Frankie's eyes, I think this book would have resonated much more, had I read it when I was younger.
Her occasional companion is her six-year old cousin, John Henry West.One strength of this novel lies in McCullers skill in slowly and expertly drawing us into the mind of this angst-ridden, confused, sensitive, imaginative, and intelligent young girl as she desperately tries to find her place in the world.
We are anxious for her safety as she wonders into a bar and agrees to rendezvous with a sailor later that night, oblivious to any potential danger such a “date” might pose.Another great strength of this novel is McCullers ability to capture the dialog of Frankie, Berenice, and John Henry as they sit around the kitchen table.
Not really for me this one, I've realised I don't really like being reminded how awkward and angsty it was to be 12! Didn't really go anywhere and ended abruptly.
