https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14641805-the-i-am-discourses
We should take our attention completely away from the negative condition and focus purely on the I AM statement.For good health: “’I AM’ Perfect Health now manifest in every organ of my body.” Or: “’I AM’ the Perfect Activity of every organ and cell of my body.”For financial freedom, say:”’I AM’ the wealth – God in Action – now manifest in my life, my world.”When there is something we urgently want to achieve, we should use: “’I AM’ the Commanding Presence, the exhaustless energy, the Divine Wisdom, causing my desire to be fulfilled.”We should often say: “I AM the Presence” with everything we wish to have done.
excellent, although re translation of scripture might make your traditional closed-minded, my-way-is-the- only-way-christian, cringeThis is certainly a book that needs to be studied to be utilized and the initial practice is difficult in my opinion, as I have been attempting to put this information into my life and it has taken some strange but definitely better direction.
Pretty heavy. Most rung true. Some was out there. Uh, way out there.
If I could have just one book to help me navigate the labyrinth we call reality, this would be the one.
Love!
Wow. most self empowering thoughts of a Saintly Soul. Provided me with a new thought paradigm.
A Spiritual Text that needs to be studied and referenced often. Not a book for beginners. A Golden Key to Life, now and throughout eternity. One that, in order to be understood, a need for detachment from religious dogma is required. Right at the beginning of the book there is a statement from Jesus. He said: "It is unfortunate indeed that some of the Scriptural Statements have been clouded by human concepts; yet I am thankful indeed that many have remained unaltered."
These are great books to read. They give you a true understanding of an Ascended Master. They are amazing!!
Not a book you read cover to cover, you peruse and digest. Certainly provides food for thought.
Inspiring and as valid today as in the 1930's! Will be reading it again and again.
OUTSTANDING! EXCELLENT!!!
