https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28335176-spitfire
Repetitive and somewhat impersonal but still worth reading
War is often mundane Not the most exciting account of the Battle of Britain, but a realistic picture of the day-to-day workings of a fighter squadron.
Not every sortie is action packed, sometimes you meet nothing at all or the bad guy slips away.
Lane, a squadron commander at the time of writing this book, sets down the exciting times, but most often the times that were almost exciting.
Quite often nothing comes from a flight, but Lane writes an enthusiastic and engaging account nonetheless.
Not for those readers seeking a Boy's Own adventure, but rather for those who desire a more realistic version of the war.
An interesting short readI always thought the battle of Britain was a hard fought courageous battle wherein the British pilots were outnumbered and fighting a difficult defense. This book gives me the impression that they easily handled the attackers or at least that is what this pilot experienced.This is a quick read.
Light-hearted view of the war from a Spitfire cockpit.A short and somewhat rambling narrative from the early days of the war. Nothing new here, but there is a fair measure of authentic RAF nostalgia and the beautiful and classic Spitfire.
World War II storyAnother book written by a member of the RAF during the Battle of Britain. Unlike most books of the time, it has a politically incorrect word in it. The pilot is fearless and confident; unfortunately as you read it, you know he dies after writing the book.
There are some good WW2 memoirs out there - this one was pretty thin. Not sure how much you get out of it.
Quick but not completeQuick read but more of a diary of a pilot in the very opening days of WWII than a more in depth look.
A fairly short and easy book to read, written by the author whilst flying and fighting in his spitfire during the Second World War.I very much enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it to other's who have a fascination with the Battle of Britain and the lives of the airmen who fought in it.
Take a flight in a spitfireThis is a very personal account of how we won the battle of Britain,the brave pilots keeping our sky's free. This is a book written in a language of the time some things said are not PC today ,I found the book fascinating a very clear account about flying a spitfire in war time.
FacinatingThis is a fascinating insight not only of the life of a wartime fighter pilot but also about the thoughts of one. These pilots seemed to have a rather 'glamorous' war compared to infantry soldiers, even though the threat to life and limb was the same.
Interesting Because it was written at the time of the Battle of BritainAn easy read fairly short but interesting because of the perspective of being written exactly when the event was happening.
An informative, personal account of a Spitfire pilot during the early years of WWII and the "Battle of Britain." A quick read.
Insightful look into combat flyingWritten during wartime censorship so unless you are very familiar with initials used for airfields the average person might not enjoy as much
Another short, sharp and to the point recounting from someone who was there, did that.
My thought.Good , tough writing job under very demanding circumstances. Four starsDifficult, but a very determined writer who got the job done.
Its ok read. Mind candy some what about flying a Spitfire was real good.
Outstanding!I felt as though I was in the cockpit. The most descriptive account of air combat I've ever read. Good show!
