https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13153.Hide_and_Seek
just ok..it was a mind provoking book,engaging at times but then i'm disappointed with the storyline..(paperback!)
Most of the story is the biography of Maggie Bradford, the singer, starting from her miserable first marriage, then her later years.
Another huge part of the book is the biography of Will Shephard, the famous football player and the second husband of Maggie.
But for more than 75% of the book we mostly read the biographies of Maggie and Will.
The suspense is unfortunately only a minor part of the book.Also, the story reminds me a lot of Public Secrets by Nora Roberts.
If you liked Hide and Seek, Public Secrets may be your thing.
Ogni volta mi ripetevo «Solo un altro capitolo» per poi continuare e continuare, in preda a una smania crescente.Una brama alimentata da Will Shepherd.Lui, il secondo marito.Lui, il protagonista assoluto di questa storia.Lui, la Follia.Così come Tyrion Lannister era ossessionato dal voler conoscere il motivo per cui suo cugino schiacciava gli insetti con tale ferocia, così io, pagina dopo pagina, volevo capire questo ragazzo.
Ed è assolutamente divino nella sua pazzia.Non voglio dirvi altro o continuare a delirare come una fangirl per il villain di questa storia, che va assaporata rigo dopo rigo.
Hide and Seek is my first novel by American author, James Patterson.
I can still say that It is a page-turner because you could imagine the drama and mystery it entails the readers but it only ends at that.The novel tells the story of a famous singer Maggie Bradford who once killed her husband in order to protect herself from scurrilous attacks and at the second part of the story, being accused of murdering his second husband, Will Shepard.
And during those tormenting moments she had entered the world of go Hide and Seek.*Sorry for the spoiler*Although I tried to appreciate the verdict of Maggie Bradford.
This was one of my least favorite Patterson novels.
There is nothing wrong with it except that I didn't care about any of the characters.
Most of the story is told from Maggie's point of view.
As a young wife she killed her abusive husband to protect her child.
She goes on to a fabulous song-writing and singing career.
But the story is told in flashbacks from her sitting in jail awaiting trial for killing her current husband after she is already a success.
She comes off snarky and smug instead of frightened about the outcome of her trial.
Not up to Patterson's usual writing.
An excellent stand alone novel by James Patterson.Short chapters, fast paced, full of action, sound familiar?
Characters were cardboard.
Heroine was unlikable and stupid.
Patterson should refrain from trying to write a female main character.
At 6% in our heroine gives this description of herself, (view spoiler)[ "I glanced at my own reflection in the cab's window.
A small mouth, thickish lips - made, as Phillip joked in the happy days, for fellatio."  (hide spoiler)]I finished this only because I committed myself to read it for a group reading activity.
Maggie Bradford was a dull character to me, however maybe I just feel that way because I cannot relate to her situation.
I felt that Patterson focused way to much on Maggie's life and how she lived and not enough of her marriage to Will Shepard and the developing collapse of their marriage.
I just felt that is was a long and drawn out book that never really captured my attention.
Finally I just felt that the ending was not really clever nor realistic.
P.S. This is my first post ever!
I hope to post lots more reviews!
Maggie Bradford is a famous singer and songwriter.
Many of her songs are based on the pain and heartbreak she feels because she killed her abusive husband before he killed her and their daughter Jennie.
Years later, Maggie falls for famous soccer player Will Fletcher.
Maggie shoots him outside her home after finding him with Jennie.
Now she must undergo trial for killing her second husband.I'm pretty sure I read this book when it came out 20 years ago.
Patterson throws in some major twists near the end of the book.
I didn't suspect the ending.
Maggie Bradford has had it tough when it comes to romance.
The worse of it comes when she meets soccer star Will Shepherd who is a double image of David Beckham.Besides being well known from the field, the Golden Arrow is also quite the ladies man.
Ironically, the reader fully knows what is going on in their heads, but he is still totally caught off guard by what really happens in the end.This is not necessarily one of his best, but Patterson did put together another nice read with this one.
This was pretty boring as I don't read James Patterson to hear a woman describe how beautiful her wedding was and how each new guy in her life made her feel so special (actually I don't read Patterson at all, I only listen to him on audio books).
The redeeming aspects of the book are that the premise of the story is the main character is a pop star on trial for murdering her husband.
The book reads like Nicholas Sparks wrote the first half, while the woman is recapping her life, then Patterson takes over for the trial and ensuing action.
i was actually busy with another book, but we went on a motorbike weekend and the other book was too heavy to carry, so i grabbed this one. :) it was a quick read and oh my word - suspenseful ... very hard to put down. although i enjoyed it, it's not really my cup of tea. i prefer historical fiction, but like to try something different every now and again. well, at least i can say i've read a james patterson now. :)
Unfortunately, this was full of unrealistic characters and clichés. It may be a good pool-side read if you don't want to have to think much on holiday!
Hide and Seek is only the second book written by James Patterson that I’ve read but I can definitely get a sense of a writer sticking to a formula that works (and why the hell not?).
In a way, maybe I was put off because James Patterson has sold trillions of his books.
Hey, if it’s good enough for the multi-million selling Patterson...Hide and Seek was first published in 1988 but it doesn’t read as too dated to me.
I’ve got one more James Patterson book on my shelf to get through, but after that I very much doubt I’ll be reading more from this writer to learn anything new.
As the first James Patterson novel I read I must say I was really dissapointed.
I had heard all this hype surrounding his works and this was just an OK book.
I found myself more interested in every other character except the main character, Maggie.
I found her to be a very boring person.
I wanted more of Will's story.
I am no English scholar or professional reviewer so I'm not sure how to put this, but I felt that the last 100 pages or so was like reading a different novel.
Or perhaps the same novel just finished by a different author.
Patterson's style makes you feel like you're watching a movie with the fast paced events, the skilful manipulation of timeline and the great character structure.you can easily relate to Maggie. A good person that just want to follow her dreams of singing and song writing and escaping from the horrible memories of her life. Sadly, tragedy always follow her.You meet Will,the psychopathic killer with the charming manner and the ability to achieve most of his dreams through his good looks and athletic fitness.I'll happily read other books written by Patterson. Kudos to him.

James Patterson; here's the dilemma: Mr. Patterson puts out many books (perhaps too many.) From what I understand he made $77 million last year, enough money not to worry about going hungry; so please be more selective in what you publish. I lost interest in Mr. Patterson's writing after a valiant attempt in reading "Hide and Seek;" one of rare few books I did not want to finish.
Loved James Patterson’s Hide and Seek. Caught me at the beginning and didn’t want to put it down.
ehhhh.. it was ok
But my personal engagement during and after reading Hide and Seek is repulsion.
So much of the black widow’s story is told, rather than shown, as if Maggie is simultaneously revealing her actual feelings while hiding the reasons for her hurried love affairs.
Maggie lost herself after killing her first husband, labeling herself M for Murderess, and she found fleeting love in Patrick.
After his wife died of cancer, Patrick flung himself into work, hiding feelings until Maggie rekindled them.
Such labels are simple-minded, and when Maggie learned to stop hiding, her character (and the book) became that much stronger.
*Minor, inconsequential spoilers present*For about the first 250 pages, this book was terribly disappointing.
It had a few racy sex scenes, an uninteresting, rapey dude with MPD, plus, an annoying narrator who seemed to be telling her sob story about how celebrity status is so taxing, and full of hardships.
However, J.Patterson being the author, things are not what they seem.It alternates between the journal, and a third person account of a certain Will Shepherd, a fictional American football (or as the Americans'll 'ave it, soccer) striker, and soon( 150 pages later) to be husband of our Annoying Narrator.
Amazing read keeps you on your toes all the time fantastic read xx
But Will has dark, dangerous secrets that none of his fans could have imagined...that his own aid could never have dreamed of."^^The plot sounded all mysterious and thrilling but when I actually started reading the book it felt totally flat.
And so the 1st 3/4th of the book seems to be like a messed up love story with the silliest possible female lead.
And only the last bit made this story feel like a crime thriller...except even then it still wasn't thrilling.
It's like JP dragged the story explaining the characters past and then just rushed through the part I was actually looking forward to read.
The plot is there is a successful lady who is a country and western singer, & she has got married twice and it looks like she has shot both husbands.
That works out okay but then years later she has another abusing husband and she can't remember whether she has shot him or not.
I think the story that his wife might have battered wife syndrome where she falls for abusive men subconsciously.
With the second husband he has been sexually molesting his step daughter which the prosecution say led to her murdering him.
He also physically abuses his wife & tends to sleep around and rather malevolently keeps asking for forgiveness.
Hide and Seek   highlights the intriguing life of Maggie Bradford and Will Shepherd behind their bitterly-wicked past and dimming lights of their present stardom – disgruntled, dangerous, provocative, and indecisive. Though there are various low points wherein I found myself wanting to turn and skip some of the pages, the excitement will only endures on the concluding chapters of the storyline. It’s a slow-phased drama that will leave you dangling for the truth and final answers after sequence

This is a book I read a long time ago when it first came out in the late 1990's, extremely interesting the way the juridical courts and their attendants work ie: the judge, lawyers & jury.
This book has lots of twists and turns, with Maggie hating the lifestyle of the rich & famous but she cannot live with out the adoration of her fans and 'friends' This book is full of wonderful characters, descriptions of the crime scenes and how the crimes were committed.
Maybe I finished this book in a day because it's very interesting.
Or maybe I finished it because I got nothing better to do.
That aside, the book is interesting enough for me to keep flipping the pages.
And honestly, when the book ended all I could think was I hope I wasn't as bad in love like Maggie.
Jokes aside, overall the book was well executed, but not the best of the best.
It could do so much better and the only time I actually got interested was near the end where there was a plot twist and I literally went DURN DURN DURNNNNN in my head.
The worst book I've ever finished, Hide and Seek is dreadfully and, at times, embarrassingly written. Its plotting is ludicrous and gives the impression of an extended game of "Consequences" stretched into a novel. However, this did mean that I wanted to finish the book, to see how the ridiculousness would be resolved. I can only summise that it doesn't represent Patterson's usual standard. If it does, his popularity is baffling to me.
Nothing much to add except the characters are deeply etched and woven in the plot. Not much of a suspense but what the book lacks makes up in the prose and language of the book. No wonder the writer is so prolific.
