https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5515.The_Diary_of_Anne_Frank
Stepping into a new kind of writing format and learning the basics of the great scripts, The Diary of Anne Frank brought back memories of when I actually read Anne's diary back in the day, and it gave me a whole new experience to love and devour for ages to come.So here's the thing: I have an obsession with Anne's diary.
It hadn't been a play all along for me, there were moments when this was realer than ever, and since there was dialogue between the people Anne spent years with in annexation, I have gotten to know their personalities much better than I ever would have if I just reread her diary over and over again for fifteen times.
Diary of Anne Frank is about a young girl who was a Jew. Not only was she a Jew but her whole family were Jews.
The Germans were capturing people who didn't meet their standards' the Jews weren't apart of their standards.
if you didn't meet their standards or if you were a Jew then you got sent to a concentration camp.
This was not only her diary it was best friend.i enjoyed reading this book because it taught me all about the holocaust.
I didn't know what the holocaust was until I read this book.
If you like to learn about World War II then this is the book for you.
No one should take ones freedom or right to live because of their religion, nationality or ethnic background.Such a tragic story but Anne Frank had never lost her hope, one of her last writing was 'In spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good at heart.'http://www.bbc.co.uk/annefrank/timeli...
I loved this book because of the well written format of this book. The story in this theatrical version is told so well that the reader can feel as if they are in the story themselves.
"Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl" was one of those, and I remember liking it, but it somehow didn't resonate as much of some of the others.
I don't completely remember why, but I know at least part of it was feeling like there were too many tangents, and I just wanted to find out what happened to Anne and her family--in other words, the basic fact that it was a diary got in the way for me.
The husband-and-wife authors of this book dramatized Anne Frank's story based on the book Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl.
A bitter sweet taste of what would be found in the book it's based on --a young girl's memoir of her days of hiding from the Nazis in World War II.
Moreover, this play was successful in bearing one of Anne's last observations in her diary: "In spite of everything, I still believe that people are really good at heart.".
One day I'll read Anne's book.
no paper towels in the house.**Find this review and more at Jinky is reading
The Diary of Anne Frank,one of the most tragic books I have ever read.
Starting from a good childhood life to a fearful escape, Anne Frank experiences the holocaust that was led by World War 2.
Her tragic moments were the most devastating times of her life causing her to create this Diary Documentary about her feelings, her experiences, and etc.
Each page was like a life-lesson or a theme that had to be read.
In future references, I do hope that the world understands that genocide is caused by the hatred of one ethnicity.
Overall, this play just makes me sad.
I think it's a good representation of what took place in the Secret Annex based on Anne's diary, but the reality of the situation saddens me.
I wonder what a girl like Anne, who as a 13 year old wrote a diary that has been published around the world, could have accomplished as an adult.
So having both together makes it very realistic.
This play does what it's intended to do - cause one to ponder the events of the past in order to better the future.
I'd be pissed if everyone in the world read my diary after I died.
Anne is thirteen when her diary begins in 1942, and she tells of what her experience was like being Jewish - and being in hiding - during World War II.
The Diary of Anne Frank gives hope to audiences, but doesn't spare them from the horrors of World War II and Anne's tragic fate.I chose this play for my unit on conflict/struggle because of what a fantastic figure Anne Frank is for students who may be experiencing great conflicts and struggles in their own lives.
I like that this strategy specifically asks kids to talk about the conflict of the story.
This text is the play version of The Diary of a Young Girl by Anne Frank, a written account of a young girl in the form of a diary (she called "Kitty" and often addresses as such with every diary entry) who successfully, painstakingly hid for two years with her family during the Nazi occupation in what was called the Secret Annex.
This text would link with my overarching theme of identity by leading students to think about what will remain to still define them when everything external is stripped away in light of a time period like the Holocaust that may impact millions of lives.
Anne and her family go into hiding with another Jewish family after her sister is summoned to a Nazi work camp, and she details their loving, nerve-wrecking, and disturbing history.
Students can become attached and feel for Anne’s struggles, making acting out the story as powerful as reading it.
Society conflict, making it essential to pair this story with Gallagher’s “That is Disturbing!” strategy.
This strategy allows students to research a moment and reflect on what makes it disturbing, which mostly is the violent relations between the Nazis and Jewish people of the time.
This version of The Diary of Anne Frank allows students to engage in the text in a way that is different than just reading it to themselves individually.
This story can serve as a way to talk about the pattern, or structure of plot.
I think by listening to certain scenes read aloud, students will better understand the aspects of rising action and climax because these moments will be reflected in the reader’s voice.
Working together as a class, students would brainstorm a list of questions about The Diary of Anne Frank.
The play is easier to read than the novel, and also allows students to practice reading aloud and taking on the roles of different characters.
I would ask students to read aloud the play and practice taking on different perspectives and using voice.
I may ask students to try role-playing and write letters from the perspective of Anne Frank or other characters in the play (Spandel 152).I would also use this text as a lead-in to using the strategy "Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life" (Gallagher 27).
Perspective wise, this play would introduce students to the point of view of someone around their age who actually lived during the Holocaust.
Kids will inevitably be learning about the Holocaust, and this play offers an accessible character for middle school students.
Since this play deals with some heavier issues that middle school students might have a harder time connecting with completely, creating an anticipation guide would help students relate to the material beforehand (Beers).
This activity would also serve to build students connections with Anne as someone they can relate to.
This was a class book. We went through it very slowly, but I still enjoyed it. I’ve always thought that the Holocaust was such an interesting event in history, and i enjoy reading and learning about it. I guess the reason i gave this book 4 Stars was because it was a class book and we just moved so slow and it just made reading the book a little less enjoyable to read.
Ideally it would be in an interdisciplinary context with students' History classes; however, regardless, a teacher can use the same strategies to help students understand both the Holocaust and the content of the play.
Also, to further this investigation, the teacher can choose an excerpt of the novel The Diary of a Young Girl that has content reflecting the same as a moment in the play, and the class can look at them side-by-side to discover benefits/drawbacks to using either genre.
It is a really good book, I learned so much about the Holocaust while reading this amazing book.Definitely recommend people to read this book.
The Diary of Anne Frank: the play is a great way to teach younger students the Holocaust.
This play is based of the Diary that Anne Frank wrote while in hiding and was changed into a play with the language simplified for a younger audience.
The anticipation guide helps students realize that things are not always black and white and sometimes their values need to change when it comes to tricky situations.With this text, Gallagher's I was a Witness strategy would be great because so many people witnessed the Holocaust, but many did not do anything.
Per la recensione completa venite sul mio blog "My Bookish Philosophy"!http://mybookishphilosophy.blogspot.c...Prima di tutto devo specificare che, come quasi tutti penso, avevo letto questo libro per scuola, parecchi anni fa, però non me lo ricordavo affatto (tutti quelli che mi conoscono sanno in che povero stato è la mia memoria…) e con questa seconda lettura ne sono stata molto colpita.
Un romanzo come non me lo aspettavo proprio, che quasi quasi mi fa domandare se effettivamente l’avevo letto, e che sono stata contentissima di poter riprendere.Anne Frank è una ragazzina nel giugno del 42’, ci troviamo in Olanda e la seconda Guerra Mondiale è già iniziata da tre anni ormai.
Anne Frank is the main character and is a Jew. Her family went off to hiding in their new home called the "Secret Annex".
The message of the book that the author wanted people to get after reading her diary will never be known.
This is a book that everyone should read because they would learn to appreciate their own lives, and that there are real things that happened to this girl that most teenagers can relate to.
I would recommend this book to anyone who has never read it before just because of the message that is made from the relationship created by the reader and Anne.
The play however was not something that I really enjoyed, which is why I gave it a two for my rating.What I liked about the play was the perspective you get about a Jew in hiding during WWII.
The play also started slow and unlike most books it stayed that way.What surprised me about the play was that both the Franks and the family they were with were captured in the secret Annex, and brought to concentration camps.
I had known of Ann Frank's story before I read the play, but I didn't know she went to a concentration camp.
When World War Two started Anne was 13. After the war continued, and her family had to go into hiding. There she has to live with another family, a stranger, and her own family. She rooms with her sister for the first year. Then after that a new man comes, and she's forced room with him. After that she falls in love with the other family's son. Then after living there for over two years they are found by the green police. They have to go too camps. After the war was over only Anne's father survived.
I liked how the play is 'bookended' with a scene between Miep Gies and Otto Frank set 3 years later, as he returns to the annex and starts to read Anne's diary, throwing him back to very recent events.
The excerpts from Anne's diary (presumably recorded as a voiceover and played as a sound effect) are well chosen and well placed, not too many and not too few.
In order to bring a play to the stage, actors need to learn those lines, follow the stage directions and rehearse.
I really enjoyed reading this book because it had a catchy story to it.
This is a great book for boys and girls from middle school up and it taught me a lot about what Jewish people had to go through during the holocaust.
Anne Frank learns to like her mom more towards the end and there are two Christian friends they have that help the family during the book.
This is also a boy and girl book so if you read it I hope you enjoy it.
OK, I'm sure I read excerpts from the Diary years ago for some class or another, and everyone who is literate knows the basics of Anne Frank's tragic story, but somehow I'd always missed reading it in any complete form.
The adapted play has been coming up several times lately in the theater circles I run in, so I decided to give it a go.I was unprepared for Anne's vivacity and her relative modernity.
She reads like a more modern teenager, and it makes her sad death in the closing months of WWII that much more immediate and horrifying.
It must have been truly harrowing.This is a sad work but so important and so easy to read.
I think I am supposed to feel more deeply about this book because it is about the hardships that jews had to go through to try (and fail) to survive during the holocaust, and that part is referenced and is really eerie and sad.
but what I didnt remember about this book is that yeah, it is also written by a 13 year old girl and 13 year old girls are dramatic and annoying.
so, glad I reread it, and understand its historical significance but I kind of had to push my way through the second half while anne went on and on about her brilliant self discovery and the boy upstairs.
The Diary of Anne Frank is a true story that takes place during World War 2.
This story is about a teenage girl named Anne Frank and her family hiding from the Nazis in their hidden attic in their small home.
I think the best part of the book was when they celebrated Hanukkah while they were hiding.
I think this is the best part of the book because it shows that even if they are hiding from the Nazis, they are all still trying to stay happy and positive during these tragic times.
The diary of anne frank gave me a greater understanding of how many jews were treated and punished during world war two when hitler was in power.
Anne told of her experience and wat she went through when hitler took over her town and nazis started taking families out of their homes.
The diary of anne frank is being written as anne and her family go into hiding above her fathers old warehouse.
I think people of all ages will like this book because it tells a lesson and teaches those of today's generation what people in germany and its surrounding countries went through during the 1940's.
This book(diary) represents the hardships of jewish living during the holocaust.
Since anne wanted to be a writer her book was published by her father.
anne was an amazing writer, and it shows in this book.
She didnt hide any of her emotions, this was clearly stated in the book" i must learn to open up to you because you may be the only one who can understand me while im stuck in here.
this book is clearly amazing and should be given an award.......
It has all of the things a good book longs for and so much more...
Kudos anne frank....
