https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21393526-magonia
I'm dark matter. The universe inside of me is full of something, and science can't even shine a light on it. I feel like I'm mostly made of mysteries. Oh my... Magonia is one hell of a rare novel.Not only does it offer an intriguing blend of reality-infused science fiction and highly-imaginative fantasy, but it is also unlike anything I have ever read before.I've always said that - for me - originality is one of the best and rarest compliments a writer can get. Not "this is the next Hunger Game
Magonia is one hell of a rare novel.Not only does it offer an intriguing blend of reality-infused science fiction and highly-imaginative fantasy, but it is also unlike anything I have ever read before.I've always said that - for me - originality is one of the best and rarest compliments a writer can get.
How unusual it is to read a novel and be taken to places so new, fresh and wonderfully magical.One of my favourite things has always been when authors manage to weave fact and fiction together in order to create a fantasy story with added realism.
I know everyone has dreams of flying, but this isn’t a dream of flying. It’s a dream of floating, and the ocean is not water but wind.  I call it a dream, but it feels realer than my life. Breathe, Lola, breathe!Oh god. What did you do to me, Magonia? How dare play with my emotions… over and over again? You showed me your careless, beautiful, powerful, pitiless and heart-wrenching sides… when I was not prepared for them. Is this how Aza felt, daily, living on Earth, her lungs not being able to
it both felt like a magical realism story and a fantasy one.
It was the kind of book that makes you believe in everything that is happening inside it and brings all of your senses to life, but it nonetheless did contain creatures of multiple sorts and an invisible-to-the-human-eye world surrounded by air.Aza started off as impertinent and know-it-all and judgemental, but her peculiar and sarcastic humor charmed me:
Loved it.The great thing about Aza, you have to know, is that she experienced so much… and it changed her throughout the story.
i did fall pretty hard for the cover, but it takes more than a pretty face to win me over…it has many good qualities: story set in a wholly original fantasy world, families who are supportive and loving that seem realistic rather than idealized, strong imagery and situations that aren't just warmed-over versions of other YA books, romance where the two participants are apart for most of the book, so we don't have to read about all the gazing and fumbling and stammering, debilitating illness written sympathetically and vividly...
The main character's voice is grating on my nerves. So much that I couldn't even get more than 17 pages into this story. While this has a great cover and premise, I just can't keep reading this twaddle. Perhaps if there was a different POV or something I would be able to enjoy it, but it's like listening to a loud tween try too hard for attention.
By no means did I feel like Magonia was a copy of Castle in the Sky. Rather, me comparing a book to a Myazaki movie is pretty much the biggest praise I can give.
Despite the fact, that the plot arch at its very core is your typical YA fantasy story (girl is weak, finds out she isn’t what she thought but that she is in actuality “special” blablabla), Magonia is still unlike anything I’ve ever read before.
This usually never happens to me with books I read for personal enjoyment.
DNF @ 35%Ya know, this book actually has a very interesting premise (which is why I started to read it in the first place), but the immature writing and boring plot had me in tears because what the fuck, boredom hurts. The writing is like listening to my ten year old sister whine about fucking everything in the world. It's so not professional and just plain generic.  "All I've got is { }.""&,&,&.""!!!!""I look at his back. Shoulders = too high.""AZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZAAZA"
DNF @ 35%Ya know, this book actually has a very interesting premise (which is why I started to read it in the first place), but the immature writing and boring plot had me in tears because what the fuck, boredom hurts.
The writing is like listening to my ten year old sister whine about fucking everything in the world.
It's like trying to figure out what the fuck my moody 19 year old sister is trying to say.
Dnfed at 50% .After suffering through a little over half way of this novelThis is like the first time I dnf a book, but guys it was just too much #sorrynotsorryMeet our main character :Aza Rambler … I mean Aza Ray :The story is actually told in like a stream of consciousness type of writing, which sounds really good at first, but I personally think it wasn’t well done at all.
(hide spoiler)]Jason :Another rambler unfortunately, I think he and Aza were equally annoying even though I actually liked him in the begining but the writing style just killed it for me.
It was elegant, magical and absolutely captivating.Reading this book was like floating on a magical, puffy, pink cloud.
I felt like I casually slipped into Aza's mind while reading, and her perspective's such an interesting one, considering her unique condition and odd personality.She also had such an amazing relationship with her best friend and the love of my life, Jason.
Sounds crazy?
Feeling what Aza and Jason felt was just natural with this glorious writing.
Aza, it says, the whistle. Aza, are you out there? It's been a really long time since I've read something so unique. The premise, characters, setting . . . everything was just so refreshing.  Aza Ray, your life is so gigantically not what you thought it was going to be.  I was warned that Magonia might be a little weird but, strangely, I didn't find it so. Maybe because I was forewarned . . . or maybe I'm the weird one and felt right at home reading Magonia.  I'm something else. Something impor
or maybe I'm the weird one and felt right at home reading Magonia.
Jason + AzaI ship it so hard.
If I had started Magonia at night, it's easily a book I could have pulled an all-nighter with (and with little regret the next morning).
I could count on one hand, hell one finger, how many books I've read about a world in the sky like this one.
Like I could look out my window and into the sky and see an army of ships in the distance.
This isn't just Jason and Aza. It's not me racing against death to save her anymore.
First off, this was such a beautiful novel, inside and out. I like the sky. It's rational to me in a way that life isn't. Looking at it doesn't suck the way you might think it would, given all the dying-girl-stares-at-heaven possibilities. I don't think of the sky as any kind of heaven item. I think of it as a bunch of gases and faraway echoes of things that used to be on fire. When I read the first few paragraphs of this book, I initially thought it was the diary of a self-absorbed girl who tho
Looking at it doesn't suck the way you might think it would, given all the dying-girl-stares-at-heaven possibilities.
After finishing the first two chapters, I ate my words and realized that the heroine was actually exploding with a certain kind of wisdom only a mature person who accepted her upcoming death could achieve.
They were present even when they weren't there, because early on, you already witness how big of a mark they put in her life.Overall, this was a beautiful book, and not just because of the cover.
For instance, I would have liked to know some things more about Magonia, by whom is it ruled, or how big it is and how can its system work if all that they have come from Earth, how they developed ships able to fly, why they and the Earthens didn't mingle from the beginning, why some Earthens end up living there...
Instead it's like, down there there is Earth, up there there is Magonia, that's all you need to know.On the other hand, I loved, loved, loved the lungbirds thing.
See more reviews at YA Midnight ReadsIt's been 3.5 weeks since I've read Magonia and since then I have bought this book for 2 people, recommended it to all of my friends, given away a copy as a Twitter giveaway and broken my book buying ban (that only managed to last 3 days) to buy myself the hardcover of the book.
While at first I found it really irrelevant for Jason (Aza Ray's best friend and possibly hopefully something else by the end of the book) to have his own chapters, you soon see why it's so necessary for his voice to be present throughout, and I seriously loved it.
Un război de purtat, o mare presiune pe umerii Azei, o alegere dificilă pe care o are de făcut. Personaje puternice și captivante, care își acceptă cu demnitate povara pe care o au de purtat, care dau dovadă de mult curaj și spirit de sacrificiu. Se poate oare, să avem parte de o pace între două lumi atât de diferite? Magonia și Pământul nu au absolut nimic în comun. Și totuși, atât de multe! 4,5 *Recenzia mea completă o găsiți aici:https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/mag...
Those first 100 pages were well paced, witty, fun - but then the story basically changes completely.
It dragged, I had a hard time connecting with the new world and new characters, and I'm not sure it all came together for me by the end.
It felt like the book didn't have enough time to become what it was trying to be in the second part, and while the middle dragged, the ending felt incredibly rushed.
I zoomed through the beginning, excited about the story, and then struggled through the last 2/3.It was a weird book.
Well, crap. Here I am again, black sheeping my way through a book that everyone and their mom seems to love. I think this is most likely a case of me being the problem as opposed to the book being the problem. I really just didn't get it.There were good parts, don't get me wrong. There was even a time when I was really getting into it! Here's how it went down: The Beginning So, Aza has some mystery illness that no doctor can figure out and that causes her to have breathing issues. That has to be
There were points that I was in tears over Aza and Jason and her sickness, and other spoilery stuff that I won't mention.
I was basically picturing a team mascot.Things in the beginning had moved slow, and then suddenly Aza is a bird person, in this whole new world, and I simply couldn't keep up.
There was a lot of stuff crammed into 320 pages, which is probably why I had a hard time connecting to the bird stuff (well, that and the fact that it was bird people flying through the damn sky on big old ships).
Will Aza choose to stay in Magonia, or with the people she loves back down on earth?First of all, this book has a beautiful cover, but as they say, looks can be deceiving!
Yes, the idea of a world in the sky and ships sailing through the clouds is intriguing, a little reminiscent of the ship scene in the movie Stardust.Before we head to Magonia, we have the 'just BFF's but don't realise we love each other yet' romance between Aza and Jason.
Aza ends up being a lost child of Magonia and can have a bird live inside her chest.
Wholly original, heartbreaking, exciting and intense, MAGONIA is one of the coolest books I've read in years.The story begins with Aza Ray, a girl who, much like Hazel from THE FAULT IN OUR STARS, struggles to breathe.
Aza doesn't ever feel quite right in the world--and things fast-forward, when she sees a real ship, sailing through the sky.Aza's family chalks it up to a hallucination.
But Aza's best friend, Jason, believes that what she saw truly could be real.
And that's the coolest thing about this story.I'm on the "In love" side.
My peers and I were lucky if we could string two cogent sentences together, let alone present verbal dissertations on the meaning of pi.Anyway, once I was able to look past their flowery repartee, I got really into the story.Headley paints a magical and dangerous world.If you enjoyed Magonia, you may also enjoy The Mermaid's Sister or Under the Empyrean Sky. Both are young adult novels and take place in fantasy worlds that are so close to the world we know, but different in surprising ways.
I am lost of words to describe how magical, astonishing, beautiful and original this book was.
I mean, I can say Magonia is beautiful but it is more than that.
It is like all my favorite things are in one place and I am glued to the ground, seeing and feeling them.
Magonia may not be a perfect book but it took me to a wonderful place, a wonderful journey.
And for me it is one of the books that gave me the feeling how fun, enjoyable and euphoric reading is.
Review on its way. Whenever I start writing it, though. Which sadly, I wouldn't hold my breathe.Check out Kimi's review. She says everything I'm thinking a lot more eloquently :DPost-reading:Dude my body was so not ready for the crap-fest. I don't even know what to say. Just one thing. How can we kill trees to print this? Seriously, this is not a book I'd compromise my air supply for. Nuh-uh.Pre-reading:Buddyread with my dear Damon thief, Kimanna, that's Kimi to all you other people!
3.5 starsThis book was okay.
Oh, Magonia, you strange, strange book, it’s going to take me months to decipher you.
Magonia by Maria Dahvana Headley has so many things going for it, I’m not even sure where to begin.
It’s a delightful combination of science fiction, fantasy, and even dystopia, and it easily balances the three, never allowing one to overtake the others.Headley brings us a previously unexplored story of flying ships and sky sailors.
Although it doesn’t seem that way, probably thanks to Headley’s unusual writing style, the pacing is pretty fast and it sometimes doesn’t give us enough time to process.
4.5 ishWow. A beautifully crafted, completely unique, and utterly unforgettable story. Adding to my ever growing list of video reviews that need to be done!
"You hold no horrors for me." I'm not guna lie....this book is weird. Beyond weird. And it is what I would normally say was 'too out there, for me.' But, once again, a little birdie told me how amazing it was and hell, here I am again adding another favorite to my list. I think it's safe to say that no amount of weirdness could have quelled my instant, butterfly-induced reaction to Jason and Aza's heartbreaking friendship from the very beginning of this story. It was instantaneous, the visceral
I think it's safe to say that no amount of weirdness could have quelled my instant, butterfly-induced reaction to Jason and Aza's heartbreaking friendship from the very beginning of this story.
But, this book, breaking all of my carefully placed rules and guidelines, broke the barrier and became an instant-I need to re-read this immediately story, and, for that, I will never forget it.I never thought this would happen.
While Jason and Aza's relationship and the things that happened were enough to counteract the weird, for me, it might not be the same for you.
I was so excited and pumped, I didn't stop to think that I might not like this book as much as I thought I would.
I felt like Aza was just a brat.
If I can't relate to the main character (which I didn't with Aza) then I want to be able to feel like we would be friends.
I didn't feel any of that with Aza. Granted, I did think she got better though out the book but the damage was already done.I did really like the writing though.
Overall, I liked everything about this book except the main character.
Highly creative with magical flying ships and bird people who sing their way through chores, I thought Magonia had all the bare bones for a great novel, but I just didn't care about the characters as I would have liked.
They would ramble way too much to the point where my eyes would glaze over.
Not only does Aza the main character ramble, but Jason her best friend and the other point of view did too.
I'm sure the story would have picked up and I'm sure there's a lot more to be said within Aza's new journey (especially with apparently sexy Dai) but I found it to be too weird for me.
Magonia does have the feeling that some of his book have, like you have stumbled upon something so unique and so strange that you can't understand everything about it.
Sometimes it was too strange, like the author had too many ideas for such a short book, but overall it worked.
If I had to find some flaws I'd say that the ending was really rushed, which is something I didn't like much, and that...sometimes the book did become too strange.
If you're not up to some crazy things then Magonia is not your book.
Why can't more YA books be like this?!)There were moments where I really connected with the emotional intensity of Aza's experiences.
Plummer might get a nod for my favorite female narration this year because her depiction of Aza was spot on.) I know that I want to read more in this world and feel like I'm invested in the characters and their journeys to see where they go from here - so I'm definitely on board for the next book in this series.Overall score: 4/5 stars
It's weird because it was something new to me, because it was unpredictable and because it took me some time to get used to it, but then, when I did, I was reading each word with hurry and fear and attention.
There's Aza and Jason, and they completely owned my heart.
She was just so incredibly different from every character I've ever read about!
-> It is full of new discoveries.-> Magonia ruined me for other fantasy books.
Is a combination of both, but a book that it's unlike everything you've ever read.
How can I read other fantasy books after this?
