https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2588538-red-wind
A dame loses her pearls.
Said dame saves a detective.
Said detective tries to recover those pearls for her.
Then a little dude ends up dead.
A slightly odd couple from West LA gets roped in.
An investigating copper gets duped and then gets sore about it.
I mean, geez louise, there's a lot going on for such a short story.
Red Wind is a fast talkin', fast movin' street-level crime thriller from Raymond Chandler that only comes up short due to it being so dang short.
Seriously, this story could use a few more pages to breathe a bit more.
"Red Wind" is the title of a short story written by Raymond Chandler.
Raymond Chandler is considered by some the father of hard-boiled crime fiction, and "Red Wind" is supposed to be the best of his short stories.
He's the Humphrey Bogart character, Philip Marlowe (The Big Sleep), who can size up a dame as fast as he can bring down a gunman.
"Red Wind" was first published in 1938, in the crime fiction magazine, Black Mask.
No doubt he had been reading them in the late thirties when he started working as an investigator (in Marlowe's city, L.A.!).
BOOK 112 - Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 4HOOK= 2 stars: In the grand tradition of "It was a dark and stormy night," opening, Chandler opts for "There was a desert wind blowing that night." "Writing 101": Never open a story with a weather report.
That said, the story I'm reviewing is titled "Red Wind", so Chandler gets a pass, for a 2-star hook.
Che Chandler sia un maestro indiscusso del genere lo sapevo già, ma finora avevo sempre trascurato i suoi racconti.
Così ho aperto questa raccolta.
Ogni volta che ne terminavo uno, mi dicevo: non si può fare meglio di così.
E poi il racconto successivo mi smentiva.
A volte sbagliarsi è piacevole - e questo vale anche per le trame dei suoi racconti, che ti portano su una falsa pista e ti fanno girare a vuoto, per poi sorprenderti con un colpo di coda finale.
Piccoli giocattoli a molla, architettati alla perfezione.
Sì, ho detto perfezione, perché qui si tratta di Chandler, ragazzi.
e pensare che a me Chandler di solito piace proprio!Raccolta di 6 racconti senza Marlowe e uno con.
Il primo mi è piaciuto, mi stavo leccando i baffi quando ho preso sonno sul secondo e sul terzo, arruffati e noiosetti.
(possibile?
Possibile!) Buono il quarto, ora sono al quinto.
Si sente che sono racconti scritti in epoche diverse, alcuni riusciti meglio altri peggio.
3 stelle perché Chandler è Chandler, e senza lui il mondo sarebbe peggiore ;) Però, azzarola, si può scrivere (o tradurre, sa il diavolo) 69 volte ghigno sogghigno o sghignazzo?
(sono precisa, le ho fatte contare dal kindle) Anche quando, ci metto su i cabasisi, il protagonista tutto faceva fuor che sghignazzare.
The Red Wind: Very pulpy. Very LA. A murder or two, a detective, some clumsy cops and a dame. Chandler once described LA as a "big hard-boiled city with no more personality than a paper cup." His books a hard broiled as well with not a lot of depth but fun.
Nadarzyła się okazja, aby w końcu zacząć poznawać jego twórczość.„Red wind” został przetłumaczony na język polski pod tytułem „ Gorący wiatr”.
Tam też właśnie dzieje się akcja tej książki.
Nasz bohater, detektyw pomaga tajemniczej kobiecie, we własnym mieszkaniu pozwala jej się ukryć, przy tym jednak sprowadza na siebie wielkie problemy.
Coś po trochę z „Wielkiego Gatsbiego” jest w tej książce, akcja toczy się w latach 20tych lub 30tych w Stanach Zjednoczonych w czasach tak zwanego "jazz age'u".
Nasz bohater to samotnik, pustelnik, dżentelmen gotowy bezinteresownie pomoc obcej kobiecie w trudnej sytuacji.Wielkie pieniądze, gangsterzy, bogaci ludzie samotny prywatny detektyw oraz kalifornijski ciepły wiatr to klimat tej książki.
Hardboiled storiesIn questi racconti gli spigoli Hardboiled sono più marcati e diretti rispetto ad altre letture Chandleriane in cui l'ironia stempera le situazioni, e seppur lontano dalle vette dell'autore, restano una godibile testimonianza di molte di quelle caratteristiche che hanno reso eterno il genere.
Chandler è sempre Chandler!Non è il migliore dei libri di Chandler (che secondo me è "Il lungo addio") ma è pur sembre una piacevolissima lettura.Ed ogni tanto ci trovate anche qualche meravigliosa battuta tipiche di Chandler.
onlr Red Wind. Audio book
Doch urplötzlich wird er Zeuge eines völlig überraschenden Mordes: Ein offenbar völlig Betrunkener erschießt einen Gast, der kurz zuvor hereinkam und nach einer Frau suchte, und flüchtet unerkannt.
Mit seiner Aussage bei der Polizei wäre die Sache nun eigentlich für Dalmas erledigt, doch als er sich auf den Heimweg macht, steht ihm plötzlich die gesuchte Frau gegenüber.
Er nimmt sich ihrer an und kurz darauf - rettet sie ihm sein Leben.
Aus Dankbarkeit macht er sich für sie auf die Suche nach einem Gegenstand, mit dem sie von dem kurz zuvor Ermordeten erpresst wurde.
Non è mai un buon segno, mentre leggi un libro, vedere la propria concentrazione evaporare tra le righe e il pensiero volarsene altrove.Ed è ancora peggio, una volta riposto il libro sullo scaffale, realizzare di ricordarsi solo in parte ciò che si è appena letto.Eppure questo è il risultato della lettura di “Vento Rosso” di Raymond Chandler, rimastomi impresso più per la noia provata, che per le storie di duri, pupe e piombo bollente del padre del pulp.
Non tutto è da buttare, però.
I really like Raymond Chandler...
And while I didn't actually read this particular volume, I did read all 5 of this book's stories in my Library of America edition of Chandler's "Early Years".
While "Red Wind" has the best opening paragraph you'll ever read in a short story, the story itself wasn't the best of the five.
This latter story has a Hitchcock flavor to it.
I love Chandler and his hard-boiled gumshoe vernacular.
The stories are violent and entertaining.
I definitely like hearing about California of the '30s.
If you like crime and action, then this book is recommended.
But read them just to experience Raymond Chandler.
Actually, I read this in high school and do not remember where.
I re-read it last year to support a paper for English that I had to write on my own haiku.
Since the poem was about the Santa Anas (the Red Wind) of my native Los Angeles and it's been a few years since I went home, I googled it and found it online  here.
Try it, not even geography professors can resist quoting from Red Wind.
And it helped me get an A from my professor.
I have been a great Chandler fan since my teenage and have several bookcases of the different titles and edition.
However, if I am to choose just one to list here, it has to be Red Wind.
A super title story supported by other vg ones.
Found my first copy at a bootfair in 1982 ...
Subsequently came across other copies of the first edition.
Would also point you to the 1940s radio play of Red Wind, which is generally available and of quite good reproduction.Here is a link to my full review on You Tubehttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ztx5ks...
"Red Wind" is a wonderful story, filled with incredible dialogue, vivid description and memorable characters. It's definitely from that detective noire genre and the language will take you back to the '40s & '50s, but it never feels dated to me. Just tough, gentle and moody, all at the same time. This is the third time I've read it. I appreciate it anew, and get something new out of it, every time. Thanks to Richard Battin for turning me on to it in the first place.
Raymond Chandler read by Eliot Gould. Wonderful! Sometimes I laughed out loud with sheer pleasure at the way Chandler uses the language.
Red Wind was my Hardboiled fiction read. The dialogue, the prose, the aesthetic of this story is so exciting. the one liners, from a dead era (there has to be a revival of this prose style!)Neo-Hardboiled fiction anyone?
Red Wind was a fabulous read. It was my first introduction to Raymond Chandler and the pulp/mystery/Black Mask way of writing. I was thoroughly impressed with how well he kept me on my toes and the intertwining messages of violence, passion, and mystery. Chandler is one of a kind!
have only read 'Red Wind' and none of the other stories, but I loved it. Started strong, I could hear the lonely sax and see the dark, melancholy cast of characters. Noir at it's finest.
This was an e-book we listened to while driving to/from Entiat. It was OK - the right length for a trip over.
Raymond Chandler's prose is awesome. I have loved everything I read of his so far.
One of the most wonderful first paragraphs I have ever read.
Very 1940s - 50s LA detective noir... Fun - if you're into that kind of thing. Also really fun to hear about the geography of LA back then.
The template for all modern gumshoe literature. Plus: 'Red Wind' uses Southern California's Devil Winds as a supporting character. The Santa Anas can never have enough ink.Cheers.
Una raccolta di racconti per avvicinarsi al mondo dell'hard-boiledhttp://libri-letti.blogspot.it/2013/1...
