https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298137.Mao_s_Last_Dancer
I felt much of it read as a young adult book.
It quite simply feels as if it is written for children, particularly for potential young dancers, to encourage them, to give them a hero in whose footsteps they can follow.
If this book is to be judged as a book for young adults, than I would give it four stars.
It is wrong to simply remove historical facts and in this manner reclassify a book.
I very much admire what he has accomplished, but my stars are for the book, not the person.
It was ok. There were interesting parts and humorous parts, but a bit too meandering for my taste. Some of it was repetitive as the author seemed to really want to get certain points across.
He would tell us about how his family struggled to survive during the war, and how Communism had ruined the country so that everyone was poor.
He would tell us harrowing tales of poverty and oppression.Then, I grew up and studied the Korean War and realized that my dad wasn't even in North Korea at that time.
In Communist China, all the Li family had was each other.
It's the tale of a man, his victory over oppression and poverty, and how his family's love for him made that all possible.
I read this book a long time before joining Goodreads and writing reviews, so I didn't add anything here except my rating.I do remember that I enjoyed (if you can enjoy such) reading about the cultural demands that were placed on those people. He truly was a brave young man!I love historical and cultural books about Asia and Asian people.
What an inspirational and touching book! My heart soared and I shed some tears of happiness about Li Cunxin's story, a peasant boy who lived in poverty during Chairman Mao's rule. With hard work, determination and perseverance, he goes on to achieve his wildest dreams as one of the greatest ballet dancers of all time.Full review on Happy Indulgence Books.
It was an interesting book. I knew so little about Chinese culture when I read this book. The author told his life story through vivid detail imagery. He began with his parents wedding, the birth of his brothers and himself, poverty, government, and traditions. His love for ballet is evident on every page.
It's such a stark contrast to the life he ends up living in the West and I so enjoyed reading about all the vast differences he found between the two countries and cultures.The writing about China during that period was certainly interesting, particularly from the perception of someone who lived through it.
The author showed great tenacity and determination in perfecting his dancing and the blood, sweat and tears that went with it.This is an inspiring and touching book which gives you a look into a peasant's life in communist China and that of a ballet dancer.
On a more personal level, the author shows a lot of raw emotion (particularly for his family), determination and inner strength.
I started off unimpressed by this book; daily life in China during the Mao years is sad, yes, but familiar to anyone who has read anything set in that era.
However once he was plucked away from his family and started his education proper the book really began; Li as an author found his voice around this part of the book and it was around this time that I decided to continue reading (I had been toying with the idea of giving up).
His sense of guilt is understandable and he never seemed to take his fortune for granted.As always the look at Chinese culture is interesting; the importance of family, respect for elders and the great delusion of communism.
Li Cunxin was the 6th of 7 sons born to a poor family in rural China.
When Chairman and Madame Mao started their "cultural revolution" and decided to revive the Peking Dance Academy, they sent representatives throughout the country to find promising musical and artistic talent specifically from the children of peasants, workers, and soldiers.
Li was chosen at age 11, taken from his family, and sent to the "big city" for rigorous training and indoctrination.
Though occasionally sentimental, it's a fascinating story of cultural, artistic, and political discovery - whether you're a ballet fan or not!
November book group choice.
Vicky recommended the book.
Many reasons to really like this book.
“Mango is the most wonderful fruit with the most unique taste… Admire the unique shape, notice the colour, enjoy the smell.
Feel the weight, cut the skin and savour the fragrance.
Then comes the ultimate satisfaction, the pulp.” Chinese fables:The Frog in the Well ("You can only see the world above you through the size of the well.
The Emperor and the Cricket The Millet Dream (Fragrance of the poor soup inspired dreams of success.
Dreams inspire but, "Great things don't come easily."The Archer (Importance of keeping ones promises.)There are no shortcuts.
I enjoyed reading the wedding customs of his mother and father - things that sound a little bit tacky in our Western culture (e.g. at the wedding, the bride and groom share a bowl of “open your heart” noodles), but which actually might serve a purpose to make the couple stop and think about the life they will share together.Even after he started dancing, Li Cunxin’s life was still difficult - physically demanding both in Beijing and in the States.
As well as all the other great things about our state!4.5★
Li Cunxin overcomes life's challenges and through sheer discipline, drive and the motivation to break through the shackles of communism, does just that.
Despite the challenging conditions of everyday life, his parents taught him the values and principles that became his life compass as he overcame the harsh obstacles and struggles of Mao's regime, and against all odds became an international ballet dancer in the western world.
A story of sacrifice and success, endurance and emotion, of family and friendship, Mao's Last Dancer is a contrast of two worlds, simply told but yet moving and motivating.
I read this book in a little under 24 hours, almost unable to put it down.
How he deals with the never-ending push to be better, better, best within the world of ballet, broken dreams of love and family and his "survivor's guilt" regarding his estranged family back in China makes for a wonderful read.
This book made me laugh, made me cry, made me think hard about my own privilege and what it means to live in America...and what it means to have the freedom to determine my own destiny.
A Goodreads friend had seen the film and recommended it so I watched the DVD first and highly recommend it both for the dramatic story and the beautiful dancing (Li Cunxin is played in the movie by a dancer) I liked it so much I went to the library and got book.
There are more elegantly written memoirs, but the story is riveting, including the role the elder George and Mrs. Bush played in his life (Barbara Bush was a patron of the Houston Ballet).
Wow, this was such an amazing read! It inspired me so much! It was the perfect mixture between ballet and history. I would highly recommend it!
A simple and yet beautiful memoir of a ballet dancer, who was taken from his peasant classed family as a young 11 year old boy in Qingdao, and brought to Beijing, to attend a dance school that received the patronage of Madam Mao Tze Dong.Cunxin takes us through his childhood, growing up as one of 7 sons of poor peasant family during China's Cultural Revolution.
His descriptions of his family was nothing short of touching in the depth of love that their parents showed each other and their children.When he's selected among the many students in his school to attend the illustrious dance school in Beijing, he faced loneliness and homesickness for the initial years at the school.
Li Cunxin provides anecdotes from his childhood that characterizes Mao's philosophy.
The entire narrative runs along with changes that is taking place in China under Mao's rule and Madam Mao's obsession with art and culture.He undergoes struggles, as anticipated, and comes off as a better student.
He visits America as an exchange student and his life changes from that point onward.
Li Cunxin works hard, carries the teachings his parents taught him (pride), loves his family, adores his friends and continues to be humble.
Its his humility and hard work that takes makes him famous.
This is a true story of a real person who is still alive and riveted me because he was growing up when I was and living this amazingly different life over there in China.
The way Cunxin uses drive and discipline to escape his parent's fate and sheer determination to get him there, is extremely inspiring and frankly, makes me feel inadequate in my response to difficulty!
It's a strong and true tale and perhaps told with a bit of sentimentality, or so I thought at first (syrupy perhaps?), but in the end Cunxin's sincerity comes through and makes this a truly inspiring read.
This is not the type of book I normally pick up, but after reading the first through chapters through my email book club, I requested it from the library.
Tim thought it was an unusual choice for me so he picked it up and started reading the middle of the book, as he is wont to do.
He told me I would like it and find it fascinating.
Everything else was fascinating.
I highly recommend it, even if it's not the kind of thing you normally read.
This book is written in a simple style, yet is still incredibly inspiring and thought provoking with its glimpses into communism in China and the stark differences with the west.
It's not often a book can bring tears to my eyes, but this managed it on more than one occasion!
You don't have to be a fan of dance or ballet to enjoy this book, although being a ballet fan I may be a little biased in how much I loved this book, but I would recommend this to anybody to read.
I saw the movie first and I found the book just as fascinating.
The dept of poverty that Li came from and his luck to be chosen and became a dancer meant the stars were lined up for his success in the world.
The dedication that Li gave to dancing when he realized it was his way out of poverty, and the continued level of training he gave to dance after his defection to the states allowed his to be the best.
I still think the movie of this book was one of the best seen this year.
I recommend the movie as much as the book so do one or the other.
I got this book from a friend --- when he brought it back to me from Australia. My friend was leading a 'trading' workshop, and this author was in his course. The book was sooooooooo good. I never saw the movie. Has anyone? You, Susan?
A few of us found that the movie missed some of the messages that stood out for each of us individually in the telling of the story, so whilst the movie was ok, I recommend reading the book first!I listened to the audio version of this book, and credit must go to Paul English for his wonderful narration – I really appreciated his accurate pronunciation of the many Chinese names, which would have made me flounder in the printed version.All in all, Mao’s Last Dancer was an interesting and humbling read that will appeal to anyone looking for inspiration and hope.
Containing fascinating historical details of life under Mao, a strong armchair component, and hidden messages in its pages that will mean different things to individual readers, Mao’s Last Dancer made for a perfect bookclub read.3.5 stars *blog*  *facebook*  *instagram*
There seemed many extraordinary personal stories but my history knowledge was challenged immediately by the first paragraph of the first chapter, “Now, a year after the end of that war, the village was controlled by one of the peasant communes that had been set up throughout the countryside by China’s central communist government”.In 1946, the author’s parents were living in the suburb of Qingdao, about 20 km from city.
It is a humiliation to Beijing Dance Academy if it is called Madam Mao’s, because she shut down the previous dance school, twisted the ballet, and was in prison when the school got the new name.In chapter thirteen, the author vividly recounted the journey to Tiananmen Square where Mao appeared on the podium of the Gate Heavenly Peace meeting millions of people.
Such an inspiring non-fiction book.
He fights through many barriers until at last he succeeds what he wants.
I really admire how he doesn't stop what his doing, and continue to try many new ways to succeed what he wants.
Nothing is impossible.
I think he gets today also a great thank to his inspirational teachers as well like Teacher Xiao, he taught him so many things, and indirectly taught me too!
Sometimes, I thought it would be better to start things over but Li Cunxin is right, there's only one life to live.
When I lived in Houston I loved going to see their world-class ballet company perform, and Li Cunxin was one of my favorite dancers, so I was eager to read his autobiograghy. The book that I received from Amazon was the "Young Reader's Edition" and obviously simplified and shortened by about half from the original 480 pages. But it held my interest throughout, and I would love to read the adult version.
I'm just putting this down for now because I left it at home for the summer....not because I don't love it!
What a wonderful book! I cannot believe what some people endure. I just learned this was made into a movie and I look forward to seeing the adaptation. Very well written.
Most boring book ever.
They struggled for food daily, and yet tried to keep the basic traditions of Chinese life, including honoring ancestors, celebrating the lunar new year, and family loyalty.In school he was indoctrinated into being a dedicated Maoist and enemy of capitalist dogs.
While other students would practice two or three times a day, Li pushed himself through five daily practice sessions, doing so many attempted pirouettes that he created a dent in the wooden rehearsal floor.Eventually, under more lenient Chinese rule, he was allowed to travel to Houston to  study western dance.
Li was coaxed by loving parents, along with a few more lenient and supportive teachers, to eventually become one of the foremost dancers of his time.
