https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1130098.The_Black_Death
It is a grievous ornament that breaks out in a rash.
- Jeuan Gethin Philip Ziegler penned a spectacular survey of the 14th century disaster which could've flipped the human lights off permanently.
Ziegler also prodded me again to finally read Bocaccio.
What did happen during that terrible pestilence of 1348 and 1349?
Feudalism continued its shuffle off-stage, conditions may have improved for peasants.
Those who concretely link the Plague with Peasants Rebellions and the Reformation are taking shortcuts, which is understandable.
Ziegler's work is one of conjecture and doubt.
I suppose the wisdom of the Black Death is that Shit Happens.
The chapter he wrote on a fictional village - based on the source data and his own research - on how the disease arrived, the fear it invoked and the speed with which it gripped the villagers and ended so many lives was also good.Commentary and specific chapters on the Black Death's impact on labour, feudal life and agriculture and those on the standing and the people's relationships with the Church during and after were also informative too.Conclusions on the impacts and linkages to changes in feudal laws, the Peasants' Revolt, the reformation etc are also covered.
Possibly the most readable account of the plague that ravaged Asia and Europe in the 14th century. The varied horrors described by Ziegler stand as the closest humanity has come to a real world apocalypse, the most remarkable feature of which was the fact that anything resembling a functioning society was left by the time it ended. As enlightening as it is frightening, and a valuable reminder that our tenure on this planet is not as permanent as we like to think it is.
Not just where it came from (though this, too, is touched on) but why Europe was so ripe for the picking and why the disease promulgated so quickly in an era where news traveled no more swiftly than a horse.The vocabulary can be a bit daunting for the uninitiated and the author's frequent use of foreign phrases is common for the type of work, but a trifle irritating for those of us that don't speak French, Italian, or Latin.
Despite this, the prose is excellent and draws you into the story quickly and thoroughly.
Ziegler admits in the introduction that he has concentrated more on England in an attempt to confine the subject to a manageable length but I suspect it's also partly because he is English himself and he was writing predominately for an English audience.The speed with which the Black Death spread across Europe is amazing (roughly from 1347 to 1350) and must have been truly shocking for everyone caught up in it.
It is a grievous thing that they should be on a fair skin.In the end the plague killed about a third of the population of Europe; and there were further plagues to come in the fourteenth century, though none were as violent as the Black Death.
It has a lot of great information in it, but reading it in a non scholarly way, I'm rating it on interest-holding, and only some parts/chapters held my interest.
The value in this book is certainly giving information.
I recommend this book to people seriously interested in the Black Death in a scholarly way.
He will make sure you know that most data concerning the Black Death are probable, not positive.
For a more vivid, fluid, and interesting account of the Black Death, I recommend The Great Mortality, which includes fewer numbers and is told in a more entertaining voice.
****.This is a fascinating history on the Black Death between 1347 to 1350, primarily in Europe and England.
The first issue, 1969, came under fire by a group of history scholars – primarily because the author wrote one chapter that featured a fictional village in England where he could better represent the effects of the plague using examples drawn from his mass of data.
This author estimates that this particular siege of plague killed off about one-third of the population of Europe.
I personally think that his use of this fictional village provided a better understanding of the plague and its aftermaths than tables and tables of data.
But as I said, it still has its place in the Plague literature - and the Anglo-centric focus is excusable given the embarrassment of riches this country possesses in the way of surviving medieval archives comparable to countries on the continent.Philip Ziegler is a biographer, not a medievalist, as himself states from the outset - but for a non-historian, for the general interested reader, that is not necessarily a bad thing.
Ziegler takes a relatively chronological approach, tracing the spread of the Black Death from its roots somewhere in Asia, through the Mediterranean and on into continental Europe, focusing particularly on Italy, Germany, France, and most particularly on England.
As a read......the repetitivity the repetitivity of the first half of the the book iss tedious.
That is to say, much is repeated in the course of the Black Plague and therefore, in saying as much in his book titled The Black Death, Ziegler (who wrote The Black Death in the 60s) repeats himself, albeit necessarily, by comprehensively covering the bubonic plague in Europe.
The book becomes even more repetitive as it covers the plague in Great Britain - which takes up about a quarter of the the piece.On the up and up I'd say that the last half of the book, those sections detailing or speculating (what more can a historian do after all?) on the impact of the plague on Europe were not so very tiresomely tedious in their tedious tiresome repetitiveness.
Excellent coverage of the plague and its various effects, both physical and mental. The ending chapters about how it affected the mindset of the medieval people were the highlight of the book, particularly the relationship with the church. The endless chapters about each separate area of England was a little tedious, though given the fact that England provides the best preserved records makes this understandable. The historical-fiction chapter about life in a village made me think of Willis' Domesday Book favorably.
What a great book. I would have given it four starts, but I could only take so much death! Ziegler tells a fascinating story of not only the cause and facts of the plague traveling through Europe, but he tells you so much about emotional impact of the plague as well. I picked this up after Bill Bryson mentioned he had been reading it while traveling through Europe. One more reason to love Bill Bryson!
There is also a discussion of how the plague changed the economy and the social structure in England at the time.It appears that about a third of the population of England was carried off by this plague, although its severity varied from one part of the country to another.There were some facts mentioned in this history that I had not encountered in other accounts of the plague.
But this history mentions an apparent third type of plague – the Septicemic plague which, again, was almost always fatal, and which caused death in a day or less (as opposed to two days for the Pneumonic plague and about five days for the Bubonic plague).There was also a discussion of the methods of transmitting the plague.
One of the recommended readings for the Learning Company's course on the Black Death was this analysis of that plaque by this esteemed British historian.
The Black Death of 1348 was one of the great and possibly understated event in Western History.
There is a good discussion of the change in the sociology of religion in this work as well as an extensive examination of the economic impact as the Plaque raced through Europe leaving workers in a favorable position as their numbers shrank.
It is almost impossible to imagine living through a crisis such as this, without the benefit of science to explain what was happening!
This is an excellent survey of an incredibly important but often overlooked aspect of the Middle Ages.
Ziegler focuses primarily on how the plague effected on Europe and especially England.
He goes country by country following death's steady progress across the land.
Sometimes he can get a bit dry, but he spices his statistical/historical account with random tidbits that are just great to read (like the one day priest, the guy dumping his sewage in his neighbors basement, medieval aphrodisiacs, etc) Overall, I enjoyed the book but if you aren't already interested in medieval history it is probably one you would want to pass on.
From a microbiologist great reading!There have been numerous outbreaks of the plague, throughout history, although the plague of 1347 - 1351, completely changed the complexion of the European economy. In an agrarian society, workers were “valued” and they subsequently received more for their labors! Like, hey King, pay me more or I’ll go somewhere else (think the very beginning of collective bargaining). Additionally, there were whole villages, that had been decimated/abandoned, by the plague. My question is, “who is going to live there”? Not me, especially when the plague killed all my friends.

This is a really interesting read, but from a non-scholarly perspective, at times it can be quite dry and repetitive. There's a particularly brilliant chapter where Ziegler creates a model village and goes through an imaginary scenario where the plague arrives and departs - I wanted more of that! If you are writing on the Black Death this is an invaluable source, but otherwise, it can be a bit heavy going.
Very interesting.This author had the gift of making a subject interesting. His writing style was witty and conversational, but backed up with facts and research.I'm not ashamed to say that I cried a little at the end of the chapter about the plague in a medieval village - poor Roger Tyler!Seriously, though, this book is a great work about the Black Death, its spread and effects, and manages to be both informative and interesting.
Parts of this were extremely engaging, on the whole it is well researched and presented.... but the constant statistics of parishes and tax-payers were boring and so repetitive I skimmed them without much interest. It would have perhaps been better to include a comprehensive statistics as an appendix near the end, instead of lacing the text with it.
The fascinating story of the origins of the bubonic plague epidemic that swept across Europe and the British Isles in the mid-14th century. Between a fourth to a half of the population is believed to have died as a result, with all kinds of consequences, social and economic and cultural. In our own time, it would be comparable to a nuclear war.
Black Death is an excellent summary of, well, the Black Death. The author collected and organized information in an informative, logical, and readable manner. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is a history enthusiast or wants to learn about the plague and does not know where to begin.
This text was interesting in some ways, but I found it quite repetitive, especially in terms of telling me that it wouldn't tell me things to avoid repetition. The first few chapters are a great indication of the rest of the book - if you enjoyed them, keep going. If not, stop while you're ahead.
An amazing history of the Black Death as it swept across Europe for the first time. This book makes it possible for the reader to imagine where, suddenly, one out of every four people began dying horrible, swift, and painful deaths. A fascinating read.
Read the reviewAlthough this read was quick and easy to understand, most of the information was somewhat of a bore. Ziegler's The Black Death is a good source of information for those of you who want to learn about how different sectors of society reacted to the plague.
Interesting (albeit, sometimes dry). This is very much a "facts and figures" book, but certainly a comprehensive study of not only the mechanics of how the disease spread, but the further repercussions for things like economics, education and psyche.
eh, it's a decent overview and i'll keep it around but it is showing its age, i think
I'm pretty sure I've read this before. Or something by the same author that is extremely similar. It was still fascinating.
A quick overview of the reaches, causes and locations of the plague. A great starting point for narrowing down research to specific locations.
And many people welcomed the Great Fire of 1666: at least it put an end to the plague.There's evidence, not cited by this author, that the 14th-17th century plagues in (mostly) Eurasia were (a) not virgin-soil epidemics (such would have killed as many as 90% of the public, yet most accounts figure the 'Black Death' casualties at less than 70%), and (b) considered uniquely bad because they were well-documented.For example, some estimates put the population of North and South America at about thirty million in 1500 (early explorer accounts say that there were thorpes (the explorers' accounts called them 'villages', but there were no villas) on the banks of the Amazon so close together that you could shoot an arrow from one community into another).
Actually, I should have said three."The Black Death" is a non-scholarly treatment of the 14th century plague, which began in the Orient and reached all the way across the earth to England.
Although I'm certainly no expert on the subject, I think reading this book along with Daniel Defoe's masterpiece of fiction, "A Journal of the Plague Year," gives the reader a lot of information in a readable, humanistic style.
Although Ziegler writes about the plague in the 1300s and Defoe's book is set in the 1600s, they read like bookends to the same phenomenon.In addition to providing an excellent overview of the plague, there are lots of little nuggets to be found in this book.
