https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564536.Sharpe_s_Siege
This for me was perhaps the best of the six I’ve read from the 22 that feature Richard Sharpe, the brilliant and sardonic hero of a rifle brigade in Wellington’s forces during the Napoleanic Wars.
He does cover the big picture, but from Sharpe’s jaundiced eye:God only knows why politicians resorted to soldiers as a final instrument of policy; it was like wagering on a cockfight to decide the fate of empires.As usual, Sharpe, now a major, succeeds with impossible tasks due to his ability to lead his men and to outsmart the enemy with his verve and unpredictable craft.
А тази на англичаните с французите е била стотици години, с кратки прекъсвания от несигурни примирия.
Цели поколения не са знаели нщо друго освен войната, много от най-добрите и храбри младежи са губели рано и безсмислено живота си.Шарп е над двайсет години в армията и почти всяка година участва в множество кампании и сражения.
Болестите са сташен бич, не е имало ваксини и модерни лекарства да спасят заболелите...Планирана е дръзка авантюра - с помощта на флота да се направи десант, да се овладее форт и да се вдигне бунт срещу Наполеон в Бордо.Шарп трябва да води сухоземната операция и какато винаги, нещата безнадежно се объркват след долно предателство...Вътрешни и външни врагове се надпреварват за кожата му, която обаче той няма намерение да даде даром.Чудесно написана и увлекателна до самия и край!
Sharpe's back to a small battlefield defending a coastal fort. Once again, he's proved a good soldier and bad politician, as he's being used by people who manipulate him to reach their own goals. Though Sharpe is successful in battle, he barely escapes the political entanglement. It's unclear whether being a newly wed to a beautiful woman or surviving such a long war makes him more pensive and afraid. Cornwell spends a lot of time with Sharpe's inner thoughts and we get a rather rare glimpse into the inner working of his soul.
Next to the Patrick O'Brian authored Aubrey/Maturin series this is the best set of stories covering the Napoleonic wars that I have read.
It is also one of the best historical fiction series I've run across.This story, taking place in 1814, details an incursion into France near Bordeaux, a joint venture between the British Army and the Royal Navy.
Nevertheless, this book like most of the others in the series is a delight to read.
I have now completed eleven of the 21 books in this series.This adventure has Sharpe off to help the Navy capture a French fort. It's supposedly lightly defended ramparts hold more trouble than Sharpe can possibly imagine (even if the reader knows) and with the help of Harper and some handy Americans, Share just may be able to outwit Ducos again. Predictable, enjoyable and entertaining.
Highly enjoyable. Love all the books in this series. Even read out of order, they always deliver a stirring account of Sharpe's heroics in battle or under siege, in this case, by a French general who's been duped into thinking Sharpe's marooned men are worth attacking to take a coastal fort back from British.
Sharpe's soldierly duties always come first however, and here he is drafted into helping the Royal Navy on a mission to possibly assist in Bordeaux turning against the French Empire in a stroke that could end the Napoleonic War. Anyone who knows Sharpe (or European history) will know this doesn't happen, and instead Sharpe will end up being caught in a trap left by the French intelligence officer Ducot, who is making yet another appearance, rivaling Obadiah Hakeswill's run as a villain.The title of the book gives away that there will be a siege, though Cornwell pulls out all the stops in making it more intense and creative than similar battles in earlier books.
I would have given Sharpe's Siege a 4 if it had not been for the effects of his impetuous marriage.
In this and the last book I read, several characters have commented that marriage weakens a soldier and this appears to be true in Sharpe's case.
While his wife seems intelligent and should be an asset, Sharpe is distracted by her and given to maudlin introspection.
Given his low-born status, his actions should be expected to be punished, but they have not been.
Overall the book is a quick, interesting read.
Worth reading for Sharpe fans.
Much is fictional, including the fort that Sharpe defends, but the treatment of the civilians by the British is respectful and they pay for all they take, thus not rousing the civilian population into guerrillas, as what happened in Spain and Portugal in response to the pillage and rape of the French.
British turn east to attack Toulouse rather than head north.Sharpe's mission has seemed simple: capture a small unguarded French coastal fort, cripple Napoleon's supply lines, and retreat across the sea.
This was a story where Richard Sharpe had to deal with misinformation, lack of information and officers who were more interested in the glory that would follow the war than they were with actually fighting. Against ridiculous odds, Sharpe out-fights and out-wits his French enemies. This was another great example of Bernard Cornwell’s mastery of bringing the sights, sounds, smells, tastes and textures of war alIve for the reader. My only regret is that there aren’t many of the Sharpe stories left for me to read.
I have become a big fan of this series on audiobooks -- they are fast moving, good strongly drawn characters, lots of action, and an excellent narrator. And I like the historical settings, too, of course. This one has Sharpe leading a small group of Riflemen and British Marines on a reconnaissance mission in southern France. Liked the American character & his ship that turned out to play a pivotal role in Sharpe's victory.
Sharpe gets stranded behind enemy lines by a combination of traitorous perfidy, bad weather, and French scheming. Being Sharpe of course he doesn't just give up. Instead he defends a broken-down castle against all odds, using means both fair and foul, and ultimately escapes with the unlikely aid of the American Navy. This one I think drifts pretty far from the actual Napoleonic Wars history, but it was still rollicking good fun.
The newly-married Major Richard Sharpe, RSM Harper, a unit of Marines, and "Sweet" William Frederickson with his riflemen find themselves under siege in a French fortress. I love all of Cornwell's characters, but Frederickson is a particularly good one, and I love any appearance by Sharpe's sworn enemy, French spymaster Pierre Ducos. Both feature in Sharpe's Siege, and it's a fantastic read.
A bit more introspection and morose inner monologing than I like from a normally stoic Sharpe, but all in all a fine continuation of the series, although the absence of Wellington and Hogan as characters is noticeable, and unless the next volume starts with some repercussions for Sharpe's actions in the coda I might downgrade my rating.
Absolute barnstormerThis book has it all. Excellent historical reference, thorough characterisation, fast moving plot and insight into the dreadful conditions of the working class soldiers lives before they joined up. Loved it
A fun (well, except for the parts about Napoleonic surgery or dying of easily cured illnesses), well-written adventure story. My first Sharpe novel so I can't comment on whether or not it's better or worse than the others, but for being what it is the writing is very good.
Sharp's trapped behind enemy lines, betrayed by the British navy and with arch nemesis Ducos out for revenge.How will he survive!!!!
Not the best Sharpe, but enjoyable. Worried about Jane along with him. He doesn't have the best luck with his loves, and I really like Jane.
A clear case of, and explanation of PTSD in one slim volume.
One of the better of the Sharpe series. Somewhat predictable, but well written and hard to put down
200 vs 2000
Another great Sharpe book! Lots of action, very little romance.
For my money, one of the weaker of Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe books, with this one providing only the bare outline for the episode of the 90s TV series of the same name.It's early 1814, and Wellington is just beginning to invade France.
before he does so, however, Sharpe, Harper, Frederickson and a small contingent of men are sent to aid the Royal Navy in the capture of an enemy fort that is behind enemy lines.
However (being a typical Sharpe novel), things go awry and Sharpe and co soon find themselves having to defend that very fort against a vastly numerically superior foe when they are abandoned by the Navy, who believe that they have been captured...
In a diversion from the main invasion of France, Sharpe's Siege has the protagonist Richard Sharpe taken from his beloved South Essex regiment and sent on a dangerous mission, to assist the navy in capturing a fortress on the French coast and weakening the enemy's supply lines by raiding their highways.
Abandoned by his allies, and with the fortresses defences stripped away, Sharpe and a rifle company are forced to endure the onslaught of an entire French army.
Alas for Sharpe, he is a pawn twice over; he has been invited to join the raid only so the bumbling generals in charge of it will have hope of victory, or at the very least a good scapegoat – and the generals themselves are operating on suspect intelligence fed to them by French counterintelligence mastermind, Pierre Ducos.
Sharpe’s Siege distinguishes itself from many other Sharpe novels in that the military action is wholly fabricated; the raid he participates in never took place.
They're behind enemy lines and over a hundred miles from help.Sharpe starts innovating and coming up with creative ways to improve the situation, but the gap is too wide to balance the fight.
You can't believe that Cornwell will kill Sharpe or allow him to be captured in this context, and I found myself gritting my teeth that a "typical" victory would come.
Sharpe comes up with a staggeringly brilliant solution to the problem that had been sitting available to the reader and the vaguest notion of which hadn't even crossed my mind.
It's quite interesting to see how Sharpe has developed and to learn of who he is now.
I'm still saddened by Hogan's death, because Sharpe needs all the friends he can get.
I'm going to be getting towards the end of the Sharpe series.
I've loved these books, been swept away in the adventure, the humour, the conspiracies and the excitement.
In Sharpe and who he has become - a thug dragged up from the gutters to become a hero and a leader.At the end of Sharpe's Siege, I couldn't help but feel how tired Sharpe is from it all.
Sharpe, as always, likes the idea of love.
which suddenly makes 2000 against 200 not look that impressive any more and if Sharpe lost a quarter of his men, the same must be true for the French with losses probably somewhere in the range of 300 to 350 men unable to continue the fight.
another defense like the first column's attack could easily have meant 600 or more dead and wounded on the french side...
Costs that even a sneaky little bastard like Ducos must have problems to justify in his reports back to his command...
Still, SIEGE is Cornwell's favourite Sharpe book and having just finished it, I can see why.It's thoroughly exciting, superbly written and, while I can't pick a #1 in this exceptional series of books, it's definitely among the top five.
The kind of book that hooks you and keeps you reading long after you should be asleep.Siege stories have always been my very favourite type of book - there's just something about the situation, whether the protagonists are besieged or besiegers, that grips me.
The climatic siege in this book is exceptionally written and full of the kind of ingenuity that Cornwell allows his hero and which makes him a cut above the rest.
#18 in the Richard Sharpe series.[return][return]Back with Wellington s army, which is bogged down in southwest France, Sharpe is ordered on a mission, led by an ambitious captain of the Royal Navy, to capture a supposedly weakly-defended French coastal fort, cut Napoleon s supply lines, and assist in inciting the residents of Bordeaux to rise against Napoleon.[return][return]Naturally, nothing works out as planned.
After taking the fort, it is attacked by a heavy French force, and Sharpe is forced to escape via the good graces of an American privateer captain.
