https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234489.The_Uplift_War
They really want to know what the Streaker spaceship found out in the star-lanes (see Startide Rising), so they set off for Garth (a planet leased by Earth in an attempt to undo ecological harm that has transpired there) on an official ‘crusade’.
The galactic politics are interesting and at least come up with some plausible explanations why the aliens don’t just roast earth, which is obviously the grand prize if you think Humans are not worthy of their patron status, and be done with it.
Galactic civilization is balanced on a knife's edge. Power is gained by becoming patrons, gaining client races, uplifting them to sentience and starfaring, and having them as more or less indentured servants over hundreds of thousands of years. But then humans came on the scenes, "wolflings," who apparently bootstrapped themselves up into sentience, a feat thought to be impossible. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
is book 3 in Brin’s Uplift Saga and the second from the series to win both Locus Sci-Fi and Hugo awards (in 1987, following 
My favourite moments include:-	the otter species uplift ceremony-	the thunder dance / rave-	the crazy three-way Evil Space Chicken courtship process-	‘rillas!If you're looking for a reliable on-the-money reviewer to follow, you wouldn't go far wrong with Nicholas Whyte who sums up the negatives of this book rather perfectly when he says:“humans (and their allies) rarely lose a battle or an argument; we are rather compelled to cheer for our boys.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1383307.htmlOne of Brin's novels of the future universe where humanity has become part of a galactic culture of species Uplifting each other from pre-sapience to civilisation, homo sapiens being unique in that we achieved that status without external intervention.The book is fun in a lot of ways - smart humans and chimps, and their allies, manage to overcome the prejudices and wishful thinking of the more nasty aliens.
(The only Bad Human who displays racial and gender prejudice is explicitly South Asian.) I think I would have been happier if the book had explored colonialism and race a little more profoundly.
David Brin's Uplift Trilogy has not been the easiest series for me to read. I enjoyed  Sundiver  as a mystery set within a much larger universe. Brin left me hungry for more, but  Startide Rising  left me bitter and disappointed. What had started with so much potential seemed encumbered by flawed storylines and a myriad of unwanted characters. Hence, I was doubtful of The Uplift War's ability to mollify me.While certainly superior to Startide Rising, The Uplift War lacks the central protagonist
Hence, I was doubtful of The Uplift War's ability to mollify me.While certainly superior to Startide Rising, The Uplift War lacks the central protagonist that made Sundiver so compelling.
As such, the span of the story is somewhat larger than Startide Rising's, which at least gives the much-inflated cast something to do for six hundred pages.Maybe my expectations are just skewed here, but I'm in this series for the answer to one question: who, if anyone, Uplifted humanity?
After such tantalizing promises in Startide Rising, Brin shelves that question once again.
You'll have to make up your own mind.My Reviews of the Uplift series:← Startide Rising | Brightness Reef →
The chims overall were great, although I think I still prefer the fins from Startide Rising.
Garth itself (the planet this book is set on) was a great "character", well developed, with a sense about it of a living, breathing world.The aliens were mostly pretty good.
They had good personalities and interesting biology, but psychic aliens are just such a shitty trope.
The glyphs and all that other psychic stuff was my least favourite aspect of the book, especially as the biology behind it was so tenuous (or indeed, not explained at all).
4.0 stars. The continuation of the Uplift Saga began in the superb Startide Rising. Amazing world-building (rather universe building), a superb plot and peopled by fascinating characters and races. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Winner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Nominee: Prometheus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)
I found this book was not nearly as page-turning as Startide Rising, and overlong to boot.
DNF at 43%.I really really tried to like this book enough to finish it, but I just couldn't.
Earth is unique in that humans “uplifted” themselves to a space travelling race, seemingly without the intercession of a patron race (although there is debate about whether an unknown race uplifted them & then disappeared, the Von Daniken hypothesis).
And then humans had the temerity to uplift both dolphins and chimpanzees before they made contact with the Eatees, putting some of the elder patron races’ noses out of joint.
Hence the desire of the Gooksyu-Gubru to prove that the Neo-Chims are not really uplifted and that the Earthings are mismanaging the planet Garth that they have been assigned to rehabilitate.The pleasure is in the details for me—the details of Neo-Chim society in this book.
This time I cared a lot more about the characters, and the writing seemed much smoother and less annoying.
I liked her species, I liked their intuitive psi sense, the artistic glyphs they broadcast, and their great sense of humor.
The birdlike enemies in this book, the Gubru, had an interesting society and mating system, but overall they were pretty annoying.
They were depicted as full characters with lots of complexity.
I have great hopes that the series will continue to get better as it goes on.
The books are nothing like as good as, say, an Ursula K.
Best book till now of the Uplift series, the story telling and the characters development were much better.The alien races present in the book were great. Did enjoy the many undercurrent regarding the diplomacy and warfare of the Galactic's.
Read as part of Uplift: The Complete Trilogy.
In Startide Rising, Brin focused on one of two species that humans had uplifted, the dolphins, who had stumbled across a derelict fleet that may or may not belong to the long-fabled Progenitors, the species that had set the template for Uplift throughout the galaxy, and sparked a religious war throughout the galaxy.The Uplift War is set immediately after the events of Startide Rising and focuses on humankind's second client species, the chimpanzees of the human colony world of Garth, a small backwater planet far removed from the conflict tearing the galaxy apart until a race of giant birds known as the Gubru decide to conquer Garth and hold it hostage until Earth decides to share their discovery.
The reader is expected to refer to the glyph-glossary at the front of the book for their meanings which, of course interrupts the flow of the narrative.Overall, this book is an extremely impressive novel and deserves its lofty position near the top of most science fiction must-read lists.
It can certainly be read as a stand-alone novel but I do recommend reading the previous book, Startide Rising, just because of the several references made to it during the unfolding of the plot of this one.
The Uplift War is the second novel, and this is where the political landscape of the Five Galaxies is laid out.
Potential client races are in short supply, but an awful lot of status and power is on the line for the patrons who can claim and control them.
Into this fray come the humans, a “wolfling” race with no known patrons, and two uplifted clients of their own, the dolphins and chimpanzees.
Meanwhile, back in The Uplift War, on the human leasehold planet of Garth, the bird-like Gubru take advantage of the ongoing military conflict to invade on a flimsy pretense and lay claim to the human’s client chimpanzees.
I would never recommend The Uplift War to my friends who are skeptical about science fiction.
The pages are peppered with made-up alien words like lurrunanu and tu'fluk.
Some passages are absolutely painful, such as when the author describes a wall as "the barrier that undulated complacently over the countryside like a net settled firmly over their lives."If that doesn't bother you, and if you're already a fan of the science fiction genre, then you might enjoy this book.
Don't expect to find this mystery revealed in The Uplift War. You'll have to read Startide Rising if you really want to know.
The Uplift trilogy is not sci-fi that tries to shove exotic hypotheses and intricate world-building down your throat or reads like a technical manual, this is 'soft' sci-fi, a nice story that just happens to have aliens in it to better put things into perspective.
Brin is in no way preaching but what you take away from it is that, yes there may be things unimaginable 'out there' and maybe someday our species might deserve a place among the citizens of the galaxy but, in its current state, humanity is nothing more than a barbaric upstart, and we should recognize that fact and try to better ourselves before we ruin what we have here on this small blue dot.
Shares a universe with the other books of the series, could stand alone.
Describes life in an occupied land (world), and is somewhat better than the previous book.
He and others are fully 3D, a welcome change from the previous book.
Took me a month and a half to finish it, as I would put it down and feel little compulsion to pick it up again.Reviewing the series, the wide web of characters and plots is pretty interesting, and probably took a book to keep track of.
Three following books make up a new series, the Uplift Storm trilogy.
Although the ideas about environmentalism and uplifted species are powerful and the universe that Brin creates is interesting, this book, like the previous two in the series, fails to deliver on its promise.
I would give the book a lower rating, but there are passages that are exciting or compelling in one way or another and there are characters and species types who are interesting.
In short, this book (and series) is disappointing and frustrating in light of the larger issues Brin raises, but, from a more limited perspective, it is at least generally entertaining.
Putin mai buna decat primele doua carti, dar in general este o serie destul de slaba.
I am going through the Legendary era of "1980's Hard SciFi". This is completely out of my comfort zone, as the 1950's in my favorite decade of SciFi literature, and I do not consider myself technical enough to be fully able to appreciate Hard-Scifi. I had to consult the Wiki several times to understand the nuances and overall-direction the novel was taking me.Three-stars. This book was more a retelling of Startide Rising. The Gubru were my favorite characters. And this was a very memorable read, though not necessarily a fun read.
I've always wondered what would happen if The Muppets were to visit the Planet of the Apes......NOT. Yet, In Uplift Wars, that's exactly what you get. A race of space-faring overgrown chickens attacks a planet populated by upright, talking, super intelligent apes and their human counterparts. The only things missing are Pigs in Space, and the Amazing Gonzo. While I admit there were parts that were highly entertaining, I mostly found this novel tedious, ridiculous and annoying. I'm being generous with 2 stars. The End
It's great fun to see some genuine world-building and an attempt at differently thinking alien species. However, the far-flung nature is somewhat belied by constant references to 20th century culture such as Jane Goodall and the three stooges. It also would be a much better book if it were 100-150 pages shorter.Nonetheless one that anyone interested in the breadth of SF should probably pick up.
In the Uplift War, a brutal (though it's hard to think of 4 foot squaking birds as brutal) alien race blockades the planet Garth, a fringe world leased to humans, to take hostages and try to get information from Earth as to what it was the dolphins aboard Streaker really found.
So I liked this book, or I wouldn't have given it 3 stars, but it adds very little to the story that begun with Startide Rising.
The ending of Uplift War is a bit surprising and I liked it, but as a whole it didn't satisfy my expectations.
Brin as a storyteller I'm still not so sure about.If Brin had used a different pen name for each of the Uplift books, I would have been tricked into thinking they were all written by different authors.
Here we get a Brin much more in control of the present story but a Brin that also loses momentum with the bigger Uplift Universe.
I'm still not sure which of the Brin storytellers I like the most.There are worse mistakes to make with a middle volume of a medium-length (six books) series.
This is the final volume in the first Uplift War trilogy and it is the best of the three in my opinion.
This book on the surface deals with one of the older galactic races - the Gubru - and their attempt to find the elusive pre-sentient Garthlings so they can sponsor them and one up Earth who they feel has not earned its patron status.But it is so much more than that because Brin has woven the best and worst parts of humanity and by association aliens into the story.
It reads easily enough and like its predecessors it explores some truly original ideas as far as Galactic society goes, but the vast majority of the characters simply didn't feel very compelling.
A few times I found myself feeling bored with the antics of the human and chimp resistance.All of the most interesting characters were Galactics but their points of view were brief and spread thin.
Must have been a weak year for Sci-Fi.One of my problems with it, like some of the other reviews I've read, is that it was hard to see the main evil aliens as much more than jokes.
And the hero's were chimpanzees: I kept trying to envision them as the Chimps in the newest version of "The Planet of the Apes" films, but unfortunately I kept seeing them as just plain chimps, which make it hard to get excited about them.And to me, Mr. Brin isn't a very great writer.
It was as if Mr. Brin was trying to improve his vocabulary, but had only made it to the first 3 letters of the dictionary.
The third book in the series takes place around the same time as the previous one.
But there are jokes within jokes being played and a different race altogether makes a sudden stand against all the regulations of the sprawling universe.I really enjoyed this as it had lots of action, fantastic characters and a great ending.
It was also good to find out that the characters from the last novel are very much still in play and that their parts have not finished in the series.
