https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33052.Murder_in_the_Cathedral
A play based on the murder of Thomas Becket (Archbishop of Canterbury - in the 12th century) by knights loyal to King Henry II.
Becket is tempted by four individuals, representing: worldly pleasures; temporal power against the king; temporal power against the king's enemies (the barons), and spiritual power and glory.
Announcing his recent enlightenment, he triumphantly dies at the hands of knights-a true martyr; He did not actively seek his own death and glory, but submitted himself to a destiny ordained by God. The knights, echoing the characteristics of the four tempters, in an attempt to justify their actions, in which Eliot deftly represents.
A fabulous verse-drama about the martyrdom of Thomas Becket. Most of the action is in Thomas's head, as he rejects the easy solutions presented by his Tempters, and decides to stick to the course which inevitably leads to his death. My favorite lines are the following: The last temptation is the greatest treasonTo do the right deed for the wrong reason It sounds convincing, but I've never been able to decide if I agree. Given how uncertain people generally are about their motives, isn't what you
A fabulous verse-drama about the martyrdom of Thomas Becket.
Most of the action is in Thomas's head, as he rejects the easy solutions presented by his Tempters, and decides to stick to the course which inevitably leads to his death.
For example, when you read about the background to many great works of art, you'll often find that they were composed for the most trivial and ridiculous of reasons; impressing some random woman that the author was keen on, settling scores with a rival, winning a bet, or, most often, just paying an overdue bill.
while reading it, I just find myself swept along by the verse.
One of T.S. Eliot's masterpieces, Murder in the Cathedral is a drama of the return to England and martyrdom of St. Thomas Becket.
The "Interlude," a homily by Thomas upon martyrdom, finally shows that he has conquered the fourth temptation.After the murder of Thomas, the knights who have killed him each in turn step forward to justify themselves to the audience.
Just as Thomas's homily revealed the mind of the martyr, the mind of the murderer is revealed in the defenses given by each knight for his actions.
Human kind cannot bear very much reality.The structure of this play is gripping. The use of the chorus was very effective, whereas the depiction of a conflicted Becket in dialogue with his temptations could’ve been explored further. The absence of Henry II makes matters more human and inchoate. The state is thus shorn of personality. The debate of ideas and sacrifice reminded me of the debate surrounding Edward Snowden. Unfortunately I began to ponder and compare the fixed points of liberty and security and my attention drifted.
Uma peça de teatro poética sobre o assassinato, no dia 29 de dezembro de 1170, de São Thomas Becket, Arcebispo de Cantuária. Um horror... de chato; para mim, claro, pois numa espreitadela rápida nas reviews vi muitas com cinco estrelas.
Wonderful writing.
Eliot's writing is weighty as per usual and does not lose its touch from being written into theater.
The strangest part of this entire work is the Knights behavior post-murder, since they decide that after their bloody deed the best course of action is to face the crowd and give a Ciceronian style oration one by one in defense of their actions.
But both are fixedIn an eternal action, an eternal patienceTo which all must consent that it may be willedAnd which all must suffer that they may will it,That the pattern may subsist, for the pattern is the actionAnd the suffering, that the wheel may turn and stillBe forever still
Coglie con straordinaria brevità gli aspetti più delicati del rapporto tra l'uomo e Dio, i giochi del potere, la cognizione del dolore e della morte.I quattro tentatori dell'Arcivescovo Becket si sovrappongono alle tre tentazioni nel deserto del Cristo, con l'aggiunta di una tentazione, la più 'infida'; segui il tuo destino, accetta il martirio come 'vendetta' sui tuoi assalitori.
Tommaso Becket rifiuta questa tentazione con maggiore indignazione rispetto alle tre precedenti tentazioni 'materiali'.Stupendi i cori, evocazione del grande teatro classico greco; il coro delle donne di Canterbury dopo l'uccisione del vescovo, è una perla luminosa della Letteratura che ho trascritto interamente nelle note a margine.
King Henry wanted the church to be under the power of the state, or King, and in the ensuing disagreement, Thomas fled to France and was in exile for 7 years.
But in this case Eliot means not merely King Henry II and the English people, who he wants to be faithful to, but his higher monarch of the Lord Jesus Christ and the church of God.I am glad I took the time to read this short work.
At the same time in some Anglo-Saxon countries the play was unsettling as it asked the primarily Protestant audience to be outraged at the death of a Catholic clergyman."Murder in the Cathedral" does not speak as directly to the issues of Religious persecution in the twentieth century.
While Eliot is one of the greatest English poets of the twentieth century, the verse in "Murder in the Cathedral" is nowhere near as good as in "The Wasteland." For my money the verse in "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats."Read this play nonetheless.
Eliot's critique of tyranny and religious oppression may be belong to another era but it remains valid.
I loved this.I didn't get most or all of it, I'm sure, but the parts I did comprehend are good and true and beautiful.All men seek peace.
If the chorus was waiting for his return, he is expecting the events.
Becket is at peace because he is expecting the events to unfold as they do.
They have no peace.Eliot weaves many themes - waiting and expectation, peace and fear, and the march of time together to create a whole.
Or will we work in peace with expectation toward the Kingdom coming?
A perfect book. Review to come.
Everyone knows what is coming, and an ominous cloak hangs over Canterbury.I liked that Eliot personified the temptations that Thomas faced: his friendship with Henry, the chance for earthly power, the good of the English church, and the glory of martyrdom.
The glory of martyrdom is the most seductive of all: “The last temptation is the greatest treason: / To do the right deed for the wrong reason.” The scenes with the temptations mirrored Christ’s agony in Gethsemane, except that Eliot gave voice to the thoughts that would have restrained Thomas.
The BasicsAn historical play written in verse that tells of the murder of the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1170.My ThoughtsTalk about going outside of your comfort zone.
I don't read a lot of poetry.
I don't read a lot of plays.
And I don't read a lot of historical fiction.
I couldn't resist that title.
I enjoyed it.There are some stories that, while the plot may be vaguely intriguing and you could cite only having somewhat of an interest in what goes on, the language makes it.
The style and the poetry and the language are what makes this sing.

Our Lord is at one with the Pope, and also the King of France."The third priest is the most spiritual and the least worldly; he has a deep sense of the mystery of destiny's great wheel:"for good or ill, let the wheel turn.The wheel has been still, these seven years and no good.For ill or good, let the wheel turn.for who knows the end of good or evil?Until the grinders ceaseAnd the door shall be shut in the street,And all the daughters of music shall be brought low."The speeches by the priests are followed by an extended chorus--one which tries to find peace by simply avoiding conflict and running away from the problem:"O Thomas, Archbishop, leave us, leave us, leave sullen Dover, and set sail for France.
Displays many the New Criticism's strengths.
Becket's temptation and final choice is a case study in the need to maintain the detachment of the visible church as an institution in service of the invisible body of Christ despite the demands of class acceptance and social justice/reform.Either way, there's plenty sharp, original language to enjoy here:"Human kind cannot bear very much reality.""You argue by results, / as this world does, / to settle if an act be good or bad."
Perhaps Eliot wishes simply to convey the futility of all our stratagems in the face of the "turning of the wheel?" "Destiny waits in the hand of God, not the hands of statesmen."Being a student of history, I found the following passage particularly well-placed:(The Fourth Tempter speaking to Thomas)"You have also thought, sometimes at your prayers,Sometimes hesitating at the angles of stairs,And between sleep and waking, early in the morning,When the bird cries, have thought of further scorning.That nothing lasts, but the wheel turns,The nest is rifled, and the bird mourns;That the shrine shall be pillaged and the gold spent,The jewels gone for light ladies' ornament,The sanctuary broken, and its storesSwept into the laps of parasites and whores.When miracles cease and the faithful desert you.And men shall only do their best to forget you.And later is worse, when men will not hate youEnough to defame or to execrate you,But pondering the qualities that you lackedWill only try to find the historical fact.When men shall declare that there was no mysteryAbout this man who played a certain part in history." I think I'll being reading this one again.
Meanwhile in Thailand, where the law is violating the human's right and twisting the martyrdom into the sacred sacrifice, this book is a parallel for what surrealistically happened in country. It is exploring the execution of a person that is worthwhile for the so-called social justice, and the exhibit institution is maltreating people's belief.
The history of the long feud between Becket and Henry II is a captivating one; and Eliot is right to frame its ghastly end, as I think he does, as a symbolic moment in which the conservative and medieval conception of a social order in which all utilitarian interests-- political, economic, social, or otherwise--are subordinated to, or embedded within, Christian morality, was usurped and upended by the secular and demotic interest, thus birthing the modern world.
Becket rejects each of these temptations in turn, and the middle of the drama features an interlude in which he delivers a Christmas sermon reflecting on the close proximity of masses celebrating the birth of Jesus and the martyrdom of Saint Stephen on the liturgical calendar.
I would give this 3 1/2 stars if I could, and it was definitely trending toward 4 stars.
I love Eliot's poetry, and even spent a semester in college studying it.
This is written very poetically in structure and vocabulary.
If you love history and great literature you will love this play.
This play is also timely in that it deals with questions of when do you obey the government, when do you resist, when do you acquiesce to laws, and when you do fight to change them and the political structure.
There are other great philosophical elements to this play as well.
I do much better when I can see a play rather than read it, and Murder in the Cathedral is one I definitely needed to see.
In fact, Murder in the Cathedral was one of the harder plays for me to read, and I think it would have helped if I had at least listened to it on tape because then I could hear the different voices.As is it, Murder in the Cathedral was hard to visualize, and I spent most of my time being lost in the language rather than the plot.
I finished it and immediately asked, “okay…what happened?”I guess it’s just another play I need to see rather than read.
The Third Knight also tries to arouse patriotic sentiments by saying that he and his compatriots were four normal Englishmen who put their country first.
The speeches of the four knights may be compared to the propaganda spread by the Nazis in the 1930s which tried to arouse patriotic sentiments and also rationalize unspeakable acts of violence.Murder in the Cathedral is a very significant play because it tried to explain the concept of sacredness of the Catholic Church to a 20th century audience while also making it relevant by comparing the four Knights to the Nazis who were creating havoc across Europe.
Murder in the Cathedral brings into the account the life of Thomas Becket, the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1100's who was eventually dedicated to his service-dedicated enough to refuse to pardon Henry II, the monarch who ruled during that era.
Every priest lamented for Becket's death-he was noble and just ruler and very few men of Canterbury know the fact.The theme of the play is explained by the lines of Beckett,who in this particular scene,was defending his reason for refusing to give the king a pardon for his irresponsible acts(Lines 188-193,part II):"It is not I who insulted the King,And there is higher than I or the King,it is not I, Beckett from Cheapside,It is not against me, Beckett, that you striveIt is not Beckett who pronounces doom,But the law of Christ"s Church,the judgement of Rome."These lines clearly expresses Becket's devotion to his duties as a Archbishop.
Utilitarians would no doubt pick the former option (and often praise some of the incidental benefits of capitalism in just this way), but like Eliot I opt for the latter.
By willing the selfless sacrifice, the selfless are in fact, by nature and by contrivance, acting to promote themselves and satisfy their desires.
So, altruism, selflessness and goodness are in essence unachievable, by virtue of the fact that those who most desire them are by their very desires fulfilling their own wishes and hence acting selfishly rather than selflessly.
They will seem unreal.Human kind cannot bear very much reality."Maybe I'm not catholic enough to appreciate this book, as I do his Four Quartets.
In the very least, Becket had the twisted power also to condemn people to hell or hand them a ticket into heaven, and thus the power of influence.
There is also a clear and definite distinction between what is sacred (e.g., the ground where Becket dies) and what is not, based merely on human assessment of appearances.
A good read for December, maybe, as the even takes place on Christmas.
prix nobel de littérature 1948*Meurtre dans la cathédrale est une pièce de théâtre en vers et en prose de T. S. Eliot, consacrée au meurtre de l'archevêque de Cantorbéry Thomas Becket en 1170. Créée le 15 juin 1935 dans le chapitre de la cathédrale de Cantorbéry, elle fait ressortir les impératifs contradictoires du spirituel et du temporel grâce à sa construction très symétrique (première partie, interlude, seconde partie ; correspondance entre quatre tentateurs spirituels et quatre chevaliers temporels), ainsi que par l'intervention d'un chœur, comme dans la tragédie grecque.
This book was not for me and was only read as an English assignment for school. The whole thing was difficult to follow. I felt like there was something I should have known before beginning the book. The only thing I could comprehend from the plot was that the King thought Thomas the Archbishop had betrayed him in some way so now he wants him put to death and sent knights to do it. Blah. Blah. Blah. Boooorrriiiinggg. Next.
One of my biggest complaints about the way history is taught is that it doesn't leave much room for the human aspect of monumental goings-on of the past. Leave it to T.S. Eliot to rectify that problem. Using a Greek theatrical method as the vehicle for an American emigrant's retelling of 12th-century English martyrdom satisfied so many of my geekier interests. As did Eliot's breathtaking way with words.
"I have tasted the savour of putrid flesh in the spoon""I have eaten smooth creatures still living...they live and spawn in my bowels, and my bowels dissolve in the light of dawn""I have lain in the soil and criticized the worm""I have smelt corruption in the dish, incense in the latrine, the sewer in the incense""rings of light coiling downwards, descending to the horror of the ape"
S. Eliot's writing - his lyricism is beautiful and the way he makes words flow is beyond belief.
When you've got things like "Yet we have gone on living,Living and partly living." or"The last temptation is the greatest treason:To do the right deed for the wrong reason."or even"King, emperor, bishop, baron, king:Uncertain mastery of melting armies,War, plague, and revolution,New conspiracies, broken pacts;To be master or servant within an hour,This is the course of temporal power."you know you're working with one of the great wordsmiths of an era.
Overall: 7/10, because with words mastered as beautifully as these, it almost doesn't matter if you don't understand what's going on.
There is no safety in the cathedral. Some presage of an actWhich our eyes are compelled to witness, has forced our feetTowards the cathedral. We are forced to bear witness. This is from the opening monologue. In this way, the chorus sets the stage for the events about to unfold. From the very beginning, the reader (or viewer; it is a play after all) is made to understand that this story is one of dread, of suspense, and above all, horror. Sacred places are desecrated, holy traditions are defile
Some presage of an actWhich our eyes are compelled to witness, has forced our feetTowards the cathedral.
Sacred places are desecrated, holy traditions are defiled, and the devout people of the land look on, unable to do a thing about it.Aside from Thomas Becket, the play's focal character, there are three main parties: the Chorus, the Priests, and the Knights.
When the knights enter the cathedral, they are drunk.
As the panicked priests beg him to find safety, he responds with words intended to calm their fears, as Christ did with his own fearful followers.
Open the door!
"Endurance of friendship does not dependUpon ourselves, but upon circumstance.But circumstance is not undetermined.Unreal friendship may turn to realBut real friendship, once ended, cannot be mended.Sooner shall enmity turn to alliance.The enmity that never knew friendshipCan sooner know accord."what a great piece of verse-drama!
i was so enriched that this play actually takes the centre-stage of what can be seen not only as a part of huge philosophical tradition, but a study of human condition in politico-diplomatic structure.
and that can be seen in this play.
but, the alienation effect in the end is something to be cheering for.
Premise/plot: Murder in the Cathedral is a drama written mostly in verse, with some prose as well.
It's a historical play about Thomas Becket, about the murder of Thomas Becket.
The first part has him arriving back in England, returning to the cathedral, being welcomed by the (women) chorus of Canterbury and the priests.
They know and do not know, what it is to act or suffer.
(17)(Thomas) Only the fool, fixed in his folly, may think he can turn the wheel on which he turns.
(43)(Thomas) We have fought the beast and have conquered.
For those who serve the greater cause may make the cause serve them,Still doing right: and striving with political menMay make that cause political, not by what they doBut by what they are.There is quite a large amount of beautiful language and prose here, though it is not immediately or obviously in its meaning or intentions.
A lot of the depth, I think, comes from its multi-faceted nature; expressing themes and ideas that are best contemplated and weighed with discretion, but are here used as large portions of dialogue and are easy to miss if not studying and focusing on each line.
MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL.
Eliot.
***.Eliot was born in St. Louis in 1888, and died in London in 1965.
He wrote several plays, of which this is the best known.
It is a simple play written in a complex manner.
It is about the killing and martyrdom of Archbishop Thomas Beckett in Canterbury Cathedral by order of King Henry.
The highlight of the play is the strong speech given by Beckett prior to his murder by four knights.
Although this is a difficult play to read, it is one of the pillars of the author’s work.
Ωραίο σε γενικές γραμμές, ενδιαφέρουσα πλοκή και στήσιμο της υπόθεσης. Θυμίζει περισσότερο σαιξπηρικό δράμα, ιδιαίτερα με στο τέλος όπου οι ιππότες απευθύνονται στο κοινό. Ορισμένες φράσεις και εικόνες επιτυχημένες, αλλά δεν με άγγιξε αρκετά.
Actually, I didn't get it. How Thomas was aware that if he chose any of the tempters, he would be doomed, and still chose one of them?! He is passive, and chose the easier way to go. I don't think it has any thing to do with the significance of Martyrdom.
Eliot's play just seemed a bit too awkwardly poetic to be put on stage.
However, I did like what the play did with Becket's moral conundrum--the notion that his pride and desire to be martyred might be the very sin that would prevent him from becoming a saint.
But my favorite part of the play was when the 4 knights basically stepped outside the plot (breaking the fourth wall) to explain to the audience why they needed to murder Becket even though they personally didn't want to.
Of love and madness, of silence and shouting, of action and imprisonment.
T.S. Eliot screams from the Heavens and the very pit of Hell as he tells the story of Thomas Becket, the doomed Archbishop of Canterbury who battles his own transient rationality with spiritually filial submission.
This is magnified with a battle of ethics between the politics of this world and the code of the Martyr which burdens the mind of the one whose eyes are drawn to the heavens but whose feet are planted firmly on the ground.
I loved it!
A very well written (and in understandable modern English, to boot) fictionalized account of the murder of the Archbishop of Canterbury Saint Thomas Becket ca. 1170.
Senior summer read requirement
24.9.2018 Rakenne ilahduttaa ja kumarrukset antiikin trgedioiden suuntaan: kuoro! Upea kuoro, naiset tilittää runomuodossa tuntojaan mm arjen pyörittämisestä kun ukot sählää tai siis murhaa ja kiistelee kuka on yksinvaltias: Jumala vai kuningas. Syy murhaan: arkkipiispa sooloili ts ei olisi ollut riittävän uskollinen kuninkaalle. Eka lukukerta:A wonderful play with a twist in the end. Study in martydom, re-writing history and secularism. Role of women interestingly written with the most powerful lines in the play.
Murder in the Cathedral is not an easy book to understand. It is short but still takes a deep amount of thinking and interpreting, especially being written in prose. For anyone that likes Church history, this is a great book. It deals with a significant figure in history when it comes to Church and government affairs, Thomas Becket. T.S. Eliot is a great writer and keeps you engaged with a subject from hundreds of years ago. Overall, the play is a good historical read but is not the most entertaining one out there.
OK was as good as I could do with this one.
I could not imagine sitting through a performance of this.
It's not Shakespeare, it's not Greek, it is Eliot, though, I suppose.
Theater doesn't seem to fit him as well as poetry, in my opinion.Becket returns to England knowing he's a marked man.
Becket joins the ranks of the faithful following after the founder of the church.
It's Eliot using his play as a rather obvious vehicle for defending a position he feels needs it.
State versus the church loyalties.
I'd much prefer to revisit the movie Becket.
Murder in the Cathedral attempts to dramatize the assassination of Thomas Becket, the 12th century Archbishop of Canterbury.
I have serious reservations about the play and its viability as a potential stage production, yet Eliot's poetry (especially when writing Becket) is marvelous, affecting, and satisfying.
This question of motivation permeates the play so much so it is returned to at the play's end when the knights responsible for Becket's assassination defend their actions.
Nevertheless, Murder in the Cathedral is a play that wants to understand the relationship between duty and desire.
