https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417783.Mosquitoes
Rating: 3* of fiveI was underwhelmed by Faulkner's second novel. Not that it's a *bad* book, it's just...well, I can't say it better than this:"Joyce's masterwork ULYSSES (which I don't much like) "inspired" Uncle Bill to put in a lot of sex-talk, including *gasp* explicitly lesbian desires!! Maud Martha, bring the sal volatile and loosen my stays, the wimminfolk are runnin' amok!"See the whole sorry mess at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
For instance, the way he never once uses the word "mosquito," even though they're constantly buzzing around the narrative and relentlessly biting his characters.
And to his credit, Faulkner does occasionally stumble into The Zone and write some great sentences, especially when characters pontificate about language and other topics close to the writer's heart.
Words are like acorns, you know.
But you'll find more of that sort of talk in 5 minutes of Barton Fink (where the Faulkner character, Mayhew, has some great lines) than in the too-many hundreds of pages of Mosquitoes.
Unpopular opinion: Mosquitoes is actually my favorite Faulkner novel. It may not have the same "gravity of human experience" as his other works, but in it we find Faulkner as comedian attempting to explore and express his views on "serious art." And he does a fantastic job. Hugely entertaining and genuinely insightful, it's repeatedly the Faulkner novel I most look forward to reading again and again.
I'm giving this book a five star rating because at first and superficial glance it will make me look smart because I liked a book by Falkner finally.
I'm sorry that I'm supposed to like these books, I bring nothing with me from it save this:- philosophers, artists, writers, sculptures and the elite educated need to get day jobs.
They are annoying and spoiled otherwise.- it felt like the milk toast answer to the Harlem Renaissance.- I want some milk and toast.
القراءة الأولى واللقاء الأول مع السيد فوكنر ..
الرواية محيرة جداً غير تقليدية ، الإنتقال في النص يدور بشكل غير مفهوم ومحير كأنها قطع وشظايا أدبية منتناثرة في الرواية ، الحوارات قصيرة وحاسمة وقاطعة أحياناً رغم بساطتها تبدو متقنة وحلوة لو قرأناها بعفوية ..بالنسبة لي غريب هذا الرجل وغير مألوف مايكتبه ، شعرت بألفة غامضة نحو الرواية كما حدث نفس الأمر معي في رواية " الفئران والرجال " ، تلك الرواية العظيمة للعبقري " شتاينبك " ..
طبعاً هناك أشياء غير مفهومة في الرواية وكما قلت فهي محيرة تماماً ولكن برأيي تستحق القراءة وقد لا يتفق معظم القراء معي على ذلك..
Analyzing Faulkner is a bloated, rubbery thing, and when it gets to the point where the study of an artist becomes an industry (only slightly worse than an author becoming an industry) it's time to step back and just read their goddamn books.
A bunch of kind of shitty and morally ambiguous jerkfaces get together on a boat and eat grapefruit, swat at mosquitoes, try to escape, get drunk, dance, and try to fuck each other.
It's kind of like Hitchcock's "Lifeboat" except they're all on MDA and someone spilled a bottle of blood in the bottom of the boat.
However, in the context of Faulkner's artistic development (particularly juxtaposed with Soldiers' Pay), Mosquitoes is a very interesting read.
We know this young author will become the Faulkner of Absalom, Absalom!
It may pale in comparison to his later works but it is still a pretty good read.Reading an author's work from beginning to end provides insight into the way he develops his ideas and style.
In my humble opinion there is no better way to approach an artist.
For that I completely recommend Mosquitoes to anyone interested in approaching Faulkner's oeuvre.
It contains the typically unforgettable, i.e. singular Faulknerian characters, is influenced heavily by Joyce's emphasis on sexual themes, and features some of the most devastatingly sardonic humour in it I have ever come across.
He hints at people possibly getting it on (or off) and I think there was a lesbian scene here too which is very cool for a book written back then.Mosquitoes also contains a large number of quotable observations on life which reminded me at times of Proust's wry commentary on Parisian salon life.
This does not rank among his true masterpieces such as Absalom!
This is my first five star review and I have read some really amazing books! Faulkner sets himself apart via his mastery of language, story telling, dialog, and character development.He never misses a step. About a chapter and a half into the read i thought, "This is why my mother thinks I can't write!" And I am OK with needing to work to aspire to Faulkner.
Dát jednu hvězdičku knížce, kterou napsal držitel Nobelovy ceny, je možná trošku rouhání, ale mě to prostě nebavilo. Docela jsem se nudil, děj nestál za řeč, pokusy o humor nebyly legrační, postavy bezvýrazné... Asi je to ten případ, že i mistr tesař se utne, se Snopesovskou trilogií se to vůbec nedá porovnávat.
To be honest, it has been awhile since I've read this book.
But I felt the need to put up on my list with the other amazing works of fiction I've read lately.
I am a pretty big Faulkner fan, but I grew tired with the similarities between most of his better known books.Mosquitoes is a breath of fresh air after reading Faulkner's other works--not because he isn't an incredible writer, but because it is more Fitzgerald-like than it is Faulkner-like.
Definitely read this book to expand your understanding of Faulkner.
.سمعت الكثير عن "عبقرية" فوكنر وأدب فوكنر، وإن لم تقرأ لفوكنر أنت لست بقارئ وإلخ، تحدث ماركيز عنه ووصفه بالمعجزة الأمريكية، كانت التجربة الأولى مع الصخب والعنف مُستمرة من أكثر من ستة شهور وأنا غارق في الحرب الآهلية في الجنوب الأمريكي بين محور الجنوبي والشمالي ، قررت نقرأ عمل اخر ليه واخترت الثاني "البعوض"، رواية كرسها فوكنر لسخرية من الطبقة التى تسمي نفسها مثقفة "نيواورليانز"، كانت الرواية الثانية للكاتب لاقت عدم انتشار واهتمام كبير، لم تعجبني ..
There are a few really beautiful parts to this book. But mostly I was bored. Because perhaps the only thing more boring than people talking about art is reading about people talking about art. And maybe thats the point. Because the only real artist in the book doesn't talk about it. He just does.
This is a good book.
Not Faulkner's best book by a mile.
But a good book nonetheless.
Characters aside from the two young girls, the old biddy, the older perv, and the sculptor are a bit interchangeable.
You'll also get a completely engrossing opening riff (seemingly covering everything from the title bug to Love and Art and the too-fleeting nature of Life Itself, and of course Girls) and a drunken ending right out of a 20s Screwball Comedy-or perhaps a peek into the troubled Faulkner screenplay for The Big Sleep.I'll admit, a lot of it droned by.
A definite step backwards from his first novel.
This one still contains some beautiful images and prose, but far too much pedantic talk about art and aesthetics (which is part of the point: "mosquitoes" being parasites, and none of the artists portrayed in the book producing a bit of art during the course of the book [with one exception], instead using their reputations to sponge off the rich and TALK about art...endlessly).
This is notable for what is perhaps one of the first modern novels to contain the author as a character (appearing offstage), and for some mild homoerotic scenes between women (men, of course, are safely asexual with each other).
Still readable, but not close to what Faulkner would be capable of beginning with his next novel.
This novel has so much .
potential.
There are beautiful images abounding, and fascinating insights into artistic philosophy.
That being said, without much of a plot to hold it together and with a fair dash of prose experiments on Faulkner's part, Mosquitoes is a supremely difficult read.
It's almost as if the reader is alternately drowning and then coming up for air each time Faulkner offers a reprieve in the form of one of his more skillful passages (the foray into New Orleans' swamps is replete with gorgeous imagery).
it seems that this method would net a better appreciation of this early Faulkner.
This is Faulkner's second novel, and like most of his early writing, it is more accessible than some of his later, more experimental and modernist work.
The writing here is much more nuanced than in his first novel, Soldier's Pay, and there are strong hints of what is to come in terms of style, but it is an entertaining narrative that reveals incredible talent for characterization and especially description.
The story of a boat excursion is also a meditation on the role of art in society and in life, and makes a good read.
Though slagged as Faulkner's worse novel by the all knowing academia, I actually found it to be a good read.
It was far, far superior to Faulkner's first, Soldier's Pay. This reads much more like Faulkner in his prime.
More a novel of ideas than anything else, it introduces us to some of his future favorite words like...
"fecund." Sadly, "ratiocination" and "apotheosis" have yet to surface.
As Faulkner himself references, this may perhaps be his ode to Balzac.
And as another Facebook review noted, this does have the feel of Melville's The Confidence Man, if not in spiraling obfuscation, in its setting.
Not the easiest book that I have ever read, but enjoyable nevertheless. Mrs Maurier invites a number of artistic New Orleans folk to join her and some others on a cruise on her private yacht. Thus confined, numerous conversations, many of an elevated nature, occur along with much flirtation. Serious conversations in which the author explores the meaning of art are interspersed with sensuous descriptions of frustrated amorous adventures. Though not an easy read, it made me want to read more of Faulkner's novels.
Drags in places. Not just because of Faulkner's long passages of stream of consciousness...though that is here too. But just because there's not really a story here. Faulkner is working out a lot of how he sees art and its purpose. And how he sees women...less than flatteringly. An interesting early novel. Better than the first one, but it's a big jump from this to The Sound and the Fury, two books later.
I loved this book. It's been a while since I've read it, but I thought it was just wonderful.I suspect that this was near autobiographical to a young Faulkner, as most early works are, and therefore giving the reader personal insight into the man; much like Portrait was to Joyce.The relationship between benefactor and artist, from the perspective of the artist, is laid out perfectly by all those blood sucking mosquitoes.OK, it's no Absalom Absalom, but it's pretty damn good.
Was pretty scathing towards the rich, artists and what would today be called hipsters. Calling out the frivolity of their lives and prescribed roles they are called to fulfill. Ultimately though it just felt uninspired. It plodded along, which after having lived in New Orleans, definitely gave a sense of the hot heavy summers, which sap everything out of you.Not one of his best known works for a reason. Pass on this.
La mia prima "1 stella" di quest'anno, e spero anche l'ultima. Non so nemmeno perché ho perseverato a leggere un libro che chiaramente non mi piaceva fin dall'inizio. Forse perché volevo dare una chance a Faulkner, ma questo sarà il suo primo e ultimo libro che leggo.Non mi importava niente di questi ricchi e annoiati artisti e mecenati riuniti in una crociera sul lago. Un libro noiosissimo e confusionario.
Definite improvement over his first novel. The book contained the most humor of any Faulkner novel, which made it strange due to my past experiences with his writing. He starts to dabble with a bit more adventurous writing techniques that would become his halmark later on. All and all a pretty enjoyable read.
A lot better than it gets credit for. Reminiscent of Waugh and early Huxley. There are some brief Joycean moments that don't really work, but that prefigure more successful experimentation in later Faulkner novels. Not as good or ambitious as Sartoris, but far more accomplished and coherent than Soldiers' Pay.
This is the only book I've read by William Faulkner, and to my understanding it is quite different from his other works, but I enjoyed it as a story. The characters serving as caricatures were consistently entertaining and the feelings evoked by the writing itself helped me to understand why Faulkner is considered such a quintessential Southern writer.
Faulkner cracks me up with this wry light social commentary of southern gentility and how the spirit of beauty and life survives despite the characters accepting their stations in society. Loved the buzzing thread.
Moreover, his sculpting of the headstrong, adventurous niece character, who has the boyish body of a liberated and nonconformist 20’s flapper, shows how within and beyond a woman’s body there is a spirit that cannot be caught by men and male artists, a spirit that might as well be genderless due to its lack of conformity to gender roles and its equal nature to that of men.
Faulkner even includes the character of a female artist searching for a male muse for some balance.
I think I’ve had my fill of Faulkner for now, but I admire his ultimate empowerment of women and modernity despite it coming from a self-consciously quaint and outdated, established Southern male point-of-view.
The ship’s immobility mirrors Jenny’s astute observation about a group of people, mostly men, who “are not going anywhere.” Most of the “artists” aboard the Nausikaa are blowhards who talk about art instead of making it.It’s difficult to discern a protagonist in Mosquitoes, although the bumbling Ernest Talliaferro is probably the novel’s most developed character.
Faulkner repeatedly describes her as “soft” and “passive.” Some critics have stated that Talliaferro’s character echoes Faulkner, and it’s sometimes unclear whether the novel’s hostile, sometimes brutal, views of women emanate from its characters or its author.Mosquitoes is often humorous, an ingredient missing from most of Faulkner’s novels.
Mrs. Patricia Maurier starts out being this haughty old lady who is overconfident in her observations of art and artists, and she transforms into this crushed old lady who is only just realizing that the people in her life are using her.Ernest Talliaferro was a man who knew women in the sense of knowing how to make them up.
He's really a good talker and he and Julius (aka the Semitic man) have numerous conversation about the certain characters in the novel; about art and artists and what they mean, and about women, attraction, and how to get the lady.
