https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36347162-chocolate-chip-cookie-murder
Fantastic new series... and now they have a TV series with Alison Sweeney. Nice! It was one of the first cozies I read with recipes and I had to test one or two out. :) More to come on this series... I'm anxious to finish all 20+ books!
:PI heart this genre so much; it walks the tightrope between good old-fashioned, small town, hardboiled noir and straight up cutie patootie-ness.It's a great break from all the really sad, serious stuff going on around the world and in books, and is a gentle reminder of better days gone by.
This little slice of perfection is tucked away from the madness of the world; nothing can ruin the simplicity and joy of your experience.And that's cozy mystery.Anyhoo, Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder is the first in a long-running series written by Joanne Fluke.
The latter books were written more recently and the author did a pretty good job throwing in those little details that let you know that yes, you are in the 21st Century now (for example, one of the characters carries around a laptop and cell phone).
She eats a lot of cookies and worries about how fat she is and just frets about her weight far too often in the books.
(At one point she goes on a diet and after a couple of days people are telling her how much weight she's lost and how good she looks.
Oh HAIL to the NO!!Did we really stop being monkeys to evolve into reading, thinking beings to read this shit?Seriously: A monkey could have written a better story.A monkey could have solved this mystery without Idiot #1 and Idiot #2.A monkey police officer wouldn't have made his untrained family member solve the crime for him.In other words, when it comes to this book, we might as well go back to armpit-scratching and poo-throwing because it is that braincell-stealing dumb.(Yes, I admit I should have run for the hills when I saw the cover.
That should have been my trigger warning.)
Don’t.The book’s plot runs thusly: Hannah Swenson owns and runs a cookie bakery in a small touristy town, and one morning in winter her milkman doesn’t show up to deliver as he always does – and she finds him shot dead in the alley behind her shop.
I love the fact that while she is not a cookie-cutter (sorry, had to do it) type of beauty, she is still pursued by two different men, and even solves crimes before the local police can pick up on most of the clues!
Try visiting her website at www.murdershebaked.com for some summaries and recipes.I like to read these books before bed, because each chapter is relatively short, so I can read as little or as much as I want, and it's always a tasty (and happy) ending!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/2.5 StarsYou know how you know something isn’t good for you, but you’re still all like . . . .  Yeah. That’s pretty much this book. After all, it is the story of the local cookie shop owner who gets recruited by her brother-in-law (who just so happens to be Barney Fife a policeman) to help solve the first murder Eden Lake has ever had. I mean, I haven’t experienced something this ridiculous since . . . . . well, actually just about a w

I am a sucker for the quick, easy, light-hearted mystery novels and I really enjoy Joanne Fluke. The characters are fun and the "whodunits" are clever enough. Not surprisingly many of the situations the heroine finds herself in are a bit unlikely. But it's not meant to double your IQ, just entertain and all of her books do well at that.
Don't get me wrong, I love a cozy mystery & read lots of 'em, but why does the main character (if she’s younger than 35) always fall into one of two types in this genre?
What the heck is Bill (the cop) doing while Hannah is out solving this case?Don't get me started on how the author details Hannah's EVERY move and the horrible dialogue where the characters use the name of the person they are speaking to 50 times per sentence!!
No small Midwestern town needs THAT many cookies & if they did, they’d all be 300 lbs.I wanted to like this book, I really did.
I'm going to give this 4 stars because Hannah figured out who the murderer was and her brother in law was up for a promotion with the sheriff's office if he caught the killer.
I am glad it all worked out but I felt like Hannah was doing all the work.
She needs to be a cop.
I will definitely read more of these books just because they are a nice, light murder mystery to read.
The characters are believable and easy to like.
Good, fun book if you're looking for something that isn't all blood and gore.
this book will definitely leave you craving for delicious cookies. mystery was also interesting and engrossing. I do hope the other books in the series keep my attention.
Read~August 30, 20103 1/2 StarsIn a way, I was hoping to NOT like this book, because I so do NOT need to be starting another series. Sigh. There goes another wish ungranted, because.... I really LIKED this book. The characters are hilarious, the story/mystery is fun and challenging and the recipes are..pardon the pun..to  DIE  for!!! ;-)Hannah is a delightful heroine, and the cast of characters that come along wi6th her and equally delightful! AND, I didn't know "who-dun-it"!!! YAY YAY YAY!!!!!
I normally don't choose mysteries, but I figured anything with the words "chocolate chip cookie" in it had to be worth reading.
I devoured this book just like I would a cookie, because it really was a fun and quick read.
It's actually a really fun series, and as a I said, good for those times when you just want a light-hearted and relaxing read.
Hannah is torn between the two, and it's fun trying to figure out which one she might choose in the end.
The very likeable Hannah, bakery and pastry shop owner, begins her investigative career because she knew and liked the victim. It's a plus that it helps her policeman brother-in-law's actual career. All the secondary characters are pleasant making this an enjoyable read. Match-making mothers provide some gentle humor. I'll be reading more of this series.
I know this premise is common in cozy mysteries but it still irks me.Between making cookies and pursuing her inquiries Hannah buys a flattering little black dress and attends the annual gala thrown by Del and Judith Woodley - one of the richest families in town.
Soon afterward another dead body is discovered and Hannah learns that this second victim was a loan shark who threatened some prominent Lake Eden residents.
It would be great to know someone like Hannah, who gives away bags of cookies wherever she goes.
Another wannabe detective. Another piece of tripe. I don’t know what I was expecting when I borrowed this audiobook from the library. The synopsis should have said it all. Hannah Swensen is the most popular baker in Lake Eden. Hannah bakes the best cookies in town, and everyone makes sure to tell her this throughout the whole book. Not like Hannah needs their compliments, because she thinks she’s the Cookie Queen as well. She even goes far as to complain about the caterer’s cookies at the bigges
Hannah Swensen is the most popular baker in Lake Eden.
Hannah bakes the best cookies in town, and everyone makes sure to tell her this throughout the whole book.
Not like Hannah needs their compliments, because she thinks she’s the Cookie Queen as well.
You should let me bake for you, BECAUSE MY COOKIES ARE FUCKING AWESOME!” We get it, your shit is the best.
Hannah, being a snoop like everyone else, agrees and plays detective to figure out who the killer is.
Because Hannah watches CSI, Criminal Minds, or whatever cop show that’s out these days she thinks she can solve the case.
I picked this book up on a whim and I definitely enjoyed it.
It's one of the first cozy mysteries that I've read and I loved it.
The author includes recipes for all of the food she talks about considering that our main character owns a cookie shop.
Hannah is a great character.
I loved her sense of humor and independence.
She definitely handled her own in this case.
I can't wait to continue reading the rest of the these books (there's currently 21 *gasp*) and I definitely will be doing a full review of this one.
Hannah owns a bakery in a small town. After the town's local dairy deliveryman is late one morning, Hannah goes to check on him. She finds him in the cab of his truck, shot dead. Hannah does some sleuthing on her own to discover who is the killer. The 1st book in the Hannah Swensen series. This book also includes recipes for the yummy treats Hannah serves at her bakery.A quick and easy read. Great for fans of cozy mysteries. Especially ones with a small town setting and lots of food talk.
"Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder" by Joanne Fluke is an odorable mystery that takes place in a small Minnesota town where Hannah, a baker and cookie shop owner, stumbles upon a murder behind her shop!The cast of characters are delightful, and although it is a "murder mystery", it is so cozy and light-hearted that the murders are hardly disturbing.
Also, being a Minnesota native myself, it was fun to see references to places and things I am familiar with (including landmarks, cities, and roads).
(THEY WERE DELICIOUS!) So, if you are in the mood for a fun "mindless" read, pick up this book.
The only reason I read the book in its entirety is because I was traveling and had nothing else to read in English.
Aside from the flimsy plot and even flimsier characters, the thing that irked me most about the book was when the author tried to dress up her writing with mixed metaphors and other weak attempts at plumping up the lackluster text.
"She was going to have a shiner the size of the Grand Canyon," and "She looked at the chisel-faced anchorman" ???!!
I enjoyed this book. It is only the first one and I believe there is 23 books in the series. I hope as I continue this series that I will still enjoy it. I'm glad to say that this Hannah did not annoy me. I liked her very much. I wasn't a huge fan of her mother though. It would suck always having your mom try to set you up with every guy she meets. I was happy with the mystery of the book too. I was not able to figure out the killer.
Really wanted to like this book (bought a later one from a used book sale...
and wanted to start with this first book in the series).
It started okay and then there was the addition of a chocolate chip cookie recipe...
not finding that amusing.The arrogant baker doesn't leave her police officer brother-in-law to solve a murder mystery but instead decides to investigate on her own and "help".
Fluke narrates what the characters will do...
then has her characters discussing the outcome...
It was so boring and slow moving that I decided to skip through to the end and find out who did it...
Here's the breakdown for me:The Good- It was a quick, easy read.
I didn't know who the murderer was and was slightly surprised when finding it out.
The recipes look delicious that were added, very cute idea!
And lastly, it's good to read someone else has the same belief as I do, "Chocolate can cure just about anything!" :)The Bad- The characters are a bit annoying, the story highly unrealistic, the main character lacks sympathy and I kept thinking the bro-in-law does not deserve the promotion!
The book lacks depth but if looking for a quick murder mystery book this one is perfect!
Hannah Swenson is nothing but a goodie two-shoes and I seriously wanted to punch myself in the face if I had to hear about her life anymore. Not only that, but no officer of the law worth his salt would put a civilian in that type of situation. Unrealistic. Even more unrealistic is that a 20 something woman wouldn't have sex for years. Hello. Even worse, the supposedly hot hearthrob Mike is described as very handsome, but yet has a mustache. What the hell year was this written in?? 1974? Or does Fluke have a thing for pornstaches?
Even though the first murder case comes right at the beginning, the author did an amazing job of developing AND making the plot more twisty and complex, I was kept engaged in the story, I read the latter half in one sitting.
It was simply exhilarating to read!Unlike other cozy-mysteries that I have read prior to this which only gave me irritations (for the reason I mentioned above), this book made me laugh, wonder, and actually try to solve the case along with Hannah.The mystery part is also well-crafted and twisty.
3.5 stars. Nice stat to the series. The mystery was done well although some of what Hannah got away with in her investigating bordered on unbelievable. Even though I’ve heard about what happens in her personal life I still want to read about it for myself.
It was just different - definitely lighter and less serious.
Maybe the target audience was a bit older than myself, but I still enjoyed the book.
Although, I could absolutely see my mom liking this author's style of writing.Basic premise revolves around a self-employed baker that gets nosy when someone she knows is murdered outside of her bakery, so she sets off to track down the killer.I liked the book just fine, but might try some cozy mysteries from other authors before coming back to this series.
This book is the first novel in the Hannah Swensen series.
I thought it was an all-around great mystery story.
What more can a mystery reader ask for?
I found the fact that the main character was a baker very entertaining.
It made me want to run to my nearest bakery every time I read what newest cookie recipe Hannah would be preparing.
The characters are also very amusing, but of course, Moishe might have be be my favorite.
:) Just pick up this book and read it: Hannah Swensen's first adventure is thouroughly entertaining, and I am eagerly looking forward to read the next eleven novels that have been released.
Rated 3.5 stars  I found this book a bit cookie hungry.
I liked how Hannah went about sleuthing and helping her brother in law out with the muders but those cookie recipes made you crave for some.
Hannah was a strong willed character even though her mom tried her best to play match maker.
Even though Hannah was he owner of the cookie shop she did have a way with people but I guess owning a business like that you become very good a people skills.
Its worth to continue to the next book but I may have to try and skip the cookie recipes.
