https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175141.The_Courage_to_Be
I first started reading this book because I want answers to the existential angst that plagues me and others aware of the implications of post-modern ideas.
I don’t mean to say that I wanted an alternative to post-modernism; I don’t believe that is any more realistic than saying that I want an alternative to turning 32, for that’s just wishful thinking.
Enter post-modernism.Tillich starts by differentiating between fear and anxiety.
But Tillich reveals that just as torture can be accepted at the hand of a trusted physician, so existential anxiety can be courageously endured because of a deeper realization that affirms one’s sense of purpose and identity.
If I were to try to describe to someone my faith, I would call myself a "Tillichian" more than a "Christian." Unfortunately, nobody knows who Tillich is outside on PLU, so I need to say "liberal, non-literal, existentialist Protestant" instead.
To let us know that the alienation we feel is not our alone, but of all mankind when our cultural, religious, philosophical and societal safe-guards have all failed.
When we stand naked and vulnerable in the presence of the vast and impersonal universe.
Lo, how small is man, how insignificant our lives, and yet when we are able to pierce through this veil of solitude with the courage to just be, then we realize we are not separate but part of this Universe, we are not alienated, but literally children of the stars.
I put this book in league with Dennis Brutus (who I also adore) and his poem "Stubborn Hope." Tillich is easy to read, even when he is doing the background philosophy work. I read Tillich when I feel discouraged or disheartened. He makes me feel like the mundane struggles of life have meaning.
One of the most important books I have read. It suggests a clear division between psychopathological anxiety and existential anxiety. It reflects the ancient wisdom that the full self must live with the full and certain knowledge of the abyss and meaninglessness, and that to be acceptable to oneself in the fullest sense of human potential one must first learn to love and tolerate one's own wretchedness.
الكتاب يستفيض عن مشاكل الوجود بما فيها من نزعات قلق واضطراب ويأس وشجاعة لإثبات الوجود وضرورة إثبات ا
Starting with soldierly fortitude, Tillich moved on to the Stoic’s courage through control by reason and wisdom, then the self-affirmational Christian courage through Spinoza.
However much of the discussion on existential anxiety is lost on me, I infer the “to be” is associated with the mode of being engaged in self-affirmation, through both as a part of something and as an individual.
This mode of being is actively aware of the uncertainty and doubt in one’s own life, the constant destruction of non-being inherent in the individual instead of the universal.
Instead, Courage is the control of reason and self-affirmation, taking in doubt and anxiety into itself.
Grinnell College's Psychology Department was oriented towards laboratory work. I, being a vegetarian, couldn't participate in much of it. Fortunately, the theoretical side of the field was being handled by the new Religious Studies Department which had a number of psychotherapists as adjuncts and instructors in addition to philosophically inclined senior faculty. My interest in any case was with questions of meaning, those kinds of "psychological" problems which everyone has--or should have at least had. I read Tillich's The Courage to Be in RELST296/Existentialism along with some Victor Frankl, J.P. Sartre, Dostoevsky and Nietszche (my favorite self-help author).
Although Tillich's writing can seem frustratingly academic, the ideas he presents are extremely relevant. He provides a historical framework on the philosophy of courage from Plato to Spinoza and then uses that platform to posit his own reasoning as a religious philosophic. Give this some time to sink in. It's worth it.Do not read this unless you have some momentum going already.
الشجاعة من أجل الوجود موضوع هذا الكتاب عن القلق بنوعيه المرضي كما يسميه البعض والقلق الوجودي و طرق التعامل مع كلا نوعين .
It is the realm of "God above God," and our mystic union with it enables us to "participate in the self-affirmation of being-itself".
In this "personal encounter with God," we can negate "non-being" through "divine forgiveness" and "grace," and leave our non-transcendent fears and desires behind.
In Tillich's theology, our existential condition in this world results in neurosis where we avoid "non-being by avoiding being." Its correction means "being in this world" and requires our participation in a world beyond the self and a generosity toward others.
As Tillich says at the highpoint of the book (page 184-the end), "The God of theological theism is a being beside others and as such a part of the whole of reality.
I think Tillich's work is a must-read in the face of Christians who picture God as just the most powerful being and skeptics who ask why we don't jettison "God" if we've jettisoned other gods.
David Bentley Hart's work corresponds with Tillich here as he also argues that Christians and atheists both picture a God too small.
شجاعة الوجود تحدث الكاتب في عدة محاور ونقاشات لم تحط النفس بأجابتهافالشجاعة من أجل الحب والعلم ومن أجل الحياةوشجاعة المرء هي سلوكه الذي يؤكد وجوده رغما عن العناصر المحيطةوشجاعتنا تعتمد على تصرفات أفعالنافإن كنت بحق موجود أثبت أفعالك بشجاعة وجدودك
This is one hell of a book, compadres. I don't think I've ever read something that so concisely and incisively describes the history of man's existential anxieties and the ways he's tried to deaden or cure them. It'd be wildly impressive simply as an overview, but the fact Tillich's own commentary is so eloquent and straight-for-the-jugular makes it doubly so. If you spend any time worrying and wondering about the situation we humans have found ourselves in, I really think you owe it to yourself to give this a read.
Tillich is brave in the face of the void, but faith ultimately offers no more than knowledge or will (Nietzsche).
The ultimate question requires a new wisdom-before-death, some true seeing through the veil, something religious and supernatural.
What is the spirit that seeks what is not known without skepticism?
Inspired by Heidegger, Tillich takes a great run at it with this classical book, and achieves a new high-water mark for 1952.
Regrettably for those of ultimate concern, the new wisdom is not presented.
Just as the Dalai Lama of Tibetan Buddhism fails to defend the supernatural or secret teachings, there is no transcendental knowledge.
This is a deep, theological, philosophical examination of fear and anxiety. There were lots of insights here, some I understood and some I didn't. I get the feeling that I wouldn't agree with everything that Tillich believes, but he still has a lot of profound thoughts that I can learn from.
I found this book to be a little repetitive and too academic in its tone. For the subject matter, I'd rather read Rollo May, who happened to be a friend of Tillich's. His writing is more accessible.
Tillich lays out the problem of meaninglessness (and what he calls broadly "Existentialism") with elegant parsimony and inexorable explication.
It's one of the best accounts I've read of the history of philosophy from an existential perspective and I was doubly impressed by how compact he managed to make it.
As best as I can tell, the "God above God" can really be nothing more than being-itself if it is to preserve the anxiety of meaninglessness within it as Tillich describes.
Maybe that the best answer there is, but also kinda depressing?
There is a lot that resonates with me in existentialist philosophy.
This book examines the role that anxiety and courage plays in our ultimate relation to being, the relation between pathological and existential anxiety, the tensions between individualization and membership in a group and how to transcend the unique anxiety of meaninglessness and emptiness of the present age.Seeing what concepts of faith and God becomes in the hands of an existentialist theologian is super fascinating.
I feel like existentialist (I've only really read Kierkegaard and Tillich) are the anarchist bomb throwers of protestant Christianity.
A very good analysis of the relationship between and individual and their anxiety.
It was a bit dated (he goes very hard into how much Stalinism sucks) and I think a bit limited by its focus only on the individual effects of anxiety on the development of self, because I think we live now in a world where our (or at least, my) anxiety is inextricably tied to external world events.
Still, this was the smartest (but also tbh only) theory I've read in a while, and I think it provides a very good jumping off point into any greater study into the affects anxiety has on the the philosophical and psychological self as well as ways to overcome the challenges anx poses.
Tillich's seminal work is an erudite argument. The book's chronological movement, from the earliest definitions of courage and the Stoics up to modern Existential literature, there is a beautiful build in Tillich's rhetoric and this is truly artful prose. I take heart in the struggle Tillich names against self-objectification and the necessity of doubt and meaninglessness (a specific type of anxiety) within an absolute faith, a specific term in this text.
Tillich in "The Courage to Be" tries to overrule Aquinas, Aristotle and Plato's intelligible, logical and sensible ordering of human goods so that instead of the traditional position of wisdom and justice being the controlling greater goods of the other virtues - that is, of courage, prudence and temperance - courage overrules all other virtues as the highest good.To this end he begins by misreading Plato's Laches as concluding without any understanding of courage (when in fact it points towards the unity of the virtues of which courage is only one).
Then he concludes the first chapter by simply failing to comprehend Aquinas' when he talks about contemplation as the highest happiness and reason as the ordering principle of virtues.In short, Tillich is trying to be progressive and instead being regressive.
Of course, Tillich’s book does not offer a reason for the courage to be; if the courage to be was founded on a reason, an intellectual process, it would be ultimately foundationless and as meaningless as that which it should overtake.
Tillich’s last two chapters offer a way forward from nihilism and meaninglessness, at the same time answering the question of why – why move thus at all?
Thus Tillich’s book masterfully works in a territory outside of deconstructable and doubtable reasons and outside of reasonlessness/arbitrary choice.
Tillich is also concerned with honesty to meaninglessness and so can comment on how this movement does not ultimately lead to forced forgetfulness or positive distraction.
Hence, courage is the ability to strive towards an affirmation and preservation that is what makes the self itself.Perhaps the most striking part of Tillich’s presentation is his interesting analysis of the ontology of anxiety.
Hence, the anxiety is no longer of this world; instead, it becomes a misplaced fear of the unknown.Tillich also presents the arguments for how the courage to be, manifests itself from the view of being, individualization, and participation.
One such statement is "The wise man who courageously conquers desire, suffering, and anxiety 'surpasses God himself.' He is above the God who by his natural perfection and blessedness is beyond all this."p 17Comments about the creative act: "The ground of everything that is is not dead identity without movement and becoming; it is living creativity.
As such it is the pattern of the self-affirmation of every finite being and the source of the courage to be."p33 Tillich is more specific about creativity here with "Spiritual self-affirmation occurs in every moment in which man lives creatively in the various spheres of meaning.
"p43-44 Tillich then adds this, "The power of man's life cannot be seen separately from what the medieval philosophers called 'intentionality' the relation to meanings.
And as a devoted follower of pragmatist philosophy, it's hard for me to find the vast majority of theology to be anything more than a fancy shell game carried on by intellectuals whose primary task is to close their minds off to anything that fails to qualify for their dogma-of-choice.And yet I decided to overcome my theology phobia by reading Paul Tillich.
Absolutely worth reading for anyone in a perplexed position, and as an agnostic, something bracing, something that signals a way for one to have faith in one's own faithlessness.
I enjoyed feeling like an expanse of ideas occurred to include to contemplation of the following concepts:1- God is not a supernatural entity among other entities.
The question then becomes whether and in what way personal language about God and humanity's relationship to God is appropriate.This leads to me enter any conversation about God with the following conclusion:Any statements about God are simply symbolic, but these symbols are sacred in the sense that they function to participate or point to the Ground of Being.
Anyone who participates in these symbols is empowered by the Power of Being, which overcomes and conquers non-being and meaninglessness for them.
This is a book that I will probably need to read a few times to even remotely begin to understand.
However, what I got out of this first reading was good and interesting, and Tillich certainly gave me a lot to think about.The book begins with a look at the historical understanding of being and courage.
Tillich defines courage as "the self-affirmation of being in spite of non-being." He concludes the book with this statement: "The courage to be is rooted in the God who appears when God has disappeared in the anxiety of doubt."
The first thing you should know is that this is an extremely difficult book to understand. Unless you have a scholarly background, or are much, much smarter than me, you really need to read parts of it twice to understand what's going on. Not saying it's not worth it. Just saying be warned. If you're looking for a more accessible introduction to these ideas, I can't strongly enough recommend Ernest Becker's writings, especially "The Denial of Death" and "The Birth and Death of Meaning." Becker essentially reaches the same conclusions as Tillich but is much easier to understand.
Rich and interesting study by an original theologian and philosopher, who offer to religious studies many new arguments, conversations, notions and theories. My only objection is about the pessimistic and heavy atmosphere of the book.I liked his observations on Stoicism in relation to Christianity.
