https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1203812.Sunset_Song
Voted "Best Scottish Book of All Time" by "the public" in 2005Look here: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/sc...The lines are gorgeous.
When you listen to this you are there in the Scottish Highlands.
I am listening to the audiobook narrated by Eileen McCallum.
Understanding the Scottish dialect is difficult, but worth it.
I love the story, how it plays out, as well as the writing.
It fails because it does not convey how the reader / listener will be drawn into the story.
The themes are the impact of the First World War and pacifism, socialism, the disappearance from the Scottish Highlands of the traditional small-scale croft farming, the cutting of the forests and the subsequent increase of sheep raising.
Your novel probably looks like this:Test 2Have you written a shameless, tearjerking piece of third-world issuetainment after a moving trip to Nigeria in an attempt to “spread the message” to readers around the world about suffering, poverty, and the first-world’s indifference to famine, drought and oppression?
Your novel probably looks like this:Test 3Have you written a sentimental, nostalgic novel romanticising the past in a dreary Irish, Scottish or Northern English ex-mining town?
Is your novel stuffed with lazily specific references to things that happened in the past so people think you are “evoking” a certain place in time wonderfully, rather than simply ransacking your own bland childhood cynically for profit?
Your novel looks like:
The story unfolds through the eyes of Chris Guthrie, her affinity to the land and to a way of life that will never be seen again.
Chris is a wonderful character, she is strong and resilient like the land she loves.This wonderful novel is evocative of time and place, and is rich in characterisation.
All of the characters were well portrayed.
It's a strongly delivered novel, bittersweet and poignant.
The dialect took a while to sort out though, there were some terms that I'd never heard of but it just added to the authenticity of the novel.
Time and money well spent.
REVISIT VIA BBC: Listen hereDescription: Divided between her love of the land and the harshness of farming life, young Chris Guthrie finally decides to stay in the rural community of her childhood.
Episode 1/2 (1 hour): Chris is torn between the love of the land and her ambition to be a teacher.
Episode 2/2: After her father's death, Chris is determined to work the farm, alone if needs be.watch a dramatised production.
If you've ever even been to Scotland and seen this lost world in the desolate ruins of farm steads, this book will make your heart ache ever so much. [Prtf]
It is lyrical and moving, it is old fashioned and modern at the same time, it does blend melodrama and realism, and it does show the best of Scotland in Chris Guthrie.
Personally I enjoyed the Prelude to the novel which gives the history of Kinraddie and sets the scene for the story of Chris.
And the novel overall is a great achievement on the part of Grassic Gibbon.Makes you proud to be Scottish:)Sunset Song WikipediaSunset Song amazon.co.uk
I was forced to read this book when I was in 5th year at school in Scotland. I despised it. I have no idea why students are given this to study. This is a dull dull book. Fields, farming, more fields, some stepping stones, Long Rob, Chris Guthrie, sighing, pondering, her rosy cheeked bloody face on the cover. Her grunting father wanking outside her door. Christ on a bike... I think at the very least you need grey pubic hair to enjoy this.
A Scottish lament...This first volume of Lewis Grassic Gibbon's trilogy, A Scots Quair, focuses on the life of Chris Guthrie, daughter of a tenant farmer in the fictional estate of Kinraddie in the north-east of Scotland, before and during the First World War. Sunset Song, written in 1932, is generally considered the strongest book in the trilogy and one of the greatest Scottish novels of the twentieth century.
And when war begins, Gibbon handles beautifully the gradual change within the community, from feeling completely detached and uninvolved to slowly finding their lives affected in every way.
One of the best books I've read this year thus far (June 2018). A story quickening, mad, disturbing, and beautiful, and a prose striking and melodic - 'Sunset Song' dwells on some of my favorite subjects in literature: tyrannical parents, covetous and bewildering small communities, coming into maturity, the dying of old ways, the passing of generations, wicked thoughts and terrible acts, and that great breaking between two people, tied by family, who simply cannot see each other as worthy of love. I am sure this book will stay with me and dwell, throughout my mind, forever.
What to say about this magnificent book? This is the first boot of the trilogy A Scots Quair.According to George Malcom Thomson, to whom the book is dedicated, wrote that "this Chris of yours is surely the greatest woman character in Scottish fiction...She is intensely Scottish and yet universal".I just found these little gems: Sunset Song (BBC 1971) Clips 1, 2, 3 and 4.This book was a kind gift by dear friend A aka B.
Unfortunately, Scotland is in reality too wet and cold to do any of this- hence the aching and the longing.Chris Guthrie has been called the voice of Scotland, but I would simple call her the voice of youth.
Grassic Gibbon's narration gets stuck in your head, and you can't get rid of it for weeks after reading this book.
Chae Strachan will forever be one of my favourite characters, but even he cannot compare to Chris herself: she, and this book, will always be with me throughout my life.
I've just ugly-cried my way through the new film of this, so I guess I really ought to read it.
The central character, Chris Guthrie, is a young girl who is destined for more, due to her intelligence, nurtured at school but those assets disregarded by most of the local community due to their dedication in working the land.
Chris is a wonderful character and I really grew to like her.
The mix of English and Scots phrases works well as it is blended well, quite subtlety, and eventually just seems to gather momentum until you are engrossed.
Wee quote here:"So that was Chris and her reading and schooling, two Chrisses there were that fought for her heart and tormented her.
Somewhere I read someone saying 'All Scottish children should read this book'*.
children?
There's an awful lot of real life ...
This is the launch of a life.It is also for anyone deep in a creative writing course (university or otherwise) as the writing style and use of narrative tools will fuel your rebellion.
Read this and answer the question:'If you can produce the highest form of fiction writing without rules - what purpose are the rules serving?'Sunset song is lyrical immersion equaled but never beaten.
Should only people from the US read Moby Dick?
Oh man, why was this book wasted on me in secondary school? I despised it then, but after a bit of growing up can see that it's a beautiful, essential book. The writing, characters and emotions are all powerfully real, hard to believe the author was only in his early thirties. And the sense of a bygone Scotland, recreated in your imagination as you read, is palpable.
This is a hidden gem of the twentieth century. Voted the best book of Scottish Literature, it certainly lives up to its unknown fame. Lyrical and moving, this novel tells of young woman's life as it is torn apart by the coming of womanhood, modernity, and, ultimately, the Great War.
I feel bad for Chris realizing that her old Scotland was going – but at the end of the book, she's marrying the minister: even if Scotland itself had stayed the same, her experience in it would be greatly changed.
Still, remembering this and various rumors passed around the village about him and another woman makes it easier to understand the radical character shift he goes through when returning home on leave from the war later in the book.There's also a scene at one point where Chris's then-paralyzed father (after her mother's suicide) tries ordering Chris to get all Old Testament with him.
It’s not just one or two mere examples, but the entire book from start to finish conveys relevant struggles in Chris’s life.
While clearly some of these things are stretched to the brink of dramatics, there is a point to it all at the end of the day, and it’s one that is easy to understand.Scattered throughout the book are also essences of the Scottish culture and as someone who is quite ignorant of it, these little gems were both amazing and endearing to read about.
Despite the bleakness of the novel, these moments of discovering new words and such were quite pleasant.I hesitate to read the next two novels in the trilogy but am sure will do so in the future as I’m eager to see how Chris’s story evolves.
Ah, Escocia, patria querida.Reconozco que ha sido un libro difícil de leer por todo el vocabulario que comprende el dialecto escocés (y rural), pero una cosa no quita la otra: es una historia bellísimamente contada, prueba de ello son las decenas de páginas señaladas, de esa forma sencilla y entretenida que tienen los escoceses para contar las historias, con una musicalidad en las expresiones que traspasaba el papel.
Una tierra que es sacudida y que queda temblando de frío tras la incomprensible guerra.Por otro lado, los pensamientos y acciones de la protagonista están descritos con una precisión extraña para tratarse de un autor masculino, hasta el punto de robar lágrimas fugaces.
Y todo lo que me recuerda a Lorca ocupa un espacio especial en mí.
In Kinraddie the way of life is tough but fair. Chris Guthrie is torn between her love of the land and her love of books. When her tyrannical father dies she is free to marry, but then the War comes and rips the still beating heart from all she's ever known. A disturbing novel of hypocrisy, sexuality and redemption. Beautiful and heartrending in equal measure. a novel with soul; you can propagandize and still make Art.
The author was also quoted as saying that his aim was, “to mould the rhythms and cadences of Scots spoken speech and to inject in to the English vocabulary such minimum number of words from Braid Scots as that remodeling requires.” The language gives this book an unique and enjoyable personality the likes of which I’ve rarely, if ever, experienced before.Bothy billies = unmarried farm workersFleering = scaring, scoffingHubbley-jock = turkeyJookery-packery = inappropriate behaviorKeek = peepTink = intinerant labourerWame = bellySunset Song starts by describing the history of the Kinraddie area, going all the way back to the 12th century and about thirty minutes later you are fully familiarized with the main inhabitants of the town as of 1911 when the narrative of the main storyline begins.
With the exception of the rather long prologue, which was written in a much more formal style, reading the book gave me no trouble whatever.We follow Chris, a farm girl near the NE coast of Scotland, pre- and during World War I.
Times are hard and life is difficult but Chris is strong.
The first is the educated one who speaks proper English and the second is the peasant girl who loves farming and all of her natural surroundings.The farming community is called Kinraddie and is filled with interesting characters whose lives and attitudes give us a very clear picture of the village dynamics.
If you need to, skip the first chapter about the town's history the first time you read this. After that, be prepared to let an achingly rich sense of a people and a land seep into your bones. I think reading this book changed my genealogy.
Deeply moving and uniquely and beautifully written.
Enjoyed it eventually but struggled with the style of writing. Took a while to warm to Chris and couldn't remember all the characters! Probably won't read rest of trilogy.
Och aye it's a well-hantled tale - 3.5 stars.
I wanted to read it one day - I gave her a miniature version of this book attached to a necklace, that was the purpose.
It wasn't until last year that she passed away and  I used books to come closer to her.
1 - the dialect wasn't going to provide an easy going read and 2.
It felt relatable to read to understand more about life in the highlands in terms of 100 years ago now and also my partner is from a place like that so it was interesting.
She is constrained by circumstances, but she is also constrained by the fact that she feels she is part of the land, so it is not a loss in her eyes.Gibbon is concerned about the crash of Scottish rural life by the oncoming bus of modernity.
The insular rural life is being destroyed by the economy, the automobile and finally by WWI.
Somewhere either in the notes, glossary or intro, there is a quote from the author saying that these words shouldn't impede the reader as the context makes it clear what is meant.
Sunset Song follows the life of Chris Guthrie, a bright and well-read farmer’s daughter who inherits the family farm after her father’s death. In the course of the novel, she rises above her broken and dysfunctional family, falls in love, marries, has a child, is widowed, and marries again. What ties all these life events together is her love of the land and the handful of people around her who farm that land. Sunset Song has some of the most rhythmically beautiful prose I have ever read. Writte
Sunset Song follows the life of Chris Guthrie, a bright and well-read farmer’s daughter who inherits the family farm after her father’s death.
In the course of the novel, she rises above her broken and 	dysfunctional family, falls in love, marries, has a child, is widowed, and marries again.
What ties all these life events together is her love of the land and the handful of people around her who farm that land.
Sunset Song has some of the most rhythmically beautiful prose I have ever read.
Book One of the Trilogy (A Scots Quair) this is the story of Chris Guthrie, a young crofter's daughter on the Kinraddie estate before and during the First World War. The book is listed in the top 100 Scottish novels. Young Chris grows from a young, hopeful girl, to a newly married young woman, and final a widow. It's a bleak story, dealing with the death of the crofter's life in Scotland, but it's a realistic depiction of life at that time. I enjoyed it and look forward to reading books 2 and 3.
