https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208909.The_Arm_of_the_Starfish
This book influenced me to become a scientist. It takes a heck of a lot more skill to write a really good "kid's book" than a best selling adult novel. Madeleine L'Engle once said that when she had something really important to say she put it in a children's book. Not only did this book influence my career choice but I would like to say it reinforced my character. If you only choose the right way when its easy what's the point?
I just love Madeleine L'Engle books.
I've only read her YA and JF books, but the themes aren't childish-- they deal with death, hard choices, and good and evil-- but she doesn't leave you feeling like the world is a horrible place to live.
This book covers hard choices, growing up, learning.
Definitely google the whole poem, I love it.Anyway...liked the book :-)
In The Arm of the Starfish a few of L'Engle's beloved characters from her Newberry Award winning book, A Wrinkle in Time, appear older, wiser and as parents.Meg Murry and Calvin O'Keefe met in Wrinkle, but by Starfish have married, had six children and live on the island of Gaea off of western Europe.
Calvin - now called Dr. O'Keefe - is a successful marine biologist whose discoveries involving the regenerative properties of starfish lead him, his daughter Polly (another of L'Engle's treasured heroines) and his young lab assistant, Adam Eddington, into mortal danger.What sets Starfish apart from L'Engle's other books is that this story is as much a suspenseful thriller as it is science fiction.
The tone of this book is unusual.
It's got a little of that urban otherness that The Young Unicorns has, but that quality is executed better here.
Adam might be suddenly in over his head, but it's mostly believable.
He's great.
And Joshua is EVERYTHING.That's the way things come clear.
All of a sudden.
And then you realize how obvious they've been all along.That line jumps out and hits you - along with that ending - just the way the last paragraph in the Frost poem hits Joshua.My love for this book is slightly irrational, because this is very flawed.
(or as l'engle herself divides them, chronos (austins) and kairos (murrays), with characters intersecting both worlds - canon talis, zachary, and adam.) anyway, i saved this book for a particularly rotten day, thinking that i needed a good comforting pick-me-up-happy-ending book.
(again, her interest in science is so fascinating - and exposes people who think they aren't "into" science or think they don't like it to the grand huge ideas driving science without condescending.) i still love adam, i still wish he came back in later books to polly, instead of vicky, but.
The story is self-contained, but eagle-eyed readers will recognize Poly's father and mother from previous stories, although they serve to support Adam's story here.Going to fulfill half of Seasonal Reading Challenge Task 30.8, item 2, (letters from "…oF the starfish" make a word in a second book's title), in conjunction with The Fifth Season which I am currently reading....Task 25.4 - Nick KY’s Task: White Winter, Yellow Moon.
TAOTS is on p.3 of the list Moon, Sun, and Stars, with Ice Station Zebra.Also, I am attempting to finish last year's goal of finishing the "2017 SciFi and Fantasy Book Club TBR Cleanup Challenge".
This is the fourth book on that list.
It's astonishing that this book was written by the same author as A Wrinkle in Time. Terrible dialogue, boring characters, convoluted plot, and overwrought puppy love so contrived I almost began to rethink my whole Twilight-is-the-worst-love-story-ever position.
Even without background knowledge of the characters from A Wrinkle in Time --Which, honestly, you probably have if you're bothering to read this book--it's pretty obvious to the Reader which are the good guys.
From the initial scene at the airport to the heart-pounding race through the city, we see Adam grow from a lost, bewildered kid to a strong person willing to take risks and make sacrifices--still lost, maybe, but at least knowing the destination.
His bewilderment, and later blooming confidence as he meets each challenge, felt very human and familiar; the only book, in fact, besides The Hobbit that so exactly captures my own experience traveling alone for the first time.And one more note...
I read The Arm of the Starfish as a child 50 years ago; therefore, when I gave up on Madeleine L’Engle’s sequels to A Wrinkle in Time, I thought I’d re-read this book so as to give her another chance.Although some of the characters from that other series pop up (a grown-up Meg Murry and Calvin O’Keefe), readers who begin with The Arm of the Starfish will do just fine without having read A Wrinkle in Time or its inferior sequels.
Readers are advised that they should really do the same before they get to the end of The Arm of the Starfish.
We read every book through the lens of the time we're in -- the time in our lives, the atmosphere of the places we live in and love.
Madeleine L'Engle wrote The Arm of the Starfish in the 1960s, and Adam Eddington's struggle to disentangle right from wrong, truth from lies, remains pointedly, excruciatingly relevant to the current moment -- maybe to every historical moment.
The message of this book is not subtle, and it isn't intended to be; its purpose is to make the obvious, obvious.
L'Engle contends that when conscience nags, listening to it is the bare minimum we can do.
Because that isn't the point.
Intrigue! Espionage! Double agents! I was rather surprised by the rapid appearance of these elements. There are still enough of the usual L'Engle traits recognizable in the O'Keefe family and their actions and beliefs but this book introduces elements of science, politics, morality, and mortality in a way that is different from the author's two other series.
Excellent book. It was slow to get started in the beginning, but the interesting story, characters, and intrigue reeled me in. I love Madeline Le'Engle's work. I know that she writes a lot of it for children, but I think that adults would do well to read her also.
Adam spends a bit too much time trying to make up his mind about whose side to be on, but he doesn't have the benefit of having read the previous books about Meg and Calvin, so it's realistic.
It's nice to fantasize about being a spy and having awesome countersigns from Robert Frost poems, but when it starts actually happening around you and you don't know whom to trust...I think Adam's hesitancy is more or less how most of us really would react in his shoes.For characters, while we don't get much of Meg and Calvin, we do get Canon Tallis and Poly, and the sadly short-lived Joshua.
I recommend it.*This tangent is wholly irrelevant, but: I can't think of many other fictional characters I pure hate as much as Zachary Gray.
Revising July 2016.
Lowering rating to one star, because I don't remember enjoying this in the slightest.
I may revise that rating further if/when I reread it.
Original review from July 2013:Summary; Adam Eddington is a marine biologist.
Other people want to get Dr. O'Keefe's files on his experiments, which involve the regeneration of starfish limbs.
They want to use the technique of regenerating nerve rings on other animals- including people- to make money.
Arm of the Star Fish is not bad, per se, but it was nowhere near as good as A Wrinkle In Time (at least, In my opinion).
Really good young adult fiction here.
Goes up on the list with Z for Zachariah, Ender's Game, and Feed as one of my favorite books written for young people.
A few things I really liked about it:• There was genuine ambiguity in the characters.
I was really confused when Adam got to the O'Keefe's house, and all the family was named after Meg's brothers (and her mother?) and someone else had to explain to me that she had done that, but after I learned that I enjoyed that bit of eccentricity that had been added to her character.
Excellent book! For the first almost-quarter of the book, I thought the story was hackneyed and unimaginative, but as I discovered later, the way-too-coincidental "accidents" that occur early on weren't at all coincidental, and the seemingly-improbable were provided truly plausible and satisfying explanations that managed to resolve conclusively all my uncertainties about the ability of the author. The story progressed with rapidity through a number of unexpected turns. It was pleasingly full of intrigue, action, and questions about morality and common love. It's a good book, worth reading. If you find a copy, read it.
Sigh. One begins to feel very possessive of Adam. Laurie can help me out here since I have not reread some of these for years but didn't M L'E mess up her generations here, making Adam a contemporary of Meg's daughter but also of Vicky Austin, when logically Vicky and Meg should be the roughly the same age.
Finding a way to regenerate missing limbs like starfish, but it wasn't about the research of that at all.
I'm not going to dive into the premise, and I know it was written in the 60s or 70s, but the fem-fatale is getting old, and the fact our seventeen year old main was acting like a creeper and checking out a twelve year old girl, rose the hair on the back of my neck.Also, I thought it might pick up in the end, but the end was people trying to comfort Adam, about him not being responsible for his friends death.
Unlike the other books in the Wrinkle in Time series, this one takes place on Earth and deals mostly with reality, although Dr. O'Keefe's research is in an area that is pure fantasy. Adam is 16 and is working for the summer for Dr. O'Keefe. You see most of the events from his viewpoint. Mostly the book is grim and somewhat dark and the ending was a downer. I was disappointed.
I surprisingly really liked this book. I loved the push and pull that Adam had to go through, and I loved the fight for science. The cover made me think it was going to be lame but it drew me in. I look forward to continuing the series. Good Read!
Pretty good. A little slow to start, and it took me awhile to connect to the characters, but I mostly enjoyed it. It ends on a cliffhanger, so have the next one ready to read!
Although I have had this book on my shelves for a while, I had never read it all the way through. Even though it isn't my favorite L'Engle, I am glad I read it, finally.
All around lovely. By far my favorite of the four books of hers that I've read so far! Can't wait to dive into the next one.
Of course Wrinkle in Time is the author's most famous work. If you liked that, especially if you liked the sociology and the philosophy, you might enjoy this. It's about and for older children, and it's Cloak & Dagger instead of Science Fiction & Fantasy, but it's still good. In fact, in some ways it's better, as it's written with more developed skill. Engaging & thought-provoking. I just wish the O'Keefes were more than window dressing. I do see it's a series, and maybe I'll read more.
Adam was recommended by a friend to work for Dr. O’Keefe and has no idea what he signed up for.
When he reaches the O’Keefe family he finds himself welcomed and he learns to trust and love them like his own family, but now he is already in over his head and in serious danger.
He finds himself learning to trust that beautiful girl he met on his trip, her attractions are more than he can resist, but what side is she really on?One day Adam is asked by Dr. O’Keefe to deliver some very important papers to a friend were they will be safe.
Synopsis:Sixteen-year-old Adam Eddington, a gifted marine biology student, is en route to Portugal for a summer job assisting renowned scientist Dr. Calvin O’Keefe when he encounters gorgeous Kali Cutter in an airport.
Through a whirlwind of necessarily instantaneous decisions and their consequences, Adam learns a great deal about human nature, wisdom, trust and forgiveness.
Comments:This is a very fast-paced story, one of those that would ideally be read in one sitting.
The violence (a kidnapping, a shark attack, and a shooting) could be disturbing to some, and the complexity of the story line a bit difficult to follow, so I would recommend it for teens or older.
I read this book many years ago, and only had a fairly vague memory of the story before picking it up to re-read now.
I found myself wanting to spend more time getting to know the other characters, and living some of their parts in the story, and was frustrated we kept going around and around Adam's own recurring doubts instead.
I'm none-the-less glad I read the book, with it's tiny little window into the lives of Meg and Calvin years after their adventures in 'A Wrinkle in Time'.
I was cruising Amazon looking for something to purchase for around 4 bucks to get free shipping and stumbled across Madeleine L'Engle's name in the book section.
i hadn't thought of her in years, and while i was sorely tempted to buy the Wrinkle in Time box set, I finally concluded Caleb was a bit too young to really appreciate Charles Wallace, his sister Meg and their adventures.
i suppose i may just end up with the Wrinkle trilogy again [although apparently there are 5 or 6 books in that series, I never knew].
As a disclaimer, I'm not a reader of sci-fi/fantasy or suspense, so I have no great childhood love for Madeleine L'Engle.
But L'Engle does a lot of telling rather than showing.
And there's an uncomfortable scene wherein twelve-year-old Poly wears a bathing suit too mature for her and laments to her father about her lack of development.
The very next day, sixteen- (seventeen?) year-old Adam notices indeed that Poly isn't as undeveloped as she thinks she is.
If Poly had been a couple years older, Adam's noticing her would not have felt uncomfortable, but as it was, these scenes seemed out of place to me.
Like, I see now that it wouldn't have been that big of a deal for Temis to lose a finger--doubtless the natives would have been used to that--certainly not worth possibly giving her a flesh-devouring disease.
And it is hard NOT to read gay subtext between Adam and Joshua.
Which casts doubt on all my queer readings of every book ever.
Also I have started to read Calvin as being possibly mentally-ill, a conspiracy theorist and wacko of the kind that builds his family a cabin in Idaho.
