https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567782.How_to_Read_a_Person_Like_a_Book
وكذلك تعاملنا المتواصل مع البائعين والعملاء والمندوبين نحتاج احياناً لفهم لغة الجسد فمنهم من يصطاد في الماء العكر ولاسيما حين يكون المشتري شخص متردد ويسهل استغلاله او الخجول الذي يشتري مالا يرغب فيه وغيرهم من الامور...نحتاج الى معرفة بعض الإيماءات الخاصة بالاشخاص المعروفين في حياتنا ودائمين التواجد بيننا وكثيرين التعامل معاً حتى نتخطى بعض المشاكل التي تواجهنا معهم فقط من خلال دراسة لغة جسدهم المتحدثة بصمت او كما تسمى بلغة الا لفضي في هذا الكتاب #كيف_تقرأ_شخصاً_مثل_الكتاب تتعرف على الكثير من الايماءات فمتى يكون الشخص محبط او مكتئب او يشعر بالملل من هذا الحديث او يستاذ بإيمائه لتناول اطراف الحديث من الشخص المتحدث او لايشعر بالرحه او هناك امر يقلقه او الواثق من نفسه وكذلك المراوغ وغيرهم من الامور التي ذكرها الكتّاب بصورة سلسله وموضحه كذلك ببعض الرسومات التوضيحية ليسهل على القارئ معرفتها..#الكتاب..لغته سلسلة جداً ويملك اسلوب لايصال الفكرة بصورة واضحه ومفهومة..
By being observant, one can gain a truer assessment of what a person is trying to convey.
This book seeks to draw your attention to the body language of people, and gain a increase insight into their true mental state.
From a simple nose scratch, to a chin rub, to high/low folded arms, to all the other subtle moments that add up to complete sentences as to what a person is feeling is covered in detail in this book.
For those who think they know how to read a person, this book will supplement what you think you know, and for those that can't take a hint this text will only add to your social grace.
After reading it, I found myself in a meeting and the person on the other side of me did one of the moves and it was exactly for the reason the book stated (ear pull).
It was exciting and it gave me an opportunity to stop talking and let the person tell me what they loved about the idea we were discussing.
On the other side, it's VERY dated (discusses smoking in meetings) and that includes some absurd sexism.
For example, if someone frowns and is hunched over and may be crying and is talking about how they aren't happy, then they aren't happy.
I Read the translated version of the Arabic and it was boring !!!
Actual Ratings: 2.75
Well.. I re read this one and it has some useful information but I have read a few of these. I think it's a little dated maybe. Not that body language changes all that much but I have read more comprehensive books on the subject.Joe Navarro would be good to check out for books in this genre. I also have another one (some woman who is a lawyer who picks juries' check my book shelf I forgot her name) is much more detailed and helpful. Decent but not the best out there. Very basic intro at best.
This was a good book. I thought this would be more in depth. Also, It doesn't add much to the basics of analysis, most of the things illustrated in this book is known to everyone of common else. I do believe that one gesture or posture has more than one meaning or referring.
بالنسبه لي هالكتاب يعتبر مرجع
it's very interesting.. although there are words that i don't understand.
It is remarkable, given the extent to which communication is nonverbal, that we are often so unobservant about it, but at least I can say that I know a few people who are quite insightful about my body language and gestures, even if they are not the sort of people I would most wish to be able to read me like a book.In under 200 pages, the author manages to give an entertaining discussion of gestures and body language that looks at how we use nonverbal communication in a variety of ways.
This book explains in detail how a body language spoken through out many situations, whether you are presenting, negotiating, or even on casual conversation.Very informative with lots of pictures given for easier understanding
I'm starting to like non-fiction a lot recently, i have been reading a lot of books that teaches youngsters how to be good leaders when they grow up.
This book is great because it teaches the readers how to read body language.
This book is your guide to help you watch out for certain people in this world, who is powerful?
Like when you are going to a job interview or any type of interview you would know what gesture or body posture you should make to impress your new boss!
This book is great!!!
Out of all the beneficial books I have read, this is definitely one of the top.
It doesn't give you groundbreaking information but merely sheds a light on gestures we use everyday; gestures that we probably are already aware of intuitively.
If a person uses a defensive gesture, for example, they completely turn off - put up a barrier and nothing you say will go through to them.Overall, a pretty light read and it's pretty amusing.
not a boring how-to or self-improvement book but written rather well with interesting little stories and pictures that convey a better meaning to gestures and gesture clusters.
How To Read a Person Like a Book is an investment that will reap you rewards in far more ways than you can imagine.This is a 'manual' of body language.
In addition, they contain sketches of body language situations.
A very enjoyable read that most definitely has taught me a lot on how to 'read' people.
After reading this I can gauge a person/group's subconscious communication - and also understand my own.
Understanding body language is important in business and social relationships - and it can be the factor that will enhance the relationships that you have with people.
Will definitely give a re-read.
this book was just fine. this book tells you how to read gestures. it is an informative book. but this book is not very interesting for kids. I think that adults would enjoy it better. if you are a person who is interested in activities related to speaking like debate and elocution I would suggest this book for you.
I read it in one day, and afterwards, I felt like I sort of had the upper hand over people who don't constantly observe the body language of others.
To keep this review brief, here are my top three Pro's and Con's of "How to Read a Person Like a Book":Pro's:1.Fast & Easy Read2.
Easily Applicable (meaning once you learn to read certain body language clusters, it's easy to know what the person may be feeling)3.
The book was a fast read, and although that is a Pro, I wanted more!2.
Overall, this book was a very interesting read.

I'm not naturally sensitive or empathetic, so I like reading books that explain and pinpoint human behavior so that I can react and cope with others better. By knowing what people say through what they don't, it will help me better react to other people in conversations. I also become more cognizant of what I show these people, so that I can react accordingly.
Great books for everyoneThe book covers the basic in identifying a hidden message behind the gestures of our counterparts. It is great for everyone who wish to understand the other (e.g client, spouse, children, audiences, etc) in a better way, through the reading of the gestures.
This is a good beginner's guide to everything to do with body-language. Very informative, and everything is categorised nicely into emotion clutters, but it could get a little overwhelming when you are overload with information. All in all, it's a good read to get you started with non-verbal cues.
An informative book. Says a lot about gestures that we use in our everyday life.
Interesting insights into how gestures are used to communicate
this one is indeed very helpful in trying to understand a language that everybody uses but nobody speaks - body talk
الترجمة سيئة جدا، وهو يحوي معلومات جيده ولكن ليست بالحجم المطلوب.
Interesting book with plenty of insights which would be very useful in optimizing the information between those non verbal communications.
مُفيد نوعاً ما .. وليس كثيراً أجدهُ بسيط وبديهي جداً كــ معلومات معروفة ومُكررة .،
رائع
معلومات كلها اعرفهابس طريقة التقديم حلوة و تشد القارىء
Informative indeed. Some of the gestures mentioned are already known but i am still glad to know more.
Interesting and informative, yet somehow wasn't enough to satisfy me! The author repeated his ideas over and over again. However, it's a quick read so i recommend it.
