https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61665.Billions_Billions
ما الذي يمكنك قوله عن كتاب تشاهد فيه ابتسامة واحد من أعز الناس على قلبك وهي تخفتما الذي يمكنك فعله و
Carl Sagan writes about many topics in this book, but manages to make them all readable and understandable.
He really clearly lays out his thoughts and makes hard to understand concepts reachable in science and mathematics.
He makes what is probably the most logical argument I have ever read in the abortion debates about our need to decide what makes us human and determine at what point that happens.
The world needs more intellectuals that don't blindly side with party lines, but look at facts and evidence.
We need more people to stand up and honestly educate people about what is happening in our world.
Posljednja knjiga koju je Sagan napisao prije svoje prerane smrti. U ovom djelu veliki humanist iznosi svoje viđenje nekoliko svjetskih problema, kao i svoju viziju poterncijalnih rješenja. Ražalostolo me zapravo, što se u dva desetljeća otkad je djelo napisano toliko malo pomaklo na bolje. strah, paranoja, iracionalnost, fanaticizam i zatvaranje očiju pred dugotrajnim rješenjima radi kratkotrajne koristi vladaju svijetom više nego ikada. Ima li nade za nas?
I liken Carl Sagan's explanation of physics, mathematics and astronomy in Billions and Billions and all his books to what Steven Pinker did for the field of linguistics in The Language Instinct: he takes extraordinarily complex phenomena and breaks them down so the intelligent reader fascinated by such quandaries, but who just didn't have the passion to study them academically, can understand and muse upon.
I used Pinker's work when teaching linguistics in graduate school, and I could see physics and astronomy faculty using Sagan for the same reason: to bring an inspiring and brilliant introduction to life's largest questions to curious minds.
(Hansen is the NASA climate researcher credited for "discovering" global warming.)Happily, in Part 3, "Where Hearts and Minds Collide," Sagan includes more timeless essays covering the politics of abortion, basic morality, a powerful address at the Gettysburg peace memorial rededication, and a useful look back at the accomplishments of the twentieth century.
These display Sagan at his best, and are reminiscent of the sustained intellectual wonder that is his best book The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark (1995).Sagan closes with one of the most affecting short essays I have ever read, "In the Valley of the Shadow," where he recounts his battles over the disease that killed him after he finished Billions and Billions but before it was published.
The core premise of Sagan's final book is, to paraphrase an old Native American saying, "We have not inherited the Earth from our ancestors, but have borrowed it from our children." So stop the F screwing it up.Presented as 3 parts of 19 essays in total, some of the essays, especially in the first part, are similar to the material he covered in Cosmos: cosmology and the vastness of space, our history as a species, general physics, life outside Earth.
He takes a gentle hand, which I think bespeaks desperation in his last years, his last chance to nudge the ball forward amidst tangible fear that forceful will be deemed strident, erudite will sound preachy, and warning the bitter rantings of an old Cassandra.
Carl knows he's on the losing team, he loves humanity, and deeply fears our suicide by institutional stupidity, the tragedy of the commons, and Tainter's unwindable commitment to technological complexity beyond the point of diminishing returns.Stale stuff, understood by all in my echo chamber, thus barely worth repeating, maybe.
Do you know the thing about Cassandra?
His chapter/essay, entitled "The Twentieth Century," is one of the most insightful summaries of what the universe is that I ever read.
But I see the mergence in our consciousness of a Universe of a magnificence, and an intricate, elegant order far beyond anything our ancestors imagined.
My own view is that it is far better to understand the Universe as it really is than to pretend to a Universe as we might wish it be."Just think if this were the type of book students actually studied in school and their parents studied in churches?
Six times now have I looked Death in the face.
And six times Death has averted his gaze and let me pass.
Eventually, of course, Death will claim me - as he does each of us.
And how.I've learned much from our confrontations - especially about the beauty and sweet poignancy of life, about the preciousness of friends and family, and about the transforming power of love.
Far better, it seems to me, in our vulnerability, is to look Death in the eye and to be grateful every day for the brief but magnificent opportunity that life provides.
I will never tire of reading Carl Sagan's thoughts on anything and everything.We’ve been here for only about a million years, we, the first species that has devised means for its self-destruction.
We are rare and precious because we are alive, because we can think as well as we can.
We are privileged to influence and perhaps control our future.
There is no cause more urgent, no dedication more fitting than to protect the future of our species.
كتاب رائع مهما خالفت معتقداتك افكار كارل ساجان لاتستطيع الا ان تحترمه وتحب فيه انسانيته وشغفه بالعلم وبتوعية الآخرين..الكتاب رائع والمقالات جدا مؤثرة تأخذك الى مستوى مختلف تماما من الوعي والشعور بالمسؤلية حول كوكب الارض وتأثيرنا فيه كبشر ..وينبهك الى خطورة الاسلحة النووية وكيف ان وجودها يمسنا بشكل شخصي ومباشر..اما نهاية الكتاب فقد كانت شديدة التأثير وموجعة حيث تصدمك بفكرة المرض والموت والجدوى من الحياة وقيمة الحب بمواقف من حياة الكاتب نفسه الذي فارق الحياة .. كارل ساجان مازال يضيء عقول الآخرين حتى بعد ان غادر
Sagan can be a little repetitive but that doesn't mean his words carry no less value. The chapter on abortion is worth your time if you've ever been even mildly divided on the issue, which you should be. Also, I teared up on the bus reading In The Valley of the Shadow, which documents Sagan's fatal battle with myelodysplastic syndrome.
What a great book. It was well written and really touched on a variety of different topics. Though it is dated now, I still feel that I gained a lot by reading it. And the last two chapters where he talked about his disease and views on death really struck deep with me.
Carl Sagan was not only a successful, fun, approachable educator and astronomer, but he was also great author which keeps the reader excited and curious to move to the next chapter... then close the book and think what he just told you!
-Un poco de cada cosa, llamada de atención y testamento en muchos sentidos.-Género. Ensayo (pero “blando”, de divulgación científica).Lo que nos cuenta. Recopilación de distintos ensayos de la última parte de la producción (y la vida) del autor, divididos en tres bloques distintos que hablan del universo, de las amenazas tanto al ecosistema como a la convivencia internacional y de asuntos mucho más cercanos y personales en el último bloque, incluyendo el propio camino de Sagan hacia el final de sus días.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
It then touches on social and environmental issues, how people react to them, and what kind of things we do right and wrong when faced with science versus our comfortable beliefs about the planet.
There's the almost obligatory devotion to one of Sagan's favorite subjects, the possibility of extraterrestrial life.
The impression one gets throughout the whole book, no matter the subject of the text or the personal opinion of the reader, is the totally infectious nature of Sagan's awe and curiosity about the world in which we live, and even more about the Universe in which the world turns.
و لان "كارل سيغان" يمثل العالم (بكسر اللام) المثالي لكثير من العلماء و الهواة الذين يؤمنون بالعلم، فهو لا بد أن يتحدث عن الاستخدام السيء و الجيد للعلوم و التقنيات التي ابتكرها الانسان و خصوصا في القرن العشرين، حيث يبدء في القسم الثاني بالتحدث عن الإستخدم السيء لهذه العلوم و المشاكل التي تواجه البشرية بسببها كإرتفاع درجة حرارة الكوكب و ظهور الثقب في طبقة الاوزون و إستخدم الأسلحة النووية و غيرها من المخاطر التي قد تكون مدمرة لكوكبنا.
و كل ذلك كتب بلغة "كارل سيغان" البسيطة.
Thought provoking. And honestly? More than a little disheartening. A big chunk of this book deals with the CFC disaster of the 80's-90's and the parallels to be drawn between that and current climate change...going from the analysis of the threat, to the denial by big business, to the penalties coming to fruition, before FINALLY, some change being made. It was....honestly a little depressing. And I'm not sure that's a situation that'll get better anytime soon. Recommended for food for thought.
The book is definitely not even close to Cosmos or The Dragons of Eden in a strict literary sense.It contains broken linkages to chapters and sometime overstated facts but on the brighter side,we get to see Carls's inner family life and his brave battle with Myelodysplasia.
His literary powers may seem to be on a decline, but his passion and conviction to spread awareness for a cause in undiminished and far from satiation.I would still recommend this book for it contains final thoughts, efforts and emotions of Carl Sagan, a great thinker, explorer and astronomer.
Billions and Billions, which was the last book of the one and only, Carl Sagan includes 19 different essays on subjects like history of the cosmos, science and mankind, danger of nuclear weapons, ozone layer disappearing, relationship between science and religions, abortion, and especially his personal fight with the disease that took his life away from yhis world.
I love the way he reasoned his arguments with simple explanation and eye-opening examples.
Carl Sagan is lost forever, but his legacies survive within many scientists and other professionals who were inspired by him.
Thank you, Carl Sagan.
Carl Sagan en sevdiğim bilim insanıdır. Onun gökbilim için yaptıkları, insanın geleceği için kaygıları, evrenin gizemini çözmek için yanıp tutuşan kalbi beni her zaman derinden etkilemiştir. Daha önce Karanlık Bir Dünyada Bilimin Mum Işığı kitabını okuduğum için bu kitabı onunla kıyaslıyorum haliyle. Karanlık Bir Dünyada... bu kitaba göre daha derli toplu ve daha tematikti. Bu kitap ise daha dağınık ve takip etmesi dolayısıyla daha zor bir derleme. En fazla kürtajla ilgili olan makaleyi sevdiğimi söyleyebilirim. Ancak Sagan, yine bir bilim insanının olması gerektiği gibi tarafsızlığı elden bırakmadan, elindeki durumu verilere dayanarak ve çok yönlü düşünerek yansıtıyor tüm makalelerde.
ماذا ستكتب وأنت على سرير الموت ؟ عن المستقبل فى الغالب أي مستقبل ؟ عادة مستقبل العائلة و هذا ما فعله
Some of the essays were wonderful, some I really didn't enjoy. The book was also not what I was expecting. The last few chapters and epilogue, describing his illness and his death left me ugly crying in front of strangers on a train. Regardless of my like or dislike for this particular book, Sagan was a wonderful human, and the world is absolutely better off for having had him in it.
Un alegato a la vida repleto de esperanza, un recorrido crítico a la historia de la Humanidad y los descubrimientos científicos, y una reflexión sobre cómo podríamos hacer de este un lugar mejor para vivir.
"" قد أتمنى الأعتقاد بأنني عندما أموت سوف أحيا من جديد، بأن التفكير في جزء تركته خلفي والشعور به وتذكره سيستمر بعد وفاتي، وبقدر ما أرغب في الإيمان بذلك، ورغم التراث الثقافي القديم والمنتشر في العالم كله الذي يؤكد على وجود حياة بعد الموت، لا أعرف شيئاً يوحي بأن ذلك يتجاوز توقع الأماني"" يبدو لي أنه من الأفضل نظراً لقابليتنا على العطب، أن ننظر للموت وجهاً لوجه وأن نقر بالجميل كل يوم لتلك الفرصة الوجيزة ولكن العظيمة التي تمدنا بها الحياة"" إذا كان هناك درس تعلمته بدقة فهو أن المستقبل لا يمكن التنبؤ به "لهذا الكتاب ثلاثة أجزاء بفصول متعددة لمواضيع مختلفة، تحدث عن أحتمالية وجود حياة خارج الارض وعن الظروف المناخية لكوكب المريخ و تيتان قمر زحل، تطرق لأهم المشاكل البيئية التي تواجه كوكبنا الأم من ارتفاع درجة حرارة الكوكب نتيجة للتلوث الجوي بالغازات المسببة للتصوب، وحالما يتحدث عن التصوب فلا بد من الحديث عن ثقب طبقة الأوزون الذي يسمح بدخول الاشعة الكونية الضارة، لجو الارض، مثل الاشعة فوق البنفسجية المسببة لسرطان الجلد ولكثير من الامراض ..
Carl Sagan talks about dozens of varied subjects like space exploration, climate change, inequality, arms race, abortion rights etc, in such an empathetic and harmonizing voice that masks the bitterness these divisive debates have generated over the years and still does.
None of the thoughts and musings he share may sound new to someone reading it two decades later.
He wrote this in a distant age when the internet and mobile phone technology were in their infancy, which later grew into proportions that even Sagan who thought in the scales of 'billions and billions' could hardly fathom then.
No meio de todas as coisas que eu leio, confesso que não são muitos os livros que me impressionam e me fazem refletir para muito além do momento da leitura.
E não são muitos os livros que me ensinam enquanto me fazem rir.
E, devo dizer, é menor ainda a quantidade de livros que fazem com que eu queira ser uma pessoa melhor (para mim mesma, para os outros, para os outros seres vivos, para o planeta, para o mundo).
Todos os livros que eu li do Sagan (este, Contato e O mundo assombrado pelos demônios) me deixaram com essa mesma sensação de maravilhamento.
Carl Sagan's final book, finished up shortly before his untimely death in 1997.
Because of that some of the science presented in the book has been surpassed in the last 20 years.
But most of his conclusions, and fears, have continued along much the same paths as he discussed in the book, global warming, pollution and uncontrolled population growth.
As with most books of this type I was totally engrossed by the hard science topics and less so by most of the 'soft science' discussion.
Still, overall I enjoyed reading this and will defiantly read any other books by Dr Sagan that I come across.
Sagan's "compete with one another in good works" graf: "Let us vie in art and science, in music and literature, in technological innovation. Let us have an honesty race. Let us compete in relieving suffering and ignorance and disease; in respecting national independence worldwide; in formulating and implementing an ethic for responsible stewardship of the planet."
the final two chapters - “In The Valley of the Shadow” and Ann Druyan’s epilogue - are potentially the most heartbreaking, thoughtful, fiercely loving things i have ever read. a worthy legacy for a most great, kind, and brilliant mind.
