https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257649.Sexual_Politics
Revived Review to commemorate the passing of Kate Millett, Feminist critic, 1934-2017.(Thanks to David Schaafsma for the gentle reminder.)**************************** Yes, it's Week Four of STRICTLY COME NOVELISTS(note - this is the British version of DANCING WITH THE NOVELISTS)Tess Daley (blondly) : And here, dancing the American smooth with his partner Ola Jordan, is Count Leo Tolstoy.(Music : From Russia with Love.
It ruined D H Lawrence for me, but we all get somewhere we realize our favorite author is sexist, especially those who had good women in their lives and I don't know why.If you like feminist literary criticism and if you don't mind your favorite authors being criticized,you will definitely like this. It's super fluid and fun and feminist.
Millet takes on Freud, too, and that now seems obvious, but when she wrote of Freud in this way--Freud, the Father of Psychoanalysis, who wrote in maybe his last letter, "What is it women really want?!"--it was a kind of revelation.
Millett sees lurking sexism and even misogyny in what was initially perceived as the literature of sexual liberation.
Liberation for whom, Millett asked?Probably Simone de Beauvoir, who of course preceded Millett, was the Mother of Feminist Studies/Women/Gender studies, but this book was just as important.
Imagine how Millet's death and the reminder of her analysis will take the fun out of my listening to Charles Bukowski's Women, damn it.
Everyone always says that this book founded feminist literary studies even though OBVIOUSLY Simone De Beauvoir was the real founder with her essays on several of the same authors in Second Sex. I know it's not as fun to think so though since she founded EVERYTHING else already. However, Sexual Politics is mind-blowingly brilliant. One of the few literary theory books which leaves you analyzing the patterns of your own life and recognizing underlying structures you instictively knew, but could not name. Highly recommended.
An eyeopener. Moving, so scanning in some books. My favorite ones. After reading this, I swore off Mailer and H. Miller forever. Met Kate later, when she was making art in a studio in the East Village. My idea of an artistic rebel.
Em honra de Kate Millett (1934 - 2017)Uma dos baluartes da segunda onda feminista, Millett reverberou tudo que havia de errado com o backlash pós-sufrágio que as feministas sofreram no século XX e essa é uma tentativa de desmistificar tudo que o saber-poder masculino tentou nos impingir durante séculos.A primeira parte do livro abrange todo o período histórico e cultural considerado como a primeira revolução sexual, de 1830 a 1930, Wollstonecraft, Mill, Engels, Charlotte Bronte, Thomas Hardy, George Meredith, Oscar Wilde, Ibsen são contrapostos a Rossetti, Ruskin, Tennyson no delinear de como eram vistas as mulheres no século XIX e o que historicamente estava acontecendo nos EUA e Inglaterra para que as coisas mudassem com as sufragetes.
It is very easy, but to do it eloquently, lucidly, and with the goal of creating a measuring stick for sexual politics is a feat to celebrate, not to mention that it is admirable, interesting and worth discussing.
Her focus and drive are scholastic and betray a huge respect for philosophical argument and for the history of the sexual revolution.
As individual criticisms and overarching historical documentation, maybe they have been done before, and maybe even have been done better by some, but as an introduction to feminist history and a scathing review of some of the literary giants, it stands alone.
Holy shit, this book was better than I could ever imagine. Kate Millett is a badass super genius.
It is a book that has started the second wave (or third depending which academic you follow) of feminism and as such it has already historical value. It is a fascinating read, even today.
With so much negativity in the world, it is enjoyable to reflect on how much has been achieved - I had to keep in mind the position of women in 1960 as I was reading this - but also useful to have some flags as to how progress on women's rights is resisted and dialled back.It is an academic book but easily accessible.
I would like to read Genet so don't want the details spoiled.It's a big book and a lot to take on, but can be easily read in sections and is definitely worth it.
This was the book that made me fall back in love with feminism.Feminism as in "the centuries-long project to improve women's lot", not "what the pink-haired kids are doing these days."Kate Millett is a rational person who looks at sexual norms and asks "Why?" Do we *really* think Freud's theories were plausible?
I like looking for biological or economic explanations rather than cultural ones; there's something that creeps me out about seeing humans as the puppets of vast social forces; but, for a cultural critic, Millett is *unusually* clean and straightforward in her thinking, and doesn't ask us to believe in much unprovable hoodoo.
There is always something so depressing about reading key feminist texts from more than four decades ago and realising that we're still dealing with the same old crap.
That said, being angered is good, because it expands your mind and your opinions and makes you see things in a clearer light.
I think the main difficulty of this book is that it combines literary commentary with strong feminist theory, meaning that much of the literary content will be of little interest to those reading solely for Millett's excellent criticism of real world situations.
That said, I found those bits generally interesting, and appreciate the glimpses of Mailer and Miller so that I know not to bother with them ;p
Published in 1970, Sexual Politics was the first academic take on feminist literary criticism.
The book was based on Millett's PhD dissertation, in which she dissected the work of D.
H. Lawrence, Norman Mailer, and Henry Miller, among others.
Millett pointed out how the three authors wrote about women in a sexist way.
The book added fuel to the second wave of feminism, which had started in the early 60s.
The book was controversial, receiving national attention and a strong backlash from men.
It was life changing in how it showed how many men regard women and how women are depicted in fiction.
The founding text, or opening salvo, of feminist literary criticism. It's kind of odd to think that forty years ago, this critique of modern authors' blithe (and often quite funny) gender assumptions was new; today it's the universal property of well-read college humanities majors, even if they've never heard of Kate Millett. But it's still a great read.
Wonderful 1970 classic breakdown of male domination through an examination of literature: Mailer, Miller, Freud, Hardy, and more. Essential as an early feminist literary criticism piece correlating the stories that get told and the effects in the real world.
The misogyny she examines was too much for me to finish the last few chapters. A feminist must-read.
This book is absolutely engaging.
She finishes up with Jean Genet, whom she reads as subverting and exposing the sexual politics of male supremacy.Some of Millett’s theories have gone out of favor in the nearly 50 years since this book was published.
At any rate one of the most fascinating and infuriating things about the book is how little has changed when it comes to male supremacy in the years since its publication.
Millett’s Pollyanna afterword, praising the second wave and anticipating great changes to come, is a little depressing to read from my vantage.
Saying that women having clitoris means that we should be liberal in our sexual activity backlashes her previous statement.
Second, as a second-wave feminist myself, I'm now more inclined to believe that celibacy for heterosexual women is in line with feminist values than that of becoming sexually active.
Being sexually active in this type of society, I believe, would not liberate women fully from oppression.Despite everything, "Sexual Politics" is a great introductory book towards feminism, especially for literary scholars.
This is one of the landmarks of feminist body of thought, and I'm thankful that Millett ever wrote it, after all.
Groundbreaking when it came out, roughly 50 years later it is a great primer to the thoughts of the Second Wave of Feminism. Dated and some of her presumptions were proven right.
Wow. Just wow. A feminist classic indeed. Shows how far we've come and how far we've yet to go.
revealing study of patriarchy, the first wave of feminism, how it affected society, and was reflected in early to mid-twentieth century literature.a key feminist text.
If steam isn't coming out of your ears after reading this one, there's no hope for you.
Review To Come
This book is a key feminist work, and encourages one to just think of the world through a different lens.
An enlightening overview of the history of women's rights accompanied by an analysis of literary representations of women by male writers.
This text is a must read for anyone interested in feminism.
I’m not an academic, so I don’t know if functionalism is still a big thing, but I doubt it.It is pretty entertaining to read how much of sociology and psychology over the years really just boiled down to men being like, “If only women would just accept that they’re supposed to be lovey-dovey baby ovens they wouldn’t all be so goddamned angry and depressed about it all the time!” Overall, while it was necessary and important for Millett to write Sexual Politics when she wrote it, I doubt many people will get a lot out of revisiting it now.Should you read it?
Millet's voice is calm and strong, her ideas and criticism well-supported, her writing tidy and neat.
This is the best feminist writing I have read so far, both in tone and in form.She is not trapped in the idea to write it all about woman-history-culture.
She chooses a point of view and focuses on it, works on it.She studies the first wave feminism, sexual revolution in the second half of 19th century.
Ends her work with feminist readings on a pack of misogynist authors.
I had this book in my list for years as classic of second-wave feminist thought and after finishing it, I am simply blown away by the quality of Millett’s work.
H. Lawrence, Henry Miller and Normal Mailer to task for the attitudes towards women that their books and essays demonstrate.
Her meticulous unpacking of the regressive notions that permeate their writing are simply eye-opening and serve as a great platform for discussing the general attitudes toward women that the contemporary society held.
Her takedown of Freud’s regressive notions regarding women’s psyche was just brilliant and the best criticism of Freud’s theories that I have read to date.
