https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31334.Belinda
This is one of the lesser-lesser known works by the authoress Anne Rice, written under her least common pen name. On the surface, Belinda seems to resemble Nabakov's famous work Lolita, but the character dimension has Rice's typical sparkle, the intimate scenes are more vivid and realistic, and the more modern setting makes it more accessible for many. This book is a shade more controversial and patently sexual than most of the Vampire Chronicles, but less so than the Beauty Trilogy, so if you are coming from either series, don't expect the same style.
He has her wash her makeup off and model with a dollhouse in a little girl nightgown, and notes that she looks "like a 6-year-old" in the face, which gets him hard.
At one point Belinda goes missing, and Jeremy's friend says:"And I don't care how many teen sex flicks they crank out every day down there in Tinseltown, you're forty-five and you fucked a teenager and you won't say you're sorry, and your goddamn paintings are selling, that's what's making them mad.
November 16 2009So much to say about this book and so many reasons why I loved it.If you pick up this book keep an open mind.
Jeremy is not a perv and this is no regular 16 year old girl.
I could actually see the movie in my head as I was reading.
Belinda's letter to Jeremy is so great.
This is a book that I could read again and probably will.
I loved it.
I loved it.
I did pick up on a few things.
I didn't think Jeremy was 5 years older that GG.
Read it!
Read it!
Even with my generous suspension of disbelief, this was unrealistic and ridiculous. I think Anne Rice wrote it just to enjoy imagining the sex.
This continues to be one of my all time favourite books.
Forget everything you thought you knew about an Anne Rice novel.
No vampires or the like to be found here.
Actually, what lies within this book is a very engaging story about a teenage girl and her love affair with a middle-aged children's author.
Yes, I know that last sentence has this sounding more like some sick pedophile story-time rather than the gripping and heart-breaking novel that this is.
This book stands alone by being totally unlike anything else she's written.
The first thing that comes to mind of course is the inevitable comparison to Lolita though the protagonist in Belinda, immensely popular but dissatisfied children's author Jeremy Walker, has so many kinks and fetishes for his baby-mouthed nymphette that, as one of the characters wryly observes, he could make Humbert Humbert rise up from the dead.Belinda can also easily read as a wildly entertaining, trashy Hollywood novel to rival Valley of the Dolls or Hollywood Wives.
The red face may also have been because I was a 16-year-old girl who frequently lust after men in their thirties and forties, reading a story about a man lusting after and eventually falling in love with someone my age.
Nothing like haveing a double guilty conscious, eh?In any case, there is Art, there is a debate over art vs obscenity, there is beautiful description, there is a compelling love story that at the same time makes you want to step back, and a hot topic plot.
sounds like a good read to me!
Ann Rice writes erotica with the same intensity as she does with her Vampire Novels. Jeremy Walker, a handsome and famous 44-year old illustrator of children's books becomes totally obsessed with>>Belinda the ultimate fantasy. A golden-haired object of desire, fresh and uninhibited. A forbidden passion, both beguiling and bewitching and someone he cannot keep his mind nor hands off of.
This one was probably the first nail in the coffin that was my fandom of Rice's work, the last being the abysmal 'Angel Time.' Not sexy, even remotely, this book is about satutory rape, plain and simple.
While I was reading it I was, for whatever reason, able to rationalize it, but the moment I put the book down it clicked with me that this girl was 16, I became pretty grossed out.
Please skip this, don't encourage any writer to publish anything that contributes to the sexualization of young girls and help prop up our rape culture.
Let me begin by saying my standards for Anne Rice under any of her names is incredibly high.
She brought me Lestat and my Louis, absorbed me in her world of witches .
It certainly takes the twists and turns one expects from Rice, but the quality of writing, the total immersion, the characters that linger in your heart just were not there.
The character developement was there, but not on the level I needed, I didn't find myself caring much about Belinda or Jeremy even at the end.
Implausible. Unrealistic. Saccharine. A bit smutty. It's been called Lolita-esque, but Rice isn't even close to the writer Nabakov was. It's been called erotic, but I didn't find it so. It's been called seductive, but I was not seduced.There's no depth to this story. No reason either of these characters would fall in love. This is like Anne Rice put some typical sexual fantasy into words and published it because she could.
I shall do so right now, though it's a year late.)While shrill, squeamish readers seem to dismiss BELINDA as fetishized tripe, this is an interesting character study -- also a beautifully written story of hard rich-people life & (ultimately) redemption of oneself through the love of another person.
Though Belinda starts out as a Lolita object in Jeremy's mind, every painting treats her as a slightly more adult figure -- in the end he doesn't need to paint her naked or create deliberately erotic poses.
(Also, as the (few) positive reviews have pointed out, Belinda is by far the adult in their relationship.
I would say that Belinda was a modern-day Lolita, if I were pretentious enough to allege that I had read Lolita, which I have not.
What I can say is that Rice begins describing a 44 year old man's relationship with a 16 year old girl from the man's perspective in such a way that it almost gives you the creeps, making you feel guilty and dirty just for reading about it, then as she fleshes out the characters, especially Belinda herself, you end up rooting for these two to work it out and be together forever.
It's one of my childhood favourites (weirdly enough) and I absolutely loved it.
I loved all the insane characters and globe-trotting and rich famousness.
When I first read it I was about 13 and didn't really think anything was up with a sophisticated 16-year-old like from Sweet Valley High getting it together with a much older man.
Now I'm almost 30 and 16-year-olds look about 10 so that ramps up the ick-factor and I'm almost afraid to re-read it in case my memories of it are ruined, so I'm just going to remember it through the haze of ages.
AWEFUL!
I am one of those individuals that must finish the book no matter how much I dislike it.
Some of the reviews describe this book as sexy or erotic.
I am confused.
I did not read anything sexy or erotic in this book.
I did however read about a dirty old man exploiting an uneducated poorly raised teenager.
I felt so sorry for Belinda.
She was raised by thoughtless people.
The notebook/letter to Jeremy from Belinda was a torture all on its own.
I mean, I mean how many times is she gonna use that phrase in her tale of the events of her life....
Provocative, sensual, daring, taboo. I was unsure about the content, but I could not put it down. A painter/ children's author having a love affair with a 16 year-old girl, who is more of a woman, due to her unusual worldly childhood, than any woman he has ever been with. The way Anne describes the paintings, the house, the love scenes, is almost like you are there.
Anne Rice starts off this novel by declaring, "THIS NOVEL IS DEDICATED TO ME". Sadly, that's the best and most entertaining part in the entire book.
Dull. Even the "hot" sex scenes are boring. If I want half-baked, overwrought literary porn, I'll read Anais Nin, thanks.
I read this years ago and loved it, thought it was daring and naughty and fraught with all of Anne Rice's usual plot twists and great characters.
On re-reading it in my 50s I just keep thinking 'Yuck.' I'm going to finish it out of respect for the author who gave me 'Interview' and then donate it to the used book store so its nastiness doesn't rub off on my other books.
How did I ever think this crap was titillating?and having finished it for the last time, that's exactly where it's going.
heck, rice even gives him parental approval.i'm going to have a hard time ever liking 'interview' again after this.
I wanted to read an Ann Rice book, but not about vampires, so I picked this.I liked this story and found it incrediably interesting and I could hardly put it down. It is really a different type of book.Best way for me to describe this book, listen to the song Lullabye (Rock-a-Bye) by Shawn Mullins. weird
Meh...this is unbelievably embarrassing, but I only recall reading this because I was under the assumption that the heroine(?), Belinda, was a clandestine vampire who would ultimately devour the hero after sex0rz. :|FAIL.
I love this. A Lolita for the new generation but more tender and more accesible.

I m fourteen and I happen to like it book along with her other books as well like interview with the vAmpire and Also the vampire lestat
lots and lots of crazy. and lots of fun. skimmed parts at times. but overall liked it for what i thought it would be.
I first read this book in 1998, when I was 18, not much older than the 16-year-old love interest in this novel.
I know why people hate this book.
If you don't like to think about teenage girls who want older men, definitely stay away from this book.
I've reread "Belinda" over the years, or read at it, I should say.
On a technical level, I would not call this meandering, overly detailed book a masterpiece.
Except for me personally, this book is a masterpiece.
It's an own forever book.
I don't have very many of those, and it's kind of weird that this book is one of them.
Afastando-se dos diferentes universos que criou, como é o caso do mundo dos vampiros de Lestat ou das bruxas, nos anos 80 termina este livro (que mais tem de romântico do que erótico) e consegue mostrar o seu talento para várias temáticas.Esta história foge do normal ou banal em Anne Rice e quando me refiro a este banal faço referência as cenas de violência vampírica escritas para “A Entrevista com o Vampiro” ou para as infinitas páginas da história de anjos caídos, mais recentemente em “O Tempo do Anjo”, “Belinda” conta a história da personagem com o nome do título, fugida e desconhecida para os olhos de Jeremy Walker que acaba por se apaixonar pela figura de Belinda e mais tarde pela sua personalidade.
If you think a few sex scenes with wine or mink make a book erotic then you can disagree with me.2.
This is a book about the artificial intricacies of show business second to the relationship between a 16 year-old girl, Belinda, and her much older love interest, artist Jeremy Walker.
I've seen this book compared to Lolita.
Was it right that Jeremy Walker slept with her?
No. Either way, this book dragged on about 400 pages too many.
When I think of Anne Rice, I think of Vampires and Witches.
This book however, lacks the touch of the supernatural that most people would identify with Anne Rice.
Belinda is the story of a 44-year-old author of children’s books who becomes fascinated with a beautiful, golden haired sixteen year old girl.
Jeremy spends most of the book searching for the answers to his questions about Belinda and her history.
While I picked up on the hints Rice leaves about the identity of Belinda early on, I was able to follow along with Jeremy’s desperation to solve the mystery of Belinda.
Re-reading during the years that Anne Rice was writing Jesus books was difficult.
This book celebrates unashamed sensuality, totes a kind of openness towards sexual identity, nudity, and the female body and was proof that Rice didn't completely believe in the Catholic morals she was trying to purport through her painfully tedious re-telling of Christ's life.
Reading it now, after she's come back to her senses, for lack of a better phrase, was like seeing the book breathe itself back to life.
It's a philosophy that came into my life at the most important time, and a philosophy that I still hold try - say yes to what feels good, and be unashamed of your body, your creativity.
