https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178204.The_New_Enchanted_Broccoli_Forest
Katzen is one of my go-to people for good vegetarian recipes.
Here's a sample recipe:Tsimmes3 1/2 lbs.
sweet potatoes or yams (or a combination)2 lg carrots, sliced1 lg apple, sliced (peeling optional)1 heaping cup chopped onion2 c chopped dried apricots3 to 4 tbsp fresh lemon juice1 tsp salt1/2 tsp cinnamon2/3 c orange juice1 c apple juice1/4 c fine bread crumbs or matzo meal1.
Place them in a large bowl, add all remaining ingredients except bread crumbs or matzo meal, and toss until nicely combined.
casserole or equivalent baking pan, sprinkle with crumbs or matzo meal, and cover with foil.
Fantastic recipes with gorgeous pen and ink drawings (brussels sprouts drawn in pointillistic style!)and hand-lettered text. It's fun to just look at, but if you do feel like cooking, make the twice-baked potatoes.
While revisiting some of the pioneering works in the area of vegetarian cookery, I was redirected to The Enchanted Broccoli Forest by a former professor and friend who caught my interest with his description of a cream of tomato soup in the above mentioned book.
Also,I think I may try dried rather than fresh rosemary, or use a sprig which I will later remove, to keep from getting ahold of little bits of rosemary.It is important to point out that this book was originally published in 1982 by Ten Speed Press, and features Katzen's own drawings and hand printed recipes.
If you have been following my reading style....
you will also understand my cooking style.
Mollie Katzen is tops in my book- particularly after eating at the Moosewood 2 years ago when I was in Ithica on business.
For four days I ate every meal there!
Just laugh....
It is called the Magical Broccoli Forest because there is a receipe called just that.
It is seasoned rice baked with spears of broccoli standing up in it to create a little forest.
I will just have to think about how to create little edible animals to hide amongst the broccoli!
The entire section on breadmaking by hand is fantastic.
I wish I'd had this book when I made my first attempts at hand made bread - it would have saved me a few stressful hours, for sure.
The section on cooking for children was a little disappointing.
I guess if my kids had never tasted an actual chicken nugget they might find cornmeal-dusted fried tofu an appealing snack...
After the age of 3 it's almost impossible to trick children into believing that tofu is anything but tofu.
The hand lettering was sweet and it's definately given me at least 30 new vegetarian recipes to add to the weekly rotation.
I purchased this book after I had enjoyed The Moosewood cookbook.
There are excellent recipes in it, but this book never saw the action which my poor brown stained Moosewood did.
I do use this recipe when I have someone with little kids come to dinner because it is definitely appealing to the eye.The recipes in this book are good, for the most part, but it was not nearly as exciting as the Moosewood, where everything was quirky and fun, even the things I still haven't made.
It's worth buying just to see some of the different things she does.
This is one of my favorite cookbooks to just sit and real, or even just to look at.
Katzen's hand-lettered pages draw you in by creating a personal feel—like reading a recipe card handed to you from a neighbor.
Her recipes don't include meat, but they have so much promise for yummy meals—all veggie or not—and they incorporate Katzen's Jewish roots.
I've learned new food words and techniques from these kookily illustrated pages, and I particularly like the improvisation tips, complete with a three-column list of which veggies to put in when.
A great cookbook for beginners, for basics and for seasoned cooks.
A co-worker suggested this book to me in my quest of going vegetarian for 2011.
I think the book is well written (I love the fact that it appears as though it's entirely handwritten) and presents a lot of advice and tips.
I will say that while I'm sure most of the recipes are very good (I've only made one and it's not quite as spicy as I would like it) I didn't find more than 3 that I would actually make.
Maybe it is my being picky or a food snob, but I just didn't find some of the recipes (a few because of the names) that appealing.

Everything in here is delicious. Absolutely everything. The Swiss Green Beans are to die for, and the Chocolate Pudding is incredible. The Green Gazpacho is amazing, and the Quiche Formula is foolproof. The only reason I didn't rate it a 5 was that the preparation times listed can be quite misleading. Everything takes me longer than it does Mollie Katzen, apparently. That could be because she is a practiced chef, while I am a dilettante, but if so, then anyone who is not a practiced chef will be unpleasantly surprised at how long her dishes take to prepare.
Teton County Library Call #: 641.5636 KATZEN I love this cookbook! It has one of my most favorite recipes of all time, for vegetarian shepherd's pie. I love the hummus recipes as well. If I had one cookbook to take to a deserted island that had a full, well stocked kitchen, I would take this one! (SuzyThis would be a great gift for anyone who loves to cook or eat.
The vast majority of parents have used the, "Broccoli are little trees!" ploy in an attempt to get their children to eat the venerable green veggie. Katzen's cookbook takes the tree (er, broccoli) one further by layering it in a cheesy " forest" casserole. plenty of other delectable recipes to entice the palate.
I have used this cookbook so many times -- I think my favorites are the potato, pea, and panir curry, apple pie with oatmeal cookie crust, and fresh corn chowder. In addition to the recipes, I love her tutorials on baking bread, chopping vegetables, and cooking beans and grains (I find myself constantly referring to the grain cooking time chart). One of the best $20 I've ever spent.
My first and still possibly my favorite vegetarian cookbook. Tomato soup (v. 1) I make at least once a month. Other stand-outs are mushroom pate and banana muffins -- plus the best tutorial on traditional bread-baking I've seen.
I love this cookbook! It has one of my most favorite recipes of all time, for vegetarian shepherd's pie. I love the hummus recipes as well. If I had one cookbook to take to a deserted island that had a full, well stocked kitchen, I would take this one!
I tried a number of these recipes & found a few new favorites... namely the frittata and the sesame peanut noodles. Most of it was a little too frou-frou for everyday cooking, at least in my house, but these two were easy and phenomenally good!
Just remembered this book after I made Hot Marinated Cauliflower and Macaroni. Most everything I've made from this has been yummy. Also loved the Yogurt and Herb Bread served with the Tomato Soup.And can't forget to mention the Sweet Potato Pie!
Never cared much for these recipes ... and, man, did my friends make fun of this book's name!
I've tried a couple of recipes so far (Russian Carrot Pie and Humble Vegetable Casserole) both were very good. I'm excited to try out the others.
this is so great. and you can read some of the recipes online.
Love that each page is written and illustrated by hand. I was inspired to bake bread.
Charming.
I've had this book for decades...I LOVE it..great recipes..
This is a good book but not quite as good as the original Moosewood. That said there are a lot of great recipes in this book.
Delicious!
Another great batch of recipes from Mollie Katzen.
this book has some inventive recipes. good crusts for dinner pies. it was written back when vegetarian meant dairy, dairy and more dairy. overall: good for ideas
Excellent book with easy to follow recipies.
Good. Not my own favorite of Katzen's though.
i love the shortbread and enchilada recipes in this book, though the titular broccoli forest is way too casserole-y for me.
