https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45056.The_Complete_Stalky_and_Co_
But I don't know who George Sampson was and, after looking it up on the internet, it's this guy who shows up:Of course, if I were to read the fifth line of the introduction I would find that Wells "condemns the heroes as self-righteous bullies", and I do know who Wells is, but let's be honest.
I never made it that far into the introduction.Stalky, Beetle and M'Turk have so much fun being unpleasant that I'm on their side.
It's definitely a book for kids, as I was when I read it, and contrarily to Saki there is no innuendo, and the games are the sort that you enjoy as a teen, when lots of things are done for not other reason than to tap into new energy.
They may have felt unsure of its exact meaning, but if Kipling used the word, why did they take it upon themselves to remove it--particularly as other footnotes indicate lack of certainty when "explaining" other references?
I deserve a campaign medal for ploughing through this dated boys' book...it was beyond the call of duty!
It's fair to say that literary style has moved-on in leaps-and-bounds since Kipling wrote this, with its mute assumption that readers had a wide grasp of classical languages & lore & biblical knowledge, to go with their now-archaic sense of proprieties & implicit sense of social class & imperial pretensions.
Adults probably read this today because JK Rowling revived the school story with her Harry Potter books.
Heaven knows, in our kinder gentler age, the punishment doled out to the bullies in The Moral Reformers will be seen as gratuitously cruel and violent.
Still, Kipling gets his point across: the brutality of school life had its limits and was a necessary part of training for a career in Imperial Management, in which kid gloves would be laughably inappropriate.
Kipling did not gloss over reporting that numbers of Old Boys of the school were indeed killed while serving.
A vulgarian, I liked these knock-about, well-written stories.
This book is largely written in obsolete schoolboy slang, so it's not an easy read. I love it, though, it's an amazing insight into boys' boarding school life in the late nineteenth century. It's an open window into a disappeared world. It's a brutal world, but one with justice and friendship in it, where respect has to be earned. The moral code is quite unlike ours. Also it is very funny and sometimes moving, too.

Despite the fairly obvious empire and race problems of Kipling, I absolutely adore this book, and pick it up pretty regularly. More than any book I know, the flow of the words and the painful humor are well executed.
I've read the Oxford University Press edition - it has wonderful footnotes which enabled me to "get" much of the humor.
I've glanced at a few other reviews saying it's very dated, I've never really understood that as a proper criticism these stories are well written and compelling and I at least find time travel is possible with books, distance and era drop away when character and story are centre stage.And what perfect characters!
School stories ARE old fashioned anyway, it's part of why they are whatever it is that they are.
The Complete Stalky & Co. Is the best collection of school stories I have ever read.
I'm surprised how much I loved this book, only wish I'd've discovered it at 13.
This is a book I 19ve been meaning to read for a while and just got around to it.
Being about ten years too late, it was not as exciting as it would have been back then yet I still got a good glimpse at Kipling 19s writing (never having read any of his books in original beforehand).Up to the very last pages I was under the impression that the book would be a turn of the century teen book but Part II changed my mind and, subsequently, had me reconsidering, coming to the conclusion that it 19s not a bad collection of short stories for young people to read.
The ingredients for an adolescent book are there: adventure, characters one can relate to, moral of the story, etc., as well as a lovely, classical, English style.
These stories by Rudyard Kipling are about the antics of a group of boys at a British "public school" (what Americans would call a private boarding school), and some of the stories follow them into adult life. Very entertaining!
I read this for a class and was surprised by the sly witticisms and cleverness of the boys. If you can read past the Victorian speech, the stories are hilarious.
Reading too many books right now, can't concentrate on this one. Will have to return to it later.
Hilarious
It's like a whole book about Harry and the Weasley twins, but minus the magic. Incredibly funny if you like things like Tom Sawyer or Catch 22.
