https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574132.The_Search
Believe it or not, my copy was my grandmother's 1919 hardcover, with dust jacket!
Actually published during the war, the back of the dust jacket is not a review, but an admonishment to save paper, as every bit is needed for the effort!
The pages are yellowed and brittle, but this is the copy I'm reading.After refinishing it, I see it doesn't quite fit the usual GLH in that neither main character is already a believer, but the Great War setting does naturally lead to one asking what is the point of it all anyway, so it all works out.
2.5 rounded up. The search refers to a search to know God, and those parts of the book were actually quite realistic and touching. But I got really tired of the lack of communication between the characters regarding the jerk of a villain.
Early on in the book, our heroine is irritated by someone saying that “you couldn’t get anywhere [in the Army] without a “pull”,” meaning you couldn’t get a commission without it.
So while the heroine’s thoughts seem to be something the author believes, in terms of the entire plot they become quite ironic, in that it’s clear some people *do* get their positions through “pull”.
It’s also true that “real worth” is recognized, and I have my doubts that GLH meant the original passage to sound as ironic as it does in light of the book as a whole.
One of my favorite authors, but not one of my favorites of hers. It was nice to read something of hers I had never read, but it was so slow and not so satisfying as many of her others. Even the character development was slow and predictable. (Read the free public domain Kindle copy available on Amazon.)
Once again another riveting book by Mrs. Hill to be enjoyed.I enjoy reading this author. She has a way of providing timeless traits of human nature and emotions that can be related to in any time period. I also like to see how people have lived and coped with the world they were given.
The setting wasn't clear for the first few chapters, but then the story grabbed me and I enjoyed it thoroughly. With only two major characters, minor actors were easy to keep track of, and the perspective of the story was easy to follow. An uplifting read with a great moral lesson of forgiveness.
Good war storyI've loved Grace Livingston Hill books for many years. This one is not one of her best, but is still worth reading. I gave it 4 stars instead of five for the contrived, simplistic ending.
Great story, but a bit simplistic. As always, I love her themes.
Good sweet Christian book. Wholesome. No objectionable elements in GLH. I enjoyed reading this book.
Just a nice romance.
Fantastic and wholesome book.Excellent and inspiring book for all who are interested in helping otherS and practicing Christian principles to in their care.
GLH's romances were contemporary when she wrote them, but for many of her books, that was over a hundred years ago. The passage of time has changed them into historical romance that are highly accurate since they were written by someone who was living in those days.The Search was written during World War II, and the setting involves the hero being trained by the Army to fight in France, while the heroine slowly sheds high society to do what she can to aid the war effort for America, and for the man she most admires.
Hill, Grace Livingston
Stirringly patriotic.
