https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1983779.Mary_Olivier_a_Life
This is described as a story of a mother-daughter relationship, and it certainly is that, but I was surprised by how much it was also about Mary’s intellectual development and her rejection of Christianity—a very bold opinion to hold in the late Victorian era.
The story is tragic in its depiction of how someone can be held down by the small-mindedness of those who are afraid of independent thinking, but Mary’s eventual triumphs are not to be dismissed, even if they come late in life.
Absolutely fantastic...could not put it down
I was sure I would hate this book with a vengeance.
Sure, very little actually happens in this novel by way of plot or action, but the author's skilful use of language is just a joy to read.
Never have I underlined so many sections in a book of quotable lines; never have I encountered so many ideas packed into such a slim storyline.
I can imagine this novel isn't for everyone, at its heart it is a terribly sad story of loneliness in a godless universe; but it is at times so exhilarating in its acceptance of the beauty of living in the now and how even the most fleeting moments persist for an eternity.
A complete and utter surprise, this is an absolute joy.
This is a good book but so sad.
It's all about Mary and her mother and what makes it so sad is that her mother doesn't love her.
She tries, at times, but is ultimately unsuccessful.
I remember the part that made me the saddest is when Mary is still pretty young and she is begging for her mother to tell her that she loves her and her mother won't say it...
which is one of the saddest things I have ever read.
Because of this struggle between mother and daughter, the book is very powerful and totally worth a read.
Where the early generation of novel was always about marriage, from Clarissa and Tom Jones to Jane Austen, and the Edwardian novel is obsessed with adultery, Mary’s life story is of the spinster who comes to care for her mother, the philosopher artist and her progress of reading and consciousness, and how these two sides of her life play against each other to offer self actualization.
This is the most moving novel I’ve read since Middlemarch, and if it cannot approach that earlier work on its range of psychological insight, it more than makes up with depth of self-absorption, and of facing the structures and systems that warp, obstruct, but ultimately also constitute, the self.
May Sinclair wrote widely, both fiction and non-fiction – though the majority of her work is out of print now.
She was a modernist writer, who – it is said – was the first to use the term stream of consciousness in a review she wrote about Dorothy Richardson.“If you looked back on any perfect happiness you saw that it had not come from the people or the things you thought it had come from, but from somewhere inside yourself.”Mary Olivier: a life is a novel – though one can’t help but take the name May Sinclair and put it in the place of Mary Olivier.
Bu kitabı okurken ciddi manada canımdan bezdim. Depresyona girmek isterseniz okuyun.
The book is divided into developmental sections - Infancy, Childhood, Adolescence, Maturity and Middle Age - and she beautifully changes the tone and voice of the narration to age and grow with her narrator.
As she grows, she understands more about her family - all the unspoken things that they couldn't talk about (her parents' relationship with each other and with her brothers is a biggie) - and she also questions Christianity, religion and faith, and delves into philosophy and other intellectual pursuits.
She teaches herself Greek from her brother's books; she learns German so she can read Kant in the original - but she has no one with whom she can talk about all these ideas.
Even though Mary Oliver affirms that the joy of living comes from inside the self, not from human relationships or any of the externals of individual experience, I found the book terribly sad. Sinclair is a remarkable writer as she describes the Mary's changing perceptions and understanding of her family and the world around her from her early childhood until her late middle age. Sinclair captures the pain of a brilliant, intellectual, late-Victorian woman, who is caught between societal expectations and her inner drive for a life of mind and beauty. Distressing to read, but difficult to put down.
Like Mary Olivier herself, this book is caught between the worlds of Victorian Realism with its sense of duty, tradition and clearly defined gender roles, and Modernism, with its experimental prose, strong images and focus on interiority. The overall feeling is one of ambiguity. Mary Olivier is filled with ellipses, missing information, and subjectivity, all of which make it more and more intriguing.
Mary Olivier is a semi-autobiographical novel of the life of author May Sinclair. Well written- in a sort of stream-of-consciousness style, we follow Mary from birth to about age 40. Things do not turn out as expected for Mary- a husband does not appear, her fortune is not made. This book bogs down in the middle- a little more about Mary than we need to know.
So compelling - so sad- lacerating. Amazing writing. I just finished it and now must sit silently with my pain for Mary.
Not sure yet
