https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862013.The_Clue_in_the_Old_Album
One of those Nancy Drew Mystery Stories that made me say, "hold up, Carolyn Keene, what the hell?" multiple times.
There is a poisoned doll shaped like a witch that almost gets Miss Nancy killed for real.
And there is a creepy life sized portrait doll of a lady in a wedding dress made from a mysterious substance that is warm to the touch like actual human flesh.
There's a rampaging pickpocket, too, but that seems pretty mundane compared to gypsy world domination conspiracies with life size portrait bridal dolls made of mystical heat radiating organic materials.
I'm really sick of Bess being plump-shamed and Bessplained. All the other recurring characters are described as "attractive" ( way to phone it in) and every time Bess gets described as "slightly plump" and gets shut down for constantly suggesting the girls take a break and go have lunch but ohhhh, Nancy and the "slender and attractive" George always eat and thoroughly enjoy all of the delightful and detail-described lunches so why does everyone hate on Bess?
Consensus on Goodreads is "This one's a mess." I personally hope the ghostwriter of this (None of them were actually named Carolyn Keene) had before the time of their passing, issued a formal apology.Despite a few instances of Nancy murmuring throughout that "many gypsies are fine people," the plot includes a handful of bad "gypsies," i.e. Romani people, who reinforce all the stereotypes: Living in caravans, not cleaning up their campfires, stealing, kidnapping, marrying off their female children to grown men, but look how good they are at playing violin!And the clues make no sense.
The people who need Nancy's help are a typical duo of "old rich lady and her orphan granddaughter." The supposed "twist" is that the granddaughter is unschooled and "wild," most likely because of her "gypsy" parentage.
(Insert eye roll.)This is not indicative of the best of Nancy stories.
As I've said previously here on My Reader's Block, I've seen critiques of the Nancy Drew stories--all about how it wasn't healthy to entice girls with a heroine who seemed to have all the money in the world and a dad who let her do anything.
I never thought, "Gee, I wish I was rich like Nancy" or "I wish Dad would let me do whatever because Nancy can do everything." Yeah, I admit it, I wanted a blue roadster (for that matter, I still do), but not as a thing to possess.
Nancy must locate missing items stolen by a "purse thief". A great read for fans of classic mystery stories.
Nancy offers to come by and see Mrs. Struthers's sweet doll collection (UM YES) and Rose is like I'M SO CUTE LOOK AT ME and George is like ...you're a tiny asshole aren't ya?Mrs. Struthers wants Nancy to recover a very special doll, a doll given to her daughter Enid as a wedding gift by her Romani* husband Pepito.
Nancy found the doll, reunited Rose and Pepito, took them back to Mrs. Struthers (who didn't approve of the marriage but now wants to hang out with her son-in-law), and (of course) won the sailing race.
Esta novela fue realmente un delirio. Sé que era para chicos pero What the hell? Gitanos, sustancias mágicas que dan energía, violinistas, carreras de botes y más mucho más. Lo único que no hay en esta novela (que es raro) es un pasadizo secreto o alguna puerta misteriosa. Carolyn Keene estaba un poco fumada cuando escribió esto 😂
They felt that liking something, like a book or a movie, just because you liked it as a kid doesn’t make it good, and that you really only liked the nostalgia of it - what the thing represented, and the feeling it gives you.
But I do still feel comforted by these simple stories, and while they don’t exactly resonate with me the way they once did they do transport me back.
And nostalgia aside, re-reading things from the past I think can help ground you.
This is a very good thing since one of the chapter is called “The Child Bride” and Nancy witnesses a 14 year old gypsy girl getting married.
I have read a few modern childhood Nancy Drew books with my sons as they grew up.
The original classic book was exactly like the character's adventures in the computer game.
There's a distinct pleasure in a scripted style or formulaic plot, like cooking a familiar recipe.
This book was copyrighted in 1975 and the author describes people as "gay," aka happy, several times, reflecting the Leave it to Beaver era.
Nancy's adventure had spurts of dramatic tension, lucky hints from people who wanted to help, dangerous risks, and inductive reasoning that I didn't piece together in advance.
After chasing down a pickpocket and returning it to her owner, and elderly woman (why are Nancy's clients always elderly?) and her precocious granddaughter Rose.
The twist is that it is believed to be taken by gypsies.After reading this story I've come to the conclusion the Nancy was that generation's Bella Swan.
They are very trendy in their dress, Nancy in her smart dress suits and Bella in whatever fashionable outfit Alice puts on her.
In Nancy's latest adventure she was kidnapped by the gypsies and on the verge of being taken away from River Heights for good.
IMHO, this is not one of the better Nancy Drew Mysteries.
Mrs. Struthers, who wants Nancy to find a missing doll for her and her granddaughter, Rose, was annoying and a real pain.
She continually led Nancy on a wild goose chase but neglected to tell her that she had previously hired another detective to find this doll.
I felt as though Mrs. Struthers held back information and would provide just a little bit of info at a time, which hindered Nancy's investigation.
Rather than using this writing tactic to keep me interested, it seemed to drag and I just wanted Nancy to find the dog-gone doll already.
I was pretty unimpressed with this book-it was all over the place, and the mystery was simultaneously weak and confusing-and bigoted, which I believe was mostly a sign of the times.There was a lot unexplained, nonsensical and without cause.
I'm not expecting a masterpiece, but this book needed for more than the standard 20 chapters and 180 pages to bring this one home-even then, I don't think this would have been an interesting read.
I don't recommend this book unless you're committed to reading the Nancy Drew series in completion-please don't use this as an indicator on the series, it's an outlier.
Okay, Nancy is really dated in this one. It's all about violin music and collectible dolls stolen from/by gypsies. Lots and lots of gypsies. Are they all terrible people? Surely not! But they're gypsies, with their strange gypsy music and strange gypsy ways! Without much "gypsy knowledge " to go on, this one was a little too wacky for me. Crazy Nancy, always tromping off with George (the tall. athletic beauty) and pleasingly plump Bess (who is always looking to go shopping or eat at a new tea house she's found.) ") Not the best from the Stratemeyer syndicate.
This book reads pretty half-assedly, even by Nancy Drew standards. It's written in the style of summarizing as much dialogue and action as possible. The plot is like the one with the  ivory statue, where apparently people can store potions for fricking ever inside of dolls. Nancy is poisoned by a poison-packing swordsman doll and loses consciousness.
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
I was only allowed two Nancy Drews at a time when we visited the library. As a kid, I would run to my room, leap onto my bed, and devour the first one as quickly as possible. My brother didn't tell me till we were grownups that he used to read them after I finished them. He liked them, too!
I came across this book while getting rid of books to donate. I had written inside that it was my first Nancy Drew book so I thought why not read it again. Rating a five because along with the story I have such fond memories of never been able to get enough of these books.
Amateur sleuth Nancy Drew's latest mystery involves gypsies and dolls. Weird and fun.
I read the 1947 version. I think I loved reading this one solely because it was ridiculous. I mean, it has poisonous dolls and gypsies - what more can you ask for?
Definitely one of the best.
Pretty good and intruging

I very much enjoyed all the twists, turns, and action in this mystery. It definitely felt fast-paced and complicated. They did an all right job of representing the Romany people, although it definitely could have been better. I’m not sure why they only ever referred to the ginger haired woman’s hair as “carrot colored” but it felt overused by the time the story ended. I also did not like the whole “doll with vague curative powers”. It felt too magical and not grounded enough in reality to be something that belonged in the Nancy Drew universe.
2.5The entire story is built and concluded on one lucky break/coincidence after another- many of which take place in different states! If any one of them hadn't occurred, would the mystery have every been solved? I think not. It was less about intelligence and more about stumbling on long lost answers buried in antique stores.
I will always love Nancy Drew. This book has a lot of really fun elements, and some great Nancy and Ned moments. The only thing that was a little weird was this whole ambiguous "Source of light" business that was never explained. I'm almost glad it wasn't cause I thought it was creepy. Overall, a great ND book. And since I'm the same age as Nancy, it makes it even more fun!
When I read these in my youth, I didn’t recognize the stereotyping and racism in it. It’s interesting from a cultural and historical view to look back at what was considered acceptable in the author’s time period.
3.5 stars to be fair. The Nancy Drew series was literally my childhood. I enjoy these kinds of mysteries that are opened and with little and unconnected clues. But this book contained a number of additional spices and unreal coincidences. But it was a fair read i’ll say:)
"The Clue in the Old Album" has become one of my favorite of the Nancy Drew mysteries! Very suspenseful, and filled with uncharacteristic happenings. I have always been intrigued by gypsies and stories containing them so this book was very enjoyable for me, apart from it being about Nancy Drew!
The book "The clue in the old album" is a good book and has lots of mysteries. I would recommend this book!
4.5 StarsThis book was really unique in that there were gypsies and a runaway father who was also a gypsy. I loved it.
