https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317056.Harvey
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این نمایشنامه، داستانِ مردی 42 ساله و بسیار مهربان و نیک کردار به نامِ <الوود> را بیان میکند.. الوود احساسِ خشم و خشونتی در وجودش ندارد و با همه دوستانه رفتار میکند و بسیار دوست داشتنیست... مادرش به او سفارش کرده است که در این دنیا باید خیلی باهوش و یا خیلی خوش مشرب باشد. از این رو، الوود همیشه تلاش کرده است که باهوش باشد، ولی به دیگران توصیه میکند که خوش مشرب باشند..... الوود هیچگاه ازدواج نکرده و همیشه عاشقِ خانوادهٔ خویش بوده است.. او با خواهرِ بزرگترِ خود، <ویتا>
از این رو، الوود همیشه تلاش کرده است که باهوش باشد، ولی به دیگران توصیه میکند که خوش مشرب باشند.....
در افسانه هایِ کهن آمده که پووکا یک موجودی همچون پری و فرشته میباشد که در جسمِ یک حیوان پدیدار میشود و همیشه بزرگ به نظر میرسد، ولی بی آزار است و میتواند در هر جا و هر مکانی وارد شود..
الوود بر این باور است که هاروی بر زمان و مکان و بسیاری مواردِ دیگر، غلبه دارد‎ویتا، خواهرِ الوود، تصمیم میگرد تا برادرش را به دکتر چاملی، در تیمارستانِ بیمارانِ روانی، تحویل دهد..
If the bunny is a good enough friend any name at all will do.
Frank, Fiver, Bigwig, Hazel, Roger Rabbit, Cadbury, Peter Cottontail, the Easter Bunny, the white rabbit, a Canadian bunny voiced by Samantha Morton (that's Max and Ruby to you.
How could that German eat my friend like that?
Not healthier.The bitchy girl I called "rabbit" a few years ago because her nose was always wrinkled and she looked like she had whiskers need not apply for position of BFF.
Why isn't every book as good as Watership Down?I'm not even year of the rabbit.
Veta's adult brother's imaginary friend, a six-foot rabbit no one else can see, is becoming a burden on her reputation so she plans to commit her brother to the loony-bin. However, things don't work out that way and she ends up learning important things about herself and the people around her. This classic story is often hilarious and also unforgettable.
من نمایش رو دیدم. اینقدر زیبا بود که نمیخوام نمایشنامه رو بخونم. فوق العاده بود، هم خود نمایشنامه، هم کارگردانی و هم بازی بازیگران مخصوصا جناب کاظم سیاحی. انصافا لذت بردم.(view spoiler)["مشکل ابنه که من نمی دونم کجا میخوام برم. من هرجا هستم با هرکس که هستم، لذت می برم." (hide spoiler)]
دکتر چاملی ، مادرم همیشه به من می گفت:((الوود، تو این دنیا))-اون همیشه من رو الوود صدا می کرد- اون به من می گفت:((الوود،تو این دنیا یا باید خیلی باهوش باشی و یا خیلی خوش مشرب)) .من سال ها باهوش بودم ،اما پیشنهاد می کنم خوش مشرب باشید. نمایشنامه زیبایی بود و الوود شخصیت دوست داشتنی داشت
I was pleased to find that the stage play was not altered all that much when made into a film, which is where I, like most people, first met Elwood P.
But the line I recall most often since I first saw the film is spoken by Elwood about halfway through Act 3.
He says: "Dr. Chumley, my mother used to say to me, 'In this world, Elwood'--she always called me Elwood--she'd say, 'In this world, Elwood, you must be oh, so smart or oh, so pleasant.' For years I was smart.

"Years ago my mother used to say to me, she'd say, 'In this world, Elwood, you must be' -- shealways called me Elwood -- 'In this world, Elwood, you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant.'Well, for years I was smart. I recommend pleasant. You may quote me."
That was surprisingly enjoyable, and left me with quite a few deep thoughts to think about! And it was short which was nice.
Absolutely hilarious! Definitely a comedy! A book I read for school!
This book/play was very... odd. I enjoyed it a lot, but it was very strange.
Funnier than expected. A grown man has an imaginary friend – a six-foot-tall bunny named Harvey – and his sister, somewhat understandably, wants to have him committed. A comedy of errors ensues that suggests Harvey is, in fact, real (and also invisible), while also making readers / viewers question how we define sanity. The play introduces a lot of concepts and ideas that would shape the mid-century American theatre, but Ms. Chase’s ability to play with the absurd while keeping her characters grounded is rare. Highly recommended.
This is a short play, with about a dozen characters, but it joyfully combines mysticism, alcoholism, kindness, good-fellowship, and thoughts on sanity/insanity together to create a memorable character. I read it aloud with my kids, ages 14 and 11, taking various parts. I didn't tell them beforehand about Elwood P. Dowd's mysterious friend, but they were delighted as Harvey emerged, made his presence known in the play, and eventually saved Dowd from a sinister-sounding "treatment". Good fun and farce, with the message of preferring pleasantness to smarts a very sweet one indeed.
This is one of my all time favorite plays.
I had the honor of directing it with a great cast.
The idea that life is simply finding happiness and exploring that is so lovely.
I envy Elwood's ability to find a friend in each person he meets.
He can find pleasantries in each encounter and if there are none, he simply moves on to the next encounter.
Harvey gives Elwood the ability to search out the little joys in life.
Having a pooka to teach you, join you, and be with would be a nice day.
And the chance of stopping time is always an alluring possibility.
Okay so I went to get a head start on my all school reading only to find that pages 27-42 in my Harvery had been replaced with pages 43-58. So I could read pages 43-58 twice but it would require me to miss a good portion of the first act... Why when I am trying to get a head start on something does the universe put it's foot down?
نمايشنامه اى كوتاه و سرزنده. مردى به نام الوود كه دوست نامرئيش هاروى خوگوشى ماوراء الطبيعه و شش فوتى است.ديگران نمى بينندش واو را ديوانه مى پندارند ولى ناپيدايى هاروى دليل بر عدم وجود او نيست به نظر من داستان بر پايه ى مرز باريك عقلانيت و جنون است كه تفكيك ايندو گاهى ناممكن است.
My mom loved the movie adaptation of this, with Jimmy Stewart.
I don't know if she ever read the play (and obviously, I can no longer ask her).
But I think she would have enjoyed it.
The play is exactly like the movie, of course, and it's funny and heartfelt at the same time.
You can't help but be endeared to Elwood P.
Dowd - he sees the good in everyone and everything.
Side note: My mom used to attribute things moving in the house - a door opened by the wind, a glass sliding in a ring of water at an angle, etc.
Okay...
this book was HILARIOUS!!!!
I was literally laughing out loud for every page.
The plot was very unique and moved forward smoothly and in a way that made sense.
One thing I didn’t like.....
I felt that women were looked down upon a little bit in this play.
At one point the doctor said “Beautiful and dumb.
Love it!” And I was just like, “you kidding me Doc?????” There was another point when a man almost spanked a girl in an attempt at flirting.
Yeah, NO THANK YOU!!!Other than that, this was a perfect short read and highly recommended :)
We laugh our way through it and come out the wiser for having pondered the existence of a six foot tall white rabbit.“… my mother used to say to me, ‘In this world, Elwood, you must be oh, so smart or oh, so pleasant.’ For years I was smart.
You see, Harvey happens to be a six foot tall white rabbit.
He surely felt that everyone else could live in the same way.“The most important decision we make is whether we believe we live in a friendly or hostile universe.”- Albert EinsteinHarvey happened into Elwood’s life like a miracle.
Harvey and I sit in the bars...
And soon the faces of all the other people they turn toward mine and they smile.
And they're saying, "We don't know your name, mister, but you're a very nice fella." Harvey and I warm ourselves in all these golden moments.
We've entered as strangers - soon we have friends.
And they come over...
and they sit with us...
And then I introduce them to Harvey...
The same people seldom come back; but that's envy, my dear.
There's a little bit of envy in the best of us.
Harvey is a wonderful film starring James Stewart as the charismatic and kind Elwood P Dowd who wanders around his hometown accompanied by an invisible 6 foot 1 inch rabbit called 'Harvey' who no-one can see except Elwood.
Before it was made into a film Harvey was a very successful stage play and this little book is the play in full including stage direction etc.I enjoyed the book as it is true to the story told in the film and much of the dialogue is identical.
I enjoyed the story a good deal.
If you are a fan of the James Stewart film I recommend it!
YES, I've been reading a shit ton of plays lately. So sue me.This is a cute little play, albeit a bit outdated in some language. However, despite its length, it effortlessly encompasses romance,comedy and family drama. It deals with themes of misogyny- though this could be a product of the time frame; it has expertly placed one-liners and subtle jokes, excellent character development, and a critique on family values, social norms, romance and mischievous rabbits. I was also the stage manager of this play in school, so maybe I'm a bit biased. (We were excellent.)
I played Ruth Kelly, and after reading Harvey over and over, I have to say, it is not only my hands down favorite play, but one of my favorite stories of all time. I hold this story close to my heart <3
it was an interesting book.situation comedy plus simplicity and implicity.
Great play, I loved it.
Harvey adapted by Mary Chase from her Pulitzer Winning Play A different version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...
and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Harvey is a six foot-tall...rabbit.So you get the idea:This must be either a comedy or a horror film You can't make a drama with a hero like that...Well, they have a tall thing in the White House and that apparition seemed as unlikely as a six foot rabbit, only some months ago.Elwood P.
The play alternates between only two locations, the library in the Dowd-Simmons home and the reception room at Chumley's Rest, a sanitarium.Harvey debuted at the Forty-Eighth Street Theatre in New York City on November 1, 1944.
And as I mentioned earlier, the hilarious dialogue from the film originated in the play.Only two of the film's cast members - Josephine Hull as Veta and Jesse White as Chumley orderly Mr. Wilson - were in the play when it debuted.
Frank Fay played Elwood, although Stewart would eventually play the role on Broadway, then again when it was filmed.
This is the play that I helped direct during my senior year. Producing a play was so fun and learning about the characters through Curtis's directions and the interpretations of the cast was an amazing experience. The story is so interesting and demonstrates the struggles that everyone goes through when deciding what the right choices are and Elwood's kindness is an inspiration.
If you've seen this as a movie, read the play, too. Meet Mr. Elwood P. Dowd and his friend Harvey all over again, but brace up for the real magic, seeing that the things we believe are most important of all; hearing your own laughter, the laughter of recognizing yourself; feeling the tragedy of having to choose reality or another better reality.
A very sweet and very wise (if a bit dated) story, best paired with the wonderful film adaptation starring Jimmy Stewart. Pookas might just become my favorite mythical creatures after reading (and watching) this.
