https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223455.Three_Trapped_Tigers
Το βιβλίο αυτό θα μπορούσαμε να πούμε πως σχεδιάστηκε σαν ένα νυχτερινό κέντρο διασκέδασης στο οποίο συχνάζουν όλοι οι ήρωες που πρωταγωνιστούν στην ιστορία και αφηγούνται ή θυμούνται τα γεγονότα της ζωής τους, καθώς και των υπόλοιπων χαρακτήρων, με σειρά εμφάνισης σαφώς μπερδεμένη.
Ακριβώς όπως θα δικαιωθούν όλοι οι αναγνώστες με κάποια ικανότητα συναρμολόγησης...Ο συγγραφέας διευκρινίζει πως το έργο του αποτελείται απο φωνές και ότι οι φωνές δεν έχουν «βιογραφία».
Το αναμενόμενο αποτέλεσμα, ίσως, είναι να γνωρίσουμε την προ- επαναστατική Αβάνα μέσα απο τα μάτια του συγγραφέα.
Ίσως και να μην είναι, σίγουρα όμως μέσα στο βιβλίο διαχέεται όλη η τροπική ομορφιά του τόπου.
I was dizzy and short of breath when I finally saw this on the shelves at Twice-Told back in my Boom days.
Those were strange times of death-trap automobiles and working two full-time jobs to remain poor but literate.
The friendship displayed in the Three Trapped Tigers was beyond moving.
The erudition itself was arresting but the emotional bond within the text captured me.
I have felt those sinuous bonds throughout my life but this was a confirmation, especially at such a vulnerable juncture.
One's youth is so vulnerable, later it becomes simply debatable.
Perhaps you could corroborate this for me ; but it seems to me that when your books start to suck, a very reliable avenue to take is one headed south.
Or, if not heading south, is it a matter of that Dalkey spine?
Without those plentiful moments of wtf there’s just no point in going on.
Drawing a map of their movements would entirely miss the point.
This is Cuba, so there is plenty of movement.The second kwetch is :: a general request which could be filed under the rubric, Ethics of Aesthetic Judgment.
Play resurrects our memory of the deceased.

The musical freewheeling ramble of the Beats can be found in the ‘I Heard Her Sing’ sections that form the emotional kernel of an otherwise cerebral exercise in styles, alongside a multitude of parodies and pastiches, notable being an hilarious send-up of Robbe-Grillet somewhere around the ‘Mirrormaze’ area and numerous effects such as the patience-testing ‘Mrs Campbell’s Corrections,’ where Mrs Campbell corrects an anecdote by Mr. Campbell which is then retold and re-corrected, spurious accounts of Trotsky’s death told by spurious writers (if one novel was to influence Bolaño—look no further), and the overlong final part ‘Bachata’ that contains some magnificent comedy and truly Grade-A weirdness.
Ako je uopšte moguće jasno odrediti o čemu se zapravo radi.Nije laka knjiga, ali samo je manji deo nerazumljiv za samo čitanje.
Veći deo je lako čitati, što ne znači da ćete razumeti šta ze zaboga dešava.
Zbog nerazumevanja i salate od reči, naravno, ali većinom zbog nervoze što ne mogu brže da čitam, sažvaćem je celu i utolim glad za JOŠ OVOGA.
Koliko vidim, mnogo ljudi tumači naslov kao da je o tri glavna lika (zapravo ih ima najmanje četvorica, plus još nekoliko žena) iako niko ovde nije tužan.
Zbog svega ovoga knjiga ima bukvalno preko 700 fusnota.
Barem zato što nećete naići na mnogo sličnih drugih knjiga, ako ih uopšte ima.
uão dǝɹɔǝqı uɐpɐ
Bespotrebno je, besmisleno i beskonačno glupo pokušati prepričavati ovu knjigu, pa i analizirati je i pisati o njoj. Kuba pre revolucije. Jezičke bravure. Igrokazi. Razbacana poglavlja. Desetine naratora. Odsustvo vidljivog smisla. Preseravanje. Parodija. Film. Fusnote. Zagonetke. Kakofonija glasova. Punokrvan i veličanstven antiroman. Zavrteće vam misli brže od spinera i mrzećete ga u svoj svojoj ljubavi. Kupiti, staviti na čelo police i čitati hiljadama puta bez želje da se išta shvati. Ijednom. Ludilo od knjige. Utisci dok citanje jos traje.
But the author, with diverse characters in pre-Castro Havana, seemingly ran out of ideas.
This, I suppose, can happen when a one writes fiction not really to tell a story, but only to play.
Play with words.
Cabrera Infante did a lot of things to words here.
Almost every imaginable things one can possibly do to words.
And names even: of authors (Aldust Huxley) and books (Confessions of a Cuban Opinion Eater).
Puns, allusions, wordplay galore, he wrote words like they're reflected in a mirror, wrote them in the shape of an inverted pyramid, had paragraphs titled the same, wrote shorts stories inside the novel in different versions, combined words to capture an almost fresh meaning ("LOLITTLE girls," "MASTURDEBATE," etc.).
"When I had finished listening to Silvestre, without saying anything, before hanging up, hanging up the suddenly black terrorphone, in morning that mourning, I said to myself, Fuck and shit, the whole world dies!
And nothing more - and right after that I said shit."
I am currently in the midst of the joyful fun and games which are withdrawal symptoms from trying to come off the antidepressants I have been on for many many years.
Maybe it is not the book, just the fact that my brain is dealing with too much other crap .The typographic stuff was fun though, and the translation of all that punning and wordplay was just awe inspiring.
Music & movies are the motifs acting as signposts but ultimately this book is all about words & by the final segment 'Bachata', Infante drops all pretense to a plot as almost all the male protagonists start talking like Bustrófedon!!!So if your name is not NR, you might feel trapped at times...
A sve što čovek može o ovome da kaže verovatno nema smisla, što je Kabrera Infante onako baš lepo uredio.
Ovo je stanje svesti kao kad pročita čovek 800 strana u toku dana, sve mu se reči izbrkaju u glavi, počne da ga boli glava i onda sanja neki haos od slova (ovo zna svako ko je spremao kampanjski neki ispit :D) - e, ovo je takvo delo.Sad je pitanje je li to genijalno ili sumanuto ili kakvo već - meni deluje da je, GKI odlično uradio ono što je rekao za Džojsa - da prostite, iskakio jedno fino književno govno, ali kakvo govno!
“Küba’yı görmek onu dinlemekten çok ama çok daha iyi, daha iyi çünkü Küba’yı gören ona aşık olur, oysa onu dinleyen bir daha asla onu sevemez çünkü sesi çürüktür.“Guillermo Cabrera Infante Türkiye’de hak ettiğini bulamamış yazarlardan biri.
Batista diktatörlüğünün sonlarında geçiyor, Havana’nın gece hayatı başta olmak üzere çürük yaşantısına, sefaletine ve yaklaşan devrimin ayak seslerine kadar Küba’yla ilgili bir çok ipucu veriyor.
Orhan Pamuk romanlarındaki İstanbul’un okuduktan sonra insanda hüzün bırakması gibi Infante’nin Havana’sı da insanı akşamdan kalma bir ruh haline sokuyor.Küba İspanyolcasının gündelik dilinin kitabın büyük bir çoğunluğunu kapsaması nedeniyle Kapanda Üç Kaplan için Latin Amerika’nın Ulysses’i deniyor.
Bu gözle bakınca Kapanda Üç Kaplan’ın ne kadar büyük bir kitap olduğu anlaşılıyor.
Here is the full saying: “Tres tristes tigres tragaban trigo en un trigal en tres tristes trastos.” (Three sad tigers swallowed wheat in a wheat field in three sad things)Imagine an entire book that literally twists language?
And changes the style of the book numerous times.
In fact, much of the book focuses on how the rich and poor intertwine, for both good and bad.
This is nothing like the Márquez book but it launched Cabrera Infante to fame as part of the Latinoamericano boom.
Sadly the book as been banned in Cuba and Cabrera Infante left because of the Castro politics.
Un juego. Un Juego. De palabras, en la estructura, de sonidos, con los personajes, con las palabras, con el Tiempo, con los números, con los tiempos, con la historia, en la narrativa, con la Historia. En todo. Con todo juega. ¡Prólogo, epílogo y todo lo que hay en medio de esos dos puntos! Desde la nota advertiva y pre-prologuera, ya está jugando, nos está plantando las reglas del juego. Y como buen juego, uno se divierte durante el trayecto. De esos libros que obligan revisar capítulos anterior
Desde la nota advertiva y pre-prologuera, ya está jugando, nos está plantando las reglas del juego.
De esos libros que obligan revisar capítulos anteriores, verificar personajes, hacer apuntes y en más de una vez, ¡muchas de las veces!, obliga a ir por un marcador o lápiz para subrayar diálogos, frases, máximas, mínimas, páginas completas del juego llamado Tres tristes tigres.
Pero la de Cabrera, carajo, es, ¡y por mucho!, más latina, más nuestra, más nuestro entorno; no obstante, que es toda cubana: en Cuba, con cubanos, en cubano.
¿Cuántos libros serios hay que nos hacen reír?
Meriterebbe un commento decente, ma dovrete accontentarvi di questo.Cabrera Infante ambienta il romanzo nell’Avana di Batista, poco prima della rivoluzione di Castro; la trama è esile, solo un pretesto per farci conoscere una sequela di strani personaggi e insieme a loro sperimentare linguaggi diversi, in un gioco infinito di rimandi.L’inizio è ostico (la tentazione di scaraventare il libro dalla finestra era sempre in agguato).
Poi il fascino della prosa ha preso il sopravvento e così il coinvolgimento è stato totale.Sorprendente anche la grafica, con pezzi di testo scritti a piramide rovesciata, in cerchi, o parole che si elevano da sole, ecc..Un libro che si legge, si guarda e si ascolta come una poesia lunga 451 pagine.“Chi era Bustrófedon?
Technically I've just committed an act of fraud by pressing the "I'm finished" button in order to write this review.
I didn't actually finish this book.
Essentially I'm awarding a rating to Guillermo Cabrera Infantes book which is entirely based on my own personal inability to engage with and absorb the writing therein.
I did try with this one but I really couldn't get on board with the writing style and by the time I was over 50 pages in and still had no real idea what was happening, where the story was headed and what any central themes might be, my brain had already gone and got distracted by other shiny things on my bookshelf.
Really mixed feelings about this one. Insanely dense "word play" But like a pit bull puppy that grew up too fast, the play has become an unstoppable torrent of aggression that kind of left me feeling battered. Perhaps some people I know would be more receptive to this kind of unbridled creativity, but I like my creativity with a bridle on it. This book is about Havana, 24/7 and 100 mph. Day-Glo drunken hyper-realism bleeds into a mutant hybrid of meda-absurdity and formal logic. This book is like Douglas Hofstadter doing a snuff porn with Salvador Dali.
(Lightning Review)The literary equivalent of the first 100-or-so releases on Impulse. Don't worry about GGM, Cortazar, Infante. Think Coltrane, Mingus, and, especially, Acid by Ray Barreto, and The Latin Jazz Quartet with Eric Dolphy. Lightning review rating: an evening of fun in the metropolis of your dream (thanks, Wire).

"It has been customary to read 700-page novels," writes James Woods in his famous essay on the the modern novel, "Hysterical Realism," "to spend hours within a fictional world without experiencing anything really affecting or beautiful." Woods had in mind writers like DeLillo, David Foster Wallace, Rushdie, and (especially) Zadie Smith, but he might have put Guillermo Cabrera-Infante at the top of the list.
I Death Marched myself to page 200 and dropped it like a fart-laden anchor.
Look, I get it: this is a book designed to dazzle; it's 100% fireworks, with wordplay and puns and allusions and double-helixed turns of phrase raining down like fairy dust after a high-speed celestial collision.

Аз такива гъби не мога да ям.

the chapter on bustrofedon sends me into linguistic ecstasies. I can only imagine how amazing it must be in its original spanish.

(p48)Guillermo Cabrera Infante’s “Three Trapped Tigers” holds a mirror up to Havana, and pre-Revolution Cuba, and what is seen is not always as expected.
A common theme throughout, the mirror appears in the waters of the bays, in the skies, in many many scenes, a book that presents a distorted, or is it a realistic?, view of Havana.Originally published under the Spanish title “Tres Tristes Tigres” in 1965, the title translates literally as “Three Sad Tigers” but the traditional tongue-twister would be lost in translation, hence to English title.
I don't remember how it came to my attention, but I suspect it was because of a music reference.I read about the first 200 pages, then skimmed through the middle sections and ended with the final 100 pages (there are 487 pages in the 2004 Dalkey edition.)This book is for people who love words and wordplay, and don't mind cliches (which are generously sprinkled throughout and mostly humorously used.) It is written in first person, but sometimes you won't know right away (or at all) who the person is, since they won't always be identified by name.
this little known cuban author has written a crazy, graphically engaging, rich novel set in - well, Cuba - in the fifties.
the cabana!
the cigars!
the women!
i've loaned this book to a few friends & they've all been totally astonished that they'd never even heard of  Guillermo Cabrera Infante before.
Danielewski must have read - or at least toyed with - this book in his early days as a writer.
the influence is astonishing.i'd recommend this to anyone who is a fan of linguistics or etymology.
but really, everyone who likes to read should devour this.
