https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539353.Sagittarius_Rising
Introduction, by Samuel HynesPreface to the Second Edition, by Cecil Lewis--Sagittarius Rising
He had never been in a plane, but, like many young men of the day, was fascinated with the machine.
It was the most effective way of destroying wealth that man had yet devised; but as a means of extermination (roughly one man for every hundred shells), it was primitive and inefficient.Some of the book is a bit technical - I had to double check with my husband the difference between the ailerons and the elevator, for instance, and googling for images of some of the planes was essential (what does a Morane Parasol look like?).
My one complaint is that for the most part Lewis seemed too distant from his experiences, except when he was sharing his feelings of being alone in a plane.
But that period of his life coincided with the First World War, in which the author served as a pilot in the Royal Flying Corps.
Lewis realised that he lived in, and survived, an extraordinary time and decsribes well his wonder and horror at war in the air only fifteen years after the Wright brothers had made their first flight.
Although he lived to be over 100 and had a remarkable life, he knew that from the 11th November, 1918, nothing would ever match the intensity of these times.
This book was extraordinarily hard to put down.
He is seemingly open and at times says to the reader that the book was his best recollection.
When I opened the book I was expecting a rehash of every combat flight but what was received was an insight to the time from one person's point of view.
It was refreshing to read a book that embraces the entire experience not just one aspect.
This book should be in the libraries of anyone who wants to understand the experience of WWI.
He had a strong desire to participate in the war and discovered that the Flying Corps would allow him to enrol at the age of 17 (a year younger than the army).
He recounts his life from the time of joining the Flying Corps onwards and then through to the post-war period when he ended up in China endeavouring to train Chinese pilots to fly passenger aircraft.
His descriptions of flying in that early period of air combat, his observations of trench warfare from above, the loss of fellow pilots to both accidents and mortal combat are all vivid and engrossing.
If a person could give a rating on only the first two thirds of a book then Sagittarius Rising by Cecil Lewis would get four stars.
The book is a memoir of Cecil Lewis's time as a pilot in WW1.
It gave me a very interesting insight to what young person goes through from the first time he tells his parents that he wishes to fight the war as pilot to his last patrol on the last day of the war.
I wish the book had ended there.The problem was that after the war he ended up in China teaching flying.
The one who had listened to the serialisation realised that their lives were in some ways worse.This book is the extraordinary story of a boy (he was 17) who learnt to fly and was in combat over France in 1915 until the end of the war.
Under contract from Vickers, he went on to teach the Chinese how to fly.It's particularly poignant for me, as I had long conversations with those two WWI veterans (no combatants from that war are now alive), and one of my great uncles was in the RFC and then in the RAF.
He has a poetic touch and going on a first date with a girl as an example, he touches on and recalls the emotions and feelings we all have in a way most other authors cannot convey.On the other hand the book has a disjointed quality to the narrative and it gets bogged down at times in philosophical discussions.
So at some points the narrative has a random dreamlike quality to it and then at other times it feels like a sermon.
I always find it hard to objectively rate autobiographical war books; I just can't help feeling that people who took the bridge at Arnhem deserve better than for some guy sitting on his sofa 70 years later to say "it isn't really that readable, doesn't really flow".
Elsewhere the book meanders somewhat, especially after the war when the writer is sent to work as a pilot instructor in China.
Despite this, the book is still a solid read, particularly for anyone interested in military history.
The detail of each of the planes, what it involved in dealing with them and their technicalities, what he saw from the air, what it meant to fly through a barrage and act as an artillery spotter (ie risk being shot down by his own guns) is all eye-opening.
Lewis has a poetic style and occasionally goes into flights of philosophical speculation which I did not find so interesting, but perhaps that is inevitable because Lewis lead a charmed life, surviving more than three years in the air when at one stage the average was just three weeks.
Recommended for anyone wanting details of the war in the air
Beautifully written, with "almost " forgotten phrases and poetic terminology from days gone by.
In many cases, despite being written half a century ago about memories over a century ago the life lessons felt just as relevant today as when it was written, “ My most pregnant memory of the war.
It was, in fact, the symbol of our enlightened twentieth century: science, in the pursuit of knowledge, being exploited by a world without standards or scruples, spiritually bankrupt..
My only complaint, albeit minor is the last third of the book about the days after the war felt a little tame as a resolution for the novel.

Good but not greatLike others have noted the first section which deals with the war and combat is interesting and well done. The post war second part is more a poetically descriptive impression of 1920 Peking and has very little to do with flying. It's a bit of a slog but somewhat interesting too.
Great book with some great psychological questions but it does get a little boring towards the end
Great, up until the last chapter...:-(
Great StoryVery Interesting and revealing story of air combat during WWI. It has the grit and emotion of a first person narrative, underscored by a youthful narrator.
Very lyrical account of flying in the RFC and in China in the early 1920s. It was written in 1936 and is almost a time capsule of English manners and customs.
It has more reflection on war and youth, less memory of the years of war. This should be expected since it's a memoir 20 years later without the helps of diaries nor letters.
He is a gifted story teller and a poet and this necessarily hurried review cannot do justice to the scope of the man's experience or the quality of his writing.Obviously he survived the war and lived a long and varied career having been born just before the turn of one century and dying only a couple of years short of the turn of the next century.
Their influence for good or evil, was not dead till the last man had forgotten them."In that spirit, please read this book if the time is of any interest to you, that Cecil Lewis should - in being remembered - live on like the great spirit he was.
As always, the autobiographies written by the people actually involved in the Great War are always the most interesting. Especially, as they are written in the language and grammar of the time. This one is no exception, the author describes his experience of flying in such beautiful, moving words, the prose is like poetry. Stunning book and a must read for everyone.
It recounts the author's experiences and feelings as a 17/18-year-old pilot in the 1st World War (when pilots lasted on average 3 weeks), written some 20 years after the events described.There are poetic descriptions to make you sigh( 'slowly the aerodrome rose up through the gauzy swathes of mist spun by the invisible hands of twilight'), political ideas to make you cheer out loud, philosophical musings to make you wonder deep into the night and a super insight into the everyday life of British society one hundred years ago.
Safety last.' What an attitude to life!
He started off in 1915 with exactly 14 hours flying time, and went on to survive the rest of the war at the front, where the average survival rate for pilots was two weeks.
It's a great read - all the more so when you realise at the end, that he was only 17 when he started his war service.
His enthusiasm for flying is infectious, but at the same time, he understood his was a more privileged way to court death, compared to the Tommies dying beneath the guns in the muddy trenches below.
Cecil Lewis first came to my attention when I read Captain Ball by Alex Devaney.
Until tomorrow…  quoted there, just touched me, and my curiosity about him led me to this book.
It has been on my To Read list ever since.
Now I finally got to it, it was fantastic.Cecil Lewis lived in dangerous times and penned his memories of them (some 20 years later) in a wonderful way.
He didn’t seem to make himself look anything other than what he really was.
At least, I didn’t get the feeling he was trying to show himself as a hero.
And a great read this book was.
Cecil Lewis' book is among them.
Lewis learned to fly in the early days of World War One, in the days when simply leaving the ground in one of those frightful old kites was an act of courage.
He puts his new and hard-won skill in the service of his country, flying with the RFC over what we now think of as "Flanders Fields" or the "Western Front." He describes that service in unsparing style and that wonderful understated English wit.This book is valuable either as entertainment or as history.
A good read.Here is a link to an interview with Cecil Lewis done by the BBC in the early 1960s:http://vimeo.com/89830397
Written with the Authority of Actual Participation.Cecil can write.
Remarkably Cecil has skills that most 'authors' can only dream of having.
I picked up this book because I had read elsewhere that Cecil Lewis had flown in combat the entire length and breadth of the First World War. Remarkable.
When the average life of a pilot was measured in days or weeks this man flew throughout the war.
Written in the language, (with the associated spelling), of the day I found it both enjoyable and educational.
He tends to wax poetical and when he describes flying it makes you long to take flight and soar through the clouds free of everything.
Some good history about the war from the flying perspective.
He lived thru some thick action and once returned from a long weekend away to find most of his fellow airmen killed.
He spends a little bit of time after the main of the book talking about the time he spent in China after the war trying to help them learn to fly.
He describes the way non-Chinese society segregated themselves and often looked down on the Chinese.
Unlike any other book that I've ever read about the Great War, Cecil Lewis' memories of being a pilot in the RFC between 1916-18 is by turns witty, terrible, and poetic.
The perspective of the pilots who took often dangerously experimental aircraft into the skies scarcely a decade after the invention of powered flight is remarkable, as was their bravery and complete and utter disregard for personal safety.
Lewis' travels after the war, going to China to instruct a fledgling service of commercial air pilots, is a strange coda to this book, but ultimately it fitted neatly in closing the chapter of Lewis' life in which he was a pilot.
Very nice autobiographical book about an early RFC flyer in World War I. Lots of good detail as Lewis progresses through the war, heads back to England, spends time with friends and engages the enemy. Nothing hugely surprising, but nice to read an encounter from someone who was there at the time.After the war, Lewis spent time under contract to Vickers and helped train pilots in China. This is detailed in the back 20% of the book and is as engaging as the fighting in the first part of the book.Good stuff if you enjoy reading about the Great War.
Not the usual sort of thing I pick up, but I'm glad I did because I really loved the writing, it captured very well the excitement of the young boys going off to war without ever really glorifying that war, indeed, Cecil Lewis seems to regret the necessity of war deeply. His cultural observations in China also made for good reading, without the snobbery (which he found distasteful) of his contemporary tourists.
A great personal account of the air war during WWI. Having experienced the war in a variety of different role, Lewis provides a different perspective to the academic accounts I've read to date. The main points he hits on are: the different perspective of the battlefield offered by air power, the personal bonds formed between airmen, and the author's belief in the chivalry of early air power. Lewis does go into more personal aspects, but overall a good read.
