https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15736210-the-cut-glass-bowl
"Evelyn, I'm going to give a present that's as hard as you are and as beautiful and as empty and as easy to see through."Was it a curse or a coincidence that everything around Evelyn seems to crumble down? Her beauty fades, her relationship's in decline and all that was related to the infamous cut-glass bowl..Remind me to never buy a cut-glass bowl or accept it as a gift, ever! 😂

A little pretentious at the end but it was OK
The tragic tale of a family and a cursed cut glass bowl. Fitzgerald's vivid descriptions are spellbinding.
The tale of Mrs. Piper and a cursed cut-glass bowl given to her as a gift from a former boyfriend, who described it as hard, beautiful, empty, and easy to see through...
Fitzgerald seems to comment on the beautiful way that life hurts us while also seeming meaningless and empty like that cut-glass bowl.
In the end, Evelyn breaks the bowl in her grief after receiving a letter that her son died at war and seems to have killed herself in the process.
This makes the bowl a poignant symbol of her hard, beautiful, empty, and painful life.
Evelyn seems to give the "bowl" power over her mentality by personifying it into an evil god-like figure who is out to harm her.
Not one of my favorite F.
Scott short stories, because of the depressing and intriguing plot.
However, I love the way he describes Eve's beauty and delivers her emotions.
" And this was probably because of the qualities in her beauty that women had feared and men had followed had vanished.
Her eyes were still as large and as dark and as sad, but the mystery had departed; their sadness was no longer eternal, only human.." The bowl and its role in this story haunts me for weeks, as well as the curse that Eve brought to herself.
As far as Fitzgerald goes, this is a good story, but not his best. I honestly felt he was rather sadistic with his characters less for plot and more for fun, which bothered me a little. I did finish it though, and I did enjoy it to an extent.
“Evelyn, I’m going to give a present that’s as hard as you are and as beautiful and as empty and as easy to see through”.
Carleton Canby, heartbroken, said these words and presented Evelyn with a big and beautiful cut-glass bowl.
Years pass, and now married, Evelyn commits an indiscretion, having an “inappropriate friendship” with a young man who is not her husband, Harold.
Young and beautiful, living in a beautiful house, years pass and so does her own glow.
Slowly and progressively she withers.
There is now irrevocable damage to her marriage.
This beautiful heavy burden which haunts her ever since the beginning.
The Cut Glass Bowl is another remarkable short story by Fitzgerald. Man, he just writes so beautifully. I changed upon a small novella, Penguin Modern Classics (Grey Covers) which contain three of Fitzgerald's short stories. By far, the Cut Glass Bowl is my favorite. It's about the story of a lady Evelyn and a cursed glass bowl that she owns. How the bowl manages to function in all of her major life turning events is so well woven in the story, and yet retains its stand. Sigh. Worth a read people!
Life had been the sum of her current love affairs/ it was now the sum of her current problems/the flight of time and the end of beauty/unfulfilled desire/all the accidents and the little minutes -they made up the crucial hours/radiating divine vagueness that helps lift beauty out of time/ great walls bear down/ 100 prisms, myriad many colored glints and gleams and crossings and interlacing a of light-- little gleams of blue
God, Fitzgerald just has a way with words. Some of the imagery and sentences in here are so gorgeous. The only two flaws with this story is that I had a really confusing time at first and the curse really feels like a perverse nice-guy fantasy, if that makes any sense (without giving it away).For a full review of F. Scott Fitzgerald's stories and more, check it out here.
This is an odd story from Fitzgerald. It still touches on his normal focal points- beauty, wealth, past vs future- but reading it felt different from other short stories I've read by him. It had a bit more.... fantasy horror, maybe? It's tough to put my finger on it, but there were moments where fear was at play, not so much for the reader as Evylyn, but it was there. Still, it was a great story, and it's always nice to have something different from my favorite author.
I love that he can explain how extremely important beauty is in our lives in just so many little pages. How i person can be unwanted and depressed as she become older and how a person can feel left out, sad and depressed with an artifical hand. And i hate that even these story was writen so many years ago, these things havent changed.
The story is quite tragic, to say the least. The cut glass bowl in question leads to some of the most devastating moments in the in life of Evylyn Piper. Every incidence, apart from changing her life, develops her character; it is heartbreaking to see an ingenuous young woman becoming trapped in the cyclone of fate, and systematically, losing all color and ebullience.
A beautifully woven tragic tale chronicling the downward spiral of an upper class family. Fitzgerald vividly describes every tangible emotion; once again spinning a evocative -- and very digestible -- classic for the ages.
This is more of a longish short story. At first the story seemed a little clunky, but it has a way of sticking with you. It's been so long since I read Fitzgerald...it makes me want to go back and read more (besides The Great Gatsby, which I've read at least four times).
Title: The Cut-Glass BowlSeries: - Author: F. Scott FitzgeraldGenre: Classics Rating: 3 starsAnother short work of Fitzgerald's that I actually DIDN'T hate. This one is an hauntingly dark read, all beginning with revenge in the form of a cut-glass bowl, and ending abruptly in death.
This story was in a small book of three shorts recommended by the owner of The Globe, English bookstore in Prague. The collection included Babylon, Revisited and "The Lost Decade". This story could make me appreciate short stories all over again.
Tragic events in the married life of Evelyn & Harold all seem to be connected with a cut-glass bowl they got as a wedding gift. Interesting time shifts as each chapter takes place about 10 years after the previous chapter, tracking their lives through several decades.
...this was depressing af.
Audiobook narrated by B.J. Harrison on The Classic Tales Podcast
A glass bowl as a description of the life of a lady.
The first story "the cut-glass bowl" was interesting, whereas the others were just a compliment
Phenomenal short story. Probably my favorite F. Scott Fitzgerald short story of the ones I've read.
Yet another book i adore by Fitzgerald. His writing is just so beautiful. My only criticism is that I i wish this story was longer.
Brilliant, moving, depressing short story
