https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30255942-a-piece-of-the-world
Andrew Wyeth, his painting Christina's World would immortalize this young woman and her life.
Cushing, Maine, how the family came here and whom there ancestors were is an interesting back story in itself.Although Wyeth makes an appearance here and there, for the most part this is the story of Christina, her family and her life.
Wyeth will bring bit of color and life into Christina and her brothers Al's world on the farm.
Bringing to life the story behind a painting and the life of a young girl who always wanted more than she was given, but accomplished so much despite her handicap.
At times I thought of Helen Keller....wishing Christina Olson - [of this story] - had half the opportunities Helen Keller did.
I was aching at times for Christina.
The touch of a hand between Christina and her brother, Al, was one of the most beautiful moments in this novel to me.
- Many themes to explore:  .....A discussion about the famous painting: "Christina's World", by Andrew Wyeth .....The history of the Hathorn/Olson house in Cushing Maine .....Christina's lifelong suffering - possibly Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease - affected EACH family member.
This novel grapples with real questions that are difficult to answer.
I had read several good reviews for this book by people whose opinions I trust so I expected that I would like it too.
I found it very hard to put down.I was not familiar with Andrew Wyeth or his famous painting entitled Christina's World but it made for an excellent story.
So I read from a nice shiny copy with a beautiful cover depicting the house from the story.
And then right at the very end there was a picture of the painting "Christina's World" and I could see for myself what all the fuss was about.Beautiful - the painting and the book!
It is here where he first met Christina Olson who later becomes the inspiration for his painting “Christina’s World”.
Christina lived a tough life along with her brother Al on the neighboring farm.
Andrew encounters the Olsons through their neighbor Betsy and he decides to express their lives via a painting.
Her future only left her with two choices, to marry or maintain the farm.
Andrew Wyeth developed a relationship with her over many years and was able to capture a different side of her in this painting.
Andrew Wyeth painted the portrait, but the author writes a beautiful story by bringing it to life.
It's the famous painting by Andrew Wyeth in which a young girl's image is set within the Maine landscape of house, of barn, and of an ocean of endless grass.
This is, indeed, Christina's World.Generation after generation of the Hathorne clan have lived and farmed on this plot of land in the small rural town of Cushing, Maine.
The stage is now set and the spotlight focuses on her lifetime as a solo act no matter how many move in cadence alongside her.The artist, Andrew Wyeth, and his young wife, Betsy, become taken with the land that Christina and her brothers own.
A place that would, indeed, become Christina’s world.Betsy James is 9 years old the first time she appears at Christina’s, and from that day on she remains a recurring, and welcome presence in Christina’s life, and in her home.
Now 17, Betsy arrives one day at Christina’s door, and mentions that her friend Andrew would like to paint a picture of her house.
(There are many ways to be crippled, I’ve learned over the years, many forms of paralysis.) My ancestors fled to Maine from Salem, but like anyone who tries to run away from the past, they brought it with them.
“LATER HE TOLD ME HE’D BEEN AFRAID TO SHOW ME THE PAINTING. He thought I wouldn’t like the way he portrayed me: dragging myself across the field, fingers clutching dirt, my legs twisted behind. The arid moonscape of wheatgrass and timothy. That dilapidated house in the distance, looming up like a secret that won’t stay hidden. Faraway windows, opaque and unreadable. Ruts in the spiky grass made by an invisible vehicle, leading nowhere. Dishwater sky.” So begins this novel by Christina Baker Kli
The thought quoted above is expressed by the fictional Christina Olson, the main character of the novel.
Her character is based on Anna Christina Olson (1893-1968), the subject of the painting, whose family lived in Cushing, Maine.
The house in which they lived which is shown in the painting now belongs to the Farnsworth Museum in Rockland.
Olson House (Wikipedia*)The plot focuses on Christina’s life, her hopes, her dreams, her thoughts and feelings.
The famous painter Andrew Wyeth befriends her, and will use her home and land to paint some of his most famous works, including the painting that now resides in the Museum of Modern Art, "Christina's World".
A story told through Christina's eyes as she bravely deals with the hardships of her disease and the effects it takes on her life.
She was a strong and determined woman, who through the progression of her disease would use just her arms to pull herself along the floor.
4.5 stars.
I loved The Orphan Train and, happily, I enjoyed this just as much.
'Christina's World' is a work of art that has been made more special to me after learning the story behind it.
I don't know that I particularly liked Christina, but at the same time I felt a deep connection to her.
We can all be tied to anchores and while some are able to pull themselves free, others let it pull them under.
I think in the end Christina found her world and, I hope through it all a bit of contentment.
grab a blanket, a cup of tea and enjoy this beautifully poignant novel.
It's one of the few pieces of art I feel a strong connection to and I was thrilled to find out the author wrote this historical fiction book on the real life Christina who inspired the painting.
Art is so subjective as each person takes away something different but in my opinion this book really captured the essence of who I imagined the girl in the painting to be and also reading about her makes me look at it in other ways as well.
I feel like this is such a wonderful companion piece to the painting and I highly recommend reading it!
Made to leave school by her father at twelve years of age, Christina’s yearning to become a teacher fell by the wayside at her father’s demand that she was needed on the farm…When Christina was forty-six, she lived with her brother Alvaro on the farm, and through her friend Betsy, she met a young Andrew Wyeth.
Over the years, Christina became Andy’s inspiration – she felt that finally, someone understood her.A Piece of the World by Christina Baker Kline is a beautiful blend of fiction and non-fiction about Christina Olson’s life, and the inspirational and historical painting by Andrew Wyeth called Christina’s World.
So, I wasn't sure how I'd like Kline’s latest book.
The main character is Christina, the subject of Andrew Wyeth’s Christina’s World.
It seemed to take forever before I felt invested in Christina.
The meat of this book is all in the second half, as Christina’s condition worsens, her parents fail and all her siblings but Al move away.
I wish there had been more interaction between Wyeth and Christina as what there was constituted my favorite parts of the book.
So, while I would only give the first half a 2 ½-3, the second half is a solid 4.
But what do we really know about her?It was the same mystery behind the artist Andrew Wyeth's famous painting, titled Christina's World, which draw me to this book.
It is also the history of both 1)the descendants of the notorious John Hathorne, one of the chief magistrates at the Salem Witch Trials between 1692 and 1693, 2) and the Olson House in Cushing, Maine.
Despite her undiagnosed muscular deteriorational disease, which gradually paralyzed her lower body, Christina was once in her twenties, the Persephone of Walton Hall.
Johan Olauson would change his name to John Olson in America.
Over the years, certain stories in the history of a family take hold.
They're passed from generation to generation, gaining substance and meaning along the way.
Here is what I know: Sometimes the least believable stories are the true ones.
Highly engrossing, I just couldn't put the book down.
Even though I was sometimes frustrated with Christina's actions, never have I read a book that unveils the very centre of a person's soul.
Forgive me for my ill written review, words seem to be completely inadequate to how deeply I'm feeling about this book.
I've spent my life yearning toward it, wanting to escape it, paralyzed by its hold on me."Hauntingly beautiful and deeply felt in the complex ways of human strength, tenacity, weaknesses, flaws and vulnerabilities.
"Do our natures dictate the choices we make, I wonder, or do we choose to live a certain way because of circumstances beyond our control?
"I wonder, not for the first time, if shame and pride are merely two sides of the same coin."FIVE ***** Literary Fiction of Haunting, Transporting Richness and Beauty, Exploring the Art of a Life Tenaciously Lived in the Framework of Adversity *****
When the description mentioned that this is fictional story weaved around a true figure in a well know painting I was even more excited because I was hoping it would be as interesting as Girl with a Pearl Earring.But sadly, this was just not my cup of tea.I get that Christina suffered.
I didn’t feel engaged with the story and doubt that I will remember any of it in a month’s time.It would have perhaps helped if I was a big fan of the famous painting Christina’s World by Andrew Wythe but I had to Google it before I knew what it looked like.There was nothing wrong with the writing or the audio narration but not all books are for all readers and this one was not a good fit for me.
Siblings Al and Christina Olson lived in their old ancestral home which had no modern conveniences--no electricity, and no indoor plumbing other than a hand pump in the kitchen.
The book is named for Wyeth's famous painting "Christina's World" which depicts a field of yellowed grass and a woman in a pink dress crawling up the hill, heading toward a farmhouse in disrepair.
Fragile, vulnerable, longing, strong, and persistent are adjectives that come to mind, and every viewer will see something different in the painting.The book is really Christina's story written as a fictional memoir of her life with her parents, her grandmother, and three brothers.
I have long been fascinated with the artwork of Andrew Wyeth, and particularly his body of work centered around Christina Olson and her rustic home in Maine.
Christina is a complex and multidimensional person with a life worth the exploration.
“I think of myself as a girl,” I say.One of the themes at the heart of this novel is the difference between how we see others and how they see themselves.
For as our character, Christina, says, Here is what I know: Sometimes the least believable stories are the true ones.
I'm afraid I'll be in the minority with my rating, but don't let that deter you from picking this up. I admire an author that can weave a story from an object. Christina is a strong, well drawn character and setting was spot on. I hadn't heard of Andrew Wyeth so researching his work was interesting. Where the book lost me was that it seemed to wane on and on and on.
You can read about that and all my reviews at Lit.Wit.Wine.DineI was immediately drawn to this book for so many reasons.
I loved The Orphan Train and could not wait to read another book written by Christina Baker Kline.
Lastly, I love books that tell the little-known stories behind well-known people, places, and events.A Piece of the World is the story of Christina Olson, Wyeth’s friend and muse.
I knew, deep down, when he gave it to me that he didn’t understand anything about me."I was expecting to read an interesting story about Christina’s relationship with Wyeth but this book is so much more than that.
A Piece of this World is inspired by Andrew Wyeth’s painting, Christina’s World.
I am a fan of both Andrew and N.C. Wyeth’s paintings and was therefore very eager to read this book.
The story goes back and forth through time slowly imagining Christina’s sad story and how Andrew Wyeth came to know and paint her.
Between the school issue, her illness, and an unhappy romance, Christina developed into a complicated and sometimes bitter woman making choices that demonstrated her acrimony.
Andrew Wyeth brought out a more sympathetic side of Christina, which he immortalized in his painting.
A Piece of the World examines Christina's World, both her life on a farming ranch in Maine and the painting by that name by her friend Andrew Wyeth.
Christina's movement is restricted by a crippling disease she was born with that only worsens as she gets older.
Later her heart is broken by a Harvard man and her place is pretty set.
Her world is both circumscribed and boundless....I felt the writer described Christina so perfectly there, with her introspection and frustrations, yet her endurance and love for what she sees around her.
And doubly so are the 3 main protagonists: Christina Olsen, her brother Al and Andy Wyeth.
And rejection and leaving were the largest opposite alternatives.This book denotes a life of service.
Most will interpret it as sad.
It never fails to amaze me how some authors can bring back people in "real" life to their readers.
This book holds no foul language and is slow and filled with quite and often introverted people.
The point that many people do NOT roam much from their origins or own natural personality is also a point to take in this book.
Christinas WorldBy Andrew Wyeth 1948"Later he told me that hed been afraid to show me the painting. He thought I wouldnt like the way he portrayed me: dragging myself across the field, fingers clutching dirt, my legs twisted behind me. The arid moonscape of wheatgrass and timothy. That dilapidated house in the distance, looming like a secret that wont stay hidden."Christina Olson is born in Cushing, Maine on the family farm. Ailed by an unknown disease, Christina progressively losses her mobilty
That dilapidated house in the distance, looming like a secret that won´t stay hidden."Christina Olson is born in Cushing, Maine on the family farm.
Unknown to Christina, she, her brother Al and the house itself become a great source of inspiration for Wyeth.
Its through his eyes that Christina can finally be truly seen.Based on Andrew Wyeth´s "Christina´s World", this novel chronicles the life of Christina Olson (the woman of the painting).
Christina´s life was difficult and complicated but what Wyeth ultimately displays on the canvas and Kline on her pages is the beauty of her strength.
I was fortunate enough to have an early read of this forthcoming book by the author of Orphan Train and it is terrific. It is a re-imagining of the life of the young girl who inspired Andrew Wyeth's painting Christina's World. A must-read for winter/spring!
I’ve spent my life yearning toward it, wanting to escape it, paralyzed by its hold on me.
(There are many ways to be crippled, I’ve learned over the years, many forms of paralysis.) … You can never escape the bonds of family history, no matter how far you travel.
A fascinating mix of fact and fiction, I have since spent far too much time Googling Christina Olson and Andrew Wyeth’s iconic artwork.
Christina was possibly the most obstinate woman of her time.
Read this for book club. Received very favorably. I was hooked on this novel. Heartbreaking, yet enlightening. The writing is fluid and beautiful. Although this is fiction, it reads like non-fiction. The romance adds an important element that keeps you wondering, and then...Truly a pleasure to read.
Another great one from this great author!
Loved this!! Very touching throughout.
I’m beginning to love historical novels about famous artists.
Another historical fiction novel that I read was The Marriage of Opposites by Alice Hoffman, which was partly about the painter Camille Pissarro.There were so many things that I loved about this book.
I love it when authors mention other works in their novels.
Look, I don’t mean to be rude, but you could never have a normal life, even if that’s what you thought you wanted.
Don’t get me wrong, a lot happens in that short time and it’s a satisfying story, but part of me wanted more.
If you’re looking for a solid historical fiction novel, this is it.
