https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/407999.Competitive_Strategy
For anyone curious about how industries are structured and how that relates to the strategy they should adopt I would highly recommend this book.The book is slightly dated by its mention of "microcomputers" along with other now extinct technologies and companies.
If Michael Porter's work was not still relevant to managers and industry executives, business professors would not assign this text as reading in their courses.For me, the most interesting part of this book was being able to relate my own companies' position in our industry to the characteristics Porter describes.
Other portions of the book are less relevant and as a result less interesting.
I would not recommend this book for casual reading.
Harvard professor and management consultant analyzes how countries develop capabilities to maintain or further competitiveness in the global market. The development of software engineers in Bangalore, India is an excellent example of how a region can carve out a niche in the global market. Another example is high-end fashion in Italy. In this era of hyper-competition, countries must look ahead and develop those skills and capabilities that would position it in a place of advantage.
Còn ý tưởng chủ đạo của cuốn này xoay quanh 5 ÁP LỰC CANH TRANH và 3 CHIẾN LƯỢC CƠ BẢN (khác biệt hóa, chi phí thấp, tập trung chi phí hay tập trung khác biệt)Trước giờ nghĩ một cách đơn giản rằng chỉ cần cạnh tranh với đối thủ trong ngành, hay xa hơn là những đối thủ tiềm năng gia nhập ngành, song có những yếu tố tác động tới việc HOẠCH ĐỊNH CHIẾN LƯỢC mà nhận ra được(1) Sự vận động của ngành nó ảnh hưởng tới việc làm chiến lược, đơn giản vì nó tác động tới cung cầu: vận động này có thể là do cơ câu dấn số thay đổi nè (ít trẻ em hơn, nhiều đàn bà hơn...), do sự cải tiến công nghệ...
Michael Porter's book, Competitive Strategy, forms the basis for much of what is taught in a modern Business Strategy course in an MBA program.
Porter lays a foundation for understanding an industry at a macro level.
Understanding the 'lay of the land' for an industry using Porter's framework provides a good schematic of the 'spaces' occupied by different firms.
Clusters of firms that target the same customers form strategic groups.
Groups characterized by larger spaces between firms potentially enjoy higher margins, while those tightly clustered fight for the same customers and are prone to price competition.
Understanding competitors is vital in predicting their likely reactions to competitive moves.
Many of the points Porter makes seem obvious at first, but he backs up each assertion with specific examples and he outlines topics in such a structural manner that everything makes sense and fits together to build the larger picture of the nature of competition both within industries and world wide.One area where the book does start to show its age is in its discussion of the impact of technology and globalization on industries and competition.
Porter could not have foreseen the rapid growth in both of these factors and the dynamic ways they changed the landscape for competition.
It's a very general book and it teaches you how about how to analyze different businesses depending on what their rivals, industry and market is doing, etc.
For example, in looking at competitors, you would think about what their risks are, what their financial goals are , any economic/non-economic organizational values, what kind of managers are in their leadership ranks, etc - things that make them tick.
This book teaches you how to think critically so that you can compare your business to others in the same industry.
You will need to spend time thinking and doing research in order to make the knowledge revealed in this book useful for your own purposes.
Por fin lo he acabado, la información es buena pero yo tengo un problema con el estilo de los libros
Brilliant and comprehensive! A must read for consultants and managers to learn the basic strategies of business and avoid common pitfalls that seem common sense but give you much wisdom only in hindsight after having make the mistakes (if you haven't read about them already).The book is an easy read but takes it will take time if you want to internalize well. But that time invested will hopefully be worth it! The examples are obviously dated but the concepts are perfectly applicable even today.
This is one of those books that you have to read if you're to take yourself as a business person seriously. If you haven't gone to b-school and already studied this extensively then you should. Thinking about the market, buyers, sellers and competitors this way, particularly if you are doing something new could not be more important. A true 5 star must read.
It describes what industries and businesses the investor understands well enough to be able to make an informed investment decision.
Chapters one, two, seven and eight are essential reading for both the investor and the manager as they present a foundation for how to think about competitive advantages on various levels while chapters three to six are more tilted towards managers and management consultants by giving hands-on information on how to device strategies.
In the last part, again more interesting for managers and consultants, Porter presents several important strategic decisions that firms need to take and applies the ideas and lessons earlier described.
В общем и целом, книга отвечает на вопрос что эта за модель пяти конкурентных сил, в чём её смысл, как и где использовать и как на практике это будет выглядеть.Три стратегии Для противодействия пяти конкурентным силам Портер предлагает воспользоваться тремя всем известным стратегиям:1.Абсолютное лидерство в издержках.2.Дифференциация.3.Фокусирование.Из книг Траута и иных авторов книг по маркетингу можно узнать, что необходимо быть первым (или вторым, на крайний случай) в какой-то одной области.
Как он пишет по этому поводу: «В ряде отраслей проблема зависания на середине выражается в том, что самыми прибыльными являются более мелкие фирмы (обладающие способностью к фокусированию или дифференциации) и крупнейшие фирмы (лидеры по издержкам), тогда как фирмы среднего масштаба наименее прибыльны.
However what makes Porter different is that he is the founder of Monitor, which is at the end a failure, indicating that there is something wrong with his theory, but in the other hand Porter is very popular and like standard jargon among the business school student, which ironically, there are so many cheat sheet and ready to be used case study that easily can be found in internet.Dig in deeper into this book -finally I got the chance.
In my defense, if I would teach competitive strategy in school than at least at one time I should read this book, to improve my 15-20 minutes presentation about the competitive strategy.
After reading this book, what i felt was Mr. Porter has brought a well defined crystal clear structure (framework) to competitive analysis.
This book has provided the logic to those people who are responsible for formulating strategic decisions in any company.The book has divided into three sections.
The first section begins with the famous Porter's five force model and provides the general foundation through subsequent chapters.
Section 2 explains the more specific analysis of strategy in important types of industry environments and the final section elaborates on three major strategic decisions such as vertical integration, capacity expansion and entry into new business.
The value of the insight and research in this book readily apparent. The microeconomic approach applied to the firm strategy level defines the industry approach to competitive strategy. Furthermore, Porter illustrates the use of his own tools and others' in order to analyse an industry, firm, and opportunities. That being said, the exact same knowledge can be gained from a short strategy textbook, with more rigorous proof and contemporary examples. This book is best left to those who want to understand the origin of Porter's theories, not the typical business student.
I think that reading this book is essential for executives and entrepreneurs. The most important concepts in my option that you can learn from it are:- The five forces of an industry: You will learn how to analyse and understand an industry to then position your company, and create a strategy that can help you win.- The 3 general competitive strategies: cost leadership, differentiation and focus (niche).- How to analyse a competitor moves.
I used to believe Innovator's Dilemma was the business book, but this one beats every business book. It covers pretty much every situation about any company. While this teaches you the basic principles of business landscape, the concept was too level to apply to your daily business decision making. I would like to read more of his application books.
The foundation for academic corporate stategy literature. Porter's 5 forces framework have served Its purpose for over 30 years both in theory and practice. Recommend both for business students to get an entry level understaning, but also more seasoned leaders looking to reflect on their business experiences.
Strategies even today its applicable. Porter worked on all aspects from Brand strategy to Improving the product line-ups. Simple strategy which gives huge value to our company, employees and end users. Kudos to the author who worked on extensively in these areas.
Versatile descriptions about companies and it's industries. Strategies to be considered, weighing the pros and cons of every strategy. Though sometimes stuff repeat often, but it only helps in reinforcing the concepts.
An exhaustive analysis of competitive dynamics and strategies available in the competitive arena Personally found it a little overwhelming but hopefully, I will be able to better comprehend the book's central message with multiple readings.
It has some interesting ideas that theoritical might help but it was very hard to read...
A bible for marketing.
This book is most interesting in the world
A classic read on competitive strategy.
This is holy grail of strategy formulation taught in MBAs around the world. Many concepts are still relevant, although business landscape shifts.
Study book but quite interesting
Really changed my perspective on things.
Essencial
The best business book I know of. It's the business bible. Comprehensive and concise. He gets his points across with plain English. No more, no less words. One of the few books that I read "Appendix" page by page. Most of the concepts are general, but he backs up with comprehensive examples and reasoning. The book is structured and organized in a way that one can easily go back and reference it. Clear sections and heading, summary, bullet points. 1st read for me is bit overwhelming. I certainly need to go back and re-read multiple times.
The classic text - now over 30 years old - on industry analysis as the basis for deliberate organisational strategy. Porter's focus on industry structure as the primary basis for understanding competition has been challenged by authors (notably Prahalad and Hamel) who focused on an organisation's strategic capabilities (and asked whether they were valuable, rare, inimicable and non-appropriable).Porter's focus on deliberate strategy has been challenged by Mintzberg who introduced emergent strategy as an alternative way of viewing organisations.Despite this Porter's seminal piece is a foundation text and a rewarding read.
