https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66528.The_Last_Camel_Died_at_Noon

Let me tell you a bit about that 19th Century fictional feminist Amelia Peabody.
Treasure was not the objective as Ramses explains: “The goal of proper excavation…is not treasure but knowledge.
She seems to have had a fascination for mysteries and crime and her books (20) about Amelia Peabody were written with the pen-name Elizabeth Peters.
Each book (in order) is intended to represent one yearly expedition in search of knowledge of antiquities.
But in this outing, the actual story was pretty fascinating.The Emerson family become caught up in the mystery involving a long-ago friend of Emerson's who disappeared with his young, beautiful wife years ago, while trying to find a lost civilization.
Needless to say, both Amelia and Emerson are in their usual fine, interfereing form as they attempt to not only help the right king to ascend, but to figure out a way to not be put to death and get to go home to England.As always, Elizabeth Peters writes a wonderful story, with the main characters on full display with all their delightful quirks, and the supporting characters interesting, likeable and well-developed.
Con un ritmo trepidante, es una digna historia de Amelia Peabody y su familia.Reconozco que a lo que se refiere a estas aventuras no puedo ser imparcial.
Pero no fue hasta el año pasado que me animé a leerlas todas y en orden.Creí que echaría algo en falta a Sethos porque adoro a ese personaje, pero ni siquiera me ha dado tiempo a darme cuenta de que, como en la anterior, este no aparece en esta aventura.
Golly, I’d forgotten what a masterpiece this is (even better read by Barbara Rosenblat.) Amelia et famille undertake a Rider Haggard plot to find a missing treasure hunter/archaelogist, Willie Forth, reluctantly.
Peters plays with those adventure novel plots magnificently, and though the book can be read without knowing those trash classics, it’s SO MUCH BETTER when you have some background as to why we hang around for so long before things get going, have odd mystical elements, and The Ceremonies, The vaguely-Racist-but-certainly-Colonialist view of the Other, etc.
Of the various elements that can keep a reader engaged, (plot, character, theme, etc.), the only one that worked for me was setting.
The plot picked up toward the end, and I was able to get engaged enough to finish the book.However, I found Amelia too self-congratulatory, her husband Emerson a brutish bore, and their son Ramses pedantic and unrealistic.
I had no particular desire to get to know the characters well and very little emotional investment in their survival.
The chemistry just isn’t right for me, though, and I doubt if I’ll pick up another of her books any time soon.
The plot of this one didn't do much for me, but I nonetheless enjoyed another expedition with the Emerson-Peabodys.
They continue to amuse me, and there's a particularly touching bit when the family has a closer than usual brush with death.
And of course, the Egyptian scenery is always interesting.I like that this book begins at a crisis point, then flashes back to tell how the family arrived there.
It was a nice departure from the usual linear storytelling in this series.I hope to one day see Ramses tell his mother (once, anyway) to shut up and let him finish a sentence.
I really liked this story. I think it is my favorite one too. It seemed more complex and there was a lot of Egyption archeology information going on throughout. Lots of difficult names to keep track of, was the only complaint I had. There were some great lines between Amelia and her husband!
This book, for me, is were the series took a downward turn. I did not like the introduction of Nefret, and the plot was a departure from the usual archaeology driven story lines of the previous books in the series.
In this book, the author has taken a departure from her usual style to pay homage to her heroine's favorite author, Rider Haggard, who wrote such classics as "King Solomon's Mines." It's a fun romp through the desert with less archeology than adventure.
This is one of the more humorous Amelia Peabody books in my opinion. I love all the adventures Ramses finds himself in, and in this book he escapes through hidden tunnels when his parents are being held "hostage" by one of the villains in the story. Great historical Egypt locations too. And Emerson and Amelia are still hot for each other. Love it.
I’m not sure this is really 4 Stars, I just enjoy the light-heartedness of the series so much
This is my new favorite Amelia Peabody book, the best so far in the series. Funny and intriguing.

Campy and twee. Great fun!
I’m always sad to say goodbye to Amelia and company.
I actually had to join Good Reads just to review this book.
In the case of this book, I do not understand the great reviews for The Last Camel..which is many times cited as being the 'best of the series.' For perspective, I love mysteries of all kinds and historical fiction.
Hard to believe this is the same author.
A mother who NEVER acts out of concern for her child, but only out to concern for herself and her husband is not only difficult to believe, but also difficult to like and to tolerate.
She's chosen to do what Arthur Ransome did a few times: to take her familiar set of characters and put them into a fantasy situation, for fun and variety.It's a relatively mild fantasy, there's nothing supernatural about it, but she allows the Emerson family to be led into a mad quest for long-missing persons in the desert, where they almost die of thirst before finding themselves captives of a lost ancient civilization hidden in obscure African mountains.There is conflict between rival factions of the lost civilization, and much intrigue and peril ensues before they eventually escape.Looking at some other reviews of this book, I notice that some people seem to have picked it up without having read any of the others.
For a reading challenge, I needed something published in 1991 and, for my commute, I needed that book to be available on audio from my library.
The narrator did a great job with the book and made this a fun and easy listen.
None of it is explicit -- it's all innuendo and side comment -- but much more going on between Amelia and Emerson than I picked up on as a young reader.In any event, this is an adventure story set in Egypt.
Overall, the plot carries the story forward, but the heart of the book is reading the interactions between the characters and the amusement to be had from watching these proper British archaeologists blunder about.
Instead of solving a mystery that develops as they're excavating, Amelia & Emerson are off to find out what happened years ago to a missing archaeologist and his wife.
After a grueling trek through the desert, which almost kills Amelia, there is a hidden city and of course information about the missing archaeologist (did we ever doubt that they would be successful?!) An interesting conclusion to their search, and of course Amelia insists that she knew the truth before Emerson did.
Ramses plays a big part in the adventures; his doting mama, of course, is torn between pride at his abilities and chagrin at being upstaged.
Love that Ramses!
I love this series, which is the book equivalent of comfort food for me. I've been steadily rereading them. In this novel, Elizabeth Peters pays homage to H. Rider Haggard. It was a fun romp, with the usual tongue in cheek style, and laugh out loud moments. Here we are introduced to the character of Nefret for the first time, who of course plays such an integral role in the later books of the series. Ultimately, this and the later book which also takes place at the lost oasis were not my favourites, but still great fun.
This is one of my favorite books by Elizabeth Peters. I have read it many times as I have the series. I treasure my books. I miss my visits with Amelia and family. I learned a lot aBout the times and Egypt.
I am deeply saddened to know there will be no more of Peters' Peabody-Emerson books - it's like losing a friend.
One thing I adore about these books (I am currently rereading The Mummy Case is the relationship between Peabody and Emerson - a partnership in every way.
They are fully aware of each other's strengths and weaknesses, and don't think a second thought about praising one another, letting the other have the upper hand, and shoring up the other when they need it.
Though there is some loving rivalry, there is no competition.
I think this is such a lovely example of how a partnership is supposed to be.
These are such fun books and Barbara Rosenblat is a fantastic narrator.
She brings the characters to life.
This book was very different from the others in that they are not trying to find a killer.
One of the things that I'm loving about Peters is that she is able to write a series of mysteries that are all so different.
At least so far, I haven't felt like the story is just a regurgitated form of another story.
I find myself smiling when I'm listening.
(Sometimes when I'm walking the dog I wonder if people think I'm a little weird.) :) It's great!
Of all the Amelia Peabody books I've read so far, this is the one I enjoyed the least.
Not to say it's bad or anything, but I found it more difficult to get into.
I think that's because the opening scene starts with Amelia, Emerson and Ramses in very dire straits with their last camel dead, and then jumps back to the events leading up to the camels, then the camels, then the aftermath.
This slowed down the story enough that I ended up putting it down and forgetting it so many times, that I'm actually a day overdue and have to return it tomorrow or be fined.
Such fun to be found in the company of Amelia Peabody and her outrageous family, especially when they find themselves caught up in lost cities, power struggles and more confounded young lovers. Not my absolute favourite from the series so far, but with so many interesting developments I cannot wait to continue the series.
Good cozy historical mystery
Great story with lots of intrigue, maybe the best yet in this fascinating series
A different type of plot than the other books in the series. Very entertaining.
Now that England has reclaimed the land and the mysterious note has arrived scrawled on ancient papyrus, Lord Blacktower hopes that the rumors of the Emersons going to the Sudan are true and that they can help in his cause.
Despite having known Willoughby, Emerson does not hold out hope for the Forths.
he'll pass along the information.Soon the Emersons are ensconced near the British regiment in Napata with a whole plethora of pyramids and Mr. Reggie Forthright.
So the Forths found this secret place by accident and then lived out their days there, and now it appears the same thing has happened to the Emersons.
