https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270404.Seventeenth_Summer
I had to read this for my young adult literature class as this was one of the first books classified as "young adult"! I went into this optimistically since it's described as a love story, but I was disappointed. Although it was interesting to read a book written and set in the early 1940s, the main character is quite dull and the writing style was not for me.
In fact I knew more about Angie's sister Lorraine than I knew about her.
I could better understand how her sister had fallen in love than how Angie had.
I don't even believe that Angie was in love at all.
I couldn't connect to Angie at all.
Angie herself was dull.
There was hardly any dialogue or action between Angie and Jack.
Maureen Daly seems to have more fun describing insignificant things like jukeboxes, roses and everyone and everything else except Angie and Jack and their relationship.
How wrong I would have been!!!Here is the story, set in the early 1940s in Wisconsin, of seventeen-year-old high school graduate Angie Morrow and her first love, Jack.
I just loved it!!!A few times I felt things seemed a bit unnecessarily foreboding, but perhaps this was just a reflection of Angie in the early stages of a relationship, her uncertainty and not really feeling comfortable with her emotions or sure of Jack yet.
Then again, I really was surprised at the overall low rating the book received here on GoodReads; perhaps I am just an "old fashioned girl" and girls today aren't that interested in Angie's story.
Angie Morrow is just so stoic, and plain, and simply boring; I felt that there was no real depth with her character, and I just wanted to shake or slap her while reading the novel.
Jack and Angie's relationship just seemed so ordinary and didn't excite me or made me feel sparks.
I simply couldn't keep on shouting at the book for them to do something remotely renegade, or maybe that is just me.
I simply just wanted them to make me feel something.
A fact which both impresses me and makes complete logical sense.)The cover is incredibly misleading, as this book was written in the 1940s.
(I think it needs a new printing with a nice vintage cover, don't you?) Of course this book is dated, but in the most charming sense of the word!
Personally, I think young-adult romances have degenerated, as I found this innocent and beautiful story to be right up my alley.Since I have been living in the town of Fond du Lac for the past 20 something hours, having to read the last page and say goodbye made me ever so sad.
What amazes me most about this book is that it was written by a girl who was seventeen at the time of writing it.
The thing is, I happen to like this style, and enjoyed feeling everything she did as she experienced the world around her.
Overall...give the book time as you read it, so you can savor the descriptions and fall into the story.
Accept it for being perhaps different from books today because it was written so long ago.
I suspect this book will stay with me for a very long time.
I almost want to look and see if there is a sequel, because I want to know why Lorraine's life was so bad after the book (as Angie explains on page 115) and, naturally, I'd like to know if Jack and Angie really do keep in touch after they both leave town.
Daly did such a good job of incorporating these nuances into the book that only a few times did I realize how absurd most of the rules would be in present day - not to mention how shocked the characters would be.
I liked Daly's style of writing - very informal and open.
When I first read this book in 2011, I couldn't help but remember The Rape of the Lock.
[yada yada she's real embarrassed, okay?!] But eating such a simple thing as ice cream and with my family sitting there an everything, Jack clicked his spoon against his teeth!
That being said, who really cares, Angie?!It's scenes like that one that make me think it's nice to read books that take place in the 1950's educational purposes (and let's face it, to make fun of them a bit), but I could never see myself making an actual teenager read this book.
And once I figured out that it happened "back in the day" although I'm still not sure what time period this was, it became a little easier to read, but it was just so choppy, I guess.I think I may have been more prepared to enjoy it.
I kept waiting and waiting for something to happen, and it never did.Having said that, being prepared for the slow pace would have made this book a little more enjoyable, but I'm not sure how much more.
Whenver there is a fallish type of day in August, as today is, I am reminded of this book that I first experienced when I was entering eighth grade; it was a cast-off from older sisters, and I yearned to be a teenager like them, so I read the book to get an idea.
It touched me so much, and I always return to thoughts of it on days as I mentioned above.
What a brilliant book for a teenage girl to write at a time so innocent and different from our sex-driven culture today.
I am not a big reader of romantic stories, but I really loved this one for its beautiful writing, and also because it was written in the 40s, which made it more interesting to me. Really, really liked it.
I've been on a vintage YA kick lately, and it seemed wrong to read a bunch of old teen books and not try The One That Started It All: Seventeenth Summer, often pointed to as the first modern young adult novel.
Maureen Daly was twenty-one when it was published and started it well before that point; like S.E. Hinton a generation later, she wrote what she wanted to read and found that she wasn't the only one.
The way Daly words everything is incredibly descriptive, making you feel like you are there experiencing everything with the characters.
She is able to describe the smell of the air, to the way a first kiss feels, to the flavor of salty oceanic air.Daly has a smooth way of trapping you into this world with all of the characters, and it's almost as though time hasn't changed since then.
It doesn't matter that this book was written in 1942 because, despite time difference, love will always remain the same.
It makes you angry, and you want to yell at Angie to just please admit how she feels!
I liked the simplistic nature of their love. It made me yearn for respect and honor, modesty and decency. I admire that slow courtship. The plot is kind of slow, but that's how I think of their lifestyle. Slow and simplistic. Innocent and calm. The book itself I think wasn't fantastic, but I liked the romance and the character development.
It's only when you look at the copyright date you see that this was actually written in 1942, and after some internet research is considered by some to be the first modern YA book.The book never comes out and says when everything is taking place.
There are things as a reader that the author assumes we'd know and aren't explained, whereas if it was written for today's reader we'd probably be receiving a little more detail, nor are there any specific historical events that place the book in a specific year.
I hated reading this book.
GASP.), what an embarrassing mix-up!" Vomit vomit vomit.There's also a heaping handful of totally-unaddressed classism; the protagonist is a college-bound New Englander, and her boyfriend is an Oklahoma-native high-school graduate who's working for his family's bakery.
It's not exactly a wrong-side-of-the-tracks upbringing--bakeries are pretty respectable, so far as I know--but it's enough that the protagonist is embarrassed by him.
Due to copy and paste, formatting has been lost.For whatever reason, Seventeenth Summer was just a flat read for me. I didn't connect with the characters, and I really didn't see the romance in it.Angie, our main character, is way too prim and proper. I couldn't relate to her in any way, and I often found myself wondering why she even bothered? She would say how disgusted she was with Jack's eating habits, or his family, and I don't understand why it matters? She's supposed to love him, right?T
It was like an instantaneous "he sees me then we go on a date then we love each other" kind of thing.
Jack doesn't appear to be very into Angie at all, but as I mentioned before, they're "in love".
But Jack is always running off to talk to someone else and making Angie feel awkward and out of place.
I couldn't figure out who Angie was related to, or who her friends were dating...I just couldn't.All in all, Seventeenth Summer really fell flat for me, which is sad, because I was really expecting to like it.
I DID like the fact that Angie was an innocent girl, who knew her morals and was willing to stick to them.
Unlike romances today, where the main focus seems to be doing things at an early age that shouldn't be done, this book showed the struggle that she had in resisting the temptations and how much Jack respected her for that.
Lots of girls these days think that if they save themselves and don't do the things that our culture says are ok and cool, they won't get attention.
If Angie had done what everyone else was doing, I think that Jack would have lost interest after a few dates.
I like well written description and believe that it definitely can make a book, when used appropriately.
I felt like it was mostly filler in this book.
This story could've easily been cut down by at least 100 pages.Angie, while I approve of her standing up for her beliefs and morals, is boring.
I wasn't intrigued by her, but did like learning about her sisters.
Which winds up being a good thing because we learn an awful lot about Lorraine.The relationship between Jack and Angie didn't seem realistic.
Angie is a good girl, she doesn’t get in trouble and she is very controlled by her parents.
The summer before she goes to college she has nothing to do over summer vacation, but then she meets Jack.
Angie and Jack start spending a lot of time together and it quickly becomes serious.
I think adults would like this book because it uses 50’s and 60’s slang and they might connect with the time frame better than teens.
It was a good book but I wasn’t able to connect with the book as much as I would want to.
I got more than halfway through the book and just couldn't do it, I couldn't finish.
Narrator Angie Morrow is just so unlikable and dull -- no wonder no one ever paid attention to her!
The pacing was terribly slow and author Maureen Daly spent more time describing unnecessary details, such as grass and the sky, than describing who her characters were.
Similarly, there was barely any dialog between Jack and Angie, so I'm still trying to figure out that whole relationship.
It was nice, though, to get slight glimpses into what life in the 1940s was like.
All-in-all, I would recommend this book to no one.
I'm not a violent person or a sadist, but I kept hoping something completely unexpected and dramatic would happen, like someone would die in a horrible accident or Angie's sister would get pregnant or something crazy.That said, this does give a good idea of what life was like in small-town America back then.
Lorraine tended to try too hard to get attention from boys, one in particular, and the amount of attention she got directly affected her outlook on life.This book is a classic among young adult coming-of-age stories, and I suppose it's because of its ability to allow readers to identify with Angie and her feelings of first love.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd MY THOUGHTS This wasn't a bad book, but it is very slow-paced and, to be perfectly honest, nothing really happens.This book was published in the 40's, so this book also takes place in the 40's. Just something you might want to know before starting this. Angie, our main character, has just graduated high school and this is her last summer before college. She ends up becoming infatuated with Jack, who's kind of a popular athlete in her town
Or is this the only summer that they will have together?This is a coming of age book through and through.
I didn't really see much of a romance, or chemistry between Jack and Angie.
I don't know if this is just a way that people may have acted in the 40's (though I doubt it), or it's just the way Angie and her family were (her family was also like this).
I know I keep bashing this book, but it wasn't that bad.
I liked the setting and the overall summer feeling to this book.
It wasn’t written as it’s written in magazine stories or as in morning serials where the boy’s family teases him about liking a girl and gets embarrassed and shutters.” This portrays an important piece of this book because Angie, the main character, tells just how she feels towards Jack, her first relationship.
Also, I really enjoyed the author’s writing style of this book, as well as the subtle way that Maureen Daly put the story in 1950’s era.
Don’t get me wrong, I did enjoy Seventeenth Summer, mainly because I could relate to it in many ways.
But no one -- not even Angie's mother -- can resist the charm of strikingly handsome Jack Duluth.
And on their first date sailing under the stars -- when Jack leans in and whispers to Angie, "You look nice with the wind in your hair," the strange new feeling s begin.
It's the beginning of an unforgettable summer for Angie, full of wonder, warmth, tears, challenge, and love.Maureen Daly had created a love story so honest that it has withstood the test of time, winning new fans for more than six decades.
Angie and Jack shared a courtship taking walks, going sailing, sharing picnics, taking drives, and going to daring house parties.
Though the writing was thorough at times it dragged on spending pages upon pages of observations which could have been cut in half to make way for more of a story and the ongoing, slightly messy plot.Even with the society that wasn’t our own and a relationship that might not seem fruitful to some I thought this was a great read to be shown a small glimpse of what living in the 40’s and 50’s were like.
This is a great summer read.
Summer romances come and go, those summer flings that we all kind of want to have but also not to have it because it all leads to sadness and heartbreak and it is not easy to forget.
I read this in 2 hours and because it was a fast-paced read, it is easy to understand and the story was easy to follow but there was just enough damage done, and yes since this is a summer fling (thanks to the blurb) I did (a bit) prepared myself for the ending.
Read this if you have experienced a summer fling with someone or maybe you want to have one OR you just enjoy sad endings like Gayle Forman.
I was required to read this book for a YA lit class, for the week covering the history of YA.
The book basically revolves around a girl and a boy and their, relationship?
Which is weird because I feel like they talk maybe 5 times in the entire book, despite going on dates through the whole summer.
This book was way too long, so much description, I felt like I was reading the ramblings of a young girl's diary.
It was disappointing for the fact that this book was written during one of the most important times in history and contained nothing relevant for the time period.
After going on a date, Angie and Jack steadily move forward with their relationship, but every aspect is new to Angie.
She has never experienced anything like this and loves feeling this way.
As summer progresses, Jack and Angie must make decisions regarding their relationship, as well as maintain a desire to experience new things.
I thought that this book was redundant and quite boring.
It was very clean...their relationship was nothing like the average teenage relationship would be depicted in this day.
Overall though, this was not a memorable book and I would not recommend it.
You can feel, see, and smell everything Angie is going through.
I thought it was neat that I live near the places she is talking about in the book, so I know she describes everything very well.
What I like most about this book is how Angie keeps her head down in the whole relationship.
I also know it was hard for her to pick if she wanted to stay with Jack when she goes off to college.
It is not an easy decision to make.
Overall this book was a nice easy read.
