https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3214291-the-satan-bug
Cavell is handed the case of his life when Mordon's current security chief is found murdered on-site, one of its head scientists disappears...and eight vials containing deadly botulinus toxin AND the so-called Satan Bug (a strain of the polio virus that has been made a million times more deadly, a single spoonful of which could shortly wipe out all life on Earth!) are discovered to be missing!
I've now somehow read most of them the past year or so, but this should be it for a while - no more from Mom and none at the library except a few of his final works which were generally pretty bad.
Not his best work but a fun and easy read. The ending or final act, from the second plot point, is a study in how to write a ripping good ending. The hero figures something out but the villain out wits him. The hero gets an edge; the villain is better. That repeats at least 20 times until the hero finally gets the edge. Excellent.
The movie stops half-way thru the book; read the book & find out why Alister Maclean's books were made into movies.
not MacLean's best by a long way. Flat, uninspiring, uninteresting......frankly boring
To be honest... I had expected more because I'd read somewhere that his writing is as good as James Patterson's. The book's starting drags on like crazy and you'll feel like keeping the book aside and never finishing it...This is how I felt... Others might have felt differently
He even reprises the device of the main character being motivated by the enemy kidnapping his wife.As with most MacLean novels the pace of action is unrelenting.
He seems to be able to see things which Scotland Yard and the reader, for that matter, can not see and that in spite of the villain's elaborate set of red herrings which would outdo Agatha Christie.It begins like a Phillip Marlowe novel but quickly takes on elements of The Thirty-Nine Steps.
Yet there is also something of Bulldog Drummond when our hero chooses to save his country over saving his wife.Unlike modern thriller writers, MacLean does not write down for his readers.
The book features much in the way of surprises (Cavell's exact relationship with his boss, The General, did surely catch me off guard!), and as far as the reader's ability to figure out the identity of the culprit.Having said that, I must also report that "The Satan Bug" is not a perfect book, and that MacLean can justly be accused of having made a few flubs during the course of his complicated story.
My father has a pile of these books that he hasn't read in some time, so I borrowed a couple (this one and Bear Island).
"The Satan Bug" is a great mix of adventure, espionage, and mystery.
Pierre Clavell, half-French/half-English, served with the British Army during World War II, joined the police and rose to Inspector, and then worked as the head of security at Mordon Labs, a high security scientific facility that secretly specialized in the development of deadly germ toxins.
Since I am a mystery fanatic, this is one of the reasons I enjoyed "The Satan Bug" so much.
It took me longer because I was working overtime and didn't have as much free time for reading.
Okay so it's not one of Mr. MacLean's stronger novels, but it works.
Detective, mystery, espionage and thriller and as a result is a bit muddled at times.
I've read that with this novel (which MacLean originally wrote under the pen-name Ian Sturat) he was trying to see if he could write a hard-boiled detective novel.
Approxiamtely one third of the way through the book Alistair MacLean emerges and the book steers back into his territory.Espionage, double-crosses, red herrings and thrills and chills.
It's not a bad novel.
I've read it a couple times now.
Believe it or not I actually read this edition.
Added a bit a authenticity to the reading experience.
The second of two novels MacLean originally published under the pseudonym Ian Stuart - the other one being ‘The Dark Crusader’- ‘The Satan Bug’ boasts a particularly lurid title and an equally lurid premise: a break-in and a double murder at a top secret government facility dedicated to chemical warfare research sees the institute’s former security director, the grizzled, sarcastic and brutally efficient Pierre Cavell, drawn back into the fold.
Published pseudonymously it might have been, but this is pure MacLean: the hero as dark horse, the traitor in the midst, hidden agendas, duplicitous dealings, and more twists and turns than a very twisty thing that’s just graduated with honours from the twisty-turny university.
The sudden lurch from procedural to action thriller is a bit jarring and unsubtle, but that’s my only real criticism.
Alistair Maclean's tale of espionage, kidnapping, a couple of deadly 'bugs' in colour-coded flasks and a secret laboratory facility did keep me reading to the very end but there was too much that was unbelievable.
The confusion between virus, bacteria and toxin was annoying - the words were used interchangeably (OK, google wasn't around when this was written but they had encyclopaedias...
perhaps Maclean thought his readers would not know or care).
All the men had aggressive, petulant, belligerent or truculent attitudes which became annoying and monotonous after a while.

Pretty much by the numbers Alistair MacLean suspense except this time the loner hero is a married loner.But don't worry, Mary doesn't actually have a character.
She's super pretty, helpful and serves primarily as a hostage.
She was played in the 1965 movie by Anne Francis, who made a lengthy career out of screaming when grabbed by the bad guy / monster / whatever.
She squeezed tapings of "Satan Bug" in between three episodes of the "Alfred Hitchcock Hour" and "Brainstorm" (plot synopsis: "Scientist Jim Grayam saves his boss' wife from suicide but falls in-love with her and plots to kill her husband by pretending to be criminally insane.").
A low point for MacLean.
Private investigator Pierre Cavell is called in to solve the mystery of who robbed the Mordon Microbiological Research Center, a government research lab in England which develops synthetic viruses.
The thieves took a deadly virus codenamed the Satan Bug, and it's up to Cavell to find them and recover the virus before it's unleashed.Up 'till this book, I'd only been familiar with author Alistair MacLean's World War II-themed works such as The Guns of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare.
The Satan Bug was a very pleasant surprise.
While it's a little slow to get going, once MacLean gets Cavell to Mordon things really pick up and almost never let up.
One of two books that MacLean wrote under the pseudonym "Ian Stuart" in the early 60s, supposedly as to prove that his by then established name was not the only thing that made his stories popular.
Apparently, he was soon found out and the books issued under his name.
Even so, this and "The Dark Crusader" are a bit odd ones out among the extremely well-known titles of his early bibliography.
Either way, this is a suspenseful and effective thriller, with the theft of "The Satan Bug", an extremely deadly virus dreamt up for biological warfare, as backdrop.
Alistair Maclean was the master of suspense and thrill.
I had almost forgotten this book, but after reviewing The Golden Rendezvous and The Last Frontier, I thought I would look up the list of Alistair Maclean books and lo and behold, I found this book - which I had completely forgotten.
I was young when I read this book, I mean a young teenager.
But this book gripped me and I read it from start to finish filled with excitement and suspense.
I don't have to see a Maclean movie - his books stir the imagination in a way that is impossible to describe.
It's pretty good.
I would've given it 4 stars had it been some other authorIn the beginning it's pretty intriguing.
It has some great thrills here and there, with a surprisingly believable end-of-the-world plot that you don't see in other books of this sort.
Characters are pretty cool, there are some nice twists at the end of some of the chapters.Now that I think of it, this book has EVERY SINGLE element of a GREAT spy/detective thriller.
It's just that the components aren't glued together very well.Something, something prison, then something something killing germ then, after a while it's just something something
Sometimes the movie is better than the book. One of the great thrillers of the sixties is a dud in the book that preceded it. A strange mixture of genres: part thriller and part espionage novel that begins like a private eye book, THE SATAN BUG is written in an utterly pedestrian style. Characters are given unpleasant personalities to create artificial conflict, not a conflict that comes from normal people having conflicting needs or goals. It is difficult to understand 40 years later why MacLean’s books were bestsellers. I gave up at the end of chapter two.
I believe this book was originally released under a pseudonym, Ian Stuart. I only read it for the first time a year or two back. I thought it was good, but not one of MacLean's best. Since then, I have discovered a few reviews and it seems that The Satan Bug is highly-regarded in MacLean circles.Released in 1962, the novel is about the theft of an indestructible virus that presents a threat to mankind. The only way to stop it is with a typically cynical MacLean hero, Cavell!Good fun nowadays, but probably quite pertinent back in '62.
I've always liked Alistair MacLean's work, and a stolen deadly virus plot is right up my alley, so I dived into the book with great enthusiasm.
This waned after 100 pages and the hero was still in the vicinity of the crime, still interviewing suspects.
I had hoped that this book would be a fast-paced chase after the bad guy through several locations.It picked up again later in the book, and finishes on a couple of very exciting scenes, which makes up for the slightly dull over-abundance of legwork earlier.
The ending saved the book and made it a worthwhile read.
Someone has stolen an extremely dangerous toxin from a secret lab in England. If it gets into the wrong hands, millions of people could die! See, that's why I don't write spy novels. I make them sound cheesy. But this book isn't cheesy. It's by master spy novelist Alistair MacLean, one of my faves from the sixties. I'll probably go on a MacLean reading jag so everything will sound the same for awhile. Sorry.
I read this years ago and reread it recently after channel-surfing into the 1965 film starring George Maharis and Anne Francis. The movie is entertaining, but Alistair MacClean’s book is far more visceral and fast-paced. Maybe transplanting the plot from the cold, wet UK to sunny Southern California is part of the problem. In any event, read the book if you like a good thriller.Originally published in 1962 under the pseudonym of Ian Stuart.
I was a huge fan of MacLean as a kid and teenager. He, along with Jack London and Robert A. Heinlein, were my favorite authors back then. I wasn't sure what rereading these as an adult would be like. I'm probably not as forgiving for MacLean's verbosity as I was as a kid. And there's certainly some dated gender attitudes. But overall, I'm happy to say that it was still a fun and gripping read.
Not as much fun as 'The Guns of Navarone', which I read a couple of months ago, but still an entertaining read. This is really more of a detective story than an adventure, with the hero trying to track down a stolen super virus. It's a little pedestrian at times, with much of the action confined to rural England, but the thrilling climax makes up for it. Even that doesn't quite live up to the promise of the title though.
I always forget just how quickly his best works escalate, and The Satan Bug is no exception. I loved this the first time I read it, and I've read it easily seven or eight times since: Alastair MacLean was one of my favourite authors when I was young, and this is one of his best, particularly of the non-war instalments.
I came across this while searching the old book hoard of my uncle. I was a child back then. It was a torn edition but I adored it and read it in record time as it was one of the first novels I had read. Thus, it went a long way in making thrillers and suspense esp. those dealing with bio-terrorism my favorite genre. I love this book especially for this reason.
First MacLean book I ever read, when I was ill with some bad childhood thing, like Scarlet Dengue or similar horrible sounding ailment. I liked to pretend that the reason I was sick was because somebody sprayed me with the Satan Bug!! Great stuff. Very exciting, for prepubescents, and utterly devoid of questionable content such as ideology or sex.
Overall a good book. Good plot and quiet gripping but ever so slightly draggy. Specially towards the end, it really tested my patience. This was my first Alister MacLean book. So, I'm not giving up yet!
A nerve agent and a bioweapon capable of killing all life on Earth have been stolen. A deranged environmentalists is theatening to use them in twenty-four hours. Pierre Cavell has just that long to eliminate the threat.
