https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272049.Tropismes
And since, while we are performing them, no words express them, not even those of the interior monologue—for they develop and pass through us very rapidly in the form of frequently very sharp, brief sensations, without our perceiving clearly what they are—it was not possible to communicate them to the reader otherwise than by means of equivalent images that would make him experience analogous sensations.
The grass was sparse and trampled upon, but on the branches new leaves were beginning to appear; they had succeeded in communicating none of their luster to the surroundings, and looked like children with slightly sourish smiles like one sees wrinkling their faces to the sun in hospital wards.4.something stars, for the images and language.
بدأت الكاتبة الفرنسية ناتالي ساروت كتابة "انفعالات" عام 1932 وصدر الكتاب عام 1939كتابة سردية مختلفة في شكل نصوص قصيرةفي كل نص تحكي أو تُصور حدث ما, تصرُف أو انفعال لشخصيات بدون هوية محددةوصف لمشاهد ومواقف مختلفة بأسلوب مكثف وموجز ومعبر عن إحساس الشخصيات وأحوالهم
Now more generally: a preference, an inclination.This book is a set of 24 stories in less than 100 pages.
These are concise descriptions of action and environment, or stimulus and response.Sarraute's novels are grouped together with the rest of the nouveau roman movement.
This 'movement' somehow includes Marguerite Duras, the film writer, Alain Robbe-Grillet, whose last book was a pedophilic snuff story, and Georges Perec, who writes enormous bricks full of word-play.
It is as though she read Molly Bloom's soliloquy in Ulysses or some phrases of Proust and decided to never write another 'ordinary' book ever again.
beautiful short prose poems written in form of vignettes on characters bearing no relation to each other trying to catch impulses as fleeting impulses - V. Woolf style (whom author quotes as a great influence). The little collection made it to Le Monde's list of 100 best books of 20th century.
And little by little a certain weakness, a certain slackness, a need to approach them, to have them approach her, made her join in the game with them.The game has no end — even the tiniest juncture proves irresistible to luminosity and darkness alike. How wonderfully abrupt and self-directed we are. Sarraute never stays unmoved by the tingling, neurotic beauty of our nature and she uses her words to conjure a subtlety so delicately drawn that it can be perceived only in whisper. And yet it is there. Reticent and unassuming. Vivid and caressing. The realm of inadvertent assiduity.
i guess that’s the connection.nathalie sarraute is the shit.UPDATE: i just read it again and it got even better.here is number 19:"He was smooth and flat, two level surfaces-- his cheeks which he presented first to one then to the other, and upon which, with their pursed lips, they pressed a kiss.They took him and they crunched him, turned him over and over, stamped on him, rolled, wallowed on him.
He could only turn politely towards them the two smooth surfaces of his cheeks, one after the other, for them to kiss."
Sarraute accomplishes more with these brief vignettes than most authors ever even scrape with their entire oeuvres. Despite the 'rule-setting' proposition, this is deeply-affecting. But Sarraute always was a unique gemstone in the nouveau roman setting. A flawless, cutting diamond of work.
Ok, this totally kicked Robbe-Grillet's ass, to the point where I am considering going back and docking him a star because, having read this, he should be able to see what is actually possible.
Where his text is all static angles and shadows and tree-counting, this little book is actually about things -- there is movement and relations between people and instinct and emotion and intensity -- even though it, likewise, is described without recourse to certain types of traditional technique (James Wood would hate it).
This is a person who knows what she is doing when she builds things from language.
As with so many French novels of the era, it is almost cinematic in its level of imagery.
Sarraute doesn't seem to be as widely known as certain others outside her native country (Robbe-Grillet and Duras, excellent as they were, seem to get disproportionately more press), which is a shame.
Tropismes was largely written well before any of those trends began, in the 1930s, and it's a remarkably prescient novel.
It took the rest of the world 30 years to catch up to where Nathalie Sarraute was.
Besides, the only reason every French student is forced to read it is because it's written entirely in the past tense.) So, before departing on my summer escapades, I hit up the university library and snagged a French copy of Tropismes.
In fact, I've copied down almost entire vignettes from the novel, just so I can have them with me when I need to return the library book.My only warning is to concur with other reviewers here that, while Sarraute denies any connection with Nouveau Roman, this is definitely a book that forces the reader to do work.
وهذا النص هو أول ما نشرته ناتالي ساروت.والكتاب صغير الحجم، مهمل، ولوحة الغلاف، للفنان العالمي فان جوخ (ليل نجومي).
وقعت يدي عليه، يوم اقتنيت (عوليس)، من مكتبة مدبولي بوسط البلد.
قرأت عوليس وتركت (انتحاءات) أو قل ابعدته مرات عدة، حتي قررت مؤخرا قراءته.
حيث كنت أرغب في قراءة شيء، مغاير ومختلف، يخرجني من حالة الرتابة التي قد تسببها متابعة القراءة في كتاب كبير الحجم، أو عسير الفهم، فمنذ فترة وأنا أقرأ في (تاريخ الجنون في العصر الكلاسيكي) لـ ميشيل فوكو، وكتاب آخر لبول ريكور.
ولم يخب ظني في تلك النصوص التي كتبتها ساروت بحس مرهف، وذوق عال جدا.
مجموعة قصصية بعيدة عن الكلاسيكية رغم قدم تاريخ كتابتها "تعود إلى الثلاثينيات، إلا أن رائدة الرواية الفرنسية الجديدة في فرنسا تقدم فيها قصصا قصيرة تدعو للتأمل ومفتوحة التأويل.تضم المجموعة المترجمة مقدمة مهمة عن الرواية الجديدة في أوروبا
Barthelme is renowned as the master of the short story, seducer in his short-prose prowess. Sarraute seduces not. She wounds.
Je suis (hélas !) vraiment passée à côté de celui-ci. Je garde un grand souvenir de "L'usage de la parole" et tenterai "Enfance" bientôt.
And about her the entire house, the street, seemed to encourage her, seemed to consider this motionlessness natural.It appeared certain, when you opened the door and saw the stairway filled with relentless, impersonal, colourless calm, a stairway that did not seem to have retained the slightest trace of the persons who had walked on it, not the slightest memory of their presence, when you stood behind the dining-room window and looked at the house-fronts, the shops, the old women and little children walking along the street, it seemed certain that, for as long as possible, she would have to wait, remain motionless like that, do nothing, not move, that the highest degree of comprehension, real intelligence, was that, to undertake nothing, keep as still as possible, do nothing.At the most, by being careful not to wake anybody, you could go down without looking at the dark, dead, stairway, and proceed unobtrusively along the pavements, along the walls, just to get a breath, to move about a bit, without knowing where you were going, without wanting to go anywhere, and then come back home, sit down on the edge of the bed and, once more, wait, curled up, motionless.
A "pile of dry leaves and pebbles."
العنوان بالعربية "إنتحاءات" .. للكاتبة الفرنسية ناتالي ساروت.كتاب ماتع .. الكاتبة برعت في التوصيف وذكر التفاصيل بحيوية فائقة الجمال.عن العلاقات واللقاءات المباشرة بين البشر وبعضهم. وبينهم وبين الأماكن.لغة رقيقة وشاعرية وأنيقة .. وهو تجربتي الأولى مع الكاتبة وليست الأخيرة إن شاء الله ..الكتاب استعرتُه من الصديق أحمد شاكر .. وله على صفحات الكتاب عدة مقاطع كتبها، قرأتها هي الأخرى .. وهي جميلة .. :-)
"heh. fucking sheeple, am i right?" ―too many of these. i really don't have any patience for it, especially given that Sarraute was in her 30s when this was written.(V, XII, XXI and XXII are incredible, though. excellent writing, just sullied by its adolescent outlook. i'll admit that pessoa was guilty of this 'sleepwalkers! all of them sleepwalkers!' drivel, too, and i like him, but at least he had the good grace to hate himself more)
مجموعة قصصية لطيفة جدا وصف الانفعلات البشرية فيها، سهل ممتنع، فيها مساحة جميلة للقارىء انه يتفاعل، ويصبغ القصص بوجهة نظره
Found this wonderful new English edition in my local bookstore when I was adamant about not buying any new books until I knocked back a few on my to-read stack, but this slim volume is a quick read—though you will want to reread it slowly to digest it. I read it first too long ago to have grasped all that it contains; I was too young, inexperienced, unexposed, and my French was not strong enough.
Nathalie Sarraute's TROPISMS is a collection
3.5 من 5.. في قصص ما قدرت توصلني أو أشعر إنو إلها معنى..طريقة الكتابة لطيفة وسلسة.. والترجمة ممتازة..
Following my reading of The Passion According to G.H., I was pleased to find in the Foreword to this book that with her Tropisms, Nathalie Sarraute aims to capture the 'movements' lurking under the instants of our lives.
For what had appealed most to me during my reading of Lispector's short, rambling volume was her discussion of the inexpressive, of the nothingness that comprises our instants of living.
I liked some of them quite a bit, while others passed through me like so much nothingness, like the inexpressible instants of our lives, just like Tropisms, in fact...wait a minute.This is translated from the French, of course.
Lire Tropismes, c'est plonger dans les failles.
Les minuscules expressions qui apparaissent sur les visages, lors des situations les plus quotidiennes, les petits gestes, les impressions.
Écriture froide et chirurgicale, qui saisit l'amertume et la vanité de situations que l'on a déjà vécues, auxquelles on se soumet sans réfléchir, par convention, parce que "la vie est comme ça".
La vie est constituée de milliers d'accidents.
Et c'est le travail de la littérature de les placer sous notre regard.
Tropismes : regarder la réalité, sous le moindre de ses angles, pour se la réapproprier.
probably no option after 2666 than to read a fifty-two-page book of two-to-three-page fiction pieces ("short stories" would be overstating it; "vignettes" is probably correct but here feels too precious).
but these are the most unnaturally—or really actually naturally—thick stories i've ever read.
they are short but cannot be gotten through quickly; i had to reread every one once or twice afterward.
also have unresolved feelings about the slippery shifts—or fake shifts—of points of view, esp.
i was going to start these notes with the unjustified unconsidered line "this book is perfect."
Prosastykker - mennesker fanget i et tilfældigt øjeblik. Eller i det øjeblik der beskriver dem. Eller er alle øjeblikke sådan? Titlens tropismer er fra biologien og handler om planters tilpasning til miljøet, fx. hvordan de drejer sig efter solen. Genren ligner skriveøvelsernes hurtige skitser, der fanger et øjeblik (som forstudier til et oliemaleri af en roman), men letheden er ikke hastig og upræcis, tværtimod er det skarpt skåret og præcist som et digt.
Despite her introduction, denying all links to the Nouveau Roman, this is exactly that, in one of its must minute forms. Much like prose poems. Gestures. Artifacts. Moments. BEautiful, though my heart still belongs to Duras in this type of book. PIcked up as she was an acquaintance of Simone de Beauvoir in the autobioagraphy I had read not long before.
2.5. I like what Sarraute was getting at here but I feel like the lack of any context around these emotions caused me to feel detached and not understand what she was getting at.  The Planetarium, though, sounds really interesting and I'm gonna hop on that one soon.
talked about it here: http://www.5cense.com/14/354.htm
In this domain, my first impressions go  back very far.“These movements, of which we are hardly cognizant, slip through us on the frontiers of consciousness in the form of undefinable, extremely rapid sensations.
They seemed, and still seem to me to constitute the secret source of our existence, in what might be called its nascent state.“And since, while we are performing them, no words express them, not even those of the interior monologue – for they develop and pass through us very rapidly in the form of frequently very sharp, brief sensations, without our perceiving clearly what they are – it was not possible to communicate them to the reader otherwise than by means of equivalent images  that would make him experience analogous sensations.
