https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18526932-the-cornish-coast-murder
I subscribe to the view that sometimes you really can judge a book by its cover and in this case it was true.The crime is murder when the local magistrate is found, on a dark and stormy night, shot through the head in his own home.
The little seaside town of Boscawen supports a police inspector, a doctor and a vicar and these three come together to discover the murderer.
It is all very intriguing and entertaining in the manner of a Christie novel and I enjoyed it very much.A gentle book which you will enjoy if you like your mysteries on the cosy side.
The book begins with two friends; the Reverend Dodd, Vicar of St Michael’s-on-the-Cliff and Dr Pendrill.
However, on a stormy night, their evening is interrupted by Ruth Tregarthan, who calls to say that someone has shot and killed her uncle, Julius.Murder is unheard of in this tiny, coastal retreat of scattered cottages and the two men are astonished.
For Inspector Bigswell, the murder case is a chance to make his mark and he sets to work enthusiastically, before the ‘experts’ are called in.
The Reverend Dodd is, though, not convinced by Inspector Bigswell’s line of enquiry and favoured suspects and sets out to solve the case himself.
Here and there little gleams of light still shone out weakly, but even as one looked at them they slowly vanished, and the obscurity thickened until the landscape was of a uniform blackness.'3 1/2 stars for this classic English Murder Mystery that kept me guessing to the end.Reverend Dodd—vicar of the quiet Cornish village of Boscawen is an avid reader of detective novels.
I kept thinking I knew who the murderer was, but one by one my theories were shot down in flames.The Cornish Coast Murder is a delightful and enjoyable foray into the world of the classic English Murder Mystery.I have known John Bude's name from somewhere, and yet I have not read any of his other books.
This mystery was, in its way, refreshing.
It was written in the mid-1930s, when the accepted view was that one's guilt and conscience would make one--eventually--want to confess, shoulder responsibility for the crime, and accept the consequences.
In that way, this mystery was pure escapist entertainment for me.
The two main characters, the vicar and the inspector, reminded me of Chesterton's Fr. Brown characters.
They were both earnest, intelligent, dogged, humble: the inspector driven by a need for justice, the vicar, for mercy.
The mystery is a quintessential police procedural.
The novel goes through, step by step, dead-end by dead-end, how the mystery is eventually solved.
In this Golden Age mystery, Reverend Dodd spends his evenings devouring detective novels but never imagines he’ll ever encounter a real-life crime more shocking than a penny-ante burglary in his quiet Cornish village of Boscawen.
The vicar and the policeman join forces to reveal the canny murderer.I fell in love with John Bude and his Inspector William Meredith from the very first novel of his that I read, The Lake District Murder.
The Cornish Coast Murder was Bude’s first mystery novel, and while both novels were first published in 1935, The Lake District Murder and its dogged Inspector Meredith remain much more charming and entertaining 80 years later.
Taking more than a few cues from Murder at the Vicarage, published in 1930, Bude's 1935 mystery is quite entertaining if a bit derivative.I love books set on the coast of Cornwall - and this one is also set in March, so it has all of the blustery, windswept charm that we might expect.
When real murder intrudes, the Vicar is delighted with the opportunity to exercise his skills in assisting the local Inspector in his investigation.I've now read several from the British Library Crime Classics series, and I've found Bude to be among the best of the writers.
If you like traditional murder mysteries then this will be a book you will enjoy.
It is well written with plenty of clues and red herrings to keep the reader guessing until close to the end of the book.
I didn't guess the murderer and at first when the solution was revealed I felt a little bit cheated as I couldn't see where the clues were.
It is good to see the British Museum Library releasing new editions of these classic mysteries so that modern readers can enjoy them.
The Cornish Coast Murder was Bude’s first novel – and while it certainly doesn’t have the complexity and ingenuity of Christie, Marsh, Sayers et al – but there is still much to recommend it, it is an engagingly readable example of golden age crime, with a rather adorable pair of amateur detectives.
The Cornish coast, a good setting for a murder, makes for a rather nice change from the Greater London, or Home Counties settings of so many other novels of this period.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
This is one of a collection of British Library Crime Classics of books that were popular in their own time and have since been forgotten.
If this example is representative of the collection then it is easy to see why they are no longer read.
This novel is set in Cornwall and if you are hoping for the county to be important to the story such as by Daphne du Maurier then you'll be disappointed.
The setting is the village of Boscawen, which is the surname of Cornwall's prominent aristocrats family: Lord and Lady Falmouth.
That is as far as Cornwall features.
It will not satisfy today's crime reader.
I've been meaning to read some of the British Library Crime Classics series. This 1930s book is the first one I've tried, and it was an enjoyable read, with an atmospheric Cornish setting. The mix of amateur and professional detectives also worked well. I didn't feel the mystery element was quite up there with the best of the genre, because the solution partly depends on information which the reader hasn't been given.
An enjoyable read very much in the golden age tradition. Should appeal to Christie fans. Written in 1935 it doesn’t seem dated. I liked the interaction between the amateur sleuths and the police and the Cornish setting is a plus.
Sie bestellen alle 14 Tage ein paar sorgfältig ausgewählte Krimis in der Bücherei von Greystoke, die sie gemeinsam auspacken und nacheinander lesen.
Zur seit Jahren unveränderten Routine gehört ebenfalls ein freundschaftliches Frotzeln darüber, dass der Pfarrer noch nie in der Sprechstunde des Doktors war und der Doktor als überzeugter Agnostiker noch nie an einem Gottesdienst des Reverend teilgenommen hat.
Ohne Cobbs Hilfe hätte Ortspolizist Grouch den Fall vermutlich an eine übergeordnete Dienststelle abtreten müssen …Außer einem komplexen, klassischen Kriminalfall an idyllischem Ort bietet das Nachwort von Budes Erstling Einblick in die Blütezeit des Genres Kriminalroman zwischen den beiden Weltkriegen.
The local vicar, Mr. Dodd, and his friend the doctor meet regularly to discuss the mystery stories they love to read.
Then, in the midst of one of their evenings, the phone rings.
It's the mansion across the road, calling for the doctor--the bad-tempered magistrate who lives there has been shot.
As Mr. Dodd pries around the edges of the police investigation, Inspector Bigswell investigates intelligently (but not very imaginatively).
In the battle between intuition and procedure, who is going to arrive at the correct solution?
We have much to thank the British Library Crime Classics for, and this long-hidden gem is certainly one of the books most deserving a reprint.
Reverend Dodd, vicar of St Michael’s-on-the-Cliff, enjoys his Monday evening dinner engagements with Doctor Pendrill.
Reverend Dodds has become quite good at solving mysteries by recalling previous twists, traps and detection methods, whereas they are proving a little more difficult for the doctor.
One stormy Monday evening there’s an urgent phone call to the vicarage from Ruth Tregarthan, looking for the doctor.
For all the enjoyment he has reading about it, Reverend Dodds never imagined there could ever be such a crime as murder committed in this quiet little village.
From the very beginning I concluded that there was only one way someone could have committed the crime; it surprised me nobody saw it, so I thought there was another solution, since it seemed too easy to me.
With Agatha Christie, for example, almost all the characters seem to have a reason to have committed the crime, or act suspiciously.
The end was also a bit anti-climatic and the reason for the crime seemed to me quite weak.
Avoid anything like this book, that was written prior to the 80's, when the PC Police and Thought Police were not yet operating worldwide.

This is the book to curl up with on a cold winter's night with rain lashing against the window panes, tucked up in front of a roaring fire with a hot cup of tea and some chocolate! Delightfully atmospheric, no sex or foul language to cringe over - just a gently moving plot unraveled by the local vicar, whose involvement with his parishioners proves invaluable in the solving of the crime.
There are a number of suspects, all who seem to have good reason to want Tregarthan killed, and the Inspector, with the valuable help of the amateur criminologist Dodd, sets out to unmask the killer.However, his task in the close-knit Cornish community is a difficult one for the residents stick together and tell him the minimum amount of, and often varying, information that will help him in his investigation.
It has a good sense of place and nothing’s too fantastical, and it classically has killed off a person no one really cares too much for, which makes it fine as a cosy.It’s definitely fun enough to make me think of picking up more of Bude’s work — I think there’s more republished in the British Library Crime Classics editions, at least.
If not, maybe I wouldn’t go out of my way for it, but as it is it’s enjoyable.And I still like the mental image of the Vicar crawling around the place with strings to get the trajectory of the bullets.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.

This book was written in 1935, without modern technology and DNA to solve crimes, a great story and I enjoyed the relationship between the main characters, the vicar and the inspector. I will be reading more of these crime classics in the future
I really loved the opening of this story. A dark and stormy night, in a village on the Cornish coast, the Vicar and the Dr discuss Murder Mystery books (their shared guilty pleasure). The phone rings, and low and behold, their own murder mystery to solve.  Sadly the book doesn't quite live up to the opening, but it is entertaining.
I've read another book by this author (The Sussex Downs Murder) and found it really unimpressive so I was really surprised to find I actually liked this one quite a lot.
The mystery is also reasonably complex with a lot of red herrings but that are wrapped up in a way that makes you think "fair enough, that makes total sense" (although 1 or 2 are huge coincidences but that can be excused) and you end up feeling like you've been shown a part of a much wider world rather than one purely made for the mystery.
A Cornish Coast Mystery by John Bude is a British Library Crime Classic.
It is part of a series of crime novels from the British golden age of crime writing that are now being republished after almost disappearing from sight.
The interest in this book is in the details.
The details show the difference between reading a book that written in the past and reading a modern day historical fiction.
The scene is established vividly through the details.
I am certain I will enjoy reading more work by John Bude and more of the British Crime Classics in general.
It's not just the way women and the 'lower' classes are represented, which is repellent, the whole societal structure is appalling to modern sensibilities.
In this tale it is implied from the start that the upper class suspects could not possibly be guilty, no matter how much evidence is stacked against them.
Instead we have a ridiculously contrived solution that fingers someone the reader had no reason to suspect.
Of course, he's from the lower classes...
Unlike Christie, Sayers or Marsh, we are not given a fair chance to solve the mystery, as its solution depends on knowledge only the vicar has.It's no wonder book this has been out of print for decades.
The perfect book for a long car ride. Light, not as tightly plotted as Christie's mysteries, but still with the feel of that time. I will definitely read more of this author's work. Wish I could find it in audio form.(Thanks again, Mumzie, for mentioning J. Bude.)
This had me guessing right up till the end.A wonderful mystery which I found hard to put down.I loved the fact there was a Mrs Mullion, same name as the place I live.If you like Golden age mysteries you'll love this.
I really enjoyed this book. It was written in 1935 and was quite puzzling - I had no idea who the murderer was until the reveal. The murder was solved by a collaboration between the Inspector and the local Vicar who had a lot of knowledge of the people involved, so that was unusual.
Good enough period mystery, quite atmospheric, with a very engaging amateur sleuth in the Reverend Dodd. ending was unsatisfactory, however, in that the reader hadn't been given enough info to solve the crime.
It was a book I read for a reading group which is why it isn't my normal type of book but I enjoyed the mystery and the characters very much.
Instead readers are following the investigation of a murder and through that the lives of suspects and the investigators who in this case is a police detective and a vicar.
The characters have many truths and lies that the policeman and the priest have to uncover before solving the case of the murder.
My main issue with this book is that there was so much description that the point of the story got lost as some points in the book.
