https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77448.Falls_the_Shadow
Words fail me. Just leaving you with this image to let you know what I thought of this book.(CTO)
Anyway, I know my standards are high but that's the way it is and that's why I'm very glad I've found Penman.This tale centers around the power struggle between Earl Simon de Montfort, a true Historical figure, and King Henry III.
and, Simon is married to Henry's sister.But, what makes this story above and beyond most Historical fiction is it's heart.
Enough said.REVISION NOTE: I have just finished a second reading of this stellar novel and need to add a few points:(1)Penman writes excellent subplot love stories;(2) The relationship between Simon and his wife is well charged, lively and passionate; and(3) There is a whole set of chapters about Wales, which deals with Lwellyn ap Gruffyd's conflicting loyalties to his father and grandfather.
The first starts just after Here be Dragons finished, so we are reacquainted with Llewelyn the Great, his warring sons, his daughter and his awful daughter-in-law, as well as meeting his adorable little grandson Llelo.
This first half tells the tale of the bitter ongoing struggle for control of Wales between Lleweyln’s sons (and later his grandsons), and the marriages of his daughter.
The storytelling here is so good that it was easy to forget it was based on fact, and I enjoyed it for itself as much as for history.The second half of the book concentrates on the dramatic rise and fall of de Montford.
I am so happy I discovered this trilogy and author. Although this one did not move me like the first book "Here Be Dragons" it was still another fascinating read. I love how SKP stays so true to actual historical facts and adds just the right amount of drama.
I hate that I have almost read all of Sharon Kay Penman's books. I know I can always reread them, but there is no recreating the first read. I love her books. You should read them too.
Book Two starts up where the Here Be Dragons ends and completes the story of Llewelyn, the Prince of Wales, and his wife Joanna.
Simon de Montfort ends up mounting a civil war against Henry III.About half way through the book I felt like the author had abandoned the tale of the Rulers of Wales and focused solely on de Montfort.
According to the author that is exactly what happened because the story of Simon de Montfort was so compelling that the Rulers of Wales took a back seat to be picked up again in Book 3.

I'll admit from the start that I read Falls the Shadow soon after The Sunne in Splendour; this book, while not bad, suffered by comparison.
(I especially liked Nell, who's more spirited than Penman's previous heroines.) An author who's both renowned for historical accuracy and skilled at creating real people and interesting scenes out of history is a rare treasure.
Only toward the end does the story focus in enough to have several chapters set in the same year, with the result that for most of the book it's hard to keep track of the characters.
Despite these, she is a wonderful writer and creates a picture of the happening at any point that is hard to beat.This novel is about Simon de Montfort.
The novel flicks over to keep tabs on events in Wales at the time, also - the final novel goes back there in depth and is the second best account of the fateful end of the Principality of Wales, bettered only by The Brothers of Gwynedd which I heartily recommend to anyone who enjoys this novel and its sequelae.Ms Penman successfully does bring de Montfort and his family and followers to life.
If it's the first time you have met Simon de Montfort, I would be very surprised if you fail to find him eccentrically charming.
Um, why have I never heard of Simon de Montfort before reading this book?
I liked Penman's depiction of him--he was honorable and firm in his political beliefs, but he was also probably a real pain in the ass at times.
I don't know how much of her characterization was fictional and how much was real, but in any case I found her to be a very sympathetic character.
I've always been impressed with how well researched Penman's books are.
This book, though, made me want to make more of an effort to go out and learn more about Simon on my own.
The second in the “Welsh Princes” series, the description made no mention of Wales or Welsh characters, it sounded to be entirely about Simon de Montfort and Henry III.
The first half of the book strongly features Llelo, the grandson of Llywelyn the Great, a central character in the preceding Here Be Dragons.
The second half of the book focuses almost entirely on the English side though.
I always struggle to remain interested during military scenes but the politics were very enlightening.Looking forward to the last book in the trilogy which supposedly goes back to the Welsh side.
Will review more when I have some time. However...I was a little reluctant to read this because I loved the first one so much. I needed have worried. :) Though we don't have the Joanne/Llewelyn relationship to enjoy, there are plenty of other fascinating and likable people here. The story moves quickly, and even with the usual large cast Penman did a good job keeping everyone straight for the reader.
Sharon Penman is a fantastic novelist and a first rate historian. After you read her books you feel as if you have had an entire upper level university course in English history. I knew little about the Second Baron's Revolt and the Kingdom of Wales but now I do! Terrific reading for anyone interested in medieval historical fiction!
The Welsh Prince series is well written and riveting. The brutality of the time is interesting while gritty to read. The author does a wonderful job breathing life into these historical characters and give unique insight of what might driven the people to do what is now recorded (somewhat) in time.
This is a good historical fiction piece that's generally well written and has a lot of interesting parts, but does spend too long on some very dry pieces of history that I supposed even the author had trouble making interesting. Parts of it were excellent, parts were good, and parts were boring. It was a little longer than it needed to be, but still a good read.
Up to Sharon Penman's usual high standard. What always gets me is that de Montford was Norman, but what he tried to establish was in fact a system similar to what teh Englsh had before teh Norman Conquest.
I don't know why I don't like these books. They're just too slow and not enough happens, which are similar but not the same thing. It's still an interesting read, but I'd prefer to read a biography of these people. They're often less dry than this.
Again, I am not sure if this is standard fare for most historic fiction, but for me it leaves a definitely sour taste, for while the writing is technically interesting and appealing in its turn, it is also true that as far as being a novel, the fiction leaves a lot to be desired, resembling little vignettes to colour what has otherwise always read as a summarised history book.In many ways, this is a failing that is also present present in the previous book, a book I rated with 4 out of 5 stars.
If you enjoy fact-based historical fiction written with beautiful words and fantastic imagery then this book is a must read, but first you need to read the first in the trilogy 'Here Be Dragons'.
This book 'Falls the Shadow' is the second.
Sharon Kay Penman is a master at her craft.This book focuses on the 13th century's Simon de Montfort, Earl of Leicester, his wife Nell (who happens to be King Henry's sister) and his brood.
I'm somewhat ashamed to admit I had never heard of Earl Simon before reading this book.
When a book spurs me to doing more research on a subject/person then I know I've read something extremely worthwhile.
One of the first Penman novel's I read. Superb!! This is the story of the Baron's Revolt and the creation of the first real Parliament. Ms. Penman paints both de Montfort and Prince Edward vividly.
You know that moment when you’re finishing a masterpiece and you find yourself struggling to turn the page and you have no idea why till you realize your tears and emotions have ruined your motor skills. This novel is perfect in every way. Every word.
** 3 1/2 - 4 stars** At the start of this second book in Sharon Kay Penman classic Welsh prince series, the author explains the title via T.S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men": Between the ideaAnd the realityBetween the motionAnd the actFalls the ShadowA poetically apt title, Falls the Shadow follows the lives of thirteenth century French born Simon de Montfort.
History would have otherwise of course, as Simon was often on campaign in the Holy Land crusading, or uniting his allies for rebellion against King Henry -- but, having become accustomed to Penman's way of weaving great romantic tales, I was left wanting more.Readers who are not aware of this time in England's history may very well find the details of this novel absolutely riveting.
It was verging on 3 1/2 stars for me when the final 75 pages or so put it solidly into 5 star territory.
I was originally wanting more of the Welsh, since this book is about the Welsh princes.
But, when the Simon de Montforte story kicked into gear, I was riveted.
Like 'staying up until 2 am to finish on a work night' riveted.
This book had me crying ugly at the end.
And yelling at people dead 700 years for making the wrong choices.
Just gutted.
Ms. Penman is a treasure.
And I'd put her among the great historical writers of our time.
This concerns the later lives of Llewelyn the Great, his beloved wife Joanna (daughter of the decidedly evil King John), and introduces us to their descendants and extended family.
In particular Joanna’s feckless half-brother Henry III, their spirited half-sister Eleanor (Nell) and her heroic husband Simon de Montfort.
Perhaps they got Henry III’s share...Usually I prefer my historical fiction to be light on the romance, and there are plenty of love matches in these books.
This book treats us to the tale of two men - one descended from kings but utterly incapable of rule and one second son of a disinherited family from whose convictions flowered parliamentary democracy.
(Has there been a time in England's history that was not turbulent?) I had been wanting to read more about Simon de Montfort since reading Thomas Costain's The Magnificent Century and this book was perfect!
I will admit to some time of my eyes glazing over in about the middle of this with the back and forth between Simon & Henry, but this did not last long and was well worth it in the end.
The story of Simon and his family is inspiring and heartbreaking at the same time, and no one could write it better than Penman.
I am a little ashamed that I had never heard of Simon de Montfort prior to reading this book.
Then again, think about what it must have been like to have been Henry III - to have been such a bad king, people started to doubt that rulers were God's anointed.
It was an incredible start, but it would've languished and proven worthless but for courageous individuals like Simon de Montfort who chose to fight literally to the death for true change.
The title of this book could not be better.If you were looking for more of the Welsh side of things, you will be a little disappointed.
As regards her work, it almost doesn't feel like reading a novel but rather a transportation into another long ago world - I feel like I'm there in the background of every scene watching characters interact and events unfold.
I was so caught up in his story that as I approached the novel's end and the Battle of Evesham, I had to put the book down and didn't want to read the rest knowing from history Simon's fate.
I have to admit that I new nothing about any of the characters in the book.
He really was the first person to try to limit the powers of the Kings of England, and he almost succeeded.
I think the only thing he misjudged was the common people of England.
Yes, the Provisions were a great idea, but trying to implement them ended up causing more harm than good to the common people.
It didn't affect their lives whether foreigners had power in their country.
War affected the common people way more than the high-born, and that was the saddest thing to me about this book.
Falls the Shadow by Sharon Kay Penman,was amazing.
Simon de Montfoet was a remarkable man, Very clever and formidable.
The way he stood up for people's rights and fought the King and the establishment to set them in place was commendable.
I was not aware that England persecuted the Jews to such an extent: Quote, " We are barred from the craft and trade guilds.
We are not permitted to sell our goods in your market places.
Your church forbids us to work for Christians, or to employ them.
Because we cannot take your oaths of homage,we cannot hold land.
I was amazed!
As in Here Be Dragons, Ms. Penman delivers all one could ask for in a work of historical fiction -- an accurate accounting of historical events, amazing insight into the hearts and minds of her characters, and scenes that draw you in so completely they will bring you to your knees.
Here Be Dragons broke my heart several times, but Falls the Shadow contains what may be the most affecting and heartbreaking battlefield scene ever written.
For anyone who wants to lose themselves in a book -- you will truly be transported to another time and place and, if you're like me, you'll never want to leave.
