https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564449.Scientology
What better time to wander into the dark weirdness of Scientology?So, in short: Each page has about 5-10 footnotes, consisting entirely of definitions to words you already know, like "physics" and "foundation" and "chemistry" (no joke, I remember those all from page 2).
Basically existence is called a "game," and "auditors" are Scientologists who have magical powers to help "preclears", which are folks who, like, need Scientology in their lives to get rid of the alien ghosts in their bodies.
Worth reading to understand the bizarre worldview of Scientologists.
This book focuses on the peculiar "psychology" created by L.
Ron Hubbard.
It's entertaining to read as a psychologist, as many of the basic tenets of thought as Hubbard describes them have been well-researched and empirically disproved by cognitive psychologists half a century ago.
A large cornerstone of the Scientology cosmology is the idea that it is based on reason and science (as opposed to the other legs it stands on, like alien reincarnation and Randian economic principles).
This book alone clearly illustrates how deeply grounded this cult is in the sci-fi machinations of a poor author.
I can honestly say that I don't know WTF I just read.
I decided to check this book out with the hopes that it might shed some light on the allure of Scientology. All I found in this read was the incoherent ramblings of a madman. I do find it amusing that so many people find this "religion" to be helpful. In my opinion this is one big scam, and what's really interesting is that there are people out there that are actually buying into it! But at least Scientologists aren’t knocking on my door pushing their agenda.
On the one hand, there is much to be said about this ambitious and demented little volume. On the other, there is very little that would be worth the saying.
crap
This book is just funny I have got to say. Kudos to a man that can make a religion off of pseudoscience and call it their own through books after books on the stuff. I had to read a little about it though to see for myself.
Disclosure: I bought this for a quarter at a yard sale, to add to my reference library. I read it purely out of curiosity. I would never knowingly give any money to this cult.Review: Anybody who thinks this is anything but drivel is an idiot. You could take copies of "Naked Lunch," an HDTV manual, and a cookbook written entirely in Esperanto, tear out all the pages, toss them in the air, then collect all the loose pages in random order and read them backwards while drunk, and it would make more sense than this book.
In the spirit of Article of Faith number 11, which states: "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may.", I would like to say that I respect what other people believe and while I am not looking to join their religion, I am wanting to understand what makes them unique.This is the book I thought that I had picked up when I picked up "Scientology: A New Slant on Life".
I picked this up hoping to get some insight into Scientologist beliefs, but I don't feel all that much more informed.
The very basic principles of Scientological thought are briefly outlined, but Hubbard gives very little depth to any of the ideas, most of which seem quite contemporary by today's standards (creation and destruction lifecycles/game theory/spirituality and astral projection).
The second-half of the book, bizarrely, appears to outline instructions for a practitioner, describing how to 'process' an initiate.
In short, if this is a book designed to enticle people to a new religion, I'm not surprised there are so few of them around...
Just garbage. Poorly written and concepts are self-important drivel that don't actually say anything. Here's a prime example sentence:"In Scientology, the word 'postulate' means to cause a thinkingness or consideration."THINKINGNESS?! You have a good word right there to use! I know you know it because it's in the sentence. The book is full of these made-up words that just add confusion while trying to sound grandiose.
Wow... and not necessarily in a postive way.
Wow. If you want to understand the basic tenets of Scientology, this is the book to read.
I love philosophy that is on the practical side and this book nails it. Really, really good.
Here are some of my favorite passages:What Special Use Does Scientology Have?
Scientology does things for people where nothing has been done before.
It changes their competence and betters their behaviour.
In addition to these it brings them a better understanding of life.
One outstanding thing which it does: it alleviates burns received from Atomic Bombs.
Scientology is the only specific (cure) for radiation (atomic bomb) burns.
Scientology processing given to persons burned by radiation can alleviate the majority of the difficulty.
-p13 (I think hubbard means asylums)Is this CYCLE OF ACTION THEORY USEFUL?
For my view on why I don't believe in reviews, see my commentary on "The Problems of Work" in my books read.
In having read The Problems of Work and this one in their entirety (original version) I couldn't believe the difference.
Ron Hubbard said in Chapter 8 of the book: "Scientology does not teach you.
What being reminded of it did for me was to make it mine - mine to use to some result.This was the perfect follow-up book to Problems of Work and I was glad I read them in that order.
If you study this book to see what you can use and apply, then buy this book.
I found the best parts of the book regarding how to deal with people especially with the chapter Life is a Game and the idea that people create problems was fascinating.
Life is a game, and there are freedoms, barriers and purposes in anyone's life.
If you tell them that this is a game (which I have), they'll look at you like you're crazy.
A good student of this subject will really get a lot out of the book.
Just read the book, use it and get some positive gain.
at one point i recall the author stating something to the effect of: "if you don't understand anything in this book, reread it until you understand it." it's also got a glossary in the back which is strange.
further, there were illustrations to the "belief" system of scientology which was weird.
how scientologists view life as a "win-lose game." there were other metaphors for thought which i found a bit strange.
i wish there were more about the scientologist's beliefs on creation, etc.
i find that the book, albeit weird, was a good intro to the cultish religion.
While the book states that scientology is not a religion, it sure seems like one. I gave up on reading this book after about two chapters because it did not make sense to me. Also, the writing style is very repetitive, almost to the point of attempted brainwashing. I know some people think Scientology is a crazy religion, with crazy practices...but is it really any different than any other organized religion?As a book, "Scientology" is cyclical and repetitive, but I think that's the point. As an idea, it's not my style, but if it works for others - great.
To start with I am not a Scientologist nor do I have anything against them. I was really expecting this book to be more interesting. I was sadly disappointed at its very basic philosophical notions. It had interesting ideas in a couple of areas, but very little evidence or logic to back up these ideas. I enjoy learning about different religions and schools of thought, but unfortunately there wasn't anything new or exciting to be found in this book.
What can I say about this book, Scientology: The Fundamentals of Thought. It is deceptively simple, but so so powerful. I can communicate better with my friends and family andI am a lot happier in my life because of this book. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
I always like to read up on something before I judge it. Now I can honestly say Scientology is one of the most assinine concepts ever. Written in an oversimplified language, it is also very repetitive and makes claims that it would be impossible to actually deliver on.
This book answered all of my questions on how the mind & life ACTUALLY works. How and why people behave like they do. I use the techniques & information described in this book in my daily life to better myself and others around me.
Though it gives the reader a glance into a sphere of abnormal structure of living, but it certainly gives the reader a deep look into the twisted norms of a cult.
This book is interesting and gives you insights on Scientology. The book was a gift from one of L. Ron's residences ..
Laughably terrible
"[Scientology] is intended as an assistance to life at large, to enable life to make a better civilization and a better game." (Pg 97) Like Gnostiicsm or the Doctrine of "Maya" in Buddhism, the reality that we see or think is real is not real.
Oxford dictionary defines it this way, "the action of propitiating or appeasing a god, spirit, or person." So Hubbard must either mean that they don't need to appease, or apologize to anyone because they have done nothing wrong.
It's also about making wild statements about things like the afterlife, claiming that these statements have been scientifically proven, and then offering no citation or details whatsoever to go along with those statements (hmm wonder why.) I think my favorite chapter is one in which the author earnestly explains that the way to solve your problems is to think of other problems that you could have instead of the one you have.
That should fix the cancer problem for sure.You know how I said this book leaves out the bad stuff?
მოკლედ, ეს წიგნი ჩემთვის არის, დიდი მწერლის რონ ლაიფეტ ჰაბარდის, კიდევ ერთი ფანტასტიკა ...
საოცარია ადამიანს რა შემოქმედობითობის უნარი უნდა ქონდეს რომ დაწეროს "ახალი რელიგია", იშოვოს მრევლი, შექმნას ეკლსიური წესდება და ქადაგებდეს ...
წავიკითხე ეს წიგნი, მომეწონა რომ საკითხი დაისვა ადამიანის, როგორც მოაზროვნის მნიშვნელობაზე, ბოლო 15 000 წლის პერიოდზე ...
თუმცა მე რონ ჰაბარდის ბრძოლის ველი:დედამიწა BATTLEFIELD EARTH მომწონს ყველაზე მეტად, სადაც 10 საუკუნე ბოროტი უცხოპლანეტელები ჯონ ტრავოლტა და ფორესტ უიტეკერი ოქროს გაზიდვას ცდილობენ დედამიწიდან ...
მოკლედ თუ წერთ წიგნს და ამ წიგნს უჩნდება მრევლი, თქვენ დიადი მწერალი ხდებით ...
Hubbard opens this piece of literature with the statement: Scientology is an applied religious philosophy.
That fabricated language of ethereal rationale created by Hubbard seems to be the mating call for non-spiritualists.
All in all, I find what I read to be just like all denominational texts -- where one is told that this is /the/ way to live, followed by the claims of the potential one can reach while under the guidance of said text.
I found it interesting and would read again, to try to further understand the basis for the denomination.
