https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43933.Tell_No_One
I now see why Coben is such a well-loved writer; Tell No One is an addictive wild ride that keeps opening up more and more questions until, suddenly, it all comes together.I'm actually really fascinated by the mystery/thriller writing process.
Suddenly, David is forced to question again what happened all those years ago and, what's more, he may even be the lead suspect in the murder investigation.Old secrets come to light and, of course, the truth is so much more than anyone could have imagined!Having now read this, I can see how Coben has inspired other mystery/thriller writers since.
It was such a page turner that I stayed up late to finish it, I just had to know what happened!This book is awesome.
It begins with Beck and his wife at the lake for their anniversary.
The night begins nicely for the couple until Elizabeth's scream pierces the air and Beck is attacked.
Coben has a way of pulling every single character in the book back to one event...
He knows how to pull them back in like a magnet.I swear Coben is one of the best authors I've read.
The books are thrilling, page turners and I can't get enough of them.
When a man receives a mysterious email from his deceased wife, he sets out on a quest for answers. One of the all-time great thrillers.
They’ve got cute little code phrases like ‘kiss time’ that marks their first smooch, which they know to the minute, of course.
Plus, I read Coben’s newer book Six Years recently, and that one also involves a man trying to unravel a mystery regarding his lost love so even though this one came first, it seemed more than a little repetitive to me.
It still makes them unbelievable characters because they’re just too perfect as a couple, and that prevented me from fully buying in to the story.So far I prefer his Myron Bolitor series a lot more than the stand-alone thrillers of his I’ve read.
I had never read anything by Harlan Coben and had heard he was a good mystery/suspense writer.
I almost gave it NO stars, BUT, to my own discredit, I WAS sucked in to the plot and kind of wanted to keep reading it.
However, all along, I noticed the bad writing, the improbable plot twists which never seemed to end, and the completely contrived situations to help set up those plot twists.
Wow, that was SO predictable and so lame.
I will stick with the one star for suspense, but NO STARS for everything else: corny dialogue, silly plot, predictable plot....
Beck and his wife Elizabeth make their annual stop at Lake Charmaine where they carve a notch into a tree where they first kissed years ago.
Beck stays in the lake while Elizabeth swims ashore.
Elizabeth is missing and later is found dead on the side of a road days later.Eight years later…Beck is a pediatrician at a Washington Heights Clinic.
Looking for answers Beck gets some help from his friends.
It seems two dead bodies of men have been discovered that were buried at Lake Charmaine, along with a baseball bat.
“The sun was now in its death throes, bruising the sky a coiling purple and orange.”  This book is unbelievably awesome. First of all, I'd like to say that I had avoided reading it for too long until I had a chance to try it, then I couldn't putting it down even I had a lot of work this week. Tell No One has a straightforward narration. We believed wholeheatedly about what the author tried to tell, but after that, he revealed a distrustful evidence making us reconsider our thought again and aga
We believed wholeheatedly about what the author tried to tell, but after that, he revealed a distrustful evidence making us reconsider our thought again and again till the end.
In my opinion, I do think that Tell No One is the best crime book I've ever read since I last picked Before I Go to Sleep in 2014.
Coben successfully stuck me with the emotion that left me wanting to read crime novels again this year.
Harlen Coben will be the first author, from now on, when I think of crime novels, I'll pick his other books without hesitation.4.5 stars for this mind-blowing and cunning book !
With Coben, it's very hard to review a book without mentioning spoilers.
If I wrote what I want to write, my review would look like a heavily redacted top secret file.
If you like other Coben, you will lime this.
Not to bad, just part of all the twists and turns Coben always throws in.- Great characters.
Not too complex, in fact they are basically caricatures, but really fun to see how they all take part in the story.- Stand-alone - you can read this without reading any other Coben first.
Summary: fun, intriguing, suspenseful, mysterious, and recommended for anyone who likes their mysteries with shocking twists and turns.
I've just rated a Harlan Coben book only three stars!
I found it hard to give time to this book as it's a busy time of year and a busy household.
Of course this has nothing to do with the book.
I liked this one, didn't love it, and only really wanted to see what happened.
I didn't love the ending, there was so much going on.
Maybe I had to think too hard!
I still think he's an amazing writer.
Can't love them all, huh?!
I really do like his work: "We all do it.
I’m a fan of Harlan Coben’s Myron Bolitar series and decided that I’d start this book without reading the synopsis.
The book was that much more exciting because I didn’t know what it was about and read the prologue with no clue as to where it was going.
I had a really tough time putting this book down for interruptions (sleep, errands, meals, etc.) because it was pretty unpredictable, a staple of Coben’s stories.
You think you know who the good guys are, only to be disappointed at a later juncture.
This was my 1st HC novel which made me seek out and read the rest of his books. Great suspense and a fast read! Highly recommend.
Dr. David Beck receives mysterious emails eight years after his long time childhood friend, and wife for six months was taken.
The 13th ring around a heart with their names in against the tree, was the last time they would celebrate a love that started out just about their first year together in school.
And the clues keep stacking up that there was much more to his memories than the serial killer who was arrested for a crime.
Someone was sending him pieces of his own memories he had never shared with anyone ...
4.95 stars!
So good.
And I will explain my ridiculous rating too.
I don't think I've ever read a book that left me guessing so much.
Literally to the last page.
Any book that can stump me like that is a winner in my book.
It was so full of suspense and twists and turns, one of the best thrillers I've read.
It would make a great movie too.
I just can't believe no one fact checked the historical reference to the architect Stanford White!
Its inaccuracy bothered me a little bit and that's why I made a silly .05 of a star deduction.
Another 5 star read...Man I've been lucky lately:)A friend who first turned me on to Harlan Coben recommended this as her favorite of his. Tell No One was another page turner for me...suspense, turns, twists with humor, drama, and the unexpected. Loved the cast of characters who were anything but one-dimensional. I was totally sucked into this book and bummed when I had to get back to the real world. Highly recommended!
This is not Coben's best; perhaps one of his subcontracted works, Still, I kept reading because I didn't really know what was going on and there was enough sustained tension.'
As a mystery thriller,Tell No One delivers nonstop from start to the end.
Right from the impactful start, there is never a dull moment in the story.
Coben keeps the story fast paced while introducing new twists & turns at regular intervals that keeps you hooked right till the end (like a good thriller should).
During the long winded final act, the story introduces a series of twists and turns, which almost ruins the entire story for you.
Especially the final twist is so convoluted, that the entire story doesn’t make sense, if you try putting it together backwards.
This has a cherry on top.Eight years ago Dr. David Beck is devastated when his lovely young wife is abducted and then murdered.
He logs on and gets the shock of his life when he sees a live stream with his dead wife, who looks very much alive, in it.At the same time, eight years ago, a young man is shot and killed.
The young man's father, a billionaire with all the reach that that kind of money can bring, is also devastated at his lose.
The father never sure that David's wife is really dead has kept tabs on David for the last eight years.
Holy hell, this was the craziest rollercoaster ride of a read I’ve EVER been on- I had somehow never heard of this author before and now I want to read every book he’s published.
From the get go this book grabbed me and I actually felt like I was on the fastest rollercoaster ever and wasn’t able to get off.
I couldn’t put this book down and it stressed me out to no end but in the best way possible.
There were so many twists and turns and I basically just held on and read as quickly as possible to figure out what the hell was happening.
The first twist I was like…whoa wowBut the author threw in one more..and then there were more ..to the point that the last one felt a bit like There were some cliché emotional drama that unnecessarily dragged the last bit.
And also I had trouble accepting author’s reasoning as to why things happened the way it did.In short, a good read that could have been great .My very first Harlan Coben book …not going to be my last .Though I do feel the story read more like a movie script.
There were definitely some things you couldn't have guessed out with out it being revealed to you which is why the mystery portion wasn't that fun for me because besides basic predictions about who is bad I didn't really have any guesses for what was coming next.(view spoiler)[ (David Beck and Elizabeth are married) (Griffin Scope is the bad guy who are after Beck and Elizabeth for the death of his son Brandon Scope) (literally everyone calls David (Dr. Beck) so I'm going to refer to him after Beck)I'm not so sure about the ending, but what really happened is that Beck's dad found out Brandon Scope was bad after working with him and told Elizabeth's father (Hoyt), but Hoyt was working with Griffin Scope at the time and told Griffin about Beck's dad because he didn't think that Griffin would murder Beck's dad for his suspicion of his son Brandon Scope.
For Dr. David Beck, the loss was shattering.
And every day for the past eight years, he has relived the horror of what happened.
Everyone tells him it's time to move on, to forget the past once and for all.
But for David Beck, there can be no closure.
A message has appeared on his computer, a phrase only he and his dead wife know.
He knows how to twist a story around without making the story become stupid or confusing.
I recommend reading this book when you have a night to yourself and have time to read the whole book...
Holy ¢%*\!
This book completely blew me away, one twist after another!
I can certainly understand why it got such a buzz when it was released.
For those who haven't read Harlan Coben yet, I think that Tell No One is a good one to start out with.
Each page and chapter of the book just keep you guessing up until the very end.One thing I like about Harlan Coben is his books aren't really bloody, gory or overly graphic like some other mystery writers, just full of nail biting suspense!
Some nights this book kept me up past my bedtime it was so good, LOL!
This is an absolutely first for me--I read this book in one sitting.
I started it after dinner and DID NOT put the book down.
4 1/2 hours and 339 pages later, I finished the book.
This is a story with REALLY bad guys in it.
More than I'm really comfortable with, but still--the dang story was so engrossing I couldn't put it in, regardless of my delicate sensibilities.
All of that aside though, this was one of the most exciting books I've ever read.
Now the question is, will I read another one of his books?
I'm quitting this with less than 40 pages to go. I just do not CARE how they're going to best the bad guy. I hate Coben's writing style. HATE it. I hate the way his characters act pseudo-clever and the way they're purposely evasive so the conversations have to go on longer than necessary. The plot wasn't even very interesting. I'm still counting this as read. The only reason I picked it up was for a challenge. I can't believe I made it this far.
Siiiiiggghh…….I thought about exchanging it for the book but I was too invested already and honestly I just couldn’t stop listening.
But that’s the way it is with me and Harlan Coben books.
8 years later, still heartbroken, he receives an anonymous email to open a link at a certain time, “kiss time”.
Hmm…….and so we read on (or in my case, listen on) & can’t stop.
I can never stop raving about Coben.
Even though through most of the book you’re understanding the who’s, the why’s and the how’s of the story, he still hits you with something completely unexpected and you’re left saying, “Whaaaat?!?” Yup…….it was good!
However, the villain, (view spoiler)[Brandon Scope, and Elizabeth herself (hide spoiler)] were surprisingly underdeveloped, given their crucial roles in the story.The first half of the book also involves a number of back-and-forth dialogue exchanges, with one person asking a barrage of questions, like in a courtroom novel.
That all changes at the midpoint, when the story shifts from dialogue-focused to action-focused, with an exciting chase scene that made for great binge-reading.More than in any other genre, endings are of utmost importance in mystery novels.
Tell No One certainly fits the definition of "page-turner," and although the story felt incomplete in some ways, it is more than worthy of the thriller label.
One star as I managed to finish this.Coben's books seem popular, so I thought I'd give it a try, in the never ending search for nice thrillers and detectives....Dr David Beck tries to figure out what happened 8 years ago, when his wife and love from his childhood was killed.
So not possible in the extent they describe* credibility of the whole story: screams B movie, or a B cartoon.
the saint is low* the painted saintness of Elizabeth, the dead-or-not wife was too icky* the actions of Beck were screaming B movie in many occasions.Recommend no one.http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/7...
Se este livro fosse comida seria um bitoque.O bife é razoavelmente tenro, embora com alguns nervos e gorduras, (enredo funcional, mas sem originalidade);O ovo está perfeitamente estrelado, com a parte branca bem passada e a amarela cremosa para molhar o pão, (bom equilíbrio entre descrições e diálogos);As batatas, embora um pouco oleosas, estão douradinhas, (personagens insípidas mas bem comportadas). Esperava mais deste cozinheiro, cujo “Desaparecido Para Sempre “considerei um prato de alta cozinha…
Wow. This book grabbed me from the very beginning! I almost gave it 5 stars. It's ALMOST that good but I got a little lost here and there so that's why it's not quite 5 stars. Great reading!! Harlan Coben does it again.
من الواضح أن هذا العام يحمل لي في طياته العديد من المفاجآت فهذا مؤلف جديد آخر لم أكن أعرف عنه من قبل وهذه أولى قراءاتي له ولا أدري بعد إن كانت ترجمت له أخريات ام لا علماً بأن عنوانها الاصلي قبل الترجمة كان أفضل بكثير من وجهة نظري ، وبالحديث عن الرواية نفسها فهناك بعض الروايات تجبرني على ألا أحرق احداثها في مراجعتي حتى لا تفقد سحرها ومتعتها مما يحد من كتابتي عنها هاهنا ويشعرني بأن مراجعتي في حاجة لمزيد من الإضافات ولكن ما باليد حيلة ولكن حين نفكر في الامر من الناحية النسبية ، حين نفكر في أن أولى
ولكن حين نفكر في الامر من الناحية النسبية ، حين نفكر في أن أولى الذكريات لا وجود لها تقريبا قبل سن الخامسة ، وحين نتخيل أنها وبك كانا ، ومنذ سن السابعة ، لا ينفصلان ، وأن اياً منهما لا ذكريات له من دون الآخر ، وحين نفكر في الوقت الذي أمضياه معاً ، لا بعدد السنوات ، بل وبالنسبة المئوية من الحياة ، ندرك أنهما كانا أكثر ارتباطاً حتى من الزوجين شتاينبرغ .
