https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8250.The_Little_House_Collection
I really enjoyed my reread of Little House in the Big Woods for the Book For all Seasons challenge to reread the first chapter book we read as a child.
Like so many kids of my generation, I loved these books!What struck me most as an adult rereading this classic (besides the delightful and familiar illustrations by Garth Williams, which were engraved on my brain from so many readings as a girl), was how much work Ma and Pa had to do to survive in the isolated Big Woods of Wisconsin.
Even for adults, this is a delightful book!
A story about a young girl growing up on the frontier, it was so popular they made it into a T.V. series even though the series didn't do it justice.
Stories as a young girl I could relate to, the mean girl in town, fights with my sisters, and just the struggles of everyday life of any family.
This series is a perfect example of a story well told.
When you're there in Laura's life so much that you can feel her fear when in trouble, or you can taste the penny candy on Christmas, that's a story.
I can't say I've read all the books (I had a book of some of them when I was a little kid but I don't remember what they were) or really remember the TV series well but I think this book might have been my favorite...
I'll have to read further to decide but I really liked how Farmer Boy explained how they did things (I'm really into knowing how exactly things work so it was just AWESOME) and all the animals involved and such.
After the third book or so, I started to feel that the world of these books was a little too static for me.
I realize that consistency is part of the charm of any good children’s book series, one does not want too much variation or complication, but I got tired of reading about the same blameless thrifty pioneer life, page after page after page.
There’s something a little blank and pat about everyone except Laura herself.
I grew up reading these books, the tales of a young girl who is a lot like Anne Shirley in the way she is friendly, energetic and imaginative. It's a different era, that of the pioneers and it's interesting to see that way of life through the eyes of a child. It's also based on true stories, which makes it all extra special. The TV series is great too!
I love these books they are really worth it to get them
Like a warm blanketI’ve read this book set so many times, I was so glad to get it in a kindle format. I love it!
One of our family's favorites. A classic.A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
One of our family's favorites. A fun read. A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
Thoughts on Little House in the Big Woods So far this is an enjoyable read, although not much in the way of plot has happened.
But I suppose that's to be expected from the time.Ok so I remember when I was little, this was more exciting...this is still a wonderful book and I enjoy reading about life during different time periods of American history (growing up, I lived for the American Girl books, then the Dear America books, and Ann Rinaldi's historical fiction).
For good reason, I suppose, due to the time period she lived in.

Laura Ingall Wilder's novels stir the imagination of all young girls.
I often wonder if they should be considered memoirs?
I related much to Laura, the spirited second child and narrator of the book.
I was that spirited #2, with a wonderful older sister who was much more behaved and did well in all her endeavors.
Indeed, it is my sister who got me hooked on the Little House books.
I have reread them often since the first time I pulled one off the shelf in the bedroom I shared with my older sister!
I read the first of the five stories to my daughter.
It was a good look into what life was like back then.
I didn't love the stories and my daughter wasn't nearly as fascinated with them as with Narnia or the Hobbit (which we are currently reading) or with Charlotte's Web or the Trumpeter Swan.
So all in all, I'd rate this book an average 3 stars.
Perhaps this is blasphemous to some as it is a classic and all, but we just didn't "feel it".
I'll update this review if and when we continue on to the following four books.
I read these books when I was younger and loved them.
When I saw the first five books were collected in a beautiful new binding I had to pick this up and re-read them.
I appreciate them even more now, knowing the politics of the frontier and the many dangers people faced in the 1870s-1880s.
Laura has an amazing gift for storytelling, painting pictures with her words, as her sister Mary said after Mary went blind due to scarlet fever.
I only hope the other books are collected in another binding, as beautiful as this one is.
Highly recommended for people young and old.
I've loved re-reading these books after so many years. They are just as great as I remembered. I was especially amazed this time how skilled people were then. They knew how to do so many things that most of can't do anymore. They were so self-sufficient. There is much to admire there. I can't wait to read the rest.
I've heard so many people say these books were boring. Granted, I was a strange child, but I loved them. I loved all the descriptions of how they did things, and all the "typical day" chapters, as well as the ones that actually advanced the "plot." I wanted to know what Laura's life was like, and she told me.
This has been such a great bedtime book! Thanks for the idea, Megan. We actually didn't finish it, we only read 4 of the 5 books in this one, but the girls have been getting a little tired of reading this one for 6 months straight. So we're switching to E. B. White for awhile. I highly recommend this one for bedtime for little ones!
What can I say? I grew up on a farm and I am a Daddy's Girl. I will always have a soft spot for these books. I enjoy it everytime I read them. I also cry everytime I read them. And that my friends is what the best things are made of: joy and tears. I don't care what anyone thinks (Diane) - I like them!
These are some of the best children's books EVER. I have read them so many times. I've read the whole series to my kids twice. Laura Ingalls Wilder is a wonderful writer with a wonderful simple writing style that appeals to young and old. What great lessons from times gone past. The world would be a poorer place without these books.
Oh, and I can't even begin to say how much I love these books. My favorites are "On the Banks of Plum Creek" and "These Happy Golden Years." Laura did such an amazing job of telling her story. A must read for everyone, old and young!
Absolutely loved these as a youngster. Fueled my pioneer spirit and dreams of wilderness adventures! (Also renewed my appreciation for indoor plumbing and heat!!) I'd consider re-reading these as an adult for the sake of nostalgia. :-)
These are more of Laura's childhood Little House books! These are probably the most famous Little House books. In this new edition Garth Williams wonderful illustrations are in full color. I definitely recommend these books for all kids!
I've lost count of how many times I've read these books over the years. Laura and Mary are old friends to me. I bought this full color set a few years ago to replace my childhood copies that were falling apart. I always liked the illustrations, but with color added they are simply beautiful.
Loved these books as a kid. Got the box set for my 9th birthday & faked sick so I could stay home from church & read. My favorites are these happy golden years...courting, how romantic, sigh...& on the shores of sliver lake.
I bought this box set for Hannah and we are going to read them together. I have fond memories of reading these books when I was a kid. Once we're done with these I'm thinking of starting the Anne of Green Gables series. It's great to revisit these classics with my book-loving daughter!
I always loved these, my grandma read them to me, so they are always special, although i have the cool yellow box set. they are awesome! way better than the tv show :), let's not even get me started on that.
I love these books! I remember thinking that sharing the name with the protaganist in these books was AWESOME. I also love the TV show and wish I could watch reruns on cable on day when I call in sick. But I don't have cable. I've been thinking more and more about getting cable.
This series of books is what first got me untreated in reading. I enjoyed the books and the times shared with my father (we read them aloud together). Probably very sentimental when it comes to these, but I enjoy them and plan on sharing them with my children.
when i was little, my mother and i would read these books together while i brushed her hair. it was the first time in my life that i couldn't wait to read the next chapter... a trend that seems to have continued into my adult life.
I loved this entire series as a child and I still do today. This edition is beautiful. I really hope they release the rest of the series in the same format and soon! I would love the have the whole series in these pretty leather bound editions.
