https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599921.Menfreya_in_the_Morning
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here.The best question to ask yourself before picking up this novel is: "Did I enjoy Daphne du Maurier's REBECCA?" MENFREYA is REBECCA redux; a romance about a young, insecure woman who doesn't feel as if she deserves the man who whisks her away to the magnificent house of her dreams - and also a mystery, involvin
For more info about what this is, click here.The best question to ask yourself before picking up this novel is: "Did I enjoy Daphne du Maurier's REBECCA?" MENFREYA is REBECCA redux; a romance about a young, insecure woman who doesn't feel as if she deserves the man who whisks her away to the magnificent house of her dreams - and also a mystery, involving death, murder, secrets, and an insidious other woman.Honestly, it's magnificent how so many of Victoria Holt's (or Jean Plaidy's or Philippa Carr's - they're all the same novels) are good, considering how quickly she churned them out.
People you admired and looked up to with the heroine's eyes of child in the first half of the book start showing their warts after her marriage, making you want to just smack a person at times.The hero, although never squeaky clean, turns out to be a darker character than we thought and makes you wonder just what he's capable of or will be in the future (I really wonder if this is the type of man someone with her security issues should be married to).
I have just joined this blog, because of this book.
Loved it so much as a young woman.
Victoria Holt books set the stage for my teen and early adult love life.
Wanted the drama, romance and gothic setting.
I married, finally, 30 years later, to a man from England!
I have a ranch instead of a castle.
He does not ride the horses but he saves me each day from myself and others.I'll never forget the LAST line: (something like this) " nothing's quite as beautiful and Manfreya in the morning".
The unanswered angst is still deep inside of me.
((view spoiler)[At one point, Harriet is convinced that he's having an affair with Jessica, and when she tries to get the truth from him, he responds to her attitude with physical violence.
Harriet says that it "shattered her." (hide spoiler)])I found the ending supremely disappointing.
I was reading to see if the book was actually going to go the way I hoped ((view spoiler)[My version: Bevil and Jessica orchestrate an evil plot to poison first Jenny and then Harriet -- especially with the hints Jessica drops about having "power over life;" the book ending with Harriet as a wealthy widow evicting the Menfreys from Menfreya, or married to Lister and remaining involved in politics.
But her heroines often have a headstrong friend who reminds me of one of my own dear friends, and Gwennan is one of those, so I enjoy the relationship between Gwennan and Harriet (although not so thrilled at how it ends).Read this first in the Reader's Digest Condensed version, some forty years back, and it's interesting to compare the two.
This is more true to the classic gothic style of the 60's and 70's than some of Holt's are; Holt generally includes a house that's nearly a character in its own right, but in this book the heroine feels relatively helpless, alone, and besieged through nearly the whole book, which Holt is less likely to do.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
I read this years ago, long before goodreads existed. This book made me cry literal tears. It's time for a re-read.
The plot is very similar to that of Rebecca by Daphne du Maurier. But it has some interesting themes such as, surprisingly, marital rape.
Lovely ‘Victorian gothic’ trashy romance 👌🏻
A mistura de romance com suspense/mistério me encanta e Victoria Holt é muito boa fazendo isso, pelo menos na maior parte de seus livros.A história tem como protagonista Harriet e nós a conhecemos através de seus pensamentos quando está com 13 anos.
Seu único consolo é a amizade que mantém com a filha mais jovem da família Menfrey (e que regula de idade com ela), Gwennan.Harriet é simplesmente obcecada pela família e pela casa desta, Menfreya, além de ser profundamente apaixonada por Bevil, irmão mais velho de Gwennan e que a trata como se fossem irmãos.A parte inicial do livro é rápida, contando o passado de Harriet desde a tenra infância, mostrando a que pé anda aos 13 anos e dando uma pincelada no que acontece nos anos que antecedem sua vida adulta.
Her father's constituency is in Cornwall, and while living there, Harriet is enchanted by the neighbouring castle of the Menfrey family, Menfreya.
She befriends the daughter of the house, who is of her age, and secretly hopes the older brother, Bevil, might fall in love with her so she can become a Menfrey herself.
It seems her love was mostly for Menfreya and if Bevil hadn't been living there, she wouldn't even have noticed him.
She married him for Menfreya.
Her fortune would be used for Menfreya, her first love.
Though it was done in the guise of love, it was twisted and I didn't quite like it so much.I also can't fathom why Harriet will allow her husband to hire his former lover as their governess.
I would have pointed out that if it weren't for MY MONEY, they would be facing utter ruin, so they better give in to my wishes if they know what's good for them.It was good however that it was cleared out that Jessica and Bevil weren't lovers anymore.
Menfreya in the Morning is one of the finest in the Holt canon since it features an ugly, awkward rich girl who gets the guy as opposed to a poor, beautiful girl or a rich, beautiful girl (how I hate those ones).
Also features devil-may-care gentlemen, conniving governesses looking to take the Mrs' place, and psychotic nannies.Ms. Holt wrote about a thousand other books of the same genus and species as Menfreya in the Morning but if you power through them all and your thirst remains unslaked, Ms. Holt also wrote a carriageful of "Royal" romances under the name Jean Plaidy.
MENFREYA IN THE MORNING (Suspense/Romance-England-Victorian) – G+Holt, Victoria – standaloneFawcett Crest, 1966, US PaperbackFirst Sentence: To see Menfreya at its best was to see it in the morning.Harriet Delvaney has loved Menfrea; the house and the family and all they have represented to her since she was a girl.
She has heard the ghost stories and legend but now the old clock, supposed to signify the death of a family member, has stopped.I hadn’t read this book in 40+ years but found it held up very well.
Both elements are there, but not as effectively as in some of Holt’s other books.
This book freaked me out at the end! I won't spoil anything for other readers, don't worry. I recently got into gothic romances from the 20th century and this is the first Victoria Holt book I've ever read. I'll admit, it took me a little while to get into it. There is quite a lot of talking. However, the last half of the book is full of activity and the last quarter of the book was captivating and a little scary. I couldn't put it down! I can't wait to read another Holt novel!
There seemed to be one or two summers in my teens when my Mom and sister had this and other Holts and lots of Mary Stewarts stacked all around the house and I devoured them - perfect summer reads - romance and a smidge of history and well written unlike some of the similar sorts...of all of them, this was my favorite, reading it several times through, feeling very akin to the heroine back then. Ah, youth, summer, and romance :)
As always Victoria Holt captures a particularly vivid story. Menfreya in the Morning was a good read. Interlaced with suspicion, love, and doubt I found myself struck with emotion on the demise of one character. Unfortunately this story ran similar with one of her other books as to the identity of the culprit and has as usual such a quick quick ending!
I was smitten by Victoria Holt novels as teenager and always intended to read them .... finally.. after so many years i got round to reading them and it was every bit as enjoyable as i expected it to be ..mystery, romance adventure..and so many twist and turns without putting any strain on our grey cells..a thoroughly light, spicy read..surprising that it wasnt made into a movie...
I like the eerie tone featured throughout this book, set in the latter half of the nineteenth century, but the pace runs too slow for my tastes. Although the plot itself is fine enough it lacks sparkle.Characters are well-drawn, but like with the storyline, they don’t have enough shine. Overall, this isn’t the best novel I’ve read by Victoria Holt, but it was still worth checking out.
Heavily influenced by Daphne du Maurier's Rebecca, Menfreya is a surprisingly well-written, well-paced book. You can tell you're in the hands of an experienced author. But it's let down by an atrociously clichéd ending, which is so poorly written, and does such a bad job of explaining the strange events in the house, that it pretty much undermines everything that's come before it.
This was the first book I read of Victoria Holt. I just love the way she writes, a mixture of love, evil, dark castles, mystery and riddles. I don't like all of Victoria's books but this one i certaintly my favourite! Oh and another great thing is the name of the hero in the book, his name is Bevil :D
I almost didn't read this book cause it didn't sound very exciting. I was wrong it is a very good book with lots of twists and turns. I never knew what was going to happen and I just kept turning pages cause I was so interested. I wish there was a little more romance. But it was a great book I stayed up until midnight to finish it and I didn't even realize it was so late.
I'd never heard of Victoria Holt before I read this book, which I borrowed from my old buildings' laundry room (indefinitely). When I talked to my mom about her, her response was immediate recognition, and a "ooohhh yes!" It was a sweet, girly read; like a Lifetime movie written out in novel form.
This was an enjoyable audio experience. I read paperback version really long, long ago and even now, it was still the same awesome experience. The characters were emotionally rich and warm and the main story plot developed with mysterious touch. Great work!!
I read all of Victoria Holt mystery/romance books in my 30s. Holt books are a higher caliber of romance fiction than something like Harlequins. Historically accurate. Good recreational reading with something to keep you turning pages.
I recieved this book as a Christmas gift from my daughter who knew I read and loved it as a pre-teen when I was obsessed with romantic novels set in the English countryside. Not sure if I'll love it as much now, but it was a very sweet gesture:).
This was my first adventure into adult fiction, and how I realized that their books were much better than those intended for kids. I think it is the book that really turned me into a lifelong reader. Thank you Victoria Holt for many happy hours snuggled up somewhere lost in another world!
NOW I know why Victoria Holt was such a beloved author! She combines that wonderful mix of well written imagery, interesting characters and a good story. Reading "Manfreya.." is not a titillating page turner but more an enjoyable stroll, with a little romance and mystery to make it interesting.
All of Victoria Holt's books I read in the late 60's and early 70's. I reread them recently. I don't know that they are the best books written (compare them to the romantic novels you find now) but they take me back to time in high school, hot summers and box of chocolate covered raisins.
