https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103983.Skeleton_Key
3.5 stars.Gosh, this series is so addictive! Even if it's completely unrealistic. Even if Alex Rider should have died 50 times over at this point.Alex grows on you. I pity his situation of being an orphan but I admire the amount of strength he shows every day and especially during missions to save the world. Go Alex!
Point Blanc = Point Blank (Alex Rider, #2), Anthony HorowitzPoint Blanc is the second book in the Alex Rider series, written by British author Anthony Horowitz.
The book was released in the United Kingdom on September 3, 2001 and in North America on April 15, 2002, under the alternate title: Point Blank.
Roscoe in an elevator shaft in his New York City offices, arranged by a reputable contract killer known only as The Gentleman.
In London, Alex Rider ends up in trouble with the police for causing a large amount of damage to a new conference centre by exposing a school drug dealer operating out of a barge in Putney River.
Alex.
Is. Awesome.
I've probably said it before, but I'll say it again.
And probably again.
And probably again.
He's great!) I am sooooo going to keep reading this series.
Absolutely.
Definitely.
Undoubtedly.I especially loved the villain in this book.
Er, I mean, I hated him.
But I loved how he was done.
Although I did hate him, I also pitied him.
His evident pain - his deep emotions - added a wonderful layer of realism to him.On another note, the "vacation" setting really fits with this time of year.
So that was nice.
:DI just really, really enjoyed this.
Alex is doing a personal favor for Mr. Crawley when he sets off a chain of events that puts him in Skeleton Key, near Cuba, working for the CIA. The Third book in the Alex Rider series. The best Alex Rider book I Have read so far. I could not believe the ending i was actually confused. Liked it a   lot  . Alex Rider Adventure Skeleton Key Hardcover Anthony Horowitz
Another book in the series, this book continues the journey of Alex Rider a 14 year old boy who is a spy for MI6 and is about to embark on is third mission.After reading this book i feel like this one lacked something the other two had and i feel like it was a let down for me and i hope the next book picks up the series again for me.
Plot:  Alex is trying to leave the spy world and MI6 so he can lead a normal life as a 14 year old teenager but things don't work out the way he had hoped when he is swept up again by MI6 and the CIA whisked into another mission.
Rating: 3.5*The Alex Rider series is a fun read although it is a bit far fetched at times (especially the parts where Alex a 14 year old boy manages to escape near death situations while his adult counterparts mostly fall victim to them)! Overall a fun read and quite action packed!
I'm sorry, but this book was absolutely horrible.
In this book, we don't only get to see Alex's master skills on being a spy but also it reminded us that he is still just a boy, longing for parents that he never had.
On the downside, Horowitz also introduced us a new character, Sabina Pleasure, who possibly will appear more in the future books.
I don't know what got into Horowitz' head for doing this but come on, this is a spy book!!
If a girl doesn't have interest in spy books, she will never have any interest in it even if you introduce a romantic angle to it.
I really enjoyed Point Blank, but this book pretty much paled in comparison to it.
After some unfortunate events where a "gang" of sorts is after Alex, M16 tells him he must leave the country for a period of time, so Alex accepts a job with the CIA in Skeleton Key, an island near Cuba.It took a very long time for me to get into this book.
It took far too long for the story to actually start, and too much was given away in the beginning.
One of the parts is in the middle, and it is when Alex, Carver, and Troy went Scuba diving for a possible underwater entrance to Sarov’s mansion.
Carver and Troy (two Adults who work for the CIA) go down first.
The action filled part in the end, is when Alex is on a plane, seconds away from leaving for Russia.
The only reason he is going to Russia is because Sarov wants to make Alex his child.
He is really pulling the chord on the stun grenade, drops it, and ran out the door second before it went off.
Better yet, this is where Alex and Sabina first meet; after his mishap with that girl in Point Blanc, he deserved a female companion...and, now, he has one.The Bad: Since a lot of this takes place on sunny beaches and in or near pools, there's a lot of talk about scantily clad people sunbathing and such.
(hide spoiler)]Drugs: Stray references to alcohol.Frightening/Intense Scenes: (view spoiler)[The villain shooting himself; (hide spoiler)] implied deaths of characters; creepy villain.Other: It's mentioned that Alex is attracted to Sabina because of her "rude jokes".
Chinese gang member was trying to poison players at Wimbledon for reasons you will have to find out!The book begins with the trade of nuclear weapons but the people selling the arms are killed by alligators in a unexpected way.
So alex became a ball boy.
Soon alex finds himself in a intense situation where he finds out that the players are being drugged and the guard tries to kill him!
Alex escapes and figures out the reason behind why the man was drugging the players.
I love the Alex Rider series, and upon reading this book, I was thrilled.
In the first two books, I always thought that if I were Alex I'd love doing all the spy work, but in this book, I connected to him more, and what with all the blackmail, I actually started understanding the way he feels- he just wants a normal childhood, with friends and avoiding homework and girls.
It took the series to a new level, in terms of emotional development, and I loved the plot and action it provided.
The cover of the book isn't very exciting but the content inside the book definitely is.My favorite character in the book is Conrad.
He was blown into pieces and almost died.
Specialist doctors managed to piece him back together.
This quote is very interesting because it leaves uncertainty to what will happen to Alex Rider (the main character).
In the book the main evil character tries to set off a nuclear bomb but doesn't succeed.
This book was really great and I will definitely read more of the series by Anthony Horowitz.
One day after soccer practice, Crawley, a man who works for MI6, appears, asking Alex to be a ball boy and keep an eye on the Wimbledon tennis tournament and watch for anything supspicious, since there had been a break in.
After foiling the mans plan to sabatoge the tournament, Alex thinks that he will be able to sit back and relax on his vacation with one of the ball girls from the tournament, Sabina.
While on this vacation, though, he is attacked by another man from the same gang that the mysterious guard was from.

great book i am reading it right now it has a very interesting story line but it is kind of ridiculous that the spy is fourteen.
To review...
The main characters in this book are Alex Rider; a 14 year old English school boy who was drafted by MI6 (British special forces) after his uncle was killed in action.
The main plotline of this book is that Sarov has a nuclear sub fleet he’s going to plant a bomb on them that would blow them up pretty much killing like half of the world’s population.
Later the president will be found dead and Sarov will take his place.
I would also recommend this to my friends and to anybody who likes quick paced semi-violent action books.
It's a spy novel with a 14 year old boy as the hero (and I mean hero in all aspects *eye roll*) who saved the day world from a crazy military man who wanted to clean up the world with his nuclear bombs.
Yes, a 14 year old boy saved the world.I appreciate the fun it presents but it didn't reel me in.
I own the whole series so I know I'll read the next books eventually.
I have other more fun- truly more fun- books to read ;) If you've got kids fixated with playing crime busters, they would adore this series to bits!
In Skeleton Key, Alex Rider is teamed up with the CIA on a mission to the island of Skeleton Key, the home of a Russian genral that has lost his life and son. The Russian genral also has a nuclear weapon....
Read with one of my students. It was OK, 2.5
The plot of the story was well developed, and the transitions from place to place was well done .
Another awesome Alex Rider adventure!
These books are entertaining.In this third installment of Alex Rider, he starts helping a guy of MI6 to look for a guy in a tennis game, it's not an official operation, this agent just tells him to pretend he's working there and look for a suspicious Chinese guy.
oh well...I don't like either how Anthony Horowitz tends to generalize things in many of his books, like for example, Alex was in Cuba and he was standing out a lot there because can you imagine how a British boy could look around many dark skinned Caribbeans??.
"Skeleton Key" by Anthony Horowitz, is the third installment in his series: Alex Rider.
In this book, Alex faces a deadly enemy, who goes by the name of General Alexeis Sarov.
This book also hits a lot of personal points when it comes to Alex being a orphan and the General having lost his son in ze Middle East.
What I enjoyed about this book was the intellectual character of Alex Rider that Anthony Horowitz portrays in this book.
(hide spoiler)], Alex says he would never want to be the General's Son, which makes Sarov commit suicide!
The third installment of the spy- adventure series "Alex Rider" comes in the suspenseful and gripping form of Skeleton Key. Teenager Alex Rider, the disinclined but prized spy of the MI6, is in trouble with the Chinese Triads- in order to save him, the MI6 have to get him out of the country, and this means that he will have to act as the cover for two CIA agents as they investigate Russian General Sarov on a private island near Cuba.
This causes a massive blow to the reader, who might have been feeling sympathy for Sarov, and then is reminded of his dark intentions.Horowitz writes Skeleton Key with his unique, suspenseful style, making sure the reader is glued to the book all the way through.
Skeleton Key is a thrilling story about a teen spy named Alex Rider who is back to save the world once again.
The plot of this story is similar to when the U.S. dropped the atomic bomb on Japan to try and take over and end the war once and for all.
Horowitz always writes with a lot of detail and emotion and he didn’t fail to do that in this story which is why this book was so thrilling.
I didn’t like how Horowitz started the story off slow as he does in most of his books.
The story begins in England where Alex is given a mission, the story goes that Alex gets mixed up in a chinese triad operation(must read the book to find out who the triads are)and that he has to flee out of England if he does not want to get killed.
The CIA are very curious of what he is doing because he has invited the president of Russia over to his mansion in an island in Cuba called Skeleton Key. Alex has to be part of the operatin and is put with to CIA agents and there cover are being a family because it general would use the uranium for he is left guessing until the end of the story.
Alex has just returned from a mission and he wants his life to get back to normal.
They don’t trust him initially because of his youth, but Alex saves the life of one of the agents, and works out part of their mission for himself.
When the agents are killed in action, Alex takes over their mission and discovers that a General Sarov is planning to detonate a nuclear bomb in Russia – which will destroy much of the surrounding area immediately, and poison the rest of the world.
These books are action-packed, exciting, and quality reading.
