https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/230138.Ishi_in_Two_Worlds
Instead he was taken in by kindhearted scholars who showed him respect and love, and who wanted to learn whatever he was willing to teach them about his long-dead people.
Ishi showed them the same respect, love, and willingness to learn in return, and his cheerful disposition and childlike wonder at everyday things the white man took for granted inspired a generation.
The description in this book of the long-dead Yahi culture is so vivid and beautiful that it really brings it home to you what the world lost because of the recklessness and greed of the gold rush settlers.
A beacon of empathetic integrity in a scholarly package.2013: The book is having trouble getting through contemporary radar screening for political incorrectness and racial/ethnic/cultural condescension, notably in part 2, detailing Ishi's life as assistant janitor and resident anthropological specimen at the museum headed by Professor A.L. Kroeber (1876-1960; the author's late husband and to whom the book is dedicated).So, taking the time frame into mind and without discounting the whole book, I'd say this merits about 3 stars.
2.5 starsI and a friend read this when it was first published (1961).
At the time in urban Baltimore, pretty much the only knowledge of Indian culture was as depicted in t.v.,movies and comics.
I found the writing a bit ponderous especially the interminable introduction.
The point of view, progressive for the timeline of Ishi's life and the time the book was written, is dated.
That's perhaps a good thing as it demonstrates that some positive change to our cultural POV.
Still worth the read.
The author was Ursula LeGuin's mother and perhaps you can see some influence to LeGuin's choice in writing subjects.
This biography lumbers along a bit (especially the foreword by the author's son, which I advise you to skip) but the story of Ishi is historically and anthropologically valuable because he had no contact with non-Natives until he was captured late in his life (1911), and was considered the last North American Indian to live free of white men's influence.
Taken in by a professor at the University of California, he lived out his life at their Museum of Anthropology.
Once he learned a little English, he could enlighten his new friends about his culture.
A linguist from the University of California read about the discovery in the papers and took the train to Oroville, taking word lists of two Yana dialects with him.
Though some elderly speakers of Yana survived into the 1930s, and some people with partial Yana ancestry are alive even today, the man was the last Yana to live as a Yana.The man was taken to the Museum of Anthropology at the University of California, then in San Francisco (now the Phoebe A.
He never told his Yahi name; in the white society he went by Ishi, the Yana word for man.
Every American should read this in order to have some small grasp on the genocide that happened in California and all over the rest of the country.
Other reviewers have said it better than I can, but this work is a valuable historical document, unintentionally probing and illuminating the circumstances of the genocide of California’s native people, while being unspeakably patronizing toward one of the victims of that genocide.
Ended very well. I learned more abt Indian folks more in the last 50 pages than the rest of the book. But an overall interesting saga.
Kroeber spends the first half of the book providing background of Yana and Yahi culture and California history, which is good to know to a point; it's important to understand the context of the life Ishi lived, but at a certain point it just turned into a history of white people's recollections of the area, nothing substantial about Ishi himself at all.
That's why the last section of the book about the trip the staff took Ishi toward the end of his life was the most interesting part to me, because he finally got to face the psychological demons that he was forced to deal with since walking into white culture in 1911.
Although after some discussion with a friend, I am finally able to see how this book perpetuates racism.
The book unfortunately supports the idea that native cultures and therefore (conveniently for the powers that be) native rights should be contained far away from contemporary concerns in a regrettable past, creating a reservation in time as well as space.
Another aspect of the book that I enjoyed was the way that this writer's style resonates with Ursula LeGuin's speculative fiction writing.
Perhaps the ideas explored in this book are more appropriate to fiction.
Ishi, the last "wild" Yahi Indian, stumbles into the modern world of post-Gold-Rush California after 12 years of hiding with the remnant of his people.
Luckily, he's adopted by 2 men who are interested in linguistics, native Americans, and who work for a university museum.
I found the narrative to be extremely interesting as it began by expounding upon the history of the wiping out of the area's "wild" native Americans.
I found it quite shocking that most of this started with horrible men who liked to kill the natives for sport and fun.
Taken into custody, he was passed into the care of anthropologist Alfred Kroeber and passed the rest of his days as peacefully as could probably be expected.Ishi is a cypher at the center of this excellent book.
Author Theodora Kroeber presents a fascinating and well-written account of his life at the University of California, as well as a moving reconstruction of his final years with a dwindling band of fellow tribesmen, but she is unable to penetrate his point of view.
The human mystery known as Ishi is fascinating to contemplate and will no doubt make this a book that rewards further reading.
Countless native Americans were hounded to death by settlers from back east, in the name of “Manifest Destiny.” This is the story of one who survived—barely.
Ishi’s people were all dead, mostly from genocide, when he stumbled into the white man’s world in 1911, fearful and half dead from hunger and exhaustion.
"The Wild Man of Oroville," people called him.
Naturally he was perplexed by the strange new world he found himself in, and some people treated him like a child, but you’ve got to admire him.
A sad tale that all Americans should read, because Ishi’s tragedy was repeated so many times in our history.
Very interesting story I had never heard about before.The good:The last free native American.
The many anthropological things that made him and his people unique, in both America and the world.
How he saw our society, one of his friends put it this way after his death "He looked upon us as sophisticated children-smart, but not wise." All fascinating reading.The bad:The author switches between writing his story and the story of his people to writing an academic paper (she was an academic so this may be natural).
But the switching back and forth may be troubling to some readers.
From an anthropological view this is an important document of a culture which would have otherwise been known only through artifacts and for me personally this idea changed the way that I look at artifacts in a museum or read about indigenous cultures in a book. As an American this book touched me because it is quintessentially about us as a country and our story. Ishi represents that change of culture we all made but even more so because he never changed place only cultures. The "old country" is still the same place for him as where he "emigrated" to.
The fact, for example, that even the relatively isolated Yahi had adopted some Spanish loan-words even BEFORE 1849 is a good indication that there was already pressure on peoples even far outside the zone of Spanish/Mexican 'rule' of Alta California.This is one area where a map (or perhaps a series of maps) would be useful.
This basic fact is too often ignored by planners--but people who had lived in the area for a long time usually knew it, and arranged their customs, technology, etc accordingly).So the Yahi would probably not have had a realistic concept of the numbers of people in the outside world.
In one illustration, on page 32, a Native American baby looks like a a clown.
This book, more so than the YA version, truly shows the maltreatment of Native Americans, who were completely outnumbered and at the mercy of the white men.
Too often, Native Americans are blamed for the fighting and for the white man's fears, all the easier to justify their forced displacement to reservations.In this remote and seemingly safe spot were gathered more than thirty Yahi including young children and babies, well supplied with food, even to fresh and dried meat.
This book was very interesting.
Written 1961.
Tells the story from white man and Indian side.
The story of the Indians was so sad.
Still being subjugated today.
Ishi’s story was unique as the last known living member of his tribe.
Amazing how he was able to adapt to a world he had no understanding of.
If you can find this book I’d recommend it.
I got it through the library.
It still has the old fashioned pocket with stamp card on the first page.
Last checked out by card in 1978.
The book itself was an interesting piece of history !
This was fantastically good. Drawing on source material from the late 1800s to 1910s, and written in the late 1950s, it could easily have fallen into the tropes of its day. However, the language used is surprisingly modern in tone (the title being drawn from a source quote), and Ishi is neither glorified nor stigmatized. The author manages to write about him objectively without making him an object of study. I highly recommend it.
A hard book to read, from the first half of the book detailing the steamrollering of European invasion killing off all of Ishi's kin, to his death from tuberculosis after less than 5 years.In between, this sympathetic account details Ishi's grace, generosity, intelligence, and humor, his making the best of a terrible situation and finding a home among those whose kind had killed all his tribe.
It is a sad story about the last Yana Indian, literally the of his tribe. His family and other tribal members were hunted and killed little by little, usually by private citizens. The author, married to Ishi's protector and friend gives a first hand account of his final years when he lived in San Francisco
Alright, I'm back from my small break. And a short review to boot. This book deals with a unique and interesting subject matter, but is as much a history book as it is about Ishi. It's also a very old book, so the dated writing shows. I'd like to read a more modern take on the story.
Despite this book being a product of its time, it still holds some interesting cultural memories of the native Yana tribe of northern California.
A beautifully astute and sensitively-written biography of Ishi, the last Yahi Indian found in Northern California.
fascinating story
This is probably, for so many reasons, the most heartbreaking book I've read in a long time.It was recommended to me by a psychiatric patient and I've a lot to say about the metaphors involved in that - but at another, more appropriate, time.It is one thing to know what early American "settlers" did to the Indians they encountered and I do my best not to judge their actions as "right" or "wrong" as it seems true that invading species killing off native species is a Darwinian fact for all life forms.It is quite another, however, to read about one man's struggle against the horrors inflicted upon him and his loved ones and his willingness to finally and gently embrace what was forced upon him.
A fascinating story with a sad ending. It's hard to imagine what this poor man went through, but still he persevered until the very end - making the best of a bad situation. He had the courage to carry on in spite of his world and all he knew and loved having been stolen from him. It is heartbreaking and tragic - yet comforting - to think that he might have gleaned some semblance of happiness and contentment near the end of his life. Perhaps this is just wishful thinking on my part, but only Ishi could say for sure.
It’s more complicated than that, of course, and Kroeber does justice to the period, to her sources, and to what is known about the tribe of which Ishi was a part during a transformational and ultimately fatal period in its history.
This is perhaps commendable, but for these and other reasons Kroeber's portrait of Ishi feels oddly incurious.It’s difficult to judge a book like this.
As a book, Ishi in Two World reads very like a documentary film, at times moving and interesting and at other times aloof.
But the advent of the white man destroyed the fragile ecological and social balance which had existed for centuries, as Yankees and Hispanics gradually encroached on Indian territory--scorning their customs as "savage." Ishi's tribe was hated and ultimately hunted into extinction.
He never revealed his true Indian name to any white man, but accepted the generic word, "Ishi" as his new name which simply means, Man. He emerges as a surprisingly gentle person, who adapted successfully to life in the modern world.
A sad testament of the human ability to adapt“I am one; you are others; this is in the inevitable nature of things.”Originally from 1961, this book from anthropologist Theodora Kroeber – mother of science fiction writer Ursula K.
The remaining members of the tribe hid for 44 years in the mountains avoiding any contact with the white man and died one by one, until only Ishi remained with his sister and his mother.The second part of the book shows Ishi learning about the modern world.
