https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141372.Brian_s_Winter
more survivals for me! this book wasn't as fun as the first one - the book seemed less immediate than hatchet. maybe because of the way it was presented; as a "what if", rather than a regular story, the stakes seem lower, even though it is exactly the same. it's more like a writer's exercise than a proper story. or maybe i am reading too many woodsy type books too closely together. i will pause now and get on with my summer of classix. teeny books, get thee behind me!
Until last month, I didn’t even realize that Hatchet had a sequel.
This follow-up “what if?” book was a lot more fun because Brian seemed so happy!
I think every kid should read these books, not only so they have a greater appreciation of what they have, but so they can see the beauty and harshness of nature.
Every child should be able to fantasize about surviving on their own, and these books add a touch of realism to that fantasy.
And honestly, it wouldn’t hurt adults to read or reread these books, either.
3.5 starsI enjoyed this book more than the first. As I read, I realized that most of what bugged me in Hatchet was Brian himself. His emotional outbursts and the way he thought about his parents made him seem a few years younger than thirteen, and it bothered me the whole time. But this book is all about survival. A problem arises, and Brian solves it. As long as you can get past the fact that this is a “what if” book (but really, all fiction is a big “what if” anyway), this is a great sequel to Hatchet.
This book is totally not good. Like it's bad. Real bad. If you like romantic comedies, then don't read it. It's about a man and then the man totally dies. If there was a way to give it a zero then I would. Nasty. What an ugly book. What a sorry excuse for a use of my time. Waste. Heartbreak. That's all this book will bring you.
Being Alone in the middle of nowhere isn’t very fun, but being cold and alone takes it to a whole other level; just ask Brian Robeson.“Brian’s Winter” is a continuation of Gary Paulsen’s book “Hatchet”.
There are many things that he will have to learn to do for himself, but the biggest of these is figuring out how to stay warm and how to find food when the temperatures dip well below 0°.
Can he figure out how to do these things before it is too late?I really loved this book because it went right where my mind went as I read the first book, “Hatchet”.
This time instead of setting the radio transmitter of Gary Paulsen writes about a diffrent ending to the book Hatchet.
Brian finds the survival kit and continues to hunt for small game and "fowl bird" as he calls it.
Then, soon Brian realizes that he must Make weapons and snow material if he wants to survive the winter.
This book soon goes into an exiteing twists and turns, but I am not going to give any spoilers away on what happens to him.
After this Book there is the following Sequalls Brians Return and Brians Hunt.
These are my favorite types of books.
"Brian's Winter" by Gary Paulsen picks up where the character Brian left off, had he not been rescued.
In his foreward, Paulsen said that he received "as many as 200 letters a day" from readers saying that they felt that Brian's story was not finished, that he was rescued before things got really tough.
Paulsen had tried to give his readers what they wanted, Brian's struggle to survive in the Canadian Winter, but instead, he had given them much of what they wanted less of; easy fixes and luck.
Hatchet was by far the better of the two and Brian's story should have left off there.
I read "Brian's Winter" by Gary Paulsen, I thought the book was good in some ways.
At the end of the book Brian meets a nice little trapper family that get him home.The setting of the book takes place in the woods during the winter months in modern times, which plays a major roll in the reading.
He remembers the life that he used to live back in the city which causes him to undergo some very drastic changes in his lifestyle.I feel that the author's purpose in writing this book it to try and tell people to get out of their comfort zones, because you never know what can happen to you or someone you love.
Brian's Winter.
Highly Recommended/read 1st two books Hatchet and The River/this is the final book in the seriesBrain's Winter is the 3rd book in the Hatchet series.
Gary Paulsen received feedback from his readers that they wanted to know what happened to Brian in book II.
Brian built a shelter, learned to make tools, hunt for animals and sew clothing from hide.
He also learned the rhythms of the seasons but had not yet experienced winter.
He realized however, these small animals would not sustain him throughout the winter-moose and deer were his next targets.
Highly Recommended
Personal Response: "Brian's Winter" was a great book from the series of "Hatchet".
Also this book was based on a series of events that happened in this timeline.Plot: Brian is lost in the woods and is surviving out in the wilderness alone as a survivor of a plane crash.
As winter approaches, Brian is hurrying to make up for lost time.
Another month by, Brian finds himself along tracks of something man-made.
Brian is the main character and is a teenage boy surviving in the wilderness alone after a plane crash.Setting: The story takes place in modern times in a secluded forest far from any cities.
Brian's Winter pretty much follows after the first book "Hatchet", and shares the story if Brian never got out of the Canadian forest before winter.
I though it was really cool how Gary would give us readers this story even when it wasn't even meant to happen with the ending of Hatchet.
Its really cool to just read what is going to happen next because you will never really expect it.
I give Brian"s Winter 5 stars because its an easy read and really cool to follow, and hey it gets you into the winter holiday spirit.
Ive learned about this book a lot. Now, when i hear someone has been stranded out in the wilderness, I always think about Brian. This book teaches you have to do a lot of things and speccially never give up and less when your life is on the line. I also liked that the book was very interesting, for example when Brian was attacked by a moose or how he learned to make snowshoes. I really like adventure stories and even more survival stories, and this book covers all of it. I think it was very inte
I´ve learned about this book a lot.
This book teaches you have to do a lot of things and speccially never give up and less when your life is on the line.
I also liked that the book was very interesting, for example when Brian was attacked by a moose or how he learned to make snowshoes.
I really like adventure stories and even more survival stories, and this book covers all of it.
I think it was very interesting how he learned to make his bow stronger so he can hunt easier.
This book teaches you a lot.
I thought the book was great after reading hatchet I thought the series was over but when I found out there was another book I bought it right away.I really liked this book because its about survival and being stranded and im really interested in those books.it also had alot of details and action.I would recommend this book to people who like action and the hatchet series.
Probably one of my favorite books.
He set up his camp under a rock by a small lake in Canada, where he only killed what he needed, and used the whole animal for tools and food.Plot:Brian's Hunt was about Brian Robeson who was a thirteen year old boy and survived in a wilderness with a winter that came fast.
He loved the outdoors more than the old life in the city and has a new knowledge and love of the wilderness.Characterization:Brian Robeson, changed by his first experience in Hatchet, can't let go of nature.
I read the book brians winter .I enjoyed reading this book because it taught me how hard it would be to survive during winter.
He gathering firewood had become a chore since he had burned all of his wood within a 100 yards Brian never recognized the signs that winter was coming.
Brian gathered firewood and began winterizing his shelter for winter.
He went out to hunt to kill a moose.
He was smart enough to hunt, gather, and most importantly survive.
Brians Winter is a lead off of the novel Hatchet by Gary Paulsen.
The plane crashed into the tree's and Brian ended up being trapped with no radio contact to the outside world.
He can tell that fall is coming soon because the air is stiffer and the lake freezes over at night.
The pants and coat are made from deer skin.
Brian learned in science that animals mark there territory to keep there ground from being over run by intruders.
Two weeks later the wolf comes back, smells the intruder, and marks his territory again.
Brian and the wolf come friends.
It teaches a lot about survival.Characterization- Brian Robeson and a small Native American family living in the bush are the only characters in the book.
The small Native American family are characters he meets at the end of the book, which help him to get rescued.
David Smallhorn is the name of the father of the family.Plot- Brian's Winter is about a thirteen year old boy named Brian Robeson who is desperately trying to survive.
Brian survives a plane crash and is trapped alone in the Canadian wilderness.
The family saves Brian.Setting- This book takes place in the harsh Canadian wilderness where the winters are below zero.
"Brian's Winter" is the third book in the series of “Brian’s Saga” by Gary Paulsen which include “Hatchet”, “The River”, “Brian’s Winter”, “Brian’s Return”, and the last one “Brian's Hunt”.This book doesn't say what year it takes place.
The reason for that is no matter what, if your in the middle of the woods all on your own you're going to need to learn how to live off the land.While reading this book I noticed the author uses Brian as a connection to the reader.
I would give this book a 5-star rating I thought it was very good and I enjoyed reading it.
It shows many scenarios that went very badly for Brian, such as the bear attack, that destroyed his shelter, and then the fact that he was so worried about the bear coming back that he didn't begin to think about preparing for the winter he was about to face.
He also made a killing lance in case anything attacked him again he would be able to defend himself with the new lance.I really enjoyed the creative side to this book, as Brian had to improvise many things to keep him alive, as well as to help him through the winter, and accommodate him.
In the book it is winter going into spring, he is going down river in a canoo to visit some friends that have a cabin and live alone.
At first noone was there, after a wile he starts to get concerned and looks around where he sees bear tracks.
He goes back to the camp and looks for his friends, he finds the bodys laying next to a tree dead.
He finally goes back to his camp with his dog.This is a good book for anyone that likes adventure and action.
Written by Gary Paulsen, this novel explores the story of Brian Robeson, a young teen who survives a horrific plane crash over the Canadian wilderness.
This books provides readers with an alternative story to the conclusion of the novel Hatchet, Gary Paulson's first novel in the Hatchet series.
In this alternative story, Brian must survive in his current location throughout the majority of the winter.
As well as geographic locations, Paulsen does a great job of explaining various characters throughout the novel.
Paulsen does a fantastic job of establishing Brian as a important and favorable character.
Overall, Brian's Winter is a fantastic and relaxing read.
The Plot- This is about Brian Robeson who is thirteen years old and is trying to survive in a wilderness with winter coming fast.
He learns throughout the winter several things like how to skin an animal, how to use a bow and arrow, and how to make a bow and arrow.
He learns how the mice live under the snow and he makes friends like Betty the skunk, the wolves, and David Smallhorn of the family who rescued him.The setting- Brian is stranded somewhere in the Canadian wilderness alone.
Brian gets a ride on one of the planes back home and meets his family and friends.Assessment:I felt that this was just like all the other books that Gary Paulsen has made.
The reason for that is because it has such a great plot and as well as the end and yet in the middle, the character Brian always does repetitive stuff.
Like through the middle all he did was literally hunted for clothes and food.
Finally the reason why I would recommend this to others is because in order to read this book, you would probably have to read the book that come before this.
Read by Malinda, Summer 2006:"The book that I read this week was Brian’s Winter by Gary Paulsen.
This book is about a 13 year old boy who is in a plain crash.
The plain crash does not happen in this book but you are given enough information to know that it happened.
He has survived all summer but it is now getting colder and winter is on its way.
He realizes that he has to make changes in his daily life if he is going to survive the winter.
This book is about how Brian must have survived if he had n teen rescued; and like Gary Paulsen states in the summary: “What if Brian had been left to confront his deadliest enemy-winter?” Although I disliked the book, I must admit that the author (Gary Paulsen) does a great job of emphasizing the fat tat you must never give up in this cracking read that shows how Brian is set to survive winter by learning new things as if winter would be a different world.
The climax is probably when Brian hunts the moose, but after that e is just all set for winter and the thrill f the book does not go any higher since Brian is already ready for any danger and mostly sits around and does nothing.
Brian has been stuck in the woods for a whole summer due to his plane crashing on the way to his fathers house.
This book tells the story of what could have happened to Brian during the winter if he wouldn't have been rescued when the summer ended.
One thing I did not like about the book was how quickly it ended, it didn't go through the whole winter.
If I were to suggest this book to a group of people I would suggest it to anyone who wants to learn more about the outdoors and who is interested in hunting and survival.
Brian's Winter was a great book!
In this book, Brian is still stuck in the Wilderness after his tragic plane crash back during the summer.
He needs to change his entire point of view on his situation and prepare for winter or he will have no chance.
This book really immerses the reader in it.
Brian is a character most readers will be able to relate to.
Before his plane crash, he had never skinned an animal or cleaned a fish.
The character progression of Brian is incredible and very interesting as well.
The book ends with a note that I, learn wilderness survival through trial and error, probably would not have survived the upcoming harsh winter.
I read Brian's Winter by Gary Paulsen, which is part of a series.
In my opinion, the book has many genres such as realistic fiction, also adventure Gary Paulsen says that many readers wrote to him, complaining about the deus ex machina ending.
In response, Paulsen wrote Brian's Winter, which explores what would have happened if Brian had not activated the transmitter.
Brian also learned that he should "always pay attention to what's happening around him."
Brians Winter is an ok book.
He doesn't really do very much in this book other than hunt and get rescued.
I don't like it taking place in winter because he can't hunt anymore because all of the animals would be hibernating for the winter.
After surviving in the woods for months on his own, he is now surviving fairly easily.
He is still in the Canadian woods.
It is the end of fall and goes into the middle of winter so he needs to hunt different animals.
I would recommend this book more to boys who like realistic fiction then girls.
