https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3120865-barn-burning
"Εξ όνυχος τον λέοντα" έλεγαν οι παλιότεροι. Το απόφθεγμα ισχύει απόλυτα για το συγκεκριμένο διήγημα του Φώκνερ, το οποίο εμπεριέχει σε μικρογραφία τα στοιχεία εκείνα που τον καθιστούν ανυπέρβλητο συγγραφέα. Αρκεί.
"Barn Burning" doesn't have quite the shocking impact that "A Rose for Emily" does, but it is a profound and moving story of an impressionable young boy living in the South during the post-Civil War period.
Colonel Sartoris was a Civil War hero and a symbol for truth and justice.
The family does leave, but they carry their troubles along with them, particularly inside of Abner Snopes' vindictive, jealous heart.
Ξεκίνησα την πρώτη μου επαφή με τον Ουίλλιαμ Φώκνερ μέσω αυτού του διηγήματος.
Η γραφή του είναι αδιαμφισβήτητα πολύπλοκη.
Βέβαια, είναι σχέση σεβασμού, εξάρτησης, φόβου αλλά κ εκβιασμού μεταξύ πατέρα και υιού.
Θα πρέπει να επιλέξει ανάμεσα στην υποταγή του στον πατέρα και στην επώδυνη χειραφέτηση.
Στο τέλος αιωρείται η πεποίθηση της ελευθερίας.
Επίσης, στο διήγημα διαφαίνονται οι ταξικές κ φυλετικές διακρίσεις, ο ρατσισμός που μολύνει τις ανθρώπινες σχέσεις, τα προβλήματα της καθημερινότητας των αγροτών κ οι συνθήκες διαβίωσής τους.
Η ιστορία δε με ενθουσίασε όμως, δεν μπορώ να αγνοήσω το ταλέντο κ τη δεξιότητα του Φώκνερ, εξού κ το 4/5.
Το δυνατό και πολύ καλογραμμένο αυτό διήγημα αποτελεί την πρώτη μου επαφή με το έργο του Γουίλιαμ Φόκνερ.
Εδώ και αρκετά χρόνια έχω κάμποσα βιβλία του στη συλλογή μου, όμως πάντα κάτι με άφηνε σε απόσταση από αυτόν.
Όμως η ολοκαίνουργια έκδοση της Κίχλης μου φάνηκε σαν μια καλή ευκαιρία να γνωρίσω επιτέλους και αυτόν τον μεγάλο συγγραφέα.
Η γραφή είναι πραγματικά πολύ καλή και οξυδερκής, αρκετά ιδιαίτερη αλλά συνάμα εύληπτη.
Τέλος, η όλη έκδοση της Κίχλης είναι εξαιρετική, με προσεγμένη μετάφραση, ένα πολύ καλό επίμετρο, χρήσιμες σημειώσεις και χρονολόγιο του συγγραφέα.
"Barn Burning" is a short story that is a prequel to William Faulkner's Snopes trilogy. It shows the conflict between the father and son, and the inequity between classes. It's a story to be read more than once for its many layers of meaning. 3.5 stars.
Where Rose was very haunting, and lyrical, and slightly but beautifully macabre, Barn Burning was crass, and raw, and gritty, and exposed, and while those are all things I love in my stories, I just feel like there was an overdose of it here.I have heard many many things about Faulkner's overabundant use of detail and description and since A Rose for Emily is the only thing I had thus far read of his, I had a hard time understanding that particular representation of him.
So what happens is, of course, since Old Bill has ambled his way into the canon- you can't really talk about truly Great Writers in America in the 20th Century without mentioning him, let alone giving him a plumb position as chronicler, bard and seer- that means that a fairly respectable High School English class has got to offer him, a la carte if you will, as an example of foreshadowing or symbolism or what-you-will...
Not my favorite - but fuck, Faulkner, I would have liked a drink with you.[3.5 stars for Faulkner being, well, Faulkner.]
3,5 starsI feel like this short story has so many layers to uncover and while the story itself seems simple and straightforward the deeper meanings make it very interesting!
Read it for class, because I had too!
I like Faulkner's style, mostly.Faulkner is a great maximalist, and he writes wonderfully. Except, there were too many long sentences which make one loses the meaning of what one is reading. However, this style worked very well with the last paragraphs of this story. I understand why this is a highly-praised classic; the themes it reflects are really important.
A very nice story, in just a few pages you are immersed as a reader in a family complex relationship between father and son, which is highlighted by the son's point of view inner phychology and thoughts.
anyone who actually understands this short story is braver than any us marine
His father is a horrible man, and the story is of Sarty's struggle with his loyalty to his father.
And as he starts to cope with his feelings, wanting to protect his father as well as set him right, the battle is huge.The truth is, I just can't get over the ending of this story.
(view spoiler)[Instead of simply turning his father in, at the end, his father has most likely been killed, and Sarty has run away from home and is alone in the wilderness, panicked.
It came to me like most things related to Faulkner do, by chance, when I decided to attend an American Literature class last minute.
None the less, his family endures him, but his son Sarty cannot understand why his father has such an issue with authority.
The last straw for Sarty comes when his father plots to burn down the new landlord's house, and Sarty just cannot stand by and watch his family become uprooted and starved yet again.
So he goes to de Spain (the landlord) in hopes of thwarting any attempts to burn the house down.
This is about a boy who is growing up, wanting to find himself.
He has a racist father, who is the alpha male in every situation and is doing things that this boy is not ok with.
He has always followed along because its his family, but throughout the story, he begins to develop his own moral code.I liked this short story.
It was a little dragged out for me, but was still a way better short story than some I have read this semester.
It teaches some morals and makes people ask themselves what they would do in that situation.
I'd suggest this short story.
Like many Faulkner novels and stories, this short story focuses on the differences in class in the post-civil war south. This book shows the struggle a young man deals with as he tries to choose between doing what's right and remaining loyal to his family. It shows how the very poor can be turned against the very rich as well as the impact an abusive father can have on an entire family.
ACTUAL RATING: 2.5 STARS
3.5 stars.This is definitely confusing at times, but overall it's a good read.
Sarty :( my heart is broken
Barn Burning, It allows one to witness, the forces of a no win dilemma- what an emotional roller coaster ride, Faulkner lives on because his writings always, are simply played out with beautifully written scenes, plots that could have different outcomes," if only"...It allows the reader to take a stab at what is at play and perhaps come to their own conclusion of what "right or wrong" is.
It always seems to me that Faulkner wanted to demonstrate to the world why people who appeared to understand right from wrong, in his Southern home, often did not live up to what they may actually have believed.
Ein schwieriges Buch, vorallem, wenn man eher ein Alltagsenglisch spricht. Faulkner wechselt häufig die Erzählperspektive. Das Nachwort hilft sehr beim Verständnis des Buches und wie es ins Gesamtwerk des Autors und Nobelpreisträgers eingebettet ist. Die Geschichte macht Lust auf eines seiner umfangreicheren Bücher.
Strong 3.5
It takes several re-reads to understand what Faulkner is saying. He writes in his famous stream-of-consciousness that is both intoxicating and hard to follow.
Part of the Sarty stories by Faulkner. Good
Sometimes it was hard to follow the dialogue and figure out who was speaking to whom. Anyway, cool short story about class differences and one crazy dad.
2.5 Stars. Didn’t feel strongly one way or the other
Messed up family. Wow. Kid really had guts for what he did.
Well ... that was something. That was highly confusing and painful to read. William Faulkner really likes describing his female characters as being bovine-like, which is great.
Non linear, class conflict, child's point of view, lives of poor white southerners.
