https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/326883.Their_Finest_Hour
The bit from the second volume that everyone quotes is "We will fight them on the beaches".
Well, I love that too, but my very favourite phrase is a less well-known one: "Tanks for Africa!" I know, it doesn't sound particularly inspiring.
Let me fill you in on the story.Due to Britain's criminally inept preparation (see the first volume), World War II has gotten off to a catastrophic start.
Eventually, this allowed the Allies to march as far as Tunisia, and then invade Southern Europe through Sicily and Italy.So, indeed, "We will fight them on the beaches" is very fine.
It is an absolute delight to share the history as Churchill experienced it. The writing is clear and compelling, revealing the man as much as the times. So far, I have read through the 1940 events. Much more to follow.
Europe was under Nazi-Fascist rule – and all were antagonistic and many expected Britain to make a deal with the Nazis.Churchill took the helm – after the British Parliament had had enough of Neville Chamberlain – at the very moment when Nazi tanks were entering Holland and Belgium en route to France.
The merchant fleet was being decimated in the Atlantic crossing and Britain could be slowly starved of both valuable food and munitions – that would make it harder to thwart an invasion.Churchill was never adverse to risk and had little tolerance for inertia.
This is the volume of the Second World War collection, in which Mr. Churchill really grabs the reader's attention.
While the first volume had to present the background and all of the events leading up to WWII, this book focuses on the hard-pressed Brits and their resilience in the face of seeming victory for the enemy.The Prime Minister's sardonic comments are sprinkled throughout, so you can laugh even when you want to cry.
The human tragedy is mixed with human hope and that wonderful British upper-lip-ness.
This narrative of Churchill's involvement shows just how much he contributed to the direction that the war took including suggestions for the design of such things as aerial mines and amphibious vehicles for landing tanks, countless telegrams to President Roosevelt to ask for help, his subtle and diplomatic handling of the Vichy Government and his understanding of battle strategy and tactics.Here we have a first-hand account of the fall of France, Operation Dynamo at Dunkirk, the Blitz, the thwarted German Operation Sea Lion, the Battle of Britain and also the important role played by the British scientific community (the so-called "Wizard War").
I've seen all those cool shots of tanks racing around in the desert and heard about Montgomery beating Rommel (the Desert Fox) and never had any clue why they were there in the first place.Italy, and then Germany, fought back and forth in North Africa for two years before the US got involved.I knew about the Battle of Britain, but I didn't know that England got the snot bombed out of them for seven straight months.
And I had only heard a few bare mentions of all of these things.This was a seriously cool book to learn about all this new stuff from a time in history I thought I understood.
We shall never surrender✌
The page numbers in the following review correspond to the hardbound copy of the book rather than the paperback pictured.The second volume in Churchill's memoirs concerning his period as prime minister, like the first in the series, is not as much to be read as pondered.
I find, however, that my limit is usually 30-40 pages per "sitting" and sometimes, less than that.That disclaimer aside, if I were to rate this book on reference materials alone, it would be a 4-5 star grade.
422).Most interesting to me in this volume were Churchill's efforts to use surplus vehicles, vessels, and artillery/armament in what he knew was a warfare transformed by technology.
In this, the second of his six-volume history of the war, we see Churchill as he comes to power in 1940.
Now that he is Prime Minister, Churchill can document his decisions and his feelings at the time.
The energy of the man was unbelievable; you quickly begin to understand how he was able to inspire and mobilize the nation.I am one who enjoys Churchill's clear and easy writing style.
It appears old-fashioned now but the man certainly mastered the English language in a way few historians have been able to match.
When it was clear that the Germans were going to overrun the remainder of the country, the Prime Minister, Paul Reynaud, was trying to move the government to France's possessions in North Africa, where the French flag would still fly and the hope of winning back their country could be kept alive; other countries now dominated by the Nazis had kept their national causes alive from overseas.
Regardless of American losses of life, Great Britain was in the position during the greater part of 1940-41 of fighting its deadly enemies with its recent allies defeated, and its World War I ally, America, standing on the sidelines.
This series of volumes detailing WW II is strictly for those who love Churchill and love great detail. This 2nd volume in the series covers the period from the start of the war through Churchill's appointment as prime minister in May 1940 to the end of 1940.Much of the book is reprints of Churchill's directives to his ministers on giving directions and asking for answers on progress. As I say, this is very detailed material. The book is about half history and half autobiography.
I bought Churchill's 6-volume history of the Second World War many years ago, but did not find the strength to begin reading it until some time later.
To say that the story of World War II is a gripping one, is to put it mildly.
Such is the effect of Churchill's writing.In the second volume "Their Finest Hour," Britain was holding the fort against Hitler alone.
The whys and wherefores of the actions of both Hitler and the German General Staff at that time, can be discussed until you are blue in the face.
This second volume of Churchill's history of the Second World War is written in his wonderful style, and quite detailed.
Churchill does a good job of describing what they knew at the time and what they found out later from captured Nazi records.
Much of the book seems to consist of long quotations of his own memoranda to others at the time, showing that he suggested successful strategies, argued against unsuccessful ones, and generally was in charge.
One of those books that every student of World War II should probably read--although he has been a source in many others.
Volume two of Churchill's history of WWII.
What an extraordinary work.
We are lucky to have such a mammoth document from one so close to all that happened during this period.
Now I haven't read many of these types of works (U.
And I know one has to take what is said with a little salt, but like I said, it is still fascinating.
And since it covers the period of the Battle of Britain, it is quite exciting even when you know what's going to happen.
I strongly recommend this series for anyone who has a history bent.
Churchill's first hand account of WW2. This volume covers the early war when England stood alone. France had fallen. The USA was not yet in. Nazi Germany had an agreement with the Soviet Union. Italy stood with Germany. Great read.
The Battle of Britain in 1940 is a harrowing portion of Their Finest Hour, no doubt contributing in a major way to the decision for the book's title.This fight between the German and English air forces is painted as the key to preventing Operation Sea Lion from materializing, as Hitler was reticent to launch a cross-channel invasion without adequate air support.
That's two!
Really enjoyed this one! Now on to biography of George Washington!
Too good to be true.
I have read almost every one of Churchill's books. Reading any of them is like going to a technicolor movie.
Where to begin to describe the rich experience of reading Their Finest Hour, volume two of Churchill's account of WWII!
To appreciate Churchill, the man, the statesman, and the leader.
WSC's grasp of world affairs, war, and interactions is simply stunning.2.
I wrote my book, "Churchill And Dunkirk: Finding Insight Inside Defeat" after gleaning so much leadership insight from his account.
Many people are fascinated by the Dunkirk account, leaders learn from it.3.
Read to appreciate Churchill's prayers (not what you think) and how he devoted time to assessing, thinking, and holding others accountable.5.
I have no doubts that opinion weaves into facts.
And so, even with the knowledge of the ultimate victory, there is communicated the uncertainty and the danger of a Nazi dominated Europe.
As a skeptic, I very much doubt the reality of something so ephemeral as a nation's spirit.
But I am persuaded that a political body such as the UK in the years following the Nazi invasion of Poland, was capable of being led one way or another.
As a book reviewer, I want to express how impressed I am at Churchill's skill of organizing material and then putting it together.
Delivers a stark appraisal of both British strengths and weaknesses in 1940 when Britain alone stood against Hitler, Italy and enigmatic foes Russia and Japan.Churchill's at his strongest when detailing his thoughts on how England's position was not as desperate as many thought - the ability to cross the Channel is highlighted - as is how long it took the Allies to overcome the same impediment until June of '44.Churchill is well aware of his place in history and some of the book can be seen as a historical case being made.
Failing that, Germany's use of the U-boat still managed to strangle England.
I just finished Volume II of Winston Churchill's six volume set on the Second World War. This one is entitled Their Finest Hour and deals with The Battle of Britain from many perspectives.
Great Primary Source material for AP teachers to design document based questions from.
It is an inspiring tale of how Britain, all alone, won the Battle of Britain.
It is amazing everything Churchill did to insure Britain's survival - not just military policies but all of his social and economic policies as well.
The first volume was better than the second. Churchill bogs down the reader with tons of official communications in this volume. But, he does a fantastic job of showing the heroism of the British people in their most difficult moment. The student of politics will likely appreciate all the nuances of diplomacy and politics described by Churchill. At any rate, Churchill writes with beautiful and clear prose and I look forward to the third volume, which will describe the Battle of the Atlantic and the year 1941.
Just fascinating.Love Winston's insider views, his soaring inspiration and his witty asides.He was a miraculous man..not without flaws but singular in his energy , scope of vision and commitment. He truly was born for that moment in history and the free world can thank him for it. The portion of the book "Alone" is quite moving as he chronicles the roughly 2 years that Britain was largely responsible for all the military resistance to Hitler. Imagine being bombed day and night and still striving to function as the point of liberty of the world's democracies.
Churchill is such a good writer. His words are indeed mightier than swords. I m also impressed by how much detailed war preparation he was involved. His trust of US, his optimism and hope, made all the difference in such a trying time. The part in French surrender almost read like a drama with so much suspense. I enjoyed this book.
The bad thing about Churchill being such a great writer is that when he writes an even better book, I can’t go higher than 5 stars. I continue to be shocked how much I actually don’t know about WWII. This is an exquisitely detailed, personal and deeply inspiring work of true leadership.
the second installment of Churchill's Second World War history. Covers 1940 and start of 1941, which includes the Battle of Britain, the threatened German invasion of Great Britain, the Battle of Egypt against Italy, and the start of the Battle of the Atlantic.
Truly insightful as to what was really going on at all levels - national character, personality, strategy... and much more. Churchill doesn't judge harshly but the truth shines through. Churchill himself goes up and up in my estimation and this is nothing to do with selling himself!
