https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6137154-fire
My head hurts from crying but other than that, so very good!! Loved this book!
The book is congested with: friends with benefits (incidentally an 17-year-old with a guy several years older than her whom she doesn't even like and knows he's sleeping with every other girl in the country), a whole society sleeping around and fathering illegitimate children all over the place, lots of uncontrolled lust, people and animals throwing themselves at Katsa Fire because she's on her period, rape (from all that uncontrolled lust), murder, that whole village plunder and destroy stuff, and the happy mention of her father saying that just because Katsa Fire is beautiful he would never act out on that lust because he loves her, so throw a little incest into the mix.
Watch my review here:https://youtu.be/RuBRXzb7Cgo
Plus, the nature of Fire's power is such that even the most climactic part of the novel comes off as an over-complicated non-event.I still think there is an improvement in Cashore's writing in terms of world-building.
Cashore writes young women craving full independence, undesiring of long-term partners and children.
I'll be hard-pressed to find even one healthy, committed relationship between a man and a woman in this book, a relationship where participants are equal partners in all decisions, including those concerning procreation.
It's a soap opera!And it's boring and would have benefited from some tightening up.I don't think I'll be reading Fire again.
Well, this was a pleasant surprise! I really enjoyed Graceling back in the day, but it had been a few years since I read that so I wasn't sure what to expect... I was BLOWN AWAY!I fell in love with the world with the monsters and politics, the characters, the romance - all of the relationships Fire has/develops in this book, actually.Fantastic. Itching for a re-read already.
They have a tremendous attraction for human beings, one of extreme passion which leads to murder, clutching, or attack, depending on the human, which is why Fire has led much of her life isolated in the house of her hated monster father, who died several years ago.
Her only friends are Archer and his father.And then everything goes pear-shaped.
Fire doesn't want to do it--she feels she must live her life in expiation for her father's existence and her own--but she must go to the capital to face the issue herself.
She has her own dark secrets, for someone who has lived in the country all her life.
There is this big jerk of a kid that is an animal or monster torturer in the beginning of the book.
I have mixed feelings about this book so I'm just going to go with I liked it but didn't love it.
So, I was thinking Archer was going to be my love interest in the book until.
3. He tells Fire he will quit sleeping around if she would just marry him.
I did like Fire though even with the few faults she had and I loved her horse, Small.
I like that these are stand alone books.
She made a bad monster, and a worst human.   Fire's world is full of monsters. They are similar to regular animals only more beautiful and dangerous than any other creature. Their pelts are mesmerizing - rich hues of midnight blues or forest greens or sunset oranges. That combined with their nearly psychic powers allow for monsters entrance lure their prey to their untimely deaths.  It's hard to wake from a nightmare when the nightmare is real.  Fire is one of those monsters but she's far more
She made a bad monster, and a worst human.
Fire's world is full of monsters.
That combined with their nearly psychic powers allow for monsters entrance lure their prey to their untimely deaths.
Her hair contains the most beautiful shades of reds, auburn and magenta, her beauty is beyond renowned and her mind can ensnare all but the strongest willed humans.
It has some elements from the first book (namely, the Big Bad evil Gracling - the one that controls minds through the sound of his voice) but this novel is set in a completely different country and set several decades before Graceling.
Disappointing.Having read and loved Graceling, I was greatly anticipating Fire and was unfortunately very let down.
Fire never gripped me, I never came to care about her, or even like her much.There are a lot of things about this book that bothered me.
All of that info went nowhere, it didn't add to the story and wasn't neccessary to the plot.
There wasn't any real tension to the book, nothing she was striving toward or away from, it all just sort of sits there, nothing really memorable about the whole story.
It seems like a lot of lead up to nothing.The whole plot with the archers coming after her and Leck kidnapping her fizzled.
the idea of mind control is awesome, and this book makes important moral points about its use, but i don't want to read YA philosophy books, i wanna read about girl power and magic and murderous justice!(although, for the teens, also good points about pregnancy - if you can't live with the results, take precautions.
but then, vengeance runs deep in me.and i don't need to fall in love with my characters - i am all about appreciating the antihero, but i have to be able, at least, to respect them and their path.
I thought I was discovering another great author knowing how to write great fantasy/adventure books.Kristin Cashore got on my nerves.She played with them.She played with me.She played with my emotions.Ok, first of all, we have a dark and intense prologue of 16 pages.
They'll meet and fall in love with each other because probably they won't be able to control each others minds and they'll be relieved.''Like hell.I don't even know if they finally met.
Maybe I'll finish this book if I ever feel like to but that could also never happen and I won't be sad.
One star seems harsh, truly, but goodreads describes that rating as, "Didn't like it." And that is an accurate description, for I simply didn't like the book.
Great.) It mollifies me at the amount of connections I can make between the two books, and this shows me that Cashore is limited in her ability to weave characters, because eventually they all start reflecting one another.I had expected for Fire, the most imporant persona in the book, to be a sort of Katsa, if not having immense strength in body, then in spirit.SHE.
I think it's because I sort of feel like other authors are my coworkers, all of us working and writing to make people fall in love with reading, so who am I to publicly say what is or isn't right?
I feel rather as though I fell as inexplicably and inextricably under this book's spell as its characters fall under Fire's.
I told myself it was out of devotion to the first book, but really, I couldn't have stopped myself.The writing is beautiful, and Fire herself is at the same time so damaged and SO strong, that I fell completely head over heels.
Sooo bad and Sooo boring!The only thing that I liked was the connection with the first book.
The story was basically about her boring life.
She spends more than half of the book having periods and it would be okay when we got somewhere with it, but it never added anything to the plot.
Most of the pages were irrelevant to the story and were just there to make the book bigger.
There's no background to make the characters believe that marriage is a bad thing but it's treated as something really bad that I just felt like the author wanted to push her beliefs over me.
Both books feature fairly obnoxious female main characters who a) possess some sort of strange supernatural gift that they really don't want and that stigmatizes them from the rest of society, b) are completely absorbed in thier own problems, c) have refused to marry, and d) have an incredibly convenient connection to the local royal family that they aren't particularly proud of.
Both books also feature really excellent male romantic interests who are way more engaging from start to finish than the main character and who also happen to be youngest princes who have great fighting skill but no interest in ruling.
Once filled with beauty and wealth, the Dells have fallen into ruin by the hands of her monster father, Cansrel and his human conduit, King Nax. Though both have been dead for several years, the kingdom remains in a vulnerable state, as neighboring kings are attempting to conquer the lands and steal the crown from young King Nash and his commander brother, Brigan.As a monster, Fire has the ability to read and control minds; however, due to her fear of becoming the monster her father was, she has spent years denying her power and has attempted to disguise who she is to protect both herself and those around her.
Me after reading this: This was so much better than Graceling. Is it even possible to love all the characters in a book. I laugh, cried, fell in love, fell out of love, hated, stop hating, became understanding and never wanted this wonderful read to end. I can't wait to receive my copy of Bitterblue tomorrow. As soon as I get it I'm going to start it.
Cashore’s books have always succeeded primarily because of their character work and introspection, not their plotting, but this book’s plot is so flimsy compared to the other two that I can’t forgive it.
The Dells have no gracelings, but plenty of colorful monsters.
Cashore’s worldbuilding is incredible, with complex politics and an interesting narrative around discrimination and sexism.
The political drama here, unfortunately, gets a bit boring in places.
She’s just as wonderfully complex as the other two heroines.
Considering the strong impact of character work on Cashore’s books, my lack of connection to Fire really hampered my enjoyment of this book.
Update (August 2017): Oh y'all.
I never updated this with my latest collection pictures.
ya girl managed to find ARCs of Graceling, Fire, Bitterblue, Jane, Unlimited (purple), Jane, Unlimited (white)...
Plus the Catalan version of Graceling.
D:********It has been YEARS since I read this book.
I read it back in 2009 (or maybe early 2010?), before I was blogging, when I was a wee little teenager.
I'm now a blogger/reviewer, and I've been trying to track down the ARCs for Cashore's books.
BEHOLD.*crying*I just need to find Graceling's ARC!
SIGH.I read this book four years ago (ish), before I was reviewing/blogging.
Still my all-time favorite book.
I adore it when writers have so fully fleshed out their fantastical worlds that they are able to build a novel around an entire previously unseen section in an entirely new era!This is the second installment in the Graceling series and, set a few decades before the events that occur in Graceling and sharing only one of the same characters, can almost be read as a standalone novel.Upon finishing Graceling I immediately begun this with less than an hour's break in between and was initially disappointed.
Fire has a similar talent, but because of her monster blood she can actually sense what people are thinking rather than simply order them around.
Her distinctive monster hair is all colors of red and orange, mesmerizing and enraging people in turns in this strange land so near and yet so far removed from the kingdoms we grew to know so well in Graceling.
Cashore is wonderful at world-building and shows off her talents to best advantage in this follow-up which will be one of the most-requested books of 2009.
I didn't know what the plot was for most of the book, but fortunately I adore Cashore's world and characters.
I have enjoyed in both Fire and Graceling how Cashore writes budding romance.
I like her lead heroines.
I like that she frequently mentions menstruation and includes disabilities.
Representation: One side character uses a wheelchair.
Fire sustains an injury that temporarily disables her hands.
There is a passing reference to her being bisexual.Potential triggers: Violence, death, murder, injury.
Honestly, I know I've overlooked some but I have a hard time keeping track with war stories like this.
The romance between Fire and Brigan is less developed than the one between Katsa and Po in GRACELING, but Kristin gives depth to all the characters, not simply the protagonist and her love interest, and I’d much rather have three-dimensionality in all my characters than in just the two main ones.It’s difficult to say this for sure right now, but if you had to read only one hard fantasy YA book this year, FIRE just might be the one.
2,5 starsStrong female lead my ass.  “I don't want to love you if you're only going to die.”     “Roen snorted. "You two have the strangest relationship in the Dells."Archer smiled slightly. "She won't consent to make it a marriage.""I can't imagine what's stopping her. I don't suppose you've considered being less munificent with your love?""Would you marry me, Fire, if I slept in no one's bed but yours?"He knew the answer to that, but it didn't hurt to remind him. "No, and I should find my bed
Ooookay miss double standards.I'm not saying that this isn't true since Archer loves to sleep with everyone (the whole fucking point of his character).Isn't it so amazing to show how he sleeps with two girls at the same time,while he's in love with Fire,and they both get pregnant?
“It made Fire so angry, the thought of such a medicine, a violence done to herself to stop her from creating anything like herself.
What was the purpose of a woman monster?”
“I'm a thousand years old,' Fire said, 'just like you.'"Hmm," Brigan said.
I know I've complained about them a lot (and if you followed my updates, so do you :D), but they're rather essential, both to the story itself as to Fire's place in the Graceling Realms series.
But you know whatbecause this series DESERVES it.I'm not going to deny that Fire has tedious and boring moments and reads like Graceling Realms: the telenovella in places, but I didn't mind.
Fire can't help that she's beautiful, but somehow, because she's seen as something desirable, people (read: mostly men) around her feel like they have a right to claim her.
"It's not reasonable to love people who are only going to die," she said.Nash thought about that for a moment, stroking Small's neck with great deliberation, as if the fate of the Dells depended on that smooth, careful movement."I have two responses to that," He said at last.
But Fire fears becoming the monster her father was, and she may let her doubts get in the way of everything — even true love.The romance aspect of the plot is significant, but progresses slowly and organically.
It was refreshing to see some strong female characters in not so typical settings.Additionally, Kristin Cashore is one of the few YA authors who actually mentioned a woman getting her period.
I also loved this new world full of monsters and beauty, and the many side characters we met along the way.
When people ask me what my favorite book is I tell them about Fire.
This is one of the books that made me love fantasy and reading in general.When Fire feels pain, I feel her pain.
When she feels happiness, I feel happy for her.
I absolutely love her.
I understand her motives, her reactions and I really cannot get enough of her.
The story is full of mystery, very complicated relationships, war, mind control, love, loss and so much more.
I basically feel all of the feels for this book and this trilogy.
Overall: 5 stars!!
10 stars!!!
All the stars!!!!!Recommendation: Isn't it obvious.
I approve.Briefly, for if you don't already know, in this story, our people live in a land where monsters are these sort of magical predators who crave blood and flesh, but are so beautiful and colorful that they mesmerize normal humans and animals just by their looks.
Fire is kind of like that, too, in that her personality is not what the stories told people to expect from that body.
2.5 stars So much hand-wringing and so little story. "Don't look at me, I'm too beautiful!" Ugh. Such a disappointment after GRACELING.
