https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221428.Madeline_and_the_Gypsies
Madeline and Pepito visit the travelling fayre that comes to town.
Unfortunately a storm cause the big wheel to be stopped, when the others are evacuated Madeline and Pepito are stranded in a car at the top.
When they get down they ask one of the gypsies if they can spend the night in their beautiful caravan they discover it's quite nice.
After spending the next day travelling to a new destination and learning some acrobatics they decide that life in the circus is more fun than school and stay on to perform there.
Madeline and Pepito find themselves left behind when Miss Clavel and her class visit the local carnival one day, and are taken in by the gypsies, who feed them strong drugs and incorporate them into their circus act.
As Miss Clavel agonizes about their fate, the two friends lead a carefree, adventure-filled life, one with few annoying chores or obligations - no brushing of teeth!
- have been rejected, the idea of Gypsies (Romani) as dirty, carefree vagrants who kidnap non-Rom children persists as an "entertaining" trope in our literature, with few questions asked.
What ho, Madeline, oh attender of that school in Paris that was covered in vines where lived twelve little girls in two straight lines…Right, yes, I’ll stop.Anyhow, in this particular installment of Madeline’s adventures, Madeline and her little schoolmates are invited by the son of the Spanish ambassador to attend a gypsy carnival and wouldn’t you know in all the fuss and rain that accompanied the departure of Miss Clavel and the little schoolgirls Madeline and Pepito were forgot at the top of the Ferris wheel!
This book felt a bit like a departure from the tone of Madeline and Madeline’s Rescue, but it was still quite funny and charming.In a slightly creepy turn of events, the Gypsy fortuneteller forsees that Miss Clavel is coming to Madeline’s rescue and sews both Madeline and Pepito into a lion costume.
We discover that Madeline and Pepito were in the Ferris Wheel when the gang left and now are lost and do not know how to get back home.The carnival people which includes an elderly gypsy, a ringmaster, and a few others accept Madeline and Pepito as new members and leave Paris.
If I read this book as a child, I would believe it's perfectly acceptable to get lost and not bother calling my parents to pick me up or call for help.
The circus, the bus station, and my particular favorite the gypsy mama staring into the crystal ball - all reveal the artist's giftedness.My only discomfort stemmed from the depiction of the Roma, or gypsy people.
Granted, the Roma do not kidnap Madeline and Pepito per say.
How funny is it that, upon receiving a postcard from Madeline and Pepito, a worried Ms. Clavel responds: "Thank heaven, the children are well!
And Ms. Clavel and the girls celebrate the return of Madeline and Pepito.
Ms. Clavel is growing alongside the girls: "Good night, little girls, thank the Lord you are well!
Madeline and Pepito are forgotten at the carnival; stuck at the top of the ferris wheel in a storm!A handful of carnies help the children down, and a gypsy doses them up with some strange brew.
The gypsy mama decides to pack up camp and take the kids with her.
Madeline and Pepito enjoy the perks of the gypsy lifestyle, skipping school, staying up late, and they even dabble in acrobatics.
I vividly remember the cover of this book. Look at those colors! The sky is green, which is totally disconcerting. I know I read this book--how could I have not read this book? I bet it's in every library I ever stepped foot in. But like so many of the books from my childhood (and there were probably hundreds), I don't remember the story all that well. But how could anyone go wrong with Madeline?
Mostly stars for the illustrations, in all honesty. And the childhood memories.
Whenever I see this book I need to read!
Racial stereotypes and slurs aside, it's a great book.
The color illustrations are interesting enough, and Bemelmans does identify the places he has included, but I've never been thrilled by the mostly yellow drawings that comprise most of the book.In this one, Madeline and the boy next door, Pepito, are left behind at a gypsy circus by poor Miss Clavel, who sweeps all the other girls into a cab to get home and out of the bad weather.
The Gypsy Mama give the kids a 'potent' drink and the circus moves away before they wake up.
When Miss Clavel comes to save them, Gypsy Mama hides them from her.
The kid with the Bad Hat, Pepito invites the girls to the Gypsy Circus.
After a night of fun everyone goes home and at bedtime they discover that Madeline is missing.
Madeline and Pepito are stuck on the ferris wheel at the circus.
They teach Pepito and Madeline tricks and have them perform in the circus.
One day they write home to Miss Calvel.
The Gypsy mom sees this in her crystal ball, so she disguises the kids as a lion in the circus.
They are sick of performing and are happy when Miss Calvel comes to take them home.
Madeline, Pepito and the other girls go to a carnival and get stuck on the Ferris wheel in a thunderstorm.
The gypsies who run the carnival take the children in and the end up going off with the gypsies who teach them grace and speed.
Who didn't think about running away to the circus in the 1950s?
It's refreshing to think of a time when kids thought about running away and joining up with Gypsies or Peter Pan. I loved it when the Gypsy mama sewed the children into the lion's costume and the lion frightened barnyard animals and a hunter ran away.
They go back to the circus where the other girls are sitting in the front row.
I remember reading this novel like all the Madeline novels as a child.
I guess I must have liked them more when I was a child because as I read this novel, I wasn't completely in love with it.
It is definitely dated with it's text as little Madeline decides to join up with the gypsies.
She does have a wonderful time and I guess perhaps that is part of everyone childhood, living a life different from your own.
We all know where Madeline belongs in the end , living amongst the "twelve little girls in two straight lines."
Not sure I had any idea what was happening in this story when I was a kid, although I remember liking the pictures. I always thought there was a real lion and a fake lion. Reading it now, I really don't like the changing rhythms and awkward rhymes. Good to have as part of a Madeline collection, but not a favorite.
Liked the illustrations, but not so much the story. Madeline and her friend are taken care of by the gypsies at the carnival, but also kidnapped. They are finally able to find Miss Clavel and are rescued. The rhyming is not as graceful as I would have liked it to be.
In the third book, a boy named Pepito was introduced. In the fourth one, we find him inviting the girls to a Gypsy carnival. The adventure soon began when he and Madeline were forgotten on the wheel.
My first Madeline book! I love rhyming books so this did not disappoint. A sweet story about adventure and the essence of home.
Good, exciting, rhyming, and spectacular. All little girls and their boyfriends would enjoy this book.
Cute
This Madeline book is so amusing! About Madeline and Pepito (the Spanish ambassador's son) joining the circus.
So enjoy this character as I read these books to my daughter. I cherish her facial expressions as she looks at the pictures & take in the words.
Alissa loves Madeline. The 12 girls in straight lines was a novelty for her. She really liked the lion costume too. I think she'd like to have one.
they completely changed this in the movie, that's why i can't relate much(well that and the fact that it's not the 60s anymore so a racial slur on the title it's a little off-putting)
It would trouble me to think that people are rating this book high because it's a continuation of a classic. I didn't find it that compelling.
Adventures with the gypsies and circus. Returning home is the best.
I love the story but the illustrations are a little messy. Beautiful colors but not a huge fan of drawings.
I've been delightedly rereading all the Madeline books, but this one was disappointingly unenjoyable due to blatant racism.
As an adult, the idea of the Gypsy just taking the girls seems frightening. When I was younger I thought it sounded like a fun adventure.
The little boy then takes Madeline to a Gypsy Carnival!
While Madeline and her new friend Pepito are at the carnival the weather turned bad and they become stuck on a ride.
A Gypsy mother takes them in, tucks them into bed and gave them very strong medicine.
Once they arrived where they were going it was a new day and once again the Gypsies set up their carnival.
The Gypsy mother then dressed little Madeline and Pepito up as lions to disguise them.
Even if the stories some times are similar, I always enjoy seeing what happens to Madeline.
