https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38379.Ring
2. I found it very refreshing and surprising that the main protagonist was a man, women/teenage girls are generally the most common and most popular for horror and both the movies featured a woman so I didn't expect it to be a man in the book.
(hide spoiler)] and I do not buy into that thing at the end with the whole (view spoiler)[ 'he's never been with a woman.' 'oh, so maybe he just lied about raping women.' that just came across like a cheap ploy to try and redeem an unredeemable character which didn't work for me.
Characters can communicate efficiently and quickly, dilemmas can be solved by simply googling the problem and shamelessly name dropping shiny gizmos is a great way of showing how hip and down-with-the-kids you are even if you're some aging hipster banging out your novel on a Smith-Corona.
You will be antiquated and outmoded and your words run the risk of never being converted into e-book because they will be sceptically examined by people who will LOL (yes, I hate text speak and other proto computer prattle but I use it here to illustrate the point cos its youth innit?) at your antiquarian references to VHS and word processors.
Many of his books, including this one, have been turned into movies and even video games.
He is a bit like Stephen King in his blend of fantasy, horror and mystery.,The basic story is that a journalist discovers that four young people -- two girls, two boys -- died separately and suddenly within a day for no good reason.
They turn into a Batman/Robin duo traveling around Japan trying to figure out who made this recording and why.
(Can’t do that anymore – no more Fuji film!) The Japanese culture seemed obsessed with cameras so this all fits together – why not telepathically project an entire video tape!
Hanging on the wall to my left as I walked inside was this movie poster:Remember, this would have been before the deluge of Asian horror (and the numerous American re-makes) found its way to Western audiences.
Turns out the Institute was screening a double feature that night of the original Japanese film version of this book called Ringu followed by its sequel.
No woman is treated very well in this novel, and I hated the way Asakawa speaks to his wife.While there is an indisputable vibe of disquiet, Suzuki's book is much more focused on communicating the details of the unraveling mystery, making it a plot-driven whodunit piece than a sensory onslaught ghost story.
One of the few times in my life I can legitimately say that the movie was better than the book.
Oh, and in case you're wondering, I like the American and Japanese versions equally.
As far as I'm concerned him being Ryuji the Rapist did nothing for the plot or character development.
I don't even care about what happened to him.I will be continuing with the series, though, because Ryuji the Rapist won't be in future books and I liked the way this one ended.
Final Judgment: If you want people to care, maybe don't make one of your main characters a rapist.
This review is for the hardcover edition. The books' dust wrapper is this plastic/acetate cover and the end flaps are impossible to read when removed from the book.
UN FINAL QUE TE ESTREMECE SIN DARTE HORROR, LA NATURALEZA DEL MIEDO Y DE SADAKO, TE DEJARÁN PENSANDO DURANTE MUCHOS DÍAS.RECOMEDNACIONES, PARA LEER EL ARO1.
Por el tema argumental, de que la humanidad siempre tiene el miedo como un instinto natural, y hará lo imposible con tal de salvarse del mal, no importando dañar a los demás.2.
Le puse un 9 de calificación, por que me pintaron esta historia como un libro de horror y no me dio miedo, sin embargo como novela de sugestión, y thriller psicologico, es estupenda.
I mean they are after all being hunted by a magical killing video tape energy virus!As I said, media might have gone overboard, but come the fuck on.It’s even worse, because Suzuki says through Asawaka and Ryuji: Yeah, science/technology is neat and all, but scientists can’t explain EVERYTHING, therefore they are useless!
After the rape Nagao marvels at her breasts and the sunrays touching her glistening pubic hairs (just…don’t ask me…seriously), and then he looks again at her vagina and sees two fully grown testicles.Yes, Sadako is intersex.Here comes the voice again, telling him to do dark things, so he throws her into the well, throws down some rocks and kills her that way.Now, the rape part is horrible, but I could have “lived” with it, if not for what happened right after Asakawa and Ryuji knew the truth.
the newest chinese interpretation of the title is 環界, void of circle, not "ring" or "bell" or whateversaid it's the 3rd chapter of the series, but no, just another remakethe film is not bad, the book is everlastingly outstanding
Well-written, eerie and disturbing, this mysterious book that inspired the 2002 film The Ring and the 2012 film Sinister was creative and original with hauntingly-vibrant imagery and memorable characters.
It is a truth universally acknowledged that there is no scarier horror book or movie than a book or a movie that comes from Japan. It chills one to the bones, makes you want to cry and curl under blankets, trembling in fear. Every single thing in this story is unsettling or creepy, even a little girl sleeping peacefully. Even someone's smile. Or a simple writing. Koji Suzuki infected me with terror.
Είναι το βιβλίο πάνω στο οποίο βασίστηκε η γιαπωνέζικη ταινία "Ring" που μετά γυρίστηκε και στην Αμερικάνικη εκδοχή της με τον τίτλο ""Σήμα κινδύνου ".
Είναι μια από τις ελάχιστες περιπτώσεις που πρώτα είδα την ταινία και μετά διάβασα το βιβλίο.
Αν και το μεγαλύτερο τμήμα της ταινίας δεν το θυμάμαι, η σκηνή που βγαίνει το κορίτσι από την τηλεόραση έχει μείνει ατόφια στη μνήμη μου- ναι, αυτή η ταινία είναι, με το κορίτσι με τις μαλλούρες που ξεπροβάλλει ήσυχα- ήσυχα από την τηλεόραση και εσύ τρομοκρατείσαι.
Στις σκηνές που χρειάζεται καταφέρνει να δημιουργήσει ένταση και πολύ ωραία ατμόσφαιρα και όσοι δεν έχετε δει την ταινία λογικά θα αγχωθείτε αρκετά!
Κατ'αρχην να πω πως το βιβλίο δεν έχει ουδεμία σχέση με την υπόθεση της ταινίας (τουλάχιστον της αμερικανικής) αλλά έχει την ίδια με κεντρική ιδέα.
Κασέτα που σε σκοτώνει σε 7 μέρες από την ώρα που την δεις, ένας τύπος που ψάχνει να βρει τη λύση του μυστηρίου της κασέτας κοκ.
Ένα αίσθημα γλυκιας νοσταλγίας με κατέκλυσε διαβάζοντας το, καθώς με πήγε πίσω στα εφηβικά μου χρόνια που είχα δει την εν λόγω ταινία αλλά και άλλες τέτοιες του είδους.
Έχω να πω πως οι Γιαπωνέζοι έχουν ένα τεράστιο ταλέντο στις ταινίες ( και απ'ότι φάνηκε και στα βιβλία) που αφορούν το μεταφυσικό.
The movies on whole are much more effective and the books, well this one at least, felt choppy and awkward.
I felt that the author maybe going for the opposite and in spite of himself propounded the Japanese repressed male stereotype and don't even get me started on the rape culture thing, which took on another meaning.
The movies both the Hollywood's and the original Japanese version wisely countered all the outdated stuff by making the protagonist a female.This left a bitter taste for many reasons, sadly I won't be continuing with this series and I really wanted to, but ultimately for me I don't think it's worth the effort.
Actual Rating 3.5 ★★★✰✰   “Think! There's nothing certain in our future! All we can hope for is a vague continuation. But in spite of that, you're going to keep on living. You can't give up on life just because it's vague. It's a question of possibilities...”    This one was one thrilling book with supernatural elements and it was also one of the fastest books I have ever read I flew through this in two sittings and I enjoyed it.It's the story of a journalist who tries to investigate the sudden
All we can hope for is a vague continuation.
You can't give up on life just because it's vague.
This one was one thrilling book with supernatural elements and it was also one of the fastest books I have ever read I flew through this in two sittings and I enjoyed it.It's the story of a journalist who tries to investigate the sudden death of 4 teenagers and one of them being his niece.
They appear to have been scared to death and this investigation takes him to one of the most thrilling paranormal, psychic journeys he didn't sign up for.
3.5 StarsI loved the premise, but I found myself comparing the book to the movie. As a horror story about a VHS tape, I just felt liked the story worked so much better on the screen. The author created a good sense of dread, yet I just never completely felt engaged in the narrative.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06g63fkDescription: British journalist Mitchell Hooper lives in Tokyo with his wife Toni.
When he begins investigating the mysterious deaths of four teenagers, he discovers a nightmarish secret.
They all died after watching the same video tape.When Mitchell watches the tape himself, he is cursed to die in seven days.
And so as the countdown to death begins, he must solve the riddle of the curse.Ring is Japanese horror at its best - a radio adaptation of the classic novel by Koji Suzuki, which inspired the infamous 1998 film.
So, I've seen all of the film versions and, honestly, I wasn't too terribly fond of any of them (except the second American film but that's a different story) so going into this book I wasn't sure it would be all that great.
Where the films strove to be horror films, this book felt more like a really, really good mystery than anything really horror-ish (at least, to me).
If the other books are anything like this one, this is sure to be one of my favorite series.
Now I can't wait to read more and discover just how amazing this whole series will turn out to be.
Το Ring είναι ένα εξαιρετικό ψυχολογικό θρίλερ, το οποίο ουδεμία σχέση έχει με τις αντίστοιχες ταινίες, παρά μόνο ότι λειτουργεί σαν κεντρική ιδέα για να χτιστεί μια ταινία τρόμου πάνω της.
Ωστόσο το ίδιο το βιβλίο δεν εμπεριέχει τρομακτικές σκηνές, αλλά φόβο και αγωνία που εντείνονται μετά από κάθε σελίδα που γυρνάς, μέχρι το τέλος, το οποίο όμως δεν είναι καθόλου λυτρωτικό.
Όσο κι αν το βιβλίο αποτελεί ένα θρίλερ, θέτει ερωτήματα στον αναγνώστη που αφορούν τον τρόπο ζωής του και το μέλλον του, επιδεικνύοντας τις συγγραφικές ικανότητες του Suzuki.
Not much else to say to it.While browsing through a list of Books by Japanese Authors, and passed the usual Murakami overload, I came across Ring and was pleased to find it was the actual source material for the film.
It's also different from the cinematic experience.My major issue with it were the characters and absolute lack of sense Suzuki chose to portray them as.
That matter is portrayed twice during this read and it pretty much made me sick.
I was fond of the mystery behind the mytical tape.My mother owns an hotel and I'm in all honesty considering leaving a copy of this book laying around somewhere.
Pueden encontrar esta y otras reseñas en mi blog: click aquí.Sentía curiosidad por esta novela debido a que la adaptación norteamericana en su momento me causó una buena impresión al presentar un fenómeno paranormal bastante interesante: una cinta de video que, luego de una semana, mataba a todo aquel que la había visto.
La premisa de la novela es la misma, pero el desarrollo es completamente diferente y, en mi opinión, mucho mejor que el de la película.La novela comienza cuando Asakawa, un periodista de un periódico local, decide investigar una serie de muertes muy curiosas: cuatro adolescentes murieron el mismo día y a la misma hora como consecuencia de un paro cardíaco.
โอโห โคตรสนุกเลย ไมไดอานนิยายทีอยากอานใหจบรวดเดียวมานานมากแลว เราเคยดูหนังเดอะ ริง มากอน แตจำพลอตไดคราวๆ พออานนิยายจริงๆ ถึงรูวาประเดนมันซับซอนมากกวาแคผีสางและความอาฆาตแคนเทานัน อีกอยาง ไมรูเรียกวาแปลดีไหมเพราะกไมไดเทียบกับตนฉบับ แตสำนวนแปลเปนสวนสำคัญทีชวยใหอานสนุกมากๆ เลย ดีงามๆ
โอ้โห โคตรสนุกเลย ไม่ได้อ่านนิยายที่อยากอ่านให้จบรวดเดียวมานานมากแล้ว เราเคยดูหนังเดอะ ริง มาก่อน แต่จำพล็อตได้คร่าวๆ พออ่านนิยายจริงๆ ถึงรู้ว่าประเด็นมันซับซ้อนมากกว่าแค่ผีสางและความอาฆาตแค้นเท่านั้น อีกอย่าง ไม่รู้เรียกว่าแปลดีไหมเพราะก็ไม่ได้เทียบกับต้นฉบับ แต่สำนวนแปลเป็นส่วนสำคัญที่ช่วยให้อ่านสนุกมากๆ เลย ดีงามๆ
While Asakawa of the novel also tries to save his family, there is something more powerful about the way the film presents this (and I say this as a father with a young daughter as well).
More than anything they add a reason to actually read the novel, as you get a different take on the person behind the curse.In terms of other points about the book, I have very little to offer.
It leaves you with this sense of dread and foreboding for the rest of the book.Frankly I did not sleep well.I enjoyed the story, the searching for a solution and all that we discover.
It is a Japanese story, we are immersed into Japanese culture but we all share the same fears etc.(I went kinda deep with this in my head) Which being a middle aged white lady brings me to my main issue with this book.
But I discovered that there are more books to this series.
I'm sure many of us have seen the movies for this book.
You're fammiliar with that too - you see the tape, you die in seven days.
(view spoiler)[The key was, in my opinion, the smartest idea of the whole book.
(hide spoiler)]You are treated to some deaths, a couple of tearful ideas, some magic and telekinesis and in the end, people with two sexes.
It blends right in with the whole watch-the-video-die-in-seven-days idea perfectly!
For a book like this, it could have been better.
I imagine you chose not to because you have something awesome for us in the next book, right?
Well, that was disappointing.Predictable, not especially well written (but that might be the translator's fault) and just not scary at all.And apparently being a rapist is just being "eccentric". Ok then.
This is an effective and intelligent chiller which builds up to an interesting moral question, but it’s not a book I particularly warmed to.A great deal of that is to do with the central character: a self-centred and unapproachable journalist.
There’s an incredible moral ambivalence about him, best illustrated by one of his friends confessing to raping a college student and the journalist having no problem with that information and seeing no need to go to the police.
The journalist, and then his professor friend, both watch it and then have seven days to try and save their lives.It’s well plotted and paced, although the translation is sometimes a little dodgy.
I did have high hopes for it, as the American film version is one of the few movies that really creeped me out.
I can freak myself out just thinking about it.) I found the book interesting, but not scary.
I'm curious about the Japanese version; would like to see it to compare it to this book and the American film.I will say, though, that I found the writing in this book to be very simplistic.
If I wasn't such a fan of the film, I don't think I'd care for the book very much.
I suppose this is one of the VERY rare times I liked the movie better.
[spoiler]A mysterious videotape warns that the viewer will die in one week unless a certain, unspecified act is performed.
Exactly one week after watching the tape, four teenagers die one after another of heart failure.
His investigation leads him from a metropolitan tokyo teeming with modern society's fears to a rural Japan--a mountain resort, a volcanic island, and a countryside clinic--haunted by the past.
His attempt to solve the tape's mystery before it's too late--for everyone--assumes an increasingly deadly urgency.
Ring is a chillingly told horror story, a masterfully suspenseful mystery, and post-modern trip.
[/spoiler]I felt like a bit of japan horror as i find Japanese horror and there demons terrifying!
From BBC Radio 4 - Drama:Listen.
You will be consumed by the lost.'British journalist Mitchell Hooper lives in Tokyo with his wife Toni.
When he begins investigating the mysterious deaths of four teenagers, he discovers a nightmarish secret.
They all died after watching the same video tape.When Mitchell watches the tape himself, he is cursed to die in seven days.
And so as the countdown to death begins, he must solve the riddle of the curse.Ring is Japanese horror at its best - a radio adaptation of the classic novel by Koji Suzuki, which inspired the infamous 1998 film.
