https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161218.Under_the_Roofs_of_Paris
I relished nearly every sentence of this bawdy handbook for the sexually unapologetic. If you finish it without wincing, you get a *handjob* for your reward. If you find it compulsively readable, the way I did, we ought to become friends.
I purchase a book and I never get around to reading it as it gets overtaken by other books.So I started to read this book as, when I purchased it in 2000, I had thought this was a book on erotica as I always loved the works by Anais Nin on this genre.Looking at the "blurb" I can see why I was mistaken:"In 1941, Henry Miller, the author of "Tropic of Cancer" - called "one of the great novels of our century" by Norman Mailer - was commissioned by a Los Angeles bookseller to write an erotic novel for a dollar a page.
My guess is this book only took me a few years to finish reading, but to my surprise I finally did it.
I have never before heard mention the many different tags he uses for the organs, cuts, and appendages involved in sexual acts, my favorite being his word "figlet".
I have viewed a few porn films in my time, but nothing compares to this novel and the way Miller had written it for pay.
Pretty graphic stuff, and the most well-written disgusting book I have yet read on the subject.
The women he portrays are all in, ready to sexually experiment with any and all, and never regretful of any developing circumstance.

Apparently he wrote this one chapter at a time and sold them to a pornographer who compiled them into a full book. What can I say? It's just porn porn porn. He seems to try to find the raunchiest, most scandalous scenarios to write about. My roommate kept egging me on telling me it was leading somewhere so I kept reading. Apparently he was dicking me around because the story didn't go anywhere and I felt like I'd wasted my time reading it. There's plenty of better stuff out there to spend your time reading.
For better or worse, this book formed the core of my sexuality. I read it when I was 16, I remember not being able to put it down. It made me tremble with excitement. I'm an open-minded reader and so it was not offensive. I wanted to reread this book for many years now. Frankly I don't understand many low ratings the book got here. Why on earth would you read a pornographic novel by an eccentric writer if you can't take a bit of gang-banging...
Ну вот мы и дожили — зарабатываем на хлеб порнографией, хотя у Миллера это роман скорее политический, чем порнографический. Чистый секс — это же всегда политика. Зато интересно почувствовать себя Хенри Миллером, который где-то после первой трети, как хорошо видно, страшно заебался писать в избранном жанре и разбавляет текст разной занимательной хренью.Но все недаром, да и привет из русской Маньчжурии здесь тоже имеется.
It is porn.
98 Say what you will for hidden sweets; I like things out in the open, all of it where you can get your hands on it when you want it, with no laces and straps and ties.Vol. I; Book III; p.
A man ought to have a photograph taken of himself when he's in shape like that, just to keep around and look at when he goes in to ask the boss for a raise in salary.Vol. I; Book III; pp.
They take you nowhere in an even more breathtaking manner.Vol. II; Book III; p.
такие книги имеет смысл читать, когда все описываемое для читателя -- не просто не теория, а изрядно пропыленная практика; в таком случае по мере движения по тексту достигается некий интересный -- и в той или иной мере поучительный -- кумулятивный эффект: добавляется тонкого различения, какие позывы ума-тела движут человеком (вообще и мной лично) по лестнице между звериным бессознательным и полным осознанием себя, вверх или вниз;3.
тот же кумулятивный эффект сообщает к концу книги такую невыносимо абсурдную комичность человеческой версии секса, что порнокнижка превращается в совершенно водевильный фарс.
Не имеет никакого смысла обращать на это внимание, на мой взгляд, -- про -измы западной цивилизации все всем ясно.
content of book summed up in a single sentence: I may be a baby fucker, but who the Hell cares ....
Snuggles is a damned fuckable baby.
there is no real plot to speak of, just page after page of women / girls / babies / midgets / satanists getting HONK HONKed in their dripping HONK HONKs. the word 'abricot-fendu' is thrown around liberally, in addition to synonyms 'fig' and 'figlet'.
i read this next to some orthodox jewish guy on train and felt v.
uncomfortableone thing that i really admire (?) is its sheer relentlessness.
Though many view this novel as obscene, I see it as a beautiful piece of art.
What's going on?"The use of rape and pedophilia is prevalent, Miller doesn't hide this, nor his thoughts of disgust and piqued interest.
He bears his character's soul and touches on taboo topics.This novel isn't for everyone.
There are violent scenes of rape, many levels of child prostitution and pedophilia--enough so that it makes the reader somewhat uncomfortable (somewhat in my case, anyway).
Having read Miller for years and worshiping every letter on the page has rid me of any shock.A superb read, not for the feint of heart, though.
Una "novela" en que el 90% es descripción pornográfica "clínica" (Boris Vian dixit), un 5% de "por qué las mujeres son tan putas, hasta las lesbianas y los 'sarasas' son putas" y el otro 5% divague sobre cuestiones políticas y culturales del París de entre guerras.Al principio me venía gustando, claro, por el shock y la novedad, pero realmente, 350 páginas del viejo in-out aburre.
En definitiva este librito es un gran ejemplo para ver cómo se escribía sobre sexo cuando la pornografía tenía potencial subversivo, esa época que empieza con D.H. Lawrence, los surrealistas, etc.
Desde 1968 y sobre todo, desde porntube que este libro ya no tiene razón de ser.
This is absolutely one of the most depraved and satirical book I have ever read. It almost approaches the level of debauchery achieved by the Marquis de Sade. The opening scene has to be one of the wildest things I have ever read, it is insane even for Miller. It's graphic nature notwithstanding, it has some extremely humorous moments and descriptions of events.
This was my first Henry Miller book and it was the refreshing sense of reality that made me read all he ever published. Not my favorite Miller book, but I love it for introducing me to a fantastic writer and for being one of the first books that taught me how to read between the lines.
This is one of those books I liked very much...but I'm not sure that I should admit that. It's a somewhat guilty pleasure. Henry Miller is one of my favorite authors, and this is not his best book, but it's arresting and memorable.
Dirtiest book I have read. Ever.
Language and content is explicit sex.Henry Millers’ Under the Roofs of Paris, if it is Henry Millers work was written to order at $1 per page to be pornography.
Some say it was written by Anaïs Nin. The two were lovers (the movie version: https://smile.amazon.com/Henry-June-V...) and she also wrote porn to order-https://smile.amazon.com/Little-Birds...However I have read Anais Nin, and this is not typical of her work.If you are going to read this book, it is very possible that within 5 pages you will read something sexual that will make you question your limits.
I knew Henry Miller was one of the greats of twentieth century American fiction so I thought I would give this one a go. I didn't realise it was completely smut! To be fair, it's extremely well written smut. But, my God, the sex scences (which is pretty much every scence - honestly!) make the ones in American Psycho look tame. Not really one for the train in the morning but a humorous and enjoyable read nonetheless.
Cand mi-a fost recomandata ca "roman erotic", nu asta am avut in minte. In timp ce o citeam nu puteam sa n-o compar cu Luni de fiere a lui Bruckner, care m-a dezgustat cam in aceeasi masura. Ce-i drept, am reusit s-o termin numai din ambitie, fiindca incerc sa ma lepad de obiceiul de a lasa carti neterminate.Nu o recomand persoanelor care sunt usor de impresionat sau scarbit. Temele precum incestul, pedofilia sau alte fetisuri se regasesc in aproape fiecare pagina.
This was PWP with a lot of taboo.I waited a long time for any kind of story line. Didn't happen.The constant sex got boring after a while. And repetitive.It was not badly written, but just not great either.I didn't like the incest, rape and other taboo tropes he used.
No teda zvládla jsem to, ale některé pasáže byly horší než bych čekala...
It is stated that Henry Miller was paid a dollar per page for this book, provided that he included some aspect pertaining to sex on every page.
For those whom have read this book (or others by said author), you know that he went far above and beyond that which was requested.
This book is not for the easily offended or the faint of heart; it paints a vivid picture of the most hedonistic acts that can still be considered extreme and mind numbing to this day.
Henry Miller has always been able to astonish and repulse readers with his cynical and deranged commentary, but truly captured the definition of depravity in this book.
At times I couldn't believe I was reading it, but yet I could not put it down.
It took me a very short time to read it.
I would have given it 5 stars, but I was really disappointed with the ending.
I understand why the main character runs away at the end and I probably would have done the same thing in the same circumstance, so maybe it was just that I had a secret desire for the book to continue on or maybe I expected the main character to do something else instead of running away.
i cannot believe this book was first published in 1941. seriously this is henry miller at his most extreme. i could not read this book in public because my face was permanently blushed. it is very entertaining, that is for sure. don't use this book to introduce yourself to henry miller...i recommend his more autobiographical work first. i loved the bawdy miller i met in his "tropics" and continue to love him today. good stuff.
this book gets really tedious and boring towards the middle, which is hard to believe since he's talking about double-timing midgets and banging mother-daughter teams. nevertheless, it gets old really quick. the beginning and end are interesting/good, the beginning in its ability to shock and the end is well-written. apparently, though, most of the book is ghost-written by Caresse Crosby, which might have something to do with why it's just mostly boring.
While Miller's wit and flow is apparent, this is not a good read. It was an endless "erotic" diatribe on the insatiable desire of women, and it drags on and on. Besides the horrific multi-page rape scene, the story was literally just an endless succession of silly and unrealistic sex scenes. While Miller is a great author, this isn't the book to waste time or money on. He wrote this for some rent money, and who can blame him? But in regards to oeuvre- a waste of time and paper.
My introduction to Henry Miller was an accidental find in a local bookstore. It was wonderful, vulgar, raunchy, and all the things I ever hoped to find in this eccentric writer. There is definitely no silk screen between you and this man in this novel. It remains to this day one of my most prized possessions.
Opus Pistorium is also more raunch than art. I guess that since people were buying his novels (which were mailed in plain brown wrappers)to use as a sexual turn on, he decided to write for the market??? However, unlike Under the Roofs of Paris, it does achieve artistic success--in my humble opinion.
Very very Provocative - took a long time to get through and parts were quite disturbing.
