https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89270.Brief_Lives
Challenged by its opening sentence in Ruth Scurr’s forward: “If you love English books, you will come, sooner or later, to Brief Lives: the vivid, sometimes scurrilous, collection of short biographies that John Aubrey wrote in the last decades of his long life, but failed to publish before his death in 1697” (p.
From its 37 selected biographies in this publication, the first three longest ones (in approximate pages) are on Thomas Hobbes (19.5), Francis Bacon (11.5), and John Milton (7) whereas the first three shortest ones (in lines) are on Robert Burton (5), John Colet (7), and John Cleveland (14).Mr Aubrey has since revealed some peculiar or notable anecdotes for each ‘Life’, in other words, something informal, sometime gossip-like to his readers.
Next, I found this paragraph on Richard Boyle amazingly and incredibly fascinating, something like what you’d expect to read in Ripley’s Believe It or Not!:Master Boyl, after Earle of Cork (who was then a Widdower) came one morning to waite on Sir Jeofry Fenton, at that time a great Officer of State in that Kingdome of Ireland, who being ingaged in business, and not knowing who it was who desired to speake with him, a while delayed him access; which time he spent pleasantly with his young Daughter in her Nurse's Arms.
Loads of touching and fascinating details about the daily lives of contemporary figures, and anecdotes that bring them to life, like looking through small windows of time into their private lives. Any page has something of interest in it. We learn that Raleigh, for example, 'took a pipe of tobacco a little before he went to the scaffold, which some formal persons were scandalised at', and that William Harvey, besides discovering the circulation of the blood, 'kept a pretty young wench to wait on him, which I guess he made use of for warmth-sake as King David did'.
It makes me want to learn more about Elizabethan England.
JA's character sketches were vivid but I'm not sure how accurate.
But that makes it better!
Kind of like the old story about how if a blooded dog mates with a mongrel all the blooded dog's future pups will be mutts.
He is pretty honest about showing the rapaciousness of Henry VIII's “reforms.” JA thinks the whole English Reformation was just a big looting.
It also explains why so many of his sketch subjects were so irreligious.
Fat Henry and his greedy reformers made it all seem like crap.
Aubrey's "Brief Lives" (along with "Le Grand Meaulnes") is the most idiosyncratic book of which I know.
Aubrey's approach to "biography" (which is so different as to truly require the scare quotes) permits him to include the vaguest suspicions, the most (to some) "irrelevant" details, and the strangest attributions of weird personal qualities.
Most of Aubrey's subjects live in and only in Aubrey's work, having otherwise lost all semblance of human interest since the 17th Century.
But 99.999% of us ARE "polloi" and it's really interesting when, as here in Aubrey, they (we) get some attention.
Aubrey's "Brief Lives" are available in their entirety and for free here: (Volume 1) http://archive.org/details/brieflives...
and (Volume 2) here: http://archive.org/details/brieflives....
If John Aubrey were alive today, I imagine it'd be fantasticly entertaining to have a conversation with him down at the local watering hole, be it coffeehouse, pub, or disreputable tavern.
You'll read about the naughty hijinks of Sir Walter Raleigh, the ill-timed fart that sent an earl into self-imposed exile for seven years, the very dumb death of a very smart man, and the unforgettable episode of the coffin liquor.
Yes, you read that correctly..
coffin liquor.P. S.
Don't miss Oliver Lawson Dick's sparkling biography of Aubrey in the edition published by David R.
John Aubrey was a real hoot.
Although abridged, I thoroughly enjoyed both Brian Cox's reading and Aubrey's descriptions of the people of his time. I'm glad that I started with the abridged because, despite my reasonable familiarity of the time I did not recognize many names. Perhaps with reading it I will associate them with characters from other books and simply did not recognize their spoken name.Regardless, the tales were humorous, engaging, and obviously interestingly intuitive by Aubrey. I need to know more about him.
I read this under duress for reasons I'd rather not get into. Honestly, it was a slog and a slow read. Though I did appreciate the humor of Aubrey's observations, and his unique take on what makes for a biographical sketch. Overall, I'm glad I read it. I appreciated Lawson Dick's biography of John Aubrey -- that helped me put it all into context. But if you are looking for a quick, easy read, this isn't it!
Another book that hooked me on history--another volume read in my grandfather's library, lost after his death, and hunted down for my own library. I suspect Terry Pratchett read this when very young, too.
He tells us also that William Harvey, who discovered the circulation of the blood, liked to meditate in the dark and had caves dug on his property just for this purpose.It goes wonderfully on and on.I don’t suppose that Aubrey’s Brief Lives is quite the sort of thing that Thoreau had in mind with his image of a rich old book like "an impassable swamp, ten feet deep in sphagnum." He may not have approved.
The coffin was of lead and layd in the wall about 2 foot ½ above the surface of the floore.Il buon J.R. Wilcock deve essercisi divertito parecchio:John Colet, dott.
Mr Wyld e Ralph Greatorex l’assaggiarono e aveva una specie di gusto insipido, qualcosa come un gusto ferrugginoso.
La bara era di piombo e incassata nel muro, circa a due piedi e mezzo sopra la superfìcie del pavimento.Questo era un modo strano, rarissimo, di conservare un corpo: forse era una salamoia, come per la carne, la cui salsedine i molti anni e il piombo avevano addolcito e resa insipida.
I admire this book, and the philosophy of Aubrey in writing it, but I admit I had trouble actually reading it.
I love the idea of brief lives --of potted biographies that get to the heart of a person via a few well-chosen anecdotes -- but this isn't really that.
There are good anecdotes, and also dishy asides, but it doesn't really cohere.
It reads like it was: a collection of miscellany that was never really finished, much less edited into shape.
That is, what I want is the anecdotes to layer on top of each other to produce a portrait.
This is a fascinating book of biographies by a friend of many of the most prominent Englishmen in the Seventeenth Century. If Aubrey did not know the individual, he spoke to friends who had been close to the subject. Filled with tasty morsels of information, it is a fairly quick read. The author was a tragic figure who hob-knobbed with the aristocracy and nobility and was an eye-witness to many of the pivotal events of this era. Encumbered by outrageous inherited debts, Aubrey survived by the largess of his powerful friends.
Wonderful book. A disjointed treasure trove of biography, rumour, scandal, gossip, and random meteorological information. If you are interested in the Elizabethan or Restoration periods, it is a must read.
been trying to read books that have been on my TBR shelf a while (and on my real bookshelves too) but my son is right i need to get back to something that will grab my imagination.
This one certainly lives up to its title of brief lives as Aubrey gives potted biographies of 17th century Personalities.
There is more information in many of the editors notes than in most of the Author's writing.
It has not helped by the fact that in each biography the editors have tried to modernise the english by putting in brackets after it modern translation or by the fact that Aubrey does a planned biography and then adds notes after it.
This was brief sketches in the lives of noble people in mostly the late 1500s and early 1600s. I had no idea who most of these people were so I didn't find much of it interesting at all. This is a great historical piece for people studying this period of time but for just about anyone else, not too interesting. The Appendix on antiquities was actually the most interesting part.
Anything containing 'he [Francis Bacon] had for his assitance a favourite of his, a St Alban's man, Mr Dobson... a very ingeniose person... but he spending his estate upon woemen, necessity forced his son Will Dobson to be the most excellent Painter that England hath yet bred' gets 5 stars.Gossipy snippets of a wide range of eminents, some even worse behaved than Papa Dobson. Great stuff.
This is a curious, but enjoyable read. A mass of potted biographies of significant (mostly English) and some not so significant individuals from the 16th and 17th centuries. Informal and gossipy and seemingly written as an early draft. Includes politicians, philosophers, scientists, playwrights, theologians etc.
Wonderfully mad.
Comic to tragic. Wonderful.
Edition irrelevant.2005-06-08
Well worth reading
