https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136171.Gandhi
Gandhi: The ObserverTo change something you love is the hardest.
My favourite description of Gandhiji’s uniqueness of vision comes from Naipaul.Naipaul says that Gandhi saw India like no other, he observed critically, with an impartial, almost colonial eye.
This is what Gandhi saw, and no one purely of India could have seen it.No Indian attitude escapes him, no Indian problem; he looks down to the roots of the static, decayed society.And the picture of India which comes out of his writings and exhortations over more than thirty years still holds today: this is the measure of his failure, and ours…
We studied the contributions of leaders like Gandhi, Nehru, Patel, Ambedkar, Lajpat Rai et al to our struggle for independence, but as we grow up and become enmeshed in the humdrum of our daily activities, these names begin to have diminishing relevance in our lives.So what brought me, a humble fiction reader, to pick up a 526 pager, non-fiction account of the life of M.K Gandhi, authored by a foreign journalist?
He spent considerable time in pre-independence India hobnobbing with prominent Indian leaders, not only Congressmen but also Muslim League leaders like Jinnah.
When the communal riots broke out between Hindus and Muslims after partition in 1947, Gandhi went to Calcutta where the situation was the worst.
My own personal issues prevented me from fully enjoying the book.More than anything else, I think my problems stem from Louis Fischer’s writing style, not from his subject matter.
(Fischer does realize that Jesus is a product of the past twenty centuries, doesn’t he?) I don’t begrudge Fischer his obvious admiration for a very great man, but his constant gushing became a little tedious.I also felt that the book would have been better titled simply Gandhi: His Message for the World.
So the message overwhelms Gandhi’s personal story (Gandhi would no doubt approve of that).
I read a biography of the "Gandhi of the Frontier" Badshah Khan two days ago, and bought this book last night and read it in its entirety today because the example of the Muslim Pashtun leader who created a non-violent uniformed army of 100,000 Pashtun and his love and respect for Gandhi touched me deeply.
There are three or five men whom I would call the greatest of the last century - Gandhi, Mandela and Churchill, plus perhaps Hitler and Stalin for their negative impact - and this book touches on the lives of four, only one of whom comes out a saint.
He ate meat as a young man.
And eventually his faith met the ultimate betrayal at the hands of a lone, deranged killer who felt only rage at Gandhi's expression of love for his "brothers", India's muslims.
The saint departed; humanity lowered its flag.Fischer examines Gandhi's love and does not agree with all that he finds, but explains its power with eloquence.
Men and women and children knew, or felt, that when Gandhi fell by the assassin’s three bullets the conscience of mankind had been left without a spokesman.
Even though this book deals very strongly with Gandhi’s philosophies - the history of his life being secondary, I still saw the underlying weakness of the man and his deep sense to overcome it, through his diet; through his fasting to make a point; through his celibacy.
This is the type of book that had a lot of potential.
What ruined the book for me was Fisher's writing style.
Throughout the entire book, Fisher idolizes Gandhi.
There is not one passage of criticism which is unusual considering that Gandhi can be a controversial figure.
His blatant worship of Gandhi made me highly critical of his telling of Gandhi.
Another thing that made me highly critical was his lack of citations.
Fisher reports that he spent a total of four weeks with Gandhi before his death.
His lack of citations about specific thoughts and events make me doubt him and his book.
Admittedly I have a very poor memory. I read books and then what seems like just minutes later most of the information which had so thoroughly engrossed me is erased from my mind. However, Louis Fischer's book and, more so, Gandhi's life so captivatingly described therein, contains scenes, sayings, concepts, and descriptions which I'm sure will stay with me forever:  “In the midst of death life persists, in the midst of untruth truth persists, in the midst of darkness light persists.”  “Nor coul

Gandhi was a doer and the method and means were everything.Compare Gandhi with the rise of communism (Lenin-Stalin) of the same time period and there is no doubt who and which approach is the more admirable and humane.
Marxism-Leninism led to the death of millions.The book describes many aspects of not just Gandhi’s struggle to make India independent but to free it of its vast internal problems – Hindu – Muslim conflict, to liberate untouchables.
Surrounding all this was Gandhi’s non-violent philosophy and his commitment to truth.My favourite quote in this book from Gandhi: “I am not interested in freeing India merely from the English yoke.
I am bent upon feeing India from any yoke whatsoever”.
I'm very interested in biography and and pretty anything in that category but when I started reading this book I knew it was a mistake.
Even the beginning of the book was boring.
I read the first 100 pages and didn't like it.
The reason I read that many pages was I was waiting for the book to get interesting but frankly it didn't.
Now from reading other book I know he had a very interesting life but for some reason this book made it extremely boring.
I don't like this book and I don't plan on reading it again.

I Overall I really enjoyed this book, but I wish it would have been a little more linear (or something). I am glad to understand Gandhi and his life and philosophy better. I'm interested to read another biography now, from a more er. . historical perspective.
Simply put: One of the best books I have ever read.

I started over once again from the beginning, convinced that reading this biography would be "good for me." This time, after about 200 pages, I couldn't get myself to read anything else until I finished.Gandhi has to be one of the most intriguing individuals to grace our planet.
A few thoughts that will stick with me for a while:* He was a Hindu, and one of the best examples of Christian behavior who ever lived.* He was quite open-minded and tolerant of others, even those who fought against him.
His failure then to deal with real critical issues and trends; such as: overpopulation, education, environment, resource depletion along with the consequences of exponential growth on the resultant human condition in his nation, and its economic longevity - indicates that he was not much more than another wordy lawyer predisposed to that so-called professions' primary mastery of snake-oil (sic) salesmanship.
In the end, the story will not end well for these countries, (includes Pakistan) again because of the failure of its leaders ,such as Gandhi to foresee this imminent imbalance and thereby further demonstrating the narrowness of their knowledge ,thinking and wisdom; for which future generations of Indians have and will sadly pay dearly for - in many terrible ways...

I had been planning to read about Gandhi for a very long time. Finally, I got hold of this book, which is written very well. However, the writer has compromised his status as a biographer in his bid to write about Gandhi. He has overlooked many events in Gandhi's life (esp. the paradoxical views of Gandhi in a lot of matters). Overall, the book is great as it makes you walk and talk with Gandhi in a virtual setting but lacks an incisive description of many aspects of Gandhi's life. Because of this reason, i have rated it low!
For a 620-page book on Indian politics this is remarkably readable. It's also pretty even-handed and gives a good idea of the man as well as the Mahatma. Fischer doesn't gloss over some of Gandhi's less appealing aspects (his relationships with his own sons, for example), but you can see why he inspired a devoted following. What mainly come through are his compassion and determination. I like the way Fischer handles the ending, too.
Not a great read.
"He always tried to exalt the individual; hence 'it has always been a mystery to me,' he wrote in his autobiography, 'how men can feel themselves honored by the humiliation of their fellow-beings.'"Bramacharya, 'fully and properly understood,' he wrote in 1924, 'means search after Brahma,' or God. It 'signifies control of all the senses at all times and all places in thought, word, and deed.' It includes yet transcends sexual restraint; it embraces restraint in diet, emotions, and speech.
This opens the door to totalitarianism and threatens democracy, for without an individual who is ready and able to defend himself against the inroads of power, freedom is doomed.""In the end Ghandi embraced Christ but rejected Christianity.
Jesus possessed a great force, the love force, but Christianity became disfigured when it went to the West.
He did much of what he did in deep love.As for Fischer's writing, I think I liked the beginning and ending of this more so because the narrative followed Gandhi's life quite descriptively and helpfully.
I like to read about the person on a more personal level.I learned from it to listen to one whose ideals and beliefs may be different than my own, whilst still disagreeing pleasantly.
It was a fascinating read for the subject, Gandhi, but the writing just felt slow halfway through.
There were conflicting lifestyles described for Gandhi's life.Growing up in rural India, getting educated in Law in England, practicing Law, coming back to India and leading the freedom movement.This book is based on reality and has real life incidents about Gandhi.The book discussed of how when Gandhi went to practice law in South Africa he faced discrimination that gave him strength to fight his shyness.This book will be enjoyed by all ages who are interested in History and like to read about leaders across the world.
A wonderful book on the personal life of Gandhi.
Perfect reading for the times we are in right now.
Gandhi gave up everything to save India for all people no matter what class or religion they were.
He taught people to be tolerant of others, to listen, and to learn.
Not turn a blind eye to the conditions around them.
Peace was his mantra.
Take a stand, but a peaceful one.
I happened to have read most of this book when I caught the movie about Gandhi on TV.
The movie followed close to the story in this book.
To be honest I was really bored reading it. It’s like history in class once again. But after finishing the book wait a minute he almost always died for the principles he is fighting for. He sacrificed himself so many times even though this might cost his life. His compassion is beyond. I’m still glad I’ve read his biography. He is fearless if it means it’s for the greater good. His life is deserved to be known.
An insightful read into the life of one of the most prominent figures of the 20th century and "the spokesman for the conscience of all mankind". Through superior moral example alone, Gandhi has led arguably the most well known and successful display of passive resistance in history. One can't help but to think there is a lot to be gleaned from the story of this extraordinary individual - and this book does not disappoint in confirming that.
I have read many books on Gandhi and I recommend this as a first start for people who don't know much about him and his life. There are certainly much larger and more detailed books which can be great, but very time consuming. This would be a good start, but not good for someone who knows a lot about him already in my opinion.
Surprisingly excellent. I was dubious about this book: I had to read it for a class. But I learned a lot, and my respect for Gandhi has grown. The book was obviously written by someone who really loved Gandhi, so very few negatives are portrayed. It also ended very suddenly -- I would have liked to read more about after his life, but the book ends at Gandhi's death.
The most comprehensive book I have come across on Mahatma Gandhi. The American journalist is astute in his assessment and written from a neutral standpoint, it is a must read for every critic of Gandhi.
It is a worthwhile read but very basic outline of his life and work. It is easy to read and keeps one interested. It is not very long.
