https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367367.Myth_Conceptions
Skeeve and Aazh were minding their own business in an inn they ended up owing as a result of the events of the first book.
After successfully passing the latter due to Aazh skillful coaching the duo realized they ended up with the job and a problem which would put such powerful magicians as Gandalf, Allanon, Dumbledore, Lady, Macros, and Rand al’Thor taken together in a very tight spot.
Let me remind you that Aazh had lost his magic powers and Skeeve was just a novice apprentice.
I cannot think of much to say here except that I laughed reading the book.
It’s not only magic, I found court drama, military tricks and lots of light jokes and humor, to emphasize, even lighten serious things.
Oh and the heroic lovely baby dragon.There is definitely a lot of fun to read how they manage to survive (the end was unexpected and just gripping) adding the funny dialogues.
To sum up, this book is a great fun to read though the plot is quite simple, but jokes, puns and characters help it to shine.
So if you’re looking for a quick fun read, you can definitely count on “Myth Conceptions”.
It delivered much the same as the first book.
Witty dialogue, action, magic, and likable characters.Skeeve is invited to try out for the position of court magician by his master Aahz, who claims it will be an easy job.
It's not of course, and before long Skeeve finds himself having to defend the whole kingdom against a massive invading army with only the few magical tricks he has mastered so far.
Lucky for him some familiar faces from the first book join his fight along with a few new friends.
Audio Note: Jeff Woodman again delivers a fantastic performance.
It's All Smoke and Mirrors27 February 2016 Having somewhat enjoyed the first book, when I was around my friend's house in Adelaide (and he was insisting on lending me as many books as possible, despite my protestations at having a huge TBR pile as it is) I decided to grab the next couple in the series just to see how well Asprin writes his sequels. Mind you, I tend to have a fairly low opinion of sequels, namely because Hollywood tends to have this really bad habit of completely ruining them (or
However, as is the case with life, this isn't the end of the story since a soldier from a nearby kingdom rocks up and tells Skeeve that the king would like to interview him for the position of court magician.
The problem is (as if that isn't a big enough problem) that the general, who's pretty upset that the chancellor wouldn't give him any money to hire some more troops (let alone finish the walls around the castle), doesn't want to give him any troops simply because the way he sees it, if the magician wins then the chancellor's going to see this as an excuse to disband the army because as everybody knows armies are really expensive to maintain.
This is the second book in the Myth Adventures series and, like the first book Another Fine Myth, I really enjoyed it.
In this second installment, Skeeve, an apprentice magician, and his teacher Aahz, a demon from another dimension summoned in the first book by Skeeve's dead master, along with their pet dragon and unicorn (the cast of characters should give you a good idea of the tone of the book) are recruited to stop a war.
Unfortunately, not everyone is happy about it and comedy and light-hearted adventuring follows.
While it makes some reference to previous events, and many of the characters have prior history with each other, it can be enjoyed well enough as a stand-alone.Set in another dimension where magic, or magik, as Asprin spells it here, (strictly of the incantational sort) operates, this is basically a lighthearted humorous fantasy romp, with no deep messages or symbolic themes.
This, of course, lands the two in hot water (their usual situation, apparently :-)) of a potentially lethal sort; but given the humorous tone of the book, the reader doesn't have any doubt that they'll be able to pull through.
Stvarno sam u nedoumici oko ocjenjivanja ove knjige. Uopće nije loša dapače dobra je ali nekako ne dopire do mene. Prva knjiga me uvukla u svoj svjet u zadnjij trećini a ova tek u zadnje dvi stranice. Ocjena 3.5/5
This second installment in the Myth series was a lot of fun. It was again full of witty dialogue and fun happenings. I liked how Skeeve developed and a characters and the way he dealt with the hard situation he was in. I loved the new additions to the team as well as the appearance of some characters from the first book. Looking forward to starting the next book.Rating 3.5 stars.
The first half of this book slowly sets our heroes up to be backed into what appears to be a no-win situation.
And then backs them into a corner for the inevitable sequel.Again more jokes I didn’t get the first time around.
I read this easily six years before experiencing Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, so the first time around, I was as lost as Aahz’s audience for his really bad pun related to it.
And yet, the author, by the way the joke is framed almost says to the audience: “I’m sorry this is a terrible pun.
These are decently fun books for children, and I once dated someone who still adored reading them as an adult, but it really bothers me when an author's vocabulary is so limited that they continually use words like "chortled" in place of "said" several times throughout the book. That's a once per book word, Robert. Pick another.
What a great way to deal with an invading army. Good banter.
Это как после одного кусочка торта "Наполеон", взять и съесть второй
The focus is less on the process of learning magic and more on Skeeve’s developing confidence and a bit of an expansion of our understanding of his world and the other worlds nearby.The story, once again, pits Skeeve and his magical trainer Aahz against seemingly impossble odds.
This unlikely force (plus Skeeve’s pet baby dragon Gleep) now has to use its wits to confront a vastly superior, but essentially un-magical, force.This episode was a bit heavier on puns and in-jokes, as Asprin perhaps was beginning to feel more comfortable with the fantasy-comedy genre.
His magical powers develop as well, but we begin to see him learning these on his own, without his earlier dependencies.
Skeeve’s dragon, Gleep plays an active role as well.Notes for the reader: In this story, this author takes the emotions of his characters seriously.
The characters don’t just race through the story full of action without emotion.
The author realized the importance of the reader connecting to the characters by giving us the emotions, and even the reasons behind those sometimes odd emotions for the situation.
While the first few times, it is a shock to the system to actually read of a character having an emotion, soon, it just becomes an enhancement to the story.
I liked this book even more than the first one.
I read this in less than a day and enjoyed it immensely.
I find Mr. Asprin's writing style a breath of fresh air.
I admire his comedic timing, the wit and speed of his dialogue, and the movement of his prose.
So much happens in so little (page-wise) time.
Something I aspire to do and to be one day.
I found myself unable to put the book down until I finished it.
That's a great sweet-spot to find as a writer, and I applaud Mr. Asprin's offering here.
It has been a while since I read this, but I still recall the Archer and Skeeve's conversation at the battle, where Skeeve built up the Archer's confidence. Then the Archer asked him, if you could do that, why do you need me? The answer was classic, and wonderful advice to and from a managerial type.
Забавата продължава , и този път е в по мащабен план. Този път от решенията на Скийв и компания зависи бъдещето на едно измерение! А компанията е от идиот надолу. Просто и безпретенциозно Асприн с лекота ти става любим автор....
3.5 stars. I'm enjoying this quirky series.
Silly fun with many moments of hilarity. Still good after all this time. :)
Gleep is my favorite character in this series and he has a fairly important scene in this book. Fun, light-hearted fantasy.
Asprin's Myth books are fun.
And they are funny.
They are charmingly predictable once you're familiar with the author, but that does not prevent them from being entertaining both to younger and older audiences.
I will comment that Skeeve's character development throughout the books is actually one of the more persuading illustrations of "young, arrogant boy becoming a great leader" that I've seen--Asprin does a good job introducing his characters as promising but flawed young people and nurturing their skills organically.
I would actually like to be friends with Skeeve, which I definitely can't say about all main characters in fantasy novels.
Probably a little better than the first book, maybe because the characters and world are developing. There's quite a clever story going on, interweaving the bizarre characters and the impossible situation, whilst keeping it light and humorous. I thought the chapter sub headings were great little teasers at times, encouraging you to resolve a little puzzle, whilst also being relevant to the chapter.
I usually find the second book in a series to be somewhat disappointing but this one is pretty solid. I've forgotten enough about the Myth series that rereading them makes it all seem new again but the absurdity of the resolution for the war is exactly what I love about this series by Robert Aspirin.
It starts kind of slow, but by the time Skeeve gets a chance to defeat the invading army (which inconveniently is not given a name), it is a fascinating fight in which, as is typical in a Robert Asprin book, not many people get hurt.
The plot and writing flow a bit better in this installation. There are less zingers, but I felt the first book tried a little too hard to be clever. That can take away from the novel. It's a funny, clever, short novel and definitely worth the time to read!
I remember this book being a quick fun read, but it hasn't aged all that well. What was new and quirky when this book first came out now feels tired and dated because it's been and overdone so many times since.
This book picks right back up with the same humor and witty banter the first one left us with. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, and I would highly recommend it if Another Fine Myth left you wanting more. It's an easy read, and you'll be laughing the whole adventure as Skeeve and Aahz find themselves in over their heads, again!
A good second installment in the series. Much of the same tone and humor as the first book. Maybe not quite enjoyable - the story seemed a bit more forced and there weren't really any new beats in terms of character development or plot. Still, a fun read.
Still a fun, charming, funny trip down memory lane for me. As a kid, though, I can say that I didn't get all the Julius Caesar references. But in my defense, I was probably only nine or ten at the time.
It's cute, idyllic and heartwarming, true, but that doesn't change the fact that it's almost completely devoid of any kind of literary quality. The plot makes no sense too. At least the first part was funny.
