https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106392.Enough_Rope
One of my favorites:INSCRIPTION FOR THE CEILING OF A BEDROOMDaily dawns another day;I must up, to ma
I picked up her beloved Dorothy Parker's poetry book "Enough Rope" and went page by page and read each poem aloud, so that she could hear them one last time.
I'll never forget that my mother's eyes were closed while I read to her and then the color returned to her face and I saw her smile.
one I can read and enjoy so that my mother's treasured book can sit proudly next to it, filled with all the memories of the women in my family who were inspired by words and thoughts of the dynamic Ms. Parker.
It goes like this:Razors pain you;Rivers are damp;Acids stain you;And drugs cause cramp.Guns aren't lawful;Nooses give;Gas smells awful;You might as well live.I dislike this poem.
It's like a shopping list of smug quips.In Parker’s defense, she was suicidal herself and this poem shouldn't be taken at face-value.
Some of the excuses given are transparently ludicrous – "acids stain you" – so the final line is maybe reverse psychology, or just a mockery of those who live for living's sake.
I call it Résignée:Lovers pain you;Jobs are a bore;Age will drain you;And love will drain you more;Money is fleeting;Youth passes by;Mistakes are self-repeating;So you might as well die.Take that, Dorothy.
*Hearthside*Chant for Dark Hours *Verse Reporting Late Arrival at a Conclusion*Inventory*News ItemSONG OF ONE OF THE GIRLS Here in my heart I am Helen; I'm Aspasia and Hero, at least. I'm Judith, and Jael, and Madame de Staël; I'm Salomé, moon of the East. Here in my soul I am Sappho; Lady Hamilton am I, as well. In me Récamier vies with Kitty O'Shea, With Dido, and Eve, and poor Nell. I'm of the glamorous ladies At whose beckoning history shook. But you are a man, and see only my pan, So I stay at home with a book.
When she was good, she was VERY very good...
Parker's poems about love and broken hearts are rendered in traditional meters with an airy, off-handed tone similiar to the one Edna St. Vincent Millay perfected in her work. I admire the speaker's persona: an acid-tongued chronicler of the vagaries of love and of wo/men. These poems are bright, biting, clever & exceedingly brittle.
Reading these wonderful poems does not disappoint, I enjoyed every one. She was born a hundred years too soon, I wish she was here now to straighten us out.
Parker intentionally satirizes the singsongy metered rhyme of lovestruck poets like Teasdale and Dickinson.
Here's one of her quick, flippant verses:By the time you swear you're his,Shivering and sighing,And he vows his passion isInfinite, undying -Lady, make a note of this:One of you is lying.next to a couple of her more "poetical" lines:You do not know how heavy a heart it isThat hangs about my neck- a clumsy stoneCut with a birth, a death, a bridal-day.Each time I love, I find it still my own,Who take it, now to that lad, now to this,Seeking to give the wretched thing away.All in all, a great collection.
Parker seems best known today for her wonderful epigrams and for having been a writer of some note in the first half of the twentieth century.
Perhaps Parker is a writer of her time that does not survive the journey into the twenty-first century well.A nice novelty is found in the back of the book.
Readers who enjoyed this book are invited to send it back to the publisher with a check for $2.25 in order to receive a copy of Parker’s hardcover poetry omnibus, which includes ENOUGH ROPE and some of the author’s other books of verse.
Nice, eh, if you liked ENOUGH ROPE?
It's a little like a manual for every generation's version of goth girls who have a sense of humor. What's not to love?

I love this little volume...and I normally don't like poetry! Parker is cynical, depressed, and heart-sore yet so real. She is occasionally trite and sarcastic but rarely dull. Sad, yet beautiful, poetry.
some men, some mencannot pass abookshop
Enough Rope opens with "Threnody," which means "lament." Her heart is "shattered," and she wants you to know that she's still alive and "every likely lad in town / gathers up the pieces." As Mrs. Parker writes it, though, it doesn't sound like a message of hope, of finding love after a disappointment, but the inevitable setup for another round of misery.Moving along, one is hard-pressed to find silver linings.
I had been excited about reading Dorothy Parker's poetry for years.
Her wit does show through in this collection, especially in her shorter poems.
Those poems were definitely entertaining, and showed that Parker was very clever.In this collection, Parker did not have the best control of pacing.
When I read poetry, I read each poem, then read it aloud to fully appreciate it (especially when there is rhyme involved.) While her rhyme is great, I felt like her pacing wasn't.
This is relatively simple poetry-- when I read it aloud I didn't make any new discoveries within it.
Loads of people before me have already talked about the author and how she was a pioneer ahead of her time, so let me just skip that part and go straight to my personal feelings about this book.Dorothy Parker was the poet of my teenage emo days.
Now, almost 10 years later, I read for the first time a book of poetry by her instead of the odd poem every once in a while.
It took me much longer than I expected to get through this thin book of poems.
I loved this book!
I chose it as an insight into my character, Dorothy Parker, for the musical I was in this past Summer, Thoroughly Modern Millie.
As I read the book, I came to the understanding that Dorothy Parker seemed to be a very stressed woman, on the brink of love and hate for life, men, and love.
The poems really spoke to me, some more than others, and I enjoyed her work quit thoroughly.
It was very informative and a good read!My Favorite Poem is Somebody's Song.
It's the lightest poem in her book.
I found this collection of poetry to be both enjoyable and disturbing.
I enjoyed Parker's wit; her light, easy, unpretentious style; the simple, musical meter of her verse, and even the little ironic endings to her poems that kept me laughing.
What was slightly disturbing to me, however, is that I was laughing at poems about suicide attempts, broken hearts, infidelity, depression, and death.
She treats these very serious topics with a callous, matter-of-fact style of comedy.
This juxtaposition is somewhat startling and irreverent.
I feel like I should have been shocked or appalled by her poetry, but mostly I was just captivated.
I'm certainly not a poetry expert. The poems in this collection were understandable and rhymed (how's that for a review). Most were about male/female relationships. My favorite was "condolences" which dealt instead with death. If I read more poetry some time I'll have something to compare this to besides the kids stuff we read to Cliff.
Much sadder than I had anticipated. There are some very clever gems in here. One, called "Men", I thought could just as easily be called "Women". Well said though either way. This contains "Resume" and some other old standbys. There were a lot on lost love. The second part was lighter than the first.
Poetry is not usually my bag, but I do love this short book of Dorothy Parker poems. She is so bitchy and biting and her poems are short!! I don't think it is in print anymore but I am sure all the poems can be found in her anthologies.
Enough Rope by Dorothy Parker (Boni and Liveright 1926)(811). Collected poems about men, women, and love gone wrong by the acid-tongued "Queen of the Algonquin Round Table." She was an old bitch, is what she was, but boy she wrote some funny poems! My rating: 7/10, finished 1980.
I enjoyed Dorothy Parker's wit very much. It's my first time reading this kind of poetry and tbh, I never was a poetry kind of person, but I'm currently experiencing some poetry work and it is going well so far.
Witty and sincere in equal measure. I'd only read Dorothy Parker's short stories before, and this is even better. Deliciously pithy.
I wanted to love this book, as I loved Sunset Gun and Mrs Parker's collected short stories. But alas, there were no hidden surprises; just a few well worn gems.
<3
One of my favorite lovers of all time gave me this book.Stupid Selfish Government.
Parker's inimitable wit is present in nearly every poem. She was a sharp talker and a beautifully talented writer. One of my favorites, to be sure.
I was surprised by how mesmerizing and beautiful a lot of these poems were. I am definitely a Dorothy Parker-fan after reading this ♥
dorothy parker is hilarious and dark. nobody does pithy better.
