https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30259.For_a_Few_Demons_More
I love giving 3 stars to books that I think deserve so, yet I feel that I'm underestimating them.
I happen to think that the author is her own worst enemy.Whenever a clash is about to occur, or when there's tension and drama and pathos in the present reading of a particular chapter, The author changes the scene and I am left with the feeling that nothing is resolved.
Some of them are drawn with hasty, economic lines, and I thought it was a shame that the author cannot do justice to all.
Finally I thought that the climax was fascinating, but not epic.
In fact, if the universe didn’t conspire AGAINST nature in order to surround her with a group of people able to adequately formulate, prepare and execute a plan, then she would have died coming out of the woman by trying to shove herself down the doctor’s throat because it seemed like a good idea at the time.So intriguing and wonderful is her support group, that they manage to carry this entire series and save Rachel so many times that I can only assume they’re actually robots operated by awesomified My Little Pony dolls.Probably the Master Chief My Little Pony operates Jenks.I had to stop this book when I reached the part in which Rachel is, yet again, about to go into an extremely dangerous situation, with no back up, and the most half-assed plan ever conceived on the face of this earth.I enjoy these books but if I keep reading, I’ll probably give myself severe blood-pressure problems.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads So I don't know if I'm using the "@!?#" button correctly, but in my head it's the "WTF?! Elephant." Has been since I first laid eyes on it. So if that's not what it's supposed to mean, now you know what it means to me:Elephant as illustration for WTF?! + @!?# (WTF?!) = WTF?! squared.And that is what is going on here. And it is fan-friggin'-tastic.Right. So Trent's getting married to Ellasbeth, and he wants Rachel to work security for the wedding.*blinks*I know what you'r
So Trent's getting married to Ellasbeth, and he wants Rachel to work security for the wedding.*blinks*I know what you're thinking.
but I better not have to wear an ugly dress."B/c Rachel isn't just going to be working security from the sidelines in a Quen-like capacity, oh no, she's doing it as one of Ellasbeth's BRIDESMAIDS.*giggle snorts*I hadn't really thought about it before, but a fellow fan of The Hollows commented on one of my status updates on Goodreads that this book is a real turning point for the series.
Al is in trouble with the demons, and he wants Rachel's help getting out of it.
Just too much Rachel/Ivy drama for me. I suffered through about 12 hours of that until the story got interesting. And, I'm not seeing any real character growth so I'm taking an extended, maybe permanent break. It was tiresome seeing Rachel make the same dumb mistakes over and over again through five books. On a brighter note, the narration is excellent.
“There were no more choices, no more options, no more clever ways out of a tough situation. And the rush, I realized in a brutal wash of despair, is a false god I’ve chased my entire life. One that cost me everything in the blind search for sensation. My entire existence amounted to nothing.” I have no idea how I found the courage to read this book until it's very end. This one was full of suspense and a constant stress and a feeling that someone wouldn't come out of this alive, and for once, I
This one was full of suspense and a constant stress and a feeling that someone wouldn't come out of this alive, and for once, I was right..
Of course, I have to praise other elements in this novel as well, like the fact that by each book of this series I read I'm struck by how much character development there is.
In a way, I'm reminded of those children books I've read where we grow up along with the characters.
Yes. But ultimately they'd all be affected the same if one of them died.Should I go back to the death comment?
I had grown to love this character.
ACLARACIÓN: Aunque esta reseña tiene marcado 'spoilers' después de cada ítem, no suelo spoilear nada. Es decir, no escribo nada que arruine la trama principal. (En caso de hacerlo, lo advierto previamente con una nueva marca de spoiler!! O sea, te encajo un spoiler adentro del spoiler, porque estoy muy jugada, y soy re heavy y re jodida.)Reseña para leer escuchando:  Cobrastyle (Y no me pregunten porqué, me pintó ese tema nomás.)  ¿De qué trata?  Rachel Morgan, polígama en potencia, que nunca se
(hide spoiler)]En caso de haberlo, ¿entorpece la trama?: (view spoiler)[ No. El amor de Rachel por ciertos personajes es lo que impulsa mucho de lo que sucede (o casi todo lo que sucede.) (hide spoiler)]
Me partió el corazón (view spoiler)[Skimmer salvando a Ivy. Me pareció increíble, muy bien lograda la desesperación, la descripción del llanto entremezclado con la decisión de una y la parálisis de los otros, esa inutilidad total del resto mientras Skimmer hacía lo que podía, ciega por salvar la vida de su gran amor (hide spoiler)]IM.PE.CA.BLE Así como también me pareció muy bien escrita la desesperación de la misma Rachel, triste, solitaria y final, dispuesta a terminar con todo.
Even though I knew I loved this series, it was a huge reminder just why I love it.Once again Rachel has gotten herself into a sticky situation.
I can't even begin to express how much I love this series.
I don't want to spoil anything but I will say this, these friends, their bond and love for one another, is what makes this series so fantastic.
There are so many good characters in this, great characters and of course even and some it's impossible not to hate with a fiery passion and I couldn't help but love Harrison for her ability to do that.
Currently working my way through the requisite hundred or so pages of relationship angsting that has to happen before the plot starts.
That may sound tedious, and frankly it is.
But it's Harrison's pattern, and once the plot kicks into gear it's a fantastic ride.
You just have to slog through that introductory angst first.***And now that I'm finished, I'm not sure what I think.
The story itself was pretty darned exciting, but I'm getting a little sick of Rachel, and most of the people around her.
The trio suspect Newt wants the Focus, the werewolf artifact that Rachel got stuck with in the previous book, which means now they have to guard the artifact that could cause a war from the werewolves, the vampires, and a demon.At the same time the powerful and dangerous Trent Kalamack is getting married and wants Rachel to play bodyguard.
After what happened in this book that’s not likely though.So Trent is getting married, Newt makes an appearance, and everyone is fighting for control of the focus, that alone is enough to make a good fifth installment.
What is up with authors killing the characters I love? Argh!
Why?!?! Nobody warned me about Kisten. This was a good edition to series but definitely left me sad.
And frankly - while I appreciate having an urban fantasy series that has some diversity in the sexuality of the protagonists and has the protagonist consider that there might be some fluidity in her own sexuality - the entire Rachel/Ivy thing is just...
Good things: the plot, and Rachel's battling with the issues of demons, using demon curses, and the such.
If the next books had nothing but Quen and Minias and Takata (I also want more Takata!), I'd be one happy camper.
There is something wrong with Rachel.
I'm starting to like this series less and less.
Why is she so stupidly slicing off her nose to spite herself?
She is also a selfish bitch who has too many loyal friends.
How many people is she going to take down with her?
While I did like reading to learn more about what is going on, I'm starting to really dislike this dumb bitch.
If there is one thing I can't abide in a series, is for the lead character to become quite this self centered while pretending she's doing it to help others.
Actual rating: 3 to 3.5 I-Expected-More stars.If I'm forced to pick a least favorite in the series thus far, it'd be this one. I'm not a fan of a few huge plot points in this one. I can't say more for fear of spoiling. Will I continue the series? Well...duh!!! This series and world and characters are still crack to me!!!
While it is one of the best in the series, likely the funniest, it is also the most tragic and depressing.For the characters, a reader gets plenty of page time with their favorites.
Trent gets plenty of time on the page, as well, but this book soured my impressions of him.
I was getting teary eyed a little the next day at work off and on, and that's nothing compared to actually reading sobering, surprising ending.I couldn't recommend the book higher if you're a series fan, but there's some emotional brutality waiting that angered me, depressed me, and turned the Hollows world upside down when I read it.
Rachel's got her hands full, and it doesn't help that her werewolf friend, David, is suspected of being a serial by the FIB.
I know that a Fistful of Charms was a favorite for many, but as a self-professed fan of Kisten and Trent, this book was much more interesting for me since they get more focus.
I really like that this series adds a dash of romance, but it doesn't overtake the book.
If there's one thing you can say about Harrison; you gotta admit the woman's got balls!This is so far my favorite Urban Fantasy series so I highly recommend reading this book.
messy with used Kleenex all over the sofa.
I don't know if I can ever forgive Kim Harrison.With the ending weighing on me so heavily, it's hard to look back to the rest of the book.
It has the power to create new werewolves from humans --and now everyone wants it.
And Rachel becomes everyone's target as they fight to get it.
He is.I always reread a series before a new installment comes out, but this is the book that made me dread re-reading the Hollows.
Not because it's a bad book.
Just have your Kleenex ready.
Yes, for some of us spoilers sell the book.I really enjoyed the early installments to the series which I read years ago.
After three books I just didn't see change on the horizon but I was wrong."For A Few Demons More" proved to me that Rachael's journey was not destined to be perpetual stupidity and self-destruction.
There is plenty in this book but it served a higher purpose, Rachael moved forward, finally.
Rachael loves him and he treats her good so I won't dwell on him.
I am looking forward to reading more about Ceri the elf Rachael rescued from Never Never.
This was Heart Pounding! I was cold and then hot, I was engulfed in this one. I was disappointed about Brett; I wanted him to become a part of the team. Sick about Kistin, still despise Ivy. I think Trent cares about her, but he will turn into a snake at a moment’s notice. I liked Manias and Big AL was funny. I laughed a lot in this one. This just might be my favorite one. Can't wait to see what is next.
I'd completely forgotten how upsetting this book is. I'm crying ugly tears and I don't like it. As usual, 5 stars.
A very good storyline, but some very confusing choices by Rachel and the other main characters. Major surprise for one of them.
Oh my god what is Harrison trying to do to me, I literally bawled my eyes out once finding out Kisten was dead, then she added the little short story at the end with Rachel and him being romantic and in love and I started crying all over again😭😭😭
Super sad ending but probably the best book in the series so far.
For me this installment in the series wasn't as good as the last 2 books, which were a 5 stars-rating and favs.
I never felt like I couldn't stop reading the book, only at the last 40 pages.
But with all the things I mentioned for why I didn't enjoy this book as much as the other I just can't give 4 stars to it.I still love this series and totally recommend it.
I think this series is the only one I have read without any romance in it and enjoyed.
Sadness. Great book but umph did it hit me right in the feels?!?!
He's not one of my fav characters but definitely one of the good ones!
Mainly with Ivy. I liked her before, I even felt sorry for her in previous books but now her tragedy comes across as a bit irritating and overdone sometimes.
Favorite New Character: Newt, the extremely powerful demon who strikes fear in the hearts of not just Ceri, but Al as well.
I like his character & his interactions with Rachel.
The boat scene with Kisten was romantic and hot at the same time with a sweetness that made my heart melt.The ending of this book 
It makes me wish that I could never leave it because once I start reading her books I feel lost and amazed, the real world forgotten and far away in my mind.
Each new volume beckons me to indulge in another fantastic adventure where the fights, jokes, puns, some wicked magic and charismatic characters hold me in a trance until the last page is devoured.The fifth book of the series has been the book of changes, so much happens from when we last saw Rachel, her solid ground composed of Jenks, Ivy, Kisten, Ceri, David, Glenn and few others is unraveling in all directions.
One particularly beautiful scene that will stay with me from this book, though, was Kisten's and Rachel's early birthday/bedroom & blood sharing scene.
And nothing dead will hurt you if I don’t.”I can't help being reminded of this song: (view spoiler)[ so Kisten, this one is for you, it reminds me of you and Rachel in bed together that final night.
He sacrificed himself for Rachel, how can Kim allow him to be gone forever.
(hide spoiler)]In short, if Kim Harrison doesn't fix this issue, someone with a brilliant literary talent, needs to write an alternate ending for Kisten, and I will accept THAT ending as canon!
I don't think this story could have been any better.
I knew, what was going to happen, with a character in this story.
I have known it, probably since the second book, when i decided to read some comments on the upcoming books.
I have known it, in the way that, that character has slowly being removed from the spotlight of this one's and the previous book plot.Knowing it, didn't make it easier...so i will join the vast number of readers, that will miss this character presence, in the Hollows world.I love everything about this series.
Honestly, the story, didn't need that continuous mess.
So good, loved rereading this book, I had forgotten which book Kisten dies in, and yeah, that was really sad, can't wait to get the conclusion soon! Now to read more!*First read August 4th 2013*This book started to break my heart. I mean, things were pretty good, and steady, and then they pretty much go to hell in a hand basket, and then Kistin? Yeah, broken heart, meet me.
