https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/645023.Castle_of_Wizardry
Garion gets a shock and Ce'Nedra gets a personality.
This is evident in the titles, 'Pawn of Prophecy', 'Queen of Sorcery' and so on.
He weaves a love for the game within this beautiful series in more ways than the titles.
The movement of the whole series begins to unfold just like a game of chess.
The first book was the game's opening, establishing Garion as a simple pawn moving inexorably towards the far side of the board.
The third book establishes the centre of the battle, the pivotal moment in a chess game where both sides have an equal chance of winning and losing.
And now, the fourth book, 'Castle of Wizardry' shows Garion's promotion from pawn to...
He never seems to catch on to what is happening in his own life and he ends up surprised by things that the not-necessarily-astute reader has seen coming since book one.
When reading Tolkien, I always appreciate the fact that he knew Middle Earth inside out, had created a complex history for it and designed authentic feeling languages for all of its peoples.
There isn’t that same feeling of depth to Edding’s world, but how many people would go to the extremes of world-building that Tolkien did?Even the main characters are a little wooden in the Belgariad, but a few are quite entertaining.
5 stars - Audiobook - if I don't hurry up their will be no more Murgo's to kill-Belgarion goes on a journey to meet up with the Child of Dark and Ce'nedra raises an army. I do so love the charaters of David Eddings books. Their hero's with some issues 😀🌸🌸
You have to wait until I've done number five, then I'm gonna review the lot as a set.Until then. Polgara still annoys me, and I do wish Garion would punch somebody
3.5 stars. Fourth installment of the Belgariad. Not quite as good as the previous entries but still a good, solid read. One final note: I listened to the audiobook narrated by Cameron Beierle and he did an excellent job with the series.
The characters are all there & are coming into their own, but otherwise there's not much to say. These books must be read in order & as a set of 5. I was happy that this book kept up the pace & I blew through it quickly. On to the final one.
Especially nobody complains that Pol has not raised the boy as anyone but a pot scrubber.The thing is: she could not have raised him differently as it becomes painfully clear she just needs him to fulfill a prophecy and cares no further for the boy.
Besides that the story is as so many fantasy stories the first book had been promising a good read, the second made you cringe in fear for future installments, the third sadly made you realize it would get worse and in the fourth it did.I can not get over my dislike for Aunt Pol and Ce'nedra and as these are mains I can not continue rading sadly.
After that, unfortunately, the book slows way down as Garion has to deal with Politics (tm) and come to terms with life as a king.About two-thirds of the way through, Garion secretly escapes from Riva with his "grandfather" Belgarath and everybody's favourite spy Silk (probably the most entertaining character in the series).
Aren't they clever?")With our main point-of-view character gone, the last 75 pages of the book are told from the perspective of Princess Ce'Nedra, Garion's betrothed.
There's a bit of a bright point at the end as Ce'Nedra -- helped by the usual cast of characters, who don't have anything better to do now that Garion's gone -- musters an army.
3.5 stars. Fourth installment of the Belgariad. Not quite as good as the previous entries but still a good, solid read. One final note: I listened to the audiobook narrated by Cameron Beierle and he did an excellent job with the series.
Eh, probably the least interesting in the series. I am not a fan of the way the Ce'Nedra is treated throughout this book, and Polgara is at her meanest, in my opinion.
This was an enjoyable continuation of the series. The armies of the west have begun to assemble to do battle with Mordor....er, wait, I got confused again. Armies are assembling though as we march towards the ultimate confrontation between Garion and Torak. If you've been enjoying the series so far, this book won't disappoint.
Garion is, as I've said in previous reviews, Inexcusably stupid, but Polgara keeps him that way on purpose.
She clearly cares for the boy, underneath it all, but she's spent so much time worrying about the prophesy that she's forgotten he's a real person who she's supposed to be raising.Chief among my nitpicks of little things in this book - wth is up with Silk's big tragic scene?
Oh no, we're all real sorry for you, you had to talk to an ugly lady, you poor thing, must be rough.
She's blind, so she doesn't even know she's ugly, so what is the problem, exactly?
He matures, especially once he realizes his role in the Prophecy that guided their journeys so far, and decides that he may be the only one who can do it.Ce’Nedra has also grown, especially once she realizes her title as an Imperial Princess means little among her companions.
Except for Garion, though she may have feelings for him, she still intends him to suffer.The two needed to mature, as the final book approaches; they need to step into larger than life roles.
The final book would still revolve around the triumvirate of Garion, Polgara and Belgarath, now joined by Ce’Nedra.This volume is thicker than the preceding books but you still end up wanting more.
This book has a lot of good thing happen in it that will unfortunately be balanced out somewhat by the price of war in the last book.
I find Ce'Nedra's dilemma interesting although I'm not in love with the idea that our destiny is decided before we are born, which seems to have been a theme that is really brought home in this chapter.Now the companions have rescued the orb and need to return it to Riva, where Garion will finally come into his birthright (which will surprise him and Ce'Nedra).
And the kings head to war with Ce'Nedra as the figurehead.
Man, Ce'Nedra is a delight to read. She's so Tsundere it hurts. She's the OG Tsundere. I love her so very much.And Silk. My cynical, sarcastic bb.Moar.
Really enjoyed it. Rocked through it in just a few days. On to the fifth and final book in the series.
3.5 Stars. Not as good as the previous books. But still a good read nonetheless. It almost felt like the book should have been broken up into two, there was a climax, and then everything slowed down for a long time. I do appreciate that some of the characters are filled out more. There also is a definite building up in the last 2/3ds of the book leading up to the last installment. I hope it ends well.
I don't' feel like writing a review I just want to get started on the next book.
It doesn't feel that rushed, but the significance of things died down a bit, perhaps it's because Garion is no longer really treated like a child at this point and he seems to have half a brain.
I guess we more or less accept the fact that Garion is a natural and move on at some point, which is kind of disappointing.
Eddings is good with his characters and they are really fleshed out, however I don't think he can really show any progression with them.
Castle of Wizardry left me a little short on all the information I would love to have at the moment, but I guess that's just because I'm a bit greedy here.The big culmination point that I was waiting for from the beginning of book one, Pawn of Prophecy, is here - Garion finally knows who he is, what he must do and he's got to get used to that idea really, really fast.
I liked that part of the book a lot, but after that I got a little bit confused.
Whilst I still really like Castle of Wizardry, I did miss the quest as it was the main plot in the first 3 books, however, it makes up for it with more politics and character growth.
Garion is more responsible in this book and has to learn how to deal with power and people with different opinions than him, and it is nice to see him change, but I do miss the farm boy a bit.
I still like Silk as after everything they have been through during the quest and at Riva he has never treated Garion any differently.
This has long been my favorite book in the series, because this is where a heap of the action lies, prophecy comes to fruition, and everything starts to coalesce.
One of my all time favorite quotes from this series comes from this book:“Relg's face was twisted into an agony.
His arms, however, cradled the ternfied slave woman protectively, almost gently, and even when they were free of the rock, he held her closely against him as if he intended to hold her thus forever.”No matter how many times I’ve read this series, this paragraph gets me every time and I shed a tear.
Reading this paragraph in all of its beauty makes me happy.Love this book.
David Eddings throws me for a spin with the ending of this book.But I get ahead of myself - In Castle of Wizardry Belgarion finally comes into his own - sort of.
I suppose it would have helped, also, to have the prophecy revealed at the start of each book so we could see the pieces coming together as well - but that isn't how it's to be, so we really don't know just how explicit it is.This book and The Magician's Gambit suffer a bit from "middle-child syndrome", all things said.
That said, I'm looking forward to seeing what the end brings and have thoroughly enjoyed a weekend completely absorbed in this world created by David Eddings.
I consumed the two five-book series in a few months, getting in trouble in school for reading when I should have been paying attention (I either didn't care or had already done the homework for whatever it was they were teaching while they were teaching how to do it).When complete, I read the whole series again in half the time.
I was a bit surprised by Ce'Nedra and her reaction to the crowning and subsequent betrothal.
She seems to be the only one that can't accept, with the possible exception of Garion and even he has begrudging given in.
I did love when Ce'Nedra was feeling sorry for herself and Queen Layla put her in her place.
I was a little disappointed that Garion broke up the band to go after Torak himself, but it makes a kind of sense when those left behind begin to gather the army.
Reading "The Belgariad" is like eating a bag of potato chips. It's just a lot of empty calories but it's hard to put down. This is your basic kitchen boy who finds out he's destined for something greater story. The characters are all cardboard cutouts and totally predictable. It's still very entertaining and I would recommend it whole heartedly. For something much more meaty, try Martin's "A Song of Ice and Fire" series.
When I was a kid, I liked this Belgariad novel least of the five, but now I consider it to be maybe the best (till the last one). Epic character development and immensely satisfying final part. More detailed review in Bulgarian here:http://citadelata.com/%D1%87%D0%B5%D1...
Eddings'in Belgariad serisinin dördüncü kitabı ve hikâyenin sonuna doğru yaklaşsak da beşinci kitapta okuru daha önemli olayların beklediğinin haberini de veriyor bu kitap. Fantastik edebiyat severler için zevkle okuyacakları bir kitap.Ayrıntılar: https://kitapokurum.blogspot.com.tr/2...
This is my favorite book in the first series. I like the pacing and the character moments and pretty much everything that happens. Everything really gets moving towards the big climax in the next book in this book as some plot threads get tied up and pieces start moving into place for the final confrontation. Just an excellent continuation of the story.
More of the same. Classic fantasy.Yet: I am beginning to tire of the horrible way David Eddings writes women. They're all shrill, half of them are empty-headed, and they all enjoy cooking and sewing. How lazy is that kind of writing?
