https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119688.Illness_as_Metaphor
In 1978, when Susan Sontag wrote  Illness as Metaphor , a classic work, she was a cancer patient herself. But in spite of that, it is not a book about being ill or about the travesties of being a cancer patient. In Sontag's words, it is 'not what it is really like to emigrate to the kingdom of the ill and live there, but the punitive or sentimental fantasies concocted about that situation'.Her subject is not physical illness itself but the uses of the various diseases as a figure or metaphor for
Tuberculosis was also once considered a type of abnormal extrusion: the word tuberculosis comes from the Latin tuberculum, the diminutive of tuber, bump, swelling - means a morbid swelling, protuberance, projection, or growth.Symptoms - transparency vs opaqueness - While TB is understood to be, from early on, rich in visible symptoms (progressive emaciation, coughing, languidness, fever), and can be suddenly and dramatically revealed (the blood on the handkerchief), in cancer the main symptoms are thought to be, characteristically, invisible - until the last stage, when it is too late.Speed and Time - TB is a disease of time; it speeds up life, highlights it, spiritualizes it.
Then the negative metaphors associated with cancer too might die out, or so Sontag hopes.But inevitably, we will find a new illness to replace it with, after all, the most powerful metaphors are the ones that scare us most.

In questi giorni in cui chi ha (avuto) il cancro è "un figo pazzesco" (come dice la Toffa, che prima dell'outing con ovazione finale in tv confesso di non sapere neanche chi fosse), in questi giorni dunque di così euforico sdoganamento di una malattia altrimenti nominabile solo con perifrasi inquietanti, io propongo la lettura di questo breve e luminoso libro: una lucidissima riflessione sul cancro, la sua simbologia e le metafore di cui la società contemporanea si avvale per parlarne.
Una malattia, dice sempre Sontag, cui bisogna razionalmente (con riflessione e pensiero rigoroso, non con emotività incontrollata) togliere questa impropria valenza metaforica, questo alone di lotta, questo lessico mutuato dal gergo militare, che la trasforma in spaventevole stigma.
“But how to be morally severe in the late twentieth century? How, when there is so much to be severe about; how, when we have a sense of evil but no longer the religious or philosophical language to talk intelligently about evil? Trying to comprehend “radical” or “absolute” evil, we search for adequate metaphors. But the modern disease metaphors are all cheap shots. The people who have the real diseases are also hardly helped by hearing their disease’s name constantly being dropped as the epito
She is not trying to do away with metaphorical language; what she seeks to do is outline the origins and ramifications of metaphor when it is (uncritically?) attached to serious disease, using tuberculosis and cancer as primary examples.
The point is that to use a mysterious disease (in the sense of its causes not being wholly known) like cancer as metaphorical for, or in commentary/condemnation of, society: 1) betters no one, 2) rather, harms those who are suffering from the disease, and 3) is morally wrong.
I particularly liked the idea that the metaphors for TB and cancer are so differently understood in our culture.
And even though cancer is seen as a kind of hardening of the body (you know, we get lumps that spread and grow and take over organs with dead solid masses) this hardening still never really gets compared to Medusa.
I worry about metaphors like this because they imply that the person doing the fighting, if their illness finally overruns their body, has somehow failed, you know: lost the fight, given up, surrendered to the enemy.
Sontag is an overanalyzing intellectual – that I knew and was prepared for it, but I still didn’t really get this book.
She cites tuberculosis an example of an old disease that was laden with myth and metaphor.
But then Sontag moves to the present-day cancer and its metaphors.
Cancer is perceived to be a “disease of insufficient passion, afflicting those who are sexually repressed, inhibited, unspontaneous, incapable of expressing anger…” She goes on in this manner, and it’s the central theme of her study of the metaphors of cancer.
Did cancer really have these myths and metaphors surrounding it back then?
Sontag is trying to demythologize a myth that no longer exists – or I’m not aware of it.
Herein, Sontag presents an excising polemic on the use of cancer and tuberculosis as metaphors of evil in (respectively) the Romantic and industrialized eras of modern society.
Sontag grasps desperately at every little data point in history suggesting at her thesis.
As a result, the author repeatedly rehashes concepts with a frequency that is tiring for a mere 85-page novelette.
Furthermore, Illness as Metaphor fails to consider an effective counter-argument; i.e. not taking into account the nature of language itself as metaphor, diminishing the role of other metaphors for societal evil, limiting exemplary components of the argument to literary references.
A fascinating central concept, but its presentation is sadly pallid.
اذا اختبرت عواطف كتلك، سوف تعمل بلا أي مجهود.عندما اصيبت سونتاغ بالسرطان، قررت كتابة كتابها هذا، حيث تتحدث عن الاستعارات والمجازات التي كانت تشير إلى بعض الامراض على مر التاريخ وفي الأدب، باتخاذها مثالين: السرطان والسل.
الكثير من الفرضيات وضعت حول اصابة الشخص بمثل هذه الأمراض، والكثير من الأمثلة تضع المريض كالمسبب الأكبر لمرضه، فمثلًا يعود مرضه لجوانب في شخصيته-السرطان هجوم الشخص على نفسه- أو أن اصابة شخص بمثل هذه الامراض يعتبر مثابة إلهام لكتابة قصص عظيمة ومؤثرة.
الكثير من الامراض رُبطت بتشبيهات لا توضح مدى معاناة الشخص مع مرضه، نستطيع رؤية هذا الشيء هذه الايام وبشكلٍ واضح جدًا في الأمراض النفسية، ومن الواضح أن الطريقة المثلى للنظر للمرض هي النظرة الحيادية دون أي لومٍ على المريض المصاب بها.
Although we all prefer to use only the good passport, sooner or later each of us is obliged, at least for a spell, to identify ourselves as citizens of that other place.I was to describe, not what it is really like to emigrate to the kingdom of the ill and live there, but the punitive or sentimental fantasies concocted about that situation: not real geography, but stereotypes of national character.
Yet it is hardly possible to take up one's residence in the kingdom of the ill unprejudiced by the lurid metaphors with which it has been landscaped.
Sontag argues that a certain ideological cruelty resides in the metaphors commonly used to describe cancer and other illnesses.
And on page 101, she says that her aim is to "alleviate unnecessary suffering." On the same page, she also says that she didn't think it would be "useful" to write another narrative about how someone suffered, was comforted, took courage, etc.
nor would I have rather read a narrative or expected her to write one, but that's not the point.
so I'll just say:The work is important because it offers a critical lens to view harmful and thoughtless ideological myths, but how far do we really want to go to police language and stories?
Sontag argues that the metaphors and mythology created around these diseases make them seem evil and mysterious and very much like invincible predators, and hence sometimes prevent people from believing in conventional treatment to cure them.
Sontag argues that patients are hardly helped by seeing and hearing all possible evils compared to cancer, and hopes that with advances in the treatment of cancer the metaphors will become obsolete.An interesting book, and since written before the times of AIDS very true about the place cancer and TB have been occupying in our mythology.
Published in 1978, “Illness As Metaphor” testifies to attitude towards cancer patients and it brings out a specific history of aversion through examples from literature and philosophy.
Although a progression from pure psychological prejudgment to accurate scientific improvement in cancer treatment has certainly been made since 1978, this book retains its topicality.The study exposes insightful analogy of two different illnesses, exploring the boundaries of their broader cultural and historical frame.
Sontag traces the language we use to discuss tuberculosis and cancer, with the former often referred to in romantic/aesthetized terms.
The part about using illness as a metaphor in society (ex: National Socialism calling Jews a cancer) felt sort of tacked on at the end without deep engagement.I have not read the updated text with its inclusion of HIV & AIDS.
For what it is--a discussion of the literal & figurative language associated with tuberculosis & cancer in 19th and 20th century literature--the book is useful.
I reread this for first time since 1970s in the middle of my own challenges last year.Sontag is clear in writing about health speech, or ill health comparisons.God bless and keep her.Highly recommended.
انكببت خلال الشهرين المنصرمين على ترجمة كتاب سونتاغ (المرض بوصفه استعارة) معتقداً أن الترجمة ستكون ذات فائدة وعون للقارئ العربي.
ومن هذه الأمراض ذكرت: السرطان، والتدرن، والسفلس، والطاعون، وأخيراً الجنون2- كانت سوزان سونتاغ مصابة بسرطان الثدي في اثناء تدوينها الكتاب (حسب ما صرحت به في مقابلتها في باريس ريفيو)، ولذلك السبب أتخذ بحثها طابع سلبي وأحادي الجانب، وبلون موجوع، ومبالغ به في الضدّ من مرض السرطان ورؤية المجتمع له.
أي إن المجتمع دائماً ما يتخذ أحد الأمراض ليكون له استعارة: ويجب أن يمتاز هذا المرض بالغموض، والفتك، والرعب، وصعوبة التشخيص والعلاج، لكي يتخذ كأمثولة يبنى عليه الاستعارات والتشبيهات
ليس من الخير أن يغدو المرض وصمة ذات حمل ثقيل ينوء به المريض داخل مجتمعه، وليس هناك عقوبة أشد من يعطى
I kind of wish Sontag had taken a harder stance on some of the issues she brings up - most of the essay is spent documenting evidence in a neutral tone, and I would've liked a little more time explaining what that evidence implies.
I also wish she had defined 'insanity', which she seems to use as a vague catch-all for any mental illness that results in people being separated from society.
It's quite an effective apology - having read the essay, I have a good understanding of why she regrets saying that and why it has a potentially negative impact on society, even if she doesn't dwell on her own actions too much.
corrupt[ing:] language itself' (41).'Any important disease whose causality is murky, and for which treatment is ineffectual, tends to be awash in significance' (59).'The language used to describe cancer evokes a different economic catastrophe: that of unregulated, abnormal, incoherent growth' (62).'More recently, the fight against cancer has sounded like a colonial war...and in a decade when colonial wars haven't gone too well, this militarized rhetoric seems to be backfiring' (66).'science fiction images about cancer echo the collective nightmare...
Previously, I had read her shorter essays and excerpts, but Illness as Metaphor provides much deeper insight into how she thought about politics, literature, and morality.
Sontag draws threads from 19th century literature to 18th century philosophy and finally 20th century totalitarianism, finding disease metaphors seemingly everywhere.
Breaking Bad, for example, is entirely about a milquetoast chemistry teacher who assumes a second life as a drug kingpin once cancer threatens to cut his disappointing life short.I would recommend this book to anyone interested in medicine, history, literature, or philosophy.
I'll definitely be reading more Sontag books very soon, though!
One of my favorite writer Siddharth Mukhergee made several references to this book by Susan Sontag.T
Hm. I was a little surprised at the argument presented by Sontag in this essay: that cancer, similar to TB in the 19th and early 20th centuries, is mythologized, often to the detriment of those who have the disease.
In fact, I was fascinated to see just how much of our current fashions come from mythologizing the disease.
Sontag argues that the "cult of thinness" we see in fashion began in part due to a romanticization of TB: "Consumption was understood as a manner of appearing, and that appearance became a staple of nineteenth-century manners.
Ok, positives first: it's a smart, smart book.
Susan Sontag doesn't let me down in the epiphanies department.With that being said, Sontag's kind of a lazy writer.
Like I get the sense that TB is this and cancer is that, but she doesn't do enough research to back up her claims.
It's just like, claim, pseudo example, move down, second claim, etc.
And that's something coming from me because I'm the laziest writer there is and usually don't care that much about this kind of stuff.
I'm glad I read this book anyway.
It's just a little problematic sometimes, as per most Sontag stuff.
This book is an excellent historical analysis of the development of tuberculosis and cancer metaphors.
The TB metaphors have largely died down (although understanding them is important to understanding literature at the times when they were in vogue) since treatments for TB were discovered.
The cancer metaphors are much more current, despite this work being 30 years old.
It provides a foundation for how we interpret illness, the sick, and society using the metaphor for cancer.
Her analysis of the systematicity of the metaphors is useful instruction of how to evaluate other illness metaphors.
This is so interesting, I can't believe it took me so long to get around to reading it.
I started reading it after a day and a half of having being shut in my room with a cold, not really seeing anyone and feeling kind of dramatic.
The stuff about cancer as metaphor for middle class repression and emotional restraint made me think a lot about people I know with potentially fatal/terminal/incurable illnesses who have gone on the Gawler diet or similar; my mum and her partner are really into it and she once told me that "breast cancer is just something you never got off your chest".
I read this when it was first published and I was in my mid-twenties. A lot of what she said about cancer & illness & health really resonated with me; my mother died of cancer when I was 11 and I’d known other people who had also died of cancer. But, society has changed quite a bit since then, in a positive way, so I’m not sure how much the material in here is still applicable. But, at the time, it seemed powerful and insightful.
romantic notions of tb, and how they fare up against cancer's imprint on modernity. oh, susan
That was a fun, fast read. In the style of literary analysis, which is not to everyone's taste. The parts about romanticizing and/or blaming individuals for their illness struck a chord with me, though I do wish Sontag had gone in on how and why that's so isolating. But, she was responding to a specific scenario in a specific time, so we got more analysis of military/political uses of this type of rhetoric instead.
This is a great and very thoughtful book - I only gave it 4 stars cos it feels out of date: for example, I wonder what she would have said about the current pink-ribbon fetishising / consumer movement around breast cancer?It's great as an historical prompt, but for me, the most interesting points were:- the contradictory nature of many of the metaphors - is this simply because they are metaphorical?
Something not so completely euro/westocentric would have been valuable here, I suspect.Sontag reportedly wrote this in response to her own diagnosis - and I would like to have known what metaphors she herself used / found herself using when thinking about her own situation.
In her introduction, Sontag says, "My point is that illness is *not* a metaphor, and that the most truthful way of regarding illness--and the healthiest way of being ill--is one most purified of, most resistant to, metaphoric thinking." Proceeding from this point, the book is a sad journey through the old attitudes towards tuberculosis and the people who had the misfortune to have it--and an infuriating catalog of the ways cancer patients were still being blamed for their illness in 1975.
Much has changed in cancer treatment since this book was published, but other illnesses are equally baffling and just as prone to being used as metaphors now.
I've been meaning to read this for about a hundred years, so perhaps the anticipation--I expected it to rock my world as a reader and as a scholar--killed it for me a little.
(Which means there is hope for all writers to get better with age, which is awesome.) I did learn about how we've interpreted tuberculosis and cancer differently, and how those metaphors matter.
It occurs to me as I write that maybe it didn't rock my world because I've read the work that it made possible--Lynda Birke's Feminism and the Biological Body, for example, gave me detailed insight into the problems of medical metaphors.
