https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87434.Liberty

The idea that the bovine masses do not need or want free choice, that they find it confusing and (irony!) oppressive and need to have someone who really understands what they need and provides it for them is treated to a pretty thorough dissection.
History, with a capital H for some writers, is also the subject of Berlin's analysis.
There is a view that history and its study should somehow discover the purpose of events and determine the pattern that Providence (the capitalisation is intentional) has laid down so that we can learn from it.
Berlin's dissection of this medieval idea is a pleasure to read.
Sự thật sẽ giải phóng bạn. Đây là sự thật. Hãy tự giải phóng mình.
There are some interesting things in here, but his style is very high-flown in a way which gets obnoxious, and he has a tendency to discuss broad ranges of ideas at once, often leading to vague conclusions, blatantly misinterpretations of other authors in the service of a narrative, or poetic wanking with no apparent end in sight... I didn't find this very informative. Why not just read the authors he's talking about rather than his endlessly repetitious monologue about them? 3 stars - i didn't hate it, and "two concepts of liberty" is good (albeit over-simple), but i was disappointed.
برلین در هر چهار موضوع به خوبی ورود پیدا میکند، در حین تشریح دیدگاه مخالف برای فهماندن آندبه مخاطب از هیچ تلاشی فروگذار نمیکند و در ارائه دیدگاه خود اختصار و دقت را به کار میبندد و در این حین ارجاعات خوب و به موقعی به دیگر متفکران و آثارشان میدهد.کتابی است که باید خواند و دوباره خواند. هر مقاله آن حاشه نویسی خانه خود را دارد، شاید وقتی دیگر جایی دیگر.
برلین در هر چهار موضوع به خوبی ورود پیدا می‌کند، در حین تشریح دیدگاه مخالف برای فهماندن آندبه مخاطب از هیچ تلاشی فروگذار نمی‌کند و در ارائه دیدگاه خود اختصار و دقت را به کار می‌بندد و در این حین ارجاعات خوب و به موقعی به دیگر متفکران و آثارشان می‌دهد.کتابی است که باید خواند و دوباره خواند. هر مقاله آن حاشه نویسی خانه خود را دارد، شاید وقتی دیگر جایی دیگر.
Berlin is one of my favorite political philosophers - I think he's absolutely brilliant and very relevant to today's political debates, particularly in the field of bioethics, which is of particular interest to me.
ماذا نعني بالانسان الحر ؟ يجادل إيزيا برلين حول مفاهيم الحرية وعلاقتها بالحتمية - فهل يمكن أن تكون ت
While reading Four Essays on Liberty (not the expanded version), I felt sure I would criticize Berlin's verbosity and repetitiveness.
But finally I'm reminded that an essay is, by definition, an exploration of a subject, not the author's final thoughts.
There is in these essays a sense of Berlin advancing ideas he is not necessarily totally convinced of.
And from the introduction, which is a reply to his critics, and several footnotes, it's clear Berlin is eager to receive, ponder and learn from criticism.I still think, however, the book too long for the amount of solid intellectual substance it provides.
i am so engaged in this book, with a different cover, BTW, a 1970 reprint...i quote as many snippets to friends, fans and family as often as possible, without sounding like a accademic, which am not...but aspire to be!!! The question of liberty within the limits of our contemporary social organisation, concerns me and whilst not wanting to over-simplify the complex issues surrounding FREEDOM, I am actually re-reading it from cover 2 cover, just to be able to retain all its little pearls of wisdom...
Berlin thought this was his most important work and I have to agree. Freedom and liberty are sadly either undervalued or tortured into meaning exactly their opposite. Berlin, as always, provides lucid and coherent arguments that always respectfully acknowledge those who would take an opposing view. This makes his point of view all the more valuable and persuasive. Long sentences that require concentration, but a beautiful writer as well as a profound thinker.
Very insightful from a great contemporary theorist. A prime example of history dictating philosophical groundwork (which maybe unfair, is probably unfair), using, though not explicitly, the times with which he's writing to heavily influence what he's writing. The Cold War.. "The battle of the ideologies"
Cuốn này nhằm thu hút đông đảo người đọc nên viết khá dễ hiểu!? Mình đọc cuốn này sau Căn tính và bạo lực nên thấy rất nhiều điểm trùng hợp trong 2 cuốn này. Về căn bản họ đều ủng hộ pluralism, tính đa dạng của xã hội.Cuốn sách cũng có thái độ nghi ngờ về negative freedom mà John Stuart Mill đề ra.
This book contains the essay on Two Concepts of Liberty, which for the first time had me think of the difference between 'freedom from' and 'freedom to.' The 'freedom to' concept gives form to why we struggle to improve and also why certain restrictions are actually essential to free us.
Long winded and often repetitive. Occasionally some real gems, philosophical insights worth noting. He takes a long, long time showing that applying laws appropriate to the physical sciences don't work well when applied to humans because humans unlike atoms have independent purpose and motive.
En este libro se encuentra el texto "Dos Conceptos de Libertad".Citado en el artículo de Comim de  Capabilities and Happiness.
A set of five essays on liberty and some assorted other writings from his papers. The essay on JS Mill was one of the best things I've read in a long time.Philosophy discussion group--> https://www.facebook.com/TheLensGrind...More book reviews--> http://curtisknowsnothing.blogspot.com
left more confused as to what'Freedom' really is, but an enlightening read all the same. He does waffle on a bit though which made the reading a bit labourious.
Two concepts of liberty
Liberty: Incorporating Four Essays on Liberty by the late Isaiah Berlin (2002)
An influential and important work in the study of freedom and rights.
Four Essays on Liberty (Oxford Paperbacks) by Isaiah Berlin (1990)
It makes you think and is very actual even though it was written a while ago.
Politiskā filozofija nav mana stiprā puse (un eseju par Millu izlasīšu pēc tam, kad būšu lasījis Millu).
Good stuff, particularly, of course, the distinction of negative and positive liberty.
Everyone should read this.
