https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15757434-crash
So the book started off OK-ish. I didn’t think the writing is particularly good but it was readable. But what I did hate or at least thought was absolutely ridiculous was the plot. So what’s this book about- Well as far as I can tell it is just your basic good girl meet bad boy romance, except they are both named after Beatles songs, Lucy and Jude, and the plot is so ludicrous I want to cry/laugh! I took an instant dislike at Lucy. She came across as conceited and cocky with no real means to bac
So what’s this book about- Well as far as I can tell it is just your basic good girl meet bad boy romance, except they are both named after Beatles songs, Lucy and Jude, and the plot is so ludicrous I want to cry/laugh!
Jude seemed alright, although the picture of someone constantly in a ratty grey beanie is hardly my idea of sexy.As for the previously mentioned bad plot, it was so far fetch at one point I thought I was going to sprain something from rolling my eyes so often.
But Lucy instantly forgives Jude when he says hi to her.
I swear I felt like I was meeting him myself - my heart was pounding and just completely melted :)Jude Ryder *squee/swoon* is a true bad boy and I literally loved him from the moment he showed up!
He was like Travis Maddox's long lost brother - arrogant, cocky, with a bad reputation and a 2-page rap sheet, but so heart-racingly sexy and swoony and HOT but deeply tortured beneath the surface that you really can't help but fall in LOVE!
I could probably go up to a 3 for readability's sake because the book was an easy read to get through and didn't bore me, but I probably won't because I didn't connect with the characters or story.Quite frankly, I wasn't really all that bothered by Jude's temper.
He did say one thing near the end of the book that really irritated me, but I'll let all of the rage centered on Jude's behavior come from someone else (and I know it will from a few of my lovely friends) because I don't have the energy to work myself up over this when I've seen way worse from other YA book characters and I have other things I want to talk about in this review.
Initial Reaction After Completion I am really confused with the book and how to go forward with the review. I don't know whether to be positive or negative about it. I'm torn between the cynical and romantic side. So, I'll dish out the story in two perspective and let you decide. The Good Part The Hopeless-Romantic Perspective Girl meets boy. There is instant attraction. The boy is a tragic hero with a flawed character but a huge heart. The girl senses the loneliness as well as the goodness, wh
The boy meets his true love and promises to mend his ways because she makes him want to be a better person, the one a girl like her deserves.
This is just the plain old bad-boy meets girl shit.
I would run like hell.Anyway, the story progresses and the girl goes into a relationship with a guy, who, for all she knows, is a big time criminal.
That is all that happens for 40% of the book.The point being, how can girls be so fucking stupid and dumb?
It was too unbelievable and ridiculous.So, try it out if a bad-boy-perfect-girl story is your thing.
If you love YA Romance READ THIS BOOK!
Lucy Larson is about to enter senior year at a new school Southpointe High.
Dance is her life and Juliard is her next goal.While out catching some sun rays she also catches the eye of Jude Ryder.
But Jude doesn't make his move he continues to play football on the beach with his friends.
Too bad she is now playing hard to get.Thoughts Jude and Lucy experience alot of pain and heartache in this book.
So read the book it will not disappoint.Jude-I just wanna slop him up with some biscuit and gravy YUM!
"The name's Jude Ryder, since I know you're all but salivating like a rabid dog to know, and I don't do girlfriends, relationships, flowers, or regular phone calls. If that works for you, I think we could work out something special."
This was adorable!!! I loved it!! I have to find out how their college years turn out. I hadn't read a teeny bopper book that was this cute in a hot minute. Hahaha!!
Lucy meets Jude on the beach and is immediately drawn to him.
Although Jude severely flaunts his arrogance and Lucy knows he's someone whom she'd be better off staying away from, she cannot seem to resist him.
Jude ends up winning her over and they begin a roller coaster of a relationship that is certain to reel you in and keep you on your toes.
Lucy and Jude's story began broken from the cruelties of life, and I enjoyed their emotional journey towards wholeness.
Sweet but strong heroine.▪	 Plot: Centers on an angsty, roller coaster-type relationship.▪ Writing: Fun and sexy.▪ POV: 1st Person: Heroine▪	 Cliffhanger: None.
Meh...This was just okay.Listened to it on Audiobook.Could have been part of my "meh" attitude toward this one.This story was utterly predictable.I had this whole thing pegged nearly from the start which made it loooong and a bit boring.But, it passed the time in the carpool lane.
This was really disappointing for me.Clearly the author did absolutely NO RESEARCH prior to writing this.She has no idea how fooball is played, no idea of the juvie system, no idea of the child welfare system, and honestly she was so far off the map with teenagers it was scary.
How many time did Lucy think about dance, talk about dance or, I don't know, actually dance in the whole book?
I'm pissed that this was on my recommended list, that I spent money on it, and that there are reviews with 5 stars for this book.
DNF at 6%. Sorry Jude lovers.Love the Lost and Found series, love this author, and love my book bestie Christine = I'm going to try this book.
The perfect weekend book!It’s short, sweet, with a whole lotta’ bite! [image error]  “You can’t be friends with the person you were meant to spend your life with.”    Lucy Larson   ♦ Type-A personality.♦ Snarky wit with its own attitude.♦ The dancing studio is her only safe haven from her life that recently took a TITANIC of a nosedive. ♦ Has a save-the-world-one-thing-at-a-time philosophy.And she’s in love with the one boy who she may not be able to save…  Jude “Ride Her” Ryder   [image error]
(And that’s saying something!)♥ Has a save-the-world-one-screw-at-a-time philosophy.♥ The only save haven Jude has comes in the form of beautiful dancer who is the only girl who can tell him no.And Lucy is mesmerized with the boy whose story in his eyes is worth memorizing.But is Jude too much for Lucy?Hell, is he too much for anyone?I mean, this the kind of guy who only stops for a breather when there are blue and red lights flashing behind him.The guy’s practically a walking WARNING sign.
“The kind that kills you in the end.
I have seen some friends complaining about people "attacking" them because they do not rate books the same way and this has to stop guys.
We are not robot, we don't like the same books and we need to let other people rate/review books the way they want.I didn't mark this one as read because I know most of my friends are absolute fans of this book and I deeply respect them so pls, respect me as well.Let's be more considerate guys, GR is a great place to talk about books not to fight about them.
09/19/2012 Full Review Posted on: http://2geekgirlsreviewbooks.com/ 1.8 StarsBook Cover / Book Blurb = 5 Cover / 5 Book Blurb, Total 5 StarsWriter’s Voice = 1 StarsCharacter Development = 1 StarsStory Appreciation = 1 StarsWorth the Chili = 1 StarsA BIG “Did NOT Finish” [DNF] for me! I decided to read this book because several of my GR friends have read it and liked it. It has been compared with Beautiful Disaster by Jamie McGuire, so, have to say, the comparison intrigued me. It was also $4 on
Has trouble in school and real anger management issues, but I liked him.2.) This is going to sound terrible, but I really liked the cover, and the blurb….
[did I already say that??]3.) Sorry, not much else.What did I not like or appreciate about this book?1.) Too many disconnects for me to enjoy this story.
And, if a kid were to read it, they wouldn’t have a good story to put it into context for them.
I’ve heard it compared to Beautiful Disaster, but other than the bad behavior by Jude, I couldn’t see the cause for comparison.
3 starsI enjoyed reading this book. There were times the plot was confusing, a choice the hero made that did not go over well with me, and a little–or a lot–far fetchness, but I still liked much about this story. It was a pleasure spending time in the world of these engaging characters and freshing to read a young adult novel free from vulgarity and raunchiness. Over all, Crash made for a delightful afternoon read.
The drama worked out for me, it pulled me in right from the beginning, because I'm a sucker for drama and I won't even try to deny it.Lucy Larson is a 17-year-old with the ambition of getting into Julliard and becoming a dancer.
He's living in a boy's home and things are not pretty in his life, until he meets Lucy and she becomes the girl he wants to marry.The thing about this, is that it has amazing characters.
I couldn't get enough of the amazing characters and their cuteness.
♫ HEY JUDE, YOU STOLE MY HEART, FROM THE MOMENT YOU CAUGHT THAT FOOTBALL♫Jude Ryder Jamieson stole this reader's heart from the get go:“The name’s Jude Ryder, since I know you’re all but salivating like a rabid dog to know, and I don’t do girlfriends, relationships, flowers or regular phone calls. If that works for you, I think we could work out something special.”Yep, Lucy never stood a chance! Lucy and Jude's relationship hits a lot of twists and turns. A GREAT GREAT Story. Five Diamond Stars in the Sky for Lucy & Jude.
Jude and Lucy have the ever present "I want what I can't/shouldn't/deserve" relationship.
She meets Jude, the bad guy, the guy from the "wrong side of the tracks" or whatever and falls for him.
When you have someone telling you, after so much bad..."It's hard not to recognize something special when life's thrown a lotta shit your way."You can't help but fall in love.
I absolutely one hundred and ten percent loved this book.No matter what bad things happened: the women, jail stints, anger issues..Jude summed it up perfectly to Lucy,"You've got all my firsts.
⭐⭐⭐ 1st book of 3 in a modern Juliet and Romeo story.Reading order     Best thing about this book: JudeWorst thing about this book: it was too short The name's Jude Ryder, since I know you're all but salivating like a rabid dog to know, I don't do girlfriends, relationships, flowers or regular phone calls. If that works for you, I think we can work out something really special This books turned out to be a REALLY great surprise. I went into reading this book with the thought that maybe this woul
I went into reading this book with the thought that maybe this would be one of those cute young adults novels with a lot of fluff and/or a bit of smut.
But I´m so happt too say I fucking LOVED this book, even though i didn´t like Easy that much (sorry guys, don´t hate me!!) Bad boy meets good girl (and we're talking BAD here, as in REAL bad news - stay away from boy), set in the last year of high school, mixed with tragic life events.
He was the best thing about this book, and the heroine wasn't that bad either, actually quite likable from time to time
Lucy and Jude; night and day, their worlds colliding in one dramatic way!
Their story was very emotional, heartbreaking but inspiring!
Their journey truly left me breathless with it's raw emotion and drama.
Drop me like a bad habit and don't look back, because God knows, it can't be me that walks away since I'm incapable of it" - Jude"You can't be friends with the person you were meant to spend your life with" - JudeIf you loved Beautiful Disaster by Jamie McGuire you'll want to read this one!!!
And don't even get me started on the lawsuits that would rain down upon Lucy's father's head when the co-worker harmed by Mr. Jamison decides to sue Mr. Lawson for HIS "gross negligence" because he DIDN'T fire the man who was so drugged up that he put all of his co-workers at risk.While I can, with great effort, forgive Ms. Williams for failing to enlighten her readers on all of the afore mentioned legal facts, what I CANNOT forgive is her ultimate justification for the murder of Lucy's Brother.
But it sooooo did!Before I get to Jude and get all unnecessary over the hot bad boy...
I loved the first scene, on the beach, drooling over the hot guy playing football, trying to attract his attention.
Lucy and Jude's first conversation was brilliant and really set the mood for the book.
He's protective, overbearing, misunderstood but his love for Lucy turns his crime ridden, tortured world on it's head.
I had to use a lot of improvisation when it came to imagining Lucy and Jude and I like to be able to picture my characters quickly when I'm falling love with them.And on to the ending *sigh*.
Okay we went from this,   “The name’s Jude Ryder, since I know you’re all but salivating like a rabid dog to know, and I don’t do girlfriends, relationships, flowers, or regular phone calls. If that works for you, I think we could work out something special.”  to this,  “How does a guy like you promise someone forever at eighteen?”“Easy,” he said, pressing a soft kiss into the corner of my mouth. “He finds a girl like you.”   Oh man, I'm in love with a book.
Why is the rating for this book so high??????Mind boggling.
GOD, I haven't met a more irritating male character since that Christian guy from Fifty Shades.
LUCE:You took the guy back after he stole a car to pick you up for homecoming and then got into a POLICE CHASE in said car leaving you stranded????????????You've now entered the twilight zone where women (Lucy) have no self respect yet continuously quote their feminist notions as if they had some sort of position in their (Lucy's) lives (life).
Wtf. This book sucked.
Just no.These two talk nothing like high-schoolers.
Lucy makes a reference to her "many failed relationships." She sounds nothing like a high-schooler and everything like a 30-something who has sworn off men after being scorned over and over again.
Especially not one who is so consumed with ballet and expects to get into Julliard.Right before I stopped reading, Jude (beach asshole) shows up at Lucy's house and apparently lives next door, yet she's never seen him before.
Translation:For a 17-year-old girl with dreams of a bright future, "someday, maybe" sounded far more appealing than it probably should.These instances are sprinkled throughout the text, not enough to make me think Ms. Williams is a bad writer, necessarily, but enough that I got the impression she's not the best at expressing herself with words, and she doesn't take near enough care in polishing her work before she sends it out into the world.
*scratching head*) (hide spoiler)], I enjoyed the overall direction of the tale, and better grammar/superior skill with the written word would have made it much more enjoyable.
FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED4.5 to 5 StarsHey Jude, don't make it badTake a sad song and make it betterRemember to let her into your heartThen you can start to make it betterHey Jude, don't be afraidYou were made to go out and get herThe minute you let her under your skinThen you begin to make it betterAnd anytime you feel the pain, hey Jude, refrainDon't carry the world upon your shouldersFor well you know that it's a fool who plays it coolBy making his world a little colderNah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah(The Beatles)“Hey Jude” meets “Lucy In the Sky” Venturing into the world of Young Adult contemporary fiction, I’ve had the pleasure of reading some really wonderful books lately.
Quick review:Cover: Fitting Rating:  R Thumbs Up:  4Overall: Well worth the price of admissionCharacters: SolidPlot: Even the worst offenders have a chance at redemptionPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend:  AbsolutelyBook Boyfriend: JudeSUMMARY (50 words or less)Beautiful Disaster like, sure. Jude however is the real deal. Jude is a real bad boy in ever since of the word. The drama that unfolded in this book had me riveted. Almost a five star but not quite. See my full review for why. Certain well worth the read.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
Jude, Jude, Jude, What can I say?He's a very intriguing character, and I like the fact that he can't seem to get over Lucy. There's a lot going on in this book but it is beautiful anyways. They have a really good chemistry, unfortunately just like every other couple, they have to solve each of their internal problems before moving into each other.
Tortured bad boy with layers of soft underneath...just the way I like my boys. Jude reminded me of a couple of my favorite tortured souls, specifically Hardin Scott and Travis Maddox. Can't help but love him. This was a fun high school romance with a fair share of drama - I'd definitely recommend it.
