https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32145.Stiff
Fascinating, touching and surprisingly wholesome considering it's about dead bodies Many people will find this book disrespectful. There is nothing amusing about being dead, they will say. Ah, but there is. Mary Roach brings cadavers into a whole new, sometimes painfully bright, light. We follow her as she attends autopsies and medical discussions. We learn what happens to bodies as they decompose on the field, under the field and in so, so many places. The way I see it, being dead is not terrib
Fascinating, touching and surprisingly wholesome considering it's about dead bodies
There is nothing amusing about being dead, they will say.
We learn what happens to bodies as they decompose on the field, under the field and in so, so many places.
The way I see it, being dead is not terribly far off from being on a cruise ship.
We even go so far back as ancient Egypt and their secret honey recipe (you will never look at honey in the same way) (trust me).This is one book you'd have to be
If you can’t cope with the idea of death without a hearty dose of euphemism – this probably isn’t going to be the book for you.When I became an archivist at the City of Melbourne a very dear friend of mine became a technician at the city Morgue.
The noise I made was loud enough and distressing enough for my daughters to ask what was the matter – they didn’t ask again.Part of my friend’s job involves removing people’s brains – this is also described in some detail here.
Anyway, let's get down to review business.Mary Roach manages to take a subject that give many people the heebie-jeebies, donating one's remains to science, and makes it humorous at times.
She covers such topics as learning surgical techniques via practicing on cadavers, human decomposition, ingesting human remains for medicinal purpose, using corpses in car crash tests, using cadavers for ballistics tests, crucifixion experiments, and even head transplants.While it's not ideal meal-time reading, I didn't find it as stomach churning as some reviewers did.
Fascinating stuff.Stiff is a very interesting read for those interested in what happens when you donate your body to science, softened somewhat by Roach's sense of humor.
Omg and Grossness!
I made the mistake of trying to eat a bit while reading this!
And then a part where they talk about left over skin being used for wrinkle stuff and something to do with penises.
Although, now, if a penis was ever whipped out somewhere, I would have to wonder if that penis had something to do with cadaver skin!
I did have to skip over stuff due to my ewww reflex.
But there is a lot of stuff I learned that I had no idea about.
There is a lot of historical stuff too.
And the cadaver drive test dummies!
The book is about medical use of corpses and the human body, present-day and in the past.
The book makes you want to be an organ donor, or want to donate your body to medical science.
The problem is that the author is one of the WORST writers I have ever read to the extent that every time I picked up the book I got angry.
The two irritating aspects of the book are: 1) Roach would spend a few pages describing something fascinating and then ruin it all by throwing in the snarkiest comment imaginable.
Laugh out loud funny is the way to go if you want to learn more than you realized might be worth knowing about dead bodies. It made me greatly disposed to finding out what else Roach has written, before I become a subject for studies like this one. And here are reviews of what we found:-----Grunt-----Gulp -----Packing for Mars-----Spook
After reading this book, I am not saying I will go back and change any of our decisions, but it definitely gave me a lot of thinking points I would not have considered and may have had an affect on how my decision making went if I had read this before the planning took place.After death - the inanimate body lives on and something has to be done with it - read this if you want to know more!Side note - This is my second Mary Roach (I also read Gulp: Adventures on the Alimentary Canal) and I liked this one a bit better.
She later met the woman who actually did the chopping and Roach admits that all she could think was, “You cut off heads!!”)So we get treated to a gory set of stories about how science uses corpses in a variety of ways including the study of impacts for the auto industry, how a brain-dead woman’s organs are removed by a transplant team, and a field of bodies left to rot for forensic research.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Cadavers are our superheroes: They brave fire without flinching, withstand falls from tall buildings and head-on car crashes into walls. You can fire a gun at them or run a speedboat over their legs, and it will not faze them. Their heads can be removed with no deleterious effect. They can be in six places at once.” If you know me, you already know that I have a different sort of relationship with the dead. You know, the kind where y
You know, the kind of book only a morbid weirdo like myself could truly enjoy.
Stiff takes it to a whole new level, covering just about every potential “career” one can have after death .
Not to mention dealing with the more taboo subjects that relate to the dead .
As a bonus, all of the above subject matter was written about with such charm and humor that I found myself LOLing for real at times.
If reading a “smart people book” (a/k/a non-fiction) is something you’d like to do more of, Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers is one I’d highly recommend.
I'm a compulsive buyer of Mary Roach's books.
Part of the reason is research for my own books, of course, part of it is fascination, thanks to her astute choice of subjects, and part of it is simply enjoyment, derived from her clear prose and tales well told.
In this case, I read Stiff just after my father passed away, so I was trying to make sense of his loss while trying to come to terms with the brute reality of death.
It helped a great deal, as I anticipated it would, largely down to Roach's sympathetic and informative tone.
I will say though, the book dragged quite a bit around the middle (two chapters back to back that didn't interest me at all) to the point that I almost considered putting the book down.
This is completely a testament to my personal preference and shouldn't cloud other people's idea of the book as a whole; aside from the boring two chapters, this was a solid 3.5 or 4-star read for me.
I feel like I learned quite a bit, while also having a pretty jolly time reading about dead bodies!
I went on and on about how it received great reviews and at the time he seemed extremely interested.Let’s pause right here so I can explain his levels of interest and how to read them:NOT INTERESTED – Changes subject at end of the convo and/or walks away.KIND OF INTERESTED – Nods at end of the convo like he might have listened.INTERESTED – Brief eye contact and a nod or two during the convo.EXTREMELY INTERESTED – Total eye contact and verbally interacts throughout convo.I was obviously wrong about his level of interest because he ended up purchasing a different book by the same author.
She goes through chapters about anatomy labs, decay, crash-test and military trials (for safer vehicles, or more effective bullets), plane crashes, transplants, burial and cremation, and even cannibalism.
Much of her writing is sort of falsely funny, as if she is very intentially trying to inject humor into a situation through the use of ridiculous asides that do nothing to add information or further her point.She also continually resorts to forced bathroom and genetalia jokes in order to articially infuse the book with humor.
I've read plenty of popular science books that have managed to do a much better job walking the line between entertainment for the layperson and providing good information.
For instance, laws against necrophilia in Nevada were more complete and specific than rape laws in the US: “The carnal knowledge of a female forcibly and against her will.” Until January 1, 2013 that is, when rape was redefined as: “Penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.” (Per FBI.gov.)Then there's the statistics of just how man lives can be saved by doing crash test experiments on actual human cadavers.
Loved this one! Mary Roach brings enjoyment to the macabre in this extremely educational book. Everything you wanted (and some things you didn't want to) know about the life of a cadaver. Packed with laugh-out-loud humour and interesting facts on every page, you'll be sad as it reaches the end. So check this book out and learn all about the exciting life your own body could have after death!
In spite of the macabre topic, Mary Roach must have had a ball doing her footwork for this book.
I think that her fair and open-minded approach probably broke down barriers very quickly,Mary, you see, is not the squeamish type.
The result is a fair and honest look at the dead, how we have used them in the past and what we may have to do in the future in order to dispose of the millions of people who will be expiring daily.The book has every right to be sombre.
I'm not sure what happened and why it took me so long to get this information into my brain.This is a book about what happens to dead bodies.
Also, if you're the type who feels death should only ever be treated with the utmost respect and honor, you may want to steer clear as, at times, she is mildly irreverent, which, of course, I loved.
Only once did I think she bordered on downright disrespectful and I don't even remember what it was that made me feel that way so, obviously, not a huge deal if you're not easily offended by joking around a bit in regard to death and dead bodies.
Well, I am half way through this and it has turned into a huge disappointment.
What started out to be a funny depiction on what happens to donated cadavers, has taken a turn for the horrible.
I now find myself skipping over entire pages due to the lack of interest her writing presents and the tangents on which she goes; this I image done for two reasons 1) She needed filler and 2) She thought that by adding humor to the book that it would deflect some of the gore...not so.
It gets 2 stars b/c it started off well, but sadly enough, I may not even finish this one.***** UPDATE *****Okay, so I can't really say I finished reading this book, because I didn't.
R, is for Roach 3.5 StarsHUM-ANE: adjective: humane; comparative adjective: humaner; superlative adjective: humanest1. having or showing compassion or benevolence. "regulations ensuring the humane treatment of animals" synonyms: compassionate, kind, considerate, understanding, sympathetic, tolerant; How is it that a species with a history ripe with abuse and mistreatment of animals has come to use a word so similar to that species title to describe the very thing history proves us not to be?! A
What we really fear isn’t death itself (at least for the most part); it is the act of ‘dying’ and the pain and hardship that comes with living in a body you KNOW is failing you.
( I should really stop talking about things this book ISN’T about) This book is about the serious scientific advancements that have come about owing to the use of the cadaver.
And our history is full of horrible instances of grave-robbing, non-consensual cadaver use and even murder when it comes to furthering science or scientific advancements by using the body of a person who can no longer object.
Have you ever wondered what happens to the body when it dies?
Have you ever wondered if embalming keeps your body from ever decaying?
These are just a few of the questions covered in this book.I absolutely love Mary Roach’s writing style!
She keeps the reader engaged and asks the questions we are all curious about..
Well, at least the questions I was curious about.
This was a fascinating and at times a disturbing read.
There are several sections that discuss experiments on animals—the same or similar experiments that are being done on cadavers—that was very difficult for me to read.
Opening paragraph: The way I see it, being dead is not terribly far off from being on a cruise ship. Most of your time is spent lying on your back. The brain has shut down. The flesh begins to soften. Nothing much happens, and nothing is expected of you. If you read this book, you will undoubtedly have many “ick” moments (especially in the chapter about eating the dead, but there’s also that footnote about necrophilia on page 43...), but you should have even more laugh-out-loud moment, and maybe
If you read this book, you will undoubtedly have many “ick” moments (especially in the chapter about eating the dead, but there’s also that footnote about necrophilia on page 43...), but you should have even more laugh-out-loud moment, and maybe a few bemuse-the-other-bus-riders when you groan and laugh simultaneously, especially if they see the cover of the book.Roach as a writer delights in the subtle twist creeping into the prose, the textual double-take.
But don’t read this book while eating, especially not rice crispies or chicken soup.
She's like the wise ass class clown in the back row, heckling the teacher and distracting everyone from an otherwise fairly decent lecture.
On a professional note, Roach seems awfully distrustful of librarians.
Does she really think the circ clerk at a medical library thinks she's freaky for checking out books on dead people?
Does she really think a librarian is going to mistake her PubMed search as porn and bust her?
Roach could use a good librarian, who could help her improve her search skills and also help her find the next open mic night to practice her shtick.
Last year my man and I visited Calgary on our way to the mountains and spontaneously decided to check out the Body Worlds exhibit in the local science museum.
The majority of the exhibit was exceptionally fascinating and educational, and considering the subject, not too outlandish, until we reached the curtained room that illustrated human reproduction and sexuality.
I'm sure I wasn't the only one in the room wondering, Would these people donate their bodies to science if they knew they'd be displayed this way to strangers?
Gone are the days when I thought that bodies were either donated to universities, cremated, or buried - there are SO MANY MORE OPTIONS.This book was both a fascinating and gruesome read.
I wouldn't recommend it for people that are faint of heart, as this might be a bit of an ordeal to get through.I really enjoyed the mix of fact and humour as well as first-hand experience that Mary Roach included in this book.
However, I can understand why it was included, because this is a microhistory after all and must stay true to the facts put forward throughout the book.
Morbid and tongue-in-rancid-cheek funny nonfiction piece about what happens to a body when it's donated to science. From shaving off their faces for plastic surgery training to strapping them in for automobile crash tests, these stiff bodies are in for one hell-on-earth of a ride. The most curious thing? Even after hearing how they're poked and prodded, desecrated and dismembered, I actually think I'm more likely to donate my body to science now than I was before reading this book. Not sure I want to know what that says about me...
Seventeenth-century surgeon-anatomist William Harvey, famous for discovering the human circulatory system, also deserves fame for being one of few medical men in history so dedicated to his calling that he could dissect his own father and sister.
Churches in Scotland built graveyard "dead houses", locked buildings where a body could be left to decompose until its structures and organs had disintegrated to the point where they were of no use to anatomists.
261Promessahttp://www.promessa.se/HOW CADAVERS ARE USEDUpward of 80 percent of the bodies left to science are used for anatomy lab dissections.New Mexico's Maxwell Museum of Anthropology accepts bodies specifically to harvest the bones.
I wonder if people who donate their body to science know they might end up as practice for a face-lift?
Body snatching and other sordid tales from the dawn of human dissection – interesting.
Human crash test dummies and the ghastly, necessary science of impact tolerance – very interesting.
When the bodies of the passengers must tell the story of a crash – interesting.
Decapitation, reanimation and the human head transplant – This chapter was disgusting.
Eat Me: Medicinal cannibalism and the case of the human dumplings – this chapter was also disgusting.
Overall, this was a fascinating book and I learned a lot.
Morbid humor supported by extensive research = my kind of read. Now, how do I make Mary Roach my eternal BFF?
If you are considering donating organs or your whole body to science - like I was before even picking this book up, curious, or a family member wants to do this and you want to know more - this is a good book to read.It tells you the history of the dead body - how once upon a time people were afraid of being buried alive, the history of how cadavers were once acquired.
195)Also, if I do not end up donating the rest of my body to science, then I want to become human compost.
GREAT!!!!
