https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7315573-fall-of-giants
It's a little disappointing that people are rating this book on Amazon out of protest of its price.
I've read where some people have not been that interested in the subject matter of Fall of Giants and prefer the Middle Ages.
While you invest in the characters, the story is plot driven and moves pretty swiftly through the years.
There are times that a character may be left for a year before we hear from him again.
They are well written, but I am more interested in the people than military tactics.I was surprised at how quickly this book reads.

One of the early reviews I read stated that this book lacked one of Follett's infamous villains.
The ultimate villain in this enormous book is clearly war and perhaps the arrogance of world leaders.
I've always had a difficult time understanding the why surrounding World War 1 and this book helps put it in perspective (even if it is fiction).
Way to go early-20th century world leaders...thanks for all the memories.I really enjoyed this book and think it's worth it for everyone to read!
I really think that Fall of Giants is for the 20th century what North and South was for the Civil War.Review of Book 2: 
It’s not that Ken Follett is critic proof, because that implies that he achieves astronomical sales figures despite scathing reviews.
And I don’t care that Ken Follett can’t hear me because his ear canals are plugged with diamonds.
Instead, Ken Follett writes dumbbell-sized works of historical fiction that manage to be simultaneously prodigiously researched and absolutely inauthentic.
Ken Follett makes Herman Wouk read like Proust, and Terry C.
Gus and Rosa’s big-headed one-eyed children will have to fight another “world war.” If there’s a more awkward and clumsy way to set up the next book, I frankly really, really, really want to read it.
In fact, this highly praised - and very thick - volume I'd been anticipating eagerly, both because I had pleasant memories from The Pillars of the Earth and because currently I am rather WWI mad; I read Tuchman's classic works, Maddox Ford, not to mention Hemingway and Remarque, because I am fascinated by the subject.So what in the world went wrong with this book?This story, which is, like many Folletts, incredibly wide in scope and encompasses a decade, about fifty characters, and several countries, described the beginning of the 20th century, with a special focus, so the book blurb claims, on WWI.
A sweeping epic with the pace of a thriller, I could scarcely put it down.This ambitious novel, the first of a projected trilogy covering most of the 20th century, tells the story of five interrelated families—American, German, Russian, English and Welsh—as they negotiate the tremendous events of the First World War and the Russian Revolution.
Revolutions on the home front, from women’s suffrage to the rise of the workers, keep pace.
It is a period of intense change, a time when giants, be they royalty, tradition, or whole nations, are destined to fall.Follett’s story builds like the coming of far-off artillery fire.
The particularly notable aspect of Follett's storytelling is that he manages to weave together a great many themes in one fluid story: the First World War; political reform in Britain; social upheaval in Russia and the development of the United States as a significant world power.
One can't help but feel that the narrative my have been served better if Follett had not deliberately created links between so many characters, rather allowing more to progress through the story unnoticed by the others.Characterisation did also become a problem.
Follett's is a modern, mainstream interpretation, mainly based on the thoughts of anti-war poets from the trenches and is firmly rooted modern perceptions.
*** 3.33 *** "...“Men were the only animals that slaughtered their own kind by the million, and turned the landscape into a waste of shell craters and barbed wire. Perhaps the human race would wipe itself out completely, and leave the world to the birds and trees, Walter thought apocalyptically. Perhaps that would be for the best.”..." Here we are again, reading another tome by Ken Follett and trying to pinpoint my feelings about it. Not an easy task, I tell you that. As always, he is being hail
Don't get me wrong, I think he does great in a "WWI History Review Class 101" kind of way, but when you take on this type of scope, it is difficult to make a real point of the different struggles, since everything becomes more of a lesson and less of a human condition portrait...
As long as you look at it this way and forgive omissions due to impossibility to cover everything in this format, I think this is a good book to give you the feel for the World during WWI.
I think this does wonders to evoke the time period this was set in; it captures the opinion of nations and their fears towards a world that is quickly becoming enveloped in War. In addition to this, we see the nobility, and the gentry, respond to the crisis in ways that reflects their station.
Their lives are not exactly remarkable, but I think the way Follet writes captures something that many authors fail to do.
They feel like the kind of person that would have existed at the time, and the problems they face reflect the age in which they lived.
5.0 out of 5 stars Captivating epic tale!, August 5, 2010 This review is from: Fall of Giants (The Century Trilogy) (Hardcover) Customer review from the Amazon Vine™ Program (What's this?) This is a fantastic epic, the first in a planned trilogy by the author of The Pillars of the Earth (now a miniseries) and World Without End. I simply raced through the pages, unable to put this book down even though it was a hefty nearly 1000 pages.
The author has also inserted real historical figures into the story, and their interaction with Follett's characters is very well done.
At 985 pages, Fall of the Giants is a massive tome and the first book in The Century Trilogy, follows the fates of five interrelated families—American, German, Russian, English, and Welsh—as they move through the world-shaking dramas of the First World War, the Russian Revolution, and the struggle for women's suffrage.These characters find their lives inextricably entangled in a saga of unfolding drama and intriguing complexity, Fall of Giants moves seamlessly from Washington to St. Petersburg, from the dirt and danger of the coal mines to the glittering chandeliers of a palace, from the corridors of power to the bedrooms of the mighty.As with all Ken Follett novels the characters and historical events are extremely well researched.
What a novel to begin a new year reading and absorbing!After being highly impressed with the Pillars series created by Follett, I hoped to find as much depth and development in the Century Trilogy.The premise, following the fates of five interrelated families against a backdrop of world events is brilliant in its imagining and stellar in its delivery.
Follett lays the early foundations of a very powerful and deeply intertwined novel sure to grow as history progresses, putting families, nationalities, and alliances to the test throughout.The historical arc of the novel, 1911-1924, covers a great deal and touches on some very important events.
There were so many characters with so much going on in their lives.
However, the political details read more like a history book and made it very hard to dredge though.One part that did make me chuckle was when one of the characters had a chance to view a chapel that was built around 1000 AD.
Remembering "Pillars of the Earth", which might be argued as Follett's greatest novel, I think that was a little "tongue-in-cheek".This is the first book of a planned triology and I probably will read the others.
This novel didn't leave me breathlessly waiting for the next.
Ένα εκπληκτικό πέρασμα σε μια από τις πιο σημαντικές δεκαετίες του ταραχώδη 20ου αιώνα.
Βιώνουν απίστευτες στιγμές της ιστορίας και μέσα από τις υπέροχες περιγραφές του Φολλετ, και εμείς μαζί τους.
Βιώνουμε τον πρώτο παγκόσμιο πόλεμο από την σκοπιά της Αγγλίας, της Γερμανίας της Ρωσίας και της Αμερικής και όχι μόνο από την μεριά των πολιτικών και των στρατιωτικών αλλά και του απλού λαού.
Επίσης βιώνουμε και τις κοινωνικές αναταράξεις.
Από μια απεργία ανθρακωρύχων στην Ουαλία, τις διαδηλώσεις των σουφραζετων στο Λονδίνο, μέχρι την Ρωσική επανάσταση (δεν σήκωσα κεφάλι σε εκείνα τα σημεία, ο Φόλλετ τα έσκισε).
Definitely my favourite WWI history novel I have read thus far. Beautifully captures the troubles of WWI on all spectrums, not just politically or on the battlefield.
A sua interligação e interacção foi, na minha opinião, extremamente bem conseguida e dá-nos uma visão, ainda que romanceada (no fim de contas isto é um romance e não uma aula de História) dos sentimentos que moviam pessoas e nações naquele início do século dando através delas voz à insatisfação, aos medos, às ansiedades e inseguranças e às lutas que começavam a nascer e que deram origem a muito do que hoje somos e temos!
E no meio de tão intensa época não esqueceu aquilo que move o mundo e a Humanidade: o Amor!Foi com tristeza que cheguei ao fim.
Ken Follett sabe mesmo como contar uma história que nos envolve desde a primeira à última página!Correndo o risco de me repetir, só tenho uma palavra para descrever o livro: FANTÁSTICO!
Esta foi a minha estreia nos livros de Ken Follett. E foi uma excelente estreia! Adorei o tema, a escrita, os personagens... A única coisa que tenha a dizer é que de facto é um livro muito, muito grande, difícil de transportar e até de ler, pelas suas dimensões. Compreendo que o autor tenha querido pormenorizar o mais possivel a história e não senti que fosse demais, mais por favor, quando for assim dividam o livro em 2 volumes... Recomendo a leitura, sem duvida e espero ansiosamente a leitura do próximo, que já foi editado no nosso pais
I'm amazed at how easy it seems for Follett to bring all of these strings of sweeping historical and social change together in real people that you fear for, and make it understandable as well as engrossing.
I really enjoyed the The Pillars of the Earth - it was one of the first historical fiction novels that I discovered and loved - but I felt more connected to the characters and their challenges, not to mention the epic cathedral project, from the beginning.
The difference of time period may also be a factor - I enjoy reading about the Medieval Era, but have never really been able to get into books about the 20th Century wars.
Focus is on the early 1900s detailing a vast array of characters affected by the coming Great War (WWI) which helps along the process of women's suffrage, trade unions, topples nobility and the rise of the Bolsheviks in Mother Russia.
WWI focus is less on the battles and more on the suffering.
The very end of this 1000 page tale shows the aftermath of the war and the ominous foreboding of another World War to come.
CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B to B plus; STORY/PLOT POINTS: B; SETTING: B plus to A minus; OVERALL GRADE: B to B plus; WHEN READ: September to November 2010.
Seriously, has a better epic period novel been written than Pillars of the Earth?
Fall of Giants seems like it can't decide if it wants to be the beach novel or the epic period novel.
This is Grey's Anatomy meets World War I, without the hospital.
Just the romantic interests...oh and more marriages.It is strange to say, but the backdrop of World War I is so trivialized that it is almost casual.
Follett managed to bring significantly more pathos and emotion to the building of a Cathedral than the battles of Russia, Germany, England, Austria, and the US combined.
Not only did I finish the book quickly (at least according to me it was quick) but it was a page turner and non put-downable book (okay that phrase is mine and not correct English but believe me, it is worth that tag)!Ken Follett, through the lives of five families, recounts some of the world's most important historic moments and what's more is that he does it with a certain panache and pace that is definitely worth praises.
If you are willing to enjoy a good tale, with some real and imagined characters, set in the backdrop of one of the world's most important times, please go ahead and read it.
Most importantly I enjoyed it because Follett did an exceptionally fine job of portraying in some detail the political climate in England, Germany, Russia, and to a lesser extent the United States in the years leading up to WWII.
The stories were also enriched because Follett showed how different the thinking and perspectives were across generations.
But now I laugh and think what an impressive job he did in creating a compelling pageant of those war years with a focus on the social as much as the political upheavals.
This first novel in the Century trilogy is truly excellent, and it lays a magnificent foundation for what I hope are equally impressive parts two and three.
You know for instance that there is not going to be a Lloyd George speech in Parliament that’s totally made up, or which changes history to drive some sub-plot.I listened to the audiobook version, narrated by John Lee, who magnificently brought out numerous accents, including different kinds of Welsh accents.
Ein grandioses historisches Meisterwerk über die Zeit des ersten Weltkriegs ❤ Absolut faszinierend und fesseln ❤❤❤Die Geschichte startet kurz vor dem ersten Weltkrieg und man folgt den verschieden Personen unterschiedlicher Nationen durch diese Zeit und ich bin begeistert, dass es Ken Follett geschafft hat, dass es zu keinem Zeitpunkt langweilig wurde. Es war einfach genial wie er es geschafft hat Geschichte einem so nahe zu bringen.Man weiß ja eigentlich was geschichtlich zu dieser Zeit alles p
Ein grandioses historisches Meisterwerk über die Zeit des ersten Weltkriegs ❤️ Absolut faszinierend und fesseln ❤️❤️❤️Die Geschichte startet kurz vor dem ersten Weltkrieg und man folgt den verschieden Personen unterschiedlicher Nationen durch diese Zeit und ich bin begeistert, dass es Ken Follett geschafft hat, dass es zu keinem Zeitpunkt langweilig wurde.
Dabei fand ich es besonders herausstechend wie nahe mir die Protagonisten gekommen sind und wie betroffen mich ihr Schicksal machte.Ich habe das Buch als Hörbuch gehört und auch der Sprecher hat das Buch nochmal zu etwas Besonderem gemacht.Eine absolute Empfehlung für alle, die historischen Romanen nicht abgeneigt sind!

Find this and other reviews at: http://flashlightcommentary.blogspot....I can't really say what kept me from picking up this behemoth when it came out, but Ken Follett's Fall of Giants never demanded my immediate attention.
The end result is an intensely personal and multifaceted illustration of both WWI and the Russian Revolution.Follett's work is meticulously researched, but his ability to deftly weave together the stories and experiences of five families against such a massive and immersive backdrop sets Fall of Giants apart.
It's intimidating as hell to look at, but if anyone ever asked if I would endorse it, my answer would be an immediate and enthusiastic yes.
So much of the events of WWI have become clearer to me now.
(For the longest time, as far as I was concerned, World War I was just a collective term for that war in Europe, and even as I was aware of its impact, it never occurred to me that this was a major turning point in the history of most European countries and the United States, maybe even more than WWII was.)Pillars of the Earth is still a much better read than Fall of Giants, and contains much more historical context, but Fall of Giants still follows the usual Ken Follett tradition.
5 famílias que não poderiam ser mais diferentes e conhecendo todas elas realidades opostas (não só pela questão da nacionalidade), vão cruzar as suas vidas de uma forma ou outra e a questão permanecerá no espírito de cada um de nós: conseguirão todos eles, sobreviver, para ver o mundo renascer?
É impossível não nos sentirmos tocados de alguma forma por este relato histórico, que conta com personalidades também elas históricas, hoje em dia, os nossos exemplos (tanto para o bem como para o mal).
Os pontos mais fortes deste livro e que me levam a recomendá-lo são: * o estilo de escrita simples e clara do autor:Num livro de 900 páginas, penso que este aspecto se torna essencial para não "cansar" o leitor e para tornar acessível a sua leitura a todos, mesmo os "menos experientes" em ler livros que na gíria designamos por "livros-calhamaço".
4,5/5 Review to come
