https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22717015-beautiful-redemption
Right now it's FREE on Amazon! http://amzn.to/2ocbgNx 4/5/17  2 stars  Beautiful Disaster was my first ever New Adult novel. It's the reason I started reading romance books and not just young adult books. I read it all in one sitting and stayed up until 4 am trying to finish it. The appeal of the first book was its ability to suck you in and make you root for these characters who don't seem good for each other.  Beautiful Redemption  does not fit in the same category as its predecessor. Liis ha
Beautiful Disaster was my first ever New Adult novel.
Liis goes into work the next day and surprise surprise, her one night stand is in fact her new boss.
Now he and Liis must go undercover in order to recruit Travis into the FBI.
I was super excited to read this when I got my paperback in the mail, especially when I saw it was self-published.
First things first, when I was reading Beautiful Oblivion, I never really got the impression that Thomas was super in love with Camille.
So obviously, this book just didn't work for me like the other ones did.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
*****2.75 STARS*****{BR with Mel, Sharon, and Tiffany} I'm very sad.I wanted to love this story, there was a point at the 70% mark that I started to have hope, things were starting to get good, but then the main characters kept pulling the same crap, and I was over it.Liis Lindy has just moved to San Diego from Chicago, where she left behind an ex fiance. She doesn't do complicated and most definitely avoids anything that can cause her heartache. On her first night in town, at a local bar, she m
I'm very sad.I wanted to love this story, there was a point at the 70% mark that I started to have hope, things were starting to get good, but then the main characters kept pulling the same crap, and I was over it.Liis Lindy has just moved to San Diego from Chicago, where she left behind an ex fiance.
I totally get that she was jealous of Thomas' feelings for Cami, but at some point I was hoping she'd stop being completely clueless and see that Thomas was really crazy in love with her.The whole insta-love deal bothered me too.
Until Thomas is forced to recruit Travis to the FBI… or get him arrested for is involvement on the fire (if you read BD, you know what I’m talking about.) and ask Liis to go with him, to pretend to be his girlfriend so they don’t ruin their cover as undercover agents.
But what I do have a problem with, is the couple spending a great deal of the book unsure about their feelings, while the hero previous relationship is still very alive in the equation.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
He is keeping a big secret from his family, he has news to tell his brother, Travis, which will be devastating, and he is still in love with his other brother’s fiancé, Camille.Luckily, Liis comes into his life.
She is also an FBI agent who helps him solve cases as well as helps Thomas work through his struggles in more ways than one.
Taking Benny down or keeping Travis out of prison?" "One is entangled with the other." "Pick one." "I practically raised him." "That's not an answer." Thomas took a deep breath and exhaled, his shoulders sagging as if the answer were weighing down on him.
Woohoo!!! This is the next Maddox Brothers book and it's Thomas Maddox's story (oldest brother)!!! ♥  ::: BEAUTIFUL REDEMPTION ::: will be about the "loves and loss of Thomas Maddox, the eldest Maddox brother, told from the point-of-view of Liis Lindy, a no-nonsense agent of the FBI." Also, the series will have a total of 4 novels "chronicling the exciting, romantic, and sometimes volatile road to love" of the Maddox brothers."  No release date yet.
Aside from his personal problems, Thomas is also increasingly under pressure to get Travis recruited to the FBI in order to save him from possible prison time.
The only hiccup was Liis knows Thomas was still in love with Cami.
Thomas wanted Liis to take a chance with him but Liis fears that he might be using her to get over Cami.
I liked Liis' POV but there are moments where I would have given anything to read something from Thomas' POV.
I really do believe Liis is it for Thomas although there is still much room for their relationship to grow.
3.5 StarsYou know those books that you love and can read over and over again? Well Beautiful Disaster is one of those stories for me. I absolutely adore Travis Maddox. So when I see a book about the Maddox Brothers I have to dive right in.While I did enjoy certain aspects of this story, I didn't love it. The story between Liis and Thomas became tired after a while. Mainly because when you think of a Maddox boy this line comes to mind:  "And when a Maddox boy falls in love, he loves forever.” Thi
3.5 StarsYou know those books that you love and can read over and over again?
So when I see a book about the Maddox Brothers I have to dive right in.While I did enjoy certain aspects of this story, I didn't love it.
The story between Liis and Thomas became tired after a while.
Mainly because when you think of a Maddox boy this line comes to mind: 
"And when a Maddox boy falls in love, he loves forever.”
Of course the story is well written and I enjoyed it, but IMO it didn't have that it factor that the other Beautiful/Maddox books had.
The worst part of it is, I think this book is trying to backtrack to tie threads to "Walking Disaster" and "Beautiful Oblivion," along with making more diversified strides (lead character is Japanese heritage), but it's singing the same old song as her other narratives with threadbare conflict and characterization.
(hide spoiler)] But I think you guys probably saw that one coming.Second plot point: The idea that Thomas is trying to keep his little brother Travis Maddox out of jail.
This probably Jamie McGuire's strongest novel that I've read. I really enjoyed it, and I love the characters.
Title: Beautiuful RedemptionSeries: The Maddox Brothers #2Author: Jamie McGuireRelease Date:  January 27, 2015Rating: 3 starsCliffhanger:. No HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes (hide spoiler)]Jamie McGuire and her Maddox boys… oh don’t they all make me tremble!Travis made me batshit crazy and feeling hangover. Trenton made me swoon and laugh. Thomas was definitely sexy, demanding and love worthy. Every brother is different and very complex character; it’s hard not to fall in love with them. Yet somehow,
No HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes  (hide spoiler)]Jamie McGuire and her Maddox boys… oh don’t they all make me tremble!Travis made me batshit crazy and feeling hangover.
Beautiful Redemption turned out to be one of those books you read to nicely pass the time while waiting for the ‘awesome’ books to come out.
You like the book but no matter how much you wish you had you don’t love it with all your heart.
Who knows, maybe we will never get another Beautiful Disaster worthy story from Jamie McGuire.
However, I am still looking forward to another books in the Maddox Brothers series.
But what if he didn't love you, first?“If I were going to give you my future, I’d need you to move on from the past.”This book is Thomas's, he is the oldest of the Maddox brothers.
I really enjoyed Thomas Maddox's book better than Trenton's but not by much.
Thomas has been kind of a mystery thus far and the more I learned about him the more I loved him!
“I loved her first,” Thomas said.
Maybe I wasn’t the first woman he’d loved, and maybe the kind of love a Maddox man felt lasted forever, but I needed him, too.
Of course, Thomas' family doesn't know he's an undecovered agent, no one but his ex Camille, so when he has to go Travis and Abby's marriage ceremony and has to take Liis as a back up things get all messed up.
The Thomas who looks after Liis and is trying his damn best to take care of Travis and is as well still hurting over Camille and the hurt he caused to Trent is too killing him.
Here we go...I was probably among first hundred people who read and loved Beautiful Disaster, before whole "new adult wave" and x-number of Travis Maddox rip-offs.
Yes, I did read all sequels because, let's be honest here - all of us have that one series we keep reading no matter the fact that it's not good as the "original" story.
So, what happened with Beautiful Redemption?At first, I was excited because, finally, setting of the story is not college or underground fighting circles, characters are older and it looked as if it would have more suspense elements.
YESSS! Bring it already! And this would better answer those questions left unanswered in Beautiful Oblivion. Or else.
♦ ETA: kindle freebie 4/2/17https://www.amazon.com/Beautiful-Rede...3.5 ★'sTwo FBI agents, each wanting something else.
Let me just start out saying that I like Thomas, I really do...how can you not?
I just wanted to shake Liis and hug her at the same time.
And ugh, gross Jackson...did anybody really think he was a winner?
Of course, they stuck their toes in it right from the start and they both want more.
And then they had to get mean about it...why??
I'm guessing Taylor's book is next since he was the more featured brother but we'll see.
3.5-4 Stars!(BR With Sharon, Patty & Tiffany)  Liis Lindy is a beautiful Irish/Japanese woman wanting to start over. After breaking off her engagement, Liis moves thousands of miles away from home to Midtown in San Diego. Wanting a fresh start, Liis jumps at the chance to relocate from Chicago. Liis is a language expert/intelligence analyst for the FBI. Needing a break from unpacking, Liis heads out to a local bar called Cutter's Pub to relax & unwind. She meets a sexy stranger, & ha
When Liis reports for her first day on the job, she is stunned to find her new boss is none other than the man currently staring in all her dirtiest fantasies, her yummy one night stand.
Her new hard ass boss is Thomas Maddox.
Liis's job is her life, so she works really hard to forget about her amazing night with Thomas, but Thomas doesn't make it easy for her.
Thomas had sworn off women after being hurt by his ex Camille, but he can't help how bad he wants Liis.
FREE on Amazon US today (4/8/2017)Stand-alone book 2.FREE: https://www.amazon.com/Beautiful-Rede...BLURB:No-nonsense Liis Lindy is an agent of the FBI. Deciding she is married only to her job, she breaks off her engagement and transfers from Chicago to the field office in San Diego. She loves her desk. She is committed to her laptop. She dreams of promotions and shaking hands with the director after cracking an impossible case. Special Agent in Charge Thomas Maddox is arrogant, unforgiving, and
FREE on Amazon US today (4/8/2017)Stand-alone book 2.FREE: https://www.amazon.com/Beautiful-Rede...BLURB:No-nonsense Liis Lindy is an agent of the FBI.
Special Agent in Charge Thomas Maddox is arrogant, unforgiving, and ruthless.
Younger brother Travis is faced with prison time for his involvement in a basement fire that killed dozens of college students, and the media want a conviction.
In a deal that will spare his brother, Thomas has agreed to recruit Travis into the FBI.
Liis is stubborn, defiant, and yet somehow softens Thomas’s rough edges, making her the perfect agent to accompany him to the ceremony.
I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 600 books)https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...
I did enjoy Thomas Maddox ‘s book better than Trenton’s but I’m finding the heroines in this series to really annoy me.
In this story, Liis really got on my every last nerve.
It got old fast, and her constant insecurities regarding Thomas’s ex was tiresome too.
I find that all the Maddox guys are so sweet but their taste in women needs major work!I would have loved to see more interaction with the brothers as that is where this series could really shine.
Hopefully book three will have a way better heroine!!!
YAY!! It's T.J. or Thomas Maddox's story!! Woohoo!!
♥ ♥ ♥  THOMAS MADDOX - FBI  ♥ ♥ ♥Ok - I was really looking forward to reading this book.
We're in an FBI office for 80% of the book and that should make this a bit of a romantic suspence thing at least - but there was nothing suspensy about it - maybe the last few pages.
I loved Thomas and Liis and I liked that Jamie was a bit more adventurous in her sexiness.
It was an ok story - I read it in one night - I really liked it - but just like with Trent's book, I was expecting something more :/
Ever since Jamie McGuire first announced she planned on doing a Maddox Brothers spinoff series, I wanted Thomas.
I even remember voting on Jamie’s Facebook page (way back when) for which Maddox brother she should do first.
Each piece perfectly linked by this story.I found this fascinating.
The author intricately wove, and seamlessly connected Beautiful Redemption with the entire Beautiful Disaster/Maddox Brothers series.
(Enters Thomas)I think Thomas’s character may be the most compound of all the Maddox brothers.
Jamie McGuire knows how to write tension; it ‘s something that bleeds from every single page, of every book she writes.
We meet him first in Beautiful Oblivion (view spoiler)[when we find out Thomas is really TJ, Cami's other love interest.
(hide spoiler)] It has been about a year since the end of Beautiful Oblivion and Thomas has been keeping a secret from his family.
I love Thomas, I really wanted to read his story of redemption after Beautiful Oblivion, but I really did not like Liis very much.
Thomas is still trying to get over his first love and Liis seems to be struggling with insecurities.
To me, this wasn't enjoyable angst, just annoying angst.Maybe, but we're the same, Liis.
I loved this book so much! It's my fav so far in the series. I loved Liis. I loved Thomas. Together they were perfect. I LOVE THE MADDOX BROTHERSNEW BOOK, OH YEAHMORE GIFS TO DESCRIBE MY EXCITEMENT ME WAITING FOR THE RELEASE DATE LIKE
Hola, me llamó Gliré y soy adicta a los libros malos.*todos responden*: ¡Hola, Gliré!Sé que aceptar que tengo un problema es el primer paso, así que aquí estoy hoy, ante ustedes, para admitir que he lastimado a muchas personas por culpa de esta adicción: - A mis amigos, cuyas recomendaciones de libros dejo de lado para dedicar más tiempo a leer libros malos.
- A mi misma, desperdiciando el poco tiempo libre que tengo para leer en esta clase de libros.Mi masoquismo no tiene limites y no sé como arreglarlo.
Y a pesar de todo no creo que pueda salir de este vicio, pero no me juzguen amigos, recuerden...
I love it, but….Yes, I love it, I mean, it’s a Maddox, it’s a Jamie’s book, it’s a REDEMPTION - Now I understand the name of Beautiful Oblivion and of course the name of Beautiful Redemption -, but…. I was expecting this book eagerly. Thomas was a total mystery to me after reading Beautiful Oblivion, and I needed to know his story, why he did what he did and I wanted his HEA so badly! And I got it. This book, Beautiful Redemption, was awesome but it didn't give me everything I needed of Thomas.
Thomas was a total mystery to me after reading Beautiful Oblivion, and I needed to know his story, why he did what he did and I wanted his HEA so badly!
I wonder what would have happened if Thomas would have met first Liis before dating Camille?
The plot is more mature, so as the characters - despite their stubbornness of Thomas and Liis, ugh, that was frustrating - but there are so many blanks in this story.
I will recommend this book always, it’s really good, I love it, but I have to be honest: Jamie McGuire could have done better for Thomas and Liis’s story.
She's married to her work and won't let a relationship distract her from her career aspirations.Looking for a distraction, Liis takes a handsome stranger home from her new neighborhood bar for a single night of mind-blowing sex.
She bagged the boss, Assistant Special Agent In Charge, Thomas Maddox.What follows is a fun, angsty and entertaining love story.
Yet, the emotional hang-ups of Thomas and Liis added enough drama and turmoil to keep the story interesting.
We're reunited with the rest of the Maddox clan, as Thomas and Liis work to keep Travis out of jail.The supporting characters were great as well.
I LOVED Beautiful Disaster...it was one of my all time favorite reads.
My issues stem from the fact that I was so severely tainted with Trent and dreadful Cami's story, it ruined the whole "beautiful" experience.
Cami is a constant presence throughout this story.
I was hoping BR would move beyond and give this series a fresh start and Thomas his own love story.
That was not the case and unfortunately, Thomas repeatedly admits he's still in love with her throughout all of this read.
There was just no convincing me that he had moved beyond the hurt, the love and his desire for Cami.
I really really liked this book. Which makes me very happy because I did not like Beautiful Oblivion much at all. I thought Trent was very boring. But Thomas? OMG I can't believe I'm about to say this but I almost like him more than Travis!! I thought Liis was a great love for Thomas but she started to annoy me when she CONSTANTLY accused Thomas of still loving his ex. I'm so excited to love Jaime McGuire's books again and can't wait to start reading Beautiful Sacrifice!
NO NO NO Y NO.
Finora non mi ha mai deluso,anzi, grazie ai miei adorati fratelli Maddox, il mio cuore è volato in alto fino alle stelle e ancora non si degna di tornare sulla Terra e lo capisco, lo capisco molto bene!Nuovo libro, nuova avventura, nuovo Maddox!
Ma ora Thomas non è più un ragazzo, è un uomo, un uomo che per ragioni di lavoro ha lasciato alle spalle il suo paese natale, ma ha la sua famiglia sempre nel cuore.
E da Maddox, basta una sola parola sussurrata per far volare il mio cuore alle stelle!
