https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253000.The_Legend_of_the_Bluebonnet
Another one we had to read for school but we really liked this one.
We've read several by Tomie dePaola in the past and love his books.
An educational story about giving up something important to you for those that you love, it shows that even children have the power to be brave.
My 5 yr old loved this story and so did I.
Not only the moral lesson here, but there's lots of learning about the American Indian culture.
We learned about tipi's (how they spell it in the book), and pow-wow's, and shaman's.
Overall a great addition to any children's library.
This is the native American origin story of the famous Texas bluebonnets.Being as its bluebonnet season right now here in south Texas, I thought this would be a fun read for my son. Unfortunately, it was a little over his head. This was the first he was hearing of native culture and he didn't understand the notions of famine or sacrifice. I don't think there's anything wrong with the story, though, and this served as a good introduction for those topics.
While I love all of Tomie dePaola's books, this is one of my all-time favorites.
It is the story of a little girl who (spoiler alert) gives up her favorite -- and only -- possession to save the life of her people.
Because of the importance of her sacrifice, as well as because children can relate to it, I liked to use this story to teach students about the meaning of sacrificial giving.
It reminds me of the story of the poor widow's mite.
(Luke 21:1-4) As with all of dePaola's books, there are the beautiful characteristic illustrations, simple, straightforward text and explanatory author's note at the end.
Children who are used to stories with modern day settings or lots of action may not know what to think about this book. If they have a little background, about lupine or Texas or any Native American tribe, they may have an easier time connecting. And ideally, if books such as this are read to children from a young age, they will more readily appreciate Native American cultures.
Great for lesson on myth and cultural phenomenon. TEKS 5.3
I thought this book "The Legend of The Bluebonnet" by Tomie dePaola was very good.
The spirits blessed the land in return and the land is known today as Texas.
As a student I thought the book was interesting, not only because of the story line but because of the culture behind it.
I thought that the story was sad but interesting.
A girl loses her family and all she has left of them is a doll, but she sacrifices the doll to the spirits.
This land is known today as Texas.
Beautiful story about the miracle a little girl's sacrifice brings.
Text-to-TextIn my reading of 'The Legend of the Indian Paintbrush' I discovered that Tomie dePaola wrote other flower legend books, including this 'Legend of the Bluebonnet'. Both books are obviously of the same author, who is also the illustrator. Both books have the same soft, warm illustrations throughout and look very much alike, especially as they are both about Native Americans and the same era/environment. Both are legends of how flowers came to be and the stories of healing/discovery/inspiration of the people, including Shaman and Great Spirits. The Indian Paintbrush flower is of Wyoming and the Bluebonnet is of Texas.
One of my absolute favorite books! The courage that one little girl showed to help her people is amazing!
When the Shaman come down from the mountains and tell the People that they must make a burnt sacrifice of the most prized possession, She-Who-Is-Alone makes the biggest sacrifice of all the People in order to end the drought and famine.Identify the characteristics from the text that support the specific genre:This is a legend told about great sacrifices and how the bluebonnets came to Texas.
There is a moral in the story about making great sacrifices in order to save others.
The Legend of the Bluebonnet is presented in a sensitive way, and it is an empowering story about sacrifice to save the ones you love.
The legend of the bluebonnet is the courageous story of a young Comanche girl named, She-Who-Is-Alone, and her selfless act of saving her people from famine and drought.
The Shaman speaks to the Great Spirits and they instruct him to offer a sacrifice, a burnt offering of their most valued possession, so the land may become fruitful again.
To remember the sacrifice of young She-Who-Is-Alone, the Great Spirits cover the hills and valleys of Texas every Spring with this beautiful blue flower.
Although they may not feel important at times, or worthy of contribution, the actions of young people are held with considerable value in our society.
My daughter has since asked me to re-read this story twice.
After the second time, she said she had to pray, and I heard her telling God that she would not be sacrificing her very special lovey Pooh Bear, but only, she insisted, because she thinks her kids might want it someday, and she's going to give it to her kids, and then they can choose to give it up if they want.
I told her God wasn't asking for her Pooh Bear, and she seemed much relieved.
Tomie DePaolo is the author and illustrator of one of my favorite books The Legend of the Indian Paintbrush, so when I saw that I had another book by him sitting on my shelf I had to check it out.The illustrations of his books are always gorgeous and this is no different.
The story itself tells of the selfless story of the Native American origins of the bluebonnet, and centers around a little Comanche girl as she watches her tribe suffer from the lack of rain.The beautiful tale is one of courage and willing sacrifice, and combined with the wonderful illustrations makes this a must for any child’s growing library.
There was a time when I had an intense interest in all things Native American and, in response, I think my parents bought this book for me.
To date, I've probably read it about 100 times.
The writing is simple bordering austere yet ultimately uplifting.
The illustrations are lovely to look at and a true representation of De Paola's illustration style.
She-Who-Is-Alone is one of my favorite literary heroines of all time.
Her selflessness always makes me cry, which can be problematic when reading this book aloud to an audience.
But I do it anyway, because the story is just too good to pass up.
Genre: Traditional LiteratureAwards: NoneGrade level: K-2I would use this book in my classroom while learning about flowers or about the Native American culture. After reading the book to my class I would have them cut out bluebonnet flowers and have them write their most prized possession on the flower. Then hang them up around the classroom. This book is important because it teaches students about sacrifice and the Native American culture.
A little girl gives up her most precious possession to help end her tribe's suffering.She is rewarded with blue flowers growing all around her.
Your People are dying, too,” The long line of dancers sang.Brief Book Summary (2-3 sentences in your own words): The Comanche People are experiencing a drought and a famine and in order to fix the Earth they must burn their most prized possession.
Addressing important issues such as family, community and nature, this book is sure to be enjoyed by all, but is especially intended for six to eight year olds.Response to Two Professional Reviews (3-4 sentences in your own words)I agree with these reviews that the book holds true to legend and the culture of the Comanche people.
dePaola himself says, in the author's note, that he combined all the individual spirits honored by Comanche into a single Great Spirits reference and sends the shaman to pray to them all.
Droughts are problematic for nomads, but if it truly brought famine then they would load up and move rather than let "The People" starve.
Note the poem just says "Indian" (a clue in itself that perhaps this is not authentic Native tradition but may have been a fireside tale for settlers).
Because of course a Comanche girl could not have done this if she didn't arrive until 17XX.
This is a book about the Comanche people who call to the spirits to ask for a healing from the drought they are in.
She holds on tight to a warrior doll that her mother made her; her mother and the rest of her family had passed away due to the famine and the doll helped her to remember them.
An educator could ask her students what their most prized possession is and if they would give it up for a greater cause, teaching them generosity.
They could even make their own "warrior doll" and write in their reading response journal about it.
The students or others could learn that sacrificing something could help others.
It could also show that suddenly being an only child doesn't mean you are alone, but there are people willing to care for you.
It's like a family knows other family members and friends, so once they know what has happened and knowing that family has an only child, they will volunteer to care for that child.
This book also involves with a bit of like spiritual rituals and gods, but it's alright to know this and they could also learn the native indian culture.
This book gives children a chance to learn about another culture. I think books like this are some of the most important kinds for children to hear. The legend itself is a lesson about selflessness and caring for the people who care for you. I also love the authors notes at the end. He talks about the flower and about researching the customs of the Comanche and what the legend means to the author. This book is would make for a great elementary school lesson.
A drought and famine cause the very young and very old to die. One child, She-Who-Is-Alone is one of the only people who survived through the famine. As everyone is sleeping one night, She-Who-Is-Alone tries to figure out what needs to be done to make the Great Spirits bring rain to their land again. She-Who-Is-Alone sacrifices her doll and turns the land beautiful again. She-Who-Is-Alone is given a new name and people praise her for what she has done.
So I am torn when it comes to the book. It is well-written and old enough to be a classic, but it feels like appropriation to me rather than being told in the original words of the tale tellers, and feels really sad for a kid's book. The art also feels more stereotypical rather than authentic, but it is a well put together picture book just the same though I can't truly recommend it on some levels.
The Legend of the Bluebonnet is a retelling of a native american folktale. It takes place in Texas, but exposes students to stories from traditions that may be different than their own. The main character's family has died before the beginning of the story and by the end she is one of the most beloved people in her village, so this may appeal to some students who may have a nontraditional family background.
It is a beautiful and long story. Children will learn about who are the American Indians, and pray and sacrifices to the spirits is one of their culture. Other is bluebonnet, is the state flower of Texas. Although it is a long story, it is easy to understand. This book is good for age four and above.
A terrible drought is plaguing the land. In despair, a little girl sacrifices her greatest possession, her favorite doll. In return, the Great Spirit ends the drought (and brings an even more beautiful gift in return). Tomie dePaola proves once again why he is considered one of the greatest children's authors/illustrators.
This is a lovely, lovely book. My son read it for a First Grade class last year, and it might have been a little advanced for him then. But now, it is perfect for him. In fact, it is just perfect.
The illustrations were beautiful and the story is great for children who are 6-8 years old. It's a wonderful story which teaches about making sacrifices and being selfless. I really enjoyed this book.
A little girl sees her people are in trouble due to a famine. She makes a big sacrifice to save her land by sacrificing her doll to the earth. This book is highlights culture and sacrifice very well written.
