https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117039.Hitler_s_Second_Book
It is amazing to see the power and insanity that encumbered this man. To say he was a genius is an understatement. An evil genius, but a genius nevertheless
I didn't read the German Jewish historian Gerhard Weinberg Edition which is listed above, but I did read the Arthur Kemp translation which is only 184 pages in length, rather than the 340 pages in the Weinberg translation.Once you read a few books on the real Adolf Hitler, you finally come to the realization that we have been lied to by the (((tribe))) who controls the media here in the USA, and most likely they also own the media in most other countries.
It led me to further investigate this man who even President Kennedy considered him a man that the passing of time and the truth would label him "a great man." When I found out he had written a second book that at the time was unpublished, it became a MUST READ!
After finishing this edition which is the longer, more in-depth edition of the translations of the book, my thinking, views, and feelings about Hitler were changed once and for all and I fully realized how much I and we, collectively have been lied to about this man.
author originally wanted to write a multi-volume serial fantasy, like Tolkien or George Martin, but was discouraged by early bad reviews of the first volume. persistent scholars have done everyone the favor of uncovering this conclusion to the thrilling saga commenced in Mein Kampf.
Unpublished. Probably unpublished because it was intended as propaganda for rallying Germany towards war, but events in Europe went faster than even Hitler had imagined.
dis book was also da shizzle!
A vast majority of the book was very boring.
I even skipped the last two chapters on England and Italy because he had already ranted a lot about the two countries through most of the book, and I already knew it was going to be more of the same stuff.Mein Kampf is a much more interesting book, and more importantly, it was published during Hitler's life and with his permission.
This book, however, was published a couple of years after his death.
Just as internationalism damages and thereby weakens the existing racial value, and just as democracy destroys personal qualities, so pacifism disables the natural powers of a people's self-preservation.''The average person has the most fear of death and in reality thinks most rarely about it.
The most interesting thing about this book is Hitler's views on foreign policy. I think it is easy to make comparisons between his lust for land and the paranoia the German leadership felt about being encircled by enemies before World War One. His views on the German "Folk" and national identity are also somewhat interesting. Since I didn't know about this book it was worth looking into for context regarding World War Two. My main question is regarding its authenticity, but that is my own personal concern. It is consistent with Mein Kampf.
My review is based solely on this books value as a work of historical insight.
Somewhere in my mind, I think this is a farce. I don't believe Hitler wrote a second book.
There has been some debate whether or not this book is an artifact of history or a forged document. While I do not know for sure, the language of the book sounds similar to Hitler's famous document, the first Mein Kampf, while the foreign policy and alliance building he lays out in this book seems so similar to German's actions during WWII that I would not be surprised if this document was fake.
At least this one's a bit better then Mein Kampf.
cbcvv
Wanting to know what the next move by Goodread PTB may be as they are closely following H's path.
I got about a quarter of way through this before stopping it. The book just didn't do it for me, maybe reading his actually 1st book might help make this more enticing.
Hitler's Second Book: The Unpublished Sequel to Mein Kampf (Bk. 2) by Gerhard L. Weinberg (2003)
