https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17380041-longbourn
I even know a few secrets about the housekeeper that would have surprised Miss Austen.And this is where the two novels diverge -- Jo Baker has created full characters out of the servants, who are almost invisible in P&P.
I liked having the servant's perspective on this well-known plot line -- it was a good reminder of how many people were actually affected by Mr. Bennet's lack of a male heir.The story picks up quickly when a new footman named James Smith is hired.
I worked as a live-in domestic myself, and I'm constantly thinking about the servants who made those leisured lives possible.So I was excited to read Longbourn, a retelling of Pride & Prejudice from the vantage point of one of the Bennet's housemaids.
I love that.This very Mrs. Hill -- overworked, miserable, a character who seems to exist only to be taken advantage of -- is the one who decides near the end of the book that, really, there's not much difference between living as a servant and being a genteel lady.
Unfortunately I found this to be a stuffy contemporary literary novel in historical clothing, with none of the brio of Austen's own style and little insight to contribute about the characters or story of Pride and Prejudice.There's not much logic in how the plot of this book fits in with the above-stairs developments of Pride and Prejudice.
Unlike Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead which you could superficially say interacts with Hamlet the same way this wants to with P&P, this book doesn't provide us with any cleverly interlocking alternate explanations, new plot twists, thematic extension, or characterization.Baker tries too hard to convince us of her commitment to gritty historical realism; her frequent mentions of chamberpots, menstruation, mud, etc.
Don't pick this book up wanting to swoon over Elizabeth and Darcy, or expecting the narrative focus to be on the story Austen told in P&P.
They clipped past the orchard, in profile and oblivious to the housemaids: Sarah felt herself fade.
It's the world of Austen made real, Austen in context, with all the mud and blood and shit that comes with that.
I didn't expect to feel so strongly about Longbourn when I first picked it up...
but it's far and away one of the best books I've read in the past year.
There is nothing of the elegance of Downton Abbey, and a Pride and Prejudice that we do not recognize.The story takes place almost entirely belowstairs at Longbourn, domain of the long-suffering Mrs. Hill; the butler, Mr. Hill; the two maidservants, Sarah and Polly; and the footman, James.
If Ms. Baker truly wanted to tell the story of the servants of Pride and Prejudice—and link it to the wildly popular Downton Abbey—it would have been better to give the Bennets a fuller complement of servants.

But I am fascinated with Jane Austen and having recently read A.A. Milne's superlative stage play Miss Elizabeth Bennet, I felt I would like to read more books directly descended from Pride and Prejudice.
After Colin Firth is it possible to have too much Darcy?
Is it possible to have too much chocolate?
Is it possible to have too much candy floss?
DNF.A note on the writing.
It wasn't Jane Austen.
It wasn't A.A. Milne.
But it was perfectly one-note, shallow, clear and descriptive and left me in no doubt that what I saw was what I got.
First of all, technically, this is a Pride and Prejudice retelling from the point of view of the Longbourn servants.
Second, there's a really long flashback sequence about war, which has nothing to do with Pride and Prejudice at all.
If you want to write about the horrors of war, that's fine, but don't just say it's a Pride and Prejudice retelling to increase your audience.
Third, for someone who says she loves Pride and Prejudice, the author sure spends a lot of time trying to convince readers that all of those beloved characters are d-bags.
I adore Jane Austen, and I was dreading reading this take on Pride & Prejudice from the servants' point of view.
I thought it was a crass cash-grab on Baker's part, and that I'd spend the entire novel longing to reread P & P.
I got entirely wrapped up in the story of Sarah, a servant at Longbourn, and felt impatient even with brief mentions of favorite characters (Jane, Elizabeth), who seemed selfish, boring, and clueless because of their wealth.
Crucially, this novel does NOT feel like a gimmick; it's beautiful and literary, and stands on its own--non-fans of Austen will love it too, I think.
In the Author’s Note at the end of Longbourn, Jo Baker writes, One final note: in Pride and Prejudice the footman appears just once in the text, when he delivers a note to Jane (page 31 of Volume One, in my Penguin Classics edition).
I’m not convinced that anyone who has read Pride and Prejudice can accurately assess whether Longbourn could stand on its own, a story complete.
It’s somewhere around the time Wickham ventures into the kitchen to leer at Polly and we see each servant’s response to his trespass that we fully, finally, enter the world of distinct, complete characters who have more to offer than chilblains and chamber pots.
Attention anyone who wants to think of Jane Austenland as pretty-pretty with no blood, sweat, sex (in any form at all) and magical elves to do the housework:AVOID THIS BOOKStill with me?This book includes discussions of soiled diapers and menstrual napkins--well,no washing machines, let alone Pampers or Tampax!
And there is a mention of underarm hair, something which clearly should shock any modern man or woman of "normal" proclivities.Speaking of which, there are sexual practices mentioned in this book that include  homosexuality (nothing explicit), masturbation (again, no real details) and out of wedlock sex.This last horror can apparently can produce {gasp!}PREGNANCY!
When I first heard about Longbourn - a kind of Downton Abbey meets Pride and Prejudice, telling the stories of the staff serving The Bennet family - I was very excited and couldn't wait to start reading.
Not only does it not capture the essence of Pride and Prejudice, but it actually tries to rewrite the much-loved characters and their history.
But Longbourn just made me a little frustrated and angry and includes none of the reasons why Pride and Prejudiece is such a timeless classic and has such an army of fans.
Jo Baker provides readers with a fresh take on the well loved story of "Pride and Prejudice" by giving us the story of those that worked as servants at Longbourn.
Baker's story provides readers with a broader view of what exactly was going on in English society during the events of the original Pride and Prejudice story.
As well, it stands to reason that what we loved so much about Jane Austen's Elizabeth Bennett is not going to seem quite as endearing to the servants of Longbourn.
I also enjoyed the first part; but after a while, the story started to drag on and on, and I started to not see the point of it anymore.•Some of the things that happen are completely -or almost- inconsequential.
The thing is, sometimes the focus shifts, at length and in detail, to the Bennets themselves, which, I think, was rather useless if our concern is the below-stairs world.
When I started the book, knowing it was about the lives of the servant of Longbourn, I imagined something like this, I think, a plot like the one hidden in Mrs Hill's past.
"Work," the maid answers.I was worried that I wasn't going to be able to keep up with the characters in LONGBOURN without having a re-read of Pride and Prejudice, but luckily there wasn't a need...
Sarah misses the life she had while her parents were still alive, and longs to see the world outside of LONGBOURN someday.Mrs Hill- A loyal housekeeper charged with the day-to-day running of the household, who keeps a watchful eye on all the goings on in the Bennet's household.
Mr Hill- The aging butler who isn't able to fulfill his duties quite as much as he used to when he was a younger man.Polly- The youngest female servant.
Dirty linen might seem like a unsavory topic in a novel set in Regency England, but when the linen belongs to the Bennet family from Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice it makes for good reading.
By modern standards this might seem like a excessive number of servants, but in Nineteenth Century England, five menstruating daughters, not to mention a gaggle of Gardner cousins foisted on the Bennet's for weeks at a time, produce a mountain of laundry for the two beleaguered maids.
The swearing is totally out of place, the liberties taken with the characters from P&P are unbelievably awful (sorry) basically feels like Jo Baker is trying desperately to be controversial but it doesn't work.
The main character is very likeable and if this had been a stand alone novel about servants at the time (minus the sweating and poo) it could have worked.
The pretty descriptions of little details such as the wind and flowers seem to have been shoehorned in to make the novel Have a more thoughtful feel.
This is an historical novel, a well crafted one, that gives Austen's original a context.
It gives life and personality to the nameless, silent cast who ensure that the untidy Lydia is presentable at Meryton, who ensure that food is on the table when Bingley comes to visit, who wait in the rain to bring the ladies home after a ball.
It adds another dimension to our knowledge about the Bennet household and the wider world in which they live.
Sarah loses her family before she is added to the Longbourn staff, and then finds herself shunted between households as she seeks to fashion her own life.
I loved this book - a great retelling, a detailed and atmospheric historical novel, with engaging characters and a brilliant plot. I would highly recommend.
We love to read what happens to Elizabeth and Darcy, whether it's her doughty fight against the undead or how they deal with truly-dead bodies at Pemberley.This book would stand with the best of them.
But this book goes beyond great fan fiction, and here's why:It takes place mostly during the same time period as P&P, but downstairs: it's about the servants.
Jo Baker gives us the struggle, toil, and worry of people with heart, soul, and mind, in a society where even our beloved Elizabeth finds them almost invisible.The human stories are the heart of the book.

I enjoyed seeing what a servant's day would be like, and the "behind-the-scenes" look at a rich family's life.
I liked Sarah as a character and it was easy to root for her.The bad: Lots of yucky/evil things were discussed, and although they generally weren't described in gory detail (thank you), it was just too much.The ugly: I understand that servants and soldiers had to deal with dirty and scary things, I really do, and I understand that Jane Austen pretty much ignored all of that.
Conclusions: I honestly wish that I hadn't read this.
TYPE OF AUSTENESQUE NOVEL: Minor Character, RetellingTIME FRAME: Covers the same timespan as Pride and Prejudice with a couple of months afterMAIN CHARACTERS: Sarah (maid), Polly (younger maid), Mr. and Mrs. Hill (butler and housekeeper), James Smith (new, mysterious footman), Ptolemy Bingley (footman at Netherfield)WHY I WANTED TO READ THIS NOVEL: This book was described by many as a cross between Pride and Prejudice and Downton Abbey...enough said!
I would have loved to have spent more time with her, seen more of the story from her perspective, and learn more of her thoughts and emotions.WHAT I WASN'T TOO FOND OF:The Portrayal of Elizabeth Bennet: I'm sure growing up with servants to take care of all your needs makes one become accustomed to their services and compliance.
Have you ever thought an author was a good writer, but you didn't like the story they were telling?
The author is good at writing (except for some places that had lengthy and very detailed descriptions.
That's when I want all the nitty gritty details - of the actual events.)I don't like how she made the Bennett family seem shallow and ...
It just seed like the author wants to knock down Austen fans' love for this story.
She wanted to put the harsh realities in there and make sure that we understand that they had people slaving away for them and that the Bennett's didn't take much notice, except for Jane, who was always very kind, gentle and sweet.
But, Jo Baker wanted to sell books so she decided to drag Jane Austen into it.PRIDE & PREJUDICE is my all time favorite book and because of that I never should have picked LONGBOURN up, but my curiosity got the best of me.
I felt that Jo Baker’s book was set up to make the problems of the Bennet family seem silly and frivolous.I am sure that the sometimes silly and inappropriate behaviors of the Bennet family could make them discourteous or even disrespectful to their servants, but Jo Bakers take does not feel like an Austentale.Almost nothing from the PRIDE & PREJUDICE plot has any real bearings on the tale of LONBOURN which brings me back to my original idea.
And that includes Jo Baker.The most believable bit in the book was touted in the blurb, the bit about Elizabeth's famous petticoat being six inches deep in mud, which made extra work for the maids.But otherwise the well-known characters are out of focus.
I found the most believable moment when Mrs. Hill was anxious to please Mr. Collins, the future landlord.
While an interesting character, he was not at all the socially awkward, somewhat Aspie Collins of Austen's work.
Baker could as easily have make up a gentry family for her tale about hard-working servants and their lives as hidden from their masters.
The book does have many gorgeous lines.
Lines of wisdom that sometimes express views I share, but I certainly do not agree with the line: (view spoiler)["No matter how they get there, the end was all the same." This is about Mrs. Hill and whether she would have rather lived her life differently.
(hide spoiler)] No, I simply cannot award two stars to a book I did not enjoy.
"Pretty lines", do not make a book.
It is just that the intonation is so soft and lyrical, as are many of the lines, that the plot of the story gets smothered.
Did you ever wonder – when reading Pride & Prejudice - about the lives of the servants toiling away quietly downstairs?
Jo Baker did wonder, however, and from that imagining has spun a beautiful, intense, heart-wrenching tale.
Much as I love Jane Austen, I always wondered why we heard nothing of the political turmoil of her times, nothing about the impassioned debate over slavery, nothing about the Napoleonic wars, nothing about the Luddites and the costs of the Industrial Revolution.
Jo Baker has attempted to engage with many of these gaping holes in Jane Austen’s world, and has achieved a work of great beauty and serious intent.
I promoted this book during summer presentations, in spite of the fact I've grown skeptical of any work that claims to reinvent another narrative -- most especially when that involves Austen.
That turned out to be overly optimistic.Not only is this book wildly uneven and often plodding, it doesn't offer an interesting story -- neither in the new characters nor in the glimpses of Austen's created world.
As a matter of fact, the author seems to have delighted in undoing several of those characters, and all without any wit or style.I have no doubt it will do well, especially with the "Pride and Prejudice meets Downton Abbey" label.
Late enough to recognize the constriction of that country life, the importance of the sudden appearance of a wealthy bachelor, the wisdom in making the most of such serendipitous opportunities and, to my dark amusement, the many maternal similarities between Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Kardashian.
Longbourn marches us straight down to the servants' domain and locks us into the imprisoned souls of those who kept the household running.Central to the story is Sarah, a young maid, orphaned and absorbed into the staff of Mrs. Hill, whose day begins at the crack of dawn pumping and transporting water from the well, chilblains weeping with the effort.
