https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298523.The_White_Stag
I am slowly losing any confidence I had in the reviews for books on goodreads. A masterpiece like this or Grendel by John Gardner receive mediocre ratings, while much lesser works get a lot of hype. If anyone likes epics, folklore, mythology, and the sacred past, please pick up this book. It is a quick read, but great for young and old.
Too much accuracy!" With words to this effect, Kate Seredy launches into the most TOTALLY METAL Newbery winner of all time.
For those of you who don't know, the plot goes like this: Mighty Nimrod (from the Bible) worships a pagan deity I've never heard of.
Ultimately, the line of Nimrod gives birth to Attila, who teams up with magical animals on a quest for the promised land.You would think that a children's book would gloss over the massive slaughter that Attila perpetrated on Europe, but, you'd be wrong!
Winner of the 1938 Newbery, this slim book is a fairy-tale adaptation of Hungarian legend, from the Biblical hunter Nimrod to the historical Attila the Hun, Scourge of God, in four generations.
The miraculous beast of the title inspires the Hun and Magyar tribes (led by the warriors Hunor and Magyar respectively) to head west, looking for a plentiful paradise ringed by mountains promised by Hadur, the war god whose sword Attila is destined to find.This is a bizarre book for children, and a bizarre choice for a children’s award.
There’s nothing wrong with that per se, but it’s frankly unworkable as a fairy tale either.
What can I say, folks? Kate Seredy is magical; and never more magical than when she sits down to retell ancient myths and legends of her homeland--Hungary. I want to follow the White Stag westward now, too . . . ever westward, never stopping until we find the promised land cradled between the rivers and the mountains . . . and I ain't even Hungarian. (Eastern European, definitely. Hungarian, no.) Her storytelling is just that powerful. Oh, and the illustrations (as always with Seredy) are GOLD.
I've read and enjoyed Kate Seredy's work in the past, so when I saw a hardcover edition of a title I didn't have online for $3, I hopped on it.
I wasn't quite expecting something like a picture book when I pulled it out of the box, but it's rather like that, though the prose is firmly for older kids.I also didn't read reviews ahead of time.
I expected it to be a culturally rich tale about Hungary's history; instead it is a confusing legend about the Huns and Magyars having pagan origins and marrying wood fairies and so on.
I remember looking at the book primarily for the lovely charcoal drawings but I never read the story.
Well, about 23 years later, I finally get around to actually reading the story.
In "The White Stag," the are still sweeping conquerers, but Attila and his ancestors are cast in a kinder light.
The White Stag is a magical creature that appears every so often to lead their way.
It reads very much like a classic myth, and I think older gradeschool and up would enjoy it, especially if they like fantasy and mythology.
I really was thinking we'd turned a corner on Newbery books I like, but this one was ...
Usually I do that because I like how something was written, or a quote that was used.
Check out the last line of this quote: Those who want to hear the voice of pagan gods in wind and thunder, who want to see fairies dance in the moonlight, who can believe that faith can move mountains, can follow the thread on the pages of this book.
The White Stag was...
OK, I guess?
I applaud Kate Seredy for writing so well in English (a friend mentioned that English isn't her first language) and for her beautiful drawings.
Everything else in the book was just strange.
I enjoy hearing about the mythology of other cultures (see the brilliant 1941 medalist Call It Courage and its re-telling of a Polynesian tale), but I just couldn't follow what I was reading here.
It was just one random thing after another; Nimrod dies, his sons see this white stag and their horses start flying to chase after it, the sons marry these ethereal fairy women, and so on.
As I mentioned, the descriptions and illustrations are lovely.
A four-part generational legend of the journey of the Huns and Magyars into/across Europe, beginning with Nimrod and ending with Attila and the achieving of the Promised Land. A solid work of historical mythology, wrought in quietly assured prose sprinkled with vivid imagery. Looking forward to more of Kate Seredy's work.Not quite four stars, more like a strong 3.5. I didn't find much to invest in, but a keeper for my middle grade shelves nonetheless.
This book is incredibly deserving of its 1938 Newbery Medal.
It's brilliant.
Though it appears to be a children's book, the style is a mature blend of the epic style of Virgil, the wide story arc of the Old Testament, and the legends of the Huns.
The prose reads like poetry, with descriptions that modern authors can only dream of.
And the illustrations are simply amazing.
This is a story to aspire to, but also a story to treasure.
It yearns to be read aloud.
That's all I can say, and my words are woefully inadequate.
Newbery re-read. Basically straight up mythology or I suppose legendary retelling. A short book and definitely not a typical Newbery except for being elsewhere than the United States. Basically the origin of the Huns. It doesn't feel especially reliable, but it does work as mythology. It is readable and interesting, if not especially insightful. A map or two would have been nice. 3.5 of 5.
I didn't read anything about this book before starting to read it. It wasn't at all what I expected based on the cover image and title. Fast paced read, doesn't linger too long over details. I enjoyed the book a lot more than I thought it would. It's a fictional account of the beginnings of the Huns and in particular Attila the Hun. Very interesting, made me want to familiarize myself a bit more with a historical account.
This Newberry winner was not what I expected, but was a refreshingly short, intro to fantasy type book. It wasn't my style, but it was well done.
A historical fantasy, based on Hungarian history, legends, and folklore, this is an adventurous tale of pioneering people, setting off from their homeland in Central Asia to settle a faraway promised land in Central Europe.
Dozens of generations have been telescoped by the author in order to create a more workable plot line that fits into a novella format.
And what a novella it is!
Its enchanting pages feature a biblical warrior-hero, a blind seer, Fair Folk, survival against all odds, and Attila the Hun (who is regarded as a heroic "founding father" of the Hungarian nation).All in all, this is a well-constructed tale, with accompanying dramatic illustrations in black-and-white.
Highly recommended for both history and fantasy fans of all ages!
I read the summary and was so disappointed that it was about Atilla the Hun. The first page was relatable because the character was talking about a book that was all about facts and "as hard as the learned pens of learned historians could make them." I hate books like that!It was a bit confusing and depressing when she pictured the garden and path and the White Stag, and a little girl and her dad who turned out to be her.
The story is based on the author's father's favorite folktale about the history of Hungary, and is not intended as a factual presentation of events.When I was planning my historical fiction reading project, I opted not to include The White Stag, mostly because it spans such a long period of time that it would be hard to fit it into my timeline, but also because it involves magic, and I am focusing on realistic novels.
Seredy warns us in her Foreword that this saga of the Hunnic "migration" to Hungary cannot stand up to "facts and dates." I love a good pageant as much as the next teuton-descendant and I love folktales, but this story is unnecessarily messianic and flies in the face of what little I know about Etsel/Attila.
Aleeta is frightened by the flag with the red eagle on it, but bravely ties her belt to it to show her approval - then goes to give birth to Attila and die in the process.Bendeguz has challenged Hadur, their god, to show ...
If I think of this book as a work of history, or even historical fiction, then I don't much care for it.
But if I pretend that this is a pure myth about some other world, then I quite like the book.
Looked at in the framework of "pure myth", this book works, and works well.
There is a time and a place for facts and history, just as there is a time and place for myth.
All of these reasons help to explain why I like the book a lot more when I think "pretend myth!" rather than "historical myth!"
He is dying and hopes only to live until the day that his sons, both mighty men, return from their hunt of the elusive white stag.As night comes, Nimrod cries out to that most powerful of his gods, Hadur.
Nimrod dies in peace, knowing that his sons, Hunor and Magyar will continue the quest of his people, the quest of the white stag.But will the brothers remain true and pure before Hadur?
These are not historic stories with occasional references to pagan gods / beliefs.
There’s no avoiding it.The White Stag presents a strange syncretism between mostly pagan beliefs and an occasional biblical reference.
First of all, Seredy’s illustrations for The White Stag (are they in the newer editions?
the library gave me a first edition) are some of the most beautiful I’ve ever seen.
Also, this book is HYPER-masculinized.
That would not have sat well with me as a child, and still annoys me as a grown-up.I think another reviewer summed this book up nicely when he calls it “the most TOTALLY METAL Newbery winner of all time.” It absolutely is!
But I don’t think most kids appreciate metal until they’re teenagers, and I’d say the same for this book.
My children, who are very forgiving and love almost everything they read, were completely turned off by the tone of the book.
There are lots of dramatic, flowery language that serves no purpose other than to be dramatic and flowery.
I wanted to completely stop reading it after each nightly reading, but one of my kids has a thing about not finish books, so we pushed on through.
We bought our copy of this book at a second hand store and it had yellowing pages and was starting to come apart.
1937 The White Stag by Kate Seredy(originally Viking Press renewed 1979 Puffin Books)Newberry Award WinnerTraditional LiteratureThis tale of Attila the leader of a nomadic warring tribe in Hungary begins with his grandfather Nimrod.
The father of Attila never shows him any love or compassion so Atilla grows up to be a coldhearted warrior.
The story also has many fantasy elements that to this reader confuse rather than enhance the story.
The story is geared toward upper elementary/middle school students but with all the characters and fantansy involved I found it difficult to find the focus of the story.
It is a truth universally acknowledged that if you are reading through the Newbery winners and comment on the trend of "slice of life stories with wholesome, spunky kids who have episodic adventures," your next book will be a mythic story that glorifies conquest and war.The White Stag is an odd little book.
On the other hand, this is a book about Attila the Hun that celebrates war and conquering new lands (and raising children without love--that was the secret to Attila, btw).The book is also full of striking charcoal drawings that were vaguely reminiscent of several Ayn Rand covers.
I fell in love with this book 50 years ago as an 8 year old girl.
The book opened a door I didn't know was there; a door to the magic of a time and people long gone.
I loved the names I'd never heard before -- Magyar, Nimrod, Attila; the visions appearing in smoke and fire; the sense of a great destiny unfolding; of mysterious rites and vows.
I had absolutely no idea, but I knew I loved it.
I believe this book planted a life-long love of history, other cultures, and of fantasy.
No. Then, it was a magical portal.
This is the most random of all Newberys that I have read.
Although I have long-ago, vague, positive memories of The Good Master, an earlier Kate Seredy Newbery Honor book, it’s hard to imagine this Hungarian mixture of folklore and mythology receiving a children’s literature award.
Attila the Hun’s history and formative years are not topics I’d recommend to my grandchildren, and, as an aside, Seredy’s book is rife with grammatical errors.Her illustrations, however, are incredible; I can see how she deserved a Caldecott Medal for a later book after I saw those in The White Stag.
And…I am glad that the book was short; this 1935 winner again demonstrates how far children’s books have come!
Now that I’ve read it once, I feel like I need to read it again to give the book a fair evaluation.
(But I don't really want to read it again, so...
ay, there's the rub.) I spent the first half of the book struggling to find a direction.
The beauty that surrounds us, and the visions… I'm not a poetic person, and I know this.
I didn't know anything about this book when I read it, so I may have been better served if I'd at least checked the back cover first.
I'm too literal a person, and so reading it was a trip.
At least it was brief.
American publishing must have had an off year in 1938 for this to win the Newbery.
The White Stag is a decidedly odd retelling of history and mythology supplemented with epic drawings.
OK, maybe I shouldn't be so hard on this book, considering the art.
Bulging muscles on both men and beasts, lots of swords and lightning, talons, often all mixed together.
If you've been looking for a children's book that glorifies slaughter, that recommends children be raised with no love, carried naked and unarmed into battle, then this book is for you!

A large part of me wanted to rate this two stars because it didn't do a lot for me. I didn't find the story all that interesting and i'm not sure how well it would connect to kids in this day and age either. However, it is beautifully written and towards the end of the book things picked up a bit. I had always heard of Attila the Hun but never knew anything about him. This book seems to be mostly myth and glorifying legends, but it did make me interested in learning about the historical figure of Attila.
This book was very dream-like... in the way that dreams don't really make sense at all. The only action is when the Huns are on the move, chasing an albino deer. How this book could have won a Newberry award is ridiculous. I love reading historical fiction with the kids, but when the only factual part is the phrase "the Scourge of God", it's hard to label this as historical at all.
