https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47755.A_Gift_of_Magic
This is an older book, but I can't tell you how excited I was to read it once found.
The back cover blurb simply intrigued me - I was into the magic thing as I just came off some other Urban Fantasy, and the thought of the different gifts of dance, music, and magic allured.
I was in the mood for more young adult and again, this is an older edition people likely won't hunt down, but if you run into it, it's highly recommended.The writing style is formal and almost gothic, distant in style.
I've started to try to read through that list by locating the books at my local libraries.A Gift of Magic differs from Duncan's typical young adult thrillers.
Along with the home the children begin to develop heightened skills: one gets music, one gets dance and the third gets ESP.Mostly this book is about the children coming to terms with their new lives.
For the most part the book is slow and different from other Duncan books I've read.But there's an underlying twist that's foreshadowed throughout.
For that tight ending I'm giving the book a perfect rating.
WEll... first of all, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. I thought that it was a little bit short, but the author was very descriptive, and the plot was very interesting. I loved how developed the personnalities of the characters were. Nancy was very serious all of the time, Kirby was always zoning out, thinking about dancing, and Brendon was a troublemaker. I loved how it all worked out in the end, and I loved the "Once upon a time" and "happily ever after" thing. overall rating:one of my favs.
With these great powers she could easily influence people's lives - what they do and think - and this is a huge responsibility.
Nancy once used her ESP for a good thing.
Its not as big of a responsibility, but when I have to hang out with my cousin, who is 4, its pretty hard to stop myself from running away.
it would be easy to get him to do things him, like get me water, or a snack.Nancy has to restrain from using her powers for something that would harm somebody else, which could also be something that would give her personal gain.
Kirby would have the gift of dance, Brendon the gift of music and Nancy was given her grandmother's very own gift, which Elizabeth seemed to miss.Now, many years later, Elizabeth is back in her hometown with her own children and Nancy doesn't like it one bit.
Nancy wants to find a way to keep everything the same and at the same time, trying to learn about her gift and deciding what she should do with it.I thought this book was very interesting.
I felt sorry for all the characters at different times in the story, but I think I felt the most sorry for Nancy.
The changes seemed to be especially hard for her.I think the book teaches some good messages.
During these family's life they are living in Florida home of the beaches and crabs where Nancy and her sister and brother are attending a new school and making new friends making it feel like they are completely normal!what is special about this typical family is the fact that they all received a special gift from their grandmother who died.
She gave Kirby the gift of dance,Brendon the gift of music, and for Nancy the gift of magic.Later on Elizabeth learns that her high school "sweetheart", Tom Duncan lives just down the beach from her home.Nancy is determined to put back her parents and keep Tom Duncan away from her mom.
Brendon takes to the piano without reading music and noticing his talent.
Less of a supernatural thriller and more of a family drama tinged with magical realism. But Duncan's eye for details and the emotions of both teens and children makes it an enjoyable read. Particularly good for teens dealing with divorce.
Lois Duncan is able to pack a very 3-dimensional cast of characters into a pretty small book—I’m impressed. Reading this felt like a nostalgic trip back to junior high, despite me not having much in common with the characters other than having been an angry, angsty preteen like Nancy.Also, I wish kids still said cute stuff like “for rats’ sake!” and “cripes!”
I can imagine that I'd have liked this book a lot at a younger age. The story line would have intrigued me back then, at age 10 or so. It still did intrigue me, but the writing wasn't very good, the characters, particularly the mother, spoke in stereotyped stilted ways, "Now, Dear, remember to wash your hands."
She gave Nancy the gift of magic, Kirby got the gift of dance, and Brendon got the gift of music.
I am way too old for this book, but I kept with it because I didn’t want to quit.I was disappointed because I expected more of their abilities.
Kirby was all about being a dancer; Nancy did some stuff with her gift, but I expected way much more from the gift of magic, and Brendon did barely anything with his.
This is an odd novel because it’s so squarely tied to the time of its writing, but it’s been kind of falsely updated in unconvincing ways.
This is kind of silly in a way I will mention at the very end.So Kirby, Brendan, and Nancy have each been given magical, but ever so slight, gifts.
One, it just doesn’t make sense since the ending is supposed to suggest that their mother’s new marriage produces a fourth daughter named Lois Duncan, who becomes a writer.
Well Lois Duncan is 80 years old now so like probably her older brother never played a 3DS.Also, the sister is obsessed with ballet.
It did bug me a little that the book has obviously been touched up for modern times (e.g. the addition of email and text technology) but I can live with it.Our story follows a family of three children directly after their parents divorce.
The main plotlines deal with how the kids deal with their parents divorce, their new living situations and how they deal with their gifts (which they don't know they've been given).I'm now a 44 year old father and I appreciate this book for different reasons than I did when I first read it at age 13 but I still loved it.
All I can say is that Lois has had her day, and I am glad to be finally finished with this little project of mine.
There is nothing wrong with Lois Duncan, and she has written a few really good books.
Duncan had phenomenal success at a time when not that many books for teens were being published.
So, I intend no disrespect when I say that I am no longer a teen and am more than finished with these books.
This one was not as creepy as the rest of Duncan's books, which was a bummer.
It is a simple storyline that you can definitely figure out what happens next, but it is still an engaging story.
Kirby's struggle to become a dancer was great to read and could have been improved if the author had just devoted a few more pages to her.
Nancy's narration also made the book more interesting to read.
I like reading about her struggle with her social studies teacher.
The epilogue was very cheesy and did a terrible job of wrapping up the storyline.
I would have liked at least 5 more pages to wrap up all of the problems of the characters.
This is one of my absolute favorite books. The book focuses on a main character with psychic gifts that are well known and supported by her family-- a nice touch for a YA novel. The story chronicles her self-discovery, worries, skills. Excellently developed characters. Could not recommend more highly.If you liked this book, I recommend: ShadowlandViolet EyesSo You Want to Be a Wizard
This is a story about a family whose grandmother gave her grandchildren "gifts"--Kirby got the gift of dance, Brendon got the gift of music, and Nancy got something else that she's not sure what it is.
But then, of course, it ends up hitting her that she might have a responsibility that comes with her unusual talent, and she's not sure what to do when it seems to become bigger than she is.
You totally get inside this character's head.
I loved it as a young girl and really related to the main character.
This was one of the most boring paranormal books I've every read.
It was SO boring.
It was a wonderful concept, but Lois Duncan went nowhere with it.
There could have been someone trying to get them because of their gifts, or some more contact with the late grandmother, or SOMETHING more!
It was so cheesy in some parts (the "can't let mother marry somone other then dad").
So you can guess that I really didn't like this book.
It was boring and cheesy and the sad thing is that it had so much potential!
Sad really......
First read this book in elementary school, many times.
Gave it 5 stars because it has stayed with me all these years, any time I come across an ESP reference.
Big difference in reading it now as an adult.
Back then, I loved Nancy and felt so sorry for her, being ignored by her sister and worried about her parents.
But now, I just saw a self-centered brat who is extremely judgmental and thinks she knows what is best for everyone.
The story completely held up.
Moral of Nancy's story: with great power, comes great responsibility.
I'll read it again in 10 years!
I read this when I was eleven and it was an instant favorite.
I believed so much of Nancy's experiences with ESP.
I remember the book giving me chills and I would stay up late on summer nights unable to put the book down.
I read it at least five times when i was a child.
I re-read it recently and found it just as wonderful.
Obviously its meant for a young reader audience, and it was written awhile back, so some of the language is a bit corny but I loved it still.
I know I say this about a lot of books, but this is definitely an amazing book. This idea is amazing and the mystery/secrets is amazing. The whole idea of this "magic" gift is amazing and the sci-fi concept is great. I definitely recommend this book. Like you should stop reading this review right now so that you can read this book. No I'm serious. Read the book. STOP READING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Stop reading now. Why are you still reading? I hate you. Now go read the book.
One of Duncan's tamer stories but with a fun twist at the end.
One of the books that inspired me to know more about the paranormal.
Brendan (whose gift for music never really comes to much) is probably happiest as he finds the perfect partner in crime to pal around with.Things take a turn for the worse when Kirby suffers from a possibly career-ending broken leg, something that Nancy feels responsible for, and sinks into depression.
There were multiple POVs, but Nancy seemed to be the one who had to learn the most lessons--primarily that her "gifts" came with responsibilities, to accept change, to not meddle in other people's lives, etc.
Kirby had to learn to accept the loss of her gift of dance, but it was later restored to her.
I really like stories about witches and psychics, so when my mom recommended this to me, I wanted to read it. It’s told in many different perspectives, which was interesting. The family is actually like my best friends’: twin sisters and a younger brother. I saw one of my best friends in Kirby, totally devoted to what she does. I liked it; it was a fun, easy read.
Pretty good book. Enjoyed the pace (flew through it in a matter of hours). Would have liked to know more about how these magical powers came into being and how the granting/inheriting of the gifts works.
A nice exploration of mind reading and psychic ability--and who hasn't wished for the ability to control others with our thoughts. This book could have turned sinister but ended with Nancy learning some valuable lessons about her gift. A well written, quick read.
Took this to read on the beach but finished it on the plane ride there. Easy smooth read. Interesting concept. Nit a brain consuming read so great for the beach. Would make a nice book club read when wine is more important than the book discussion.
I re-read this lovely YA novel after more than a decade and was delighted to find it just as enthralling! Some very interesting characters, especially Kirby and young Brendan, and a captivating narrative make this simple story timelessly endearing.
It was ok. Maybe I expect too much from books, especially those meant for teens, but I just didn't feel it really had a point to it. And, as usual with Lois Duncan books, I found the characters to be really annoying.
My most recently read book. it was very weird and i liked it.
