https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291920.The_Character_of_Physical_Law
The deceptive effortlessness and simplicity of his moves, explained in a voice evidently more often used for seducing beautiful women...___________________________________I have been thinking about this remarkable book ever since I finished it a few days ago, and I feel I should say more.
Feynman is, of course, telling you interesting things about science, but the reason people love him is not so much the content, but the style.
He didn't think he was doing anything special, and that anyone could understand the physical world as he did if only they would try a little.
they eliminated absolute time, described light as particle & wave, defined space as 'curved', played with cats which were simultaneously dead and alive, came up with a slew of random constants, and - just as Area 51 info is passed on to every american prez ('except for the black guy!
But the difficulty really is psychological and exists in the perpetual torment that results from your saying to yourself, 'But how can it be like that?' which is a reflection of uncontrolled but utterly vain desire to see it in terms of something familiar.
There was a time when the newspapers said that only twelve men understood the theory of relativitiy.
I am going to tell you what nature behaves like.
Feynman takes the above given equation, which expresses Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation and says - that's all very well, but you can express it in another way that's to do with how something called a potential varies locally - and if you do it will always give exactly the same answer!
It is impossible, by the way, by picking one of anything to pick one that is not atypical in some sense. That is the wonder of the world. I would probably be giving this little book five stars if I wasn't already familiar with much of it from reading Feynman's Six Easy Pieces and Six Not-So-Easy Pieces. There's a good deal of overlap in the material, and Feynman even uses several of the same examples and analogies. It seems he was so often explaining these things that he developed a method. I m
What was new for me, however, was Chapter 2, "The Relation of Mathematics to Physics." It is extraordinary how Feynman is able to make such sophisticated philosophical points with such plain language, and with such apparent scorn for all philosophizing.
Since physical laws seem only expressible in a mathematical language, and since mathematicians have many times developed the tools necessary for physicists, often a hundred of years before they were needed, it seems there is a deep connection between these two.
He gives as an example the ways that Newton's laws were useful to Maxwell, even though gravity and electro-magnetism did not appear to have a deep connection.
Amazingly, though I was studying physics, I hadn't really been introduced to Richard Feynman in any real way.
That Saturday, I sat down with a cup of coffee in my small rooming house kitchen and started reading this book.
Feynman is a magician of explanation.
On every page I read, Feynman took some concept that I was familiar with and tugged it apart, then with a sly turn deftly snapped it back together in a new form.
The explanation that he produced this way was simpler, better, and it was as if he'd dropped that concept to its ground state.
That's what reading this is like.
و يعود سرَ شهرتها خاصَة إلى الطَريقة التي انتهجها في التفسير و التحليل منطلقا في كل مرَة من الظاهرة ليفسَر القاعدة الرياضية (عكس ما يحصل عندنا) إضافة إلى الروح المرحة التي غلبت على هذه المحاضرات, هادفا بذلك إلى إرساء طريقة صحيحة لفهم الفيزياء بعيدا كلَ البعد عن التعلَم بالغيب (rote learning) التلقين و غيرها من طرق التعليم التي عارضها بشدَة, يعدَ هذا الكتاب الذي بين يدينا أيضا ( خصائص القانون الفيزيائي) واحد من أهم مؤلفاته و يضم كذلك سلسلة من المحاضرات (عددها سبعة) قام من خلالها بشرح الخاصيات المشتركة للقواعد الفيزيائية من خلال تفسير الطريقة التي اكتشفت بها, مكانة الرياضيات من الفيزياء و الفرق الجوهري بين العلمين و قوانين الحفظ و التناظر.
It is commonplace to praise Feynman for describing fiendishly difficult concepts in friendly vernacular and intuitive analogies, for example, his wet towels metaphor for the second law of thermodynamics communicates its content, import, and the sad desperation physicists have felt about it unforgettably.
But what matters as much is that he is never sloppy, he never allows an analogy to carry away substance or overstep its explanatory limits.
the author explained "Foundation of quantum mechanics and Physics".He treated many interesting physics and quantum mechanics examples.I have a lot of harvest from the book. (^ ^)V
Ako som predtým písal, fyzika ma kopla do hlavy - u Hektorka tak, že som videl svet okolo seba ako sústavu mechanických vlastností a zázrakov - áno, zázrakov, lebo im všetkým ani zďaleka...
Ako sám Feynman v úvode upozorňuje, je to pokus o priblíženie fyziky laikovi, a preto text a štýl knihy nie je ťažkotonážne hovädo, avšak - sú (texty) to tiež jeho prednášky pre vysokoškolákov.
(sorry komiksy!) To len, keď túto knihu porovnám s tým, čo som o fyzike čítal predtým.
Nehovoriac o tom, že som u nás v kabinete - kde pracujem, našiel jeho masívnejšie dielo o fyzike...
This is not a book about the content of physics, but the practice of physics. What is it physicists do and how do they think? Feynman's explanation here is unmatched in its clarity and accessibility.
This is a short and easy to understand book. It is beneficial mostly to those new to popular science books. Feynman talks about the following topics: What are the laws of nature and how are they discovered. The story of the Law of Gravity up to Einstein, and that of the law of conservation of energy. The uncertainty and universality of the laws of nature. The flow of time, order and disorder (entropy). Levels of complexity. Quantum mechanics and uncertainty principle. And falsifiability.
A splendid story of the phyical laws of nature written by the best physics teacher of all times, Richard Feynman. He tells the theories of physics in the layman's language, making them easy to comprehend.
The first few are good reviews about gravity and basic physics concepts, but the interesting bits are about the nature of the laws themselves: how they were discovered and how science works in practice.
I was surprised to learn first that the axiomatic approach that grounds mathematics isn't the most effective way to approach physics and that (relatedly) physicists often guess at the right explanations and only later figure out why they're so.I found especially interesting that Feynman explicitly values the practice of generalizing an observation beyond the realm in which it was observed.
He makes a good case why this is critical for science.
A lovely book.
My son, Ryan, recommended this book since I wanted to learn more about Physics, and Richard Feynman per: Ryan is "great at explaining terms that everyone can understand".
The content is seven lectures delivered at Cornell University in 1964, and I must admit that some of the material went in one eyeball and out the other despite Mr. Feynman's great diagrams and simplified explanations.
I appreciated Richard Feynman's sense of humor such as "X is always the unknown, so let us call it W to make it seem that we have advanced above the usual!" And, how great to find out that "nobody understands quantum mechanics".
الكتاب عبارة عن مجموعة محاضرات للفيزيائي الشهير رتشارد فاينمان، ويستحق الخمسة نجوم إن تجاوزنا الترجمة السيئة للجمعية العلمية السعودية للعلوم الفيزيائية واستثنينا المحاضرة السابعة والأخيرة "البحث عن قوانين جديدة" والتي لمح خلالها مرات عديدة -بثقة غير علمية- بأن عصر التنظير الفيزيائي قارب الانتهاء! متجاهلاً الأخطاء الفادحة في النظريات الحديثة، رغم تعرضه لها في محاضرات سابقة
But it is interesting and a bit outside of the norm to for a physicist to think and talk about the character of physical laws -- what they are, what kinds of problems they describe, how they can be confirmed, extended and refuted, how they can be used and misused.
This kind of question is posed by philosophers of science like Popper and Feyerabend, but rarely by working scientists.
The perspective of a working scientist like Feynman is unsurprisingly a bit different from that of a full time philosopher of science.
Feynman'ın büyük bir bilim insanı olduğu kadar, iyi bir anlatıcı olduğunu da kanıtladığı harika bir kitap. Ancak kitap kısmen konuşmanın yazıya geçirilmiş olmasından, kısmen de çevirideki kayıplardan-ister istemez-konuşmaların kendisinde olduğu kadar akıcı ve esprili değil. Eğer bu kitabı beğendiyseniz ve İngilizceniz varsa, Cornell Üniversitesi'nin sitesindeki yedi bölümlük derslerin videolarını izlemenizi kesinlikle tavsiye ederim.
Enjoyed this one quite a bit. Particularly the last chapter on seeking new Laws of nature.
Bazı kitapların zamanı vardır, ancak zamanında okursanız anlar ve bundan keyif alırsınız. İşte bu öyle bir kitap, şu an olmuyorsa daha sonrası için rafa kaldırmaktan çekinmeyin. Bu arada çift yarık deneyi daha iyi anlatılamazdı sanırım.
Feynman explains how we got to various laws and how scientists think about the new ones. I particularly enjoyed the explanation of process of how Newton came up with gravitation equation and the double slit experiment which demonstrates that electrons behave both like waves and particles. Feynman uses his characteristic analogies and stories to make the explanations super-captivating.
In the first lecture he explored just what was meant by physical laws and this is genuinely interesting stuff, especially as it's something we rarely give much thought to.After that he goes on to cover specific areas, with lectures on gravity, maths, conservation, symmetry, the arrow of time and probability, before pulling things together in a final lecture on the search for new laws.
It's interesting from a historical perspective of what the understanding was like at the time, but it's not an ideal way to find out about particle physics.Overall, an essential if you want to have a complete picture of Feynman's output, and fascinating in that opening chapter, but not the best of the Feynman books.
Feynman sadece fizik yasalarının bugünkü kavranışına yaptığı katkılarla değil, fiziği fizikçi olmayanlar için de çekici kılma yeteneğiyle tanınır.
bu kitapta büyük bir fizikçinin düşünme biçimine görüyorsunuz.”— Times Literary Supplement“Feynman'ın “hiç kimse o kadar akıllı değildir” saptaması bana şunları çağrıştırıyor: Feynman'ın başarılarında “sihirli” bir yan yoktur ama doğru düşünmek, doğanın gerçekliğine doğru bir şekilde yaklaşmak, doğru soruları sormak, geleneksel olmayan cevapları denemek, sahte seslere ve kanıtlanamaz varsayımlara karşı tetikte olmak yatmaktadır.”— Philip W.
Anderson Dick'in [Richard Feynman] fiziğinin insanlar tarafından anlaşılmasının zor yanı matematiksel denklem kullanmamasıdır.
Hans [Bethe], Oppy [Oppenheimer] ve Julian Schwinger bu şekilde fizik yapmışlardır.
Dick ise denklemleri yazmadan çözümleri kafasında yapar.
Feynman consciously chooses select examples like the Law of Gravitation (which he says would have been considered less fancy Physics by then) and uses them to emphasise how tight-knit things really are in nature and how Mathematics is an indispensable tool for Physics.
He goes into showing the importance of careful study and hard work while explaining the process of scientific research.
He shows utmost respect to nature by taking a no nonsense attitude and avoiding any false modesty (he knows his Physics!).
His treatment of Quantum Mechanics is made very clear by his decision to present things just as they are.
Εξαιρετικό βιβλίο. Για όσους ήδη ασχολούνται με τη Φυσική, θα τους αναθερμάνει και θα τους εντείνει το ενδιαφέρον και για όσους δεν ασχολούνται, θα τους γεννήσει την επιθυμία να το κάνουν!
Feynman's lectures make good reading. That alone is somewhat unusual, since many lectures do not survive well when they are simply transcribed. The other unusual thing about Feynman's lecture style is that he makes what he's talking about clear and accessible without an excess of jargon. His approach is sometimes quirky, but in his lectures you can see how he thinks about that approach. In these lectures, there's a balance between musings about physics and musings about how people think (about physics and about other things). Read for the latter even if you think you'll be uninterested in the former.
For a long time, I was against the idea of having a favorite book; I thought it would be like picking a favorite child. But this book completely shattered this mindset.If you are not a physicist, this book will be a very easy and simple way for you to understand what physics is, and how we study it. On the other hand, if you are a physicist, this book will provide you with an extremely beautiful and concise way to look at the world and think about the major concepts of physics.This is, rightfully, my all time favorite book.
I procrastinated reading this because I thought the level of physics might be too difficult. It is actually extremely accessible and I'd recommend it to anyone interested in the way the universe works and the relationship between mathematics and physics. Since the chapters are transcribed lectures, there are a few points in the book at which complex mathematics is glossed over or presented as an understood explanation. Also, as lectures, the diagrams and illustrations are sparse, which makes the text rely to heavily on verbal explanations of formulae. But you can skim and still be in awe.
Book was great but listen to the guy's lectures and you get a feel for what it must have been like to learn from him.
If you thought before that science was certain - well, that is just an error on your part.The Distinction of Past and FuturePg.113 One of the rules of the world is that the thing goes from an ordered condition to a disordered.Seeking New LawsPg.158 During all that time the theory had not been proved wrong, and could be taken temporarily to be right.
We never are definitely right, we can only be sure we are wrong.Pg.158 One of the ways of stopping science would be only to do experiments in the region where you know the law.
