https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8253.Little_Town_on_the_Prairie
I had read these books with my mother when I was a child, and I grew up with the popular TV show based on the series, so there was a hefty dose of nostalgia whenever I reread one of the books.Now that nostalgia has become even more powerful, because book seven, Little Town on the Prairie, was the first one that I read aloud to my mother.
Little Town takes place in De Smet, South Dakota, when Laura was 15.
The stories are mostly sweet and charming, with the exception of mean Nellie Oleson and a bad teacher.
How would you like to work in town, Laura? When Mary lost her sight, she lost all hope of continuing her education. A kindly reverend tells the Ingalls family of a college for the blind. It goes without question that Mary will attend the seven years of school.Now, the Ingalls family desperately needs money to cover school costs for Mary. Laura takes up work in town - sewing buttons of all things. While she hates it, she wants Mary to go to college far mor. The Ingalls family's crops are set upo
How would you like to work in town, Laura?
A kindly reverend tells the Ingalls family of a college for the blind.
It goes without question that Mary will attend the seven years of school.Now, the Ingalls family desperately needs money to cover school costs for Mary.
Laura takes up work in town - sewing buttons of all things.
The Ingalls family's crops are set upon by great swarms of pests.
And, to top it all, Eliza Jane (Laura's future sister-in-law) teaches their one-room school - and she's terrible at it.
When Eliza Jane unjustly punishes Carrie, Laura escalates until she is thrown out of school.
As a child, living in Jamaica, sharing homes with Jamaican families and running in a pack with Jamaican kids, I actually didn’t know what the “darkies” of this chapter were supposed to be.
I wish it wasn't like this: but the book was published in 1941 and is set in 1882, so we're stuck with it.And for a long time, as a child, this book was my favorite of the series.
(I love that when she writes the mean verse about Eliza Jane she excuses herself: “She meant only to please Ida, and perhaps, just a little, to show off what she could do.” I know this feeling so well.
Most problematic of the bunch so far.Minstrel show? Lunatic fringe? Half-wit? 23-year old Almanzo slithering around 15-year old Laura?And why is Ma so keen on Laura becoming a teacher? It seems to be a one-year-of-teaching-and-then-get-married sort of enterprise. Why even bother?
(They continue talking and counting...)Dad: Ladies?Ladies: Yes?Dad: You ready?Ladies: Yes!!!Eleanor: Dad, are you writing equations?Gwennie: He's writing too much!E: Dad?D: So lets talk about the book.E: The first thing I want to talk about was that the men were saying, "I'm Tay Pay Pryor and I'm DRUNK!
It wasn't good for Laura and Carrie.D: I know it wasn't good for them.E: Then why were you saying it was interesting?D: Maybe because I always hear people talk about how good people were back then, but it seems like even the best people got in trouble sometimes, you know?E: I thought it was interesting when Pa got a mouse in his hair!D: What did it do again?E: It 
Things are really looking up for the Ingalls family--they get a kitten, Mary finally goes off to college, there are parties in town, and by the end of the book, Laura gets her teaching certificate.
That whole thing with Nellie and Miss Wilder kind of makes you wonder who really is the petty person.
Another thing, I love Almanzo as he begins to court Laura (maybe I squealed more).
Also making it less creepy, Laura's maturity--she even helps Ma and Pa get the money to send Mary to college.
We see more of their slow courtship in the next book (more squeal-worthy moments).
I found myself feeling so proud of Mary finally going to the college for the blind, and so proud of Laura getting her teacher's certificate.
<3 Of course I also continued loving the historical context of the story.Only two more books to go, I think?
:) Content AdvisoryMention of strangers swearing, and also mention of the husband in a family Laura works for swearing while he and his wife constantly argue.
Laura witnesses a couple drunk men causing some destruction and singing.
(She thinks it's funny.)Mention of a minstrel show and a song from it is sung that repeatedly uses the tem "darkies".
The characters are the same as in all the books, of course--Pa is the greatest and a hero among men, Ma is uptight and kind of racist, Laura is rebellious but good at heart.
Notes of note:- I liked the conversation when Mary admitted that she was being good partly to show off.
What if they'd never moved to town, as I'm sure a lot of people didn't?
Who did those people marry?- For someone who hated to sew, Ma sure did a damn good job of it.
the ingalls family is no longer starving/freezing, so things are starting to look up for them.
highlights:-they get a cat!!-mary goes away to college in an extremely pretty dress-almanzo wilder starts sniffing around-they have enough to eat-it does not snow inside the house-they get chickenslow points:-miss wilder being a real jerk.
i love garth williams but i cringed so hard when i saw that illustration.-ma continuing to hate indians-i'm really worried about carrie's headaches-kinda bummed me out that even in the 1880s Laura was looking in the mirror and wishing she could be tall and willowy like Nellie Oleson.
I tend to forget how much I love these books (and especially this one) until I re-read them for about the 60th time!! Now it's even nicer because I'm able to read them for the first time to my little sister who is loving them just as much as I did!
Always a comfortable treat to read--one of my favorites in the series.
I feel like my favorites in this series were Little House on the Prairie and Farmer Boy. I liked the others, but they simply couldn't match up to those two.
When I was younger, I distinctly remember not enjoying the later books in this series as well because Laura grew up and the events weren't as exciting. But now, as I re-read it, I eagerly keep reading and lavish over the events of her young adult years. I love these books, every single one, every age, aspect, and adventure of Laura's life. It's just so exciting.Plus I embarrass myself by my reaction to Almanzo's appearances. What a dreamboat! :)
I loved the sense of re-birth. After reading The Long Winter, it felt great to be warm and light-hearted again.
In this book we see the Ingalls family experiencing more prosperity than ever before in the series.
Laura is now a young lady, and is getting closer and closer to becoming a teacher so that she can help support Mary, who leaves for college in this book.
I enjoyed getting more details of life in town, from the birthday parties to the Literary meetings, from the current fashions to the autograph books and name cards that become so popular.
Laura experiences so many tremendous changes in this book, but we are shown that even greater changes will be coming in the next installment.
Love this book just as much as always. Good ol' American heart, ethics, and Christianity <3 So fascinating to see what we were like 100+ years ago.
Why, why, why did I never read this when I was younger?
But I'm VERY happy to have read this now.
I was enthralled with the classroom drama that happened while Miss Wilder (Almanzo's sister) was teaching school.
Although she brought a lot of her troubles upon herself with her "we will all be happy and friends all the time" style of classroom management.This is just a wonderful continuation of the story told in The Long Winter.
Don't stop with reading just the first few books like I always did when I was younger.A favorite quote: "'This earthly life is a battle,' said Ma.
I have read this perhaps for the third time in my life.
I needed to read a book in a series and of course it seemed that a Laura Ingalls Wilder book would be perfect.
Having not read one in hmm, almost 30 years I wasn't sure if it would be as wonderful as I remembered.
In fact it was one of the most enjoyable reading that I have had for a long time.
I now want to continue on and see what happens with Laura now being certified as a teacher.
So "The Long Winter" is about 7 months that were very long."Little Town on the Prairie" is about 3 years, most of the winters unworthy of mention. But at the end, Laura is now a teacher and is being courted by Almanzo (even tough she's clueless about that being the case). Also, Mary's at college and hasn't been home in a few Christmases. The school scenes are excruciatingly boring. No wonder Laura hated going so much. And yet.
This is one of my favourite LIW books. I'm fascinated by the descriptions of life in town. Two things that struck me in particular were a) how modestly they lived and b) how quickly they had to grow up. Just think of Laura, going off to teach at age 15. I was no where near mature enough for that at that age. And they all seemed so selfless too - always passing on things to each other, because they didn't need them themselves, and thought the other person would like them more.
Love love love these books!! Absolutely wonderful! What will happen with Almanzo and Laura now that she'll be teaching school 12 miles away? Carrie will be lost without her big sister Laura around! Laura and Pa and Ma are all smart! I love the Literaries the town does! What neat community-building!
I didn’t love this book quite as much as I’m enjoying my other rereads in the series.
I feel a bit frustrated by hard Laura feels she has to study.
It’s fun to see her mature and start walking out with Manly though.
As with all the other books, the pleasure for me is the simple everyday life descriptions of life in a frontier town.
Because there is always a battle to fight in these tough times.I thought this was my favourite book in the series, but on reread, it’s definitely not.I’m saving that honour for These Happy Golden Years.
307 pages.
I enjoyed this book almost as much as the previous books in the series.
It was nice to see how Laura meets Almanzo Wilder and how things progress as the family continues working their land claim out west.
There is a part later in the book that includes a performance by the locals that would be considered quite taboo today involving a minstrel group.
I think some discussion would need to accompany this if a teacher was reading it aloud to a class.
I highly recommend it as I continue to re-read this well-written series.
Highly recommended for grades 4-5.
Another wonderful volume in the Little House series. Nellie Olsen returns for more drama, Almanzo comes a courtin', Mary goes off to college, and Laura grows up. What's not to love? I especially loved the depictions of social life in a brand new town at the end of the 1800s. I couldn't get into these books as a kid, but now that I'm an adult, I absolutely love them!
Still one of my favorites
This book picks up right where The Long Winter ended, and even though the Ingalls have moved back to their claim for the summer, Laura is walking back into town every morning to sew shirts at a drygoods store to earn money to help send Mary to college.
She begins to feel restless and isn't sure what it is she wants, but as the town becomes quite lively with literary evenings and socials and private parties and church revivals, Laura isn't restless any more.
Laura worries about Mary being able to attend college and helps the family save by taking a job sewing, there are "literaries" in the winter evenings that have everything from spelling contents to songs, and Laura is struggling to work toward being a teacher while fighting with her rival Nellie Oleson, who's moved to the same town.The writing in this book seemed a lot more polished than in the previous ones.
a big girl like you, crying' Laura choked out."Yes, I know, Laura and Carrie are also trying not to cry, but the shaming is so toxic from my modern viewpoint that it skews the whole scene for me.And then there's the 4th of July speech, cheered lustily by all the townsfolk:"...They had to fight the British regulars and their hired Hessians and the murdering scalping redskinned savages that those fined gold-laced aristocrats turned loose on our settlements and paid for murdering and burning and scalping women and children..."Again, context, context, context...
but it's tough to swallow nonetheless.There are some lovely scenes here, though.
I read these books a million times when I was a kid. Re-reading them now, as an adult, I realize how Wilder's style changes as she ages in the books. I didn't pick up on this as a kid, and it is such a nice surprise now. Favorite quote (Almanzo Wilder is walking her home for the first time, and there's an awkward silence): "To her complete surprise, she heard her own voice...". I took away one star for super rampant racism (blackies, and savages, and inmigrants... Oh my!). Totally understandable, given the period, but still. Not cool, Laura.
A lot happens in this installment! It does cover quite a bit of time in the storyline, and you see how Laura is growing up, ever faster. Almanzo and Laura finally meet, though it was not a formal introduction as it should have been. We see a reappearance of Nellie Oleson, and she's as spiteful as ever! She's a character you love to hate! It's interesting to see Laura's transition to a town girl, and she mostly keeps the characteristics that I enjoyed when she was a younger girl. I'm eager to see where she goes from here!
