https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40881649-crocodile-on-the-sandbank
I read quite a few books about Ancient Egypt (and other equally old civilizations), ranging from the decipher of the hieroglyphic alphabet, to different theories regarding the creation of Pyramids, even about aliens.
Moreover, it wants to be a Victorian mystery which is definitely a plus as I am also a fan of that era in books.
The 3rd bonus point is the main character, a feisty, funny, feminist heroine who I enjoyed having as my guide in this novel.
Moreover, the main mystery was too easy to solve although I greatly enjoyed the journey.
What a marvellous, marvellous book.
I've seen Elizabeth Peter's books around, of course, but knew nothing of what they were about, and the covers never particularly attracted me.
After seeing them recommended on someone's blog, I thought I'd pick up the first of her Amelia Peabody series - and what a joy it was.
Amelia Peabody - strong-minded, independent, sarcastic Amelia, striding along in her restrictive skirts in Victorian Egypt, fascinated by the country and its ancient history - is what makes this book so thoroughly delightful.
I can't wait to pick up the next one.
“Men are frail creatures, of course; one does not expect them to exhibit the steadfastness of women.”Barbara Mertz was one creative gal - she hooked me with her gothic mysteries under the Barbara Michaels penname, but I never indulged as much in her straight mystery stories under the name Elizabeth Peters. I finally took the plunge and tried the first book in her long-running series set around Egyptian adventures. Amelia Peabody is quite a character - feminist for her times, tough and determined
In this first book she discovers her love of ancient artifacts and Egypt.
Side characters give fun times too - where would Amelia be without her loyal and sweet companion, Evelyn, and the brothers Walter and Emerson?
It's not a particularly romantic book and it's kept completely PG, but sparks start to fly and I'm sure most readers were happy when Emerson finally starts losing his prejudice towards Amelia and sees her for what she is: an ideal partner in exploration, both Egypt and life.
The ambience of Egypt erupts through the pages, making me feel a bit of an itch myself when it comes to traveling and marveling at the world's mysteries.
I'm sick of reading tiresome things, so I'm going to read this fun thing and the next two in the series... so there!That was fun. Cheered me up immensely.
What a pleasant, well written and entertaining book!
I guess I have found myself another series and I believe this is a pretty long one!Amelia Peabody is a wonderful character, sometimes verging on becoming a caricature but the author writes subtly enough to prevent this happening.
The same applies to Emerson who despite all his apparent failings of temperament is still someone the reader can like enormously.
They were certainly brave in those days.I am very glad I found this first book in the series and will certainly read more.
It also introduced me to Amelia Peabody, no-nonsense lady archaeologist-doctor and resident badass, whose travels through Egypt are full of interesting characters and settings.
I mean, you can't not love a Victorian lady who's as practical as they come.
However, these passages are followed by Amelia stating in her matter-of-fact way, "And if only the women weren't trapped into marriage in their teens, perhaps things would be better here!", so she's believably modern in that regard.Anyway, this book was awesome.
I want to be a lady archaeologist in divided skirts, traveling on a boat with a piano.
I was on the trip to Egypt along with Amelia, Evelyn, Emerson and Walter.
While that superiority is there, it is mingled with a sense of awe, respect, and love for Egypt that encompasses its people, even if their ways and culture may strike her as peculiar and lacking to her British sensibilities.Even though the story is through Amelia’s point of view, I felt I gained a very complex vantage point of its characters.
I can see these women being friends until their dying day.My favorite scene in the book was when (view spoiler)[Emerson saves Amelia from the snake.
99c Kindle sale, August 7, 2018. Today only. I bit!

(She also writes acclaimed "romantic suspense" under the name Barbara Michaels.) It was an absolute treat to read; I hated to put it down!Set in 1884 (the date isn't given, but can be deduced from the few references to Gordon at Khartoum), the novel is narrated by Amelia herself; Peters gives her diction a Victorian flavor which adds verisimiltude, and appeals to readers like me who enjoy 19th-century fiction.
“My name is Amelia Peabody… I am a spinster of independent means, traveling for pleasure…I have been accused of being somewhat abrupt in my actions and decisions, but I never act without thought; it is simply that I think more quickly and more intelligently than most people. I am an excellent judge of character.” I simply adored Amelia! She is my kind of heroine - intelligent, bold, courageous, and outrageous with a propensity for using her parasol as a weapon. She is opinionated and willfully
“My name is Amelia Peabody… I am a spinster of independent means, traveling for pleasure…I have been accused of being somewhat abrupt in my actions and decisions, but I never act without thought; it is simply that I think more quickly and more intelligently than most people.
Independent after inheriting her father's estate, Amelia embarks on a tour of Egypt via Rome.
Amelia, undaunted by convention, hires her as a companion and travels on to Egypt.
There they meet the brooding bad-tempered Radcliffe Emerson and his charming younger brother Walter.The irritable Radcliffe is a perfect foil to Amelia's tendency to take charge of any situation.
This book is a complete winner in its genre!
It offers warm friendships, engaging characters, sweet clean romance, mystery, humor, atmosphere, plenty of interesting and technical historical details, impeccable writing.
Loved the quirky narration in which the main character addresses the reader.
I was completely impressed with the way the author drew a visual picture to accompany dialogue.
She describes the characters' gestures, facial expressions, their entire countenance in such a way that one can not help but feel it as well as hear it.
So happy to discover her and to find that she is a very prolific author.
4.5 Exciting, imaginative, thrilling and very evocative. A light-hearted mystery, a strong-willed, open-minded woman explorer, a recreation of 19th century Egypt, a page-turner focused on characters' interactions - what's not to love?
When I was younger, I really, really wanted to be an archaeologist. We have a book at home, called  The Concise History Encyclopedia , and it is perhaps the most battered book in my house. I was nine when we bought it, and from then, till I was about 14 or 15, I used to read that book everyday, conscientiously. My brother and I used to play a game where he used to pretend to be my professor, who would ask me questions from the book. I used to draw diagrams from it and I basically knew every word
I had always loved history and ruins and just ancient mysteries.
His adventures became mine, and I dreamt of being like the great Dr. Jones - digging up tombs in Egypt and exploring lost Mayan temples.
The book delivered on everything it promised - mystery, history, and a wee bit of romance.
I was gripped; the book, much like the main characters' romance, was fast.
Sure, the book is set in the 19th century, and most of Amelia's opinions read like a feminist's in the 19th century would.
It is a wonderful, little cosy mystery, and I would definitely, without fail, read the second book.
Of course, the companion she’s chosen comes with some baggage, and adventure and mystery ensue, involving mummies, archaeology, and great burly Englishmen with righteous beards.*If Amelia Peabody is a spinster at 28 years old, I hate everything.
And as previously mentioned, Amelia often flouts feminine convention because: a) She’s not worried about her reputation or landing a man, and b) she’s not worried about those things because she has her own income and can afford not to.
Example:“You are the one who loves this life,” Evelyn said, watching me curiously.
There was a faint smile on her lips.Also, every time Amelia called Emerson “that bearded person.” I love that forever.
If my memory serves me correct, this is the first Amelia Peabody mystery novel.
I now have probably at least 15 of these books on my shelf and Elizabeth Peters keeps popping a new one out every year.
Each book contains new mysteries ("every year, another body") that threaten the archeological digs in which she participates.
These books are much more than simple historical mysteries, they're also comedies and romances.
And I really thought Tomb of the Golden Bird was the end of the series but I'm ecstatic to hear there's a new Amelia Peabody book out!
I was interested because it took place in Egypt!I enjoyed reading the book because the character is really very appealing - Amelia, in Victorian times, is an 'old maid' at 29, but is also a feminist, independent, and smart, but with an obvious, if hidden-from-herself romantic streak.In this story, she rescues a young 'fallen' woman and then proceeds to stick by her when, at an archaeological site staffed by two appealing Egyptologists, a seemingly supernatural animated mummy attacks...However, the book was published in 1975.
Crocodile on the Sandbank, and the entire Amelia Peabody series, fall into the cozy mystery genre as they are very gentle mysteries that aren't particularly frightening and don't have any objectionable elements.
I found it interesting and amusing that Amelia immediately recognized Evelyn's love for Walter, but when she started falling for Emerson, she didn't initially discern it as the same emotion in herself.
Anyone who enjoys a good mystery/adventure yarn with a plucky heroine, an exotic setting and a dash of romance, should like this book.
Crocodile on the Sandbank is the first of the Amelia Peabody series, and my first read by Elizabeth Peters.
I thought she was a bit too much at first, but decided I liked her once Evelyn began to have an effect on her.
And Emerson - he was just right for a hot-headed archaeologist and as an opponent for Amelia, and I liked how their relationship played out.There was also more to the mystery than I thought at first, which made this more than just a pleasant bit of fun in Egypt with artifacts laying around everywhere.
The setting is a big part of the fun, and what makes it different from other Victorian cozy mysteries.
Amelia Peabody is wonderful.
Though the novel occasionally gets weighed down by its description of Egypt, digs, and archaeology I loved the intelligent female heroine, her perchance for matchmaking, and her stubbornness.
It's so nice to find a character who combines intelligence with a independent spirit and yet does not bog the reader down with pages and pages of feminist tirades (well perhaps only a page or two.) The mystery was perhaps a hint predictable but outrageous and fun enough to make it worth reading.Most importantly, my Mom liked this one and immediately got herself the sequel!
I always enjoy a little Amelia Peabody. I put an * next to my favorites (since they get a bit formulaic), and I just bought those 5 to add to my library. If you do read them all I recommend skipping #11. I think she's now written more in the series, too.1. Crocodile On The Sandbank*2. The Curse Of The Pharaohs3. The Mummy Case4. Lion In The Valley* 5. Deeds Of The Disturber6. The Last Camel Died At Noon* 7. The Snake, The Crocodile & The Dog8. The Hippopotamus Pool9. Seeing a Large Cat10. Th
I always enjoy a little Amelia Peabody.
I put an * next to my favorites (since they get a bit formulaic), and I just bought those 5 to add to my library.
If you do read them all I recommend skipping #11.
I think she's now written more in the series, too.1.
Crocodile On The Sandbank*2.
The Curse Of The Pharaohs3.
The Mummy Case4.
The Snake, The Crocodile & The Dog8.
Guardian of the Horizon—this was written later, I think, and I didn’t like a part of it (could skip it!)12.
The Golden One16.
Tomb of the Golden Bird
‘Crocodile on the Sandbank’, the first in the Amelia Peabody mystery series, is a perfectly splendid cozy mystery!
Morosely, Amelia sends the companion back to England and wonders how to fix the situation.
But Evelyn is NOT going to be permitted to do so if Amelia has anything to say about it!
Amelia clearly sees Evelyn is a person of honor who has been grievously abused, and Amelia needs a vigorous and young paid companion if she is to realize her dreams of adventure in Egypt.
What a fortuitous meeting!So begins the journey which will change both of the young women's lives.
My wife loved all these books (and a great many other things Elizabeth Peters, Barbara Michaels, Barbara Mertz wrote).
I'm giving it 3 stars as I recognize that this/these are very well written books.
For one thing, I suppose the main thing, I really don't "like" Amelia Peabody...we just probably wouldn't get along.
These are well written books and if they are your cup of tea (as Amelia's English it would definitely be tea) you will probably love them.
Please, I know my wife and others loved these so, if you're a mystery buff, if you think you might get along with Amelia...try them.
I got into this book due to the all too apparent Egyptian lure and the lure of archaeological fictio
Review of audiobook version narrated by Barbara Rosenblat.The mystery in this book wasn't very good - how could it be when the villain was a Mummy?
Let me feel your brow, Peabody, I am sure you must be fevered."As you can imagine from the way I've described Amelia, any man who falls in love with her must be unusual himself: a man just as smart but strong enough not to be cowed by her and let her be herself.
Amelia had a kind heart which leaned toward the underdog and an embracing curiosity with life.
Unexpectedly inheriting a large fortune, she befriended a young woman, Evelyn, who had suddenly found herself in dire straits.
The depths of the pyramids, the height of the Himalayas- no spot on earth is safe from you!"*As if Amelia would let those comments go.....
:)*And you, sir, are the lordly British male at his loudest and most bad-mannered.
Two words: boo hoo.Almost too smart for her own good, Amelia was years ahead of her time.
So it wasn't the 1850's feminist vibe that turned me off this book; it was the whole premise of the book and the fact that IMO this is a romance-disguised-as-mystery-in-exotic-locale.Come on, she hates the rugged, ruddy, sorta dirty archaeologist she meets on a trip down the Nile.
(Does this more or less spell out why I dislike romances so much?)Once I got a load of this guy, and her reaction to him, I said to myself, mystery-shmystery, this is gonna turn into a love-fest by the end and it does, or did.
However this is probably the perfect book for those who want predictable characters, a trope-laden romance, and a mystery about a stupid mummy.
I hope this is a parody, because if it isn't, it's a dreadful book.
Amelia and Emerson are great characters.
The rest are, predictably, cardboard.
The only thing he didn't do was talk-a like-a thees.
In fact he came across more like Tonto in 1950s novels.
It's weak and predictable, and this story isn't about that anyway.
It's Amelia and Emerson.
All in all it's a pretty crummy book, but if you read quickly and don't think too hard it's an enjoyable way to spend some time.
But I'd rather go and read some more Gail Carriger and meet Lord Akeldama again.
I can definitely see why this book was added to one of my Top 100 Crime Novels list -- it is brilliant.The story begins in Rome, where Amelia Peabody, an irrepressible, resolute woman, rescues an unfortunate young lady from death in the streets.
The young lady, Evelyn, was disinherited by her wealthy grandfather after she was seduced by a cad named Alberto.
That is what Amelia must find out...This is the first novel in the Amelia Peabody series, and it was a joy to read.
4 'perfectly splendid' starsPassed an enjoyable car trip listening to this one - loved the narrator Susan O'Malley.
She could imbue the character of Amelia Peabody with the starchy English accent of Edna Mae Oliver's portrayal of Lady Catherine de Bourgh when needed but also provide the warmth and cleverness needed to make Amelia a 3-dimensional and lovable character.
I'll give it a try and hope that I will enjoy the story.I did guess the mystery - but it was a fun journey anyway.
