https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530582.A_Visit_to_William_Blake_s_Inn
This book is playful surrealism based on Nancy Willard's love of William Blake's poetry.
This book mixes dreams and poetry to come up with a lovely experience to eating stardust with animals as guests at an inn.
William Blake himself is in the story and his inn sounds magnificent.
I love things like this.
My imagination wakes up and wonder fills me and the world seems more magical having read something like this.
The art of the story is dreamlike and surreal.
The whole experience is wonderful and told in verse.
I love the poetry and rhymes.
Overall, this is probably a 4 star book, but it gets bumped up to 5 stars for having my favorite children's poem of all time in it.
It's called "The King of Cats Sends a Postcard to His Wife" and you can read the poem online!
And of course, the illustrations are just perfect, too.I've often given this charming picture book as a gift to friends.
Sometimes those friends even have children who enjoy it, too.
Although I do have to admit that Nancy Willard's A Visit to William Blake's Inn is fantastical, imaginative and yes, at times even rather entertaining and fun, personally, because I have NEVER really all that much been able to either enjoy or even appreciate William Blake as a poet (finding his lyric output for the most part frustratingly contrived and artificial, especially if I dare to compare Blake's verses to my two favourite British poets, namely to John Keats and A.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
This is such a quirky book!!!
I somehow thought it would be historical; it was instead fanciful, all about an fantastical inn in the sky, run by William Blake, and the creatures who come to stay there.
One of my favorite poems features two sunflowers who tire of living in a garden and decide to take root in the inn; another is about a cow with lovely long lashes who butters her bread with clouds.
I'm not sure that this will become a favorite book any time soon, but it is definitely one that I will remember!!!
Let's put this in perspective: This is the only book, EVER, to have won *both* a Newbery Medal AND a Caldecott Honor.
All this should sorta give a hint that "William Blake's Inn" is a special kind of experience.And that it is.....but more in the sense of "Mother Goose non-sensical nursery rhymes meet Beatles acid trip lyrics" sort of way.
Then, after becoming aware of just how crazy but amazingly creative this guy is (he claimed to see visions of real spirits & demons....since he was 7!), then Nancy Willard's work seems to make a whole lot more sense (if that's even possible)."William Blake's Inn" is a powerful artistic, aesthetic, creative experience.
It is beautifully illustrated.
Five stars for the illustration.I know nothing about William Blake and his poetry so without doing further research I admit I don't understand what the author was trying to do here.
It was mostly lost on me, but even though I'm sure I'm missing some deeper understanding, I loved the illustrations, the silliness of the stories, and the aspiring B&B owner in me had fun imagining what a guest would experience at an unusual inn.
This won a Newbery?
This won a Caldecott?
I doubt that any child I'm acquainted with would like this book.
Perhaps a brilliant, highly literate child who is familiar with William Blake would?
Are there any kids out there familiar with William Blake?
The description says it contains poems inspired by William Blake.
If so, then why not also include Blake's poems that inspired this book?
There are a couple in here, but they have nothing to do with the story.Boring...awful illustrations...there's so much better poetry out there for kids (Shel Silverstein, Jack Prelutsky, Judith Viorst).
If this is a child's first exposure to poetry, I feel sorry for him/her.
I spotted this on the Open Library quite by chance, and decided to read it due to its delightful cover. I wasn't sure what to expect, but it was really quite delightful. The illustrations are charming, and the poems are clever and sure to delight young and old. So much lovely whimsy is collected within the pages of A Visit to William Blake's Inn; it is an almost chronologically continuous poetry collection. Consistently good.
I was most entranced by the story Nancy Willard tells as her introduction and by the author's bio note that says she built a six-foot model of the inn while working on the book.
I have read and enjoyed a small amount of William Blake's work but I am not familiar enough with it to know what references Willard might or might not have been making in her poems to Blake's poems.
I can't imagine that most children would be likely to get such references being even more unlikely to be familiar with Blake's work.It is certainly interesting to see poetry honored by the Newbery.
I loved Nancy Willard from her sweet baseball fantasy novel, Things Invisible to See, and was excited to read a (thin) Newbery written by her.
I also saw that it is the only book that has ever won both the Newbery and the Caldecott awards, and was impressed.After I read this book of poetry, and found that I felt neither impressed nor excited, I knew that it was I who was lacking.
Unless you know (and probably, love) William Blake and his poems “Songs of Innocence” and “Songs of Experience,” Willard’s “Visit” to the “…Inn” is not a masterpiece, but only a lengthy, clever, quirky, weird poem that is wonderfully illustrated.
This is book that tells the tale of a young boy who is sick and his nanny tells him a tale of an Inn where William Blake stays and the adventures of the tenants through poetry. This book was difficult and I would not use it in a classroom or have in my collection. I think there are better options for children who want to experience the world of poetry.Poetry
I think if I were more familiar with the works of Blake, I would have enjoyed this collection even more.
Having been awarded pretty much all the awards a children's book can win (Caldecott, Newberry, even a finalist for a National Book Award, rugrat category) i started off optimistically, expecting to be delighted.
But i have selected the best bits (according to me):“He inquired, “Is everyone ready?
We’ll start on our journey as children,	But i fear we will finish it old.” *** “Fox and Hound, go paw in paw.
Cat and Rat, be best of friends.
Dancing starts where fighting ends.”Sadly, this Winner of many awards, in my estimation, sorely lacked in fearful symmetry.
Walk before I run, etc.It also happens to be an excellent time to look back at the 1982 Newbery winner because for over thirty years it was the only book to have won both a Newbery Medal and a Caldecott Honor.
Both books were total left-field choices for the Newbery, and both of them beat out some strong contenders for the gold medal (Ramona Quimby, Age 8, in the case of A Visit to William Blake's Inn).I initially chose Visit as my 1980s selection because it's one of the few Newbery winners from the eighties that I hadn't read.
A Visit to William Blake's Inn is a rare jewel of a book, and it deserves its medal.
At the beginning of the book it gives readers a understanding of Blake’s inn and some of his animal staffs that helped him to run his inn and to provide a comfortable place for their guests.
At the end of the book, an epilogue is included that talks about the feelings of the travelers leaving Blake’s inn and how much fun they have had during their times with Blake and his crew.The poem text is a useful reading for children to use their imagination to create an adventurous journey for themselves to explore with their idol as a host.
I'm not a fan of poetry, but I occasionally read a verse or two just in case my reading habits broaden.On my second attempt, with the proper background, I enjoyed this book a whole lot more.
Blake fans must be able to study the images for hours, always noticing something new.And the poems are fun.
(Which would possibly change with another reading.)And a verse such as this one, fits the story beautifully.Now I lay me down to sleepwith bear and rabbit, bird and sheep.If I should dream before I wake,may I dream of William Blake.
When a book wins a Newbery Medal, I take note.
When a book wins a Caldecott Medal, I take equal notice.
But when a book wins both the Newbery Medal and the Caldecott Honor, I sit up straighter in its presence.I can readily understand why A Visit to William Blake’s Inn won both medals.
These poems are all given to describing one aspect of the fantastical inn which William Blake runs in Ms. Willard’s imagination – an inn where fire-breathing dragons bake the bread, a rabbit shows the guests to their rooms, and angels make the cloudy, downy beds.
A lack of knowledge is easy to rectify by simply searching for William Blake and  Songs of Innocence and Experience.
Now, I didn't read the entirety of  Songs of Innocence and Experience , I simply don't have time at the moment, but I did peruse around 10 pages or so and they were all fairly thought provoking things.
However, I did not read all of William Blake's book, so, who knows?
I would have enjoyed the original based on the 10 pages or so I read, but, I was a somber child at times and I did like poetry.
Genre: Poem- Fantasy Format: Picture Book Award: John Newberry Medal and Caldecott Honor Summary: In this poetic Fantasy, there is an Inn that William Blake owns.
I would say it is very important to be educated on types of poems and being able to truly decree meaning and flow before reading books such as this one.
Prompts and Questions: Teacher should ask students about their knowledge on poems.
She should ask guiding questions such as, "What would you do if a bear was your bed?", or if a rabbit showed you to your hotel room?
Craft Elements for reading and writing a lesson: Students will be asked to write their own fantasy poem.
I have a comment about one of the last poems: "Blake Tells the Tiger the Tale of the Tailor." If this is meant as a bedtime story, then it would probably succeed in putting a child to sleep.
I didn't really have a favorite poem; most of them verged on fantasy or nonsense--flying cars with grass, a bear for a bed, a man who straightens bends in the road with starch, etc.
And while I do like fantasy, these poems didn't really float my boat so to speak; in spite of all the awards this book won.
Delightful, and truly brilliant!
In her late seventies now, Nancy Willard is vibrant, charming, and fun, and so is this book, which exceeded my expectations.
Can't believe it took me this long to get around to reading it.
I especially love the title because I think her poems would appeal to both young and old, and to those who have never read much poetry and to poetry lovers.
Well deserving of the Newbery (one of the very few books of poetry ever to win; Willard earned the award in 1982).
This was a real treat. Think Dr. Seuss, but with more mature, flowing language. I should think that anyone who is familiar with William Blake and his work would love it even more than I do. I, however, am not familiar with him and didn't even know who he was before I heard of this Newbery winner, which although being a children's picture book (not for five-and-unders due to the complexity) is very well earned. Who cares who the real life Blake was. Just revel in the poetry and the imagination. This is a book for all ages.
William Blake Inn is a great book.
I love how the boy travels from place to place having a rhyming poem to go with the book.
I also like how the book has lots of different things that the boy does.
Because the book is so short you can't really understand what the author is trying to tell you.
But overall it is a great funny book about a made up person named William Blake.
This is a different type of newberry book, because it is a LOT shorter and is a rhyming book.
I really love this book
I feel a little guilty passing judgment on this book without having read Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience. But likely its juvenile readers won't have read Blake either. Given that, this volume of Blake-inspired children's poetry is often delightful, at times confusing, and illustrated beautifully (in addition to winning the 1982 Newbery, it was a Caldecott Honor book that year, too). But I am not at all sure how this book would go over with children...I must find some and make them read it!
1981: A Visit to William Blake's Inn by Nancy Willard ( Harcourt Brace Jovanovich)Newberry WinnerCaldecott HonorPoetryA very enjoyable book of poetry in honor of the poet, William Blake. Willard takes characters from Blakes works and takes them on an adventure at Blake's Inn. My favorite selection is titles" The Tiger Asks Blake for a Bedtime Story". The verse on the last page was also memorable."He whose face gives no light will never become a star" by William Blake.
My parents had this book when I was growing up, and I loved it. I've never been one for poetry reading, but the illustrations and Blake's mysterious-sounding poems with their beautiful imagery really drew me in even though I didn't really understand them. I'd like to go back to it and see if it makes any more sense to me now :).
I was surprised at how much I liked this sweet book of poetry. I rushed through it, as I do with most short, illustrated books, but was so delighted I set it on my bedside table to savor when the kids were in bed. That night I read it several times, slowly, and found myself giggling often and the clever word play.
Oh, I had totally forgotten "Tiger Tiger burning bright..." I don't know how long it has been since I'd read some of his poetry. I now need to go back and revisit them. The imagery of the poems is awesome! What a great tool for getting students to imagine the pictures in their heads of what they are reading.
This book is the only book to have recieved BOTH the Newberry Medal and Caldecott Honor. It is made up of 15 different poems all explaining what happens and what is in William Blake's Inn. It is a somewhat magical place with rabbits, cows, and tigers. The poems rhyme every other line and is a very fun read with creative pictures that would make poetry fun for kids in elementary school!
