https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338584.Tarzan_at_the_Earth_s_Core
This was the Tarzan book I really enjoyed. I loved the concept of a "Hollow Earth" with a sun at the centre, and all those monsters.
It involves Tarzan joining an expedition to the hollow world at the Earth’s core, the dinosaur haunted setting of Burroughs Pellucidar novels, to rescue David Innes from the clutches of the Korsars.
It’s an odd book which features a lot of running around, cliff-hanger endings and prehistoric monsters.
Some of it was nostalgia for sure but some of it was the sheer efficiency of Burroughs story-telling and some of it was the pure pulpy joy of reading about adventures in a stone age world full of dinosaurs and sabre-tooth anachronisms.
All I remember about this book now, nearly 45 years later, was Tarzan, an orphan raised by gorillas, in an airship flying around a jungle in the center of the Earth having crazy adventures with a lost civilization. I can only hope there were also dinosaurs.After you read something like this, no idea seems too outlandish.
Tarzan at the Eath's core? Brought by a proto-steampunk dirigible? Fighting mammoths, flying stegosaurus, and Spanish pirates? Man, you'd think this would be right in my wheelhouse. But, tragically, the book... just...wasn't any good. It was one long climax, with each new phase of the adventure getting less exciting and more plain weird. Everything that happened was awfully convenient, and I never felt it was really building toward anything anyway. Poor storytelling, stilted language, and a big disappointment. I give it two stars for the sheer creativity demonstrated, but this didn't make me feel much of anything.
Tarzan at the Earth's Core (Tarzan, #13) (Pellucidar #4) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1929) (Fiction). This book is from a separate series than "Tarzan of the Apes." Tarzan must go to the earth's hollow core in order to save a famous scientist. Along the way he battles monsters and eternal sunlight before saving the day in his own inimical fashion. My rating: 6/10, finished 1973.
This one seemed a natural. Put Tarzan in an even more primitive world.
This one was interesting because it put Tarzan in the prehistoric world of Pellucidar, which seems a perfect match.
It was a little more sci fi than the usual Tarzan stories with some of the inventions, plus the entire point of the expedition was solved in a few pages near the end, although all of the action takes place before then anyway.
The true climax of the book was a whimper rather than a bang.That being said, this was still a good read and if you liked the other Tarzan novels you probably won't be disappointed here.
I mean, after all, Tarzan and...dinosaurs!
All right, I admit, this is not great literature, but it is a terrific Tarzan adventure.
Instead, they build a giant blimp and head out on a high risk adventure to explore the earth's core.
It's amazing - the earth turns out to be hollow with a mini sun suspended in the middle, and animals from all sorts of eras running around.
Apparently gravity is reversed inside the earth's hollow skin, so there is no fear of falling to your death.
A vicious stegosaurus decides to attack and eat our hero, so he spreads his plates flat, leaps from the top of a cliff, and glides down in a deadly flight.
It's actually Tarzan #13, but also Pellucidar #4.
It's actually more relevant to the latter as the main plot is an expedition to rescue Tanar of Pellucidar.Some good pulp era speculative science here.
Once they get there they get split up and the story follows them on their adventures from the two POVs. As you might expect, they all meet up again in the end, the good guy gets the girl etc, etc.I'm going to finish the Pellucidar series as they are not so well known as most of ERB's other works.
I have waited several years to come across a copy of this book (my first foray into author ERB) and it was worth the wait.
This novel is a merger of two of Burroughs' most well-known literary creations, Tarzan and Pellucidar (the timeless world inside the earth; a concept done well I must say).
If you like adventure, here it is!
Readers should be advised, however, that this book falls into the pulp fiction genre (written in 1930).
If, however, you can remember this is just a fictional tale, you are in for a good read.
In this a Californian named Jason Gridley has received a message from Abner Perry from within the center of the earth and enlists Tarzan’s aide to journey there and rescue Davis Innes from a Pelucidar dungeon.Going by how they entered the opening into the center they would have ended up on what basically is the ceiling of the center or underneath our floor.
If it is converse then the angle of the curve would be the same but they would have seen a definite edge to the opening as their passed through what basically would be a hole in the ceiling.
This book is based on the theory that there is a separate world at the earth's core with its own sun, no rotation, constant noon and summer with several groups of pre-humans who speak the language of the mangani.
Tarzan goes with an expedition with a group of people searching for this land with its entry near the north pole hoping to help free the king.
Typical of Tarzan he gets caught---the rest of the story is about the expedition finding each other in time to escape this internal world and return to their own.
I really enjoyed this cross-over of Pellucidar with ERB's most famous hero, Tarzan.
It starts out with amazing pulp tropes - amazing inventions, Tarzan, an airship, an artic opening to the hollow earth, African tribesmen, dinosaurs, etc.
Just amazing in how rich this one book was with those pulp standards.
On the downside, the recurring theme of getting lost in Pellucidar was alive and well.
Thinking their friends are dead?
Thinking the girl you suddenly realize you love hates you?
Losing all your clothes and quickly adapting to a loincloth?
Check.
Check.
Check.
Still, a very fun read.
Pellucidar is an enticing world and this adventure has some fun moments. However it felt very disorganized and was mostly "and then they got lost again." It also wraps up to quicky at the end which always drives me crazy.
In this one, ERB blends Tarzan into his Pellucidar series. Tarzan and Jason Gridley go into the hollow earth world of Pellucidar to rescue Davis Innes, its emperor. Tarzan and his Waziri warriors from Africa get lost. They encounter dinosaurs, etc. A great read that I read back in the 1960's.
Read this and the rest of the Pellucidar series in the 70s. Enjoyable!
Not sure of the timelines for the stories or the writing, but this is the first of Tarzan in Pelicular, I think. Very enjoyable read.
3 out of 5
One of the more fresh and original of the later Tarzan series, not a re-write of the stale generic plots . This one goes in a new direction, literally, as Tarzan is recruited to journey to the earth's core to aid the characters of the Pellucidar series. In this jungle without the usual directions, landmarks, sky, and horizen, Tarzan gets LOST and encounters things, landscapes, and beasts with which he is unfamiliar--we're not ON earth anymore, Toto! This Tarzan that is not like the others.
Gridley has intercepted a radio message in which he learns that an earlier expedition to the earth's core has been successful, and that its leader has established a colony and declared himself Emperor of the inner world.
The inner world is much the same as the outer crust except that it is still in a primitive state, with sabre-tooth tigers, cavemen, etc., and that it is constantly lit by a sun that never sets, hanging at the very centre of the earth, causing the adventurers to lose track of time and direction.
Though his writing evinces more and more social reflection about the nature of man and the wilderness, Tarzan at the Earth's Core has lost some of the wild swashbuckling joy of the earlier books in the series, resorting to a never-ending chase between multiple parties.That said, his skill here is much improved over the earlier stories, even if the narrative material isn't at all fresh--he carefully interweaves several different narrative threads and has paths cross and recross in enjoyable ways.The first 100 pages or so of the book follow a pretty entertaining "everyone suddenly agrees that there must be a hollow world in the middle of the earth and they decide to build an airship out of a propitiously-discovered material and go there" set up, with about fifty pages of action where the heroes, not accustomed to Pellucidar, make book-defining mistakes that set up the rest of the action.

Great ERB.
My favorite three scenes are: 1) the detailed description of a huge pack of saber tooth tigers attacking and destroying a large conglomeration of other animal species for feeding purposes; 2) the nine or ten Waziri warriors opening up with their rifles on the charging man-eating Horibs; 3) Tarzan saving the heroine from a huge Horib by dropping down on it from a tree, and literally beating it to death by lifting it bodily and slamming it up and down on the ground until the detestable creature was lifeless.
His greatest art is his detailed, colorful, artistic descriptions of scenes and landscapes.

Tarzan crosses over into Earth's inner world, Pellicidar.
2) John Carter - here Burroughs brought a richly imagined Mars to life - most of the creatures and customs are highly original - for that, a fun read, even if John Carter himself is boring compared to Tarzan.
3) As for Pellucidar - this felt weakest.
It features basically prehistoric creatures and mixes in tribal this and that, plus priates and vikings - quite a mess and not half as imaginative as the tales of Mars.
No more Pellucidar for me.
The Pelliucidar series is my favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books! He even incorporated Tarzan into this series. This was my first intorduction to Tarzan. I read the Tarzan books after several other series.
This is a crossover between the "Tarzan" series and Burrough's "Pellucidar" Series. Although I've not read any of the latter, I didn't feel particularly lost. Another enjoyable yarn that brings the Lord of the Jungle and his comrades to the world inside of the Earth via a dirigible. Various members of the expedition encounter prehistoric beasts and a number of different tribes under the ever noonday sun of Pellucidar. Great fun!
This was definitely an improvement over book 3, Tanar of Pellucidar. This was the second Tarzan book I'd read, but the fourth Pellucidar book I'd read. While it does fall into the typical Burroughs formula in spots, this is offset by Tarzan's presence which spices things up. Of course it ends with a cliffhanger of sorts and leads pretty much sets up the next book, Back to the Stone Age which again takes the series on an upswing.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
If you have read the other books in the series then this has nothing new or unexpected.It is however another thrilling instalment of the boys own type tale.Sure to some the language used especially concerning black people will be offensive.The book was written however in 1929 and I for one understand that it is a period piece written when values were different.I want to read books as written and not as amended by the PC police so I do find the terms offensive but I understand the context.
