https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7100367-down-below
i need to write about my body
Surrealist painter and writer Leonora Carrington is going sort of insane.
Her partner, one Max Ernst, is sent to a concentration camp, and she begins to perform strange rituals (both visible to others and only visible to her interiority) and make strange connections.
This short book ends ambiguously and one must know about the author's backstory and career living as a successful and magically innovative Surrealist expatriate in Mexico to know that she made it out more or less OKProps to Ms. Carrington for vocalizing the nearly unspeakable in her unique and connected way.
Memorias de abajo.
°Llego a la vida de Leonora sin tener mucha idea de quien era, tan solo me dejé llevar por "el amor a primera vista" que solemos tener muchos cuando vemos un libro.En estas Memorias de Abajo Leonora cuenta una época de su vida bastante dura.
I'm resolved to hunt down whatever I can from her, but she's only got a single book in print (her longer novel, the excellent The Hearing Trumpet), only one collection in the entire circulating New York public library system (House of Fear: Notes From Down Below), and is a tricky quarry on the second hand market.
I'd read this in the library collection before, but that was a revision to this original text and spotting some of the variations in Carrington's own account is pretty interesting.
Even completely untethered from ordinary reality, Carrington seems to have been a surrealist through and through.(Note: reissued in 2017 by the NYRB!)
Leonora is SO great. I love her. And this is an incredible account of madness. A lucid(ish) account of madness from the pen of the 'mad'. But jeez. Max Ernst. What a dick.
«(…) organicé mi propia defensa. Sabía que cerrando los ojos podía evitar la llegada del más insoportable de los sufrimientos: la mirada de los demás.» Reseña en español | Review in English (below)Aunque me ha encantado leer a la propia Leonora Carrington y no solamente sobre Leonora, esperaba que estas memorias sobre su paso por el Sanatorio del doctor Morales en Santander me acercaran más a aquella realidad, pero prácticamente todo este encierro está narrado, tal cual y con más detalles, en L
Eso sí: me apetece seguir leyendo a Carrington, porque creo que sus relatos surrealistas pueden llegar a gustarme mucho.--Although I loved reading something 'written' by Leonora Carrington and not only about her, I was hoping that these memories of Down Below about her confinement in the Sanatorium of Dr. Morales in Santander would bring me closer to her experiences, but practically all this imprisonment is narrated, and even with more details, in Leonora by Elena Poniatowska, so I've felt this book like a rereading.
I’ve been really enjoying Carrington’s short stories, working my way through them very slowly, but this was a bit of a let-down.
At the end it seems to be saying it was dictated to someone, and not actually written by Carrington, which makes sense— it feels like she sat down one afternoon and just told this long crazy story about the time she went crazy, and then it was time for tea and they went their separate ways and none of the depths or crevices of the story were ever investigated.
Illuminating in a biographical way but doesn’t hold a candle to the stories (or the paintings!!).
Easily summed up as the summary notes, "its raw evocation of madness." True story, first person account of getting locked away in an insane asylum in World War II by someone who was pals with art collector Peggy Guggenheim and lovers with Surrealism master Max Ernst.
In fact, you could easily say she was indeed insane based on what you read about the Down Below and the other worlds within the walls, it's really very out there.
It's a work of art by an artist who has mastered the surrealist form in print.
"Waar stopt realiteit en waar begint waanzin?"Een bijzondere kennismaking met een klein gedeelte van het werk van Leonora Carrington.
Door het schrijven van de inleiding door Marina Warner wordt de lezer een kijkje gegund in het leven van Leonora Carrington.
Het nodigt bovendien uit tot het bekijken van meer werk van haar hand.'Beneden' kun je zien als een kunstwerk van deze auteur; ook dit grenst aan het surrealistische.Leonora leeft in de beschreven tijd met de gedachte dat wat zij bedenkt ook realiteit is, hierdoor worden synoniemen een nieuwe waarheid.Haar vertelkunst is uitgebreid, zodat je niets hoeft te missen van haar beleving; je begrijpt wat ze bedoeld heeft.Leonora was geen volgzaam type; haar vader wilde voor haar een huwelijk dat zijn eigen status nog verder zou verhogen maar Leonora weigerde.Na een debutantenbal schokte ze haar ouders door verliefd te worden op de zesentwintig jaar oudere Max Ernst die getrouwd was.Lees mijn recensie hier verder: https://graaggelezen.blogspot.com/201...
Una de dos, o este libro es muy malo, o yo no he entendido nada de nada...
Man that was a bad time.
"I wondered who would help someone, dressed in a bed sheet and a pencil, to get to Madrid."
Vividly, dreamily terrifying.
This is intense and weird in terms of its events but tbh the pacing is the strangest thing about it, it rolls through it all so fast. It just adds to the surrealism though, everything is fluid (fiction + fact, time, place etc etc) and maybe a bit uncanny, and this is what really hooked me in, I think.
Le pongo sólo tres estrellas porque no me ha sorprendido demasiado. En el libro "Leonora", de Elena Poniatowska, está prácticamente contado todo lo que le pasó cuando tuvo una crisis.
Die kern is soms zeer ontroerend, vooral als ze vertelt over haar dieptepunten van de episode, de bizarre gebeurtenissen in het sanatorium (waarvan je nooit zult weten of het interpretatie of realiteit is, en dat is prima), de typisch psychotische associaties en het inzicht dat dit alles geeft in de fascinerende gedachtewereld van iemand met een psychose.
Mocht je ooit serieus willen oefenen in om- en out of the box-denken, dan raad ik dit boek ten zeerste aan (of neem anders een psychose, overwoog ik nog even als advies, maar dat gun ik niemand).Hinderlijker is de introductie van een hoogleraar (?) die - zoals hoogleraren dat doen, uit angst om simpel over te komen, vanwege conventies, om indruk te maken op eenvoudige zielen, ter verbloeming van weinig interessante denkbeelden - op zeer complexe wijze een introductie geeft.
Although this account was apparently dictated, the language is crisp and alive. Carrington recounts her psychosis during a period of the second world war, at which time she was incarcerated in a Spanish mental institution and labeled incurably insane. Her recollection of this time is fascinating because it's such a detailed, lucid report of a prolonged episode of psychosis.
A sleight scrawl that essentially reads as a travel journal in the reluctantly wayfaring spirit of an Eland publication.
It's a smudged snapshot of dystopia, of being jolted, with the associated dementia that rattles around in the wake of a displacement.
Down Below presents the ascent, cold sweat and aftermath of nausea onset by eventual circumstance.
Lyrically, the text is relatively simplistic, but its craft presents the opportunity for divulgence into its meaning.
The translation of unwitting drug induced experience to word is frequent and commendable.Blunt in its presentation, this is a writing that necessarily bleeds itself out to the discomfort of the reader.
I feel so upset that I didn't know anything about Leonora Carrington until I picked up this book.
I felt an immediate urgency about it: a short essay covering her time in a mental institution where she was held against her will and mistreated it takes about an hour to read maybe two and most of that I spent on the really thorough introduction.
I also know very little about Surrealism but I'm definitely going to be following up on some of the leads in this book.
Carrington was ill, she needed treatment but it's terrifying to see how quickly treatment transforms into the abuse of the female body--- and there's some abuse in her day to day life as well.
Adentrarse en la mente de Leonora Carrington, sufrir la incomprensión que la condenó a un sanatorio, excusa para encerrar lo que no podían entender. Es la poderosa imaginación de sus cuadros expresada con palabras. No cabe duda: por sus venas corre el surrealismo.
Too slight
An unstintingly harrowing account of the author's institutionalization and the abuses she endured at a sanatorium in Spain during WWII.
It sets the context for Leonora's suffering.The guilt of wanting to leave her relationship in the setting of Nazi occupied France and having to flee and leave the lover you wanted to leave in a concentration camp would, I'm sure, get the better of us all.I particularly love Leonora's symbolism of unicorns/ white horses.
In my opinion this shows her juxtaposing admiration and disdain for the British society she fled at a tender age which continues to haunt her, especially during her institutionalisation.A must read for anyone who wishes to see the world a little differently.Can be read quickly in one sitting too.
File this one under the same category as Plath’s The Bell Jar and Janet Frame’s Faces in the Water. Leonora challenges the Surrealist obsession & objectification of the ‘femme-enfant’ with her own methodically unromantic experience of madness. In doing so, Carrington creates an important historic document of how mental illness is all too often treated with barbaric, abusive and dehumanizing measures – a reminder that is as uncomfortably true today as it was when she experienced it 75 years ago.
This was a bizarre little book. I chose it for a trip to Spain because it was set there and because Leonora Carrington is one of my favorite artists. Her bizarre work makes much more sense now that I know she suffered some psychiatric disorders, albeit temporary. The introduction was also very interesting but it doesn't attempt to explain what happened with her. It seems strange that she would have such a serious disconnect with reality and then be normal for the rest of her life. I guess I'll have to find a good biograpy.
****Spoilers ahead.
Definitely****Wow. That was disturbing.
I confess I started reading it without knowing anything about the book (and practically nothing about the author).
I thought it was pure fiction until about halfway through, when I read the back cover.
Then it was pretty intense.
And damn, Max Ernst is a d-bag.
Also the tone is interesting.
Not a drop of self-pity or anything along those lines.
If you happen across this book I would recommend picking it up.
If you have an interest in surrealist painters, or in how World War II might affect someone's psyche, then look for it.
The first NYRB book I've read where with each page an increasing desire to set it down was the dominant thought. I've suffered through a ton of surrealist babble - but this might have been the least interesting of it all. If you know the feeling of trying to start your day while your toddler explains a dream in full detail - you know the experience. That she was lucid enough during her insanity to record it with detail and personal insight is interesting. Otherwise - it was well...short.
This book changed my life completely. Leonora was faced with such hardship after being forced to flee Nazi occupied France that it seems absurd to think that she would not lose her mind. Her treatment was degrading and it must have taken her lots of strength to share her captivating story. I was pleased that she managed to find happiness and peace in the end.
if leonora was ever mad, it was because she struggles to make sense of the maddening treatment she went through; and even when she was locked up, tricked, assaulted, she still wanted to believe that her life has a purpose in this world, not just for the humans, but also animals and trees.
So far it feels like a mix between H.D.'s novels and Hannah Weiner's work. Really loving it, this is the first time in a while I've been able to concentrate enough to read prose. I don't know if its this, or just where I'm at right now.
