https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85812.Dialectic_of_Enlightenment
In a world... where the geist is pure evil... and the Fasshou System lurks right around the corner... two unlikely German Jew friends dare... to frighten enlightenment/mythology back into its box.This summer....DIALECTICOFENLIGHTENMENT
Isn't science, at a certain point, based on faith just as much as religion?
Horkdorno (Horkheimer and Adorno) views the achievements of the enlightenment with a gimlet eye, refusing to accept that a forward movement in history equates to positive progress.
Many of the things that are generally accepted to be advances, both technological and cultural, in modern society actually threaten the liberty of the individual.There's a scene in "Deadwood" where Swearengen and someone else are watching the construction of telegraph lines in the distance.
Rather than embracing the new technology, they express a deep fear of what it might bring.
Three things I love here, above all else: a) the collaboration, and the refusal to disentangle themselves from it when others demanded that Horkorno coalesce into two identities: of course reminds me of Deleuze and Guattari, but, for a medievalist, also Marty Shichtman and Laurie Finke; b) the refusal to update the text to reflect the current moment: in this insistence on preserving the text as an intervention into a particular historical moment, Adorneimer refuse to pretend to speak from a position of atemporality ("We do not stand by everything we said in the book in its original form.
Δεν διαθέτω την απαραίτητη θεωρητική, φιλοσοφική "σκευή" ώστε να κρίνω επαρκώς το αριστουργηματικό αυτό βιβλίο που έθαλψε κάποια βράδια της φοιτητικής μου ζωής, πολλά χρόνια πριν.
Είναι προφανώς αμέτρητα τα παραδείγματα, αν και δεν έχει νόημα να αναφερθούν μεμονωμένα, σε ένα κείμενο που βρίθει απαξιωτικών χαρακτηρισμών για το σύνολο της μαζικής κουλτούρας τής σύγχρονης εμπορευματικής κοινωνίας και της "εργαλειακής διάστασης του Διαφωτισμού".
Δεν έχει επίσης κάποια σημασία κατά πόσον την εποχή της νεότητάς μου ταυτιζόμουν άκριτα με το περιεχόμενο του έργου αυτού.
Όχι γιατί η σκέψη των συγγραφέων του ξεπεράστηκε, αλλά διότι δεν θα μπορούσαν οι Τιτάνες να χωρέσουν στην Προκρούστεια κλίνη τής εποχής της "ασημαντότητας".
Completely overrated. I'm shocked this book has had the influence it's had. It is bombastic and tendentious, a completely one-sided (abstract) view of the Englightenment and its implications -- with consequences that Adorno himself recoiled from (in 1968). And all his 'philosophical' 'reflections' on 'nature' and 'myth' are nothing but Central European rubbish -- without meaning or sense ('nonsense', as Wittgenstein would say). Very disappointing.
The most poorly written, ego-maniacal, self-important, masturbatory piece of shit that I have ever read. Horkheimer and Adorno? If you were alive, I would punch you both in the testicles.
Proof that nothing gets pseudo-intellectuals salivating more quickly than non-sensical rants.
کتاب دیالکتیک روشنگری نوشتهٔ آدورنو و هورکهایمره. این کتاب رو دونفری نوشتهند و توش گفتهند که روشنگری شکست خورده و به اون چیزی تبدیل شده که از آغاز به مبارزه باهاش برخاست. موضوعات اصلی کتاب دلایل شکست روشنگری و تاثیراتش بر روی فرهنگ و جامعه، اسطوره و اسطوره شدن علم و خود روشنگری و جالبتر از همه صنعت فرهنگه. تو فصل صنعت فرهنگ میاد میگه فرهنگ هم مثل بقیه صنایع سرمایهداری و عصر مدرنیته یک سری چیز شبیه هم تحویل میده که کاملا خالی از معنا شدهند و همگی موید نظام موجودند و هرچقدر هم رادیکال باشند باز هم
این کتاب رو دونفری نوشته‌ند و توش گفته‌ند که روشنگری شکست خورده و به اون چیزی تبدیل شده که از آغاز به مبارزه باهاش برخاست.
کتاب خیلی جالبیه و با اینکه ممکنه به نظر بدبینانه و شور بیاد مثلا آسیب‌هایی که به فرهنگ و کالاشدگی‌ش منسوب می‌کنه خیلی دقیق و به نظر من عین حقیقت‌اند.
اما گاف کتاب اینه که متنش اصلا و ابدا روان نیست.
کل این کتاب می‌شه گفت یک انشای بلنده، شعر می‌شه، اوج می‌گیره و خطابه می‌گه.
This, I feel, is a statement superlative to the Minima Moralia in the Adorno catalog.
The classist overtones that damage so much of that book are less ingrained here, and we get what I feel to be a much more open philosophy.
Whenever I read these old Frankfurt School dudes, there's this weird sense of tragedy, as if they were the last line of defense against the brutal forces of late capitalist alienation.
That said, this is also the Frankfurt School's coming-of-age statement, admitting the culpability of the Enlightenment in the society of mass destruction.
Adorno had only one place that he wanted to go to for answers, and that was music, specifically, and the aesthetic moment in general.
Adorno was accused of being an academic mandarin toward the end of his life and I would contend that it was undeniable that he was an elitist in that he thought very few could educate and discipline themselves for that possible creative moment of aesthetic awareness.
Adorno's way was the way of many in the philosophical tradition: you need the conventions to get you up to snuff, and then you have to destroy them.
There only real philosophical problem they had with the Nazis is that they chose ‘the wrong myths’ (they say that kind of thing while defending myths multiple times).You know that neighbor that lives next to you the one you describe as ‘the old fart’ the one who doesn’t really like kids walking across their yard and thinks the birds make too much noise when they sing?
Essentially that means one old fart [Bloom] was influenced by another old fart [Adorno and Frankfurt School] leading to the pseudo-intellectual old fart [Brooks] thinking the best intellectual since Homer and his Odyssey is Peterson.
دوست داشتنی؛ تنها واژه ای که می توان درباره این کتاب نوشتاصولا گرایش و علاقه من به نویسندگان و اهالی مکتب فرانکفورت، ناشی از نگاه جامع و فراتر از زمان آنها به وقایع و البته تجربیات تاریخی است
I'm sympathetic to the themes, but this book was the high water mark of continental philosophy for me.
If the Enlightenment, rationality, and language have codified and standardized experienced and reduced human capacity for magic in modernity, then okay.
But distrusting language does not mean one needs to write like an obscurantist poet, nor quote Homer instead of explaining one's ideas in clear prose.I resented this book for pushing me toward the analytic tradition's frustration with continental philosophy.
At the time of reading this I was frustrated with the lack of continental understanding within the analytic circles in which I traveled, but this book cured me of that inclination.
This translation, by John Cumming, is tough sledding - the textual equivalent of chopping onions, reducing the pungent-yet-aesthetically-Kremlinesque whole bulb into little blocky niblets that scatter and stick to the cutting board whilst still making your eyes water. Edmund Jephcott did such a lovely job with Walter Benjamin's Reflections and Adorno's Minima Moralia that I have little doubt his more recent rendering of DOE into English would be well worth spending the extra bucks.
Fuck that was tough.
This can be juxtaposed as a transition through three mimetic phases: (1) the pre-mimetic stage, where men submit to nature for his incapability in comprehending its angst; just like how a prey plays dead in the face of its predator, (2) the mimetic stage, where men relationship to nature is symmetrical one conjured by the act of mimesis; such is expressed by H&A through an anthropological metaphor: "Magician imitates demons; to frighten or placate them he makes intimidating or appeasing gestures" (DE, 9), and (3) the enlightened stage, where men are ultimately capable to utilise reason to dominate nature (in other word, the phase where the radical separation between subject and object is finally realised).
Ama zorluğu oranında da farklı düşünme imkanları sunduğu için, o dünyaya zorlayarak da olsa girmeye değiyor bence.Kitap doğrusal olarak okunup bitirmeye pek uygun bir kitap değil.
Farklı bir okuma pratiği ve anlama imkanı sağlıyor kesinlikle.Üçüncü bölüm; 'Juliette ya da Aydınlanma ve Ahlak', Sade'e zaten ilgi ve merakım var, Juliette'i okuduktan sonra bu bölüme tekrar döneceğim.Dördüncü bölüm; 'Kültür Endüstrisi' kitabın bu bölümü İletişim Yayınları tarafından ayrıca bir kitap olarak basılı, daha önce okumuştum.
İletişim çevirisi daha akıcı bana kalırsa.
Bu kitabı da ayrıca öneririm.Diğer bölüm de; 'Antisemitizm ve Ögeleri' ve kitabın sonunda da Adorno'nun birçok şeye dair taslakları ve notları var.
"لا شك لدينا أنه لا يمكن فصل حرية المجتمع عن الفكر التنويري،الا اننا نعتقد أن مفهوم هذا الفكر بالتحد
الرجوع للنسخة الإنجليزية كان ضروريا بالنسبة لي في بعض الفقرات بسبب عدم وضوح ترجمتها، الكتاب جميل في أسلوبه وطابع اليأس مفهوم من ظروف كتابته الحاصلة لمفكري مدرسة فرانكفورت وقت صعود النازية والفاشية وأعتقد أنه لحظة فارقة لموت تفاؤل الدياليكتك واليسار ونهاية التفكير المبشر بالتقدم والتنوير قبل ظهور مابعد الحداثة.
The culture industry, Adorno argues, plays a big role in cementing its consumers to capitalism.
It sells the ideals as unattainable by creating exalted icons to embody them, but at the same time it presents the ideals as something that could be possessed through consumption.
The consumers buy the representative commodity, knowing full well that they could never actually attain the ideal, and resign themselves to the momentarily satisfaction of possessing its representation to fill the gap between them and the unattainable ideal.
And so a never-fulfilling consumption cycle that dominates the consumers begins.
Finally finished this. Is it a cruel paradox that I had a lot of fun reading a work where 'fun' is a mass deception-commodity at best? Probably.
The thought which leads to knowledge is neutralized and used as a mere qualification on specific labor markets and to heighten to commodity value of the personality"The Dialectic of Enlightenment was published in 1944 and despite the clunky long winded prose that characterizes most of the book it provides some critical insights which have immediate relevance in the 21st century.Adorno and Horkheimer explore the interchangeability of victims and perpetrators of racial or religious violence, the mindset of totalitarianism that led to the Holocaust, the cultural monopoly of mass media and pseudo individuality as the new non-conformity yet the writing is so painfully tortuous that at times I wondered whether getting to the end of this book would be worth the loss of time that could never again be regained.Adorno describes the isolation caused by technological advancement and how uniformity can operate as a mechanism to alienate the individual within the collective system.
I think this is a very important and underrated book in the contemporary hightech world.
After reading the book, you think differently about our blind belief that science will solve everything.
Although I think it is a very strong book, I do have some downsides: the way in which Adorno and Horkheimer are discussing Kant is in my point of view not really correct.
I think that is a misinterpretation, but i don't blame Adorno and Horkheimer for this because they were logically affected by terrible world wars, that predominated their lives.
Sujets aux modes de quand il a été écrit il regorge de terminologie ethnographique abandonnée peu après, doublement ironique quand ils moquent Willamowitz qui souhaite continuer d'analyser les grecs en termes grecs plutôt que de plaquer dessus les étiquettes en vogue de "mana", "totem", "orenda", etc.
Leur discussion de la production industrielle des biens culturels est au moins presciente pour l'époque, même si aujourd'hui banale, et les aphorismes finaux sont plus éclairants, peut-être de par la nature des aphorismes, mais ils balancent un peu un discours inutilement sophistiqué.
I say a mess because Adorno & Horkheimer’s writing seems almost deliberately difficult to read: they assume that you possess a great deal of antiquated cultural knowledge (though this isn't necessarily their fault, given the book is 73 years old), they often make bold assertions seemingly out of nowhere, and besides the many gorgeously penned phrases, their writing can be like wading through a swamp (at least in the Cumming translation).
I’ll openly take my share of the blame for that, this is certainly a difficult work to get into—but I do also think that this book is, at times, poorly written (again this might be the translation).
A very dense reading. A must read if you are interested in the Frankfurt School. The central argument is that reason (science, tecnique) is an instrument of domination. The book severely criticizes Kant. The authors bring a very pessimistic view of humankind, probably influenced by the atrocities of the Second World War period. It should be interesting to read Habermas after Adorno in order to contextualize some ideas and to follow the developments of the Frankfurt thinking.
Ein großer Hund steht am Highway. Die Menschen distanzieren denkend sich von Natur, um sie so vor sich hinzustellen, wie sie zu beherrschen ist. Die Anrufung der Sonne ist Götzendienst. Indem sich dem Mädchen die Aussicht auf den Job eröffnet, versperrt sich ihr die Liebe. Ich bin soweit, sagt Juliette zum Papst, wie Tiberius zu wünschen: oh hätte die Menscheit nur EINEN Kopf (welche Lust, ihn abzuschlagen). Alle mystische Vereinigung bleibt Trug – Dummheit ist ein Wundmal – ewig stampft die Jazz-Maschine.
متن کتاب خیلی ثقیل بود و دقیقا به این دلیل این زبان انتخاب شده بود که مخاطب یک روشنفکر در نظر گرفته شده بود، نه هر مخاطبی روشنگری موفق نشد به اهداف روشن خودش یعنی سروری آدمی و افسون زدایی از دنیا و زدودن ترس برسه و دقیقا به همین خاطر هست که برخلاف تصورش با اسطوره عجینهبخش مربوط به سیرن ها و ترس از آهنگ اسطوره ای شون رو خیلی دوست داشتم
It is the first one of its genre which everyone had to wait Debord's masterpiece for 20 years then...
Adorno's criticisms seem dated, and much of what he says I've already learned through Arendt and Theweleit.
