https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175004.Eagle_Strike
Gone is the little Alex Rider had left of his childhood, because from now on he won’t know who to trust.
I won’t say more about the ending, because you must experience it for yourself first.
Though that’s exactly what I’m doing right now about the previous volumes – were there signs?
Plus some people that have come in contact with him are being killed one by one.Unlike in the previous volumes however, MI6 does not believe Alex Rider when he tells them that there is something wrong about Damian Cray, that he is not who he claims to be.
Eagle Strike (Alex Rider, #4), Anthony HorowitzEagle Strike is the fourth book in the Alex Rider series written by British author Anthony Horowitz.
It is set mostly in Southern France, Paris, Amsterdam, and London.Alex Rider series Novels: Stormbreaker آرک اینجل و دوصفر هیچ, Point Blanc مدرسه شوم, Skeleton Key جزیره اسکلتی و گذرگاه اسکلتی, Eagle Strike حمله عقاب, Scorpia اسکورپیا, Ark Angel, Snakehead سر مار, Crocodile Tears, Scorpia Rising, Russian Roulette, Never Say Die, Nightshade.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهارم ماه مارس سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: ضربه عقاب؛ نویسنده: آنتونی هوروویتس؛ مترجم: مهدی قراچه داغی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ایرانبان، 1388، در 280 ص، شابک: 9789642980000؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 21 مآلکس رایدر نود دقیقه فرصت دارد تا دنیا را نجات دهد.
آلکس مصمم است با کسانی که به خانه ی دوستش حمله کرده اند، مقابله کند.
I was not expecting the huge twist in this book and this has opened up a whole new range of ideas that i have in my head and i can't wait to see were this story goes.
Plot:  As i said i did not expect the huge twist that has come out of this book and Alex learning about what his uncle really was to me was a huge shock.
This story was full of twist and turns but one thing that i loved is that the fourth book went back to the basics of the first book in the series and i feel like i started to enjoy the series again.
I'm short on time today, but, this was a fun action/adventure novel.
Alex Rider is a teen spy for MI6, British intelligence.
Eagle Strike is the fourth addition to the Alex rider Adventures by Anthony Horowitz.In Eagle Strike, Alex Rider gets acquainted with Damian Cray.
Anthony Horowitz has created a great plot once again.Damian Cray is focused on greed and power, but Alex is focused on stopping Damian Cray from ruining the world.
The reason for this is that it is about a teen that is trying to save the world.
In this book Anthony Horowitz creates a world of suspense and action.
Another fantastic book in the Alex Rider series!I don't have much to say that's not a spoiler, though...(view spoiler)[I love Yassen.
I remember first reading this book and having to wait for the next one to come out...
and ever since then, my sisters and I have chosen to ignore The Ending.YASSEN IS STILL ALIVE.
HE'S OUT THERE SOMEWHERE AND HE'S GOING TO BECOME GOOD AND HE'S GOING TO MEET ALEX AGAIN ONE DAY AND BECOME A FATHER FIGURE AND I DON'T KNOW, OKAY???
I JUST NEED YASSEN TO BE ALIVE.I know this book is about Alex.
Yassen deserved more.
I think each book in this series gets better and better. Eagle Strike continues the fast paced action. I found the book got a bit slow in the middle, but it certainly finishes with a bang. Off to get Scorpia now!
I decided to read the book Eagle Strike because I have read all the previous books in the series and they were quite interesting.2.
An interesting character in the story is Damian Cray.
He is a very famous pop singer who is a very influential person to the world, as he has met people like the queen and the president of the USA.
He is interesting because he is different to your average villain.
Eagle Strike made me think about pop stars in the world today, and if there were any people in the world like Damian Cray.
Eagle Strike is about a fourteen year old boy, Alex, who is horrified when he sees a known assassin near Alex's vacation resort.
Alex investigates and unearths a plot of mass destruction by Sir Damian Cray, a famous singer and philanthropist bent on improving the world by bombing countries and locations where drugs originate.
At first, I was pulled into the plot and quite enjoyed how Alex foils Cray's attempts to contain Alex.
But as I got toward the end, I was disappointed with how unbelievable the plot twists happened.
Sorry, it would have been a 4 1/2 out of five, except for the disappointing end.
Eagle Strike is book 4 in the series.This was a good read, although it was a bit slow which put me off at times. I wasn't expecting that little bit at the end either.
For a lot of the book I was trying to guess who the men were, and I was surprised to learn that (view spoiler)[ the younger man was Yassen and the older man was Alex's father!
In the previous books it felt like they could have been standalone novels, but in this one we get a piece of information that leads to the plot of another book.I actually liked the antagonist in this book, Damian Cray.
We learn an important piece of information in this novel which will no doubt be the basis for whatever happens in book five.
This novel contains explosives, high speed chases, gun fights, assassinations, murders, real life video games, plane crashes and hostage situations, while all being completely predictable and boring.
One of the most famous pop stars, Damian Cray, is planning a world catastrophe, and is stopped by no other than Alex Rider, who has survived his sadistic real life video game, has escaped over 50 guards and a top security system, broke out of Cray’s prison more than once, and manages to crash and airplane and kill more than three of the craziest people on Earth, one of them being Damian Cray, and one of them being a contract killer.
Eagle Strike by Anthony Horowitz is about a fourteen year old boy named Alex Rider who works for MI6, which is like the CIA.
But this time Alex doesn’t have the help from MI6 because they think Damian Cray is innocent because he is a very successful pop star and he gives tons of money to charities.
I chose this book because I have read some of the other Alex Rider adventures and liked them a lot.
I’ve read a lot of books and the Alex Rider series has been my favorite.
Having read 4 of the books in the Alex Rider series, Eagle Strike has to be one of my favorites.
Alex Rider, a 14 year old spy, believes that Damian Cray, the world's most famous pop singer who is always donating to charity and wants world peace, is up to something no good.
He goes to the MI6 but they don't believe that a person like Cray would be attempting something bad.
Alex then goes on a crazy journey to get himself "noticed" by Cray to be able to investigate more.
But of course, Alex seems like he never needs any help from anyone
5*In my opinion the best book of the entire series.
Most alex rider books have a set up in the beginning for about 30 pages before the action starts, but this one starts off with a bang pretty quickly.
What really made this book stand out above the rest was that every single transition from action scene to action scene was entertaining.
The video game scene was so freaking epic!The pacing for this book was relentless.
You know the climax in every book.
Every single scene in this book was the climax.
Barely any transition between scenes.
So this time Alex is enjoying vacation in france with his friend's family when tragedy strikes and Alex is again thrown amongst the danger. The difference is that this time MI6 is no where in the picture as they don't believe him when he provides his facts about another villains who is hidden behind mirror of charity. Alex runs around trying to solve the mystery and solve it he does like every time and that too in a very nice way. Way to go Alex.
Love this series! Lot's of action, gadgets and eccentric rich dudes who want to explode things. Alex is a kid of few words, but I think his deadpan one liners are so perfect. This is a definite turning point in the series and I am so looking forward to the rest.
Same story boy wonder saves the day. Tried shutting off my brain for a while but I just couldnt do it.
Read with one of my students.
He takes a taxi to Damian’s house and when he arrives he walks through the gates and goes through the front door and there was Damian and Yassen he thought they would let her go but they didn’t.
Also the man that tried to kill him ended up being a psycho and Alex was the one who had to fix things.
Also Damian tries to set of nuclear missiles to help save the world from drugs but is killing millions in he process.
why, why would you do this to methe whole concept was bad.......super bad...Hijacking air force one? are you high on camel farts?oh so destroy Pakistan and Afghanistan but don't destroy Mexico.nope.I'm kinda regretting buying the whole series i hated this booknow like this review or ill steal your cookies
"Do you really have it in you, Alex? Can you make your finger obey You? Can you kill me?" Eagle Strike. Fourth book in the Alex Rider series. A lot of adventure and fast pace throughout. We finally get to know a bit about Alex's background. More awaits in the next book.
The plot twist at the end is kinda expected but in an unexpected way.
It was typical Alex Rider which as always was really really amazing!
this was awesome!!! they just get better every book!
I think that this book is really good because it's thriller and thats what I like and it is page turning. If you like it you can read the whole series and it can funny sometimes.
Eagle Strike, Spy Fiction, Anthony Horowitz, 338 Pages.In the book Eagle Strike Alex Rider is a teen spy that is sent on missions.
The main characters are Damian Cray, Alex Rider, and Yassen Grigorovich.
Alex must escape from his crazy uncle Damian Cray.
Alex Rider is my favorite character because he shows a lot of determination by him being the youngest spy in the organization and the bad guys would not expect him to be a spy.
It is like a roller coaster from the beginning with a lot of twists and turns.
Are these name meant to relate to the story or on his class of "agentness". I still would like to see the move of this and rate it again.
I really like this series yet this one was the best yet.
It was full of action from the beginning, it was the best start in my opinion.
Not sure how Alex is still 14, 4 books in, and it seems like only a few months have gone by, the timeline doesn't seem great, but still a fabulous book.Alex has a great way of working through problems, and I like how people still underestimate him, you think by now people wouldn't.
Yassen seems to be the only one who sees his true worth.The story is always new and exciting, I am very much looking forward to seeing what happens next in the next one.4 out of 5 stars
Anthony Horowitz, a British author outdoes himself with another amazing sequel in the Alex Rider series.
In 2003 Horowitz published another sequel to his best selling series, Eagle Strike.
Persuing and spying on Damian Cray, Alex is captured and finds himself in a life like simulation of the game Damien Cray created.
Later in the novel Alex and Sabina find themselves hostages of Damian Cray as he launches plan EAGLE STRIKE.
Fasten your seatbelts because the book takes readers on an addicting, breathless, rollercoaster that you want to never end.
That is definitely the way to leave the readers wanting more and looking forward to the other books in the series.
