https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1094332.The_Bishop_Murder_Case
S. Van Dine, apesar de ter na estante um outro livro por ler do autor (O caso do colar desaparecido).
Confesso que não me encheu as medidas, apesar de ter criado empatia com o detective amador Philo Vance, personagem que, pelo que percebo, praticamente presente em todas as obras do autor.Philo Vance é chamado pelo procurador do distrito judicial logo que o corpo com uma flecha cravada no peito de Cock Robin aparece.
Vance estabelece logo a referência a uma conhecida lengalenga infantil da Mãe Gansa e começa a investigar o crime a partir daí.No entanto, o assassino revela ter uma mente perversa e mata desenfreadamente.
In this particular book, once again New York is gripped by fear as a series of blood tingling deaths sweep the public imagination.
Not the sort of thing that makes the average person lock their doors in fear at night.Much of the books is, as is common in murder mysteries, smoke and mirrors used in order to distract the reader from the identity of the culprit.
As is increasingly true in Vance stories the need for much smoke and many mirrors is exacerbated by the fact that little detection is carried out by the police.
The Bishop Murder Case is my first Philo Vance mystery.
I’m now a total Philo Vance fanboy.The plot is fiendishly complicated even by the standards of Golden Age mysteries, involving a killer who is basing his murders on nursery rhymes!
Van Dine also manages to tie in mathematics and the latest (by 1928 standards) advances in physics, as well as chess.
I also found it intriguing that even though it conforms to most of the accepted rules for a Golden Age mystery it also manages to be a psychological mystery, something that was pretty unusual in 1928.
Nice book. Well written. I like the story. It is quite interesting.
I give up. I can't finish this book. I'm stuck on page 145, so I did try. Philo Vance might be charming and debonair onscreen, as played by William Powell in a series of 1930s films, but this is just dull. Vance-of-the-book is smarmy and yet flat at the same time. I don't even know how you do that. There are some painfully dated stereotypes trotted out here, too, about people with physical disabilities being emotionally stunted. Bah humbug. Back to the library you go, miserable, snootypants detective.
This book bears the feature of these 2: a Golden Age thriller mix with H.G.Wells' work (e.g. The time machine).
I say easily because even though there was a twist at the end, anyone who is familiar with the Golden Age's works can identify what was really hidden behind the pages that the author created.The culprit I won't say anything (since it was not very convincing to me), but the detective is another deal.
He was describe as not only "Sherlock Holmes" type, from the narrator which was obviously mimic Dr. Watson, but also have a vast knowledge, from psychology, art, plays, and even advanced science (Math and Physic).
The book is heavy with higher mathematics and chess references. still understandable even if you are neither a mathematician nor a chess player. As usual, plenty of irrelevant footnotes. Still, a good mystery with some clever twists at the end.The description of the archery range plan in Chapter 2 cries out for the customary S. S. Van Dine crime scene map, but (in my edition at least) it does not appear until Chapter 18 (p. 241 in the spiderweb binding edition). So if you are just starting the book, check ahead to Chapter 18 for the crime scene map.
In a mystery novel where most of the suspects are mathematicians, Philo Vance asserts that mathematicians, working on astronomy or microscopic physics cannot help embracing the materialistic atheistic philosophy.
When reading a mystery novel I usually feel a little cheated if I am able to discover who the guilty person is at the same time or before the detective.
This has happened to me in this novel, where I discovered the plot exactly at the same time as Philo Vance.
S.S. Van Dine's "Philo Vance" detective books are a weird love of mine.
The books were written in the late 1920s/early 1930s and are quite stylized in their way.
Vance is BFFs with the attorney general, and involves himself in murder mysteries mostly as an intellectual exercise.
The books are notable for including fold out maps of murder locations, diagrams of murder rooms, and Vance's affected "quaint" language.
Despite the dated language and style, despite the improbability of various elaborate murder scenarios, and multi-page intellectual showboating, I still love these books.
The suspects are all independently wealthy, and spend their time in archery clubs and elaborate chess tournements.
S S van Dine's Philo Vance is one of the heroes of my youth.
I remember stumbling on him in the tiny library in my home town, published in a heavy leather binding and one whole summer I immersed myself in his urbane and witty sleuthery.
Van Dine has a set of rules for all mystery writers that he believes need to be respected.
I got this volume from a 12 book set of van Dine's work from the Kindle store for $6.99.
Set in the 30s these are the precursors to much of American mystery.
Highly recommended for mystery readers and writers.
O primeiro livro da nova colecção da Vampiro.
O detective amador Philo Vance resolve um conjunto de crimes perpetrados pelo enigmático 'Bispo'.
Um romance policial escrito em finais dos anos 20 do século XX e transposto para o cinema em 1930.
Um personagem inteligentíssimo, que tanto discorre sobre filosofia, como sobre xadrez, astronomia ou matemática e mesmo sem nunca ter visto o filme, podia vê-lo na minha mente.Sendo que esta nova edição segue o novo AO, podiam ter tido mais cuidado em corrigir frases que foram traduzidas incorrectamente e com expressões de cariz espanhol, que em Portugal não é hábito usar.
I loved the plot but I felt terrible about the translation...
It felt as if it was either very poorly done from the English original, or sometimes it even read as if the translator had used a Spanish translation...
Not the good, clear Portuguese that I would have enjoyed reading...
In facrt, if I had it, I would better have read the original English version.The plot has a lot to do with Mother Goose children's rhymes, which adds to the horrific factor of the successive murders.
Very interesting, the first book by S.S. Van Dine that I read!maria Carmo,Lisbon 13 January 2017
Solid 5 - major SSVan Dine fan so not much he could do wrong for me. Vance the ultimate detective - enlightened, intelligent & witty diletttant. van Dine was the golden age of detection and to this day he tops my list of detective work sans amour. Current detective stories seem to miss the overall allure & appeal Vance possessed Yes, times have passed yet I find comfort in Vance and his side kick - VanDine for solving a crime and dinner at the club.
I did see the plot twist coming, otherwise the story wouldn't make sense. A really good one. Vance is just hilarious.
Sarà che più proseguo nelle mie letture più divento incontentabile, sarà che gli splendidi gialli di John Dickson Carr mi hanno abituata troppo bene, ma devo confessare che L'enigma dell'alfiere di S.S. Van Dine, uno dei maestri del giallo classico, non mi ha particolarmente entusiasmata.
Non c'è un briciolo di azione, non c'è alcuna evocazione di spazi e ambientazioni, e soprattutto, non c'è uno spiraglio di atmosfera, quell'atmosfera data appunto dalla descrizione dello sfondo, o di qualche aspetto della trama o della caratterizzazione dei personaggi, in grado di distinguere il romanzo.Il quale, alla fin fine, complice anche il ruolo che ha la matematica nella vicenda, risulta un po' piatto.

mother goose :)
Δεν το περίμενα να μου αρέσει τόσο πολύ, μπράβο.
Days when if a vital "clew" was discovered (like a chess piece) not only was fingerprinting not even considered, but everyone and his grandmother was allowed to handle the evidence.A young, white, rich man named Robin has been murdered and now everyone goes around quoting some child's rhyme about a Robin killed by Sparrow with his Arrow.
I can't believe a city as big as New York would be so torn up over two measly murders.Van Dine gets a little carried away with himself, describing these rather genteel crimes as "the most sinister, the most bizarre, the seemingly most incomprehensible, the most terrifying...
o segredo da fórmula de S.S. Van Dine (e que abrange todos os bons policiais) passa por restringir o mistério a um círculo restrito de personagens e a trocar-nos constantemente as voltas sobre elas.
Nota apenas para esta reedição, n.º 1 da nova coleção Vampiro: se bem que os directores desta segunda série tenham dito que as novas traduções são cuidadas, aqui encontramos muitos erros de ortografia e de pontuação, além de alguns brasileirismos (os primeiros livros, na série original, eram traduções brasileiras adaptadas para cá - E "Os Crimes do Bispo" foi o 8.º volume da Vampiro original) que estão muito próximos daquela fronteira aceitável da utilização do gerúndio em português de Portugal.
Mas que venham mais e melhores volumes!
Van Dine - an alias of Willard Huntington Wright - is actually portrayed as Vance’s partner, who faithfully describes his master’s genius, ranging from fine arts, philosophy and history, to mathematics, a common area where several of the main characters meet, providing a bit of the intellectual background of this excellent play.
Rich character depiction, interesting plot twists and a fine sense of narrative pacing make “The Bishop Murder Case” an excellent choice in this genre.
Philo Vance is a wealthy aristocrat who assists District Attorney and friend Markham investigate murder mysteries.
The Book is set in 1928 New York.
Murders are committed based around nursery rhymes.
The first murder of a Mr Joseph Cocharne Robin is found pierced by an arrow and a note with an extract from the nursery rhyme, "Who killed cock robin?".
Subsequent murders are committed based around nursery rhymes and Markham and Vance must solve the case.
Really love the setting of New York in the 1920's and the writing leaves you guessing up until the end of who might be the murderer.
Perfectly serviceable murder mystery.
Some similarities to the previous entry in the series, with successive victims from the same large home or small neighborhood.
After a while you think these people would be smart enough to leave town instead of waiting around to get offed, but perhaps not.
I surmise he Van Dine received criticism for this in the previous entry and tried to rectify the issue with apparent suicides, suspects in jail, and other false stops and starts.
But I would call his efforts only partially successful.
Nevertheless, the resolution was surprising, as well the process to reach that resolution.
Philo Vance is the detective in this story. It involves the murder of a man at an archery range and a killer who calls himself "The Bishop". The Bishop taunts the police and Philo with nursery rhyme clues. Suspects become plentiful and the clues scarce. Eventually Philo develops a plan to reveal the murderer. But like all good mysteries it is not who you suspected. A couple of these Philo Vance mysteries were made into movies starring William Powell in the 1930s. When I read these books I always see William Powell as Philo Vance.
This case is much like the previous Philo Vance.
A series of murders takes place in which only a very few suspects can be involved, but the murder scene is not so tightly shut as to be a locked room mystery.
The murders are built around Mother Goose rhymes: Cock Robin, etc.
There is much mathematical about the solution to these murders including a moderately long passage near the end that I don't think I understood 50% of.
All in all, a good mystery -- I was sure I had it figured out only to have revealed the final red herring.
Good fun, and apparently the first murder mystery involving a series of murders linked to a nursery rhyme or other external pattern: if it wasn't for THE BISHOP MURDER CASE we wouldn't have novels like AND THEN THERE WERE NONE or films like SEVEN. Philo Vance is a usually engaging hero detective, but his insistence on high theoretical discourse gets very tiresome, like reading a bad textbook. Still, there's a lot of enjoyment and interest to be had here.
Giallo classico e didattico... troppo! Il protagonista di questo filone risulta seguire uno schema estremamente rigido, non commette errori, ha una conoscenza didattica (esagerata) di qualsiasi cosa. Anche la falsa riga seguita dall'assassino riguardante lo schema da seguire per gli omicidi sembra essere frutto di una serie di coincidenze estremamente tirate per i capelli. Abbastanza godibile, ma la rigidità fa risultare il romanzo estremamente datato.
Sono stata molto delusa da questo romanzo “giallo”. Da un libro di questo genere, ovviamente, non è che mi aspetti mai molto, se non una decente e onesta lettura di svago. E, infatti, le precedenti due prove di S.S. Van Dine mi erano piaciute, in questo senso. Mi riferisco a “La strana morte del signor Benson” a “La canarina assassinata”. Qui, invece, ho trovato il tutto molto fumoso e poco plausibile.
Em primeiro lugar, seja bem vinda de novo Coleção Vampiro! Fazem falta livros policiais como estes. A estreia desta nova vaga da coleção correspondeu embora não seja uma obra-prima - mas também não é essa a área de publicação desta coleção! Um tradicional livro policial, com assassínios, mentes brilhantes, um culpado no fim, e muita... matemática! Improvável, só mesmo a quantidade de mentes brilhantes que se juntam num mesmo enredo, de resto, lê-se bem!
4th in the Philo Vance mystery series set during April 2-26, 1929. Vance, an independently wealthy college educated, amateur detective, uses his deductive skills and psychological knowledge to help his New York City District Attorney friend to unravel a series of sinister and bizarre nursey rhyme murders associated with three families who are all neighbors. His methods are unconventional and go against the more rigid police investigative methods and lawyer legal requirements.
