https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133906.The_Collected_Poems
I am insanely in love with Langston Hughes' poetry. My favorite:What happens to a dream deferred?Does it dry uplike a raisin in the sun?Or fester like a sore--And then run?Does it stink like rotten meat?Or crust and sugar over--like a syrupy sweet?Maybe it just sagslike a heavy load.Or does it explode?
Simply amazing. The poet grows before your eyes. From simple poems to lynchings, to communism, to the realization that democracy and Jim Crow should not have anything in common. A powerful and moving voice.

It's a comprehensive anthology of Langston Hughes' poems, that's all you need to know.
Insightful, Timeless, Heartfelt, Realistic & Compelling! A Powerful & Beautiful Read! I Loved It!
To my shame, I'd never heard of Langston Hughes before this year (don't judge me too harshly; I bet you've never heard of Witi Ihimaera). It's kind of bleedin' obvious, but wow, amazing!I didn't like the actual book too much; the binding was poor and quite a few pages popped out, and I didn't like the font, or some of the section title page layouts. The four stars reflects very much my rating of this particular physical book, not the poetry. Which is a ten. I'd recommend buying a different edition.
For the most part, I felt like a poser whilst reading it – I hadn’t really experienced the oppression or suffering in my fourteen years of life that Arna Bontemps and Claude McKay were describing.
It made me vaguely uncomfortable to try to understand – how could I, an Asian teen living in the mostly-Caucasian suburbs and attending a predominantly Hispanic school, understand the woes and triumphs of a black man fighting for human rights in 1920s Harlem?But then I got to Hughes.***What happens to a dream deferred?Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun?
Beyond color, beyond era, this man sings a song of life which is in harmony with the music of my thoughts: it pulls me through the day-to-day drudgery, it whips me from my laziness and sadness, it ignites my rage against inhumanity, it laughs with my joy, and it shows me how to celebrate a life in all of its moments.
Each of us has a poet or poetry that will speak to us if we allow it to.
Hughes is my poet.
Find him or find your own, but do yourself the favor of discovering that sweet song that blends with your own internal music.
Well the poem Mother to Son by Langston Hughes did that exact thing to me.
It was that the mother's life was really rough, she didn't want her son to go through what she went through.The Imagery, Man !
Being a mother and growing up, having a hard life of course you wouldn't want your child having to deal with the something.
Most people still this day can relate to how realistic Mother to Son is, anybody's mom can sit their child down and tell their child how rough their life was, just imagine all the hard times your mom went through.
When I teach American Lit., and more specifically the Harlem Renaissance, Hughes resonates with students more than any other. He has the ability to define the American identity, particularly for young readers, in a focused way that is unmatched. I had a student in one of my most challenging classes ever, raise his hand and say that he thought that the issues with violence in the inner city were just the "explosion or collision" of so many generations of "deferred dreams." The class fell silent that day, and does every day that I recount that insight to other classes.
This book is "must reading" for anyone wanting to learn more about the people and cultures of the United States, and its debt to people of African descent.Included in this masterful anthology are essays on the life of Langston Hughes and his poetry.
The second appendix contains poetry for children, though readers interested in this area will want to acquire a copy of Hughes's "Black Misery." The third appendix includes additional poems attributed to Langston Hughes and whos authenticity has been confirmed since the first edition of the "Collected Poems of Langston Hughes."My only complaint with this book is not with its contents but the flimsy soft cover.
The struggle  Blacks  went through,The rights  Blacks  were deprived of,The pain, the humiliation, the slavery  Blacks  had to bear,The patience  Blacks  had to endure,The suffering & injustice  Blacks  had to live with . . .All in all was perfectly pictured by Hughes' poetry (Y) This is one of the best collection of poems for understanding  Black Literature
I'm someone who often has a hard time "getting" poetry. When I read Langston Hughes, particularly poems like "Dear Lovely Death," "Mother to Son," and "Memo to Non-White Peoples," I get it. I checked this book out of the library, and now I'm going to buy a copy. Some of these poems I'll read again and again.
I studied Langston Huges' poetry with my English teacher this year and I absolutely loved it!I fell in love with his style of writing... so lovely
A book that belongs in every poetry lovers' house. He was brilliant and his poems withstand the test of time.
Looking at the poem, "Harlem," students will be able to see how figurative language can enhance a poet's voice.
Hughes uses a great combination of imagery and similes to help describe when dreams are not acknowledge taking a special look at Harlem.
Second read: They will use Beer's strategy: Sensory Key Code to find what sparks their five senses in this short poem.
They will underline and make the appropriate sensory code beside the line.
After this, students will think about a dream/goal that did not come true for them.
They will write a poem incorporating similes and imagery into their poem just like Hughes's poem.
This is the best poet I've read. Coolest poet I've read. My favorite poet I've read.
A good poetry book ...
Let me start off by saying:• I don't even like poetry• We live in a time (August 2017) when the poems in this collection are highly relevant and, in my view, required reading• I should have started by reading one of Hughes' shorter collections; it would have cut out a lot of the weaker poemsThis huge, exhaustive collection of Langston Hughes' works contains all kinds of poems.
There are other snapshot-like poems on various topics, some of them hinting at Hughes being a homosexual, as was suspected.My favourite poems from this collection are the ones about racism and, more broadly, being black in America from the 1920s to the 1960s.
Really, Ask Your Mama seems to, for me, help me think about Hughes' interaction with the artistic and musical currents in the early 60s.
I'm moving on to the biographies next, but it seems like Ask Your Mama in particular shows little evidence of Hughes' poetry falling off as he aged.And so thanks to this read through, I begin to think of Hughes and Levertov, Hughes and Clifton, Hughes and Brooks, Hughes and Black Arts more centrally, Hughes and O'Hara by way of Baraka?--as well as looking back, at Hughes in the tradition of Frances Ellen Watkins Harper (along with Dunbar).
Critics describe him as a poet with radical views who portrayed the African American life in the 20's through 60's, but to me he is the voice that tells us truths about all people who have to work hard to make a living, about those who have no other choice than to follow the 'leaders'.
He talks about native Africans working in the Johannesburg mines, but aren't we all doing similar jobs ( defined as more or less academic or elegant) for the wealthiest 1% that have about 50 % of the world's wealth?
How did I make it to my 58th year without reading Langston Hughes?
Hughes led a life that took him through much of the turbulence of the 20th century--his race and his intellect combining to keep him an outsider in many waysto both white and black cultures of the day.
His early work is powerful stuff, the middle era (marked by an anger and bitterness which propelled him towards Communism as an answer to the inequalities of American society) less so.
His later years are marked by poems in a deeper and quieter, although no less insightful, analysis of race and the history of black Americans.
Harlem Renaissance! Jazz! Blues!It's not that this collection is bad, just sprawling. There is no reason why anyone needs to read ALL of these poems.--Update: Upon rereading, I find myself more sympathetic and enamored with Hughes ability to be playful, experimenting with lyrical form. I suppose that time and openness to other opinions have given me a new perspective to begin exploring and enjoying his vast body of work.
It is an amazing and prodigious body of work by a great poet. Though you may not agree with everything he wrote, you cannot argue with the persuasive passion of his verse. He is also not afraid of writing short poems, which are some of his most affecting and effective. The work has a broad range of themes, as broad as life itself, and not at all limited to the "black experience". Hughes is one for the ages.
My favorite poet - I pick this book off my shelves from time to time just to read some poems. He's deep and powerful but also readable.
Hughes is the man, of course.
An invaluable collection from the greatest poet of the Harlem Renaissance.
I can read this over and over! Such rich words on paper!
The poem "Laughers" is amazing because it addresses the struggles of the common working African-American person.
The poem provides a Blue Collar mentality in African-American culture, which is quite Geo-political.
Another of Hughes poems that I enjoyed was "Midwinter Blues" with the use of a single verse sung only once, change in chord and singing in different lines.
While the poem is silent and briefly uses music, it addresses the voices that are not listened to, triumph over difficulty and African-American folk culture that is not recorded.
Having read a lot of prose about the struggle of being an African American at many eras in our history, it is a different experience to read a master craftsman widdle it down to only a few lines of poetry.
It reminded me of the great blues singers like Billie that sang the truth without finery needing to dress up the power of their message.Intermixed in the deep and hard to read are the short pictures of people of the neighborhood that we all have known over the years that make it fun.
