https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5058.On_Wings_of_Eagles
This book is personal for me since I worked for Ross Perot's firm, EDS, in San Francisco during that time. I remember seeing the letters from co-workers in Iran posted on the computer room's bulletin board. I watched on TV the news about the escape of EDS people from Iran. How many bosses would help get employees out of danger like he did? This fantastic book will explain why Ross Perot became a hero to me.
Follett steps away from his fiction thrillers to tell the real life story of two EDS employees working in Iran who were arrested and held in an Iranian jail without being charged with anything in 1979 prior to the Iranian hostage situation.
I knew nothing about this till reading the book.I also gained a new found respect for Ross Perot, who was the owner of EDS and later became a presidential canidate.
The only thing I knew about Ross Perot was that he was a short guy with big ears.
Ken Follett is one my favorite (well, maybe my favorite) authors, and I hadn't even known that this book existed until December 2012.On Wings of Eagles is the 100% true story of the rescue operation that Ross Perot organizes after two of his EDS employees working in the Iran branch are jailed.
I must admit that I really didn't (and still don't) know much about him, but I've learned that he is a man of integrity, and will go to any length to keep his people safe.
Una bellissima storia vera, raccontata in maniera semplice e diretta. Ancora una volta bravo Follett.
Three reasons: 1) Follett is an excellent story teller, 2)It's an "espionage/thriller," sort of, 3) it is TRUE!
About this time the revolution broke out and there was some political stuff I didn't understand; however, the matter came down to this - two of his top exec's were put into prison - right at Christmas time.
Not a good place to be in prison at any time of the year.
At one point Perot looks at Skully and says: what are we going to do.
Skully says - break them out!.
Skully assembled a group of 6 EDS guys who knew Tehran and had been in Special Ops. Wow!
Being from Dallas and raised during Ross Perot's run for the presidency, I was surprised I didn't know about his behind the scenes rescue mission of two EDS employees during the Iranian revolution.
I enjoy Ken Follett, and hearing him speak recently about his friendship with Perot, made me run out and get this book.
Along the way you are shown the day-to-day under pinnings of the US government, the wives who are left behind and how everyday Iranians are affected by doing business in a sometimes lawless land.
This real account of Ross Perot's successful attempt at liberating two of his employees, arrested during the last days of the regime in Iran and the first days of Iranian revolution, is an incredible (and real) adventure which was turned into a movie in the 1980s, with Burt Lancaster playing "Bull" Simmons and an array of other great actors playing the parts of the real EDS employees who accepted to stay or go back to Iran to try and rescue their colleagues.
Wish I could find and see the Lancaster movie!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 25 September 2018.
Sehr spannend und immer wieder faszinierend! Man fiebert sehr mit den Charakteren mit und ist gespannt wie es weitergeht. Blöd ist nur,dass mitten im Buch sich einige Bilder befinden,welchen man den Ausgang der Odyssee schon erfährt. Dennoch blieb die Spannungskurve erhalten!
Libro semplicemente pazzesco, ti tiene col fiato sospeso dalla prima all'ultima parola. Merita davvero di essere letto. Di sicuro lo rileggerò volentieri
The true story of how Ross Perot organized a secret rescue team to get his captive employees out of Iran when the U.S. government couldn't be bothered. Good tension throughout, almost read like a novel. Some members of our book club felt the book could have been shortened. If it had been, I'm not sure all the facts would have been properly presented.
Wow. What an incredible story of beating the odds. This story is based on the real-life events of EDS (an American company contracted to create a social-security type system in Iran) and Ross Perot's quest to help his EDS employees escape the hands of the acting Iranian government. Though parts of this story drag a bit, it is an interesting cast of characters involved in this plot... it's also interesting to hear this tale of a bit of american history.
Well, the men kidnapped were senior executives of Perot's company EDS.
Unwilling to leave his men stranded, and unable to get his own government to intervene, Perot put together a daring and SUCCESSFUL rescue.
Based on extensive interviews with all the parties involved, Follett creates a detailed account of the events leading up to and covering the kidnapping, rescue, and homecoming of the EDS employees.The story takes on a greater significance as you come to realize that it was likely some of those same American Embassy personnel who ended up as the infamous hostages of 1979.Now for a personal and somewhat embarrassing admission: The cartoon show Animaniacs, which was a huge favorite in my house, did a spoof of Ross Perot in one of their episodes.
Corporate derring do as the US government and US military are hamstrung by policy. Leave it to Ross Perot, middle-aged rescuers dedicated to saving wrongly imprisoned Americans, bags of money, tons of luck, all against the backdrop of Iran descending into mayhem and anarchy after the Shah was deposed. Oh, yeah, add that the team was headed up by legendary Special Forces operative "Bull" Simons, and you will know why this had to be made into a movie starring Burt Lancaster.
This is a true story - not fiction. It will shed a different light on Ross Perot. I worked at EDS for 13 years - and I met Paul Chiapparone, one of the EDS hostages caught in the middle of the Iranian Revolution.
impressive for being a real story
Better than Argo. I'm never going to Iran.
a terrible story told very well
In December of 1978 two employees of EDS were arrested in Iran.
EDS was a global data processing firm that was working with Iran to set up their banking system.
It’s the kind of stuff you read in a novel where you must practice a little suspension of disbelief, only this is all true.There is a wide range of heroic characters, both Americans and Iranians, who had to work together and trust each other in perilous situations.I was impressed with Perot’s decision to take on such a risky international project that the U.S. government wouldn’t attempt.
He put his company and, at times, his own life at risk to bring back two of his employees who were kidnapped by the government of Iran.Follet did an excellent job of bring this story to life.
The owner of the company considered paying it, but it turns out to be very difficult to transfer thirteen million dollars into a country when (a) no one trusts the country, and (b) it’s obviously a ransom payment made under duress.
So he hired a former special forces leader to lead a team of company employees to get the hostages out of prison and then out of Iran.It is an extraordinarily exciting story about Americans doing what they set out to do.
I liked the book On Wings of Eagles by Ken Follett; however, it was a very slow read for me.
Besides the fact that I like Ken Follett's books, what captured my reason for reading the story is because around 1983 I worked in an office as a receptionist.
I spoke with a couple of people who said they had lived in Iran.
I was young then and really didn't keep up with world news, but I remembered them saying this to me.In addition, Ross Perot, the employer in the book, ran for President.
What an absolutely crazy adventure this book documents! It's so strange to think that an American company with its charismatic leader was able to pull off a rescue as audacious and risky as Ross Perot did in this story. This book would make a great fiction thriller but it actually documents real events, complete with tons of luck (both good and bad), foibles, plot twists, and complex humans that you might never find in a thriller.
Great bookI have enjoyed all Ken Follett books for hat on have read and I’ve read quite a few. Looking forward to the next one.
A true story that reads like an impossible adventureWhat's not to likeAdventure tension one of the most exciting novels i have ever readWell constructed and ritten
What a marvel.A truely magnificent read. This is the 6th book that I have read of Kens and I am forever hooked by the intricate detail of his books. The hours of research that goes into these stories is astonishing. Can't wait to read my next book.
I never knew this story. Bravery and determination. I have now seen Ross Perot in a totally new light. Amazing piece of history.
Entonces acá vienen las críticas a la tiranía del sah, siendo que fue la CIA la que mediante un golpe de estado puso al régimen que gobernaba en ese momento; ninguno de los personajes se explica el por qué del odio hacia los estadounidense (se ve que los muchachitos no estaban enterando del golpe que le dio el poder al sah, por lo tanto, la lógica es que en ese país se sintiera cierto rechazo hacia el "gran vigilante del Norte"); que al ser un país subdesarrollado todo es lento o que los iraníes no entienden lo que es rápido, etc, o sea que acá lo que hace Follett (o sus entrevistados) es criticar a un país por no ser igual a su país, siendo que estaban atravesando un quilombo generado previamente por Estados Unidos; otra de las críticas es la embajada era unos tontos que no se tomaron el problema de los dos empresarios como algo primordial, ante esto, parecería que a Ross Perot le importaba poco y nada la situación de los otros doce mil estadounidense, o sea, "soy multimillonario, mis problemas primero man".
In other words, it may take half of the book to really get into it, but once you’re beyond that hump, the ride down is well worth the trek.When I was searching for a nonfiction book to read, this was the highest recommendation I received.
Once I got over my hump, I found myself coming to the book more and more as I learned about the people involved.Follet focuses heavily on the people and describes them as if they were characters in the story, offering a surreal experience for a nonfiction novel.
On Wings of Eagles is the true story of an epic rescue lead by Electronic Data Systems (EDS) Corporation's executive Ross Perot, as he sends a selective group of his own employees into Iran to break two of his coworkers, Paul Chiapparone and Bill Gaylord, out of an Iranian prison for crimes which they did not commit against that country’s government.
The five-star, must read On Wings of Eagles is a terrific piece for the advanced, high school reader, the novel retelling in shocking accuracy what Perot’s men endured in the midst of an Iranian revolution in order to save both their coworkers and their friends.
On wings of EaglesWow! I don't remember the details regarding the change in regime from the late 1970's , but this book is So descriptive. It provides a tense commentary on this historical event. Never considered Ross Perot a hero before, but definitely have much more respect for him for his loyalty to his employees. Excellent writing style!
Faced with the incarceration of two of his executives, Perot decides to bypass the US government, and instead forms his own militia rescue party (using retired US army soldiers) and send them in Iran, to risk their life, ready to kill innocent civilians, endangering the US-Iranian relations (and the lives of the thousands of American in Iran at the time) in the middle of an extremely delicate situation (i.e. a full blown revolution), to save his two executives.
