https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201385.The_Culture_Industry
. even where the hold of the spell (of social conditions, especially work) is relaxed, and people are at least subjectively convinced that they are acting of their own free will, this will itself is shaped by the very same forces which they are seeking to escape in their hours without work." ----------- After years of training in Jersy Grotowski-style physical theater, an extreme and demanding method to free one's body, I took an improvisational acting class where a number of students were office workers.
---------- For the life of me I will never understand how many people spend most of their "free time" thinking and talking about their work.
AcknowledgementsIntroduction & Notes--On the Fetish Character in Music and the Regression of Listening--The Schema of Mass Culture--Culture Industry Reconsidered--Culture and Administration--Freudian Theory and the Pattern of Fascist Propaganda--How to Look at Television--Transparencies on Film--Free Time--ResignationName IndexSubject Index
How old were you when you realized that the methods and modes that govern Hollywood cultural production are EXACTLY THE SAME as the propaganda machines that power some of the most oppressive totalitarian regimes in human history?
I was twenty-five and this realization came to me, not immanently, but because I read this critical text.
Whereas some critical theorists give voice to (boring) suspicions on the nature of truth, the limits of cognition, the embedded psychic processes which produce reactions like nostalgia (and so on and so forth), Adorno gives voice to every right-thinking persons attractive/repulsive relationship with Hollywood.
'High' culture, of literature, music, art, etc., can be used as a means of continual awareness and freedom, ambiguity and discussion and dialectic, but with the caveat that even these exalted means can be used to shoehorn people into little roles - the 'upper class' with monocles, tophats, etc., versus the 'plebs', or something similar.A particularly interesting point is one which affects our post-industrial society - what do we do when we have to manufacture jobs in order for people to work - work for work's sake - or what do we do when people have enough free time, and how may it be spent happily?
For even post-modern 'ironies' and 'self-awareness' and 'references' can be packaged, bought and sold nowadays.
Firstly, what I like about Adorno: his dissection of how culture is produced, his criticism of Enlightenment, the correlations he draws between reproduction and alienation.
What I dislike about Adorno: his profound elitism, especially the belief that he has tapped into a "true art" that stands above the menial processes of the culture industry.
And this little essay collection gathers both the best and worst of Adorno.
My wrestling process with him is over, and now he's like the sort of nerdy guy you know who's cool to hang out with sometimes but most of the time he just needs to lighten up.
At the same time that he claims that only "original" art is good art, he vocalizes a very stringent worship of the old classical masters; suggesting in no uncertain terms that no ideal music has been produced since Mozart's "The Magic Flute." Beyond that, much of his argument stems from a very elitist mentality...
Adorno's book reads like a red-faced manifesto, and his arguments only make sense in blurbs.
Reading this book feels like being yelled at for 200 pages, and at the end, you feel about as good about yourself as you would if a person actually *were* yelling at you for that long.
Stunning book about how culture isn’t just a random collection of our individual behaviours and norms transposed into something in the air which drives our etiquette and modus operandi.
the book says quite the opposite.
“Today anyone who is incapable of talking in the prescribed fashion, that is of effortlessly reproducing the formulas, conventions and judgments of mass culture as if they were his own, is threatened in his very existence, suspected of being an idiot or an intellectual.” Some of the chapters are stunning: on the fetish character in music and the regression of listening, the schema of mass culture, culture industry reconsidered, culture and administration, Freudian theory and the pattern of fascist propaganda, how to look at tv, transparencies of film, free time and resignation.
please enjoy!REVIEW:written in 1940's.
maybe.capitalism gives birth to corporations, mass media.they create false needs.we have true needs: freedom, independence, happiness.they say: fuck that shit, $$$$.population consumes false needs, becoming passive.you buy fancy clothes, fancy car, nice home, body wash, makeup, cologne, go to hollywood movies, sign up for goodreads.all of this makes the population passive.years pass.population stops objecting to evil and manipulation.bad things happen: no rights, holocaust, u.s. sponsored genocide, corporate monopolies.population successfully ignores all of this, opting instead to pay money to see a computer generated cowboy voiced by tom hanks make children's jokes.VERDICT:haha chomsky you fucking hack, way to be 40 years too late
For Adorno what is essentially important is not that popular culture is debasing the attention span of the masses, it is the way in which capitalist institutions-say for example, television networks-convince the spectator that they are all too aware of what low brow art really is.
In turn this assures people that it is okay to patronize cheap, homogenized art because they are cognizant of its poor quality.In E Pluris Unum, David Foster Wallace elaborates on this Adornoesque mode of thinking when he talks about how postmodernism as a stylistic mode of fiction writing is now rendered obsolete because the television networks have capitalized on this cultural brand of self referential irony.
They are “On the Fetish Character in Music and the Regression of Listening,” “The Schema of Mass Culture,” “Culture Industry Reconsidered,” “Culture and Administration,” “Freudian Theory and the Pattern of Fascist Propaganda,” “How to Look at Television,” “Transparencies on Film,” “Free Time,” and “Resignation.” Like much of the writing that comes out of the Frankfurt School, this is heavily influenced by Marxism, especially their idea (Horkheimer collaborated with Adorno in writing some of the more important essays in this collection) that mass consumer culture has become commodified, reified, and fetishized.
Overall, Adorno is spot-on about how commodification of public goods, like the arts, has destroyed them in large part.
I already blamed the market and technology for the downfall of all things good, so I'm with him there.
His definition of "high art" (worth our while) at best is defined as simply the more authentic and quality work; at worst, it is strictly classical music, and never excerpted or altered.
To Adorno I ask, what about the music of the masses?
I haven't taken a class in music history, but Classical Music can't be as wholesome as Adorno portrays it to be.
This book is great and all, but Adorno loses points for being a curmudgeon.
Elitist doesn't begin to describe it: the guy really didn't appreciate jazz, dancing, having hobbies, and basically every other form of entertainment.
On a more serious note, Adorno tries to deconstruct the fetishism of the culture on an industrial scale (still in a very elitist and often contradictory way), and hints to few important points about culture becoming a compulsory consuming exercise.
I would not recommend reading this without researching a bit more about the historical context of Adorno's life and work but taken critically this is a serious piece of cultural criticism, no matter if one agrees with it or not.
London: NLB, 1977, 123.) p.4 – The culture industry, which involves the production of works for reproduction and mass consumption, thereby organizing “free” time, the remnant domain of freedom under capital in accordance with the same principles of exchange and equivalence that reign in the sphere of production outside leisure, resents culture as the realization of the right of all to the gratification of desire while in reality continuing the negative integration of society.
But The Culture Industry, by being in most cases less abstract, is perhaps the more readable and enjoyable work.In these cogent and often challenging pages about what could later be called 'the media,' Adorno expresses his scorn and criticism against what we have come to regard as popular culture.
What results is art as commodity rather than as event, and so the listener comes to fetishize music as something disembodied, emanating from nowhere and broadcasting everywhere.
I appreciate how Adorno, with his carefully orchestrated dialectics regarding modern popular culture, is not a broken record.
Adorno, en furent – avec Herbert Marcuse – les principaux représentants.Bien avant Debord, ceux-ci veilleront, à travers ce pamphlet, à éreinter méthodiquement une industrie culturelle déjà bien établie ; flinguant indifféremment Donald Duck – canard boiteux du taylorisme universel, recevant sa ration de coups à l’instar de ces malheureux spectateurs amusés, s’habituant ainsi à ceux qu’ils reçoivent eux-mêmes – ou même le jazz, cette entreprise de nivellement sonore :« Aucun Palestrina ne fut aussi puriste dans la chasse à la dissonance inattendue et non résolue que l’est l’arrangeur de jazz éliminant tout développement non conforme à son langage.
I really wanted to like this book of essays.
Was it just a terrible translation?
Having not read Adorno's other work, I don't know whether to blame the translator.
As it stands, though, I wouldn't recommend this book unless you want to torture yourself.
Or choose another one of his works with a different translator.
I'm wondering if Dialectic of Enlightenment: Philosophical Fragments might be a better introduction?For more on fascism, I'm checking out his fellow Frankfort School philosopher Leo Lowenthal's Prophets of Deceit.
Prophets of Deceit: A Study of the Techniques of the American Agitator
A profound (but as expected difficult) read.
A bit slow in the first two chapters, nevertheless started well in chapter 3 all the way to the end.
Perhaps because getting used to Adorno's style of writing (?) The main idea revolves around the autonomous, subconscious masses that is driven to things that they rationally don't want, the idea of consumption.
Adorno started off in chapter 1 on arts and music, which I'm quite baffled, nevertheless a good exposure.
As this book was written 30 years after his main piece Dialectics of Enlightenment, in between that period, numerous writing has been produced.
Adorno Selamlar,Seninle Uluslararası İlişkiler zamanı Eleştirel Kuram, Frankfurt Okulu’nda şeyyapmıştık.
Uluslararası İlişkilerde sana çok yer vermiyorlar söylemem lazım.
Ben kültür endüstirisine şimdi gelebildim.
İlla ama illa kültürün sistematiğini, sahteliğini çözecem diyenlerin kaynak metinlerindensin.
Sanırım Türkiye’de radyo televizyon, iletişim, sanat tarihi ve marxisim çalışmalarında biraz daha fazla itibarın var.
Horkheimer ile 1947’de ortaya attığın kültür endüstrisinin üzerine çok şey oldu.
Bazı şeyleri öngörememen normal ama hala benzer sistematikler işliyor, rahat.
Kültür endüstrisi, endüstriyel kültürün ilkeleri, yapay haz, tikellik ve bireysellik, amaçsallık, deneyimsiz sözcük kullanımı ve reklama girmişsin.
Jazz üzerine yazdıklarını okumadım ama burada da jazzdaki normlaştırılmış doğaçlamaya giydirmişsin.
Apart from the bizarre detour into a Freudian analysis of Hitler's regime (which like all psychoanalysis is bunk and pseudoscience), this book provides a generally interesting analysis of the workings of the ways culture has been transformed by the arrival of capitalism.
I happen to not agree with many of Adorno's conclusions because I find the Frankfurt School's style of neo-Marxism to be not especially good criticism and I find that Adorno substitutes personal taste for analysis a lot of the time.
Nevertheless, I found the book a good intellectual exercise and did certainly agree with some of his analysis (for example the distinction between 'free time' and actual hobbies in a leisure class society etc).
I was completely ready to be hit with Adorno when I did. While he seemed to be thoroughly one-eyed, and polemical, I thought he made many many salient observations. I can't say, having had time to be un-enthralled by his myopic gaze, that he is entirely correct but my god there are times when I see something on tv or hear discussions about this program or that, that I am forcefully reminded of his arguements about the culture machine and its function.
Adorno ve Horkheimer'in kültür endüstrisi kavramı üzerinde üç makalenin yer aldığı bir kitap. Özellikle sosyal bilimler ve iletişim bilimleri ile ilgilenen ve okuyan kişilerin Frankfurt okulunun bu üyelerinin geliştirdiği kültür endüstrisi kavramını anlayabilmek için güzel bir kitap. https://kitapokurum.blogspot.com.tr/2...
Frequently Adorno drives me crazy, but his writings on sentimentality, romanticism, hobbies, and the historical and material production of cultural artifacts hit too close to home for me to dismiss him entirely when he's pretending to critique aesthetics but is just ranting about all the awful things young people do. God bless you Adorno, you cranky old man.
A tough set of essays; real workout for the brain. But can't really complain that it was 'difficult' when the central premise is that capitalist culture patronises consumers with mindless mulch. Biting, insightful stuff, had me reaching for a dictionary every other page. Like a proper run, not to be attempted with a hangover.
Not an enjoyable book. Not a very accessible book. Not a very persuasive book. Not a very informative book.The rambling, contradictory, bitter, and often rather uninformed and outdated collection of essays was disappointing. Yes, we all know that modern culture has shorcomings. No, we do not want to hear about it in such rambling and incoherent terms.
you really shouldn't not read this book
No: Even works critical of the world or the political situation in a “modern way” that didn’t center on a few important individuals would come off as unintelligible and tedious and would “transform itself into an artistic ornament.” Therefore, there should be no films, how about that.Here we see a glimpse of Adorno’s ultimate scorn for art, which has no place in a fallen world where what’s really needed are important essays complaining about pop music.
The implied consequence of anger being action.For someone without anger here is the list of things that Adorno rails against in "The Schema of Mass Culture":- ideal fiction- popular fiction- Bourgeois society- advertising- modern/postmodern art- mono-culture- monopoly of business/industry- loudspeakers in small nightclubs- digests- beautiful actresses with perfect make-up in filmic situations where their appearance would be more chaotic- lack of real conflicts- variety acts- Tchaikovsky and Dvorak- all literature since Joyce and Proust- Clark Gable- Fascists and fascism in all appearances- the omnipresence of technology- jazz music- The German hit song "Kannst du tanzen, Johanna?
-El valor de uso del arte, su ser, es para ellos un fetiche, y el fetiche, su valoración social, que ellos confunden con la escala objetiva de las obras, se convierte en su único valor de uso, en la única cualidad de la que son capaces de disfrutar.-El arte es una especie de mercancía, preparada, resgistrada, asimilada a la producción industrial, adquirible y fungible; pero esta especie de mercancía, que vivía del hecho de ser vendida y de ser, sin embargo, esencialmente invendible, se convierte hipócritamente en lo invendible de verdad, tan pronto como el negocio no sólo es su intención sino su mismo principio.-La publicidad es hoy un principio negativo, un dispositivo de bloqueo: todo lo que no lleva su sello es económicamente sospechoso.
Here are the liner notes for my Bigot Snigger's forthcoming EP, Trans 4 Sharia: At what point does ghosted objectification go the way of mythic transmutation; further, what of a racial bent that outlaws reason and defends canonical classics which are neither dangerous nor enduring?
On third thought, though, what like about that a good deal of ideologically paralyzed professors get trapped on these pedantic, yelping charlatans, and in return regurgitate them to anyone whose parents shall pay $250,000 to make their little boys and girls listen for decades?
