https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/734611.Hummingbird
HUGE 5 starsThey don't write romance like this anymore!Hummingbird is one of the most delightful, engaging, sweep you off your feet and make you smile romances I've read to date.
I now understand why this is one of LaVyrle Spenser's more beloved books.
I could gush on and on about the wonderful and richly developed characters, the hilarious and brilliant plot, the overwhelming sexual tension, and the beautifully written prose that overflows in this story.
But what I really want to do, however, is find the time to read this wonderfully witty, slightly angsty, and endearing book again.
Thank you sooo much Jill!:) Also, I gotta thank Tammy – so glad you jumped in “with arms waving” convincing me to read this one next:)...LOL The 9:50 R.M.R. is late and the entire town of Stuart’s Junction, Colorado is anxious to know why.
Of course, Abigail, being short on funds and rising to the occasion, volunteers and as soon as her patients are removed to her home, I didn’t want to put this one down.This is another great read that drew me in within a few pages and didn’t make me wade through half the book before I was completely engaged!
Miss Abigail McKinzie, thirty-three year old spinster, has lived her entire life in the small town of Stuart’s Junction, Colorado.
Both were wounded in the same train robbery in frontier Colorado and left on Abigail McKenzie's doorstep to nurse back to life.Gentle, loving David, promising her a happiness she'd lost hope of finding, was all a lady could wish for.Jesse stood for everything she hated: he was rude, violent, roughly handsome and disturbingly sensual.But it was Jesse's mocking mouth that troubled her dreams, Jesse who made her feel a hundred things a lady should never know, Jesse who challenged her every waking
Both were wounded in the same train robbery in frontier Colorado and left on Abigail McKenzie's doorstep to nurse back to life.Gentle, loving David, promising her a happiness she'd lost hope of finding, was all a lady could wish for.Jesse stood for everything she hated: he was rude, violent, roughly handsome and disturbingly sensual.But it was Jesse's mocking mouth that troubled her dreams, Jesse who made her feel a hundred things a lady should never know, Jesse who challenged her every waking hour.
How they rubbed each other the wrong way.
What was it about Abigail McKenzie that got under his skin?
This is my favorite book by LS.
It's funny, when I read this book, I had not discovered the appeal of the 'bad boy' yet.
I was thinking that Abigail was better off with the nice guy she was nursing.
But she ends up falling for Jesse, and so do I.
This book was steamy but in a different way from nowadays.
The steam was the sexual tension that did not rely on descriptive love scenes, but the attraction between the characters.
Reading LS is an experience because you don't get out of her books without your heart being tugged on.
This book is no different.
This is the first book by Lavyrle Spencer that I've ever read.
I remember seeing a book of hers that my grandma was reading when I was in Jr High.
1. The witty bantering and fighting that exists between Abigail and Jesse is some of the funniest and best that I've ever read.
2. Jesse is a hero I love because he brings out the very best, and worst, of Abigail.
3. The love triangle between Jesse, Abigail, and Mark was the low point of the book.
It really wasn't a triangle at all...there was no contest...Abigail and Jesse were destined to be.
Everyone was shocked when LaVyrle Spencer retired from writing a few years ago at the top of her game (and the top of the bestseller lists), but she left behind a rich legacy of books. YEARS (with its grown-up LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE vibe) is another one of my favorites but HUMMINGBIRD is the ultimate gunfighter/schoolmarm Western. There are plenty of opportunities for delicious and romantic encounters as gentle, prim Abigail McKenzie nurses wounded gunfighter Jesse back to life...and love. (Alternate: YEARS, TWICE LOVED.)
In the following years Miss Abigail has set the tone for all things prim and proper in Stuart's Junction."The woman had starch in everything to her bloomers to her backbone, and it was amusing trying to make it crackle."Mild mannered shoe salesman David Melcher is the man who *saved* the train and takes a bit of a shine to Miss Abigail, while meantime she's locking horns with the more seriously wounded Jesse who bears all the physical traits of a notorious outlaw - tall, dark and handsome and looks pretty darn good with his shirt off.
:)First of all, I like author's writing style and her ability to develop everyday's life events so naturally in her story.
Maybe I didn't like David much and I was sure he was not for Abigail, though he didn't deserve this result.
I like how author could manage to picturize two opposite characters could fall in love and while they were fighting constantly, also they could talk and share their thoughts and feelings so well.Abigail's dilemma about living her life and choosing the right partner etc.I'm not sure that if I'll ever recommend this book to anyone, I didn't like it that much.
The author spends the majority of the book concentrating on the developing romance between Jesse and Abigail.
About three-quarters of the way through the book Jesse is healed and takes a back seat in the action as the author explores the conflicting emotions in Abigail's head as she considers a proposal from David, the perfect bore, umm, I mean, gentlemen.
There were so many lines that made me melt, here's one:"She'd had so little love, he thought, I will drown her in it for the rest of her life".
Despite my little complaints, I'm very glad I finally read this book.
The heroine Abigail single-handedly ruined the entire book for me. Morning Glory is such a wonderful novel by LaVyrle Spencer that I feel bad about giving Hummingbird a low rating:( RTC...
I eventually had to drop this book because my biggest pet peeve in romance books is the "kiss her and feel her up until she submits and has sex with you because she'll like it she just doesn't know it" route.
The dude is a photographer-- not a gunslinger, not a cowboy, not a typical bad boy even, so I dont understand why he kept going after her and never thanking her for everything she did.
I didn't understand why he felt like it was his job to "break" her to begin with-- he didn't even like her!When you lose respect for a main character thats when you know its time to stop reading so I did.
Por supuesto, Abigail, nuestra protagonista, estando sin fondos prácticamente y a la vista de que ninguno muestra interés, se ofrece como voluntaria para tal tarea con la esperanza de ganar algo de dinero, pues la alternativa es trabajar en una taberna atendiendo mesas.El comienzo de la historia no es solamente un disparo al centro de la atención del lector, sino que se va volviendo más y más atractivo.La señorita Abigail McKenzie, de treinta y tres años de edad y soltera, ha vivido toda su vida en la pequeña ciudad de Junction Stuart, Colorado.
I vaguely remembered not liking it all that much, but I figured it couldn't be too bad because it's by LaVyrle Spencer, so I started reading it again.
By the time I got to chapter 7 or thereabouts, I remembered exactly why I had chucked it into a closet the first time around.Jesse, the hero, is an asshole of the first order.
Abigail was a little irritating and prissy at first, but she had my full sympathy after Jesse woke up and started talking.
The book is going right back in the closet, and Jesse DuFrayne can go fuck himself.
Oh, how I wish Audible would publish an audiobook for this story and for Morning Glory. Not abridged!! Pleaaaase. I loved this book. Smile on my face. Laughter. Tears. Hopes. Dreams. Just beautiful. Mmm..Mmm.My favorite by Spencer is Morning Glory, but this book is totally wondrous, too. Spencer speaks to the heart.
Lavyrle Spencer is, in my opinion, the best romance writer of all the ones out there I have come across...
None of them are perfectly gorgeous, with fabulous lives and not all of them have happy endings in the way we think of, or expect from a romance novel, making them incredibly relate-able...
If you love a beautiful romance story with characters who are as less than perfect as most of us, and are willing to accept realistic twist and turns rather than the expected "they lived happily ever after" ending, then you will love this, or any, of her books.
Very enjoyable romance.There were some scenes that had me laughing out loud. I loved the characters. It was fun to see how fighting added spice to the relationship and the characters looked forward to their spats. It was well done. I'm going to try more from this author. Sexual content: mild.
5 stars, again. OMG, I love this book.
Re-read June 2013I loved the book even more the 3rd time.
I found that I really liked Jesse even more this re-read, if that was even possible.
And, I loved Abigails lesson in the book which was that sometimes what you think you need and what you actually need can be two entirely different things.
I love the fact that Lavyrle's characters seem so real, they're never one dimensional.
Here you think all of these things about Jesse and find out the complete opposite, which includes all that passion under a steely exterior (love that!).
My fourth Lavyrle book and she's quickly becoming addictive.
I like it pretty well.
It definitely had its good points and I liked Spencer's writing, but I had some issues with the hero that were probably mostly a function of the book being published in 1983.
But I liked it enough (and have fond enough memories of another of her books, Morning Glory) that I'll give LaVyrle Spencer's other romance novels a try at some point.
Through a series of events, Abigail saves his life and yet when he awakens, he’s like a bear coming out of a cave, snapping at her every move.Spencer does a brilliant job of keeping up the tension and the banter going between Abigail and her most difficult patient, the handsome and darkly sensual man who only gives her his first name, “Jesse.” It is all the more amazing when you consider that most of the book occurs in her home and in a single room, her bedroom occupied by the recovering train robber.Jesse comes to think of Abigail as his “hummingbird” as she is small and flits about in a most efficient way.
Will Abigail choose the very proper Mr. Melcher, or the crude Jesse?Spencer deftly weaves a “second chance” story where both hero and heroine learn something of their true hearts’ desires.

A smidge under 4 starsI'm having a hard time rating this book.There were things I loved and things I hated about Hummingbird.First, I love how Spencer writes.
They were funny and witty together and I enjoyed their story.However...SPOILERS AHEAD....Jesse was such an ass in the beginning and I HATED that gun scene.
Even though I wanted Jesse and Abby to find their HEA, it was way too brutal for me.
...END SPOILER....All that said, I still might recommend this book to the right person.
I usually get most of my historical romances at the thrift store, but I alway pass up this book every time I saw it.
So, I went back to the thrift store and it was gone, of course, went to another one and it was no longer there.
I finally got to read it and it was well worth the wait and trouble!!
I loved the book!
I laughed many times throughout the book, you will have to read it to really love it!!
And if you see this book in the thrift store or any store, just get it!!!
Hot damn.
I have no qualms about giving this book 5 stars.What I thought would be a LoooOOooong, drawn out story, turned out to be a surprising page-turner.The author did such a wonderful job pulling me in and keeping me in.
There was never a "brick wall" point in this story.
I was excited to keep turning the page.
clicking the next page button on my Kindle.Jesse was soo yummy and had such a rousing rapport with our heroine Abbie.
Very likable characters.
Their back and forth bickering and fighting "mating ritual" dynamic is terribly enjoyable.
And the ending!
I am going to be one of the unpopular ones and say that.... I did not like this book at all. The heroine Abby was a prissy, cold shrew. The hero Jesse was a supposed train robber that constant bellowed or roared demands at her. They were constantly in the midst of hateful arguments. He kept trying to kiss her, she would respond after semi-forced kisses with "I hate you". Real nice warm, fuzzy romance story....
Ooohhh Hummingbird. I still don't know how I feel about this book! It started off pretty slow, the heroine was a prissy prude for most of the book and the hero was a little too rough with the lady for my taste. They had many physical altercations and the hero tried forcing her to bend to his will a LOT. I found the hero to be a brute and not in a charming, sexy way. The romance did grab me though and even though I was cringing through a lot of it I didn't throw it up against the wall!
I think I'm becoming obsessed with old LaVyrle Spencer novels. They are incredible! She is the queen of angst romance and "Hummingbird" is one of her best! The conflict between Jessie and Abigail was bite-your-nails, edge-of-your-seat, I-can't-believe-he/she-did-that, riveting until the very last page was turned.
Aahhhhhh Jesse!! hahaha I love this book. Love this author. Love the historical setting. Love the characters. Great one.
Favorite book ever.
Loved this book. Wonderfully written .Its a book i won't be forgetting anytime soon.Loved all the characters in this book. Its a very engaging book. Never a dull moment.I would recco it to all.
