https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37813.Letters_from_the_Earth
Satan's letters written during a visit to Earth, this is Mark Twain at his most cynical and offensive. This is a far cry from C.S. Lewis, perhaps even a Bizarro reflection. Long before today's crop of posturing, pompous-ass religious critics, Twain did it better, faster and funnier. For those who like their humor dark as unsweetened cocoa.
This particular book is a collection of perhaps simultaneously some of the funniest, most insightful, most uncomfortably true, and most challenging short stories and essays that Twain wrote.
Forget Colbert and Stewart; if you want real satire of the absurdities of the modern world and of the American people and government (still relevant, even if written a hundred and more years ago), this is the place to go.
Forget Hitchens and Dawkins; if you want a critique of Christian faith and practice that is really relevant, challenging, and insightful, this, again, is the place to go.
The people are all insane, the other animals are all insane, the earth is insane, Nature itself is insane." At the time of his writing this manuscript he purportedly proclaimed in a letter to a friend, "This book will never be published...in fact, it couln't be, because it would be a felony." The theme of repression is expressed in Satan's own banishment and Twain's choice of perspective being eventual-pure-evil along with his belief the manuscript would never see the light of day push him farther in his advance on common decency than we mostly jr.
A way must be conceived to pursue the dead beyond the tomb.”One might ask oneself the question: Who but the clergy would have any advantage from the notion of Hell?As one can see, the Letters from the Earth is quite a serious criticism of (Christian) religion, not only of contemporary Christians’ morals but also of their beliefs but its deeper criticism only works if you fail to consider the historicity of the Bible, i.e. that it is, like all other religious tradition, not a word-by-word inspiration coming from the Deity Himself but a man-made interpretation of man-held values and tenets.
This book is a varied collection of Mark Twain's later writings, from a period traditionally overlooked by American students but intensely scrutinized in Europe. The titular "Letters from the Earth" series include wry and mildly heretical musings on Biblical lore, Christian cosmology, and human nature in general. These were indeed the basis for a rather creepy children's Claymation TV show in the 80s called "The Adventures of Mark Twain," the sort of thing that nowadays would get program directors drawn and quartered in a megachurch parking lot.
Okay- after reading this... I so wish I could have sat down with this man and that I could have shared a drink and a chat with him. He was so witty and clever. Hilarious. He must have been something else...
I could write a long review of this amazing and shocking book.
But i won't write that long review, instead, i will sub it up in the following sentence: Man is a mistake.
The human race, basically, is the most horrible species that ever dwelled this earth.
But whose fault is it that we're so horrible?
is it our fault, or that of our Creator?
Our Father in heaven, who hasn't spared us all the pains possible, that even an erring human father would not want his children to go through.
Are we God's mistake?
I don't think the letters should be seen as a tract against humanity's natural inclination towards the spiritual, nor do I sense that it's ultimately saying the most reasonable path is all out rejection of God. No, this is a renunciation of an institution for the most part.
This is a Satan that is simply reporting back to his buddies; he is stripped from his dark side in the same way Twain is stripping God from the Christian framework.
Maybe this says more about my preconceptions of Mark Twain going in, and perhaps as I read more I will decipher a better understanding of his overall outlook.
Reason brings the courage to take a fresh look at myths and stories in the Bible that have been used as justification for mankind actions for centuries. With a fresh view and a sharp mind, M.Twain provoked me bitter smile after bitter smile while reading Satan's letters. But a first step to break the spell has been taken, so hopefully there is no coming back to dogma and superstition afterwards....the letters can be read here: http://www.online-literature.com/twai...
I've got to say, picturing Noah going around and intentionally contracting diseases is quite hilarious.Also included in this collection are the highly imaginative Papers of the Adam Family where Twain presents us with extracts from Methuselah's diary and Eve's autobiography.
In a piece title The Damned Human Race, he explains why humans are lower than animals when it comes to morality.The highlight for me was The Great Dark, a surreal story which would have made Kafka proud, in which Twain details life aboard a ship traveling across a microscope slide.
Писма от Земята, писма до разума: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...Не очаквах.
Знаех в общи линии, че в “Писма от Земята” Марк Твен погромява религията, но чак до такава степен изненада дори мен – сред тези кратки страници великият сатирик е по-мощен и краен от представимото – ироничен, циничен, саркастичен, откровен, направо жлъчен… и страница след страница карикатуризира и пародира християнството и персонажите от бибилията.
Твен надминава дори Докинс (трябва да си дочета Хичънс, за да видя дали и него) в критиките си – и това нещо е писано преди над век, просто изумителна смелост и достойнство, изумителен размах на разума в една не много различна епоха и в държава, която е убедена до маниакалност, че е хванала Господ за шлифера и тази й привилегия я освобождава от всякаква отговорност.http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...
In essence he takes the view that Nature is so filled with irrational horror and pain that existence is hardly worth having.
That last is the most comforting thought as it at least allows human beings to concentrate on their own survival without worrying about meaningless idiotic rituals.There is no doubt but that Twain is deeply sensitive to the very real terrors and pain of life and these are challenges that everyone must face.
Unfortunately, Twain thought that humans were merely complicated automatons.
But then Twain wasn't trying to provide an answer; he wanted to force the reader to confront the ethical dilemma of existence.
I can't even write anything that could adequately describe how brilliant this is, and it's because I'm not Mark Twain.
There were parts where he seemed to be writing about today (overcrowding, wastefulness, phony religion, and the end of days).
Though Twain never finished it, the voyage is filled with strange occurrences and is definitely not a comedy.
It reminded me more of a creepy film I once saw called Between Two Worlds in which passengers on a boat slowly come to realize they are dead and on the river Styx.I am not sure that was the ending Twain had in mind, but it was clearly written during his bankruptcy ordeal (I recognized incidents taken from real life on the return voyage from England when his wife was ill).
Если вспомнить, что книга была написана в такой религиозной Америке и на стыке XIX и XX веков, то поражаешься храбрости писателя и понимаешь, почему книга не печаталась 50 лет после его смерти.
В мире, где люди безоговорочно верили в Библию, разнести ее в пух и прах, основываясь на простом здравом смысле, - дело нешуточное.
Современные авторы все-таки не так открыто смеются над религией, теперь это делается с каким-то изяществом, что ли.
Возможно, я недостаточно религиозна, чтоб впасть в шок от таких писем Сатаны.
Возможно, после 80 лет совкового атеизма русскоговорящий человек в принципе не шокируется отрицанием классической религии.
К прочтению все же рекомендую.
However, he included similar ideas in both "The Mysterious Stranger" and Letters From the Earth, and they are both better books as they demonstrate better the genius of his imaginative skills.
It was put together as a book by the late Bernard DeVoto, then editor of the Mark Twain papers, as long ago as 1939.
In this interval Bernard DeVoto has died, but Clara Clemens' scruples have been overcome, and Henry Nash Smith, who is the present editor of the Mark Twain papers, has got the book out.
i wanted to give the text 4 stars, because it's a great (if apparently unfinished) collection of essays.be warned, though, of the edition that i did get: it's the one that first pops up on an amazon search (at least, during the current time period, it's the first: this review may have an expiration date); it's got a green cover and two goofy red Satanic eyes staring out from the top, published by "Greenbook Publications, LLC."it's a crime against Twain and a vicious insult to the reader; it was obviously cut & pasted verbatim from (or, bejesus forbid, the /source/ of) an Internet edition that exists on various different sites, all of which contain the same typo patterns.
It is reminiscent of C.S. Lewis' "The Screwtape Letters," only Twain uses the format to comment on God's indifference to His creation and mankind's misguided attempts to interpret His non-interference as benevolence or wrath depending on the situation.
It is likely these are the works Clara was concerned would reflect poorly on her and on her father's popular image.I was most fascinated with an unfinished story of a man's dream that he and his family are on a ship which is traveling from one end of a drop of water to another, trapped on a microscope slide.
Here is an excerpt from the conversation Adam and Eve had after they were forbidden the fruit..."Good and evil?""Yes.""What is that?""What is what?""Why, those things.
Let us eat of it; we shall die, and then we shall know what it is, and not have any more bother about it."Then Mark Twain reports that they were saved from partaking of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil at that time by a new creature that flew by that Adam hadn't yet named.
Excerpt:"Now there you have a sample of man's "reasoning powers," as he calls them.
He observes certain facts.
For instance, that in all his life he never sees the day that he can satisfy one woman; also, that no woman ever sees the day that she can't overwork, and defeat, and put out of commission any ten masculine parts that can be put to bed to her.
[Man:] puts those strikingly suggestive and luminous facts together, and from them draws this astonishing conclusion: The Creator intended the woman to be restricted to one man." - Letter VIIITake from that what you will.
Letters from the Earth was fantastic. I loved the writing and the way that Mark Twain shed light on the hypocrisy of religion and the human notion of God. After that section however, the book became very dull very quickly. As this book is a collection of his writings, I felt that a lot of it did not flow together. If things were tied together tighter, my rating would have been higher but I just found everything after Letters from the Earth to be highly boring.
An amazing book that gives the reader a different perspective about religious characters while giving the reader the feeling that these fictional characters are real. You can never go wrong with Mark Twain
One of the very few books I've read three times, at least parts of it. I first read it on a plane and I could not stop cracking up. I tried to interest my seatmate, but he preferred his portable DVD player. Alas!
I recommend this collection to Mark Twain completists or anyone who wants to cherry pick the ones I've suggested.Pre-reading note, 6-23-16:(See also The Screwtape Letters)God has a sense of humor.
Luckily I think I can appreciate each for what it is even if I read them at the same time, but this should be fun.Now to go divvy up the chapters into something close to equal percentage portions...
So, please don't let the month and a half reading time make you think I didn't like these, for I did.
the OG atheist picking out logic holes in the bible, getting a kick out of religious puritanism and god generally being a dickhead. always fun
Friended by Demise, Twain's unwedded masterpiece is a divorce from certainty in the inevitable.
One of the richest examples of this is his description of man’s belief in heaven, which he says “has not a single feature in it that he actually values; it consists utterly and entirely of diversions which he cares next to nothing about here on earth, yet is quite sure he will like them in heaven.
Yet, it is actually not in their heaven.
…The inventor of their heaven empties into it all the nations of the earth in one common jumble.
Here on earth, all nations hate each other, and every one of them hates the Jew. Yet every pious person adores that heaven and wants to get into it.
Read anything by Twain, and you come away rather the same: laughing at and angry with your fellow humans for being so witless and mean to each other.
(Imagine what he would say about Fox News today!) Twain's cynicism and sarcasm are more refined in his classics, but generally, one feels that soul in this collection of obscure stories.
Състои се от единадесет писма, написани от Сатаната по време на престоя му на Земята.Извадила съм обаче откъс от втората част, по-точно откъс от дневника на Ева:"СЛЕД ЧЕТИРИДЕСЕТ ГОДИНИМоля се и най-искрено желая да напуснем едновременно този свят - желание, което никога не ще умре, а ще се таи, докато свят светува, в сърцето на всяка жена, която обича; и тази молитва ще носи моето име.Но ако все пак един от нас трябва да си отиде по-напред, моля се това да бъда аз; защото той е силен, а аз съм слаба, аз не съм му необходима толкова, колкото той ми е необходим - животът без него няма да бъде живот, как бих го понесла?
I think Mark Twain stretched his mind when writing about this.I hear him when he contends with God on why women should be given so much passion and be restricted to one man.Equating the natural law to the law of God seems to me like bias; however it is well known that philosophers like to chew on this on end.Also to think that heaven is a contrived idea by humans is naive.
Who thinks that a serpent once used to walk upright or that most men do not sing.
I never really read Mark Twain but on this one he had to bend over backwards.
