https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203818.The_New_Oxford_Annotated_Bible
Then halfway through they just introduce a new protagonist out of nowhere who dies within 4 chapters and they spend the rest of the book trying to work out what his deal was.
Genesis and Numbers are a huge yawn fest, I'm not even sure what the lengthy genealogies and census information had to do with the fisherman because everybody dies in the end anyway.
This book is huge.
I thought Lord of the Rings was big.
The only consolation is that it's so big and heavy my wife sometimes uses it to press flowers, which is fine by me because I wouldn't lend this book to anyone.
I spent a lot of time reading commentaries on this passage to try and understand it and I feel like it gets to the essence of how wild and messy these stories are compared to how I understood them.And there's some vivid fantastical elements to this book!
The Bible seems like a very human book: it is sometimes aspirational and moral and at other times it is dark and animalistic.Going into this book I had a simplistic view of religion.
الكتاب المقدس ....او بالانجليزي the holy bible .للمسلمين : من يتبع هذا الكتاب يسمون "أهل الكتاب".أريد أن اوضح قبل أي شيء ؛ شيئا مهما غاب عن معظم المسلمين :- الكتاب المقدس ليس "الانجيل"أولا : ان الكتاب المقدس ينقسم الى قسمين : العهد القديم والعهد الجديد .العهد القديم يتألف من كتب التوراة الخمسة : التي ينسبها اليهود والنصارى الى النبي موسى عليه السلام .وكتب الأنبياء أيضا وكتب المزامير التي يعتقد أنها هي نفسها "الزبور" التي نؤمن ان الله اوحاها الى النبي داود عليه السلام .
وكما أنها تحتوي على عدة كتب من نوع آخر ؛ مثل كتب النبوءات وكتب التاريخ ؛ ومعظم البروتستانت الجدد يعدون العهد القديم بأنه كتاب تاريخ فقط ؛ ويقول بعضهم بعدم حجيته لانه من القانون "الموسوي" وأن العهد الجديد ألغى هذا القانون ، اللهم الا الوصايا العشر المشهورة في الوسطين المسيحي واليهودي .
What did I NOT learn from this book?This is the version of the Bible that I now use, and of the Bibles I have owned, it is the most useful.
Each chapter of the Bible is preceded by an introduction, placing the writing in a historical context.
I do a good bit of teaching, and, trust me, I am no Bible scholar.
I simply don't think I could get up in front of a group of people and intelligently discuss the Bible if I did not have this book.
"A man hears what he wants to hear and disregards the rest." -- Paul SimonAnyway .
This is what I like about The New Oxford Annotated Bible: 1.
This is useful in understanding the context, which is imperative when reading The Bible appropriately.
This version of The Bible is great for anyone who is interested in the actual study of the book as opposed to just getting angry and saying stuff like "it's mysogynistic, homophobic, and obviously a work of fiction".
Thumpers might want to stay away as well.
You might not like your own version The Truth, either .
This is by far my favorite translation, and it's filled with historical and linguistic footnotes. Large and unwieldy, sure, but this is an excellent reference for lay(wo)men and students alike.
i skipped a few sections, but it was decent. lots of inconsistencies, continuity errors, etc. some nice poetry. would recommend to others who like scifi and fantasy.
Most of all I learned that I should have read this earlier!It's basic cultural literacy.
I also learned, going straight through the old-new testaments, that they are so much alike it was sometimes hard to tell which one I was listening to.
I think the New Testament was strongly influenced by the Greeks and the Old Testament was not.
But the source of almost all of the New Testament is the Old and it boggles the mind how much of the divisions and hatreds that stemmed from the divide are from the minor differences.
The New Testament is basically an interpretation of the old.
No one should own a bible.If you must, use this one. It's rather well translated and the notes are excellent.A warning- keep out of the reach of children and the gullible.
I felt that I had probably read the whole thing, almost certainly the New Testament, but with-out the context or continuity.
Over-all, I found these essays critical in understanding what I was reading from both a historical and literary perspective.
Also I came away with a new appreciation for the wisdom and literature in some of the minor Old Testament books and even more so the Apocrypha.What I didn't like: The text itself was definitely more challenging than the NIV (though probably less than the King James).
2018. Think I'll reread the introductory essays.
English Bible translations fall somewhere along a continuum between a woodenly literal rendition and a free, or liberal, style.
An example of the former is the venerable King James Version with its flowery 17th-c.
On the above-referenced continuum it falls between the KJV and the New International Version (NIV), the latter an attempt to strike a judicious balance between word-for-word literalism and a paraphrase.
One example is where the scholarly literary critical methods for determining the authors of the biblical books (Moses, David, Paul, etc.) trump the historical Church consensus.
The best Bible on the market for students and those in need of a biblical reference source. Scholarly introductions, comprehensive annotation, and the addition of little known apocryphal material make this NRSV Bible a stellar choice among the crowded market of often sub-par biblical versions and translations.
Okay, this is the correct version of the New Testament. This one right here.
A few years ago, I settled on the Catholic NAB for its rigorous--and surprisingly fair--notes and commentary, and for its valuable apocrypha.
The 4th edition of the NOAB is, in my opinion, the very best study Bible available in English.
The notes and essays exhibit stupendous, fearless scholarship, without imposing itself on the biblical text (the NOAB team has wisely backed away from political correctness in favor of letting the Bible speak for itself).
If I'd had this Bible twenty years ago, I need never to have bought another.Note: I own the leather-bound, signature-bound "hardback" version of the 4th Edition NOAB (ISBN 978-0-19-528957-2).
If I could have given this half a star I would have.
On top of multiple historical inaccuracies most of what is written has been proven to have belonged to previously existing religious cultures such as the Norse, Druid, and Egyptian people.
I must admit though, after reading it through the first time and vomiting, I went back the second time from a non-biased point of view and looked at it in a professional capacity and can easily see how it led to the bloodiest, most violent culture in human history.
Unfortunately I still can't see how decent, normal, intelligent people can fall for what is inside it's far too numerous pages.
Of all the versions of the Bible that I have read, I find this one the most helpful.
I have read about 2/3 of this version with intense study of the Old Testament (EFM)and find the annotation extremely helpful.
The more I learn about how the Bible was originally written and how changes and translations have been made over the decades, I find myself getting closer and closer to my understanding of truth.
In particular, the references to original language are really revealing.
Other versions of the Bible seem to have misinterpreted historic translations in favor of verse.
All in all, I will keep reading in this Bible.
I was already familiar with a lot of bible stories and a few different Christian traditions before I actually read the whole thing (I watched plenty of Veggie Tales as a little kid, went to a Catholic elementary school, did Quaker summer camp through middle school, and attended Lutheran and Episcopal services), but reading (and doing a little bit of research on historical context) gave me more insight on where different Christians are getting their justifications and refutations for various actions and philosophies for life.
The NRSV might be my new favorite translation. I also loved the background, at the beginning of each book, about authorship, naming, canonical status, structure, historical context, literary history and more! This is a great read from multiple angles. It is excellent literature, with a multitude of genres in an easy to read format. It is also, and in my opinion most importantly, the literary foundation of the Judeo-Christian faith.
I'll have to check this out for my next read through of the Bible. I've read multiple versions but do not believe I have ever made it through the NRSV, and of course I'm sure the notes will offer a different (and probably decisviely more liberal) perspective than the notes in most of the study Bibles I have read.
This is the version I advise my students to get and to use.The translation is, mostly, good. (Now and then I have a few quibbles, but no translation is going to be ultimately satisfying.) The notes are excellent, however, and set the texts in cultural contexts briefly but (again, usually) accurately. The editors are highly informed.
I prefer this translation politically, the James aesthetically, and the Geneva for literary history (i.e. to tie to Marlowe, Shakespeare, et al.).
The absolute best study Bible on the market. I purchased mine in 1998 for a college class on The Hebrew Scriptures (Old Testament). I just used it Sunday morning in class.
The 1991 version by Metzger and Murphy is the best addition of this book and the one we used at USC. The newer version has deleted apocryphal information that is important to the text.
God is Everywhere he is the reason whe are! i believe in the holy trinity,, and i want God to lead me on the road to everlasting life
Love this version. Finished New Testament and enjoyed many essays. Will continue to read and re-read over the years.
*Rated as an academic resource.
I always wanted to read the Bible from the first page of the Old Testament to the last page of The New Testament.
I am Catholic, but I wanted to read a version of the Bible that was used by scholars as their study Bible.
I feel after reading this Bible from beginning to end I feel I can carry on a educated conversation especially with people who love to take Biblical information out of context or think they know everything about the Bible when they have “ONLY” read The New Testament.
Don’t you want to know what preceded the The New Testament and Jesus wasn’t happy with continuing?
It is a profound experience to read the Bible -I did it as part of my Education for Ministry class.
We read the Hebrew Bible in year one--2015 to 2016 school year--and the New Testament in Year 2--2016-17.
I am certain this will not be the end of my reading of this book.
My goal in signing up for EfM was to read the entire Bible--and I did it.
The class and the experience was so much greater than that, and there is so much more to know from reading the texts--but I did achieve that goal of actual reading over the course of 2 years.
For someone who is not particularly religious, this version of the bible was fascinating. The opportunity to learn from scholars who interpret the bible, society at the time different books were written, events that influenced various parables, etc. was informative, shocking, funny, and weird all at once. Anyone who considers their self religious should be required to read this cover to cover. If you're like me, you'll quickly learn that you were probably only taught the bible's greatest hits... and that does not represent a full understanding of the beginnings of Judaism or Christianity.
