https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242041.The_Amazing_Bone
Pearl, a young pig, is wandering around after school, daydreaming and enjoying nature, when she happens to meet... a bone. A friendly, talkative bone who has escaped from a grumpy witch and is looking for a better home. Pearl and the bone quickly make friends, but will friendship be enough to get them safely through the dangerous woods?
William Steig’s hand-drawn illustrations and his intense yet soothing storytelling makes this book an instant treat to enjoy.“The Amazing Bone” sets the perfect storyline about the power of friendship and the dangers of the outside world to a child.
Since many children today are being harassed and kidnapped by unsuspecting strangers, this book may be too much for children to handle and parents should try to explain to their children that it is always good to travel with someone if one does not know the place very well, so that the person will try their best to protect the child from any danger.“The Amazing Bone” is a wonderful experience for children to see how it is dangerous to walk in an unsuspecting place alone and how friendship is strong enough to conquer the most dangerous criminals.
Hmm. I honestly don't know what to think of this story.
The bone previously belonged to a witch and at the end of the story, casts a spell (fairy tale like magic).
Later, the main character gets kidnapped by a wolf who wishes to eat her (similarly to Beatrix Potter's Jemima Puddle Duck story).
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
William Steig was an amazing writer who used an outsized vocabulary to create children's books that adults would enjoy reading aloud. The best audience is the gifted child, someone that is still young enough to like a good picture book but that isn't bewildered by text. My favorite Steig book is Dr. DeSoto, which was the "it" book for my elder daughter when she was small, but everything he put his hand to was solid.
3*art3*storySteig is so unique. So unlike anyone else. He may not be riveting in this particular story, but he's always flavourful. How many stories are there about a talking bone, anyway? Squirt liked it. The idea of a talking bone didn't faze him one iota.
The Amazing Bone is one of these books.Pearl the pig dawdles her way home.
The bone, it tells her, is able to replicate every human language and every known sound.
Pearl loves the bone dearly, and it loves her.
On the way home, they are set upon by highwaymen who literally press their guns to Pearl's forehead and demand her cash until the bone imitates the sound of ferocious beasts and scares them off.
Pearl, she tells the bone, has just begun to live and does not want to die.
He learned this subconsciously from the witch, says the bone.
This is the kind of book that William Steig consistently creates better than almost anybody else.
The artwork in the book is some of William Steig's finest, coating the pages with rich color and a kind of life that seems to practically move with the story.
The format of The Amazing Bone reminds me of a combination of two other William Steig books, Zeke Pippin and Sylvester and the Magic Pebble.
Pearl goes out into the forest one day and happens upon a small, magical bone that can somehow actually speak.
I read this book for a "Gardening and Literature" class I took for my MA degree at the University of Maine.
The class itself was really unique in that we discussed our readings while planting a labyrinth garden on University grounds.
reads, and was fun to explore as an adult reader.
It reads like a combination of the Grimm's Fairy Tale "The Singing Bone" and "Little Red Riding Hood" - the pig, Pearl, finds a singing bone and, on her way home, comes across a big bad wolf who intends to devour them but is outwitted by the bone.
This is a very strange story. We listened to it being narrated on audiocassette by John Lithgow as we followed along with the book, and with his amazing storytelling skills, we were transfixed by the story. After we listened to it, I read it again and realized that it really is a very strange tale. Overall, though, the illustrations are great, the story is entertaining and we really enjoyed the audio version of this book.
While I did enjoy looking at the bright and cheery (for the most part) pictures of this book, I was a little dismayed at this story line. It seemed awfully convenient the way things worked out, and it was terribly random. I'm not sure I'd recommend this book, it was slightly strange and a little bit weird.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
This book was kind of weird. I gave it three stars because my son seemed to enjoy it, but personally I felt it deserved only two.A pig finds a talking bone. Robbers try to steal it from her--the illustration shows them with a gun to her head! Then a fox steals it and attempts to cook and eat the pig, but of course the pig and bone escape. The ending is nothing special.
I'm a sucker for a well-dressed fox and a somewhat daft pig with rad facial expressions. The ending was great, and my kids liked comparing it to other examples of traditional literature.
This one we really liked. We'll definitely look for more stories by William Steig.
I like it when the fox first became the size of a rabbit and then became the size of a rat.
surprisingly violent...but "the seventies were a different time" according to Kricket :)
Then she gets taken home by the fox and the bone realizes out of nowhere that it can cast magic spells, probably since it hung out with a witch for a long time, and then she escapes and takes it home and it becomes part of her family.
We have a bone and talking animals, and the bone is magic and can imitate sounds, and all of a sudden it can cast spells.
It apparently only casts them in times of great distress.Message: Be nice to magic talking bones and they'll be nice back.For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
To be honest, this book is kind of weird and I would not recommend it to younger readers.
The plot takes a weird turn and has some scenes that might not be suitable for younger readers.
There is also a lot of text, which might be harder for younger readers to wade through.
I would recommend this book to older children that can comprehend a lot of text and older themes.
The artwork in this story is absolutely lovely though.
One of the double page spreads shows the main character in a beautiful meadow that has flowers and trees.
As a picture storybook, this book is appropriate for 3rd-5th graders due to the content of guns and kidnapping.
I did not particularly enjoy the story due to the subtle violence in it of robbery (using guns) and kidnapping and wanting to kill the main character.William Steig's artistic medium was he drew hand-drawn illustrations.
This use of pastel colors softened the intense scenes of the robbery.I would use this book to teach friendship.
The bone and the pig, Pearl, developed a strong friendship, ultimately one in which they helped to keep each other alive.
Pearl the pig was sitting in a field enjoying her life when all of a sudden, a bone started talking to her.
On their way home, a group of robbers tried to steal Pearl's purse with the bone inside.
The bone scared them away by talking to them.
Later on, a fox approached Pearl and kidnapped her and the bone so he could eat her for dinner.
Pearl was very scared.
Pearl and the bone were able to run away and get home safely.
I did not like this book at all.
I would never read this book to a child.
The story is a different story compared to traditional stories.
The amazing bone is a unique story that offers a spin on a traditional story of a pig and a fox.
I personally did not like the book due to the story revolving around a bone becoming friends with a pig, specifically the aspect of including a bone in the story.
The story does include violence by the robbers with knives and guns but the bone does help Pearl, the pig, escape the robbers.
Overall, the story offers a different story not sticking to traditional norms for readers.
William Steig had written lots of stories about animals and their adventures. That being said, I have to conclude that this one by far is the most unusual one I have read to date. Sylvester and the Magic Pebble is a favorite but even a donkey with a magic pebble that grants wishes is not as unusual as a talking bone found by a little girl pig in the forest. The pictures are attractive and depict springtime in a way that makes me long for the season. Not a great book but still somewhat entertaining.
Not entirely sure why this one is a classic, but maybe that's because I'm used to books like This is Not My Hat and That Is Not a Good Idea!. We recently had this book challenged at our library, so reading it to see what the fuss is about. There is a scene where the protagonist is robbed at gun- and knife-point, which I assumed is the problem.

This is a story that makes anything seem possible, and any problem solvable. The main character is the epitome of carefree happiness and wonder towards the world, and strangely, the other character is a talking bone that ends up saving the day. The forest setting that brings about an uncaring wolf to eat them is classic, but anything else about the story is not, which gives it a great twist and makes one giggle.
11/28/181st-3rd gradeModern FantasyWhile a classic in children's literature. There were a few scenes depicted in this book that I'm not sure I would feel comfortable showing to a classroom. One page shows a scene where Pearl is attacked by masked bandits who threaten her with guns and knives in frightening masks. I would definitely use discretion before bringing this book into the classroom.
On her way home from school, Pearl dawdled, instead of going straight home. She finds a talking bone that once belonged to a witch. On her way home, Pearl finds herself in peril when she is accosted by highway robbers and then captured by a fox who plans to have her for dinner. The talking bone saves her in the most amazing way.
This story is a spin on Little Red Riding Hood, including magic in the form of a speaking bone. It is a bit intense and my kids were a bit scared after reading this story. When reading this, maybe better not as a good night story...Otherwise it had very cute illustrations and a happy ending, as the bone turns the fox into the size of a mouse.
• 1977 Caldecott Honor Book •I really love the art in this book, especially the colors. However, the story is very strange! Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
I can't believe I had never read this book before! This book has practically everything: Excitement, adventure, chills, magic, etc., all concluded with a small, but not to subtle, message. What a lovely book.
This was a fun book. A little unusual. I wish I had been read/read more William Steig growing up.
