https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409796.Almuric
While Conan the Barbarian might be his most famous creation, he was a prolific creators who dreamed up characters and worlds seemingly at will, as his stable of protagonists span the gamut from Sailor Steve Costigan (1930s tough guy sailor), to Dark Agnes de Chestillon (red-haired 16th century French swordswoman), and onward to notable heroes like Solomon Kane, El Borak, De Montour, Kull the Conqueror, Bran Mak Morn, last king of the Picts, and Esau Cairn, the hero of this sword and planet novel reminiscent of Edgar Rice Burroughs’ Barsoom novels.Since this is a classic “portal” scifi story, Almuric begins on earth, where Esau Cairn is a man born out of his time.
I don't think I could have finished it if it had been much longer than the 100 or so pages in my edition (I downloaded it from Amazon's Kindle Store but I can't stand not having a book cover so I'm archiving it under this edition).Almuric is about a character, the Earthman Esau Cairn, and a setting that obviously didn't inspire Howard much, though the theme of "barbarism" being infinitely superior to "civilization" you find in the Kull and Conan stories is omnipresent.
When the lovely Kothan maiden Altha is captured by the bat-winged black men of distant Yugga, Cairn follows in hot pursuit, ultimately doing battle with a host of dog-faced apes, a monstrous spider, and an electrified and tentacled slug creature (!)...not to mention uniting the hereditary enemy cities of Koth and Khor to do epochal battle against the Yagas' fortified cliff city and their evil queen, Yasmeena...."Almuric," to be sure, is a red-blooded (in the figurative and literal sense; the book is extremely violent), rousing action yarn that never lets up and that grows increasingly bonkers as it proceeds.
Howard’ın 1939 yılında ünlü Weird Tales dergisi için kaleme almış olduğu üç bölümlük bir bilimkurgu.Kitap dünyada aradığını bulamayan ve siyasi mekanizmanın buyruklarına alet olmayı reddeden insan azmanı bir varlığın, Esau Cairn’in hikâyesini konu alıyor.
Nelerle karşılaşacağını o an umursamayıp, riskleri ve bilinmezlikleri bir kenara atan Cairn’in Almuric’e olan macerası böylece başlamış olur.Kitap toplamda 12 bölümden oluşuyor.
Son olarak Yaga adıyla bilinen uçan iblislere tutsak olduğu ve beraberinde gelişen olayların konu alındığı bölümle nihayete eriyor.Bu süreçlerde Esau Cairn, farklı bir dünyada yaşamanın ne olduğunu anlıyor.
Yeni bir dünya olsa da bilimkurgu olarak nitelendireceğimiz pek bir şey görmüyoruz.

Το ξαναδιάβασα μετά από 20 χρόνια θαρρώ. Ήταν ένα από εκείνα τα βιβλία που είχα δανείσει και δεν μου επέστρεψαν ποτέ; Ε; Ξέρετε εσείς! Από αυτά που σε κάνουν να μετανιώνεις που δανείζεις. Ο Howard άλλαξε τον κόσμο της εφηβείας μου. Ήταν από τα πρώτα βιβλία του είδους που πήρα στα χέρια μου και μαζί με τις περιπέτειες του Solomon Kane με έκανε να αγαπήσω, να βυθιστώ, να ονειρευτώ. Περιπέτεια φαντασίας! Μαγεία και Ξίφος! Τι άλλο θέλουμε; Κλασικό ως το μεδούλι!
This was Howard's entry into the Sword and Planet field established by Burroughs with his John Carter books. Howard puts his own unique spin on the subgenre. However, there's pretty good evidence that Howard didn't actually write the last chapter and there is some mystery as to who completed the novel.There are several editions of this novel available, including a hardback version.
Great fun, full of pulpy weirdness.A twentieth century fugitive uses the 'Great Secret' to flee to another plant, a planet of primeval apeman and winged Devils. There's some great writing here and tons of resonance with Conan - for example, Thak a god on the planet of Almuric is very similar to Crom and Esau Cairn is a twentieth century Conan, a man born out of time who thrives on the harsh world of Almuric. There is some superb action and the final battle is thrillingly well written. Loved it!
While in general I prefer his short stories as the compacted space seemed to better fit his unique style Almuric is by no means a bad book.
Instead of spending twenty pages hemming and hawing it over our man Esau readily agrees and is soon on a path of adventure the likes of which no earthman (aside from John Carter....) has seen before.I won't go too in depth as to the story as others should read this entertaining little book for themselves.
More than likely due to the fact that Howard was more used to penning short stories.
Howard is my favorite writer regarding action stories.
I have not found any other author who surpasses him in vivid, dynamic description of actions, done with a sense of rhythm and character coherence.
When he writes about a character, it becomes recognizable and memorable in its own way.
Howard wrote pulp fiction, weird fiction, and he delivered with a touch of a primal sensibility outside our modern times.
Almuric is a distant planet, primal and savage.
On the other side, it is pure, unrestrained Howard prose, furious and lyrical at times and recognizable for its themes.
I really, really, really wanted this book, but in hindsight somewhat regret paying full price.This is the story you'd get if you were to somehow mix H.P. Lovecraft and Edgar Rice Burroughs; a falling civilization on a primal world, with dark menaces just out of the torchlight.The casual racism and chauvanism were disconcerting.
Many of the plot ingredients are familiar from Howard’s other stories – the evil queen ruling over an ancient city, the winged monsters, the sacrificial temple and the secret passages, the kidnapped lover, the breakneck battle with a city’s inhabitants come the end – other Howardian heroes such as Solomon Kane and Conan faced other, very similar situations.
Battles in the air with massive foes, a huge electric Cthuloid monstrosity, and a ton of wrestling and swordplay – that’s what this book offers and a page rarely goes by without something happening.
If you've read any of Robert E.
Howard's sword-and-sorcery or horror stories but not Almuric, then probably the only thing that will be unfamiliar is the setting: not the Hyborian Age, nor Southern Gothic or Cthulhu mythos, but rather another planet, possibly in another dimension.
Now, if that sounds like faint praise, or even criticism, it isn't meant to be: Howard was very, very good at what he did, and this is an excellent example of his work.The people and places on Almuric are savage and exotic.
I really wish that Howard had gone back to explore and expand the world he created.
Howard is my all time favorite writer, but for many years much of his work was heavily edited.
This is my favorite Howard novel.
I am a purist when it comes to a writers works.
I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another time period.
Don't read this book unless you get one of the new versions printed from Howard's original unedited manuscripts.
Message me if you need a list of what is a good copy from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
A stand alone book, it's pretty typical of his writing. He uses a lot from ERB in this.
Having read many of the Conan stories, I wanted to see what else Robert Howard could do.
And it was, except this was actually a Conan book.
Oh Howard didn't come right out and say it, but the premise was very obviously that Conan was reincarnated in the twentieth century as Esau Cairn, and being framed for crimes he didn't commit, was eagerly transported to another world by a scientist where he could once again become a barbarian.
Anyway the tale was full of adventure as you'd expect from Howard, so I give this story 4 steely thews.
Edición Miraguano Ediciones. Pulp en estado puro. El viaje del héroe paso a paso.Historia llena de adjetivos que pretenden describir con más fuerza y el resultado es todo lo contrario. Traducción horrible.
I'm not saying Howard was a racist, I certainly don't believe that to hold any water at all, but his work can be analyzed from that perspective, just as they can be analyzed for possible his misogyny.He also wrote for money, something that shouldn't be forgotten if you're ever debating about his use of clichés.
I'm not here to excuse any of Howard's writing or start a debate, I just wanted to put those facts out there for anyone considering reading this novel or any of his other works.
There is a lot that could have been polished, but unfortunately we lost this wonderful author at a fairly young age.These early planetary romance tales as they were called back then, are more sword and sorcery than scifi, especially story.One of the ingredients to an ERB style Sword and Planet adventure is a perfect hero.
While I enjoy Conan, Kull, Solomon Kane, and the countless other heroes of Howard's much more, this is a fun story, especially if you view it from the period it was written and understanding who wrote it and why.
I think it's time for a dose of something more girly, perhaps the one Jane Austen I've not re-read over the past three or four years.Esau Cairn is basically a brute, someone who is strong as an ox and also someone who has no self control.
Other people contrive to piss him off, thereby bringing mayhem upon themselves.
I think this is the last of the pulp books I managed to snag from Munsey's before they got closed down by the lawyers, or something.
Some of Munsey's pulp offerings were quite fun, some, like this one, not so much.
You could have taken all of that out, have the girl saying she doesn’t like the life in the city before getting attacked by the flying men, and the plot would still play out in the exact same way.There is also the silly way Cairn finds out about the secret passage into the enemy city.
Not to mention how for plot convenience Cairn finds the ape men already outside the city getting ready for war when he returns.
I wanted to like Almuric, but my critical side didn’t let me.
When she's captured by the planet's rulers, a foul race of winged humanoids, you know Cairn isn't going to stand for that.Almuric had a very sketchy history, an unfinished novel draft published after Howard's death, and there's a lot of speculation that somebody else ghost-wrote it to completion.
a lesser of Howard's works, at best.So while it's a fun little jaunt, it lacks the depth and character of other sword-and-planet writers like Burroughs and Brackett.
Howard fans will definitely get a kick out of it, as will anyone looking for more pulpy sword-and-plant novels, but it's weaker than the average Conan or Kane story, and isn't a good starting point.(Full review found here.)
"I am certain that I could have torn out his biceps like rotten cloth, broken his spine across my knee, or caved in his breastbone with my clenched fist; and as for speed, the most finely trained Earth athlete would have seemed awkward and sluggish in comparison to the tigerish quickness lurking in my rippling sinews.Yet for all that, I knew that I would be strained to the uttermost even to hold my own with the giant they called Ghor the Bear.
He did, indeed, resemble a shaggy rusty-hued cave-bear."God love Robert E.
Howard.
Three stars because his later work was much improved.
I found this short (~150 ebook pages) novella very enjoyable.
It's almost an exploration of tropes, and while that has apparently turned some people off, I liked the way the narrator/protagonist reflects on the state of man on Earth and on Almuric, I liked his treatment of the issue of feminism, and I liked how although he tries to find good/humanity in the various races of Almuric, sometimes evil is evil for evil's sake and that's all there is to it.
Solid writing from Howard, and at this length with this level of inventiveness, I'd suggest you give it a try.
I hate giving REH such a low rating as he is one of my favorite writers and there were flashes of potential in Almuric. However, this just isn't on the same level as Conan, Solomon Kane, Kull, etc.Like the Barsoom novels, Almuric suffered from too much telling and not enough showing, as well as a lack of characterization of the non-POV characters. It also seemed like REH tried to throw in too many bad guys/monsters/etc. rather than focusing on one solid story arc. As a result, the pacing was off.
It's a masterpiece!
By 1939 I guess that Robert E Howard's publishers and/or readers were getting tired of Conan the Barbarian and said, "What if he went to space?" Esau is the toughest, strongest, fastest man on Earth.
When he gets transported to the planet Almuric, where everything is tougher, stronger and faster than him, he goes through character development and becomes the toughest, strongest, fastest man on his new planet.
A hero who either defeats all of his foes or gets knocked unconscious until it's a convenient time to wake up.
A relatively decent pulp adventure on another world, sort of REH's take on a John Carter-like novel, filled with plenty of testosterone and blood.Fighter Esau Cairn is transported to another world in another galaxy where he battles fierce beasts, swarthy warriors, hyaena men, and demon-like people.
He makes his way into (im)polite society and finds a young lady to love, but these activities are almost secondary to the unending violence encountered and dealt on the wild planet.It's fine.
The writing isn't REH's most articulate or poetic.
It's not the worst pulp novel I've read, by any means, but I wouldn't recommend it as a starting point for someone exploring the genre or author.
Πολύ καλή ιστορία, δοσμένη με μοναδικό τρόπο από τον Χάουαρντ. Μπορεί να μην έχουμε να κάνουμε με τον Κόναν, αλλά και ο Ήσο Καίρν τα καταφέρνει περίφημα, παρουσιάζοντας μας μία μαγευτική περιπέτεια με αλλόκοτα τοπία, παράξενα πλάσματα και δράση που δεν σταματά ποτέ. Ο Χάουαρντ διαμόρφωσε με τα γραπτά του τη λογοτεχνία του φανταστικού ως έναν βαθμό και αυτή η ιστορία είναι άλλο ένα φωτεινό παράδειγμα της έμπνευσής του.
Answers the question of what would happen if Robert E. Howard had written "A Princess of Mars."
