https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91476.Grave_Peril
I like awesome, interesting female characters, and while I will give you that Murphy is awesome, the rest aren't cutting it for me.
(Never mind that every time a female character DOES show up, no matter how dire the peril, Harry makes sure to describe the precise way whatever she's wearing cups her breasts.
We can still stay friends, though, because I've heard your friend Codex Alera is kind of cool, and I wouldn't mind hanging out with him maybe.And if anyone tells you that this is because I've already been hanging out with a different wizard named Harry, you leave that sweet British boy out of this, Dresden.
And uninteresting.✘ Because everytime Harry said "Hell's bells" I eyerolled my little self to death and felt like smashing my Kindle against the nearest wall.✘ Because this book made me feel like I'd missed an instalment in the series.✘ Because blah blah blah and blah killed the story.✘ Because I cannot stand Michael, Charity, their freaking righteousness, and incessant, exasperating, ever-moralizing religious speeches.
And where the hell did these two come from, anyway?✘ Because this story is so uninspired not even Bob the Ever-Awesome Skull managed to save it from a 2-star rating.✘ And because I get seriously pissed off when someone kidnaps one of my hot sex slaves book boyfriends and replaces him with a pathetic, boring, sobbing copy.» And the moral of this Crappy Non-Review is (CNR™): Harry Dresden, you are dismissed.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsBR with my peeps at: Buddies Books and BaublesSpecifically:  Robin (Bridge Four) ,  Jenny ,  Lila , and  Steven 3.5 starsGRAVE PERIL was a kind of awkward installment. A year has passed since the end of FOOL MOON, and in the interim, not only have Harry and Susan stayed together and are now in a committed relationship, but at some point Harry and our favorite officers of law enforcement have taken down a Bad Guy sorcerer who was using a demon, teenagers, drugs, orgies, an
A year has passed since the end of FOOL MOON, and in the interim, not only have Harry and Susan stayed together and are now in a committed relationship, but at some point Harry and our favorite officers of law enforcement have taken down a Bad Guy sorcerer who was using a demon, teenagers, drugs, orgies, and did I mention, a DEMON, to wreak various havocs in Chicago, the latter continually brought up in vague references .
And that vaguely referenced takedown is the source of this book's plot.
Like Harry himself says:
Oh, there are versions that I like well enough, but in truth they're merely at the top of the "Dead Things" list.
*frowns*ALSO, Harry says, "Hell's bells," twenty-eight times.So I had a LOT of problems with this book.
Like Thomas.
I don't know which is worse.It's not that there's anything wrong with this book.
In my view.- I typically don't like ghost stories, so there's that.- I don't like religious fanaticism, and one of the main supporting characters in this is one, so there's that.- This feels like it was written a long time ago, with the goofy things Harry says.
There has nevernever, okay only ever ever one time, been a series that actually did get better as it went along and that was The Hollows series by Kim Harrison.
I read books wrong all the time.
Tormented, violent, and deadly ghosts that only Harry Dresden can stop.
I'm not sure if he's in it for the long run, but the Harry-Michael team was a very fun read.
As an UF novel with a wizard as the main character, magic should be copious.
In the first and second novels, the author introduced the Giant scorpions, Oversexed vampires, and Psychotic werewolves.
To be honest I wanted the scorpions to make their reappearance, but necessary for the plot, we got the oversexed vampires.
I don't want to spoil so let's just say both the main villains were violent and fun to read.
Good ol' Harry Dresden is at it again, only this time the werewolves have been replaced with ghosts and vampires.
Wow. The book starts out well with Harry and a new character named Michael,who is this crazy broadsword wielding priest, tracking down a ghost in the newborn wing of a hospital.
It's like one of those roller coasters you ride as a kid where the hills aren't very big so you just kinda go up and down over and over.
Also, the thing Harry is after would have been much, much better if it had been given a prequel book of some sort.
In my first review for The Dresden Files I threatened to send my underwear collection to Jim Butcher as a heavy fangirl thank you for creating something so mindblowing than our boy Harry.
This caused one fellow reviewer to speculate that perhaps I did not go through with my threats as Butcher never blogged about receiving a collection of quality lingerie.
The way he develops through each book, bringing our boy Harry to life with his laid back, sexy, casual, friend-to-friend style is remarkable.
1 Star: ✰  *Sigh* I wrote out a pretty long review for this book, but then I went to submit it and Goodreads crashed on me, and I lost it -_-. I seriously need to start writing my reviews in a word document. But ANYWAYS, that all just means that my rambling, ranty review from before has now become even MORE ranty and rambling and lacking order (and probably has typos), so enjoy ;]. I was originally going to give this book two stars, but quite honestly, there really isn’t anything I liked about
That a woman (and ONLY WOMEN) appears on these pages, Butcher apparently thinks it’s necessary to give us commentary about every curve of her body, in a super weird way.
(WHY ????????????) And it’s even worse when you have to constantly be reading about it throughout the entire book.
Why didn’t Butcher just write a separate book about THAT mission, which was apparently so pivotal for Harry and the series?
Much better then the first two! I'm cheering for Harry Dresden again!
I actually didn’t care about the romance so much until the VERY end but the other stuff was fantastic.Who are these fantastic side characters?Ϟ Michael Ϟ – THE FIST OF GOD - is a fantastic addition.
Plus she and Michael have an amazing beginning story…At least I think it is amazing since He slayed a fire-breathing dragon to save her Okay there are a few more very interesting characters that get a little page time including Ferro a dragon in human form, Mavra, of the Black Court of Vampires and a walking Nightmare.
Another satisfying entry in The Dresden Files.
Harry Dresden is again saving the world from supernatural creatures so that we can all sleep soundly in our beds at night.
He's joined by a knight of the church, an intrepid reporter and his familiar, Bob.There are vampires, fairies and ghosts, oh my!
Plus some other magical creatures thrown in for good measure.(view spoiler)[My one complaint is that my favorite character, Murphy, doesn't figure as largely into this plot as she did in the last book.
(hide spoiler)]Recommended for fans of urban fantasy, The Dresden Files is the tops.
Also, if you can, listen to the audio books.
2.5ish stars.An improvement over the last book, but still not quite making good on the promising potential that's supposed to be there.I definitely like this better than Fool Moon.
I do appreciate the introduction of at least a few major status quo changes and some plot lines that Butcher can start to thread throughout the series.To be perfectly honest, I don't think these books are particularly well written.
Peter David did this character so much better with Jamie Madrox in X-Factor, Vol. 1: The Longest Night.Why am I still reading this series, then?
I had lot of fun and rating could have been higher if not for ending, specially for one cheesy moment and ending of story arc that followed. One thing I hate the most is when things reset to status quo instead of moving forward.
If there was, Jim Butcher must have accidentally missed it because the main character, Harry Dresden, seemed to remark on the breasts of basically every female/vampire/fae/whatever he came across in this book and it honestly annoyed me.
Oh and apparently Michael is not Harry's brother, which for some reason I thought I read the first time around but that was definitely not the case, he's just some super-powered religious dude with a sword that Harry knows.So in summary, less objectifying of women, less use of the annoying phrase 'hell's bells', and a plot that doesn't revolve around a character the reader never even got to meet would have improved this book.
First, Murphy barely makes an appearance and the absence of a strong willed, take no prisoners, female character detracts from the overall effect of the story.
In the first two books, his attitude toward women comes across as gallant and even chivalrous, but the chauvinism is front and center in this one as Harry fixates on the breasts and luscious curves of virtually every female character - is this really necessary?
All in all, the world building is strong, the story has potential and the unanswered questions are interesting enough to keep on with the series.
Jim Butcher put a lot of thoughts into his world building, characterization and plotting, but it seems like he has done all the heavy lifting and the reader does not need to make any real effort to follow the story.
By the end of the book, I felt quite satisfied and look forward to reading many more of Harry Dresden's ridiculous adventures.___________________Worldbuilding Quotes: These are examples of Jim Butcher's elaborate world building rather than passages of literary beauty (of which there is none, it's not that kind of book).“Not a house,”I said.
There seems to be a common idea amongst fans and new arrivals alike to this series, that this, the third book in the series, is where it starts to get good.
I’ve read the series and started again while I’m waiting for the next volume- I think the first two are great too.
And this might be the one where Harry Dresden starts to slip-by his own standards- taking actions and committing deeds that in an ideal world he would not have chosen to do.
Harry is the ultimate underdog in a way.
Another great read.
Honestly, i feel like these books keep on getting better and better.
It was a fast easy read, that was engaging, funny, and typical Harry Dresden.
I feel like with every new installment, his writing its becoming more mature and prolific.
For me everything is starting to feel a bit more complete and i'm finding it easier to start relating to Harry and the world all around him.
I was happy to finally have more contact with the nevernever and more of a multiple narrative that was different from the typical linear style from the previous novels.
However the second half of the book picked up in a big way: the vampire ball sequence was probably the highlight of the series so far for me with the introduction of some really intriguing characters, some cool moments, big revelations about the plot, and an air of tension throughout that culminated in an awesome action scene.
Later in the book the introduction of Thomas, a morally ambiguous vampire who forms an uneasy alliance with Harry, was a massive boost to the story and I really hope to see more of him, especially as he serves as an awesome contrast to Harry's frequently annoying goody-two-shoes self righteous behavior.
I will probably have to find a print version, as I kept getting distracted from the story and am fairly certain I missed huge chunks of plot.
Speaking of stock, am I the only person unimpressed by the story-line?
Harry might irritate me, but Murphy makes me glad she's a fictional character, because she is too obnoxious to live.Also, I love James Marsters and could listen to him talk to me for hours, but if he has to say Hell's Bells ONE more time, I may be tempted to punch him.
WOW, what a great book !!!Fool Moon was much better than Storm Front, and Grave Peril is even better than Fool Moon.The series is definitely getting better and evolves to something bigger and very engaging,no doubt that Jim Butcher is a great author. That's an action packed book with lots of humor,magic and great characters. I really liked Harry's Godmother and Michael as a new characters, Harry and Bob are great (as usual).Highly recommended !!!
I enjoyed this book the first time I read it years ago but listening to James Marsters perform this story really takes it to a whole new level.
I completely enjoyed every moment that I spent listening to this book during my re-read.Harry Dresden's life is anything but boring.
Karin, Bob, Susan and everyone else really all added important pieces to the story as well.James Marsters is the perfect voice of Harry Dresden.
I can't wait to listen to more books narrated by James Marsters.I would highly recommend this series to fans of urban fiction.
(She is supposed to be smart, so why does she do something so moronic?) I feel like the women are all selfish sex objects.The writing technique is mostly clean and conversational with a few dips into purple prose, but I noticed the tendency to hurtle up to a tipping point, end the chapter, and then draw way, way back into a philosophical musing at the beginning of the next chapter rather than continuing with the action.
I would have liked that on occasion, but not chapter after chapter.So even though I rated it a three (because of the icky representation of women), I really loved certain elements of the book, and reading the way it was worded and constructed helped me wrap my head around the way I approach writing myself, what works for me and what doesn't.
As promised they are getting better. There even seems to be a bit of humor coming though (by way of Bob the skull.)
Oh Wow! I loved this book more than I ever thought I would. It was just perfect for Halloween also! One of my favorite fantasy mystery series.
Took me 5 days to finish this book.
Thanks to Rizwan vai who took out his time to convince me that Dresden files is worth another try after I felt very disappointed reading Storm Front.
Well, it was not difficult getting around this without reading fool moon.
I love magic and the magical world, spells, wand, faeries, potions.
But it has love potion :P Enough about the book.
The best way to find how much good this book is to read it yourself.
And I like badass people like Harry Dresden.
My New Year Resolution: I am going to read the whole Dresden series this year.
While I had issues with the plot, the expansionary paranormal worldbuilding and development of Harry's character continued to be the highlight of the series.
Harry gained a sidekick, so to speak, from a new character, Michael Carpenter - a Knight of the Cross who wields Amoracchius, an incredibly powerful object of faith in the form of a sword.
There will be some serious consequences to our Wizard P.I. post the climactic events at the end of this instalment so while I both enjoyed and felt frustrated with this read, my curiosity and love for the supernatural should keep me powering through this series for the moment.
And I can see that, this is fun urban fantasy and built to move … along to the next book.Taking place some time after the events in Butcher’s 2001 novel Fool Moon, where Harry fought some werewolves and even a super duper kind of ancient werewolf; Grave Peril sees our hero with a new friend, White Knight paladin dude Michael, and some of the same characters form the previous two.
(The party, BTW, is classic).Writer Jim Butcher has a winning formula and a seemingly endless supply of urban fantasy drama to draw from.
"Hell's Bells" count: 26If you're reading this series in sequence (which you absolutely should be, or things will stop making sense very quickly), you've got a good handle on how the world of Harry Dresden operates.
While you may think that belonging to a worldwide magical fraternity might be a good thing, Harry Dresden would most certainly disagree.
This thing is angry, evil, and can tear a person's soul apart, leaving an empty husk that does nothing but try to scream.As if that weren't enough, the Red Court of Vampires is having a party, and they want Harry to come.
You know when you are reading a story and you are thinking, "There is just NO way the characters can get out of this jam!!
They are for sure going to die!!" And part of your brain knows that they can't die, because there are like, a bajillion more books in the series, but the action is so intense that you are at the edge of your seat, trying to figure out how the MCs are going to get out of that mess?
However, I think this was one of the most intense books in the series, and I was totally riveted the entire time.
