https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8709527-bloodlines
Yes, people who loved Vampire Academy series and are dying to read this book, NOTHING.I wouldn't say I didn't like Bloodlines.
I am reading and reading and reading, and suddenly the book finishes and I am just staring at the freaking wall and being like, "Thats it?"FAIL#5 No romance at all.
I am rating this book 2.5/5 stars (half of the book was bearable) I liked Bloodlines, but these points I mentioned above irritated me alot and I am going to read the next book because of Adrian, Sydney and Eddie.I AM DISAPPOINTED!
LOVED IT! This was the perfect book for me to finally shake off the rest of the reading slumpy feelings that were hanging around. I was surprisingly happy with Sydney's character and I love her banter with Adrian! I can't wait to see where this series is going to go and I need the next book pronto. Definitely recommend if you enjoyed the Vampire Academy series!
“My God, Sage. Your eyes. How have I never noticed them?"That uncomfortable feeling was spreading over me again. "What about them?""The color," he breathed. "When you stand in the light. They're amazing... like molten gold. I could paint those..." He reached toward me but then pulled back. "They're beautiful. You're beautiful.”     “The greatest changes in history have come when people were able to shake off what others told them to do.”   I love this series! I love this book! Even though ther
I liked Sydney when I read Vampire Academy!
Sydney is an alchemist, a group of humans who is keeping the vampire world a secret from humanity.
It was so obvious.2)I loved the relationship and trust between Adrian and Sydney.They understand each other even though Adrian is vampire and Sydney is human.
Sydney and Adrian expose him and Keith end up at the re-education.
Then, he called his his Strigoi friends using Sydney and Adrian as a bargain for being re-awakened.
7)I loved the relationship between Jill and Sydney.
Sydney treats her like sister even though Jill is a vampire.
118 days, 30 hours, and counting...IT HAS A COVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!All I have to say is Adrian better be in this series, and he better find someone to love him, or else I'm going to have to jump into the book and make him mine.Update: According to Mead's blog:Bloodlines is the spin-off series to Vampire Academy (it's the name of the first book and of the series).
I'm not saying who that last guy is, but it's mostly to protect those who haven't read Last Sacrifice.
If you have read it, then it should be pretty obvious who the other character is.So, clearly, this means it is 100% confirmed that Adrian is in it, so YAY!!!
Her books always contain: * Strong, kick-ass heroines * Fun action sequences * Completely immersive urban fantasy * Snarky humor * Strong emotional story arcs * Cute, cute boys.Always, that is, except in the case of her most recent book, Bloodlines, a new spin-off series from her Vampire Academy books.
I've read all thirteen of the author's previous novels, including her adult urban fantasy series Dark Swan and Georgina Kincaid, and I'm sorry to say that I've never before had such a hard time getting into one of her books.Sydney, the main character in Bloodlines, was never all that interesting to me in VA--but if anything, she's even harder to connect with here.
Adrian Ivashkov.  “They’re waiting for you. Go on in.” Adrian leaned close to Keith’s ear and spoke in an ominous voice. “If.You.Dare.” He poked Keith’s shoulder and gave a "Muhahaha” kind of monster laugh.”    “Yeah? Can you draw a skeleton riding a motorcycle with flames coming out of it? And I want a pirate hat on the skeleton. And a parrot on his shoulder. A skeleton parrot. Or maybe a ninja skeleton parrot? No, that would be overkill. But it'd be cool if the biker skeleton could be shootin
“If.You.Dare.” He poked Keith’s shoulder and gave a "Muhahaha” kind of monster laugh.” 
Can you draw a skeleton riding a motorcycle with flames coming out of it?
And I want a pirate hat on the skeleton.
And a parrot on his shoulder.
A skeleton parrot.
Or maybe a ninja skeleton parrot?
But it'd be cool if the biker skeleton could be shooting some ninja throwing stars.
I was starting to wonder if Jill was adopted, but you two kind of look like each other.""So does our mailman back in North Dakota," said Adrian.” 
To circumvent this plan of attack, Jill is tucked away at Amberwood Preparatory Academy with a posse of guardians including the Alchemist Sydney Sage, the dhampir Eddie and our beloved Adrian.
They band together to keep Jill safe and try to move on and build some semblance of a life in the aftermath of VA.I feel Sydney was the perfect choice to narrate this story as the main character.
The bond between the four main players, Sydney, Eddie, Adrian and Jill is forming and I can’t wait to see where their journey will lead.
“I’d name it Latte, hoping my love of coffee would soon transfer to the car.” (What’d she say?) I also couldn’t care for the characters except for this Adrian guy (I think he’s kinda cute!).
I just couldn’t love a gal who thinks size four is huge (*rolls eyes*) although I also felt bad for her because the other character, Jill, who gets everybody’s attention took the entire stage from her.
It’s as if the story’s really about Jill in the POV of a supporting character, Sydney (poor gal).
The short of it: I'm going to offer the unpopular opinion here and say that I enjoyed this book more than some of the VA books (and this is coming from someone who gave all the books three to four stars each). I love Sydney, Adrian, Jill, and Eddie, and I love the chance to learn more about the Alchemists.
Πολύ καλή συνέχεια, Όχι στο επίπεδο του va βέβαια, Αλλά δεν είχα τέτοια απαίτηση μιας και εδώ η πρωταγωνίστρια δεν είναι η Ροουζ.
Παρόλα αυτά η Σίντνεϊ είναι πολύ συμπαθητικήΗ σειρά βαδίζει στα χνάρια του va.
Είχα αγαπήσει τον 'Εντι από το τρίτο βιβλίο του va αλλά τώρα τον λατρεύω.Δεν χρειάζεται φυσικά να μιλήσω για τον Άντριαν.Η ιστορία, αν και κάπως πιο ήπια από το πρώτο βιβλίο va (η σύγκριση είναι αναπόφευκτη), έχει δυναμική, αναπτύσσεται και χτίζεται αργά αλλά σωστά.
Και φυσικά έχει ακαδημία!
Φέρτε μου βιβλία με ακαδημίες!Η καημένη η Σίντνει προσπαθεί να τα φέρει βόλτα με όλους τους τρελούς, αλλά βάζω στοίχημα ότι στο τέλος θα την κάνουν σαν τα μούτρα τους.
I liked that she still has issues with vampires and still considered them and their world to be evil and unnatural at times, and yet unlike the other alchemists, she treated them with respect and decency; interacting with them in a way that was kind and not unnecessarily cruel.
Throughout this book Sydney continued to grow and her ideas change and I think she has the potential to be an incredible heroine as the series continues.
I think there a tonnes of possibilities for the characters in this book and the ending was one that left me wanting more....stat!
I've proven it in her Vampire Academy series, and yet again, she proves her excellence in this book.
But in this book, we get to discover different characters that were featured in Vampire Academy-- the main characters Adrian Ivashkov and Sydney Sage.
In Vampire Academy series, most books seemed to have a light air.
Perhaps it was the way Richelle Mead created a much bigger scope to the Moroi, Strigoi, Dhampirs, and Alchemists' world that made the book a lot more intriguing.This is the kind of vampire book that really hooks me from page 1 up to the last.
I'm interested to see what happens between her and her father and sister in the later books.Question, Alchemists try to fit in with humans and keep the knowledge of Vampires a secret, correct?
I absolutely ADORED him in the VA series, and while I was ALL for Rose and Dimitri (I seriously shipped them so hard from book one) I felt so crushed for Adrian at the end of the series.
So I definitely think that Adrian and Sydney will become friends.
I hope that Jill fits in a little better in this next book.
When it was announced that Richelle Mead chose Sydney as the viewpoint character, I can’t say that I was thrilled, but I decided to give her the benefit of the doubt.
After reading 11 of her books, I obviously know how Mead’s brain works.
There wasn’t a single thing that surprised me in Bloodlines.
Those of you who’ve read the book will know exactly what I’m talking about.
I should be anxiously awaiting the sequel because of the main characters, not because she decided to bring HIM back on the last page of Bloodlines.
It doesn’t matter that her trick worked.
Unfortunately, Bloodlines will sit right up there with Last Sacrifice on my shelf of predictability.Plot I won't retell the book here, but the gist is that Sydney, along with Eddie and Adrian, travel to a prep school in Palm Springs, California to keep Jill safe while she is in hiding.
I think one of the biggest problems with this book lies with the fact that most readers have already read the Vampire Academy series.
I think this book could have scored more points with me had I never known the back story of Adrian, Rose, Jill, Eddie, and Lissa.
Was I supposed to read the Vampire Academy series before this? Because I had no idea what was happening for the first bit of this book and had to keep checking to confirm it was the start of this series. It felt like I was missing crucial worldbuilding or some kind of insider info. Without knowing that stuff, the characters seemed flat & the plot was super cliche angsty YA. I just didn't really care.UPDATE: I'll read Vampire Academy then - thank you everyone!
Right away, though, Sydney learns just how difficult it is protecting a vampire princess in a human world and that Alchemists may not know as much about vampires as they believed.I don't feel like you should go into Bloodlines without at least knowing what happened in the Vampire Academy series; however, if you haven't read it, you'll just be like Sydney, missing details and information that VA readers would already know.
I feel like I understand him a whole lot better now, and I can't believe I never noticed how great he was while reading Vampire Academy.
Caution: a lot of bitchiness will be used in this review. Fangirls beware!I have to admit that I didn’t start this with a smile on my face. My first thought when I saw this spinoff start was "But why?"I have a problem with authors (and not only) milking their products too much. That was exactly my impression when I saw this book. But then I said “Hey, maybe I’m wrong. Maybe this will be the start of something beautiful.” Broken dreams… ”A picture is worth a thousand words” This is why my review
My first thought when I saw this spinoff start was "But why?"I have a problem with authors (and not only) milking their products too much.
That was exactly my impression when I saw this book.
Maybe this will be the start of something beautiful.” Broken dreams…
Yeeii!!!!Let’s make a summary now, shall we?I’m sorry was this supposed to be a book or the diary of a boring kid?
I thought this spinoff was useless when I first saw it and I know now that I was right.They took the most boring characters, minus Adrian of course, and placed them all together.
Today I'd like to hone some of my (poor) mathematical skills and entertain you with some simple but self-explaining equations: Bloodlines: Richelle Mead= x: Cassandra Clare Hint: Spin-offs? Bad idea. You either planned them from the very beginning or anybody in this solar system can see that you're clutching at straws here. Lissa : Rose = Adrian : x Hint: Spirit users have a most peculiar ability. If you're familiar with Aladdin like I am, you'll know it's one of the wishes that the genie cannot
If you have, then you also have figured out that, in Bloodlines, Richelle Mead has taken a lot of Vampire Academy, given it a touch up and presented it to us AGAIN.Sub plots differ, of course, but the general idea?
Not to mention the fact that this book is like a DIESEL car.
And frankly, after the way he got treated by Rose in VA, I could not help but feel indulgent towards him.So, mathematical rant aside, I will pick up the next book in the series.
SYDNEY SAGE MY LOVEI need to read this NOW
I'm sure if Mead wasn't looking for unsubstantiated length and was looking for making the beginning interesting in any way, she would've condensed the chapter, maybe made it about 10 pages shorter.
She's definitely not the Rose-Georgina-Eugenie-type main characters I've come to expect from Mead.Chapter ThreeYeah.
Sydney is not, however, an interesting main character.
Rose is the most badass character to step onto the page in this book, which is sad but good.
In a book about Rose, Mead wouldn't have written entire scenes about her being in class.
I feel like it's a good start to the rest of the series, it's not too heavy to digest, and I can't wait to see what the next books will bring.
I found it really enjoyable and I was glad to see some familiar characters returning like Eddie, Jill, Sydney and especially Adrian!
I like that they chose Sydney as the new heroine because she's totally different from Rose but still really awesome!
It was so nice being back in the world Richelle Mead created! I'm really enjoying Sydney, and of course Adrian with all his hilarious lines. This book was pretty predictable but super fun, a lot like Vampire Academy, so I'm going straight into Golden Lily!
“Takes a lot of tries before you hit perfection." He paused to reconsider that. "Well, except for my parents. They got it on the first try.” I enjoyed this immensely and I must admit I'm surprised I did love it. It's been more than a year and a half since I've read the 'Vampire Academy' series and I had been delaying reading 'Bloodlines' because I thought it wouldn't meet the standards I had set after the last 'Vampire Academy' installment. I must admit I had forgotten how fun this world was. I
I had forgotten how snarky and bright Mrs. Mead's characters are, especially Adrian, which I've loved ever since reading 'Vampire Academy' and the way his heart got broke after Rose and Dimitri reunited made me feel for him even more.I had taken a special interest into Sydney when she had first appeared in 'Blood Promise' and found her an interesting character for Rose to be around.
I highly recommend this, especially if you're a fan of the 'Vampire Academy' series and the world Mrs. Mead has created.
Spoiler-free review!There's one really bad thing about getting to read an ARC three months before the release date -- especially with the ending that Bloodlines has -- and that's that I have to wait THAT much longer for the next book in the series.I consider myself kind of an authority on the original series after being given the chance to reread them to put together Vampire Academy: The Ultimate Guide (out November 15th!
While all those characters get lots of "screen time," it's first person from Sydney's POV throughout, which gives it the same feel as the original books -- although, Sydney and Rose could not be more different.
You can't read this book unless you've read VA lets put it that way shall we.We should be able to read BLOODLINES without VA but there's so much going on that links with VA and then of course you have the old characters making entrances left, right and centre, which I loved, seriously.
But when the old characters are the things that you look forward to, when Adrian is the one character that seems to keep the book interesting, who really shouldn't even be in the book - as much as I adore him, makes it's obvious, something is not right.Then there is the fact that I did not like Sydney.
Rose appears, fabulous as always, Eddie and Jill and Adrian finally get a chance to show who they are and...this book is just WOW!After the story with Rose Adrian is broken.
Sydney is responsible for all the vampires in this book.
She realizes that the vampires aren't as bad as the Alchemist say and it confuses her.
During the whole book I felt connected with Sydney because, as Rose, she is not perfect and not stereotypical.
But as for me, the book is a perfect combination of fantasy and reality.
The ones who love "Vampire Academy" and Fantasy books in general should definitely read it.
After reading:I finished VA – the entire series couple of days ago and even though the ending was satisfying, there are few questions left unanswered.
I read few reviews before started reading, and I simply cannot imagine someone like Sydney Sage with Adrian Ivashkov.
“You do?”I was no better at reading people than I had been ten seconds ago, but in that moment, I suddenly gained a flash of understanding into the mystery that was Adrian Ivashkov.People didn’t believe in him very often.
Adrian Ivashkov – flippant, vampire party boy – was more like me than anyone else I know.
I love Adrian and Sydney as a couple- there's just that spark between them that was missing with Adrian and Rose and it makes me feel like I can finally appreciate Adrian as his own character without the shadow of Rose and (in particular) Dimitri.
Saying all this, something about this book just made me feel like it was a fanfiction story.
Like someone ELSE had taken the ideas of the authour and extended the plot from the perspective of a different character.
Not the same- but still a great dose of VA in a completely different form.
Perhaps, since it is told from Alchemist Sydney Sage's point of view, a look at some many well known Moroi and Dhampir characters through fresh eyes.
Until reading the following:Jill's secure location is sunny Palm Springs (because who would suspect a vampire of hiding out in such a sun filled location?) Jill is to attend a human boarding school with Eddie as her guardian.
A new character, Keith, who has a past with Sydney is another Alchemist along for the ride (clearly he is here to create drama.
