https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5139.The_Devil_Wears_Prada
Little background is given of the title character other than she grew up in a lower class family, changed her name, and worked her way up the corporate ladder to her current position as editor-in-chief.
While she keeps being reminded that hers is a job that “a million girls would die for” and that working for Miranda for a year would save her 3-5 years of experience elsewhere, she decides to blow up at her boss in the 11th hour.
The book  Andrea has a steady boyfriend Ales, and lives with her best friend from childhood, Lily  Takes the job because it's the only magazine in New York that offered an interview  Puts her personal life on hold to be the beck-and-call girl for a Bitch  Meets a hot writer who is totally jonesing for her and offers her several opportunities to, ahem improve her social standing  She kinda ignores her failing love life and her best friend's alcohol addiction until it's too late to reverse either  Goes to Paris with Miranda because the Sr. Assistant gets Mono  When is Paris she gets the call that her best friend's drinking caused a terrible accident and she must come home  Finally has her fill and tells Miranda off, then gets fired  Kinda blah ending in which she gets freelance work and gets to waltz back into the Runway office for a potential writing assignment   
I am generally bothered by books and films wherein the main character is offered an incredible opportunity, but because they are worried they are sacrificing themselves, they toss it out the window.
While I realize that these stories are supposed to be inspirational tales of right triumphing, I always feel vaguely disgusted when I finish them-- to a great extent, they remind me of what we are told at the beginning of law school.
If the heroine in Prada was truly strong, she would not have had to sell her soul, she could have kept the job and realised it was just that...
The movie was too good. Huuuuuuuuge gulf between the book and the film. I kept thinking: maybe the beginning was just slow? Maybe the middle needed a bit more time?   Despite all my deep breaths and meditation, I could not stand this book. The main character (Andrea) is so wholly irredeemable that she ruins the book. Sure, she sacrifices her a few years for Miranda (ha! name buddies) Priestly but Andrea whines her way through every little task and I lost all sympathy within the first chapter. He
name buddies) Priestly but Andrea whines her way through every little task and I lost all sympathy within the first chapter.
The way she berated the other girls and acted so above them (often showing this by eating the calorie-laden soup in front of them) just struck my last nerve.And yes, Miranda is supposed to be the bad character but  I liked her so much more than Andrea.
The whole chapter gave off an ominous vibe and I honestly thought that was going to be her getting raped or at least assaulted by drunk HotGuy. He's inebriated, he manipulated the entire evening to force her hand...despite her telling him repeatedly that she has boyfriend.
I read this a few years ago, and still remember what a rollicking good ride it was.
It was like watching a train wreck in slow motion.
In a good way, that is.
I'm sure there's a good way to watch a train wreck if we think about it long enough.
In the interest of full disclosure, I spent several years in what we shall charitably call the fashion industry.
So is fear of boss after boss after boss.
Abject fear.
I likely will never read another Weisberger novel.
But The Devil Wears Prada was a 5-star read for me.
Andrea acts like the super expensive, fashionable clothes that everybody wears are ridiculous, and yes, she sells what she has at the end, but she also puts down Franco Sarto shoes and Ann Taylor (or was it Express?), which made Andy pretty hard to relate to since most people reading the book are probably wearing those things.
I'm sorry if you want me to stay, but I have to go." Which, okay, that's not the best ending either, but really, don't bring up the whole friend in an accident thing, and then have Andy blow up and quit because she couldn't get Miranda's two kids some passports.
Should've skipped the reread.
“Millions of girls would die for this job”OK, I know what you’re saying, “you’re that knuckle dragging redneck from Tennessee, what’re YOU doing reading about high fashion in New York and Paris”???Fair question.
I liked her erudite use of language, she can turn a phrase with the best of them.For any out there who don’t know what this is all about, quick summary: college grad with aspirations of being a writer lucks into “the dream job” as the personal assistant to the editor of Runway magazine, a thinly disguised roman e clef about Vogue magazine and Weisberger’s time there.
Still, I sought out the book because I felt that, as with most film adaptations, a lot of depth had probably been jettisoned, and rightly so, in the translation to the screen.
One of the most charming and fully-realized characters (relatively speaking, here) in the movie was nothing more than a throwaway gay joke in the book.
And whereas there's growth and change among most of the major players in the movie, the novel pays only lip service to "your characters must change by the end of the book," and then only to the protagonist, whose "change" is telegraphed from page 1.
The only reason I waste words on this piece of trash is that it holds the distinction of being THE WORST BOOK I EVER READ.
The title was held previously (for a good 15 years previously) by "The Bridges of Madison County," and it took some DOING to surpass that awfulness.I could write for three days about how much I hated this book.
I still can't believe I finished it, and the only explanation I have is that it was kind of like not being able to look away from a trainwreck.
Actually, "trainwreck" is a compliment to this thing.
this book blows.
it's poorly written, the author uses the same words over and over, characters just do things at random and don't seem to have identifiable personalities of their own.
if i was still in 5th grade and decided to write a book about working at a fashion magazine when i'm all grown up, this is what it would be like.
i hate that the girl who wrote this is probably a millionaire.
i'd like to hit her with a rock.
as far as i can figure, it gets one star because she bothered to type it instead of giving it to us in the original crayon on big white pieces of paper format.
This book was terrible, and I'm someone who enjoys chick lit.
The Devil Wears Prada is a roman-a-clef by Lauren Weisberger, a mediocre writer who takes herself too seriously.
The plot is just a series of bad decisions made by the novel's unlikeable protagonist Andy Sachs, who thinks the best way to become a writer for the New Yorker is by becoming an assistant at a Vogue style magazine for a year.
Andy spends most of the novel whining about her mundane entry-level job and stealing designer clothes from the sample room.
So when I saw the book in the library, I thought, “Why the hell not?” and brought it home with me.I think everyone knows the story by now – Andrea Sachs, who knows absolutely nothing about fashion, is thrown into a world where anything bigger than a size zero is frowned upon, carbs are the devil, and you should never wear that top with those shoes, or you’ll get lynched.
Only slowly but surely, she’s turning into a Clacker herself, and finds her personal life tumbling down in front of her very eyes.While the book was enjoyable, I didn’t like it as much as the movie.
i was reading this book at the same time i was working in a very similar environment as andy, the main character.
miranda liked her perrier placed everyday on a certain side of her desk.
my old boss, mehmet, liked his evian room temperature from the bakery across the street.
miranda would dump her coat and bags on andy every morning.
mehmet would hold out his arms for me to put his YSL coat on and bow his head down for me to put his burberry rain hat on top before he would scurry out of his office trailing his louis vuitton luggage behind him on his way to paris.
The Devil Wears Prada (I have yet to see the film adaptation), is a quite bizarre yet creative and comedic book that anyone who has ever worked a lousy job will be able to relate to.
It was like re-watching the movie again but in my head.
I'd rather watch the movie - it was less painful.The Devil Wears Prada was not a perfect book.
just kidding - here come the flaws people!Step one: When reading The Devil Wears Prada I suggest you have a bottle of wine somewhere near you.
The entire time I was reading this book, I was whining about her whining and how I would rather participate in a star wars movie marathon.
SPOILER: I don't like any of the Star Wars movies.
Step four: If you see this book..
For those who don't know about the first book in this series, we are following Andrea (or Andy) who gets a job at a famous, fashion magazine (similar to Vogue) which is run by the insane workaholic Miranda Priestly.
A job at a high end fashion magazine!
It's unique and dramatic!Andrea's journey involves her changing (and sometimes growing) along the way, as she encounters all of the antics of being in the fashion world: uptight assistants, overbearing bosses, deadlines, insomnia, and work/life balance.This book is in it's own niche market - it became really popular, but it's not for everyone.
I really wasn't that into this book. There were some parts of the book that were great, but mostly it was a VERY slow read and pretty hard to get into. I think that it didn't help that I had watched the movie multiple times and LOVED it. I had high expectations for this book and it did not deliver!
I kept thinking *THIS WILL BE A GREAT MOVIE* but never a good book. I was really disappointed and on a side note ... when I DID watch the movie I was so disappointed because all I could think was * This would be a GREAT book.
Then, I saw the movie and thought "I know it's been a while, but I really don't remember all this happening" - so, when I saw the book on the charity table, I figured it's only a quid, why not.Criminey, the things you forget - like what a whiney and generally unlikeable person the main character is.
It's the "something for nothing" mentality that really drags the book down - she seems to think that she can do a year as an admin and it's worth 3 years anywhere else - but somehow, that isn't going to involve work.I'll finish it, but I'll also put it back on the charity pile w/o a backwards glance.
I love these people so much that nothing else but The Devil Wears Prada could make me want to give them bloodied noses.
Well, that was a waste of time.
I LOVE the film.
It's one of my favourites and I've seen it dozens of times.
The book, however, was not even remotely impressive.
The dialogue was just so...flat.
I felt no emotion in any of the characters and none of them really felt individual to me.
Most of the book is taken up with references to fashion labels, so much so that it was like reading one big giant advertisement.
I am quite disappointed but I guess it's just a rare case of the movie actually being better than the book.
Oh I love this chick lit. I enjoy the movie. I can relate to the characters. Having a nightmare boss who demands everything must be ready for her, is just funny as hell. This is the ultimate chick lit.
If you've never read this book, do so in order to gain a glimpse into what total suffering can be.Regarding Miranda Priestly, it is rare that I have come across a character that deserves a slow a horrid death, but she deserves to die slowly.
Once finished with these (perhaps one year later, maybe two), poisoning by strychnine would be administered in order for her to suffocate and die of asphyxiation.Or, on the lighter side, simply putting several ounces of glass dust into her damned Starbucks's latte would be enough to grind her internal organs into hamburger over several months of a painful and slow death.No human being like Miranda should be allowed to live on Earth.
Se mantiene la idea básica de la jefa déspota, pero nada más.El argumento es bastante sencillo, ya que gira en torno al trabajo de la protagonista y las relaciones y emociones pasan a un segundo o tercer plano (además de que aunque quisiera seguir con su vida, no tendría tiempo de hacerlo).El diablo viste de Prada me resultó realmente divertido.
Lo que no le dijeron es que ese trabajo por el que miles de chicas darían un ojo de la cara sería como perder cinco años de vida, y despertaría en ella instintos asesinos (llevados con mucho humor).
I'm quite suprise how much I love this book.
Surely, it started with a very slow and almost to the point boring that it took me ages just to reach 100 pages mark.
But l'm glad that it getting more and more interesting after 100 pages mark.I enjoy the day to day task that Andy had to deal with.
And Miranda way of bossing and scaring people around her was absolute b***h.
What I love most about this book?
I love how Andy came to realization that being refers as young Miranda is not a compliment.
And I love how Andy turn the situation around.
Her relationship with Priestly's Senior Assistant Emily shows exactly that - either Emily is defending her boss and her rudeness or, when she is also a target, she is bad mouthing her in secret.Although she becomes more of a Runway girl Andrea keeps herself focused on the real job she wants - to write for The New Yorker, and can't resist sometimes feeling superior to everyone else who works for the magazine.
Maybe because I saw the movie before reading the book; I can't say I enjoyed this book. Found it far too long for the story it tells, and although the subject was intriguing the writing style was nothing special for me.
The Devil Wears Prada (The Devil Wears Prada #1), Lauren Weisberger

