https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25454883-never-never
Two teens have lost all their memories and must piece together who they are and what happened to them.Never Never: Part Two dawdled a little, but remained compelling.
What happened between Charlie and Silas's families?
More clues are revealed.
Secrets are uncovered.All that build...All those clues being pieced together...Surprising reveals and family betrayals...All...
for that ending.One which leaves a million loose ends.One which says "fuck you" to every clue and piece of information introduced.This is the dumbest, soppiest excuse for a mystery I have ever read.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Pinterest
I can't even.
I enjoyed this last part because I really like the characters Colleen and Tarryn created, but I'm somewhat disappointed with the explanation they gave to all this mystery.
I can't believe that everything that happened was because of...
What about all the clues we found in the first two parts?
I thought they were leading us to something, BUT NO!
The authors choose the most cheesy and ridiculous explanation to the memory loss :/.
And I'm not really mad, as I said: I enjoyed the final part, but I expected something amazing and just not...
THAT.ANYWAY, it wasn't a bad ending.
"Fate is a magnetic pull of our souls toward the people, places, and things we belong with"   Mmmh. What to rate this one. I only read this book because I was really intrigued and I needed to know how everything ended. Honestly, I lost interest in Silas and Charlie story, it's been a while since I finished part two and I wasn't happy with that cliffy, I really thought there were going to be just two books. I actually waited for part two to come out so I could start book one... I felt like kill
"Fate is a magnetic pull of our souls toward the people, places, and things we belong with"
Honestly, I lost interest in Silas and Charlie story, it's been a while since I finished part two and I wasn't happy with that cliffy, I really thought there were going to be just two books.
You see, I really liked where the mystery was leading me to and the book had my full attention but when I finally read the cause for Silas and Charlie's memorie loss I almost lost it.
TO SUM IT UP: Me after finishing the first book:Me after finishing the second book:AND me after finishing this book:(And that’s me while waiting in between the installments):
Rating: I Have No Idea!!!This review is not going to make sense so don’t read it!Well, seeing as you are still here I’ll continue.
Honestly I don’t know how I feel about the ending.
From one point of view it was well done but on the other I feel like I needed more of this theory.Is it a CoHo ending?
– Not telling you.Then it’s a Tarryn Fisher’s?
- Not telling you that either.Does it end on a cliffy?
- Tarryn and CoHo wrote this one together, what do you think you were getting yourself into!Then what will you tell us?
WHYYYYYYYYYY???? Are three parts really necessary?!?!
Please see more of my reviews at www.bookaddicthaven.com This was the third, and final, part of Silas and Charlie's story.
While I didn't hate the story's conclusion as much as most of my friends did, I am definitely disappointed.
Instead, after all the anticipation, we are given a sweet, but completely unbelievable explanation.
It was almost like they just got sick of the story and just wanted to end it quickly.
Again, it was disappointing.That being said, I didn't completely hate Part Three.
I'm a bit torn because I actually liked most of it, but the ending really dragged it down.
"Never Never" I was one of the few not so wowed by the second installment of this series. However, I loved the first book of this three book series. The idea of the story is interesting as are the characters in this series.On this release day, I happily one clicked this final installment excited for the big reveals… I was prepared for any assortment of explanations for this former couple’s constant amnesia: zombies, aliens, body swapping, voodoo what I got was CUTE yet felt lacking. "...what if
I was one of the few not so wowed by the second installment of this series.
However, I loved the first book of this three book series.
The idea of the story is interesting as are the characters in this series.On this release day, I happily one clicked this final installment excited for the big reveals… I was prepared for any assortment of explanations for this former couple’s constant amnesia: zombies, aliens, body swapping, voodoo what I got was CUTE yet felt lacking.
"...what if soul mates exist?
And once they come together, they can't fall apart?"
“I could spend every day getting to know you all over again, Charlie, and I don't think I'd get sick of it.”   When I started reading this finale of Never Never series, I've already decided to rate it either 4 or 5 stars. That moment when you're confident enough that the final book will give you the grandest, most surreal surprise. (Guess we all deserve that after those series of cliffhanger endings..) I must say my expectations were too high on this because I've enjoyed the first and the seco
When I started reading this finale of Never Never series, I've already decided to rate it either 4 or 5 stars.
(Guess we all deserve that after those series of cliffhanger endings..) I must say my expectations were too high on this because I've enjoyed the first and the second book real hard!
Ugh.I guess the only thing that does not make this book a total let-down was of course, the beautiful and powerful writing of Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher.
I guess those were the factors that held me together.(Some beautiful quotes I've highlighted, by the way.
It could be an epic finale if there was a better twist.
"Fate is the magnetic pull of our souls toward the people, places, and things we belong with."  THE DYNAMIC DUO DOES IT AGAIN!!!! Coho never lets me down! and Tarryn "can't write sweet romance" ha lies! These two nail suspense, mystery, romance, and oh so much more... And all of this is in a short story!!!! Say what!?! I had so much F-ing fun reading these!!!!! And that ending!!!! Omg wtf!!!!Longer review to come
I wish I could forget...(view spoiler)[2016 Reading Challenge #09: A book that's under 150 pages.  (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Buddy read with Rechellyn (click to read her sentiments about it)I've been waiting for so long.After that torture cliffhanger. I'm just desperate for an explanation of all these craziness.Now, it's over.I'm going to be honest.I'm underwhelmed. I wasn't thrilled nor surprised by the twist. I was expecting it to be a mindfuck.Overall, it's an entertaining novella series. The ending isn't as good as I've expected.------------------------------------------------------------THERE'S A PART 3.OMFG. WHY?!THIS IS PURE TORTURE.I HATE CLIFFHANGERS.
Not your heart, because it’s a people pleaser, and not your brain, because it relies too heavily on logic."Since the very beginning I couldn’t really connect with the story at all, the first part was a complete mess and nonsense, the second part was slightly better since it seemed that the authors did knew what they were doing this time and now part three didn’t have that much content and a lot of things that seemed important were left a side because of the ending.
I was not satisfied with that ending, especially with the epilogue, I think it was rubbish the fact that it was now happening to their kids ¿??“Adults like to pretend that our feelings aren’t as big and important as theirs—that we’re too young to really know what we want.
In terms of reviewing this novella, hell this series, I’m stumped.
The mystery element is a huge part of the pull, so I don't want to spoil the fun.
The memory loss and the suspense surrounding Silas and Charlie's current circumstances certainly kept me invested.
I wanted to figure that shit out just as bad as they did.
But the answers were always just out of reach.Now that I’ve reached the conclusion, I can see how some readers might be disappointed, high expectations and all (especially with those cliffs).
I enjoyed the characters, especially Silas.
Overall, it was a quick, entertaining little ya series.
What a cheesy, super cliché resolution. Seriously?After all those build-ups.And mysteries.Really?Spare me.Meh.That thing called punyeta.Never again. As in, never!Never Never.
3 “What the hell?” Stars.
This is the much awaited third and final book of the Never Never trilogy, where we finally get to know what happened with Silas and Charlie to make them forget everything.
And let me tell you my no spoilers version of this book: IT MADE NO SENSE AT ALL.
First I was like this: Then I was like this: In the end I was more or less like this: I’m giving it three stars for Silas, for some really sweet moments and for how they ended.
The rest?
The rest, I’m sad to say, was d
First I was like this: Then I was like this: In the end I was more or less like this: I’m giving it three stars for Silas, for some really sweet moments and for how they ended.
What a got was a stupid excuse involving (view spoiler)[ fate  (hide spoiler)] and a ridiculous confusing epilogue.
Steam:  Meh. Sensible Subjects:  (view spoiler)[ I DON’T KNOW!!
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[ No.
(hide spoiler)]HEA: 	(view spoiler)[ Yes. But with a pretty weird epilogue where I’m choosing to believe that Silas is just really bad with dates.
Dear Colleen and Tarryn,I am disappointed with this book.
I waited a year for this part to come out and all the excitement dissipated about 50% into reading when I realized that it was starting to spout bullshit.
There was no deep mystery and no "OMG I DID NOT SEE THAT COMING THAT'S FCKN GOOD *mindblown*".
Part 3 can be simply called CLICHE.
The idea was so good in the beginning.
And then I had to read this crapload waste of money they called Part 3.
The big mystery wasn't that big.
I don't think I'll be looking at these books with fondness.
I'd give the series between 3 and 4 stars.
I always have high expectations with both of these authors, and this just fell a little flat for me.
I think a large part of it was reading book 1 ages ago, then reading book 2 and 3 together.
If these were combined into a standalone novel, I would probably enjoy the reading of it and be less critical.
Instead, it felt a little slow-moving and repetitive at times.
And I really didn't care for the epilogue.
It left an unrealistic taste in my mouth.
They are both still a go-to author for me.
I was going to write a review, but why bother?
They should have called this novella series Freaky Friday: Amnesia EditionFate is the magnetic pull of our souls toward the people, places, and things we belong with.I blew through this super fast as it is only about 100 pages.
The first half of this book had me totally hooked, it seemed we were getting closer to finding out why this is happening to Silas and Charlie.
Not your heart, because it’s a people pleaser, and not your brain, because it relies too heavily on logic.After I got past that and focused on the love story, it wasn't a complete bust.
Charlie and Silas' relationship is so sweet and I just love everything about them.
"'What’s the one thing you’re the most scared of forgetting?' he asks.I open my eyes. 'You.'"   "These novellas are too short.""They're trying to rob us of our money.""These books cost too much for 100 something pages.""Another one?""Was this really necessary?"BLAH.BLAH.BLAH.BLAH.BLAH.Of course it's not the best story out there or the most original but sometimes as a reader, you just gotta  stop complaining, stop thinking too much, and just enjoy the ride.  As reviewers, I think we just get so
"These novellas are too short.""They're trying to rob us of our money.""These books cost too much for 100 something pages.""Another one?""Was this really necessary?"BLAH.BLAH.BLAH.BLAH.BLAH.Of course it's not the best story out there or the most original but sometimes as a reader, you just gotta 
And I think that the Never Never novellas is one of those many cases.I doubt this story was meant to be taken as seriously as some readers have taken it.
This is the plot :This is me while reading this nonsense :This is me while reading the cheesy parts :My only hope now is that Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher will NEVER NEVER write together ever again.
I don't even know how to rate this properly.... what the hell??!!
It wasn't worth the investment of the serial if it was just going to end up like that - lots of plot holes, dropped story threads, and a very disappointing and childish resolution.Full review:*sighs* Okay, I'll level with you guys, this book was not good.
It's like those things never happened and it gets shrugged off just for the sake of furthering Silas and Charlie's pre-destined romance, which is hammered and forced upon the reader in so many turns.I've said this before when talking about some of the stories that I've read from Colleen Hoover before: it feels fake.

Anywhere from wanting the couple to have their HEA to having their story end in that spectacular way.
Silas and Charlie have been losing their memory every forty-eight hours so they've been writing things down and leaving themselves notes everywhere trying to move forward each time.
Meaning....definitely NOT a Tarryn Fisher ending.
I think it would have read better as one story than broken up into novellas although I understand why they had to release it that way (publishing contracts and all that).
Because I don’t want to forget you all over again.
I never want to forget a single second with you.”
No.(Yes, that is a complete review)
Just like most readers, I am disappointed.I didn't like the explanation at all.
Why create so much mystery to not answer any questions?
(view spoiler)[For instance, why was Silas' bed bloody that night?
I shipped them, but they were too fluffy and cutesy and that's not something I enjoy reading.
I know I was going to be disappointed, but I tried to keep an open mind at first.
But everything was too convenient, and not enough questions were answered.But the main thing I disliked about the series?
For instance when Silas says: "just like in the hotel this morning.".
4 It's about LOVE STARS   "We migth lose our memories again, but we're still the same on the inside. Somewhere deep down, we want to do good. Be good. Deep down we love each other." Excelente final. No tan épico como creí pero si fue perfecto.Disfrute mucho este libro y me mantuvo enganchada todo el rato, pero aun así no tuve esa ansiedad que me causaron los libros anteriores. Todo ese suspenso he intriga que tanto ame en el primer libro, aqui fue quedando en segundo plano. Entre tantos caminos
Somewhere deep down, we want to do good.
Deep down we love each other."
(hide spoiler)]Fue genial reencontrarme con Charlie y Silas, especialmente porque me encontraba perdida al igual que ellos, valió la pena la espera para poder conocer la verdad y ver su historia de amor completa.
(hide spoiler)]De el epilogo no se que decir, creo que fue lo que mas me gusto de todo.
Se que la mayoría odia los cliffhangers, pero a mi me encantan y en este caso creo que fue exactamente esos finales de shock y la espera lo que hizo tan especial esta trilogía.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
