https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6332.Dirty_Beasts
Rowie, to whom I read this book yesterday, would like other four-year-olds to know that it has a flying cow who poos on someone's head. You can see a picture and everything.
I am currently trying to read all of Roald Dahl's books and re-read a lot of them.This book was about multiple different "creatures," which were real animals with twists."Stingaling the scorpion to Crocky-Wock the crocodile, Dahl's animals are nothing short of ridiculous. A clever pig with an unmentionable plan to save his own bacon and an anteater with an unusually large appetite are among the characters created by Dahl in these timeless rhymes."This was a short, fast read that I was really entertained by. They were multiple short stories combined to make a book.
An emaciated anteater that will eat your favorite aunt; a carnivorous crocodile that, if given the s
Sweet, charming and extremely entertaining.Audiobook CommentsMiriam Margolyes, Stephen Mangan and Tamsin Greig read this one - and they made it a super fun listen.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Много се натъжих.
Дори не съм ядосана или нещо такова - по-активно като отношение.
Не е честно в страната на Валери Петров, Мая Дългъчева, Виктор Самуилов...
да има толкова нескопосани преводи на детски стихотворения.
И то на Роалд Дал.
Писна ми да "учим" децата, че римата е това, което прави стихотворението стихотворение.
Ами, не е.
Музиката е.
Крайно време е да стане ясно, че римата без ритъм е като лупа,надвиснала точно над уликата - тя прави дефектите десетократно по-видими, тя осветлява липсата на хармония и мелодия с огромен прожектор.
За всички бе пределно ясно,че мозък голям е Прасчо.
This book contains some of Roald Dahl's best and funniest poems.My daughter had to hide under the covers when I read about children being eaten by lions, alligators and ant-eaters. So she has only given this book 4 stars as it was scary.
i never thought i'd read two poetry books in one day
read by Pam Ferris and Geoffrey PalmerIs this the chidren's poetic version of Torgny Lindgren? The Tummy Beast = 2 thumbs up
A good book, but I felt it was missing that special something Dahl's books typically have. Having the pictures would have quite possibly added to it. My favourite poem was the last one.
When I was young, I used to read all of Roald Dahl's stories.
But another one of my favorite stories from the Roald Dahl collection is Dirty Beasts.
With Roald Dahl's master storytelling and Quentin Blake's surreal drawings combined, they make Dirty Beasts a funny and scary book at the same time.Overall, this book is extremely interesting to read because the action of the book is fast-paced and the mysterious antics of the animals will keep the children entertained.
Dirty Beasts also provide good morals to each story, even though each moral is a bit mixed.
To start of my reading challenge, let's begin with something delightful and fun. Story was lovely, a collection of poems (verses) involving dirty beasts, naughty and bad beasts for me. I had fun reading them, i love the story of the porcupine and the toad and the snail. Roald Dahl never fails to amaze the kid in me.
Saving it for my children!
Een boek wat op rijm is geschreven. Aan het begin was dit even wennen. Halverwege het boek begon ik de titel van het boek te begrijpen. Het gaat over verschillende beesten die avonturen beleven.Dit is een boek wat je wel kan voorlezen, maar vind het taalgebruik niet altijd geschikt voor de onderbouw.
Maravilloso
It reminds me greatly of a Grimm's fairytale or an Aesop's Fable: a bit harsh, a bit shocking, quite a bit scary, an important lesson to learn, but with Dirty Beasts we also get more than a bit funny!
There's an anteater who after being severely neglected by a greedy and selfish child finally gets to eat and well, there's some confusion over the words ant and aunt.
Overall Dirty Beasts is a truly fun little book.
Saya nggak begitu suka cerita yang ini.
Semuanya bertemakan hewan-hewan aneh bin ajaib dengan kelakuan yang juga nggak kalah ajaibnya.
Kalau ada yang saya suka, mungkin cerita tentang seorang anak gendut yang doyan makan, dan dia bilang sama ibunya kalo ada makhluk di dalam perutnya yang terus minta dikasih makan.
Ibunya nggak percaya sama si anak, dan menganggap anaknya itu pembohong.
Nggak sering, justru anak-anak ini jujur, loh.
Orang dewasa aja yang nggak membuka hati mereka untuk memahami anak-anak ini.
Banyak adegan yang kalo saya orang tua, nggak pengen saya ceritain ke anak saya.
The verse includes some rather eye-opening concepts that are probably more appropriate for an older child who can appreciate the wit.Irreverant and often mischievous, the poems are a startling, but refreshing change from the typical children's poetry book fare.
A few of them were familiar to us, likely because we recently read Vile Verses, and some of the poems were included in that book, too.
Still, Rosemary Fawcett does a good job of adding a humorous tone to the illustrations.We took our time reading the poems.
Dahl's inimitable style and humor shine in this collection of poems about mischievous and mysterious animals.
From Stingaling the scorpion to Crocky-Wock the crocodile, Dahl's animals are nothing short of ridiculous.
Among them is a clever pig with an unmentionable plan to save his own bacon (upon realization that that's the meaning of his life), a flying cow, a giant toad who can jump from England into France and an anteater with an unusually large appetite.
A classic piece of Dahl lunacy.
Whether you are 5 or 50 years of age this Dahl classic will have you squirming and tittering.
Quentin Blake's wonderful illustrations capture Dahl's beasts and bring them hairily to life.
3.5*More funny subversive verse from Dahl where animals often get the better of their human masters. My favorite is where an existential pig ponders his purpose. "The pig"“The butcher’s shop! The carving knife!That is the reason for my life!”Another favorite is this animal tale where the four-legged creature one-ups the upright folk. "The ant-eater"Some wealthy folks from U.S.A., Who lived near San Francisco Bay, Possessed an only child called Roy, A plump and unattractive boy –Half-baked, half-witted and half-boiled, But worst of all, most dreadfully spoiled.
Are you into a gory storyOf dirty beasts that won't make you worryAs it turns out to be some kind of animationOf the author's never ending imaginationFirst the story of a pigWhose brain is sort of bigHe dreams of doing great thingBut end up eating the owner without a winkCome next Crocky Wock the crocodileThat puts boys and girls on his food pileThis bed time story will give you nightmareAs the Crocky Wock Crocodile show up to stareComplete review in http://justaveragereader.blogspot.co....
I instantly recognised the illustrations and re-reading this collection of poems really brough back some memories. Written by Roald Dahl and illustrated by Quentin Blake, Dirty Beasts is a selection of poems on a variety of unpleasant creatures including a pig, cow, ant-eater, toad, lion, scorpion, crocodile and a porcupine. The poems rhyme, vary from 2-4 pages long and are supported by vibarnt pictures. It would be useful resource if covering any topic related to animals, or the very last poem "The Toad and the Snail" can very easily be incorporated into a French topic.
Als kind heb ik alle boeken van Roald Dahl verslonden. Ik vond ze geweldig, vol fantasie. Heerlijk om bij weg te dromen. Deze gedichten zijn allemaal een beetje gek en daardoor zo leuk. Juist, omdat je aanvoelt, dat het niet echt kan, is het zo leuk om erbij te griezelen. Roald Dahl heeft zo'n eigen stijl en zijn boeken zijn tijdloos, blijven leuk. Heerlijk om na zoveel jaren nog eens te lezen.(10e boek Boekenbingo 2017)
Gross. Scary. A little bit funny in spots.The Crocodile was especially disturbing. It would give some children nightmares I am sure.In three of the stories the humans are eaten by the animals. That is frightening.Parents, make sure you read this before reading it to your children.Some children might like this book.Dahl has a strange sense of humor.Sometimes it seems he likes animals better than people.
A short books of mostly animal rhymes, with a couple designed to be interactive. I'll probably consult this one when I have my own kids, but it's not something I plan to come back to. The rhymes are funny, but is definitely for younger readers.
Most people tell me I'm morbid but that's only because I've grown up reading the delightfully dark books by Roald Dahl. The collection of poems that is Dirty Beast is not just for kids. If you haven't read it do so now.
Irreverant poetry aimed at children but fun for adults alike! My favourites being 'The Pig' and 'the Tummy Beast'. Wonderfully illustrated by the fabulous Quentin Blake.
On a Roald Dahl reading spree and loving it
The pig was so smart, that when he began to wonder what his fate was, he realized he was to be eaten.
But when a crowd had gathered, she heard a man from Afghanistan speak poorly of her, so she dropped a cow pie on his head.
I would use this in the classroom by asking the students to make up a poem about an animal that ends badly like these poems.While these poems were quirky and funny, I was really saddened by the poem about the cow.
Dahl's representation of the man from Afghanistan was insensitive and a bit racist.
I read this as a kid of course, but I reread it as I dug it up while doing some minor cleaning this morning...
I have no idea how much this has affected me but I'm sure my own twisted sensibilities come from the likes of this, which is a short but grisly series of poem-vignettes about animals who may/may not have existential dilemmas and in nearly all cases eat the humans who are either going to eat them or are just nearby.
If Roald Dahl is the Alan Moore of children's books, a questionable Brit who subverts all our expectations, then Blake is Dave Gibbons.
kids stuff lol
Read as part of the Goodreads Summer Reading Challenge.
These poems are fun and easy to read, clearly meant to excite a child's imagination with their graphic, and sometimes gross, descriptions.Some of the poems are a little dated these days, with several things that I'm not sure would pass as politically correct, but it's all harmless fun and very amusing to read.My favourite poem is, without a doubt, The Ant-Eater.
It has everything a kid could want!The illustrations by Quentin Blake are perfect, as always.
One of the greatest, and best known, illustrators of all time.
