https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8953.Freak_the_Mighty
Freak the Mighty is a tear jerking story about two total opposites that become best friends.
The 2 main characters, Max and Kevin a.k.a Freak the Mighty lead amazing unpredictable lives, they went on quests and fought dragons.
The book is very good, the action really ramps up toward the end leading to a sad but satisfying ending.
The ending is satisfying because once you've finished the book you immediately realize that you have just read something that you will always remember as one of the best books you've read in your life.
This book taught me that I must value my friends and live life to the fullest I love this story.
You can think your way out of everything, even pain."“...remembering is a great invention of the mind, and if you try hard enough you can remember anything, whether it really happened or not.” “You don't need a time machine if you know how to remember.”"...I also read tons of books so I can figure out what's true and what's fake, which isn't always easy.
Books are like truth serum--if you don't read, you can't figure out what's real.” "Life is dangerous" ....The characterization in this novel is impeccabble and brilliant...the thematic content is deep and rich, the plot intriguing...foreshadowing and flashback are abundant but not overbearing,philbrick's diction is perfectly in tune with the characters.The book can serve a biblio-therapeutic role too.
When one of my students looks me in the eye and tells me that I HAVE TO READ THIS BOOK. You read that book. So glad I did.
By then I’m sneaking along the street to see what’s going on, and there’s this weird-looking little dude, he’s got a normal-sized head, but the rest of him is shorter than a yardstick and kind of twisted in a way that means he can’t stand up straight and makes his chest puff out, and he’s waving his crutches around and yelling up at the movers....I go, “I thought there weren’t any real robots.
The experience of reading this book with kids was priceless.
”Books are like truth serum — if you don’t read, you can’t figure out what’s real.”
This is a fun book, and the kids love it (I teach junior high and cover this book every year).
It's the story of an unlikely friendship between a very small boy with health problems and a short life span, and a very large boy whose childhood has been pretty rough.
There is a little bit of language that might deter some teachers, but I've found that the kids can get past it for the story.
I highly recommend this book for the junior high age kid.
it is sad what happens at the end, but the entire story line between the two main characters Freak, and Mighty was just complexing.both are attracted to each other because one is big without so much of a mind, the other is small but with a large mind.Freak known as KEVIN in the story is a boy with a birth defect.
freak the mighty based their tales on the oledn tales of King ARTHUR and his knight of round ables doing deeds for everyone else and protecting those in danger.as i too, enjoy those stories becassue they were quite fascinating and yet to say the least, worth my time.try this book and see the meaning of true friendship.
My daughter is reading this book in her 7th Grade English class and so I thought I'd check it out myself.
In this story it's school kids, in Of Mice and Men, it's adults, but it's the same premise.
To be honest, I'm a little disappointed that this is what was chosen though, because I think Of Mice and Men holds more literary value, and that's what I read in 7th Grade.
For an English class, I don't think it's a fantastic choice, but as a general read, this is a good book and a fast read, so I would still recommend it.
"Freak the Mighty" is a fantastic book that follows the stories of two boys, Max and Kevin.
Each boy has their own disability, but their disabilities are what makes each character special and unique.
The story builds using suspense and foreshadowing, which engages the reader, and every character is brought to life through characterization of unique qualities and dialogue.
I won't spoil the end for you, but many consider the story tragic, but the lesson learned from the book is one that we can all or will relate to as we grow older and experience life.
This is a lovely, offbeat book about the unlikely friendship between two boys who seem to share nothing in common.
Max is very big for his age, and thinks he isn't very smart, while Kevin has a birth defect that causes him to stay very small.
The two team up, Max carrying Kevin on his shoulders, and become Freak the Mighty, going on quests to assist those in need and living life to its fullest in every adventure.
Through Max we experience all over again the agony of being young and different, and the joy of finding a kindred spirit.
This book was a fantastic read!
As a special education teacher I struggled listening to parts of this book. The language used in this book is inappropriate. Also, they make having a learning disability sound like a bad thing. The book made it seem like your really stupid if you have one. And that is not true. The book did have some exciting and interesting points in it. A lot of it was unrealistic, especially with the father, but it kept the story interesting.
I didn't really enjoy this one it just wasn't interesting or was it something I would usually read ( it was required reading). I enjoyed some parts of this book but thought other parts were quite boring. Overall rating 2.5 stars. Just wasn't really my thing!
I think the book is good and sad.
Its about this guy named Max who is tall.
People make fun of him becaus they say that he has no bran.
Like he need a class to help him to read.
Then he met Freak in that class becaus he had to help him.
Freak told Max that he had to read this book but then Max said that he can't read so then Freak reads it for him.
Then the next day freak asked Max if he can take him to this place and says that he will pay him if he takes him.
Second Read - June 4, 2018 - June 20, 20184 StarsI read this with my grade six class. They were emotional near the end. They highly recommended that I read this with next years class. First Read - year 20004 StarsI enjoyed this book when I was in grade six.
Short, sweet and heartbreaking.
Jona's rating = 3Joslyn's rating = 3❤ Gotta love it when your 13 year old says, "It just didn't challenge me much but it was a decent book."
Jona's rating = 3Joslyn's rating = 3❤️ Gotta love it when your 13 year old says, "It just didn't challenge me much but it was a decent book."
Freak the mighty is a very touching story of unlikely friendships in which a kid Kevin who is super smart, adventurous, and kind meets kind of the opposite of that in his friend Maxwell Kane who is tall, clumsy, and "stupid." These two kids go on many journeys making you get closer to the both of them in a roller coaster of a book full of ups, downs, and emotions.
Freak the Mighty Freak the Mighty is about a friendship between two boys who are both slow in their own way. Freak also known as Kevin is highly intelligent, but small and crippled. Max/Mighty is very tall and large but has special needs. Together they help one another conquer difficulties that arise. Max needs academic support, and Kevin needs height and feet. Kevin tutors Max and in exchange Max takes freak to places he could never go himself; both of their worlds open up for them because now
Kevin tutors Max and in exchange Max takes freak to places he could never go himself; both of their worlds open up for them because now they have it all.
Together they are a team which they call themselves Freak the Mighty.
Throughout reading this book I made a text-to-world connection.
Many people are attracted to others who can help them and vise versa.
People want an equal relationship and that is exactly what Kevin and Max had.
If you liked Freak the Mighty check out other books from Rodman Philbrick.
I really liked this book because I could really picture everything that was happening!
If you’re looking for a book to read, read one of the most amazing books I have ever read, Freak the Mighty. I would recommend it to anyone who loves a powerful friendship like Freak and Max’s. I would give it 5 out of 5 stars for Freak and Max’s friendship, their different personalities, and the very sad ending. Freak and Max’s friendship was like no one else’s. The two of them became very close friends in the beginning of eighth grade, like Max mentioned, “I never had a brain until Freak came
I would give it 5 out of 5 stars for Freak and Max’s friendship, their different personalities, and the very sad ending.
The two of them became very close friends in the beginning of eighth grade, like Max mentioned, “I never had a brain until Freak came along,” The two of them as Freak the Mighty were unstoppable, and no one could have a friendship like theirs and it made the book so much more fascinating while reading.
The ending really made Freak the Mighty such a powerful story about two different kids and their friendship.
I would recomend this book to people, but I wouldnt read it again.I just didnt like it, its not my type of book.
Although some people may consider this book a mystery, I could tell what was going to happen next.
Like some of the characters just didn't fit, the people who wrote Freak the Mighty could have have better or more interresting things happen to them.
This book is not in any way, my type of book, but I would recomend it to others because I could be the only one who feels it isn't a mystery.
This book was ok. It was an interesting story for the most part. I wanted to like it more than I actually did though. I feel it was kinda rushed in places and was a tad violent for a children's book. The main character Max broke my heart. So much suffering for someone so young.
Only Kevin, aka Freak, isn't afraid of Max. With Max's big body and Freak's big brain, they become more powerful combined, and take on the town bully and other quests.This was an inspiring story which really benefited from Max's perspective.
I had a feeling the story would end the way it did, but it still felt like a happy ending because of how much Max grows from his friendship with Freak.
Most of the kids in my book club already read this for school, and all of them said they really enjoyed it.
It is short and fairly easy reading, with vocabulary words worked in nicely.
I also enjoyed the dictionary Freak made for Max at the end.
This was a good book.
It told a story about a weak boy named Kevin and a mighty boy named Max. In the book when they were together they mostly went by freak the mighty.
The story is told by Max's point of view as you will find out.
Kevin was a small 12 year old boy who was very weak and was not expected to live a very long life.
Max lives with his grandparents and Freak lives with his mom.
On Freak's 13th birthday something terrible happens.
Will it effect the lives of more than one?
Read the book to find out.
Our class just finished reading Freak the Mighty by Rodman Philbrick.
This is a story about an unlikely friendship between two boys who have issues to deal with.
They help each other develop socially, emotionally, and mentally.
Max goes on an introspective journey led by his new friend, Kevin.
After dealing with past issues, Max becomes more confident and secure.
One of the themes is that we should give others a chance before we judge them.
My students empathize and become emotionally attached to Max and his journey to believe in himself.
♥Freak The Mighty is a fantastic book, besides the ending that was kid of depressing. but anyway the minute I set my eyes on the first paragraph I was like addicted to it. Anyhow, a small and very smart eighth grader named Freak (Kevin) and a rather big and not so smart eighth grader named Max (Mighty)didnt have any friends until Freak moved in the block next door to Mighty and then they both became friends. Together Freak and Mighty go on many journeys (as Freak says) and become Frweak The Mighty♥
Great story, I liked the movie too.
I can't believe it took me this long to read this little title. It's excellent! Themes about friendship, family, bullies, physical health challenges, education, . . . full of middle school issues. This book will appeal to all levels of readers and students, and its short length won't intimidate slow or reluctant readers. Meaningful life lessons told in a fun, memorable book where life's not perfect and unlikely friends tackle it together
When you ever lose someone that you loved don’t you feel like if part of you is gonna? Do you ever feel as a person that life is hard? If you think your life is hard well you should read Freak the Mighty, written by Rodman Philbrick. This novel is fiction. The story may sometimes make you feel sad or happy because of the events of the story. In this novel you will meet a boy named Max who gets bullied in school for looking like his dad and being tall and has no friends. You will also meet Freak
In this novel you will meet a boy named Max who gets bullied in school for looking like his dad and being tall and has no friends.
For 4th of July him and his gang start to bother Freak and Max with a knife but it was hard to run because Freak was on the shoulders of Max. But Max feels like if he has a brain while Freak is on top of him because Freak is telling him where to go so they can get away from Tony D.
The beginning and end is sad because Max gets bullied for being tall and looking like his dad and Freak also gets bullied for having disabilities.
Which was really sad for Max. I can relate to Freak because he likes to say weird things like "O mighty beast".
I think this because I liked how the author included 2 different boys who at the end of he story are really close friends.
I liked when the author gave specific things when Max and Freak walked into the building.
He's been raised by his maternal grandparents, who are afraid he'll turn out like his father since he looks just like him.) Both boys are fatherless, since Kevin's father left when it became obvious he was different.
I can see how it would be a very powerful book for the intended reading level.
*Kevin says they're 9 feet tall combined.
Max never says how tall he actually is, but he constantly tells us that he's bigger than everyone else.
In Kevin's dictionary, he says he's 70 cm tall and Max is 190 cm tall, which would make him about 6'3".
Read for Book Group, February 2014.
