https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123562.Catlow
I picked up "Catlow" because it's the basis for a horse opera of the same title, staring the interesting cinematic bouillabaisse of Yul Brynner, Richard Crenna and Leonard Nemoy.I do continue to admire Louis L'Amour, and his amazing ability to churn out literally hundreds of fresh stories without giving the reader feelings of deja vu.
The plot keeps moving, we have plenty of action, and the efforts of Cowan and Catlow are practical and authentic.(The movie was made in 1971, and stars Yul Brynner as Catlow, Richard Crenna as Cowan, and Leonard Nimoy as Miller the hit man.
One of the huge number of "Westerns" written by L'Amour.
It contains all of the elements you expect of the genre: bad guys with a heart of gold, lawmen who aren't entirely sure that the law is the best way to achieve justice, cowboys, Indians, gunfights and desserts.
But as usual, L'Amour uses these stereotypical elements of the genre to tell a deeper story.At its core, Catlow is about honor and friendship.
Ben is an old acquaintance, friend, but also the US Marshal responsible for enforcing the law and arresting the criminals, of which Catlow is the most notorious.When the Marshal learns that Catlow has planned one last, huge, crime before he retires, he feels bound to stop him, or capture him.
Ben and Abijah (Catlow) are the friends we all hope to have and be to someone else.
When Ben becomes a U.S. Marshal, of course he is going to have to track his old friend down someday.
Even more incredible is the description of the desert and its people that make you want to be there, even as it begins killing Catlow's men and nearly Ben as well.This is a definite must read for anyone who enjoys a good book, and not just fans of L'Amour or westerns in general.
Then keep it on your shelf so your friends and family can read it too.
This one I liked. It made me cry, and strangely, not for the poor mules. I like the hero-rascal contrast. I like the simple storytelling without too much emphasis on romance (which I'm not sure L'Amour does very well anyway), and I like the happy ending. I also like the references to characters in other books, but I generally like it when that happens.
"In New Mexico," Rosita said gently, "I have a cousin, whose name was Drusilla Alvarado. She married a gringo who wore a badge...she is very happy, senor." The first postcard came a year later, from Malheur County, in Oregon. It said simply: We named the first one Ben. And down Sonora way a boy rides the range whose name is Abijah. Ah, this mans books are absolutely amazing!!
L’Amour is a very good story teller. First time I read a western. It’s always interesting to read a book where the characters don’t have cellphones, GPS or the Internet. Characters has to solve their problems with skill and luck. Fun.
Roger, Village patron, June 2018, 4 stars:Bijah Catlow (a 'good-guy' outlaw) and Ben Cowman have been friends since childhood. All that is about to change as Cowman tries to stop Catlow from making the worst decision of his life.
Great book
Liked the way it began.
Some westerns are just a more fun read than others.
Like a lot of westerns, there is a "good guy" and a "bad guy". In "Catlow" I found I was rooting for both of them.
His transition to the brand name in Western fiction was well under way when he published Catlow in 1963.The pace at which L'Amour wrote novels -- about three a year from the mid-50s on -- meant that the likelihood of some lesser work slipping in amongst the High Lonesomes and Hondos is pretty high, and Catlow is a good candidate for the list.Abijah "Bijah" Catlow and Ben Cowan grew up together and were close friends, but as they grew older they saw each other less and less.
I’ve decided, with the help of my father, that I need to read more old-school westerns.
The action mostly takes place in Arizona, New Mexico, Texas (Sam Bass even comes up for a mention), and Mexico.The ending isn’t at all what I expected, and L’Amour has a way with words that astounds me: despite all the books he’s written, I haven’t seen him become repetitive in the ones I’ve read so far.
He does, however, put mentions of characters from other books in occasionally to entice you to read more.
Lean, rough and exciting, Catlow is a burn-through read, with L'Amour's love of the action loaded Old West, briefly stated cowboy philosophy and worth-liking-or-loathing characters at the forefront.L'Amour upped the pleasure ante by indirectly linking Catlow to some of his other works: his multibook series The Sacketts and another novel, The Daybreakers (one of Catlow's secondary characters, Rosita Calderon, is cousin to Daybreakers's Druscilla Alvarado).Excellent, amiable genre novel, this, from one of my favorite Western authors - one worth owning.#Released in stateside theaters on October 1, 1971, the film version was directed by Sam Wanaker, from a screenplay by Scott Finch and James Griffith (billed as J.J. Griffith).Yul Brunner played Catlow.
One is Abijah Catlow, a fun loving, outgoing man who is often either just this side of the law, or in the process of breaking it.
The other is Deputy United States Marshal Ben Cowan, a quiet, honest man who is very sincere in his feelings about maintaining the law, but never overstepping the boundaries.
Both men have a deep respect for the other, and Catlow understands Ben's need to capture him and see that justice is done.
When reading this story, you can see that Louis L'Amour truly understands what he is writing about.
Ο πυρετός του χρυσούΜόλις το πρώτο βιβλίο που διαβάζω από Λουίς Λ'Αμούρ.
Μου φάνηκε πάρα μα πάρα πολύ καλό.
Εξαιρετική γραφή, με καταπληκτικές και κατατοπιστικές περιγραφές των τοπίων, των ανθρώπων, των πόλεων, των συγκρούσεων κλπ.
Δυνατοί και αληθινοί χαρακτήρες, με αρκετά καλή εκβάθυνση, πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία, με ζωέμπορους και ζωοκλέφτες, Μάρσαλ, αστυνομικούς, στρατιώτες, επικίνδυνους Ινδιάνους, όμορφες γυναίκες, καραβάνια με χρυσάφι, επιβίωση στην μεξικάνικη έρημο με κάθε λογής κινδύνους...
Και η ιστορία γενικά ήταν και ευχάριστη, ούτε μονότονη ούτε ιδιαίτερα σκληρή.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο δεν είναι από τα πιο γνωστά βιβλία του Λ'Αμούρ, αλλά όπως και τα υπόλοιπα, έτσι και αυτό, είναι πάρα πολύ καλό.
One of the great things about Louis L'Amour is that his books are the perfect length to read on any trip that has two flight segments each way.
Catlow is a book that is set mostly in Tucson and northern Mexico, and as such is somewhat unique in the L'Amour oeuvre.
It also shows a relationship of mutual respect between the hero and the protagonist, and is also unique in the L'Amour oeuvre in having the protagonist be a sympathetic figure.
For those reasons alone it is worth reading for the L'Amour fan.
L'Amour is often taken to task by critics because of a now unpopular genre and also because his books like many authors are formulary.
Good guy, bad guy, pretty woman, confrontation and you know who is alive on the last page.
After all.........320 million books sold, 100 novels written, 250 short stories, translated into at least ten languages is quite a resume.
In any case, I am now one-third of the way through the novels and will continue to read more as I enjoy a break from more tedious books.
Carlos was born and raised in Tennessee. He met the Tinker during one of his trips through the "Blue Mountains" When he grew up Carlos and the Tinker traveled to Texas where they death in cattle that was in the backwoods without brands. On one trip to Mexico Carlos was placed in prison for many years. He was saved y the Texas Rangers because they raided the wrong place. He returned to the state and he and Tinker took off where they left off. This is an excellent read for the genre.....ER
I liked the book it had allot of action . The setting took place in mexico where there was a lot of hills and sand. Catlow was trying to steal money from the government and Jim was trying to stop him . The sheriff was trying to stop him to but catlow and the sheriff are friends. And in the end there was a shooting so that was pretty cool.
Typical L'Amour with lots of action, flat characters, good descriptions, some allusions to characters in other novels, and a nice touch at the end. Although I had read it before some years back, I could not remember much of it, so it was a fun read.
Abijah Catlow attempts to get rich by stealing the Mexican government's payroll, while Deputy Marshal Ben Cowan tries to stop him. A great western."And I read books. Most young men wish their wives to be beautiful, but complacent--and not too bright, I am afraid."
SM
it was a good book, and it kept me entertained and interested
My first Louis 'Amour novel! It was great and I'm looking forward to reading more in the future.
"He made his brag that he could outfight, outride, outtalk, and outlive any man in the world, and he was prepared to accept challenges, any time or place."
Another great story by Louis. Some of his books tend to blend together for me, but this one stood out on it's own and was great to read.
Enjoyable western.
Good book. I always appreciate the stories where the "bad guy" is portrayed as a person and not just a villain.
I always enjoy reading Louis L'Amour. In this book, he wrote about 19th century Tucson after the Civil War.
