https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4410574-the-case-for-india
Shashi Tharoor mentioning this raised my regard for Durant immediately:In 1930, a young American historian and philosopher, Will Durant, stepped onto the shores of India for the first time.
He had embarked on a journey around the world to write what became the magnificent eleven-volume The Story of Civilization.
But he was, in his own words, so ‘filled with astonishment and indignation’ at what he saw and read of Britain’s ‘conscious and deliberate bleeding of India’ that he set aside his research into the past to write a passionate denunciation of this ‘greatest crime in all history’.
On reading this, I just realized as an Indian how ignorant I and all my generation has been. No history book prescribed by our school system covered the depth of plunder of India, distinguishing the plunder by the British and the plunder by previous conquerors. The reading itself is easy. The major point here is the author does not try to make his own calculations but tries to repeat what some conscious British have already published or printed.
It is a wonderfully written argument by an American author who had seen India first hand and studied deeply about the country.
I believe this book should be a part of curriculum in all schools at the collegiate level.
I have not read a better document that is more comprehensive, cogent, objective argument in favour of India.
I salute the courage of this author and his noble spirit to not just make a case, but publish a book that supports a country that was yet to be born and was almost 2 decades away from gaining Independence.
Mr. Durant explains in his book that England has bled India year after year to the point of death.
Since then, during almost 200 years of British rule, millions of people died every year from famine.
They argued that India needed British protection otherwise France, Spain or Portugal would attack and occupy India.
During British occupation it was frequently argued that Indians are not capable of ruling themselves.
Lastly, Indians were considered incompetent by Britain and other western countries.
In its ten thousand years of history, India has never behaved like this with any nation.
An excellent book whose narration was the most beautiful I have ever witnessed.
In this book he presented what changes India went through during British rule.
He has put forward from a neutral mindset, that what effects were witnessed during that rule.
I would suggest at least every Indian to read the book to know from both points of view what happened to India and why?What I liked the most in the book is it does not decide whether the British rule in India was good or bad.
It presents the events as it happened.
Looking forward to read other books by Will Durant.
It is excellent that this important yet forgotten book has been brought back into print.
I cannot escape the sense of anger against the British Empire that this book has given birth to with in me.
To date, I had looked upon the freedom movement through the haze of romanticism, Will Durant has put the extent of British terrorism and greed into perspective.
No Indian must forget the injustices he has suffered at the hands of the Raj and must forever be grateful to the men and women who shed their cynicism and gave us our freedom.
Every now and then, one comes across some people who try to say that the British rule was very helpful to India. This book dispels this view. Written in 1930, it presents a very good view of the British rule in India. The chapter dealing with Gandhi is good as one rarely comes across a realistic depiction of the failings of 'The Mahatma' in Indian books.
All Indian's should read this book to know truth about:- How was India before British rule.- How Britisher's treated Indians.- How Britisher's looted Indians and killed Indian's body & mind.- And many more details!
an unbiased view of how India became impoverished under the british
I concede I am biased towards Will Durant; but that ought not to take away from the inscient and impavid candour of the Truth which lays bare naked the very edifice of Empire.
For though the Peoples have discredited Empire, albeit historians of certain shades surreptitiously strive to concoct digestible raison d'êtres, our Generation should do well to read this 'Case'.
Mr Durant spoke the Truth not in retrospective convenience; for then he was conveniently dead.
He spoke the Truth at the height of the British Empire.
They banned his book throughout the Empire, which comprehended a quarter of the Globe.
I want this book.
The book describes in graphic detail the atrocities of the so-called "civilized" Britishers (refer definition below!!!!!) in the chapter "The rape of a continent".
The difference is that he has quoted numbers and figures; unassailable facts and laws that graphically illustrate the systematic destruction of all kinds of local enterprise.
For example, produce was taxed at 50%; the documented fact that tax rates rates were the highest in India across the world; Sample this:"The fundamental principle of the british has been to make the whole indian nation subservient...
These figures tell the tale"The book is littered with such graphic details - all taken from western, and primarily british sources.
A rich and objective perspective on the life, times and opinions of varied stakeholders of British ruled India.
There are little factoids embedded in the book; which I was not aware of, despite being an avid reader; and born and studied in India.
The book is unique, in that it gives a perspective of what the Britishers thought of India; and their contributions to India; with a counter perspective on the same from the Indian freedom fighters.
His perspective of Mahatma Gandhi's belief, contribution and opinion of 'Free India' is also quite unique and objective.
Indian History has too often been swept under the strokes of uncontrolled nationalism, painting normal men as Mahatmas and questionable policy makers as pandits.
However, in this book, written in 1930, Will Durant provides a rivetting history of India which tells us exactly what we want to know.
The book makes a case for India and HOW!
Even to those of us who knew about Indian History, it is very different reading about how events were percieved as they happened as opposed to later, after being eroded by time.
P.S- General Dyer was the biggest asshole that ever lived.If you thought he was bad before, read the book.
One of the most detailed accounts of British India by a foreign author, untouched by the arrogance of racism. Will Durant gives a thorough exposition of the loot of our country and the designs to have her enslaved by the British for very many centuries. No doubt this was banned by the British Parliament, for it would bring an Englishman, proud of his country's authority, face to face with the evil that it has bred all along.
Must read for anyone that doesn't know the British's effect on our country.
This book captures in short detail about Gandhi and his method on achieving Independence through non-violence and development of India through development of village economy.
But it also made me think that it was our Non-violence principle and acceptance of diversity that saved the country from breaking into 500 minor countries lest India would have been another Europe.
Therefore, to a point this book did made me think that our own independence movement did prove out to the world about effectiveness of moral principles.
The first, is that it is a rare book where a Western author has presented the case for India so very compellingly.
The fact that many Indian institutions were destroyed by the British (including the education system) is well presented.
The case of the famines that the British caused by diverting grain from India is again documented.
The fact that the Industrial Revolution was built on Indian money, while destroying India's economy is again well argued.
He writes well, and has attempted to see the argument from both, the British, and the Indian perspective.
Sadly, the British perspective only serves to present them in a more unfavourable light.
"Certainly it was a remarkable, if not a magnanimous achievement, to steal in forty years a quarter of a million square miles, and make the victims pay every penny of the expense.""What nobility can there be in a civilization that moves so naturally to murder and suicide, to diplomatic lies and invented atrocities, to universal conscription and a prostituted press, to gigantic national debts, and another war as soon as a new generation of simpletons grows up to believe new lies, not remembering the old."
A good read to know how imperialism dismantled India & its economy
