https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1099388.The_History_of_Manners
Along with this, a new affective regime came into play, giving far more importance to feelings of being "sensitive", "embarrassed" and "ashamed".In terms of the positive, i want to say that i really enjoyed this book, and am in fact surprised that it has not been checked out more by those rads into things like anti-civ and primitivism, as Elias's framework integrates personal habits with political structures and with the rise of the very concept of "civilization", in a convincing (if incomplete) manner.
Myslíte, že tradice je něco neměnného, dobré mravy vždy znamenaly to samé a že ve středověku byli lidé čuňata jen proto, že ještě nevěděli o bacilech?
Elias se ukazuje, jak se proměny během staletí toho, co je vhodné, promítaly do výchovy a jak se zniterňovaly až nakonec přirozené a dříve běžné projevy začaly vyvolávat pocit studu, trapnosti, že se náhle musíte oklepat, a nelibosti (oproti dřívějšímu vzrušení).
A rozhodně nás ještě čeká hodně změn.
Westerners of Elias' day are prone to see non-Westerners are "childlike," because, like Western children, they haven't internalized the incredibly historically specific and weird sets of habits that Western adults have (though of course the reverse also applies to some extent, since every culture has their own taboos - though Western ones have gotten much stricter in the course of a few centuries.)It might be because I'm fresh after reading Angela Nagle's "Kill All Normies," but all of this seems more relevant to the online culture wars than it should be.
On one hand, those in precarious employment, especially but certainly not exclusively in the humanities, are subjected to extremely intense social control, which cannot help but become internalized; this involves a lot of signaling of middle class status and adherence to the kinds of norms that are functional in a highly cosmopolitan society.
A rich and heuristic account of changes, both in personality and social structures, among the French and German from the Middle Ages through the Renaissance and into the late 18th century, of modes of existence in terms of 'culture' and 'civilization'.
In general, though, 'affect control' increased and internalised, and the 'threshold of repugnance' or 'fastidiousness' went up.
Elias must be right that few of these developments had to do with increases in scientific understanding of hygiene; you don't dip your fingers in common bowls now because it is un-hygienic; you do it because it's perceived as uncivilized; the hygienic response is a kind of rationalisation.
"Each new generation born is in effect an invasion of civilization by little barbarians, who must be civilized before it is too late." - Thomas SowellChapter 3 of The Better Angels of Our Nature, which heavily referenced this book, piqued my interest. However, unless you are writing a sociology paper, or want a very detailed analysis of Renaissance era primary sources, you are better served by having Steven Pinker summarize Norbert Elias' major ideas and findings instead. Or, better yet, read the opening chapters of A Renegade History of the United States.
First part of the book was quite boring and sometimes hard to understand (there were lots of quotes in German and other languages without them being translated to English) but the second half was brilliant. There were so many genious thoughts and I do understand why this is classic in cultural history.
D'ou vient la politesse, les bonnes manières? Ce livre donne des idées sur le sujet. On pourra se référer aussi aux écrits d’Érasme. Amusant.
Stunning. Solid academia. Lucid, cogent, well-measured, well-tempered; and (for a work of nonfiction) really just exquisite in its language and logic. Beautifully executed.
