https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20396.Secrets_of_the_Heart
Secrets of the Heart: Meditations of Kahilil Gibran (Hallmark Editions)by Kahlil Gibran (Author of  The Prophet )Selected and with a Narration by Stanley HendricksIntroduction by Manoocher AryanpurDrawings by Bill GreerExcerpt:"Life is that which we see and experience through the spirit;But the world around us we come to know through understanding and reason."The prose in this little book is deep. I have used it for years; to add a special message to a card, put that special something in a love
)Selected and with a Narration by Stanley HendricksIntroduction by Manoocher AryanpurDrawings by Bill GreerExcerpt:"Life is that which we see and experience through the spirit;But the world around us we come to know through understanding and reason."The prose in this little book is deep.
Thoughts and MeditationsExcerpt:"Your Truth shall meet my Truth and blend together like the fragrance of flowers and become one whole and eternal Truth, perpetuating and living in the eternity of Love and Beauty"Much of the book has a philosophical, and at times religious, slant.
It is easy to overlook with the beauty of the artwork and deep meaning behind much of the words.
I have this old paperback titled, "Secrets of the Heart" by Kahlil Gibran.
Not, "Hearts" as this goodreads title reads.
But it contains one of my favorite quotes of all time - a quote fairly telling of why I will always and forever be a tree-hugging, romantic with a penchant toward mysticism:"I sought solitude for in it there is a full life for the spirit and for the heart and for the body.
I came to this far corner of God's domain for I hungered to learn the secrets of the Universe, and approach close to the throne of God."From The Tempest part II
This book was not one of my favorite works of Khalil Gibran.
Maybe because I picked this book up right after I finished one of his other books, I thought some of the endings were getting monotonous, and hence unexciting.Like in all his other books, the comparisons he made, the metaphors used, are a delight for the reader.
I also loved the poem, The Countrymen.I feel the book is blemished by the consistent mood throughout, but because of my devotion to Gibran, I might still reread it to explore what I might have missed the first time.
This is a book of 11 pieces, a mix of short stories and poems.
They're all characteristically of a beautiful language - beautiful in the sense that they all seem a little too...
ornate, too flowery.
(I suppose it's the writing style that dominates that part of the world?)Nevertheless, the themes quite surprised me.
These are not your usual stories - these are stories that are meant to wake something inside you, making you remember that there's something quite not right in the world.
Indeed, there's a strand of activism carefully weaved in *almost* every piece.Few pages, great read.
Kahlil Gibran is one of my favorite authors. Everything that I have read written by him is amazing. This book is sectioned off into many short stories, poems, and beautiful sayings. His works impress upon me deeply, simple truths that bring light to the heart. One of my favorite quotes in the book is: "God has placed in each soul a true guide to the great light, but man struggles to find life outside himself, unaware that the life he is seeking is within him."
it is the best book i have read so far . it completely changed me and my lifestyle. a compltee bonus for everyone who thoroughly read this book.
read this in an hour at work WHILE working!
A nice read. It is short but deep.
1968 Hallmark edition, drawings by Bill Greer.
Beautiful.
from Mom and Dad, Christmas 1970
داستان عشق به زنی به نام سلیمه است
overall it was good, though my quite for me
it's a great book it have money stories each one criticize a behavior in people and it's more of a spiritual book <3
Like all Khalil Gibran's books, this is filled with amazing writings.
Beautiful read
Beautifully written!
Classic early 20th century know-it-all. *eye roll* Yeah, I don't know - philosopher meets spiritualist meets romanticist who thinks he's God. ....yeeeah.
Although The Secrets of the Heart maintains the similar poetic language of Gibran's style of writing, I feel it was a bit lackluster in power and evocation.
These stories, I felt, paled in comparison to such works as Broken Wings and The Prophet.
Much of these stories presented a similar call to action to renounce worldly possessions and embrace inner strength a theme prevalent throughout all his works however, I felt that The Secrets of the Heart was a bit less convincing.
I have reread all of the works I own by Gibran, but I have a feeling this one might sit a bit longer on the shelf.
I like how he creates the mystic aura around the main character. His philosophy gives good perspective
Its a very old school poetry, which is really nice to read every now and then. I particularly liked it because it had the same type of writing that is used in the Bible.
This world is but a wine shop whoseOwner is Time, and the drunkardsDemands much for little offeringHands down, one of the best poets I have read.
Just a little book filled with a lot of inspiration by one of the world's special human beings. His time here was too short but he left behind beautiful writings that are a joy to read.
