https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170666.A_Witches_Bible
historically this book does a great job going througb the development of the Gardener tradition. However the feelings about Christian back ground. I recommend reading as a resource but not as a tradition for my homosexual brothers and sisters.
When I was 13 and wanting to learn more about Wicca, my mom and I went bookshopping and got this. GAH! Naked old people! Once I got over that, I realized that what is called "traditional wicca" was not for me, and that neopaganism was more up my alley.
Written by Gardnerian Craft authorities, Janet and Stewart Farrar, it encapsulates much of what the Farrars wrote in previous books, "Eight Sabbats for Witches" and "The Witches' Way".
It is a very good overview and outline of how formal covens work, the structure behind them and a basic framework for these Rites within Gardnerian Wicca are included.
When I was in a formal tradition, this book was one we referred to often.
One caveat I would add that in spite of much erroneous information on the web, this book is still, however about Wicca.
If I'd known this was about Wicca I would not have tried to read it. I got three pages into it and they lost me at "as a man loves a woman by mastering her." I don't take anything seriously that starts out with patriarchal nonsense. Do not recommend.
Doreen Valiente, who worked very closely with Gerald Gardner and wrote many of his rituals and much of the Wiccan liturgy in use today, worked with the Farrars closely on this book.And aside from the practicality and historical accuracy, the rituals contained herein, re-constructed from Gardner's Book of Shadows with Doreen's help and with embellishments and additions made by Janet, are absolutely beautiful.
I used their handfasting ritual as a basis for my own wedding and changed very little (though I had to adapt it for a crowd and not a coven).For practitioners of Witchcraft and/or Wicca, this book is a must-read.
I was given this by some friends who are into the occult with the assurance that I would find something of historical and cultural relevance.
We shall see.....(promised that I wouldn't mention the boobs and bums pictures).....haaa so difficult, sorry.
If you are looking at this I will read it, honest!HERE'S THE REVIEW AS PROMISEDNow this was to be a deep and somewhat meaningful review but no.This book is a steaming puddle of horse piss....REALLY, you master your women and own them.
Burn bits of paper.
GIVE ME STRENGTH!Mr Norrell where are you when we need you?
I had to confirm several times the year this book was written in.
So stop talking about mastering your women being a sign of love and that homosexuals can't be witches.
Are you FUCKING DUMB?!?!?!?!This book and author aren't even worth the time it takes to write a proper review.
If you are looking for something that Paganism and witchcraft is NOT then you have found your book.
I could imagine that the ilks of Zsuszanna Budapest, the Dianic "witch" who refers to transsexuals as "trannies" and denies that they are women, would just love this hateful, bigoted, sexist, and probably some other -ist garbage.
This is a very interesting book and a must read for all those interested in Wicca, especially Traditional branches.
This book approaches several topics which are important for any Wiccan and even any Modern Witch, it focus a lot on the Wiccan POV and method of working.
If you dislike the Wiccan method (coven work, male/female polarities, initiations, sky clad, etc) then you'll probably not enjoy this book.
Personally I'm not Wiccan but I find it very interesting and I consider this a must-read for any student of Wicca.
Along with Buckland's big blue book and Cunningham's Solitary Practitioner, this book completed the trinity of my early pagan education. Could all of these books really be describing the same religion? It certainly kept me from blindly following any one take on Wicca. Of the three, the Fararrs certainly seemed the "witchiest" to me. Inclusion of actual photos makes the book all the more appealing.

Ok...I will be honest...I am not sure where I stand on this book. In regards to efforts put into it, I believe it is a good book...I believe that it is just outside of my belief which is why I have a hard time enjoying it...but then this is how it is with us all...I appreciate this book for what it is and it does provide a good amount of information, so I take what I like and leave what I do not....I would recommend it to others, as I think that for some it could be an invaluable resource!
A MUST have for any following the path.
I learned a lot about the craft from this text. It covers all aspects of Wicca specific to the Farrah's and their coven.
Another dive into Wicca but compared to Wicca For Beginners, I got a somewhat judgmental feeling from this book.
Like their tradition was the only right one?
I didn't think so when I was a teen and started looking into it, but I think it less now.
Anyway, to the book!This book didn't really bring much new to the table compared to what I already knew, but it had a lot of info that I didn't know.
Like backstory on the Sabbaths and such, which was really interesting.
It also had rituals for the lone practitioner that might want to start up by themselves.
Può essere un'opera di riferimento per informarsi sulla Wicca tradizionale, ma niente di più.
Because this book is the compilation of two separate volumes, I'm combining my reviews of both for this edition."Eight Sabbats for Witches" This book has been a source of inspiration to me for quite a few years, and it is one of the better books concerning the Sabbats available. The rituals are all written with a coven in mind, but a resourceful Solitary can adapt them for individual use with a little bit of creativity and serious thought.Each Sabbat is covered in detail, with ample folkloric re
The rituals are all written with a coven in mind, but a resourceful Solitary can adapt them for individual use with a little bit of creativity and serious thought.Each Sabbat is covered in detail, with ample folkloric references and history related, which serve to enrich the symbolism of the holiday, as well as the ritual practice itself.Many modern readers take umbrage at the Farrars' insistence on gender polarity within the coven, but it should be kept in mind while reading that this book was written over thirty years ago and that societal norms and gender dynamics have shifted tremendously since its initial publication.
(There were two points in this book where I openly scoffed and rolled my eyes -- one being when the authors claimed that the term "black magic" sounds racist and they felt the need to assure the reader that "we have black friends in our coven, so we're not racist;" the other being when they said "we're not homophobic, we just focus on NATURAL sexuality and we've had homosexual friends so we can't be homophobes." Seriously, ugh.) Other than that, the commentary on how patriarchy affects women was very interesting.So, strangely enough, I've come away from this book noticing some flaws in Wicca, a religion I once held in very, very high regard.
Not sure why folks keep citing them as Gards, as they went on to call themselves reformed Alexandrians.
The descriptions can be a bit much but on the other hand you come away with the feeling of knowing more than you ever will need to about the language and why each holiday is celebrated a certain way.
For those who have done the 101 Wicca and need a bite of something more solid, this book offers perspective.
There are details within that may give you pause or questions as certain parts may not jive.Overall i found the book more enjoyable than i had anticipated.
It isn't something I would treat as my 'go-to' for questions and I doubt I'd ever reread it, but it was good for learning about how a set of Wiccans chose to practice.
This particular book is more about ritual then every day life.
Also is leans more toward the Celtic/Norse explanation of thing.
Several of the rituals requested to be done in the nude.
This is another book that is geared for Covens but I think it would be good for everyone to read it due to the explanation of the Sabbats.
This book is an old favourite of mine and I truly believe every Witch should own a copy!
The Farrars reveal the essential rituals of Alexandrian Witchcraft and offer rituals for all occasions plus a good grasp of coven procedures and magick for the starting Witch.
Read it for the historical value or read it to learn something; I still use their Wiccaning ritual almost word-for-word.
Get it if you practice in a coven.
It's on the required reading list of many Wiccan groups - and it should be.
Some say this book is rubbish and others love it.
If you want a well rounded outlook on witchcraft, then this book should be a part of your collection - even if you don't agree with anything they write about.
If you truly want to study witchcraft, study it from as many facets as you can so that you can formulate your own ideas and know which path you want to take.
Maybe you'll love the structure of this branch of witchcraft or maybe you won't.
Maybe you'll gleam some historical knowledge from this book or maybe not.
This is a misunderstood book.
The Farrars present a very workable system that is very close to Gardnerian Wicca, and yet it's not.
Many people think they have published the Gardnerian Book of Shadows, but they haven't, and it's very noticeable in the Sabbats.
Many have tried to use the information in this book to pass themselves off as initiates, but it's very easy to see through these attempts.
The value of this book can be found in using parts of it for Outer Court training.
It enables folks to see if they have a resonance for Gardnerian Wicca before initiation without betraying oathbound material.
There is a wealth of information in this book--truly a bible in that sense; however, ***READER BEWARE--this book is not for every witch. I recommend only the discerning witch read/practice the rituals as outlined. In my opinion there are some practices that may border on dark or grey magic which I am not comfortable with. However, it is thoroughly researched and you will find within these pages a wealth of information, history and obscure rituals that you might not find anywhere else (including sex magic, if that's your thing). Its definitely not your average fluffy white magic book.
I really enjoyed the majority of this book. It comprehensively and consistently lays out what Gardnerian/Alexandrian Wicca is, a bit of history, and the ways to actually practice Witchcraft from a religious (celebrating life events, Esbats, and Sabbats) and Deity worship, to the working aspects (divination, spellwork, healing work, etc). It might be a bit advanced for someone just beginning to delve into all of it, but should be required reading for anyone on the general "Witchcraft/Wicca" path, regardless of where you are in your journey.
The book was an essential read for those with interest in the Craft. There was a great degree of conversation about the coven's own rituals and their origins. This is a double edged sword -- while they talk only of their own experience and what they know, which I appreciate on one hand; they also limit themselves in scope. The voices of the authors are secure and ring true in their own experiences. They describe rituals in detail and offer original material as able, as well as offering information about the origination of the material and practices when known.
Pictures aside, (NUDITY*) it's a good insightful book, a bit of a thick/heavy read, and a little bit dated but much of it still applies or can still be applied to modern variants. It is very traditionalist Wicca and certain-path-specific but still contains good information for the neopagan or eclectic practitioner.*(Though if I recall it mentions nudity in practices as OPTIONAL, something which maybe the book should have reflected as having a picture less version isn't apparently.)
I've met Janet and Gavin on three occassions. They have been to my home on two occasions. Janet is the most adorable person you want to meet, and she and Gavin complement each other at lectures. I recommend all of their books. Janet Farrar is a very spiritual person, and very knowledgeable in her writing and her craft. A very dear friend. Love her.
Other than the fact that the title is misleading (it is Wiccan, which is not necessarily synonymous with witchcraft) it's a good book for aspiring Wiccans and provides a reasonable amount of useful information. Early Wicca drew heavily upon Western occultism and Ceremonial Magick, which in turn is made up of Hermetic, ancient Egyptian, Christian and Kabbalistic teachings.
Was interesting for the most part but To be fair I'm not the best with informative books. I find it hard to actually sit down read it like I would a novel or poetry book. Nonetheless, I think it's probably a great reference book if you needed an answer to something. If you are part of a coven or want to be part of a coven this is probably more helpful for you
THE BOOK on Wicca. Its really the only book you need. You may need someone more experienced in Wicca, however, to help you go through it if it is your first time reading it. You WILL understand it, though if you read it carefully, and try the exercises within it.
