https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32987.The_Greatest_Generation
I guess I liked it fine at first, but the nothing-but-profiles format became boring and pat.
The book would have been much better had he made some connections, braved some sociological theories, etc., but instead, he just kept repeating the same pat conclusions.
I did find some of the stories ones of courage and industry, like the guy who built the hospital in the economically depressed rural area when he returned from the war.
Those were some pretty amazing guys, and the proof is in the pudding.
This is a series of little real-life vignettes about various people who served in the war in various capacities, and the effect it had on their lives after they returned to civilian life.
It's the story of how black people coped with prejudice on the battlefield, and ended up being treated worse than the German POWs they guarded.
It's about ordinary men (and some famous ones) who were so changed by their war experiences, that they moved beyond the boundaries of their inconsequential lives and went on to achieve greatness.
The history of events in World War II will be confined to dates, places and events recorded in history text books.
AND HERE ARE A FEW TREATS FROM THE REST OF THE BOOK:1.) "Among other indignities, Holmes is persuaded that Fort Knox dentists experimented on BLACK (my capitals) soldiers.": I'm sorry Brokaw....
2.) "When my friends ask whether I ever considered divorce I remind them of the old saying 'We've thought about killing each other, but divorce?
I am thinking those losers didn't get in fist fights when they were young - so Brokaw doesn't want to include them.GAY PEOPLE: No such thing.
And this book exemplifies that -- as Frankenfurter says -- in spades!
A mindless valentine to a generation who segregated, polluted, procreated and retired like there was no tomorrow. Thanks for leaving us holding the bag, *ssholes.
It is imperative that we maintain in our memories, not simply the legacy of these men and women, but the awful, gruesome affair they endured that earned their generation the title: “The Greatest.” When I first stumbled upon Tom Brokaw’s book, I was working as an aide in the English department of Mountain View High School.
I am fiercely anti-war, not to mention strongly opposed to the military in general, and I thought this book would be a glamorization of the war and a deification of those who fought; that it would commit the crime mentioned in Vonnegut’s Slaughter-house Five of portraying soldiers as valiant, heroic men, championed for their ability to kill instead of the more accurate depiction of young boys, scared and far from home.
I have. even greater admiration & respect for the amazing generation of my grandparents. Thank you, Mr. Brokaw, for the stories, the history, the incredible look into the lives of the men & women in this book. I was especially shaken by the look into marriage & commitment. Sadly, our world has taken a nonchalant, all-about-me view of marriage. I pray, as weal love need to, that we will see the dire need to restore our faith in each other & our commitments till death do us part.
There are some fascinating stories in The Greatest Generation, many of which elicited "I didn't know that!" and "I'm glad I didn't have to go through that!" as I read them.
I'm glad I read the book, really I am.
However, the whole collection of mini-biographies left me feeling like I'd just experienced the USA TODAY McPaper version of these biographical accounts.
I thought his notes on racism, gender discrimination, and the effect of the war on our culture and the economy were well-considered.
I thought what he had to say was important.
Although I don't always agree with him, Brokaw deserves great credit for documenting and immortalizing some of the people who comprise the Greatest Generation.As more and more of these great warriors pass on every day, we are losing the collective memories and recollections of these people at an astonishing rate.
And it pays respect to the often-forgotten women who made such an outstanding contribution to the ultimate victory.And it was Tom Brokaw who took the great risk of recording some painful memories and in the process unleashed the torrent of repressed recollections of many other aging veterans.
The Greatest Generation is a very moving non-fiction novel that contains real life fascinating stories of WWII and the Great Depression that give you a look into the lives of veteran soldiers telling their story to Tom Brokaw.
Former anchor on NBC News, Tom Brokaw, searches for veterans from WWII and the witnesses of the Great Depression to tell their story about their day in what Brokaw calls The Greatest Generation.
I have read many biographies written by military veterans and this novel is one of the most excellent.
I read this when it was first published and wish I could have back those wasted moments.
Brokaw was a media man, a talking head and his writing ability made this painfully obvious.
Additionally, as with most talking heads, this book was nothing but pure propaganda.
The generation to which this book refers gave us nothing except a population explosion, never ending wars, out of control pollution, waste, chemicals and nuclear weapons and NOW we have them to thank for Donald Trump.
This book, its subject matter, the writing, all are pure garbage.
Using short, anecdotal descriptions of various people who contributed to the war effort in WWII Brokaw's book does an excellent job of illustrating the hard work and honor of many members of that generation.
However, Brokaw communicates this in the first few pages and then repeats it over and over again throughout the book.
I think I'm being a little harsh, and I think it's probably good to have a very approachable book like this to communicate how life was different not that long ago, but I can't say I really enjoyed it.
I really wanted to like this book- the idea of a memoir of the greatest generation is fabulous.
Unfortunately, I though Mr Brokaw got a little- how can I say this nicely- dull in the telling of a fabulous tale.
But, if one has never met some of the amazing individuals that collectively make the greatest generation, it will do.
I am just blessed to have met many folks who came of age during the Great Depression and the Second World War, and heard them speak for themselves.
#256 Stories of those in my parents' generation who lived through the Depression, World War II and lived lives of service, honor and responsibility because of the lessons learned from these events.
Difficulties like these build character Why didn't Mr. Brokaw include those who contributed by serving their country as conscientious objectors?
My dad fought forest fires in Glacier National Park for the Civilian Public Service.
He worked for $2.50 a month and fought fires on foot that were as difficult as doing battle.
These men served their country in a different way and at least deserve recognition for their sacrifices.
An excellent read about a most excellent generation. While the underlying theme is the same for each person reflected upon in this book, it is their personal stories that make this book so interesting. For the history buffs, this book will confirm your suspicions of the WWII generation. For everyone else, it will explain that unique characteristic that set your grandparents or great grandparents apart from the current generations that you know.
I loved this book, it gave real insight into the lives and values of my parents, who were mostly silent on the things that they had gone through as children, and through the war years of WW 2 . A must read for history buffs, and anyone who is lucky enough to have parents from that the Greatest generation
Reading the book was like listening to Tom Brokaw in my head. Enjoyed this tremendously, loved the "life perspective" that each person gave and Tom interpreted at the end of each chapter. Not a surprise that I agreed with most of them. I have not had an acceptable appreciation for the sacrifices made in WWII. Thank you Mr Brokaw, I will learn more and seek to right my wrong.
I hate to give out five stars too lightly, but this book has a chapter about Margaret Ringenberg. It also helps that Tom Brokaw mentions Fort Wayne, Smith Field, and Morris (the Banker from Grabill).
Such an engaging topic, too bad Brokaw wasn't up to it. The typical superficial twaddle we've come to expect from our broadcast journalist.
I felt that too often Brokaw inserted his experiences rather than concentrating on the vets he was covering.
I also like how Brokaw reiterated the thoughts of veterans on today's life, like the need for families today to have both partners working because they want to be affluent rather than concentrating on family.
I think that relaying these messages from the greatest generation paints an important picture for today's families who have never experienced the struggles that those of my grandfather's generation did - especially living through the Great Depression.Overall, the biopics covered were compelling, and Brokaw stuck to illuminating the lives of the people he covered rather than focusing on the history of World War II.
This is the single most disappointing book I have ever read.
Brokaw seemed to make a point of people coming out of exactly the same experiences with very different beliefs about politics, religion, race, etc., but never speaks of it, much less discusses why that occurred.
He included a high proportion of elected officials - does he think that war experience made it more likely that veterans went into politics, or was it simply that such a high proportion of people served, or was it because that's the people Brokaw knows?
This book could not have been more shallow unless it were convex.
Pretty good set of mini-biographes, which seek to show by example the range of virtues and lives that members of "The Greatest Generation" lived. They all had very impressive lives, of course. The writing style is a bit uneven and doesn't do them all justice, but still a very informative read.
I enjoyed this book, many good stories. But I'm sure there are hundreds of thousands of equally heroic stories, perhaps even better and more exciting. I feel like Brokaw may have skipped a few great ones, perhaps already written about, but they would still have been fine in this collection.
Very good read... It really helps you understand why your grandparents acted the way they did if you're a part of my generation.
This is a wonderful collection of stories about the Greatest Generation, those that survived the Great Depression and WWII.
I feel completely indebted to them.
I feel inspired to make a difference as big as they have.
Their stories should never be forgotten.
The one downfall to this book is, as others have mentioned, Brokaw's writing style.
While he is certainly a storyteller, I often found the writing to be simple, yet difficult to understand.
While nothing particular wrong with that style, he attempted to fill in the gaps where their would normally be images, and I don't think he was completely successful.
I guess maybe it's because my parents pretty much epitomized virtually every story in this book: grew up poor in the Depression, served overseas in WWII, married their hometown sweetheart, went on to live good lives and really never wanted to talk about the war.
I think my parents and their generation were pretty great too.
For instance, is WWII the only war where no one came home with PTSD?
No one came home with any more serious injuries than Daniel Inouye and Bob Dole (arms) and overcame that?
Where are these stories?Or maybe it was the disappointingly mediocre writing.
I didn't finish this because it was too boring.
A couple times some of the stories began to be interesting but that was about the best of it.
No wonder I trip over these in the thrift stores, which is where I got mine.
The book just never got off the ground for me.
Maybe I was excepting too much, or watched too many interesting WW2 documentaries.
The 1/3ish of the book I read probably could have been condensed into maybe one brief chapter or so.
Overall, it's not bad, just boring.
They were called the Greatest Generation for many, many reasons. It seems people were more hopeful then, more willing to put in hard work and create a life on their own. It cannot be ignored, however, that through higher taxes on the wealthy, the USA invested more in the country's infrastructure than ever before, as well as opportunities for those returning from war.
This book of 400 pages would have made a great 200 page book. It was interesting and provided some good insights, but seem to drag on a bit too long. Some books I hate to see end and some I am glad to have finished. I'm afraid this fell into the latter.
Tom Brokaw is a better broadcaster than writer, but I'll forgive him for that because these stories were so incredible, admirable, every-positive-adjective-I-can-think-of. Such powerful examples of courage, sacrifice, loyalty, and patriotism.
Some very touching stories ,that make you really appreciative for what we have.
