https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44905.Writing_Down_the_Bones
Pretty much the same as other how-to-write books.
Clearly it was a mistake to listen to Goldberg narrate this one on tape.
Yeah, I listened to this on cassette.
Writing Down the Bones made me want to play pinball with my Hyundai, using the other cars on the highway as the bumpers.
Frankly I found a great deal more worth in Stephen King's On Writing and I'm not even a big King fan.
Writing Down the Bones won't steer you wrong, hell you might even learn a thing or two, but it nearly had me steering for the nearest bridge abutment.
Its cover is wrapped in packing tape to slow the dog-earing.The first time I read this book in college, and many times since, I carried it everywhere with me, reading it before classes, and over lunch in the dining hall.
If you don't want to hear about Zen Buddhism, this book is not for you.
What this book does for me is make me want to write again.
It is very much comfort reading, something I can carry around in my purse, pull out at a bus stop and read any chapter, then look out at the world with eyes a little more open and a mind a little more clear.
I heard about this book a lot while doing Nanowrimo last year, and thought I'd read it.
It's a little amusing, written in 1984, so pre-computer really.
And some of her advice was pretty repetitive, but I did get some glimmers out of there."We walk through so many myths of each other and ourselves; we are so thankful when someone sees us for who we are and accepts us.""You're never free unless you are doing your art.""I write because to form a word with your lips and tongue or think a thing and then dare to write it down so you can never take it back is the most powerful thing I know.""If you give yourself over to honesty in your practice, it will permeate your life....
I picked up Writing Down the Bones when I was still teaching elementary school, and used ideas from it with my grades two to four students.
After doing a number of these exercises, when a student thought there might be a story to develop, the raw material of the “stream-of-consciousness” draft was used to expand on the idea, rewrite, and then edit.
Some stories contained a line per page with an illustration.
Others filled their book with writing, and the odd illustration.
For you poets out there, this book is for you.For those of you meant to write memoirs and light happy stories about light happy things, this book is for you.For those of you who want to write about things of no consequence that have some consequence - The Light Coming Through The Window, Your Favorite Meal, Blue - this book is for you too.For those of us who are busy thinking of short stories, who are thinking of horror, who think of sf that may deal with harder topics, that think of things that may not be so happy and want to write those things down.
For those of us who are dedicated to our short stories and don't want to think in poetical terms (unless, of course, you are an Artiste!), this book does not have as much for us as I had wished.It's not for lack of trying.
Reading Writing Down The Bones by Natalie Goldberg and Bird by Bird by Anne Lamott struck me as reading two very similar books from two distinct voices.
Writing Down The Bones is a personal reflection on the craft and what works for Goldberg and might work for you.
It's easy to digest, coming in short chapters, and it really does make you think about what you write, how you sit down to work, whether you're really dedicated to writing.
Some of her advice seems contradictory, but really it's just that it comes from different places in the process.
Okay, this book is amazing. I feel that this will be one of those books that never stays on my bookshelf. I will too often be taking it down to read bits and pieces. Very inspiring.
This is a great starting-point aspiring-writer's book, terrific for getting the creative juices flowing. I have used Natalie Goldberg's techniques both as a writer and as a writing teacher. But eventually, if you want to write Things That Other People Want to Read and not just Things That Are Fun to Write, you need to work on the less free-spirited, less blue-sky, and occasionally less exciting stuff: structure, pacing, whittling away extraneous words. You need to learn to *re*write, to do something with the "bones" you've flung onto the page. And this book won't take you there.
This book changed my life as a writer, a teacher of writing, and as an individual!I use this book currently in my high school Creative Writing I class.
I read chapters to the students; we talk about what they might mean, and how the advice given could change their writing.
I wasn't sure if this approach would be successful with high school age students, but within weeks I have seen more free writing, more stream of consciousness writing, and more unedited writing than ever before!
If they don't know what to write, they free write until an idea comes to mind!
It was interesting and made sense, but just not really my thing. Too much of Zen and Buddhism and it's not like I'm against it or something, but it's just not what I expected from this book, I guess. Might come back to it someday, though.
I read this book again every few years. I love it. It takes me back to the fundamentals of writing & gives me pages of notes , thoughts, lines of poetry & my own inspiration and memory. A must for all writers.
I went to a Writing Group in the Hague today for the first time.
I simply couldn't put it down.So I negotiated with the owner of the book, the friend who introduced me to the writing group, to swap the book I was reading (something about taking back your life, another self-help book I was half-way through and wanted to finish and give away because there were too many of such books on my shelf and repertoire) -- for her book to finish reading by tomorrow.I read Goldberg's bestseller on the steps next to the famous Dr Anton Philipzaal (concert hall) after a much-needed salt-and-pepper squid and rice take-out meal.
I had not read a book about writing in a long time.
Golberg wrote a book not about writing but about using Zen to overcoming self doubt.
I am sure this could be quite helpful to many prospective writers.
I rarely wallow in self doubt of my writing ability.
Maybe this technique helps poets but it seems unhelpful to prose writers.
I did glean two actual pieces of practical advice from this fifteen dollar book.
This should not shock anyone since this every book, article, and seminar about writing contains the same advice.
Put simply, don’t edit your work as you are writing.
Grāmatu "Rakstīt par būtisko" lasīju pirms gandrīz diviem gadiem, BET! šogad nolēmu to pārlasīt vēlreiz, jo ļoti gribēju nokļūt uz tāda paša vai līdzīga viļņa, uz kāda biju, lasot grāmatu pirmo reizi. Un! Man tas izdevās, kas, manuprāt, pierāda šīs grāmatas milzīgo iedvesmošanas spēku.
Regardless of how I got here, I am so pleased to read this wonderful primer on the craft of writing.The idea of just digging in without goals or expectations of the next great America novel resonated with me as refreshing and truly liberating.
Beginner’s mind and mindfulness, staying in the moment without expectations or fear, are elements of my yoga practice that I never thought to apply to writing.Goldberg suggests we approach writing as a practice.
When we practice, Goldberg suggests, sit with no expectations of yourself.
You are free to write the worst junk in the world!I'm loving the writer's group, loved this book and love writing the junk!
I put it under inspirational, since it does have a lot of that, but this is also the best writing book I have read.
It has inspired me to be a better writer myself.
And it is just a good book to read when you need something that is easy and relaxing.
Goldberg is very encouraging, inspiring, and gentle with a bit of an erotic element.
True, it was written before computers really took off, but I am sure a lot of the advice is still very applicable.
Overall, the book remains very effective and timeless.
This book is what got me writing.
Absolutely stunning in its simplicity, but also much more deep than one would think upon first glance.
Natalie Goldberg is a brilliant teacher who compares writing to many other crafts that necessitate discipline and daily practice, including meditation, friendships/relationships, athletics, and just about everything else.
A (very!) paraphrased/off the TOP of my head quote: [You may have $2 in the bank account, your children are screaming, your loved one is begging you to wash the dishes, the house is a wreck, you're hung over from the night before.
Now get up, quietly move to the next room, and WRITE.]
This was a great read on writing. I enjoyed this compilation of essays on the various aspects of being a writer and building a writing practice. What I most appreciated about this book was that the author did not just describe ways to be a better writer or tell us readers what to do in order to write better, but her essays show us that the author practices what she is preaching.
It took my ego 15 years to crack open Stephen King's memoir, On Writing.
The deep connection to that book led me to rethink this book, Writing Down the Bones, that has sat, barely touched, upon my night stand for nearly a decade.I have come to realize, through these two excellent books, that it's good to journey outside of your powerfully resistant ego and your own short-sightedness when it comes to seeking help.
It's not even about "help." Natalie Goldberg wants you to remember that, if you are provoked to write, it's for a reason, and the only way to set yourself free is to validate your expression by working at it, daily.Whether you're a veteran or a novice, you need this book.
Great book of non-dork writing prompts.
I began this book, when I was attending the University of Mississippi Writing Project Summer Institute.
Who would have thought that years later I would finish this book and use it in my English class on the collegiate level?This book is really great.
Goldberg's writing tips are beyond the realms of what is considered to be the normal method of teaching writing.
Students have a choice to write on the topic or write what's on their mind.The session is timed.
As the instructor, I participated by writing and reading, just like my students.
I had my students forgetting about a 7 am writing class.
All of the information given within the book is not 'common sense' but rather a new awakening.
Goldberg helps to take the pressure off of writing and installs the child-like passion that is so commonly and easily lost along with most writers/creators journeys.This is certainly a 2017 favourite, and I just know I will be returning to the pages of 'Writing Down the Bones' again and again.
If you are looking for a quick, satisfying, beautiful, super helpful book on the craft of writing, I highly recommend this one!
This is an excellent tool to loosening up the writing muscles.
كتاب مهم ليس لمن يرغب في الكتابة فقطبل لمن يريد أن يقرأ الأدب ويتذوق فنه
Writing Down the Bones  would most likely appeal more to memoir writers and poets than novelists, but I think anyone can learn some things from it.The interview at the end of the book tackles the idea of the differences between novel writing and other types of writing, which was helpful even if it made me a little nervous!Natalie admits in that interview what a big challenge it was for her to write a novel as she is more of a non-linear (my phrase) writer, but trudged on anyhow.
For me, this book was more about philosophy and spirituality than writing.
Put your whole mind into it." She never discusses anything past jotting something down, so the lack of discussion about going through the process of publishing something really took away from the book.
I think it is a bit misleading since it is only about writing for yourself, but this book didn't live up to my expectations.
I was given Writing down the Bones as a gift and had never heard of it before, but I think there are probably better books on writing out there.
I tried to read this book many, many years ago and quit because I didn't get much out of it.
There were occasional insights, but not nearly enough meat to keep me going.
It is still on all the "must read" lists for writers, so I thought I'd give it another chance.
After all, I was a teenager the last time I tried and I didn't have a lot of patience for things I didn't understand.I should have trusted my teen self.
Maybe if I wait another 35 years to read the book, I'll finally understand what all the hype is about.
This is not a how-to guide, but a series of anecdotes, ideas and exercises for freeing up the voice, and getting unstuck. It's very different than most books on writing, and the best I know of at what it tries to do. It sure helped me.
I don't share the writer's worldview in most ways, so that made some of her underlying ideas difficult to follow and/or agree with, but the overall message of the book was beautiful and inspiring and encouraging.
It's time for a reread of this classic....So beautiful, confident, Zen, simple, inspiring, frank, courageous, and simple. Just sit down, put pen to paper, and write your guts out. I'll come back to this book time and again, open a page, read, be inspired.
