https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89716.Al_Capone_Does_My_Shirts
I’ve been meaning to read this for a while, and I’m glad I finally got the chance.
It tells the story of 12-year-old Moose Flanagan, whose family moves to Alcatraz in the 1930s when his dad takes a job as a prison guard.
The first-person narration is beautifully done.
We assume Al Capone will have a role to play in the book, but it’s not clear what that role will be until the very end, when we get a Gangster ex Machina resolution.
It certainly left me wanting to read the sequel, if only to see if we get more about Capone.
I had to read this book once I learned that it is about little kids who lived on Alcatraz in the 1930s.
Ever since I was a little girl I've wanted to purchase Alcatraz Island and live there.
The family has just moved to Alcatraz Island where the father works around the clock at two jobs so that the sister, Natalie, can attend a prestigious and expensive school for children with mental issues.
Natalie has what would today be called autism.Moose Flanagan's view of life perfectly depicts the struggle between loving someone and half wanting them to go away.
His mother takes a boat to San Francisco most days to teach piano and Moose is in charge of head strong, not to be sidetracked Natalie.
I identified in ways most readers wouldn't with this story because I am the mother of a disabled young adult.
I never went through what Natalie's mother went through, looking for a cure, but I think I know that a disability effects everyone in the family.
There is no way all that time and attention on one child does not take away from the others but you do what you have to do.
I also loved how she showed Natalie, the sister, as a real person -- one of the few books I've read with a disabled character that really shows you the person inside.I really felt like I was on the island with them, as well.
Having it set on Alcatraz is really cool and you learn a lot about the island in the 1930s -- and of course, it's funny!After I read the book I just told Darik, "Wow. I love that children's literature can be this good and be entertaining and yet handle "adult issues" (autism, growing up, family relationships, etc.) better than adult literature can a lot of times."
The story is about a young boy named Moose and his experiences growing up as a prison guard's son on Alcatraz during the 1930's.
Moose's life is made even more interesting when he begins corresponding with Al Capone, one of the most notorious gangsters ever imprisoned on Alcatraz.
This is perhaps one of the most unique stories I have ever read, and I think that the whole coming-of-age theme ties in nicely with Moose's struggles to accept Natalie's differences.
I am definitely planning on using this book in my classroom this year, and I can't wait to see what my students think!
I did not like Al Capone Does My Shirts at all. I thought the plot was too unique to be believable. The characters had all the same traits and I thought the book was really slow. The only problem in the book was how Moose's sister, Natalie, had aspergers and was not being accepted to a special school to make her more socially comfortable. I could see the outcome of the book way before the ending. I did not enjoy this book at all. Overall, I gave Al Capone Does My Shirts one star.
And really, even autistic Natalie, Moose's older sister, has much much more to her in every way than the mother, who just appears like an annoying buzzing mosquito but who also seems to rule the roost so to speak, a scenario that I for one have found not all that pleasurable to read, as while I do not at all mind negative characters appearing in my novels, and actually often welcome them, if I want to read about one dimensional negativity and nastiness, I will generally tend to peruse fairy and folktales (and unfortunately, especially how Mrs. Flanagan is textually depicted and featured by Gennifer Choldenko, it sure does makes Al Capone Does My Shirts feel a trifle on the surface at best, with the deus ex machina ending of Al Capone actually using his influence even whilst in prison on Alcatraz to get Natalie into that special school heightening my feelings of disbelief and of being in a novel that is not all always that realistic and rather majorly artificial in scope at times).
Interesting setting (Alcatraz, 1930s) and unusual characters(boy with autistic sister), but I wouldn't have given this the Newbery honor book award.
Moose Flanagan and his family move to Alcatrez Island where his father works as a guard so that his sister Natalie can go to a special school in San Francisco for kids with disabilities.
The author deals with this topic very sensitively and emotionally, because it's based on her own experiences with her sister.Al Capone is imprisoned on Alcatraz at the time (the 1930's) and amazingly enough there were actually 50 or 60 families that made their residence on the island then.
Moose makes friends with some of the kids on the island, does a lot of growing up, and gets into some trouble.
From the first paragraphs I realized that this was not the light-hearted, funny book that the title suggested.
And yet it was a good wholesome read that left one feeling better rather than worse.
This book walks the fine line between tense and funny and yet has heart.
It should be a good recommendation for reluctant readers, particularly of the young male persuasion.
Told from a young man's perspective, it in some ways it reminded me of a Walton's episode.
Nevertheless, it was a fast engaging read that I'm glad I experienced.
One wonders what Dickens would have thought of the way convicts were portrayed here.
I don't agree with the enthusiasm for this book.
I wanted to like this book.
But this book just didn't cut it.
The characters developments were horrid.
Plus, the whole 'let's see how close we can monopolize Al Capone' story line was weak in aligning with the characters.
This is where I wish I was articulate because I want to spell out how the characters broke this book for me and therefore how silly the story became.
~Anyone out there that has read this book and see what I see and can help effectively describe the bazaarness?
However, some of the characters weren't very active in the plot and it just left me with questions about their participation in the book.
I couldn't help but feel for Moose's character as his mother forced him to mature sooner than he was ready for.
I wanted her to recognize Moose's participation in Natalie's improvement.
I wanted her to show Moose her love.
Moose's relationship with Natalie alone could be a class-long discussion among the students.
I love the idea of the map in the book to help readers visualize the events and places that Choldenko writes about.
In 1935, 12-year-old Moose moves with his parents and autistic sister, Natalie, to Alcatraz Island.
Despite his best intentions, Moose finds himself under the sway of the warden's conniving daughter, Piper, which distracts him from the important responsibility of caring for Natalie, and above all keeping her condition quiet.
Piper ropes Moose into forbidden stunts like selling laundry done by the inmates to their school’s non-prison-dwelling students.
But when Natalie’s condition threatens to end everything Moose cares about, Moose bucks the rules himself by trying to appeal to Al Capone himself for help.This is a very well-written and enjoyable book.
Read this on the plane before visiting Alcatraz, and it was the perfect introduction.
I was reading more for the historical nuggets, but there was a wealth of pitch-perfect human interactions and that was the meat of this book: kids who felt real, and parents who felt real, and an adult who felt just shy of villainy in a way that of course a kid would see the guy, and a fabulous representation of autism in the 1930s.
- but let's call this an Actual Deserving Newbery Book.(If you detect any bitterness there, what can I say.)I was thrilled to see this in the Alcatraz gift shop.
3.5 stars. Full review to come very soon!
I read this book a long time ago, probably about fourth grade.
I do not remember all the teeny tiny details, but I do remember the brand new perspective I gained from reading this book, a new perspective of people.
To me this book is all about perspective.
I think that everyone should read this book no matter what age they are or where they come from, because it will make anyone give a second thought to their perspective.
It is definitely saying something that this book evoked such deep thoughts in me even as a fourth grader!
For one thing, you've got Alcatraz - what's not to like about the country's most famous prison for a setting for a kid's book?
Oh don't get me wrong, this isn't a book for little kids, it's actually aimed at middle readers though older readers can get a lot out of it too.
Now we add in the depression, one of the world's most famous criminals, and autism and you've got something interesting.
Yep, I said autism.This isn't so much about the prison as the relationships of those who live and work there.
Moose is a normal boy except for the fact that his sister has Aspergers, she is incredibly intelligent.
They just moved to the historic island of Alcatraz and finds that it's not as easy as you think it is.
He recently moved to a different school and is told that his sister isn't doing well in her new class.
Things are hard in Moose's new house with moving to Alcatraz and much more.
I gave this book one star because overall Al Capone does my shirts was a very slow read, it was hard for it to keep your attention.
I know I'm late to discovering this one, but it is just terrific. Great historical fiction, but also a whole lot more as we watch Moose navigate a move, new school, and the challenges of having a sister who today we'd identify as having autism. Choldenko's development of Moose's character is masterful. She nailed the adolescent firestorm of emotions.
Wonderful story about family life on the island of Alcatraz. In particular, this book focuses on a young boy and his autistic sister in a time before special schools and programs were available to help families. It combines humor, speculative history, unusual setting and perceptive empathy for children who are different and those who love them. All-in-all a very memorable and enjoyable book.
One of the best middle-grade books I have read. It's fabulous! It's both funny and very much tender. It is set in 1935 but very much feels like it's happening at this very moment. The relationship between the main character and his sister is so well done. Absolutely a great read for age 10 and up!
I thoroughly was impressed and surprised by this book. I was afraid it would be a little "censored" and unintelligent. We all know those books. Overall location was a pretty good idea. The ending was perfect. Goes to show that some people can have insane amounts of power, no matter the challenges.
This big kid adored this book for kids and the audio version with narration by Johnny Heller is superb.
Moose thinks this is going to be the worst thing to happen to him and they only moved their because his sister needs to go to a special school.
He is at an age where taking your sister along with you is not cool, but most of his friends are pretty cool with hanging with her.
The author using a lot of historical facts about alcatraz and puts fictional spin on it that makes it a great read and I think both young boys and girls with enjoy this series.
Great story of a family that moves to Alcatraz.
It deals with having a family member who is autistic back in 1936 when little was known of this condition.
Moose is 12 and his sister Natalie is 10 for 5 years straight, she is autistic and that is how her mother deals with it by saying she is younger.
She feels that as a child Natalie has a better chance of getting help.
It is hard on the family .
Luckily Dad finds a job at Alcatraz and is able to move the family there.
This is a really good book, I recommend this book to History lovers.
He's just getting his footing making friends at school and getting into a baseball game, getting tangled up in Piper, the Warden's conniving daughter's schemes when his mom insists he has to watch over his sister while both his parents pick up more work to afford to put Natalie in the special school.Like with book four, I found the descriptions of family life, life on Alcatraz, the historical setting, the characters, and the plot were quite engaging.
I was looking around for books by authors I hadn’t read before and I remembered the title so I gave it a shot.
The book is centered on Moose, whose father works as an electrician and guard.
He has an autistic older sister named Natalie and his nemesis on the island is Piper who just happens to be the warden’s daughter.You can’t help but feel sorry for Moose and Natalie is a little conniver if there ever was one.
I notice this book carries the suffix #1.
I hope the author doesn’t run this idea into the ground with a load of sequels.
A middle grade Newberry Honor book that a big kid like me could fully appreciate.
Based on historical facts, this book takes place on the Island of Alcatraz in 1935.
A place where tough criminals like Al Capone and George "Machine Gun" Kelly were incarcerated.
Today, Natalie would most likely be diagnosed as Autistic, but in 1935 Autism had yet to be named.
This is a book both funny and touching.
I chose the audio version of the book and the narrator did not disappoint.
Excited to read or listen to the next book in the series.
I enjoyed reading this and plan on reading the other two in the series: Al Capone Shines My Shoes and Al Capone does my homework.
While this is obviously a work of fiction it is historically accurate.
I find Alcatraz intersting and the fact that families lived on the island during the prison's existence absolutely fascinating.
The book's characters are fascinating as well.
I loved the interaction between the protagonist, Mathew (a.k.a. Moose) and his sister, Natalie.
Natalie is autistic so it was interesting to see how that was handled during 1935, the year in which the book takes place.
