https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7779059-side-jobs
Nice, well rounded short story collection featuring some of the side characters from the series. I liked seeing the growth of the author as well as some other POVs. Made me hungry for more Harry!!
This is an excellent collection of short stories, all part of the Harry Dresden universe, and each one introduced by the author showing where it fits the overall story line and why he wrote it.
All of the stories are good, some short, some long, some serious, some very funny.
Some are not even told from Harry's perspective although he is still there.
Notable for this is Backup, told from Thomas's point of view and great for giving a whole different view on Thomas, Harry and their relationship.If you like the Dresden Files then you will enjoy this.
This is a series of short stories listed as Dresden 12.5 and after his 12th Dresden novel Changes.
These are a collection of shorter works from throughout the Dresden files but many are around the time of Changes, Turn Coat and Small Favor.
Two stories break with tradition and are told not from Harry’s perspective but from Thomas’ and Murphy.Good fun and an anthology that Dresden fans and will not want to miss, BUT after you’ve read all the way through Changes.
The most important thing is that I got my Harry Dresden "fix." Everytime I read one of these books, I tear through it like a hyperactive child in a bulk candy story.
All (except "Aftermath") were released in prior anthologies, or on the web, prior to Side Jobs, with the exception of "Back-up," which was originally a very limited release from Subterranean Press.Readers should note that if you are not entirely caught up on the series, there are spoilers galore throughout the collection, especially in "Aftermath." If you are enthusiastic about The Dresden Files, DO NOT READ this one until you have finished all the regular novels.
I think my favorite bit was Harry getting turned on by watching Murphy make out with another woman on the magical equivalent of a date rape drug, and then lying to her about what happened later because it would just bother her to know.
My absolute favorite has to be when a woman who was once mind-whammied into having a relationship with Harry that she wouldn’t have otherwise later apologizes to Harry for it.
Perhaps nearly as fucked up as Jim Butcher not having any apparent idea he’s doing any of this shit..
[4.5 stars] All the Dresden fun, but with a few alternate POV’s like Murphy and Thomas to sweeten the deal – sign me up! I enjoyed this compilation of novellas immensely – maybe even slightly more than the last couple of novels. Every story brought something new and interesting to the table, and I kind of wish I had read them alongside the novels chronologically. Overall, I’d say don’t skip this one – it’s every bit as worth your time as the main series itself.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.nikihawkes.com
If they are sticklers for reading books in order, this would be an issue.Story order (Thanks, Wikipedia!)"A Restoration of Faith"This takes us back to when Harry was still apprenticing to get his PI license and he saves a girl who goes missing from a Troll that literally lives under a bridge.
There's a lot of story in this, from showing Harry's relationship with people who he's helped in the past, or who have fought with him, to a rematch with a very dangerous and vengeful enemy that Harry's encountered, out for blood and destroy him and those he loves."It's My Birthday, Too"I have a thing for Harry's brother Thomas.
Side Jobs is a collection of Harry Dresden short stories.A Restoration of Faith: Harry goes on a missing persons case and winds up tangling with a troll.Not a bad story but not particularly good either.
The story isn't too bad though.Aftermath: In the aftermath of Harry's disappearane at the end of Changes, Murphy struggles to fill the void as she tracks down Georgia, a missing werewolf and uncovers a lot of other supernatural activity.Ok. This one was great and makes me want to read the next Dresden Files book.
The plot adds a new layer to the problems of the Dresdenverse and Thomas' life, and getting a look inside Thomas' head makes me more sympathetic toward him than ever."Something Borrowed" -- Fun. I especially love how Harry deals with the wicked step-mother-in-law, but the chaos at the wedding and the twist on the fairy tale are good, too."It's My Birthday, Too" -- Perfect reading for Halloween, although it's set on Valentine's Day. The part about the shoe store is adorable, and I always like it when Harry and Thomas work together."Heorot" -- Very good.
Note: On advice from Sandi, thank you Sandi, I make note here that if you haven't read Changes you should read it before you read (at least the final story in) this book as it will give away the end of said novel.
I'm holding on not wanting to "wish my life away" as my mother would have said (especially at my age) but dying for Ghost Story to be released.So, great book some action, some laughs, some details about Harry you might not have picked up if you've only read the novels.
Reviewed for THC ReviewsWhen reading anthologies, I usually pick up one novella here and there to fill in gaps between longer books and rarely read them straight through. With that being the case, I've decided to post reviews of each story as I finish it. Reviews on the remaining novellas and the overall book rating will be forthcoming.:-)*newest review for this anthology A Restoration of Faith  - Restoration of Faith is a short prequel novella in the Dresden Files series. It's only about the le
Using a tracking spell, Harry, with the help of Murphy and Bob, must rescue Georgia and get her to the wedding before Billy unknowingly marries the wrong woman.This was a really fun novella that I very much enjoyed reading.
- “It's My Birthday, Too” is a really fun short novella that falls between White Night and Small Favor in the Dresden Files series chronology.
- “Day Off” is a fairly short story of only about twenty pages that falls between Small Favor and Turn Coat in the Dresden Files series chronology.
This book is a collection of stories which span from the beginning of Harry's career to just after the novel "Changes".
Many things that are mentioned in passing in the novels are told in these stories.
The first story tells of Harry's first meeting with Murphy.
Another story tells the tale of Billy and Georgia's wedding.
Although it isn't necessary to read these stories to enjoy the novels, I recommend that you do as they are very entertaining on their own and fill in some of the gaps between novels.
The writing and tone are on par with the rest of the series, and make up a good read for Dresden fans waiting for the next full novel to come out.While the stories in this collection are not directly related to the arcs, they do happen in between major events and thus make more sense when you know the background.
It's as good a way to read the shorts as any, but if you chose to read them while reading the main novels there's a note at the beginning of each story when it takes place (between which novels).
The stories are:“Restoration of Faith”: in which Harry finds a missing girl, but it’s never as simple as it seems.
It’s also where Harry meets Murphy, plus a troll, so bonus!“Vignette”: This story is just a short piece where Bob and Harry talk about his Yellow Pages ad, and why Harry does what he does.“Something Borrowed”: Billy and Georgia’s wedding.
And then real vampires show up.“Heorot”: Mac brings Harry in to look for a woman who has gone missing.
It takes place right after the end of Changes and will bring me into Ghost Story.
I've been working on this one as I go along in the series, so technically I've been reading this book for the better part of 4 months.
But I have enjoyed it quite a lot, and so I never really felt that draggy "Am I done yet??" feeling that I often do when books sit on my Currently Reading shelf for a long time.
I also really liked seeing stories from other characters' perspectives.
I loved the story from Murphy's perspective, and would have liked to see more of them.
3  starsI have read 11 books in this series and have developed a soft spot for Harry Dresden but never once considered listening to this series in audio. That is until a GR friend wrote a glowing review of how much fun the audio versions are.I now understand why. James Masters does an excellent job narrating this popular series. I also enjoyed the short intro by the author before each story, explaining why he wrote this or where the idea came from. I won’t go into detail about each story as they
That is until a GR friend wrote a glowing review of how much fun the audio versions are.I now understand why.
I also enjoyed the short intro by the author before each story, explaining why he wrote this or where the idea came from.
I won’t go into detail about each story as they may contain spoilers for anyone who have not read up to book 12.
All I can say is my favourite was “Day Off” I actually laughed out loud in my car during peak traffic like a demented person.I will now go and get the audio for the rest of the books in the series because this is too much fun to pass up on.
This book was a great way to give you snippets of information in between the other books and the people, Harry, Michael, Butters, Murphy and others.
Vignette - *4* Very brief, somehow reminding me of how much more cynical Harry has grown over the course of the series.Something Borrowed - *4* Great story involving Billy and Georgia and a nasty fae plot.
And his voice is Harry-like - shoring up their connection - but still distinct.The Warrior - *5* Amazing follow-up to the events of Small Favor, with a scene so emotional and tense and human I stopped breathing for a moment.
Though she’s come far over the years, and no one would ever doubt her ability in a fight, it’s been difficult to get a proper feel for the woman.
It's been a year and a half since I listened to a Harry Dresden book.
I have to laugh here because my next statement is such a book-nerd statement.
I really really missed HARRY in my life.
I love this series for so many reasons....the world building, the creative characters, the NARRATOR of the audios, just to name a few.
This book is a collection of short stories.
Now short stories is a genre I can only handle in moderation but this collection was perfection.
There were a couple of stories that weren't told from Harry's POV, and I thought that would bother me (given my Harry crush), but I liked them, especially Murphy's story.
This was different. Short stories some even from different POVs. Funny, serious, some evern really short like 3 pages haha but still enjoyable. Only read if youre a fan otherwise give it a miss.
Harry's Other Adventures10 April 2017 I’m not really sure if I can say all that much about this book, namely because it really didn’t seem to sit well in the flow of things, and like a lot of rather dull books that I have read in the past I started finding myself becoming rather bored with it, especially when I got to the last story, or rather novella. The thing is that while I have appreciated the adventures of Harry Dresden up until this point, these ‘side jobs’, or adventures that he has had
Harry's Other Adventures10 April 2017	I’m not really sure if I can say all that much about this book, namely because it really didn’t seem to sit well in the flow of things, and like a lot of rather dull books that I have read in the past I started finding myself becoming rather bored with it, especially when I got to the last story, or rather novella.
Okay, when he is giving us a glimpse through the eyes of Karen Murphy there are aspects of her personality that is simply not going to be anything like Dresden’s, but in a way I still felt as if she was basically a female, non-magical, Harry Dresden.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...Merged review:https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...Merged review:https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...Merged review:https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Especially enjoyed the stories from Thomas' and Murphy's POVs. It was nice to see Jim Butcher in short form as well.
★★★★★#10.4 BACKUPThis was a story from Thomas' POV, and it was a nice change seeing a Dresden story from another perspective a story in which Harry himself is part of, too ★★★★★#10.3 THE WARRIORThis is a story where someone is trying to target Michael Carpenter - a good friend of Harry's, and Harry does everything he can to get to the bottom of it and save Michael.
Not my favorite, but still interesting ★★★★#11.5 LOVE HURTSThis was a story where Butcher teases us with a Harry/Murphy story again, but I honestly loved how this turned out.
Changes ends on quite a cliffhanger, and I enjoyed seeing this story from Murphy's POV.
[note: I got that question answered in the next short, Love Hurts] "Love Hurts" An interesting little tale that explores something I've been wanting to see more of between Harry and a certain tiny jiu-jitsu master.
I had hoped for something with a little more punch, especially given where this story picks up from.***All told, I felt that while the stories themselves were interesting (some more than others) and provided some connective tissue into the larger arc of the series, the overall feel of the collection was average.
A collection of stories taking place from before the first book to just after Changes.
I actually liked it better than Ghost Story.
No incoming apocalypse, a lot of actions, and the good guys actually get some breaks, unlike the books in the main storyline.
I am not going to discuss all the stories one by one, but will try to give the whole picture.
What is good about them is that they fill some blanks in between the main story.
Where was Georgia during the events of Ghost Story?
These are answered in the book.
Good fast read.
This is a fantastic collection of short stories that take place between the various novels that make up the series.
It ends with a new one that takes place after the major cliffhanger at the end of Changes.
It's fun seeing some of the minor things Dresden deals with between his major adventures.
Dresden's trademark sarcasm, geekiness, and determination to do right are in every tale.
If you like the adventures of Chicago's resident wizard, you should really check these out.
I suggest you do read it after you've caught up as far as Changes since there are some spoilers to that point.
I usually end up rating short stories a star lower than the rest of a series because they are usually too short to adequately portray characters or include and interesting enough plot.
But Butcher manages to add more depth into his characters with each of these stories, and makes them interesting enough to engage you throughout this collection.
The stories are fun, silly, and sometimes heartbreaking - and not all are told from Harry's POV, which helps give even more insight into the characters we've grown to love.
I loved these in-between-the-novels short stories. Lots of good attention on some of the secondary characters and their behind the scenes parts in the overall storyline. As always top notch reads. you won't go wrong reading the Dresden Files books. My highest recommendation
Great collection of short stories. The best was the last one, for sure. I love Karrin Murphy.I really liked those from other characters' perspectives. It was nice to see through someone's eyes other than Harry's!
It contains a story set before Storm Front and Welcome to the Jungle, and ends with a novella set just after Changes.When we were initially discussing our The Dresden Files extravaganza, Garrett and I talked a bit on how we wanted to review Side Jobs.
So instead of talking about how much I loved each of the entries in Side Jobs, you’ll get a brief synopsis of some of my favorites.“Something Borrowed”It’s a big day: Billy and Georgia are getting married, and Harry is filling in as best man after Kirby lands in the hospital following Dead Beat.
