https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/656876.The_Year_of_the_Hare
Paasilinna seems to me a new Lewis Carroll, and Vatanen seems the male and adult version of Alice, who followed the white rabbit without delay as well as Vatanen follows the hare to the discovery of a new world.And you?
A me Paasilinna sembra tanto un novello Lewis Carroll, e Vatanen la versione maschile e adulta di Alice nel paese delle meraviglie, che seguì senza indugi il bianconiglio così come Vatanen segue la lepre alla scoperta di un mondo nuovo.E voi?
I really enjoyed Arto Paasilinna's The Year of the Hare. It seemed part fable, part drunken frenzy and part Walden Pond; this crazy combination resonated with me. Our protagonist walks out on his life and wanders rural Finland with a hare (which he has rescued) as his companion. His acceptance and adaptability to his shifting circumstances and his bond to his new traveling companion transform his life in unpredictable ways. It's a short read, but it both made me smile and got me thinking.
He chases the hare into the forest and begins an off-the-grid adventure.He decides to quit his job, divorce his wife of his loveless marriage and spend a year wandering the wilds and small rural towns of Finland with the hare as companion.His craziness is infectious; his care for the hare becomes a catalyst to bring others out of their dull routines.
So a game warden becomes an artist, spending an hour drawing him a picture of a flower the hare will like to eat; a taxi driver starts collecting plants for the hare.
After all, most of the time, we laugh at the stereotypical patterns we recognise in ourselves and our environment?Paasilinna is advertised as one of the funniest Scandinavian authors - at least in Sweden, where sense of humour in general unfortunately fell victim to a budget cut in the 1970s.
Or does it mean I can't appreciate it, being Swedish and a victim of the 1970s budget cut, including abolition of irony and sarcasm in all its forms, and leaving only a very narrow selection of "hahaha, he-slipped-on-a-banana"-type of humour?Or does it mean that Scandinavia is good at many things, but comedy is for unhappier parts of the world?
Do not even bother, amigos. Even if you fancy rabbits. This is one of the worst novels I have ever read.Its pretty much insipid sketches of Finnish rural life. Rudimentary to a most disagreeable/laughable degree!This strange, dull and dimwitted collection of feeble fables may possibly be analogies or legends of Finnish culture. In which case, yikes. Finland, do not let thus represent your national character. It paints you all as ski bunnies with neurons firing lazily in some stagnant sauna of a collective brain.
I gave this 5 stars because I enjoyed reading Vatanen's adventures with his companion hare. I was even imagining how it feels like to be Vatanen who abandoned his wife, career, and life in the city just to explore the rurals. This book made me realize that for once, I want to break free from all the responsibilities and obligations in the city. I wonder how many of those who read this have envisioned themselves on Vatanen's shoes and envied him for having the guts to get away.
Has a time ever come into your life when you thought of just walking away and leave everything behind?
You pick you bag, check your wallet and just go the opposite direction from where you were originally heading.Kaarlo Vatanen, a journalist and a photographer, does exactly like that in this book.
The book is thought-provoking because it is about what one really wants to do in one’s life when you get to its mid-point.
Or if you are just wondering how a popular Finnish novel reads like in its English translation.
Humorous story of a man who abandons his life in the city to live in the Finnish wilderness with a wild hare. Manages to talk about how charming and pleasant this way of life is without being overly pedantic. Sweet and earnest, but not cloying.
Shy and undemonstrative, he's also very capable, happy living on his own (with the hare) in the subarctic woods for months on end, felling trees and expanding his cabin.The work was heavy, but Vatanen liked that: he knew he was getting stronger, and he wasn't weighed down by the thought of having to do this work till the end of his life.He doesn't know what he wants exactly, he just knows he can't go back to the job, the wife, the mortgage, the deadlines, the routine.
She suggested Paasilinna's The Year of the Hare – which is apparently a classic in Finland, where it was first published in 1975.What a marvelous book!
It perfectly captures the spirit of the 70s, and the Finnish setting gives it a kind of magic.
It starts off in with an accident – in fact, the whole book is nothing but a series of accidents, but not the cloying synchronicity of erstatz "magical realism." This is the real thing, one (almost) ordinary odd event after another quietly accumulates – so that after a few chapters a stunned happiness sneaks over you.
Quite boring really (apart from the poor hare) It is set in Finland. The main character...Vatenen, appears to be short on genuine feeling (apart from the poor hare)The book is divided into chapters, each one focused on a particular experience. There is a fair bit of brutality and cruelty. I struggled to finish it but thankfully it was quite short. It reads like a journalist has written it. Not for me at all.
Meravigliosa Scandinavia!Alzi la mano chi, almeno una volta nella vita, anche solo per mezzo secondo, non abbia mai pensato di mollare tutto, lavoro, famiglia, obblighi e responsabilità, e scappare via di punto in bianco.
Del resto, un momento di (sana) follia può capitare a tutti.A Vatanen, giornalista quarantenne, accade in una fase cruciale della propria esistenza, quando si sente deluso, amareggiato, stanco di tutto ciò che ha, matrimonio incluso, e coglie al balzo l’occasione di “perdersi” nel bosco al seguito di un leprotto ferito.
'The Year of the Hare' is a Finnish book that has been translated into English.
In it, Vatanen picks up an injured hare and walks away from his life to just hang out for a year.
Interesting premise but I think it loses something in the translation.The most endearing character in the book is, without doubt, the hare who heals from his injuries and becomes unfailingly loyal to Vatanen.
U realnosti, kolebam se između tri i četiri zvezdice ali pošto sa ocenjivanjem generalno loše stojim, knjiga je nekako topla i prijatna a i na godišnjem sam, nek bude četiri , za zeca kao simbol divljine koji pokazuje više humanosti i vaspitanja nego civilizovani građani.
Volela bih da je knjiga završila pre nego što se ’ desilo’ 19.poglavlje koje je bilo potpuno van konteksta i kao da je nekako upalo tu greškom.
Zec. Mnogo sam se plašila za tog zeca, ko da je moj.
Mislim da do kraja knjige više nisam mogla da razdvojim zeca i Vatanena kao zasebne karaktere .
They were husbands, deceiving and deceived; stomach ulcers were on the way for both of them; and many other worries filled their days.” Life changes forever for Vatanen when they hit a young hare with the car.
It doesn’t even get a name.)I enjoyed some parts, like the fisherman’s conspiracy theory about the president, and the impetuous pastor.
But episodic books like this often leave me cold, and it’s not really the animal-lover’s tale it appears to be: two other creatures come to gruesome ends.
As Vatanen thinks, “Anyone could live this life … provided they had the sense to give up the other way of life.”
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
3.8Ne pitajte kako sam do tog broja došla. :DSem nekih zamerki, koje sam imala, najviše u vezi kraja, dopala mi se knjiga, a što je bitnije, zadržala mi se u mislima i još neko duže vreme nakon čitanja.Recenzija je na blogu.http://thestuffdreamsaremadeof21.blog...
Le succhi distrattamente, ma alla fine ti pizzica il naso.L'uomo che abbandona la frenetica vita cittadina, preferendole una salubre esistenza silvestre, non sarebbe di per sé neanche un tema particolarmente originale, se non fosse che la semplicità spartana con cui Paasilinna descrive il ritorno alla natura, senza gli estremismi ascetici alla “Into the wild” ringiovanisce lo spirito come una Domenica coi boyscout.“L'anno della lepre” è un libro da pre-vacanza, ma non nel senso della leggerezza.
Nel senso della predisposizione a “staccare la spina” con più convinzione.
Un depliant dell'Alpitour non potrebbe fare tanto.Anche la lepre, che pur onnipresente, sembra quasi superflua ai fini della storia, alla fine si materializzerà nella vostra testa e non ne uscirà più.P.S. Cara Iperborea, come casa editrice sei uno schianto.
Kratka, iskrena, zanimljiva, kritična i zabavna knjiga. Pasalina je još jednom potvrdio da mi njegov stil pisanja poprilično prija i da često povlačim paralelu između njega i Erlenda Lua.Uživao sam čitajući ovu knjigu u prevozu od kuće do posla.
A couple of years ago I came upon a Norwegian bestseller just translated into English called Doppler by Erlend Loe. I loved that book and belly-laughed through much of it.
Norway's out-sized oil wealth among the populace in recent years makes Doppler all the more an anguished critique of the society.Anyway, the first time reading a book like this can be a revelation, so I recommend one of them at least.
Either book can be read in an evening, and the copy of The Year of the Hare that I had looked like someone had enjoyed it at the beach.
Arto Paasilinna sème sur le chemin de Vatanen des êtres loufoques, de doux fous, des histoires d'alcool et de violence : un homme ivre de fatigue, qui conduira son tracteur au milieu du lac, et y reste comme sur une île faute de savoir nager ; un débardeur qui ne savait pas nager, et qui apprend à nager pour apprendre à plonger, et qui apprend à plonger pour découvrir au fond de la rivière un trésor de canons abandonnés par l'armée nazie lors de la déroute ; des soldats, des diplomates, des femmes de diplomates qui veulent garder le lièvre.
Başlarda nasıl bir şeyle karşılaşacağımı bilmiyordum fakat kitabı okumaya başladığım zaman beni çok çabuk içerisine çekti.
Ve gerçekten okurken hayatımda öyle bir yaban tavşanı olmasını istedim.
Finlandiya’nın siyasi veya sosyal durumunu bilmediğim için okurken bazı şeyleri kaçırmış gibi hissettim.
Bunun dışında tamamiyle keyifle okuduğum bir kitap oldu.
Fotoğrafçı tavşanı umursamazken muhabir tavşanın peşine düşüyor ve kendini modern hayattan soyutlayacak bir hayat yaşamaya başlıyor.
Kitap bazı noktalarda bu yönüyle şehir hayatını çok güzel eleştiriyor.
Gerçekten hem keyif aldığım hem de pılımı pırtımı toplayıp kendimi köy hayatına vermek istediğim bir kitap oldu.
Keşke herkes Vatanen gibi küçük şeylerle mutlu olabilseydi.
My first Finnish novel was quite enjoyable, I liked the way the author describes the passing from the city life to the wilderness and the main character's difficulty to re-adjust to the "normal" life.
Also, beautiful scenes of country life, a way of life already in extinction even in Finland of the '70s.
The upcoming industrialization, the growth of the cities, even the final (symbolic to me) pursue of the bear across the borders are all well-drawn elements of the plot.
A good and well-written novel, although the translation was mediocre (why use "dollars" and "miles"?) and a very good chance to discover the literature of a country that is...
But the story wasn’t so simple, there was plenty more to come.Man and hare traveled together, encountering all manner of people.
The hare was too docile, too in thrall to the man, and I don’t think I wanted to believe that such a beautiful, secretive, wild animal could be pulled so easily into our human world.And that might be why The Year of the Hare was always a story I watched rather than a story I could become involved in.It was a book I could appreciate and admire, but I book I couldn’t quite love the way that I thought I might.
Ilustração de Arthur GironKaarlo Vatanen é um jornalista com cerca de 40 anos, cínico e infeliz, que viaja de carro na companhia de um fotógrafo.
O jornalista pegou na lebre aterrorizada, partiu um galho de um arbusto e fixou-o na pata, como uma tala, com a ajuda do lenço que rasgara em tiras.Com este gesto aparentemente “insignificante” Vatanen decide abandonar um trabalho rotineiro, um casamento falhado, uma vida citadina totalmente sedentária e desligar-se das desilusões e preocupações quotidianas - embrenhando-se numa densa floresta e transportando no bolso do casaco a “sua” lebre.
A quick read about a journalist who rescues a hare and spends a year wandering into whatever life has for him. I think it is supposed to be funny, except for me I don't think the humor really translates. I did like all the Finnish names and some of the characters, and it gave some insight into a government I don't know anything about."Even in an agreeable village, one can't hang around doing nothing forever.""Loving animals can be a heavy load."
They accidently hit a hare and Vatanen get out to find the injured animal.
Vatanen decides not to return to his life.
Vatanen has quite a few adventures and helps other animals.
He frequently meets the reindeer herders as they cross paths in the wilderness.
I enjoyed reading about the Finnish wilderness and Finland of the 1970s.
The book is an enjoyable read.
The author is a popular Finnish author and his books have been translated into 27 languages.I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible.
Simon Vance does an excellent job narrating the book.
A lovely tale. Really reminded me Paasilinna`s other work  The Howling Miller which I really liked (and was published several years after this novel). It didn't felt like he was using the same formula, more like he has a unique style. Will probably try more of his work.
A lovely tale. Really reminded me Paasilinna`s other work  The Howling Miller which I really liked (and was published several years after this novel). It didn't felt like he was using the same formula, more like he has a unique style. Will probably try more of his work.
Още в началото ме погълна, без да имам никакви очаквания.
Интересно ми беше да стигна с героя чак до Лапландия.
Написана увлекателно, вади чувства и търсения на повърхността, но с един духовит тон.
Естествено ме впечатли идеята в средата на живота си да зарежеш всичко и да тръгнеш с освободено сърце и без посоки в неизвестното.
Ощее по-интересно за мен беше самото пътешествие из разнолика и далечна Финландия, сред какви ли не хора от провинцията, с поредица от чудновати случки, весели моменти и препятствия.
Подобно пътешествие сякаш е възможно само из съседната необятна Русия.Почувствах се удовлетворена както при израза „Гледах хубаво европейско кино”.
Šī ir iespējams pirmā grāmata, ko lasu no somu literatūras (bet varbūt arī nē, jo pirms Goodreadiem un interneta bija vienkārši grāmatas, un kas to vairs visu lai atceras). Šī ir arī iespējams viena no tām grāmatām, kas ir vienkārši jāizlasa, lai nonāktu līdz savai atziņai par to visu, ko šai darbā var atrast. Un jā, iespējams, ka ceļot un meklēt kaut kādu dzīves jēgu Somijā ir daudz labāk un interesantāk kopā ar savvaļas zaķi.
