https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13206828-cress
“Have you given any thought to your wedding vows?” Kai snorted. “Delete anything that has to do with love, respect, or joy, and I’ll sign on the dotted line.” 3 1/2 stars. After I finally gave in and read Scarlet recently, people have been urging me to read Cress. I can see why - this book is so so much fun.Firstly, I have to say that Meyer has really worked on her pacing since the days of Cinder (which I personally found really boring). This book zips along from action scene, to discovery, to
It's not high literature, but it is pure enjoyment.In this book, we get to know Cress - a girl locked away by herself in a spaceship and based on the fairy tale character Rapunzel.
My sympathy for Kai and his unfortunate situation increases with every book, and I like Cinder more when she is not the sole focus of the story.
And I'd just like to say that there is something really exciting about the psychotic villains of this series (hence why I had to pick up Fairest right away).But mostly, I think I am just in love with Captain Thorne.
THIS BOOK DEFINITELY LIVED UP TO THE HYPE FOR ME. OH MY GAHHHHH. ACTION. ADVENTURE. MADNESS. BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY MY NEW SHIP: THORNE AND FREAKING CRESS. I LOVE THEM TOGETHER SO MUCH. AHHHH. (sorry not sorry for my not so professional review. ALL THE CAPS LOCK. ALL OF IT.)
CRESCENT SHORT FOR CRESS BY ANY CHANCE !That was not my only discovery but, we all know that the 4th book called Winter will be about Snow White.
So when I did read Cress I was in absolute awe on how much I loved it.
I particularly adored how Meyer made (view spoiler)[ Cress totally idealize Thorne.
(hide spoiler)] I could literally write an essay on every single character on why their magnificent and why I love them but...
Me reading all the swoon worthy romance bits  *cough cough Cinder and Kai cough cough*Me reading everything else (Also addressing my prediction (view spoiler)[ YES!
FAVE.May or may not be because of Thorne.(It totally is.)
4.5*Dannnnnnng that ending!!! I totally get why a lot of people say this is their favourite in the series, it's definitely mine!
“Even in the Future the Story Begins with Once Upon a Time.”  Once Upon a Time, there was an avid reader (let's call her Teri) who lived and breathed words. When she was sad, she bought a book to cheer her up. When she was happy or successful, she bought a book to celebrate. When she was worried, she bought a book to forget her problems. One cold winter's night, she found herself in a magical place known as the Bookstore. A place full of wonders and fairydust, a safe haven from a world so mund
And Cress' story reminded Teri so much of Disney's Tangled that she kept trying-and failed-to supress the urge to squeal (she will get angry if she finds out I told you this but she's watched Tangled more than five ten times).
When Cress crossed paths with the crew of Rampion and everything went to Hell, Teri wasn't sure whose story she wanted to follow the most: Kai's decent attempts to make peace with his painful but noble decision, Cress and Thorne's adventures in the desert, Scarlet's struggles to survive, or Cinder and Wolf's journey and their unlikely alliance with Jacin?
Maybe great, epic romances don't just happen. We have to make them ourselves. Fun, lighthearted and delightful.  I absolutely love how each book in this series is better than the last! As with the previous two, we have a  fairytale themed futuristic dystopian adventure. While each book follows a different couple, we get to catch up on the previous ones and get hints at the new. This one focuses on Cress (Rapunzel). She's a "Shell" (a Lunar who is immune to Lunar glamours). She's spent her entir
He's the daring and dashing hero - the defender of innocents, the savior of all things good and Cress is completely, and irrevocably enthralled.
Finally, Cress makes a harrowing break for freedom and much to her delight, she is accompanied by Captain Thorne.
"Maybe there's a little bit of a hero in me after all.
Hopefully they will be together a bit more later on...?Anyway, I really feel like Marissa Meyer has hit her stride in this series - the characters are fabulous, the banter is witty and the plot is just swimming along.
It’s action-packed, well plotted, and exciting!I should probably take this time to mention that if you haven’t read Cinder and Scarlet, 1) it’s time to re-examine your life choices 2) the rest of the review may contain slight spoilers for the first two books.
But you should know by now, that's just how I roll.The novel begins with the gang (Cinder, Thorne, Scarlet, Wolf, and Iko) on a mission to rescue Cress from her satellite.
Basically, Cinder is no Mary Sue and carries mistakes and flaws just like any other character in this series.Scarlet is not as present in Cress, but her role looks like it’ll be more important in the final installment, Winter.
“Her satellite made one full orbit around Planet Earth every sixteen hours. It was a prison that came with an endlessly breathtaking view— vast blue oceans and swirling clouds and sunrises that set half the world on fire.” What more can I possibly say about this series that I haven’t already mentioned in Scarlet and Cinder?! - That Marissa Meyer is an auto-buy author??  Check .- That her writing makes me feel everything??  Check .- That this world made me somehow enjoy its dystopian nature??  Ch
.- That I’M ATTACHED TO A CAST OF CHARACTERS LIKE THORNE AND CINDER AND CRESS AND IKO AND WOLF AND SCARLET AND KAI AND AND I NEED TO CALM DOWN??
Meanwhile, he hasn’t given up on trying to find Princess Selene as she could be the one to finally end Queen Levana’s tyranny.On the other hand, we have the squad (Thorne, Cinder, Iko, Scarlet and Wolf), who managed to escape Africa and fly to space using Thorne’s ship (the Rampion).
I remember Cress as the “satellite girl” from Cinder, as she was the one that warned Nainsi (Kai’s android) of Levana’s plan to rule Earth.
Yep, I'm going to talk about it because I may or may not have squealed aloud several times while reading this book.
They are easily one of my all time favorite ships.Cress herself is just so stinking cute.
This book was definitely action packed and full of fun surprises.
I did not expect her to take on a bigger role in this book - but she easily became one of my favorite characters!
So far all three books have been light and fun while still managing to get some pretty strong emotions out of me.
"When she was jut a child, the witch locked her away in a tower that had neither doors nor stairs."   BEFORE READING:Cinder?...and Rapunzel?...in a desert?...in 2014? Can life get any more depressing?!?!?! It sounds so interesting but also sooooo far away! I just read Scarlet and now I have to wait a whole year!!!!It's like....(was that the perfect gif or what?)Oh and Scarlet and Wolf better be there too or I'll just...I'll just: EXPLODE! In the mean time....UPDATE!!!!!The cover for these book
The crew of the Rampion is out in space thinking of ways to stop Levana’s wedding to Prince Kai and save the Earth when they finally make contact with Luna’s greatest hacker: Cress.
But he loved his wife very much and so with a pounding heart, he decided to go into the garden at a time when the witch was away.
All day long, when Rapunzel was alone, she would sing and weep.Every day, the wicked witch came to the tower with food.
The witch used the hair as a rope to climb into the tower.One day, a handsome prince was passing by and heard her sing.
im familiar with cinderella and little red riding hood, so it was easy to follow along with those loose retellings, but this book felt like a completely new story to me.
i mean, we now have six main characters, meaning six different POVs. i was so sure this book was going to be thinly spread across everyones stories, especially since they all part ways pretty early on.
not only did i feel like each character got an equal amount of page time, but the plot was nicely developed, the pacing was on point, and it was a great set-up for the next and final book.
Every single book in this series is FANTASTIC! Winter just became my most anticipated book of next year. I cannot wait to see how this series concludes!Full review to come :)
"Maybe there isn’t such a thing as fate.
Maybe it’s just the opportunities we’re given, and what we do with them."Stunning, heartbreaking, thrilling are just a few words to describe Cress.
This was such a good read, I had to put this book down a few times and just breath.
Obviously.One thing I really enjoyed was reading from Iko's POV, because reading what a robot thinks and "feels" is pretty uncommon and therefore even more interesting.In a nutshell: possibly my favourite in the series.Find more of my books on Instagram
for Prince to show up, and when he does, she flings him from the top of the tower, and briers scratch his eyes, BLINDING him, when he lands.Stuff happens and they live HEA.CRESS by Marissa Meyer is the RAPUNZEL--based third installment of the LUNAR CHRONICLES, and while I had no urges to throw or otherwise damage books in this reading, I did have to stifle an urge to throw or otherwise damage Cress (the MC, not the book).I’ll say up front--until around the 75% mark, Cress is downright A-N-N-O-Y-I-N-G.
Cinder (The Lunar Chronicles, #1)
Winter (The Lunar Chronicles, #4)
Re-Read on Audio. Still awesome and still loving this narrator. Beautiful fan art of Thorne and Cress ↓ "Captain?""Yeah?""Do you think it was destiny that brought us together?""No. I'm pretty sure it was Cinder." **Older Review**Wow!! I just finished Cress!! These books aways end with me thinking "You Didn't Just Stop There" !!! I loved meeting the new member of the storyline, Cresent Moon. What a beautiful name! Cress for short. I can't believe she lived on that satellite for so long! The Lunar
Re-Read on Audio.
Still awesome and still loving this narrator.
Beautiful fan art of Thorne and Cress ↓
"Captain?""Yeah?""Do you think it was destiny that brought us together?""No. I'm pretty sure it was Cinder."
I just finished Cress!!
These books aways end with me thinking "You Didn't Just Stop There" !!!
I loved meeting the new member of the storyline, Cresent Moon.
What a beautiful name!
Cress for short.
That's all I'm saying :-) A lot of sadness for Wolf.
Trauma to Captain Thorne.
A few deaths and a lot of coolness!
I can't wait to read Fairest and Winter!!
So the book starts out with a big bang.The gang (you know, Cinder, Scarlet, Wolf, Thorne and Iko) contacts Cress and realize she is a huge asset to their team because A: She's the one that has been hiding their spaceship from satellites and such, B: she knows their location and has been tracking them this whole time, C: She knows all about anything they have ever done that was recorded or stored somewhere, and D: She knows all about the Queen's plans, totally geeky when it comes to computer/tablet/portscreen/whatever it's technology.
She is dead set on the fact that her and Thorne are soulmates and are going to have an epic romance because he is so selfless and honorable and wonderful and gorgeous and pure-hearted (please stop laughing, let her live in her fantasy world).
honestly not sure whether I'd rather marry Cress or Thorne. so I'll settle for them marrying each otherreview to come / 4.5 stars---------I AM READY FOR JOY AND HIJINKS.and this was my favorite book in the series when I first read them, so if I do not get joy and hijinks I will be forced to burn everything to the ground.
REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I WILL REREAD THIS SERIES THIS YEAR  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE REVIEW IS POSTED Second Read Review :  "I'm not an expert by any means, but I know you didn't do anything wrong today. You shouldn't tell someone you love them unless you mean it." I think the first time I read this book, I wasn't paying much attention to the characters. I think I just focused on the story ( or maybe I focused most of my attenti
I think the first time I read this book, I wasn't paying much attention to the characters.
I think I just focused on the story ( or maybe I focused most of my attention on Wolf because I used to like him so much) so when I reread it, I felt ...
I mean, I felt like I knew them more after I read it for the second time, I found another personalities of some of the characters that I didn't even realize when I read it for the first time and I'm glad I reread it.
Okay so I'm going to be honest, I was a little bored with this one early on when it was just mostly Cress and Thorne wandering around the desert, but then HOLY CRAP this book got good!There was so much going on in this and it was so exciting and I just loved the way all the characters' story lines were all tied in with each other, and literally just this story is so gripping.
I love all of the characters.
And I am SO intrigued by Winters character!
She's like space Luna and I love it.
Cress is Rapunzel .
Scarlet is Red Riding Hood .
Cinder is Cinderella .
Wolf is the not so Big Bad Wolf .
Thorne is the charming scoundrel pilot (still picture Han Solo) .
It might be kinda cheesy from time to time, but I love me some brie!
:)Note on Thorne and Cress .
(view spoiler)[ per Wikipedia from the Rapunzel story regarding the prince who loves her: "he leaps from the tower in despair and is blinded by the thorns below"  (hide spoiler)] it all makes so much sense now!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Also right after Thorne there is my baby wolf ♥️ his love for Scarlet is everything and it’s so freakin cute.
I really liked that she was getting stronger with her lunar gifts and that she knew how to plan things but also how it was time to trust other people with their experiences and ideas.
All in all I really liked the characters of the book.
We have to make them ourselves.”  Like I said in my review for the first and second book: there is always this heartwarming cute and lovely romance that will make your heart ache and warm and ugh.
Fricken hell, has anyone been waiting on this (probably not) but if you have I want to apologize for my existence Now it aint no secret that I’m super-extra-trash-with-trash-on-top for this series, but honestly, these books are SO GOOD.
This was a huge deal for me, because slow pace and a long way to go, make me bored.
The main issue for me was that its predecessors were so good that the slight difference in this book made a huge difference for me!So now to all the great things about this book.
I think I was still majorly hooked on scarlet and wolf, so all through out the book, I was just waiting for the parts that wolf and Scarlett story is told.
I also have a peculiar yet healthy curiosity about princess winter, I mean like literally not being able to wait to see what her story is.
Eeeeeee my love for this series just increased 10 fold with this book! The audiobook is excellent, I would highly recommend it.
4.5 stars "Because if there was one thing Cress knew about heroes, it was that they could not resist a damsel in distress. And she was nothing if not in distress." Cress isn't the type of character I usually like. She's naive, obsessed with grand destined love, frets about not having been kissed while possibly dying. Yet strangely all these things only serve to make her more endearing and charming. In my first read of the Lunar Chronicles, Cress was the book that made me fall head-over-heels in
In my first read of the Lunar Chronicles, Cress was the book that made me fall head-over-heels in love with the series.
Cress builds up an unhealthy idealistic image of Thorne at first, but she slowly begins to get to know the real Thorne and really falls in love with him in the process.
(It's always fucking Cinder, which destroyed the first book for me and almost made me give up on the series) (view spoiler)[Why didn't she just straight out tell Kai she's princess Selene when she was kidnapping him?
This series is mostly about the characters—Scarlet and Wolf, Cinder and Kai, Cress and Thorne, always.
But it's been about a year since I last read this, so I'll just go over the stuff that stuck with me...I love retellings, but will admit that most of them are pretty weak.
I'll still read them and like them all because they're retellings, but there are very few I actually love.
Cress is the Rapunzel character who has been imprisoned in a satellite for years, so her hair is absolutely everywhere.
Thorne becomes a way stronger character in this book and is pretty much Nikolai Lantsov's twin.
buddy reading with my famoose best friend and my sappy loveri'm convinced cress is an embodiment of all of us on this website sitting at her computer all day longi don't write reviews anymore soz mate but pls read this series
Cinder was my first read after a bit of a book flump and I thought it was okay, I read Scarlet and fell in love, and now I've read Cress i'm already itching to read Winter.To begin with I didn't really know what to think about this book, particularly when it was Cress and Thorne walking in a dessert, I thought here we go, lots of filler scenes.
I missed Scarlet, and I kind of didn't like the fact that wolf was either just zoned out, or being controlled.I want to know more about Jacin I can't really comment on him, he's quite mysterious, and I'm pretty sure I'll be seeing more of him in Winter.Is it bad how much I like Levana and Sybil as the bad Characters?
After just finding out that "Cress" stands for "Crescent", this is what is running through my head:Sorry but this book just dragged on and on. I get that the author is trying to pull multiple POVs together now into one story, but it was very stop/start when done in the same scene. I didn't care very much for this entry in the series. I was so bored with this one that I have very little to say about the dry plot.
