https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77619.The_Second_Confession
Zeck is of course displeased, and soon nobody or no thing--not even Wolfe's precious orchids--is safe.
Mercifully, the two masterminds soon come to share an interest in discovering a murderer, and so their battle to the death must wait until In the Best Families, Stout's next book.
The plot is rich and diverse, involving Agatha Christie style scenes in Westchester, sudden bursts of machine gun fire, and the 1948 Henry Wallace for President campaign.
And the plot twist that gives this book its title is both clever and satisfying.
A millionaire asked Nero Wolfe to get a proof his daughter's boyfriend is a member of US Communist Party (we are talking about McCarthyism era here when people were afraid of Communists - replaced by terrorists these days - and were sure they eat babies for breakfast).
Nero Wolfe - or Archie Goodwin to be exact - soon finds the needed proof, but the great detective will shortly have to use his abilities in his preferred area of crime - murders.
As usual, Archie's witticism and his interactions with Nero Wolfe shine.
I just can't get enough Nero Wolfe. I may mourn when I've completed the series.New York City, 1949
I’ve been reading the Archie Goodwin mysteries (as I call them because it's the quality of Archie’s narration, not Wolfe’s deductive skills or idiosyncrasies that make the series great) at a rate of about two per year for some time, and I'm up to the 15th book.
Unlike his model, Dr. Watson, whom Conan Doyle keeps clueless as a narrative device to allow Holmes to narrate important explanations, Archie is smart as a whip and usually knows what Wolfe is thinking.
Finally, the book, written in 1949 during the first freeze of the Cold War, takes as a plot device person(s) secretly being a member of the Communist Party and going lengths to keep this concealed.
The Second Confession, however, breaks from form by sending Wolfe out his office—-for awhile at least.Hired by the owner of a mining company to prove that the man his daughter is dating is a Communist, Wolfe is accidentally drawn into the sphere of Arnold Zeck, an underworld kingpin (and the only man Wolfe fears.) Zeck’s idea of sending a message is having one his goons machine gun $40,000 worth of damage into the detective’s orchid garden.
another adventure for Archie and Wolfe. Although this time Wolfe leaves the brownstone
For posterity (because everything one writes on the internet is here forever and ever) I'd like to say the person who vandalized the Delray Beach City Library copy of "Second Confession" by Rex Stout is a 'lousy' person.
Today, I think an author would blatantly have Paul making the moves on Webster Kane (family friend), or perhaps on Sperling's third off-spring, the good-for-nothing James Jr. Nero has his own, personal investigative team and I like the way Stout describes them.
because he took whole heads and ate them bones and all', suspects that his youngest daughter is dating a communist, so he hires Nero Wolfe to produce the evidence.Louis Rony may or may not be a communist, but as Wolfe soon discovers, if he is then that would be the least of his crimes.
Much worse than that suspected affiliation is his connection with the only criminal Wolfe fears, his very own Moriarty - Arnold Zeck.Wolfe's path had tangentially crossed Zeck's once before, resulting in a stern warning to the corpulent detective from the criminal underground's Mr. X.
I have always felt very noncomformist and clever for my notion that Archie is the interesting detective and Nero is the worst part of the Nero Wolfe books, so it was bracing to read in the introduction that, really, everybody thinks that. Well, the Wolfe books are what they are. I'm not especially proud of liking them, but I do. This is a good one.Note: I read it on my phone, which is unusual for me. It worked pretty well.
It's rather hard to believe that, following publication of this book, Rex Stout was accused of communist activity.
Facts in the matter: Rex Stout helped to found the magazine, and contributed some articles, but was never an editor.
No wonder Rex Stout ended up fighting against McCarthyism.One side note: if you like reading these in chronological order (not usually necessary, but better with the Zeck trilogy) it's helpful to read the short story "Door to Death" before reading this.
Stout reminds the reader (as he does in every book) of Wolfe's rigid schedule, particularly regarding the 4-6 pm session with the orchids.
I loved, loved, loved every minute of this mystery.Mr. Sperling hires Wolfe as a private detective "to prove" that his daughter's boyfriend is a communist.
Wolfe is reluctant to take on a case with those terms.
He argues that what Sperling desires is not proof that this Louis Rony is a Communist, instead what he wants is his daughter to end things with him, period, Communist or not.
Wolfe agrees to take the case on his own terms.
Yes, Rony ends up dead, apparently run over by a car in the Sperling driveway.
It was a lot more exciting than most of Wolfe's cases.
However, I've read it once and a half, and listened to it once, and it just isn't his best work.
I know Stout and Wolfe both became more political over the years (see also A Right to Die and a couple of others in the series) but something just seemed to be missing this time around--not least, Archie's interactions with Fritz.
He mentions meals but not in detail; most of the time Goodwin isn't even around at mealtime in brownstone, or simply has a sandwich in the kitchen, but no conversations to speak of.
The spark and the sparkle were missing, in spite of Archie and Saul actually working together a couple of times.
I would give this one 4.5 stars if I could, just because the plot was a bit too convoluted to follow easily, but it gains back that half a star for enjoyable insights into the Wolfe/Goodwin relationship.
I think the parts of the book dealing with Zeck were actually more entertaining than most of the rest, although Archie's new love interest turned out to be surprisingly fun .
We don't often get to see Archie's former flames again (because so many of them die), but I hope Madeline comes back in future stories.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who likes twisty-turny plots and Archie Goodwin's sass.
He kept me guessing right until the end. So many suspects, so many red herrings, and it really could have been anybody! I like how that frustrates the detectives as much as it frustrated me as reader. Lots of great Archie Goodwin moments in this one!Though it doesn't usually matter in what order you read these books, I got the feeling that it would have helped if I'd read And Be A Villain first, as it refers heavily to events that took place in that book. Even without the background, I was still able to completely enjoy this volume, though!
I found it difficult to become involved in this one. Perhaps had the story had more velocity. Things didn't feel like a good old Nero Wolfe mystery until the second half, and it seemed that even Archie's part was a bit subdued. Stout wrote enough winners to justify one that I felt only so-so about for me to remain a fan that will continue reading these delightful old mysteries.
Anti-Communism is not good literatureStout is too much the servant of mindless cold war ideology. Very disappointing read. Poor plotting and weak character development.
Much like a classic Nero Wolf book there is a twist in the end with everyone sitting in his office. This time I didn’t have a clue until the name was on the page. That said I wasn’t really sure how it came to be in this one. I felt like this one had some leaps or lost sections. It was hurried at best.
Not one of my favorite Nero Wolfe books. It got almost a little draggy in the middle, which I do not expect from these books and was surprised to find. Still, time spent with Archie and Wolfe is always enjoyable, and I did like it over all :-)
Continuing my read through the Nero Wolfe series. This is the second book in which the mysterious Mr. Zeck appears. Wolfe's is hired to expose a communist and suffers a major blow at the hands of Z. Lots of reverses and interesting moments in this one.
Stout really hit his stride by this time. I gave this one an extra star just because I saw the ending coming (at just the right point--not because it was totally predictable!), and so I felt clever, too.
The second book in the Zeck Trilogy. Arnold Zeck is Nero Wolfe's counterpart to Sherlock Holmes' Moriarty. This story is notable for the fact that homebody Wolfe actually leaves his house to investigate a case, something he hardly ever does.
Actually found Archie rather grating in this one: too many mentions of how women over age 30 are over the hill and too much claptrap about Communists. It is one of the Zeck books, however, so I'll keep it around.
Great story, although there's a very marked focus on Communism which is such a mainstay of the late 40s and 50s that dates the story.
Audiobook performed by Michael Prichard
Ba Da Bing!! Another great Nero Wolfe novel. All I can say is read/listen to them.
Better than average Nero Wolfe. Less convoluted and obsessive than some.
By Nero Wolfe standards: average.
Involves organized crime and OC gives me the willies.
Excellent book. Great characters and story.
Another outstanding Nero Wolfe book! Poor Archie gets dragged around a bit, and the ending really got me. They just get better and better!
