https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9298.Last_Chance_Saloon
I cannot understand how this book is getting such rave reviews.
I mean, this is a BIG book - 600 pages - for a story that could have been cut down to about 270-300 pages!
I could not wrap my head around all the chapters that I could've literally torn right out of the book and still had a complete, full story intact.
I do not recommend this book to anyone, and I am disappointed at the amount of rave reviews it's gotten that fooled me into buying it and wasting my time.
I've read all of Marian Keyes' novels now, and I have to say that this might be her best yet.
Watermelon was great, Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married a bit disappointing, Rachel's Holiday mildly depressing and frustrating, but Last Chance Saloon had me hooked.
The book really is a clever look at how easily one can become complacent, how easy it is to settle or simply float through life.
The novel was a perfect mix of having something worthwhile to say about life and being immensely readable -- I oftentimes have the feeling that most books make me choose between substance and pleasure.

I fell in love with the main characters in this book and really just wanted them to have nothing but good things.Even though this book is supposed to be about three best friends since child/teenage years Tara, Fintan, and Katherine.
Most of the book devotes itself to Tara and Katherine's lives and how Fintan's health problems end up impacting both of them to do things that they never thought they would.Last Chance Saloon comes from a saying that Tara always says when it is brought up that she should leave her horrible boyfriend Thomas.
I really think Katherine is not up there with my favourite Keyes characters, as is the lovely Fintan (which makes the usual heartbreaking plot-line of the book even more heartbreaking).
I thought Keyes did a fairly good job, most particularly with the friend's and family's reactions and support of Fintan throughout.
Again, the characters' flaws show up hugely, but so do their strengths, just as in real life.
The banter between friends was hilarious, and I suppose my only disappointment with this book is that I left it with very little more than I came to it with.
Still, a worthy little read for summer, especially if you happen to already be a Keyes fan.
I am so happy that I'm finished with this book!!
I love Marian Keyes but this book left me with an agonizing desire to throw it across the room!
But I was determined to finish it no matter what.
I just couldn't get into this story.
Perhaps, it was just too long and therefore, became quite boring.
Or perhaps, it was because I couldn't seem to like the characters, with the possible exception of Tara.
I liked that, so that's something positive.
Something that's even more positive....the book is FINISHED!!!
Cue music while I do my happy dance:)
No lo he podido terminar. No he podido con él. No puedo con los personajes ni lo que se cuenta de ellos y me ha parecido super aburrido.
But of course MK is ALWAYS entertaining.But Last Chance Saloon is actually different.
I knew it was cancer immediately when there was some talk about some lump in Fintan’s neck, and I didn't like the way the book was going.
Cancer and MK don't go together, cos MK-books always end happily.
Well, actually Fintan wasn’t definitely cured at the end after all.
Sometimes I actually thought that wasn't the book ever going to end.
Last Chance Saloon was very good to read beside all the schoolbooks I’m reading for the matriculation examination!
I think I’m going to read some more MK straight away!
This was another Marian Keyes book that I liked the sound of and was looking forward to reading.Straight away I got a sense of fun from the main characters, they had a great friendship and were comfortable and relaxed in each others company.
I think I’ll have to re-read this at some point because now I can look at it from a different perspective.Fintan becoming ill meant that there were quite a few heart-wrenching moments but these were balanced out by some very funny moments, for example a disastrous mud wrap adventure for Tara that is not to be missed!A surprise twist near the end pieced everything together and it was something that I hadn’t seen coming which made it even more interesting to read.This is an enjoyable book that really makes you see things in a different way.
Another story for me where I couldn't connect with the characters.
Keyes is very skilful at drawing pictures of relationships and I did feel the friendship of these people but I didn't care enough about them.
Even the guy I should really have felt sorry for was so obnoxious at times that I wanted to slap him.
Tara - also needed a slap.
But maybe that's showing what a good job the novelist did.
If she makes you see you don't have to put up with that sort of behaviour from a guy, then she's done some good.
But Tara took the whole book almost to see it.
So I got this book and many others as a gift from my supervisor at work, for performing greatly, 'call me lucky!' lol. Of all the seven novels she gave me, this was my first read and I was blown away by it intense humor, yet very deep and emotional. I love all the characters and I remember thinking about the book while driving to work and burst out laughing. I enjoyed every bit of it, my very first Marian Keyes book, and now I can't wait to read her other novels. Such a fun read! :)
We first meet them in a restaurant, where they come across as being fashion-obsessed, neurotic, unhappy people in a London setting that has no real appeal to me at all!However, knowing how much I've enjoyed this author before, I decided to give it another go and it did get a lot better.
Of course, there are happy endings all round, except for the ultra bad guy who gets just what he deserves.I can't say this was my favourite Keyes book, but once I'd got so far with the book, I did start to enjoy it.
This book had a bit different feel to it than other books by Marian. Some prominent issues are dealt with that I hadn't otherwise noticed in other books she's written so I found her voice in new situations interesting and multi-faceted. Not my favorite Marian novel, but I'd still recommend or gift this book to any of my friends!
What a great read. Classic chick-lit with something every reader can relate to. I must say though that I would’ve enjoyed it more without the cameo’s of peripheral characters and a bit more of a rounded-off finish! But as they say...one can’t get everything one wants all the time!
Marian es maravillosa.
Took this to the lake with me looking for some light beach-reading. I got through the first chapter and wanted to toss it in the lake. Borrowed my husbands book of essays on sports and music because even reading about junior college basketball games from the 1980's was better than this.
Dan menurut aku, buku ini bagus, karena gak hanya sekedar haha-hihi and talking about sex, tapi juga tentang sebuah sahabat yang selalu ada dalam saat senang dan sedih.Para tokoh ini buku ini ada Tara, Katherine, Liv dan Fintan.
“Siapa yang mau dengan cewek berumur tiga puluhan?” begitu pikir Tara.Sementara Katherine, dijuluki si Ratu Es. Karena sikapnya yang dingin sama semua cowok.
Ketika ada cowok keren, anak baru di kantornya, Joe Roth, yang memperhatikannya, Katherine mencoba tetap bersikap dingin, meskipun dalam hatinya dag-dig-dug.Lalu, Liv… Liv punya hubungan gelap dengan pria yang sudah punya istri.
And another Marian Keyes book I read but not registered.On Thursday, July 28, 2005 I wrote on bookcrossing.com8 out of 10Hi LauralooThis book was so hard for me to get into.Didn't know why.
anyway I had tried to read it twice.
Both times I'd read 10 pages and then I received another book and stopped reading this one.Well third time lucky.
it was 01.00 am and I was alone in the house (Glad for that!) screaming with laughter.Love the Irish family of Finton, and the mudd bath of tara :-)I have read about 450 pages and still nearly 150 to go.Hooray!!!
And the only reason I'm going to write a journal entry on this one is because it's getting in a box with some magazines to go to an American in Japan.Back to the journal entry on this book -- I have several spots marked, so let's see if I can remember what I marked!I don't know why I marked page 70, but I hated Thomas from the beginning.
. .The only consolation lay in looking at sexy, funky shoes.
Shoes still looked beautiful when all else had gone to hell in a handbasket.I did like this book, and found the dialog very entertaining.
Tara, Fintan and Katherine have been good friends for a long time ever since they were teenagers in Ireland.
Katherine who was heart broken from a past relationship keeps her single life organized and is happy being single.
Fintan is in a long term serious relationship and the two of them are happy together.
When Fintan is diagonsed with cancer he gives both Tara and Katherine an ultimatum that causes the two of them to reevaluate their own lives.
Through flashbacks we learn about Katherine’s past and the trio’s friendship from a long time ago.
Critique complète sur mon blog Tara, Katherine et Fintan sont copains depuis des années. Ils ont quitté ensemble l’Irlande et leurs familles respectives pour venir s’installer à Londres et vivre à fond leur vie de trentenaires. Alors que Tara la romantique s’enfonce dans une relation vouée à l’échec avec l’affreux Thomas, Katherine l’éternelle célibataire envoie balader tous les prétendants potentiels. Mais tous ces soucis leur semblent soudain bien triviaux, quand elles apprennent que Fintan e
Tara, Katherine et Fintan sont copains depuis des années.
Alors que Tara la romantique s’enfonce dans une relation vouée à l’échec avec l’affreux Thomas, Katherine l’éternelle célibataire envoie balader tous les prétendants potentiels.
Mais tous ces soucis leur semblent soudain bien triviaux, quand elles apprennent que Fintan est atteint d’un cancer et qu’il obtient d’elles une étrange dernière promesse…Une jolie histoire, pure chick lit, pleine d’humour et de bons sentiments sur l’amitié, l’amour et la maladie.
Quelques longueurs, mais on passe un très bon moment.
Suivez-moi sur Facebook pour être informés des nouveaux articles
This book was like that for me, but because I just wanted to get it over with.
The bar was set pretty high because I've heard such great things about Marian Keyes.
Sometimes they were so stupid that it was painful to read, and I didn't even feel like cheering for any of them (other than Fintan).
The storyline was also VERY slow...no suspense, no moment that made my heart race and kept me up all night reading.
I'll probably read another Marian Keyes book sometime because of all the hype and great praise she's gotten.
This story is all about making the most of your time and not wasting your life.
Tara is so afraid of being alone and Katherine can't get over her past, and both have to be forced into making a change in their life so they can find happiness.
I liked the contrast of the stability of Fintan and Sandro's relationship, though I thought it was heartbreaking that Sandro had to go through all he did for a second time.
I found it interesting the way Lorcan's story would pop up throughout the book, even though he doesn't really figure in until right at the end - personally, I think that karma let him off easy.
The more I read, the more I love. Excellent! As engaging as Sushi for Beginners this is another ensemble story about three best friends and their lives and loves. I literally could not put it down. I just wanted to know what happened! I really liked the characters of Tara and Katherine, and their back stories and that although everyone didn't end up happily ever after, the potential to be happy was there. I'm on to another Walsh book, the last because she hasn't written one about Helen yet. Looking forward to more!
This is my personal favourite from Keyes. One that I return to often when I'm lacking any new material to wet my appetite. Its got a few little twists and turns as all Keyes books do. I found the characters so likeable, though I do wish that Fintan was developed a little more, his story line was probably the weakest for me of the three. Still its a good laugh, a little teary if you are having a particularly weak day and a little saucy. All in all a pleasant read over and over again.
Fabulous book! I Read it in almost one sitting and stayed up to finish it. The characters you could relate to or connect to even if and when you didn't particularly like them.The book follows the life of 3 friends and jumps back and forward every now and again from the present to events that shaped who they are today.Funny, sad and even cringe worthy at some points but a total fantastic light read, I loved it 5/5 for me.
Wow, this book was terrific! it was funny and full of humanity. The main character is supper cool, and she has a great circle of friends, except it is also a bit sad as one of her friends is terminally ill. Anyway, its a beautifully written book that will keep you glued to each page. It's one of the best books I've read.
It was frustrating at times - wanted to shake Lucy and say "he's no good for you - he's just like your father!" But then obviously the book would have ended 200 pages earlier - and I suppose we all have to make our own mistakes. Funny as only Marian Keyes can be though - not the obvious funny - but the sarcastic-to-the-hilt funny.
This book was definitely a page-turner. It's chick-lit, but it's about Irish people living in London, so I wasn't embarrassed to read it in public. I loved the character of Tara, who is a bit like an Irish Bridget Jones. I think we can all relate to her. Thanks, Katy!
Este ha sido el único libro que he leído de Marian Keyes, y aunque no fue una lectura tan mala, no voy a repetir. No sentí nada mientras leía esta novela, y el chick lit me parece un género de lo más frustrante.
