https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565355.Dionysus
If you've already read Euripides' "Bacchae," some of Otto's research and findings will be familiar to you, albeit much more contextualized and grounded in academia.
If not, than read Euripides afterwards for an excellent tragedy that perfectly encapsulates the full range of the Dionysian.
It's quite a treat for 21st century readers of the play to be able to study the complex and interesting background of a greek god and then read a play wherein the full spectrum of that god's characteristics are manifested in an intriguing plot and a horrifying conclusion.
It's like reading a psych book on dreams before watching "Inception," or researching Eastern religion before watching "The Matrix." It just makes the dramatic treatment much more sublime.
The gold-standard work for understanding the origin of Dionysus and the permutations of his myth and cult of worship. Much referenced in mythopoetic fiction, Dionysus is a complex, evolving god; one of the very first of the persecuted, suffering and dying gods of the ancient near east. Seeking a deeper background for understanding ancient near east thought which underlies some of the historical fiction and comparative mythology I enjoy, I found it here.
That was fun! Bit disjointed but otherwise a good time.
At his conception the earthly was touched by the splendor of divine heaven.
But in this union of the heavenly with the earthly, which is expressed in the myth of the double birth, man’s tear-filled lot was not dissolved but preserved, rather, in sharp contrast to superhuman majesty.
He who was born in this way is not only the exultant god, the god who brings man joy.
He is the suffering and dying god, the god of tragic contrast.
Life becomes suddenly an ecstasy—.I LOVE MY MAN EATING SON.
An interesting read--the translation is clumsy in the places but the ideas are, for the most part, clear (except in the introductory theorizing on the ideas of myth and cultus, which was so confusing I don't even know what else to say about it).
It's refreshing so see someone take Dionysus so seriously, as he's often dismissed as a drunken reveler and simple rustic god of wine and orgies.
Otto's dissection of the deity is sometimes repetitive, but provides a solid foundation for further study.
Clearly not intended for amateur classicists but still good reading for anyone with an abiding interest in the cult of Dionysus.
Walter Otto's study has weathered well. It remains more than forty years later a certain place to start in understanding the ancient Dionysus Cult. Important reading for someone wanting to better grasp what early Christians faced in Roman Asia.
This is an extraordinary book. Prof. Otto attempts to look at Dionysus as the object of Greek religious devotion rather than simply as a functional "vegetation god" or "god of wine." He avoided the reductionist approach of many other classicists and tried to tease out the "personality" of the god and show how it manifested itself in all his attributes. The book is not without flaws, (sometimes the reader is not sure whether Prof. Otto is describing genuine ancient Greek beliefs or his own!), but the attempt is so audacious and enlightening I had to give it five stars.
puthhhhhhhhhhh, grecian mythology has always been my cup of tea.
In fact I had a good friend named Gretchen who I was rather fond of, and Gretchen and grecian are reather close in sound, but thats beside the rather obvious stupendously stupid point.
You see, smeagol has really changed the way I live my life.
Now, why would I bring smeagol into this?
Well, you see, smeagol was in fact a heavy drinker, and had quite the relationship with dionysus, but in the end, smeagol was able to escape the evil clutches of that horrid "god" or "oafman" that meeee had bad thoughts of dionysus.
I enjoyed this book a great deal but it is not light reading.
It also helps if you know something about Dionysus before you read it, as this is a scholarly work on the god and assumes you have some knowledge of him already.
I learned a lot but stayed a bit confused throughout.
Now that I've finished it, however, I feel I have a good context for further reading about Dionysus.
If you love Greek mythology, check this one out.
Dionysus is a rather unusual character, being a god of dual natures and also the god of ecstasy and madness.
So far (a few chapters in), it seems very dense, difficult to read, and academic -- though it does contain interesting concepts, I get the feeling that I would benefit from those concepts infinitely more if I had the context of an elaborate and extensive Greek History education to connect it with. Shibboleths and topically-specific terminology are used extensively. I'll keep plugging through and see how it goes.
This was a very enjoyable and informative book. It is broken up into easy to deal with chapters and fully cited. There is passion here behind the words written. This is not dry academic writing at all even though it is a scholarly work. I really liked this book and learned a lot from it. I highly recommend reading this if you are interested at all in Dionysus.
A "must read" for people interested in the subject.
