https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34726469-sky-in-the-deep
I might be lying about this, but here's hoping I can restrain myself.The thing is, Sky in the Deep feels like one more in a long line of shallow and emotionless fantasies.
The whole book lacks character complexity or depth.Sky in the Deep opens with its strongest chapter.
A bloody action scene ends on a cliffhanger: Eelyn believes she sees her dead brother fighting for the enemy clan.
Next thing you know, Eelyn has been kidnapped by said enemy clan, the Riki, or more specifically, by her future love interest.
I LOVE badass girls, don't get me wrong, but it seems every book is throwing us a hard heroine who wants to cut down a bunch of people and not apologize for it, and they often have no heart or redeeming qualities.
I loved everything about her.Eelyn is a warrior who has lost her mother and her brother due to wars with rival clans.
It leaves her wondering whether or not she hallucinated him.I won't spoil anything else, so I'll just say what happens next results in Eelyn ending up in the hands of the rival clan.
To know that you may have just read a new classic that will allow for more stories about Vikings to be published in the future?To my surprise, it is more character-driven than action-driven.
By being taken from her group as she was fighting the enemy, she believes she has lost her honour in the eyes of her God. It is imperative that she recuperates it, otherwise she will not be allowed access to the afterworld.
I was happy to be reading a standalone YA fantasy novel, as those are fairly rare, but now that I finished it and loved it, I want more.
This definitely wasn't what I thought the book was going to be but I loved it all the same.
But the thing is, you need to read this book for yourself!
Read YOUR own damn books!!
AND, I'm pretty much just going to say the book wasn't for me or not say anything.
I'm not going to tear apart books (which is pointless and stupid) I just want to love and like what I read.
Waste your time on things you might love!
Me, I loved the hell out of this book!
Happy Reading!
ARC provided by St. Martin’s Press in exchange for an honest review.  “…the last time I saw my brother was five years ago. Lying dead in the snow.”  Sky in the Deep is a debut, standalone, young adult fantasy novel that stars two different Viking clans. But this is a story about betrayal, then survival, then a choice. You all, I really enjoyed this one. I thought it was unique, well written, and has some amazing characters. Our main protagonist, Eelyn, has lived the last five years mourning her
But this book starts out five years later, with a brand new battle, yet Eelyn sees her brother, Iri, before her very eyes.
Eelyn doesn’t even know how to process what she is seeing, especially being on the opposite side of the battlefield with her presumed dead brother, who was once her fighting partner.
I also love the sibling relationship between Eelyn and Iri. In general, I’m always a sucker for books about siblings who unconditionally love each other, but this story had such a unique twist and dynamic, I absolutely loved unfolding the mystery behind what happened five years ago.
But in the time she spends with the Riki she is struck by how similar the life of the Aska and Riki are and subconsciously begins to realise that her opinion on the Riki was misconceived.Watching her grow to understand why and how her brother had accepted the Riki as his family and grew to love him opens our eyes to how much weight love had in leading us to open mindedness.
No words can explain how much I loved this book.But I will give it a try.  “Ond Eldr.Breathe Fire.”  Sky in the Deep is a Viking-inspired tale, following the steps of Eelyn, a fierce and devoted warrior. Her clan, the Aska, worship the god Sigr and, according to his will, they fight their enemies, the Riki, the ones who worship the goddess Thora, every five years. This ancient blood feud has filled the hearts of the Riki and the Aska with ingrained hatred, but the fates of the two people are int
I read Eelyn's story with a deep reverence, I felt humble before the magnitude of Adrienne's soulful, poetic writing, and her rare ability to bring words and sentences to life, to make you absorb images, smells, sounds, and feelings as if they were your own.
The enemies-to-lovers romance made my soul sing with its beauty, it intensified the story without overshadowing it, it started as a sparkle and turned into a conflagration that enveloped me in its warmth.Sky in the Deep is a stunning debut, a bloody saga and an ode to love, family and friendship.
This was not the “Viking” book I was eagerly awaiting to read and in fact, the only thing Viking about this was pretty much the setting and that’s where it stops.
This book is incredibly safe and feels overly recycled.
The plot is predictable and each character plays their respective clichéd role down to the bone.
You know exactly how they’re going to act and react to any given situation because they’re all characters we’ve seen and continue to see.
The plot centres around a ‘Viking warrior’ girl who finds out her dead brother is in fact alive and she’s angry and feels betrayed.
Wow, this story gets going right from the start.
But I reallllly appreciate that her character and personality are SO much more than simply "fierce."I'll admit I put this one off for a bit and didn't get to it until around Christmas because I kind of maybe judged it by the cover.
I LOVE stories about Vikings, but was a bit hesitant that a YA take on that might result in an empty, ruthless MC who just wants brutal revenge and to kill everyone around her blah blah etc.
It felt a bit like Bernard Cornwell's Saxon Chronicles except tamer/less violent??
I love learning about how Iri goes from being dead to living with the enemy.
I enjoyed reading about Eelyn and Fiske and watching the relationship slowly blossom.
This girl is really emotional and cries a lot but she is also a warrior who would slowly pull out the eye of her enemy to get him to talk (yeh, that happened) What I didn’t like - I think the only thing that stopped this from being a full 5 was that the last battle was a bit rushed.
Wow, this review is so overdue, and I’m so sorry for that—I think I honestly completely forgot that I hadn’t reviewed it yet, but it’s been a full two months since I read this book! That said, it was enjoyable enough that it stuck with me pretty well, so… let’s do the thing!   “Vegr yfir fjor. Honor above life.” First of all, let me say that I went into this book feeling cautiously optimistic; the synopsis didn’t completely sell me, and I was a little bit worried that it would be one of those su
Wow, this review is so overdue, and I’m so sorry for that—I think I honestly completely forgot that I hadn’t reviewed it yet, but it’s been a full two months since I read this book!
That said, it’s swoon-worthy in its own way, and I’m such a sucker for these characters that look like big, scary tough guys on the outside but end up being gushy teddy bears inside, so if you feel me on that, you’ll probably appreciate Eelyn’s love interest just as much as I did.
The Review is Posted!   "Qnd eldr."They were words I'd heard before. Breathe fire.   I admit that the first reason I read this book was because I knew there would be enemies to lovers and  I FUCKING LOVE ENEMIES TO LOVERS TROPE, LIKE I LOVE IT SO MUCH.  So me being a fan of enemies to lovers thought that I had no reason not to read the book and the synopsis of the book didn't sound bad. It sounded intriguing and the kind of story that maybe I would love but I was wrong. I mean, the book wasn't b
So me being a fan of enemies to lovers thought that I had no reason not to read the book and the synopsis of the book didn't sound bad.
I mean, the book wasn't bad but it wasn't good either or maybe I thought this way because I had high expectations before reading the book.
Most of the time when I read, I just read and I didn't really feel any emotions and what kept me from not dnfing it was that the plot was not bad and it was pretty good and I wanted to know how it ended.
RUTHLESS VIKINGS, ancient rivalries, falling for the enemy and strong has hell female and male characters.   WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED?💘 “We find things, just as we lose things. If you’ve lost your honor, you’ll find it again.” I'm surprised with this book, I expected to enjoy it but not as much as I did.The story is original and intriguing.This book was an action-packed gift. SO MANY FIGHTS, there was never a dull moment in this, and there was also a lot of heartbreaking moments.The characters we
I'm surprised with this book, I expected to enjoy it but not as much as I did.The story is original and intriguing.This book was an action-packed gift.
SO MANY FIGHTS, there was never a dull moment in this, and there was also a lot of heartbreaking moments.The characters were very believable, with their feelings, confusion and mistrust.
It was slow and then fast.
They are really cute together and its been some time since I read about a cute couple.I really liked the writing style, easy and fast to read.I'm definitely reading more of this author.
‘Vegr yfir fjor. Honour above life.’ On paper, Sky in the Deep sounds like everything I would want in a book: historical fiction, vikings, and an enemies-to-lovers relationship (I’m such a sucker for this trope, not gonna lie). However, I felt that the execution ultimately failed. The writing was mediocre, the phrasing sometimes awkward and clunky, and the worldbuilding was barely present. Although Sky in the Deep never lacked for action, there was little substance or depth backing this. The fa
The love interest, especially, is one of the blander and more boring characters I’ve read about in the recent past, and if you asked me to list off his motives or personality traits, I’d probably struggle to come up with any.The romance felt artificially manufactured - Eelyn and Fiske had no chemistry together and there was no buildup to their relationship.Personally, I think it would have worked better if they had a platonic, rather than a romantic, relationship.The combination of bland writing and lack of complex characterisation and worldbuilding resulted in a shallow, unspectacular read.
During a battle against an enemy Riki clan, Eelyn discovers her brother, Iri, thought dead, is actually still alive and fighting against her clan on the battle field.From the blurb here: Faced with her brother’s betrayal, she must survive the winter in the mountains with the Riki, in a village where every neighbor is an enemy, every battle scar possibly one she delivered.Essentially, this is a story about how everyone is similar and the hate and prejudices you hold are against people who underneath their differences, are just like you – with families, hobbies, hopes, fears, etc.
Just finished my reread of this beauty in preparation for the OwlCrate Book Club (come find us on Facebook if you’re an OwlCrate subscriber!). I didn’t think it was possible to love this book more than I already did, but I LOVED this reread. I took my time with it and really savoured every chapter. I adore these characters and this story. I can’t wait to discuss it in the book club.
Discovering her brother lives starts the crumbling of her certainty, and through the events that follow she understands that the world is not as black and white as "Aska good, Riki bad." She is nudged into an internal evolution, one that leads to better understanding that the Aska and Riki aren't as different as she had thought.Also, I can't really dig into explaining this due to spoilers, but this books brings a whole new meaning to "The enemy of my enemy is my friend." As you read, I would keep that thought on the periphery.As for another favorite part of Sky in the Deep that I loved, enter the romance.
Side note: What I love about this story is injuries are actually taken seriously and they aren't like brushed off.
Eelyn is injured from a previous battle in the beginning, so she is not at her best when a Riki (another Viking clan) corners her and is about to take her life.
She cares for her father, who has lost his son and his wife, and she cares for her fighting partner Mýra, why has lost loved ones as well.But the Riki are the enemy, so why is her brother on their side of the battle field now?
Still, I wasn't quite sure what to expect from the overall story arc, and I knew very little going into it besides the fact that the main character, Eelyn, would shockingly discover her brother to be alive - and fighting for the enemy.This happens very early on, and it immediately pulled me in, because not only was the entire previous fight super action-packed and hectic, but the emotional turmoil this discovery awakens in Eelyn was written so beautifully and made you feel for her right away.
I loved this. Now I want to read/watch all the viking things
Is this really a stand alone? Because I’m so thrilled after the ending! Also, can the whole ax thing was freaking awesome, and there was some awesomely brutal scenes. There was family love, friendship, and romance mixed in. And I really want viking hair as of now!!Review on my blog https://literarydust.wordpress.com/20...
Eelyn was strong and proud and a true kick-ass heroine and to me, there wasn’t one single situation in which I couldn’t relate to her feelings or thought process.
I also loved all the secondary characters - of course not everyone right from the start 😏 - but they, too, felt very real.
There was just one secondary character who I couldn’t relate to and who I’m still kind of hating, even after having finished the book (yeah, screw you traitor!).Another lovely thing about this was the enemies to lovers romance.

" 'Vegr yfir fjor.' Honor above life."  I don't think I can fully express how much I loved this book.
One of my favorite tropes it the enemies-to-lovers trope, and this book had it, and it was perfect.
And I loved Eelyn and Fiske together.
This book also really focused on Eelyn and Fiske (which I loved), but I wish Iri was in a little bit more.
There is going to be more of this world and I'm so happy.
And I'm honestly going to be obsessing over this book for the rest of my days.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~One thing you should know about me is how much I love Vikings so I have very high expectations.
Chapter one starts off with the Aska and Riki battle five years after Eelyn, has lost her brother and to her surprise her brother is still very much alive, only this time he is fighting with her sworn enemy.
-The fact that this will have a companion novel (as much as I loved this story and I'm sad to see it go, it was the perfect length)-Eelyn's friendship with Mýra, and the two of them fighting beside one another was epic- JUST EVERYTHINGAll in all guys, this is going to be a VERY hard book to knock out of my top 3 favorite reads for 2018.
The writing was fine, the characters were fine, there is nothing glaringly bad about it but, I don't know, for me, it just fell FLAT.
I made a status update about 150 pages in that it read like one of my cultural anthropology textbooks from University - that's honestly how I felt.
As an examination of Viking life, it was great, but that wasn't really what I was looking for.I would read other books by this author (maybe)but not if these are the characters the story follows.
It hurts but as I said, it was good, it just wasn't what I thought it would be.
It's a new favorite of mine, and one that I'll be rereading and thinking about for a long time.The story opens with immediate acting, in which Eelyn and her people (the Aska) are getting ready to face off with the enemies, the Riki.
Two of my favorite tropes when it comes to romance!The ending is a really, really good ending, for the Aska and the Riki, for Eelyn and her people, for Fiske and Eelyn, for Iri and his new paths.
I love the story of the Aska and the Riki coming together to survive.
“Honor above life.”  Sky in the Deep is about Eelyn, a young Aska girl who while in battle sees her dead brother.
I liked the story a lot, seeing Eelyn’s struggles which who she is and what she’s always known.
Being thrown into a new environment isn’t easy and she had a lot to deal with.I think lots of readers will love this book and with a debut like this, I am excited to see what this author will bring to us in the future!
3 KINDS OF PEOPLE WHO WILL LOVE THIS BOOK AS MUCH AS I DID 1. People who love action-packed booksHeck, this novel begins with an intense fight scene between Eelyn and her people, and their sworn enemies, the Riki. Obviously, being a viking book, war is always just around the corner. There are tons of those training montages we say we hate but secretly love, which are just as fun to read as the actual fights, which we don't get a lack of, either.The pacing's not too fast and not too slow, which
1. People who love action-packed booksHeck, this novel begins with an intense fight scene between Eelyn and her people, and their sworn enemies, the Riki.
There are tons of those training montages we say we hate but secretly love, which are just as fun to read as the actual fights, which we don't get a lack of, either.The pacing's not too fast and not too slow, which makes said fight scenes perfectly powerful, but not too overbearing.
People who love awesome characters and relationships even moreSky in the Deep is surprisingly a character-driven novel.
4.5 Skye in the Deep by Adrienne Young is an impressive debut novel that every fan of YA fantasy should add to their tbr. A masterfully written tale with badass characters and a beautiful message, this story exceeded all my expectations! Knowing this is the work of a new author truly blows me away!  I want to start off by saying that I've read plenty of first time novels, and this doesn't read like one. This story is expertly crafted, interesting, layered, and emotional. It's not one of those bo
Skye in the Deep by Adrienne Young is an impressive debut novel that every fan of YA fantasy should add to their tbr.
A masterfully written tale with badass characters and a beautiful message, this story exceeded all my expectations!
This story is expertly crafted, interesting, layered, and emotional.
I appreciate a story with a well built world, fierce characters, a love connection worth rooting for, and epic battle scenes that keep me on the edge of my seat.
Bottom line, I fell in love with this story, the setting, the characters, and the heart of this novel.
