https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13127599-the-shoemaker-s-wife
The old Italian-immigrant-comes-to-America-makes-good-intergenerational-story that your preteen daughter could read and write home from camp about!
There are no surprises but it makes you happy and you go to sleep at night with no sad sighs or regrets about what this world is coming to.
Trigiani is a prolific writer known around the world and I bet it's for just this very reason...I recommend it if you have had enough of pundits, naysayers, "wars on women" and collapsing or near collapsing economies!
If nothing else you'll have a craving for good pasta and handsome Italian men.
This was a recent choice by one of the book clubs I belong to and when I heard it was the choice, I was less than thrilled.
Well, I was NOT prepared to be sucked into the story like I was and to discover that I really liked this book.
The locations described in the book, especially the mountain villages of Italy and New York City around the time of WWI practically deserved to be considered characters in their own right as the story unfolded.
This is NOT a sappy love story.
It’s a slow, beautiful, compelling story with which you can’t help but feel involved and enamoured.No matter what chapter you are on in this book, the setting is always lush and evocative.
The Shoemaker’s Wife took this involvement to a whole new level whereby long after I had finished, I still felt very much connected to Enza and Ciro and the taste of the Italian Alps lingered in my mind.If my endorsement doesn’t do it for you, take it from Kathryn Stockett (author of The Help)—this book is “Utterly splended!”
The author, clearly, did her research before writing this book; and she put every tidbit of research into the novel.
There were ideas, and characters, and actions that did not move the story forward or enrich the act of reading in any way.
I could definitely excuse a little bad writing if it was her first novel.
Written in the 3rd person omniscient (is that ever a good idea?), Trigiani tells the reader what the characters are thinking and feeling.
A teacher once told me that some stories are better realized as novels, while others make better scripts or plays.
A love story that travels from the Italian Alps across the Atlantic to New York City and to the Iron Range of Minnesota in a sweeping historical novel that spans the first half of the twentieth century?
Imagine it: It's 1910, you travel from the Italian Alps to Venice, take a ship from Venice down the Adriatic, around the boot of Italy, across the western Mediterranean, through the Strait of Gibraltar, around Spain and Portugal and across the Bay of Biscay, and up the English Channel, and you dock at Le Havre two days after leaving home.
Meh. Overly descriptive, is that a bad thing?
So much happens in the book but is so bogged down in description that the change of scenery just kind of occurs as an incident.
Granted, there are some tender moments and a plethora of sadness in the book, particularly toward the end, and yes, sometimes that works and sometimes it doesn't.
The era is the most interesting thing in the book.NOTE: I was also listening to the audio while reading and the abrupt change of narrator from the Italian actress to author Trigiani is AWFUL.
After a while though, Trigiani's writing style began to get on my nerves.
She had the annoying habit of wrapping up significant events from an omniscient future point of view, as though her readers are sitting beside her looking through the yellowing photographs of her family album.
Considering Trigiani is writing about her own family, I can see how this happened, but it had the effect of distancing me from the story.
It was the most cliched and dull mess of wrapping up a novel that I've ever seen.
What a wonderful book starting in Italy going to New Jersey then New York City most of it taking place before I was born.How tough times were and rent was $1.00 a month can't even by a loaf of bread for that now days.There were times my tears kept me from reading the words but loved every word and wanted more when it ended.
Their mother never returns!Not far from Bergamo, a bit further up in the mountain village of Schilpario, lives Enza, eldest daughter of the Ravenellis with her family and works all the household chores, studies to be a seamstress and helps her dad Marco with his carriage business.
Laura, her supervisor at the factory endures this with Enza and the other girls for a long time, but then decides to take all their savings and work their way to the Opera House in NYC where Enza’s luck and talent begins to flourish.So the years pass by and both Ciro, Enza and Marco keep working for their dreams.
It's a great love story, set in early 20th century America and 19th century Italy.
Enza and Ciro, whose story is based on the true romance of the author's grandparents, grow up just a few miles apart from each other in the mountains of Northern Italy.
That's probably for the best, as the most enjoyable parts of the story are really the Enza/Ciro sort-of-love-affair.
As I said, the first three quarters of the book, the story of the couple and their love affair, is the best part.
This book was written in such a fashion, it read like a movie. The description used to illustrate every movement allowed the movie to continue to play throughout my mind on every page. I fell in love with each of the characters, and their stories. It was so good, I read it in 4 days, staying up until 3 A.M. to find out what happened next!
An epic tale about leaving the old country to set up life in the new, with all the uncertainty, hard work, devotion and spirit of adventure that it entailed.When Enza and Ciro meet in the mountains of Italy they are young teenagers growing up in a culture at once rich with history and humble in its simplicity. Different circumstances drive them to leave their homes and set out for the land of opportunity across the ocean. How they meet and part, and part and meet is the substance of the story,
An epic tale about leaving the old country to set up life in the new, with all the uncertainty, hard work, devotion and spirit of adventure that it entailed.When Enza and Ciro meet in the mountains of Italy they are young teenagers growing up in a culture at once rich with history and humble in its simplicity.
One understands what it is to have one’s heart back in the mountains of Italy and at the same time throw one’s all into this new land of opportunity born of hard work.

this story is so rich in background that by the time the shoemaker gets his wife, I felt as if I knew both Enza and Ciro like they were members of my own family.
the immigration - so vivid, I felt as if I was on Ellis Island with both families, and yet I longed for the mountains and the life they'd left behind as well.This is a perfect book club read - it's lavish, beautiful, and filled with a little bit of every type of perfection.
In the meal of plot, Trigiani skips the meat and potatoes and goes right to the after dinner mints.I'm not even going to start on the absurdities of the romance that is the foundation of the book, so I'll just say this: (view spoiler)[if a man who has previously admitted that he is not very committed to you and with whom you've spent a cumulative two days over the course of ten years asks you to run away with him on the day you're to be married to a man who treats you like a queen, in whose company you are always happy, and will support you while you pursue your dream career - I'm pretty sure I'd laugh in the interloper's face before gleefully sashaying down the aisle.
As far as the story goes, I enjoyed it enough to give it 5 stars.
If there is one thing that Adriana Trigiani should not do, it is to read her own books.
There were lots of teary moments, and the story was easy to listen to...
She shouldn't try to do everything.*****Ok, now I'm blushing as I admit that I wrote AT and gently told her that I thought she did other things better than she did reading books aloud.
AND, then graciously offered to send me the book when it is finished.

Roman koji se proteže na preko 500 strana prati sudbinu dvoje ljudi od njihovog ranog i teškog djetinjstva pa do poznih godina.
Roman je prepun divnih opisa koji su na odličan način dočarali vrijeme o kojem autorica govori.
Kao da sam cijeli roman provela negdje uz likove, posmatrajući ih sa strane.
Likovi su odlično okarakterizirani, kroz roman jasno pratimo njihovo sazrijevanje, njihove osjećaje i dileme koje ih prate.
Neću pisati o samoj radnji kako ne bih otkrila previše jer preporučujem obavezno čitanje :) vjerujem da će mnoge oduševiti kako divni opisi i rekonstrukcija vremena, tako i apsolutno predivna ljubavna priča koja ovaj roman čini posebnim.
You have a line like "At long last, he understood his mother.
The veneer had always been the thing that held her up." followed by "The surface had been strong, but beneath it, who knew?" Every time I thought this is getting good something would bring me back out of it.
This is a summer/beach read on an epic scale, but not a book that will affect you deeply, though I can see the appeal as a getaway read as long as you don't mind sadness at the end.
Well, you won’t like this story, then, because every other chapter gives you a new implausible coincidence to ponder.
Sadly, even those parts of the book that do not depend on coincidence are implausible.
In fact, her settings are far more real than her characters.This book reminded me of those Barbara Taylor Bradford books we used to read back in the 1970’s when we were convincing ourselves that true love was around the corner and the working world was just waiting to reward us for our cleverness and work ethic.
I suspect those who love this book are young and a tad romantic.
What I discovered was a delightful story that left me wanting to read more of Trigiani’s novels.The Shoemaker’s Wife is a sweeping tale of love, life and the many things that can pull people apart –and bring them together.
And though Ciro has never seemed to have any affection for her before, he finds himself drawn to her.Trigiani’s newest novel is a powerful tale of Italian immigrants, romance and the real hardships of life –and the ability of the human spirit to overcome it all.
This is one of those historical fiction romance's that people either hate or love, depending on what side of historical truth and super detailed description, you happen to fall on.
For me, I'm not a history buff so the lack of accuracy isn't a problem and if you've read any of my other reviews, you know I love well placed descriptive stokes.
She isn't the MC; but it is a "pretty" title.
I was pulled right into the story of 2 little boys abandoned by their mother who was ill and could not care for them.
I loved the descriptions of Italy.
“Beware the things of this world that can mean everything or nothing.”
The first time I saw it, it literally took my breath away.I have read many of Trigiani's books, starting with the Big Stone Gap series, through the Valentine series, stand alone books like Rococco, and her non-fiction book about her grandmothers titled Don't Sing at the Table, and enjoyed them all, but all of the those books so clearly led her to write this masterpiece, her best book yet, The Shoemaker's Wife.Some writers are better at story (John Grisham, for example), others excel at writing memorable characters; in my mind, no author is better than Trigiani at writing the setting of the story.
Well-written, engrossing, substantial story about two Italians, Enza and Ciro, that immigrate separately to the United States.
The story in Italy involves both of their families and some major episodes in their early lives.
The book is a family saga involving births, deaths, courtships, marriages, deep friendships, and all the hallmarks of a life.
I could picture the serenity of the Italian Alps and the activity of New York City.
They appeared to originate more from a lack of research than any plot-related necessity.
Recommended to those that enjoy family sagas and anyone interested in the immigrant experience of the early 1900’s in the United States.
The first half of the book was complete in itself - the story of Enza and Ciro growing up and ending with their at long last engagement.
It wasn't bad - just different - and I suppose was a reflection of the big changes in their lives at that point, and that they were now Americans, not Italian immigrants.Book Description: The majestic beauty of the Italian Alps at the turn of the twentieth century is the setting of the first meeting of Enza, a practical beauty, and Ciro, a strapping mountain boy.
Cover, title, synopsis, all three captivated me and made me want to drop everything and read it right away.As always Adriana writes characters so delightfully detailed and three-dimensional that I feel as though I would know them anywhere.
Written in alternating chapters, as the reader we are able to enjoy seeing the story unfold from both Ciro and Enzo's world.
My final thoughts: I have read and enjoyed many of Adriana's books and this one is no exception, in fact I think this one rates as one of my favorites of her ten books.
This is a book I will read again.
Not to say I do not love Italian food but the book seemed to be consumed (pardon the pun) with cooking and eating and drinking wine.It was overly long and I thought the story could have been much better if it had been condensed and cut by about two hundred pages.
It just did not come together well for me.I do realize that this was the author's tale of family and if I did not know that fact, I would never have guessed as she herself seemed detached from the story.
“The Shoemaker’s Wife” was a buddy read that a friend of mine and I decided to do together.
While it's true that the story can be bogged down with descriptions in some parts and the second half of the novel feels rushed through, the overall story is an adventure that is worth reading until the end; the detailed imagery transports the reader into the Italian Alps, and later the USA.
As for the audiobook version, the narrator did an outstanding job bringing “The Shoemaker’s Wife” to life; full marks to Orlagh Cassidy.I would highly recommend both this novel and its accompanying audiobook; I promise that you will not be able to get through the story without shedding at least one tear..
I love this book! I just started reading it yesterday. I have loved Trigiani's Big Stone Gap Series. But this one may even beat that well-loved series. The characters are so vivid, and the plot threatens to break your heart. All I can say is this epic tale grabs you and refuses to let go.
