https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17312156-tempests-and-slaughter
But - and it pains me to say it - this is just not a four star book.Don't get me wrong, there are definitely enjoyable parts.
Almost all of the forward momentum of the plot occurs in the last fifty-ish pages, setting us up for what will probably grow into a good series.As with the wonderful Alanna books, Tempests and Slaughter follows the protagonist, this time Arram Draper, through his years at a fantasy school.
Orignal Post Aug 30, 2013Edit 7/11/14The publication date got pushed back to 2015?Edit 1/31/15Excuse me? 2016? Is this a cruel joke?Edit 8/31/15It's been TWO YEARS since I found out about this book and there's still no official publication date.Edit 1/7/2016GoodReads hasn't updated it yet, but 2017 is the new expected publication year. 2017.There will now be three books instead of two. BUT COME ON!!
We got a cool poster in the back of the book!
I enjoyed this book but I do believe it could have been shorter with just the things that were in book.
I'm hoping the next book will blow this one out of the water.
My favorite character is, Preet the bird.
You will love him too!
Trust me =) I did love the other characters too.
But for the love of all that's holy!
WHY did I have to hear about Arram talking about his little boy peen!
And then I had to read about Ozorne telling him everything about said peen!
if ‘harry potter’ and ‘the name of the wind’ had an illegitimate child, it would be this book.
this book is that child.
sadly, the fact that this story felt like a knock off of others wasnt the only thing that bothered me.
it was just random stuff, but there was so much of it that it felt like there was a lot happening, when in reality there wasnt.
i realise that it was not necessary to read those books prior to this, but i couldnt help but feel like that might have bumped up my enjoyment a bit.
Pierce backtracks several years to relate the youthful experiences of Arram Draper, who plays a key role in other TORTALL books, particularly the IMMORTALS series, as the powerful mage Numair.When Tempests and Slaughter begins, Arram is a ten year old boy, just beginning a new year at the School for Mages, part of the Imperial University of Carthak.
Arram’s only close friendships are with Varice and Orzorne, who is initially about eighth in line for the throne of Carthak … except that accidents keep happening to other heirs.Tempests and Slaughter is a charming book, if episodic in its approach and rather meandering as we follow Arram through the years.
12/19/17 Update:  GUYS, I REPEAT, I HAVE AN ARC, AGHHHHHHH: https://www.instagram.com/p/Bc5Yq5RDk... 😍📚😍 MY LIFE IS NOW COMPLETE.6/20/17 Update: THE COVER IS GLORIOUS. AND THE PREORDER IS NOW UP ON AMAZON: http://amzn.to/2tKJpUk >> And yes, I'm that girl, the one that met Tammy (finally!) at a convention and broke into tears. Because this author is my hero and the reason I write.(ignore how bloody awful I look in this pic, haha!)I have been waiting for this book for YEARS.And I mean YEARS.Tortall is back!!!!
Let us begin this review by drawing to attention something pretty insane. Something I don’t see in any of the reviews I’ve read but guys, it’s so apparent. Tempests and Slaughter follows the story of young Arram Draper   Harry Potter   as he studies to become a mage   a wizard.  He has two friends that accompany him all through his years, a prince named Ozorne   Ron Weasley   and a clever kitchen mage, Varice   Hermione Granger   . Arram’s strong abilities catch the eye of the headmaster, Master
Something I don’t see in any of the reviews I’ve read but guys, it’s so apparent.
I’m fine with reading about one time that Arram is healing plague victims.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a book with such a horrible case of  show, not tell .
Musenda was wonderful and if there’s a love story with him in it, I’ll buy it in bulk (just don’t make Tamora Pierce write it, plz and ty).
Ozorne is a much worse version of Mehmed.have you read Harry Potter?
read Harry Potter and the Conquerer’s Saga instead.
...it's about Numair.PLEASE TAKE MY MONEY!
First off, thank you Tamora Pierce for like, all the books.
Not because it's Numair's backstory, but this book, though completely new to me, felt like coming home.
I see Ozorne as a teenager, I see Arram learning how special he is, I see gods and their immortal creatures and it's all new but it's not.
Of course now I'm expected to wait a year+ for book two and so of course I'll reread the series 3 times...
Look if you loved any book Tamora Pierce has written in the Tortall realm you'll love this one.BUT SERIOUSLY.
I love this book.
I never read anything by Tamora Pierce ever!! I’m about to change that! Soon. 🍂An book about a group of friends in a magic school? Sign me in!
Still, the prince needs the support of his companions now more than ever, and one of Arram’s best virtues is his loyalty.Arram eventually grows up to become the powerful mage known as Numair Salmalín, a character who apparently features prominently in a lot of Tamora Pierce’s books set in the Tortall universe.
Meanwhile, Ozorne also grows increasingly anxious and moody as, one by one, the heirs before him are picked off by misfortune, leading Arram to begin questioning his future with the young prince.Besides his friends, our protagonist has also bonded with others outside the university, including a gladiator slave whose harsh life has opened Arram’s eyes to a lot of the poverty and injustices occurring in the city.
OMG, OMG, OMG, NUMAIR!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Numair BEFORE Daine, at that!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I am SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO excited!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
The book centres around three young students, learning to be mages: Arram, Varice, and Ozorne.
I, for one, am anticipating what the future will hold for Arram and Ozorne’s friendship.There also wasn’t a great deal of plot in this novel.
Despite enjoying it by the end, I was only interested in the book as I was currently reading it.
Perhaps if there had been a bit more plot, I would’ve enjoyed this novel a great deal more.
:DAll-in-all, this was a very enjoyable novel, and I can’t wait to read the rest of Tamora Pierce's books!
I think that it would be a little slow if this was the first book of her that you were picking up and I also think that even with my love for her and Numair, that the title really didn’t fit with the more..it more or less seems to be setting up for what is to come on the horizon (which is totally fine but I think some people might be misled).Arram Draper a.k.a. Numair for those of you who have read Pierce’s other series, was a damn treat in this book.
Oh, whoa. I love my kid. SOMEONE HOLD MEHE'S GETTING A BOOK. NUMAIR IS GETTING HIS OWN BOOK.AND IT LOOKS LIKE IT MIGHT POSSIBLY BE A SERIES. SOMEONE HOLD ME
If you have read the Immortals series by Tamara Pierce is Numair Salmalín is a familiar name. In her new series, The Numair Chronicles do we get to know Numair Salmalín before he became a famous mage. When he was still Attam Draper. Tempests and Slaughter is the first new book in a new series by Tamara Pierce, and when I got the chance to read this book couldn't I turn it down. And, I'm glad that I decided to go for the book because Pierce has written a fabulous YA fantasy book that can be read
Tempests and Slaughter is the first new book in a new series by Tamara Pierce, and when I got the chance to read this book couldn't I turn it down.
When the book starts is Arram almost eleven years old and the story will progress until he's fourteen so one gets to follow him as he grows older (of course together with his trusted friends Varice and Ozorne) and reading about him becoming more and more powerful.
I found this the first book to be an excellent start of a new series and both new and old fans of Tamara Pierce will love it!
The Numair Chronicles Series Ratings:Tempests and Slaughter: ★★★★The Exile's Gift: Possibly TBR— Thank you to Netgalley for providing me an advanced reader copy in exchange for my honest review.It’s just as Master Sebo says, Arram decided during their ride home.
Tempests and Slaughter follows Arram as he studies at the Imperial University of Carthak, a school to teach mages to control their gift and find the best field to use it.
“Why do you do it, Master, if it’s so dangerous?” Arram asked.“Because they are not undeserving of care.
4.5*This is going to be an extra small review as I do not have power thanks to the Nor’easter and am doing this on my 4G and don’t want to lose more battery life. Absolutely enjoyed this wonderful mage story! The main trio of characters was entertaining and the dialogue and plot in this story is so amusing. The pages flew by because of the entertainment of the plot. My quick and simple overall: entertaining and a great mage story!
There’s a great deal of world building throughout book, which thoroughly explains the use of magic etc.
The plot just doesn’t really go anywhere, and nothing really happens other than creating this world - and for a novel that’s over 500 pages long this is a major problem.
It became apparent near the closing pages that this was set up for future novels, but I couldn’t help feeling like I’d wasted a lot of my time.
There’s nothing really unique here, and although Arram is very much a stereotypical boy who just happens to be an incredibly powerful mage, I just couldn’t connect with him.
I was so happy to hear that Tempests and Slaughter could be an entry point to Pierce's extensive Tortall universe, because I have been wanting to try one of her books for ages.
There is enough foreshadowing in this book to know that they have much in store for them, and probably not all good.This would be a great choice for readers middle grade and above who enjoy the magic school setting and character driven stories.
I wish I could read the next chronological series in the Tortall universe, The Immortals, but I already know it contains spoilers for the next book in this series.
It wasn’t even the biggest book I have read but due to the info dumping of the content, it really felt like a drag in some parts.
I know this is a duology, so maybe once I’ve read the second book in this series I will dive into Tamora Pierce’s other books, so hopefully, this book will eventually come together better for me.Arram Draper is studying to be a mage.
I know it seems like I’ve complained about this story feeling stagnant in some areas, but I really thought the writing was what did keep me reading.
★★★★☆The Imperial University of Carthak is a prestigious school, educating the brightest adolescent Mages throughout the kingdom, including promising young mage Arram Draper, the ten year old son of a thread merchant.
Arram Draper is an intelligent, gentle young boy and an advanced learning academic of The Imperial University of Carthak.Prince Ozorne is an interesting character and although charismatic, isolates himself from his peers at university.
Established friends Varice and Ozorne welcome Arram to the independent learning program where he will receive private tuition in each discipline.In a kingdom where slavery is celebrated in the gladiator area, the Sirajit revolutionaries oppose the barbarism of the royal family, Prince Ozorne's father slain during the uprising and his son determined to avenge his father.
It’s safe to say I’ve been anticipating the promised ‘Young Numair book’ for around fifteen years - over half my lifespan.And now it’s here and… I can’t help feeling like if I hadn’t been anticipating it, I wouldn’t particularly care.Here’s the thing.
Like most of Tamora Pierce’s protagonists, his sense of justice gets him into fights he can’t win.
Perhaps this is on me, for coming into this book with so many expectations, but I anticipated the friendship between Arram, Ozorne, and Varice being the heart of this series, and that makes it weird that long chunks of this book are spent with Arram away from his companions.
**Spoiler-free review!** I think the first time I read about the Young Numair trilogy was on Tammy's "Upcoming Books" page way back in 2003, when I was 14 years old.
It's no secret that I'm a huge Tamora Pierce fan, and Numair is my forever #1 man (hello, he's a Goldblum lookalike), but I admit I was little nervous about reading a Tammy book from a male POV.
Fans of Tammy's work will be thrilled by all the references to past (wait, future?) series, and many of your Immortals faves make appearances.
11/21/16 update: NEW TITLE. and 2018 release!!edit 10/3: IT'S NOT JUST A DUOLOGY, IT'S GONNA BE A TRILOGY!WOOOOO THERE'S A LEGIT TITLE!!& WOOOO IT'S GONNA BE A SERIES!!
Rating: 3,8 This book took me quite a while to finish.
There were several different factors which made me put this book down so it took me 3 weeks.
Good points: Tamora Pierce made  an outstanding job with world building and character creation.
Preet is so darn cute and I really like this whole idea about gods which give this book a deeper layer in plot.
Things I not necessarily liked: Plots and scenes.
Overaly, I really liked this book and I'm looking forward to read the 2nd book.
DNF at 255 pages.Don't flame me yall, this book wasn't the worst I've read.The writing is good, I can envision what is happening throughout the story, but for some reason the main character just...
And for me, if the main character can't suck me in, the story won't be enjoyable.Arram Drapper - the main character, is already called out as a chosen one somewhere in the book, his power is so extraordinary, and the author mentions about a dozen times that he's so young compared to the rest of his peers which got old really fast.
it's too long, and reading about Arram attending his lessons for nearly every single chapter got old at some point.Who knows?
Arram hates being bored.Fortunately the mages at the Imperial University don't believe in holding students back.
Instead, they toss Arram into individualized classes, along with Varice--the girl Arram intends to one day marry--and Ozorne, the heir--many times removed--to the Carthak throne.
One day Arram, Varice, and Ozorne will practice magic in a cave on behalf of the empire.Maybe.
And really making the crocodile god mad.Actually, there are a million pitfalls in learning to be a mage at the University of Carthak.
With all the magic of a world in which a young boy can learn to walk on the river bottom, protect a magical sunbird of the gods, and determine the meaning of true friendship.
While the characters tripped me up a little at the beginning of the book, Pierce’s clear writing – definitely something that is needed in fantasy – drew me into the story, and I was able to follow along perfectly for someone who is so completely new to the Tortall universe.A lot of the novel is focused on Arram’s magical education and the development of his friendships with a girl named Varice (who is his lover in another series) and Prince Ozorne, one of the seven heirs to the throne of Carthak … who later, in another series, becomes one of Numair’s most bitter enemies.
And then there are the ones in which every moment was fun (Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,Six of Crows) ; after reading which you want to meet the author and take their autographs and become their best friend .
A la Harry Potter , about Arram Draper a young mage who is on his way to be the strongest mage in the world .
This book is very much on the notes of Harry Potter .
What else could I hope from a young adult fantasy novel .
