https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16121.Titan
In this book there is so much more to relate to personally than when you read about an American President from a bygone era.
Religion, art, psychology, corporate management, in fact everything that changed the world from the America of the 1800s to the interwar years is reflected here in one family.
The most important point to stress is that every topic is presented in such a way that you want to know more and more and more.
Chernow presents the facts clearly.
In naming four, I simply feel that I do injustice to the book for not naming all the others equally well portrayed.
It is the pivotal moment of Rockefeller's life, and thoroughly unsatisfactorily described.I am left to wonder if it is another selection effect and what I've noted elsewhere, like my review of The Media Lab: we often assume millionaires and billionaires must have deep wisdom ("if you're so smart, why aren't you rich?"), when they may actually be deeply irrational, risk-seeking, and little more than lottery winners of timing & chance.
I'd rank this one under Alexander Hamilton, but over Washington: A Life (Since I haven't read The House of Morgan: An American Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Financeor The Warburgs: The Twentieth-Century Odyssey of a Remarkable Jewish Family, I'll decide later where it fits among those two).
It seems in some ways the Kochs have learned from the mistakes of previous billionaires, but it also seems like the more things change with oil, money, and politics - the more they stay the same.***Finally, Chernow writes primarily about banking families and American biographies:Chernow's Banking Dynasties:1.
He obtained his religious convictions from his devout mother and his love of money from his often absent flim-flam father who earned money as a traveling medicine man.When oil was discovered in western Pennsylvania Rockefeller quickly realized its value.
So he borrowed money with another bright man named Henry Flagler and they started Standard Oil.
At the same time his business partner Henry Flagler became less interested in Standard Oil and was instead envisioning the potential in developing swamp ridden Florida.
I know it's impossible to judge at such distance and on such flimsy evidence, but I'm going to do it anyway (didn't you just know I would): I do get the distinct impression that women who existed within the rarefied atmosphere of fabulous wealth, alongside obsessive patriarchs who came out of a puritan Baptist tradition that saw enjoyment as sinful, tended to have nothing left to do in life except cultivate refined and ladylike diseases.
Or maybe it's more to do with finding something that gives sense and value to your life.
The best walking paths in the area are in the Rockefeller State Park Preserve, an expansive and beautiful slice of forest made from a part of Rockefeller’s former estate.
Luckily, Chernow’s patience and sensitivity allow him to paint a convincing and unforgettable portrait of this evasive figure.As Chernow himself says, Rockefeller was the walking embodiment of Max Weber’s Protestant Ethic.
Clearly, he saw more to life than work and money.But Rockefeller’s greatest virtue was his charity.
(His name was so vilified anyway it would likely have hampered his charities.) And contrary to what you might expect, Rockefeller’s philanthropic impulse was deep and genuine, something he had from the beginning of his life.
A lot.I first read about Rockefeller in The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power which ended up being my favorite history book.
This could very well be my favorite biography, every bit as good or better than the author's more recent book on Alexander Hamilton.This paints a mostly positive impression of Rockefeller in contrast to his initial biographer, Ida Tarbell, who comes across as a bit of a bitch but I walked away with that impression after reading The Prize too.
Opinions will differ on that as well depending on whether it's the government's role to confiscate personal earnings.
One of the great American Biographies. Chernow always delivers.The Narrator Grover Gardner, has a monotone type of voice that reminds one of Jack Webb, and yet it seems like exactly the type of voice the listener needs to help them slice through these large historical tomes.
Amazing biography/history lesson. This man was born to make money, obviously was good at it, but married a discrete religious woman and raised his children to be humble. 'I am so happy little John has told me what he wants for Christmas, so that I may deny him it.' Sounds harsh in our over-indulgent days, but when you see they likes of Paris Hilton and other horrifying progeny of the wealthy in the 'news', it makes you long for the days of hard work, discretion, and modesty.
This book was interesting initially, but became more of an effort the further into it I got. Rockefeller was certainly an interesting man and his contributions to American business were highly significant. However, once the author established the type of man he was, what his contributions were, and the impact he had on society, the book became an exercise in perseverance for me. Serious students of the late industrial revolution and the rise of American and international business, may find it more engaging to the end. SPOILER ALERT... he dies in the end.
I wonder - is it a better use of money to have it concentrated by one person who decides how to spend it for projects that the public might never support, or is it better to more fairly distribute it for a very large number of people to use as they see fit?The combination of human foibles with great wealth is what makes the rich so fascinating to us.
I know Chernow has such a great reputation as a biographer, so I don't want to be too critical.
The Power Broker is over 1,000 pages long, but I really believe that every word served a purpose.
Rockefeller isn't as bad as Ida Tarbell made everyone believe.
The problem with this argument is that the author is assuming that everyone knows who Ida Tarbell is and that everyone has a negative opinion of John D.
Five hundred pages in, when Chernow finally tells you what Tarbel said, you've already been hearing about her in brief asides that imply anyone half educated should know who that is many, many times.
I really enjoyed this book.
Such a fascinating person.
John D.
And one only reaches such heights through dubious means; including extortion, bribes, back door deals, payroll politicians, and general cruelty to all the little fish below.
I also enjoyed reading about his family; his scallywag of a father, who was a bigamist and a conman; his envious brothers, and his children, grandchildren, and in laws.
I don't mean to say his good justified his bad, but it's very important to recognize the complexity and dichotomy of such powerful figures, and to take from it what you can.
While many will know the Rockefeller name as synonymous with money and American business acumen, Chernow seeks to provide the reader with a more thorough understanding of the man, his beliefs, and how he started a multi-generational familial investment in business and political power.
In this wonderfully researched biography, Chernow explores John D Rockefeller from three primary perspectives: the grounded family man, the business giant, and the philanthropic juggernaut.
Chernow shows how Rockefeller used his amassed wealth to offer his children a better life, but did not let them ride on his coat tails and live off his blood and sweat, keeping them on financial leashes while supporting their life choices.
Rockefeller lived a long time (1839-1937) and Chernow does an excellent job of chronicling how society changed over his lifetime and how Rockefeller helped to influence prevailing views of large corporations and wealthy businessmen.
Yet, he ended up with 5 different homes and, for a long period of his life, walled himself off from society.
Chernow is especially good at showing how his family became somewhat dysfunctional, and also showing how Rockefeller's own childhood (his father was a bigamist and disappeared for long stretches at a time) affected him throughout his life.
Long, but really interesting book about the head of the Rockefeller family who earned enough money to boggle the richest person's mind.
He earned billions of dollars at a time when one million would set one for life.Ably narrated by one of my favorites, Grover Gardner, this book was especially interesting to me for its venues including Ohio (Toledo and Cleveland) and New York City that I am very familiar with.The book is primarily about John D., but, as it should, gives background of his parents and continues through his son, known as Junior, and his grandchildren including Governors Wintrhop and Nelson and the youngest, David, who may reach his grandfather's wish of living to 100 next summer.
“Probably the greatest single obstacle to the progress and happiness of the American people,” he intoned, “lies in the willingness of so many men to invest their time and money in multiplying competitive industries instead of opening up new fields, and putting their money into lines of industry and development that are needed.”It is an enduring tribute to Rockefeller that so many Standard Oil companies prospered during the remainder of the century, controlling a significant fraction of both the American and world oil industry.
For Chernow, it's not enough to say that Rockefeller was influenced by such-and-such from his elementary school teacher.
At times, it felt as though Chernow was including information for the sake of not wasting research.I did find Rockefeller to be an interesting figure and enjoyed following his development from ruthless businessman and idealogican puritan to a softer, more jovial philanthropist.
Prior to reading the book, I had no idea the impact that Rockefeller and his descendents have had on medicine, education, and art, not to mention three of the largest oil companies in the world today (Chevron, and ExxonMobil, which I count as two because each of its constituents were children of the Standard Oil breakup).
Rockefeller - almost too comprehensive.
The most intriguing part of this book is the deftness in which Chernow handles the dichotomy of Rockefeller's character: that such a deeply religious and charitable man at the same time can be a completely unethical business man.
The other interesting take away from this book is an understanding about how big business in America started and how the choices and actions of Rockefeller are still reverberating today.
For as many laws that were passed to try to prevent another Rockefeller, America still cherishes and idealizes the mad rush to make money by any means necessary as the American Dream.
An exceptional biography of John D. Rockefeller. This story follows the arc of his life nicely. Great detail (no surprise to those who have read other of this author's works). If interested in Rockefeller's life, this is a terrific book to read.
Rockefeller, of course, was the founder of Standard Oil, the Cleveland then New York-based refiner of crude oil that in the decades after the Civil War came to control national and international monopolies over the production and marketing of kerosene, lubricants, and other oil products.
He was both a product and an agent of the modernization of America.*John D's father William Avery Rockefeller was a nineteenth-century American rogue, con-man, and snake-oil salesmen.
In response, Standard Oil threatened to put him out of business by opening a rival store selling everything at a lower cost.*Rockefeller played the stock market his whole life.
Rockefeller was brought up in a family with an absentee dad.
He also learned the way of businesses and eventually started out on his own and co-founded what would be called an oil refinery business today.
He gave lots of money to charitable causes, include funding a medical research facility (producing 16 Nobel prizes) with a clinic that treats people for free.
This is later known as the Rockefeller university.
The monopolistic practices eventually got standard oil dismantled by the goverment in 1911.
He was effectively a billionaire almost overnight.
Having read this, I can only assume that if Chernow lives long enough he'll write some kind of "aw shucks" bio about President Trump.
I even saw parallels to modern characterizations of the Trump children as "young men" in his framing of Junior.
Sure, the aspirational autocrat doesn't have the whole church fixation, but I'm sure Chernow will find some kind of "gee whiz" about him eventually.
Rockefeller's letter congratulating a man who ordered Pinkertons to fire on strikers is just a throwaway.
It does a thoroughly insufficient job of handling the Rockefeller faults, which makes its portrayal of the virtues truly galling.
A fascinating and surprisingly peppy biography of Rockefeller.
His charming snake-oil salesman and bigamist father, Rockefeller's own duality--the cold-blooded businessman and the pious philanthropist--and the variety of characters among his children and grandchildren form a better-than-fiction cast.
I picked this book up now that I live in Cleveland, to learn more about how Rockefeller got his start here and the legacies he left behind.
And who knew that my grandmother's hometown of Oil City was such a naughty hotspot in its day--so much so that the straitlaced Rockefeller avoided visits to the area.
"The most important thing for a young man is to establish a credit — a reputation, character."He let his body and mind rest and reserved energy where he could."I know of nothing more despicable and pathetic than a man who devotes all the hours of the waking day to the making of money for money's sake."“I attribute my good condition to my almost reckless independence in determining for myself what to do and the rigid adhering to regulations which give me the maximum of rest and quiet and leisure, and I am being richly paid for it every day.”To explain his extraordinary longevity, he later said, doubtless overstating the matter, “I’m here because I shirked: did less work, lived more in the open air, enjoyed the open air, sunshine, and exercise.” “It is remarkable how much we all could do if we avoid hustling, and go along at an even pace and keep from attempting too much.”He devoted ample time to reflection and deep inspection.
A very comprehensive and entertaining biography on one of the love 'em or hate 'em men who built the country. A man from a meager beginning learned the value of a dime (or a nickel) from an early age, taught his children to do as he did: to save 1/3, spend 1/3, and donate 1/3 of their allowance and to keep meticulous records of where every penny went. Controversial, yes, mean-spirited and evil, not in my opinion. Chernow writes an excellent biography and even better when the subject is someone you admire.
Chernow paints a vivid and detailed picture of Rockefeller's formative years, which helped makes sense of the seeming dichotomies he would exhibit later in life as the man synonymous with the "leviathan" Standard Oil, branded by Muckrakers as the most evil and destructive monopoly (trust) ever assembled, crushing competitors and wiping out entire industries through buyouts and mergers.Chernow strikes an impressive balance between Rockefeller the Standard Oil baron vilified by the press and by President Theodore Roosevelt as a danger to the nation's economy and to capitalism itself, and Rockefeller the unsurpassed philanthropist who gave away nearly all of his money before retirement and died content with a tiny percentage of his personal wealth.
Entirely way too much detail for the regular human. This is very long and I did skip a large section in the middle when it was focusing mainly on the business dealings (I’m more interested in the human side of his life), but RC is a great biographer so what I did listen to (which was the majority of the book) was interesting.
This religious foundation is critical in understanding Rockefeller’s personality, motivations and behavior, for he unabashedly claimed, “God made me my money.” Rockefeller truly believed that the Almighty was on his side and therefore he was the only man capable of running the oil industry.
He monopolized the oil refinery business – at times controlling 90 % of it – by manipulating the railroad industry, who transported his valuable and vast cargo – in Rockefeller owned oil cars - controlled the expansion of oil pipelines and even monopolized the retail business; his sales and marketing force seemingly everywhere his “product” was needed.
Rockefeller’s years long struggle with both state and federal authorities - and continued “bad press” - culminating in the break-up of the Standard Oil trust in 1911.
Chernow is such a good writer that the weighty book reads like fiction.
He could have gotten lost in the weeds in details of the complex business operations, but he was able to bring to three dimensional life the complex and reclusive personna of John D.
Rockefeller Sr. Chernow's research is broad and meticulous and he evaluates Rockefeller's astounding business success and his subsequent vilification in the context of the times.
The contrast between the agressive, fearless, and ruthless Rockefeller who made Standard Oil the largest and richest conglomerate in the world and the gentle, reclusive, self-effacing private person is a running and fascinating theme.
