https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1646958.The_Widow
”Murder shall entail the death penalty when it precedes, accompanies or follows another crime.” “It just happened. As though a moment comes when it's both necessary and natural to make a decision that has long since been made. ” ― Georges SimenonWhen Jean meets the eyes of the widow Tati on the bus he feels a slight shudder in the universe; and decides, on the spur of the moment, that he is going to get off the bus. It is the French countryside, so when Tati sees Jean walking up to her door she
” ― Georges SimenonWhen Jean meets the eyes of the widow Tati on the bus he feels a slight shudder in the universe; and decides, on the spur of the moment, that he is going to get off the bus.
The Camus comparison is not gratuitous--Simenon often made it himself, and Andre Gide brought the subject up a few years after The Stranger appeared, favoring Simenon’s work, especially this novel.”Interesting enough The Stranger and The Widow were both published in 1942.
”Can you believe that asshole got it and not me?”It is easy to dismiss Simenon because of the prodigious size of his oeuvre especially in comparison to the slender collected works of Camus.
Ottavia Piccolo è Félicie che rompe le uova nel paniere della vedova.Jean, l’evaso del titolo del film in italiano, il conturbante Alain Delon, è appena uscito di galera, pur essendo giovane di buona famiglia, borghese ma ribelle, in fuga dal suo mondo.
I don't know who that babe on the cover is supposed to represent, but this is the story of a murderer released from le clink after a brief sentence for a lesser manslaughter charge who ends up on a strange farm breeding rabbits, incubating chickens, making coffee, considering a haircut, smoking a dirty old man's pipe (not that pipe!), sleeping with a much-older, heavyset, hairy-witch-moled woman when she's not busy smoking the dirty old man's pipe (yes, that pipe), watching his employer/host squabble with her trashy in-laws, and feeling up an unwed mother-ginger in the barn at 8pm every night.
Per almeno tre chilometri, su quella strada tagliata diagonalmente, ogni dieci metri, dall’ombra di un tronco d’albero, c’era soltanto lui;Che lo abbia visto quell’uomo?
L’uomo camminava, c’era soltanto lui.
Vi ritroverete ad essere personaggi dei Romans Durs e tutto ciò che vorreste accadesse e allo stesso tempo temete che accada, accadrà.Simenon non punta sul fattore sorpresa, gli è sufficiente assecondare il lato oscuro degli individui e sceneggiare le loro fantasie segrete.Ne “La vedova Courderc” l’inevitabile si respira mescolato al tanfo di fieno umido, sterco e disinfettante, la tensione è più spugnosa che in altri “romans durs” i dialoghi sono meno incisivi.
At the next stop, Jean and Tati descend together and head towards the woman's farmhouse, a big old house surrounded by poultry, rabbit hutches and a couple of cows.There are about twenty years in age difference between the widow and the convict, also of social background - one born and raised to hard labour in the country, the other the scion of a wealthy merchant family, one who went into servitude as a teenager, the other a depraved, failed student at law in Paris.
Without going into details, the novel delivered on this dark promise and the ending seems in retrospect predestined from the very first glance between Jean and Tati across the crowded bus.>><<>><<>><<>><<>><< The Widow  is my first mature read by prolific author Georges Simenon, after a couple of teenage Maigrets that proved to be entirely forgettable.
At least it is wonderful in so far as he writes about Simenon himself - I freely admit I stopped reading when he started writing about this novel.
Albert Camus' novel The Stranger and this by Simenon were published in the same year, and Theroux thought it worthwhile to comment on the two of them.
If reading Camus represents duty, Simenon represents indulgence, a lavishness that seems frivolous, inspiring a greedy satisfaction ...
Later in this introduction, Theroux says Simenon considered himself the equal of Balzac.
Failure comes in more than one form, some forms more subtle than others.Simenon was even more prolific than Balzac.
Lettura che scorre lenta, come lento è il fluire delle acque del canale che lambisce la casa dove la
Δεν υπάρχουν στο Σιμενόν περιβλήματα ούτε από μαύρο, ούτε από άλλα χρώματα.Η ανυπόφορη ζήλια που ενίοτε οδηγεί στην ανημπόρια υποκείμενο και αντικείμενο και τελικά φτάνει σε μία έκρηξη.Ύστερα είναι τα χρήματα βοηθοί ή εξουσιαστές.Κι ύστερα όλες εκείνες οι αποχρώσεις του οικογενειακού συμφέροντος, ανεξάρτητα απ' τα άλλα συναισθήματα όπως τόσο όμορφα μας δείχνει άλλωστε και ο Μωπασάν στο Ζαν και Πιέρ.
Αυτό το μένος, η αίσθηση του αδίκου, το αηδίασμα που περιλαμβάνει κάθε κουβέντα γύρω από τα κληρονομικά και κάνει τους ανθρώπους να ξεχνούν ό,τι τους ενώνει, να ανατρέπουν και να ανατρέπονται, να μολύνουν σαν ιοί την κάθε τους ανάμνηση.
Mixed review to follow.
Simenon wrote this the same time as the "estranger" (sp?) came out. Simenon is still rather obscure. he shouldn't be. this is a fantastic book with the usual mo, screwed up people meet, get along, sort of, get tangled up with the usual crap we humans heap on each others heads, then you snap and smash somebody in the head 8 times with a hammer. ahh, but in such an economical and detailed manner. emulate simenon and you could be a writer.
(3.5) It's fascinating how a situation in a book can strike home causing an overwhelming emotion, awakening the pain from thoughts and memories that lie hidden inside.Behind the quirkiness and absurdity of the characters, this book was a slow, albeit interesting read as it traversed the path of Jean and Tati's symbiotic relationship, from its strange beginning to its explosive ending that I didn't see coming.Simenon on NYRB rarely fails to fulfill its purpose; the human persona is unpredictable at times, but is indeed animal in nature.
The Widow is a good example of his romans durs, his "hard novels," hard because of the mercilessness of the world in which they are set.Jean is the son of a rich father who has disowned him.
He takes up with a farm widow named Tati who is twenty years older than him and seems to be content with doing the farm chores and occasionally making love with his boss.
What was something of a lark for Jean loses its charm for the young man, and he ends up reverting to type.
One of the 'romans durs'. This is my first Simenon. It was quite good. An extra dimension, because tough publshed in 1942, the author (who wrote quickly) dated this May 1, 1940... 10 days before the Germans marched into France.
Yow! What a good book! More about it coming soon.
The woman in question is Tati Couderc, a forty-five-year-old widowed peasant who runs a farm close to St. Amand in the Bourbonnais region of France.
Tati is unattractive, unkempt and somewhat rough around the edges, but she is also sharp and as tough as old boots.As the novel opens, Tati is taking the bus home from market when a young drifter, Jean, boards the vehicle.
Keen to take possession of this young man, Tati offers him some work on the farm – in any case she needs a hand running the place as her father-in-law is old, deaf and a little senile.
This is quite a different Simenon novel.
It's without Maigret of course, and though it is one of his 'village' novels, it isn't as dark as the others I have read.
Though I suspect that's the great author playing a game with his readers.
Jean is recently out of prison and chooses to settle in the village where X has been recently widowed.
The ugliness of the scene and characters is emphasised, creating an absolute opposite to the scenes he and others created in the 'gardens of France'.
Though I don't think it's one of his best, it does have a very strong finale.
Jean cade in una profonda angoscia, in un’ansia morbosa che lo tengono in bilico tra la gelosia ossessiva della vecchia Couderc e l’attrazione fisica per la giovane Felicie, in un crescendo di drammaticità sottolineato dai cambiamenti atmosferici: da un caldissimo clima estivo, sotto un sole che rende il paesaggio della campagna francese bollente, si passa ai temporali estivi violenti che scuotono animi e paesaggi, fino al fango delle piogge autunnali che ti schizza e sporca fino nel profondo.
Tati a widow, a carnal creature, a woman tired.
Tired of being submissive.
Tired of people controlling her life, specifically her in-laws.
She is now a dominant force and a force to be reckoned with.
She meets Jean and they strike up a 'mutually beneficial relationship.' Tati is feeling somewhat content, more than she ever has.
Jean a societal misfit, fresh out of prison for murder, pleased with the 'no strings attached relationship' with the more than amicable Tati - UNTIL his eyes wander along with his attention...Two outcasts collide and destructiveness is palpable, the tension builds as tragedy looms.
Gide preferred Simenon to Camus. I agree with him.
Well-written and a fast read, but tediously grim, obsessive and limited. Jean is stupid and empty-headed, the Widow is shrewd, the chicks are incubated, Felicie is flaunting her stuff...yawn.
Over the next 150 pages, a story of sex, guilt, poisonous family machinations, and small-scale farming will work its way toward the murder you can see coming from the moment that eye contact is made on the bus.The Widow is among the best of Simenon’s romans durs, his novels that do not involve Detective Chief Inspector Maigret of the Parisian Police Judiciare.
Both short novels feature “…a conscienceless and slightly creepy young man, unattached and adrift, perpetrator of a meaningless murder.” Theroux rates The Widow the better of the two.
'It was odd: there were forty passengers, and only one of them, the widow Couderc, looked at the man any differently than you would have looked at just anybody.The rest were placid and quiet, as it might be cows in a meadow watching a wolf browsing in their midst without the least astonishment.''Twice, and twice only, in the whole of his life, had he known this innocent peace, once when he'd been ill and had ceased to consider school a reality; then again here, this very morning, as he strode towards the village and waited with the gossips behind the butcher's van...'A dissolute young man, son of a rich, philandering distiller, kills a man over gambling losses and is sent to jail.

To jeden z tych przypadków, kiedy wstęp do powieści jest tak samo ciekawy jak sama powieść.
Georges Simenon napisał 400 powieści (!) prowadził przy tym bujne życie towarzyskie, a jego biografowie zastanawiali się jak to było możliwe.
Georges Simenon, o którym nigdy wcześniej nie słyszałam, był pewien, że dostanie nagrodę Nobla i był zdruzgotany, kiedy tak się nie stało.
Camus przeszedł do historii literatury, o Simenonie mało kto słyszał, tymczasem autor wstępu Paul Theroux próbuje nam udowodnić, że niesłusznie zapominamy o tym belgijskim pisarzu.Dobrze, teraz co do samej powieści.
Ponieważ ma takie, a nie inne doświadczenia uważa, że o wszystko w życiu musi walczyć, podporządkować sobie otoczenie wszelkimi sposobami.
I found Felicie to be one of the most beautiful characters that I have ever read and the scene where she fawns over her baby particularly touching.
The ending was completely NOT a shocker because all over the back of the book and in the introduction everybody tell you that the widow gets killed.
I felt no sympathy for her and when she finally gets clobbered to death with a hammer it was kind of a relief.As much as I complain, it really was a good book.
I can't judge a man by reading one book out of his oeuvre (the Belgian penned some 400 tomes in his lifetime).
I even bought nice, bright new bed clothes.
At night I crawl beneath robin's egg blue and lavender bed dressings- and then I open whatever book it is I am reading and I find myself in dark, shadowy, existential terrain- tragedy lurks beneath the craggy moldy surroundings.
I'd like to think it is a somewhat unconscious attempt at balance- and, as usual, I am apt to blame it on that sticky New England guilt that has followed me West.
I think I read somewhere there is a film version, maybe even one starring Alain Delon, but I might just be wishing and hoping.
This book came out at about the same time as Camus' "The Stranger," and, also short, covers similar ground.
But I often (always) see Jean-Paul Belmondo in "Breathless" when I think of "The Stranger," whereas I see the hero of "The Widow" as Gerard Despardieu.
He randomly takes a bus, gets off somewhere to help a woman with her packages (including a large, awkward incubator), and before their meal at her farmhouse is over he has a job as farmhand and a place to sleep in her loft.
But Tati, the widow, has a family of in-laws that challenge this set-up, and soon the world is skewed and innocence has never been there in the first place.
Like many of Simenon's "hard novels" The Widow drops its main character into a trap devised by the author, a dead-end situation from which the only escape is murder and self-destruction.
Both André Gide and Paul Theroux (who wrote the introduction to this edition) make a point of comparing Simenon with Albert Camus.
Simenon was far more successful than Camus, but never he garnered critical acclaim and he resented it.
When Camus won the Nobel in 1957, Simenon was outraged: "Can you believe that asshole got it and not me?" Well, yes.Even so, I have to admit there's something addictive about his writing.
"Reading this book made me very happy and very sad.
At the opening, Jean, who has just gotten out of prison, is walking down a country road.
No possession, no bag, no money.
Not even a stick.
He is totally free of concerns, taking each moment one at a time.
He wants nothing.
He becomes a farmhand, despite his urban upbringing, and delights in being immersed in the daily life, with its small chores, its routines, its smells.
He is completely happy.Eventually life intrudes.
Double-dealing, alternate truth, secret agendas, etc.
Things get complicated ...
and end in disaster."
This is the second of Simenon's "romans durs" (his psychological novels) that I've read, after "Dirty Snow". The introduction by Paul Theroux puts this up at the same level as Camus's "The Outsider", but I don't agree. That Camus novella is one of the most powerful and personally impacting books I've ever read. This Simenon tale certainly has parallels and it is a tremendous psychological study of human interactions and motivations. It also very dark, not really any bright spots in this one (typical Simenon in many ways), but the characterisation is very good indeed.
