https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5198.Paradise
This is my second reading of it and I feel I need at least a couple more before I truly get it; I’m happy with what I gleaned from it this time around, but to put it all down in words is still difficult.Paradise tells the story of the black town of Ruby, Oklahoma, founded by former slaves who find themselves rejected both by white people but also by lighter-skinned black people ("Us free like them; was slave like them.
The central character instead is a town called Ruby where only blacks live and are free of white legislation and a nearby building known as the convent.
If a character who has only had two lines reappears after a hundred pages it’s almost cruel to expect us to remember him or her.
At the beginning, a lynch party of men set out with guns and various other weapons to put an end to the reign of a few mysterious women living in the building outside the town.
The men have managed to convince themselves these women are ungodly.
In fact it’s my least favourite of the Morrison novels I’ve read.
خوندن بهشت با وجود همه هیجان و جذابیتش، کار بسیار بسیار سختی بود و جا داره که یک یا حتی دو بار دیگه بخونمش تا با اطمینان و دقت بیشتری تیکه های پازل داستانی رو کنار هم بچینم و شخصیت ها رو از هم تفکیک کنمموریسون به روال همیشه سراغ سیاهپوستا رفته و از تاریخ خیالی گروهی از سیاهپوستا حرف میزنه که بعد از رانده شدن از جانب سفیدپوستا به نقطه ی دیگه ای مهاجرت کردند و شهری مخصوص خودشون بنا کردند.
It is an incredible novel that incorporates many complex themes, mind shattering symbolisms and an obvious personal investment of experience, echoes of generations gone by and silent whisperings from history that we should heed and never repeat.The idea that a group from any oppressed race can run from their problems, form their own society, and live by their own rules contains within it the basic dangers inherent in utopian thinking.
Is the symbolism involved in how the women of the Convent treated the attacking men of the town only the beginning of another cycle of repression?
I'll list them off so this reverie can be over:1) Not all self-righteous people with a cause are doing it for the right reasons2) Some African-Americans felt just as privileged and pompous as whites3) Dark-skinned African-Americans felt hatred towards lighter skinned ones, although this is misdirected anger4) Fear of integration will only cause unhappiness5) Don't judge a woman without knowing what in her past caused her to act/behave in xyz way, no matter how vulgar you may find it6) Don't judge a book by a well-written synopsis or by the first chapter, no matter how confused you are Of that last lesson: my thoughts on this novel evolved constantly.
Do you feel like you can't understand these characters unless you know which ones are white and which ones are black?
In an interview, Morrison said of her decision to not identify the white girl, "Does it interfere with the story?
There's not explicitly magical, and there are arguably practical explanations for everything.
There are chapters titled with names of women, either the ones in the Convent or in Ruby (i.e. Consolata, Pat, Seneca, Divine aka Pallas, Gigi) but that doesn't mean that character will be the primary point of view for that chapter.
I couldn't help it, I found the book on my shelf and decided to read it along with  The Bluest Eye. Then there I was, reading it and thinking, why was this book not titled, “Beware the Furrow of His Brow,” or “Furrow of His brow,” or, “The Oven?” I won’t spoil it, you will have to read it to see why I say that and you'll probably agree with me (I did hear though, that Toni Morrison wanted to call it, “War” but her editors disagreed).(view spoiler)[The story.
You don’t want people in your town so you come up with a plan to kill them off and hide the bodies?
Toni Morrison is the greatest living American writer. Without a doubt.
(Not to mention I found Love tedious.) Well, I went in as a skeptic and I came out a believer.The first sentence, quoted again and again here on GR, really deserves another show: "They shot the white girl first." It's so perfect, so emblematic of Morrison's ability to write both elegant, haunting, ornate sentences, and--just as skillfully--these jarring, monstrous and clipped phrases that seem so easily comprehensible, but end up being so much more.
Unlike Love, though, this didn't strike me as a novel that sounded like some hack trying to write a Morrison novel.
It genuinely worked through these nuanced topics in ways that I don't think her other novels have (not for better or worse, just differently).
Partly because some other, easier, reads seduced me (a Biggles adventure; a short novella; a Danish thriller; a novel by Pamuk).
And partly because my mother needed more time and attention than before – he has dementia; ten days ago professionals have taken over most of the direct attention my mother needs in her mental state, she is far more at ease now.Daily more then a dozen telephone calls during the last couple of months have not been a good combination with (concentrated) reading.
I really, really loved this book. I have never read Morrison before and now I'm wondering what took me so long. I think her writing is just exquisite. This was not an easy book to read, and I am left pondering many things, but where ambiguity usually leaves me feeling dissatisfied, with this book it somehow feels "right", like I am meant to be thinking about this book long after I have finished it.
I started reading this book because it is Black History Month and I thought it was appropriate to finally, after years of good intention, mark it in some way with my reading.
Perhaps it is worth talking about what I was expecting from this novel.I was expecting to learn something about the African American experience when I read this book.
But Morrison understands the depth of history much better than I do.I wasn’t expecting to learn about goodness, or wisdom, or evil, though I suppose it is the battle between good and bad that is at the centre of most books and so I shouldn’t be surprised I guess.
For them, Ruby is in a state of moral and physical decay, which only a radical rededication to its founding discipline can cure.Tragically the drive to rid themselves of impurity slowly demonizes the odd group of women living outside the town in an abandoned convent.Much of the novel tells the sad, sometimes shocking ordeals these young women endured in a misogynist world before finally stumbling upon this room of their own.If Alice Walker's "The Color Purple" (1982) romanticized the harmonious culture of women in opposition to the contentious world of men, "Paradise" emphasizes that theme in bold italics.
Basta, mi arrendo. Troppi personaggi che entrano in scena senza introduzione; troppi fatti accennati senza venire debitamente sviluppati; troppi riferimenti storici (principalmente riguardanti la comunità di colore) che richiederebbero una conoscenza della storia americana che io purtroppo non possiedo. Peccato, perché la scrittura è sontuosa, ma questa indubbiamente non è una lettura estiva e richiederebbe un lavoro di applicazione e documentazione che al momento non mi sento di intraprendere. Riprenderò il romanzo in un periodo più opportuno. Forse.
This is one of those books that is probably a masterpiece, but to which I could not find the right access. They shoot the white girl first. With the rest they can take their time. These first two sentences are - I think - a strong entry into a novel. Together with the blurb they have convinced me to buy the book. The crime is described in the first chapter, and the rest deals not so much with the question who committed it, but why. Why did the nine men from the small town of Ruby decide to savag
With the rest they can take their time.
The crime is described in the first chapter, and the rest deals not so much with the question who committed it, but why.
What are their motives?To answer these questions Toni Morrison takes a big swing.
One would think this must be a town of "White Trash" people who decided to eliminate some of those outsiders.
Ruby is an all-black town.
I just wish this book had been 100 pages shorter with only half as many people to think about.2⅔ of 5 stars.
They are converted into the original Holy Family by the end of the book - having accepted themselves only to be rejected and terrorized by the fearful men of Ruby who want to keep their town stuck in "Leave it to Beaver" mode forever.
Not to say that women's lit is the only tradition to capitalize on multiple points of view, but oral narratives, and the ways in which oral narratives alter our opinions about people & about the past, seem especially important to so many of the major works by women I've read.If the canon, the written language, has been controlled by men, then spoken language, for women, must be a powerful antidote, especially at the moment when dialogue (understood not only as words between inverted commas but as the intermingling of worldviews & dialects) suffuses the novel.Rather than press these clumsy fumblings any further, I'd rather unpack the words "challenge" and "difficulty," which I've seen many commenters use to describe their experience of reading this novel.What is our physical and emotional response to a text which we -- later -- describe as challenging?
Morrison's depth is downright impressive in her ability to weave such weighted layers in this novel.On my first read I came out with a tenuous understanding of what happened out there in Oklahoma.
She masterfully illustrates how convention, fear, and most importantly shame obscure our eyes from truth by paralleling the Convent women and the townspeople of Ruby.On my third read I ended up focusing on the different forms of pride and the consequences of living a reactionary life.
Additionally, a nuanced understanding of race only supplements the book, it doesn't make or break it.
If they loved it, they had read it two or three times and read/watched numerous interviews with the author as she explained her themes, just so they could understand it.
Anything that might have actually made the story interesting was only hinted at and never explained fully.The first sentence in the book is "They shot the white woman first." In a novel that was all about skin color, I think it is indiciative of the whole style that the reader was left to figure out for themselves which woman was white, until the very last couple of pages.Wanted to finish it and out of pure stubborness, did.Wanted to hate it.
Nobody tells a story quite like Toni Morrison.Paradise, Morrison's first novel post-Nobel is a bit of a departure from her earlier output.
Most noticeably, the breadth and scope of the story are among the most ambitious and complex of her career up to this point.
And in true Morrison fashion, she tells a tale that goes back decades (at times, even further) to capture the mindset and historical ideology of a group of ex-slaves that decided to make their own utopia; a town comprised of fifteen families with deeply-held beliefs and a innate sense of hostility to outsiders and change.But of course, it is much more complicated than that.
I don't think I do."A week later, I knew I didn't.
Morrison has long been lauded for her evocative lyricism, but here more so than in her other novels it seems like she is just too in love with her own language.
And what a trick to play on the reader, when it is revealed that the rocks she had just spent so much time and effort describing didn't even exist.
In addition, Morrison doesn't always seem concerned with whether or not the readers can follow the story.
Each chapter is devoted to the main women in the novel, including the town itself, Ruby.
Ruby is an all-black town in OK, founded by freed slaves.
It is these beliefs that head the town toward the path of destruction when some women, who are not like the citizens of Ruby, move in to the convent on the outskirts of town.
I'll admit, the first few chapters left me wondering what was going on...how did it all connect.
But I have found all of Morrison's novels to be difficult in the beginning, but I felt thoroughly rewarded by the end.
I picked this book up at a Friends of the Library sale and didn't give it much thought... It was a mild read, somewhat sad, somewhat rich.I actually finished the book a week ago and the last chapter has got me still milling over whether I think it's a masterpiece or a flop. Any book that still has me thinking a week later should probably get more than 3 stars.. I might just re-read that last chapter and see if I get it this time.
The beginning of the "Divine" chapter has undoubtedly changed my entire life.
Its opening chapter is really its penultimate one, narrating the story's climax: in July 1976, nine leading male citizens of the all-black town of Ruby, OK, murder five women who are living in a former convent near the town.
To the men of Ruby, the women they hunt are "[b]odacious black Eves, unredeemed by Mary." But Consolata tells us that "Eve is Mary's mother," and the novel ends, very beautifully, with Consolata in the arms of black madonna, presumably like that worshipped in her native Brazil:In ocean hush a woman black as firewood is singing.
I think paradise is a place of welcome and peace and love, and in this book, I think that is what the founders of the town Ruby wanted to create, at a safe distance from racism and related violence vertical and horizontal…But the folks in power are too rigid in defining and seeking to enforce their idea of paradise.
She hoped with all her heart that the women were out there, darkly burnished, biding their time, brass-metaling their nails, filing their incisors.But the novel doesn’t end with this… I think its answer to Ruby’s violence is that paradise is in us & between us in all the ways of love (which is easy and natural and a gift).
Out of the five books I have read so far, I think Paradise is the finest, deepest and best-developed.
Ruby residents' pride is so bold and pronounced that after a point they cannot abide the independence of four mystified women who inhabit the Convent, a mansion several miles away from their purified community.
Then, Morrison has again opted for multiple narratives only this time the characters are outrageously many and it is difficult to keep track of who is who and to whom related.
Now, however, all I can think about is when to make some time to read it again and absorb more details and secrets.
I'm not giving this book any stars because, to be honest, I don't really understand what I just read! There were moments of beauty in this book -- pearls of exquisite writing -- but I just could not follow the story line let alone make sense of the greater meaning. I'll be discussing this with some friends who I hope can enlighten me!
This is the fifth of Morrison's books that I've read, and like all the others, it is beautiful.
It may not seem like it at first--it doesn't transport us into some distant future or faraway place, there's no overreaching government, there's no advanced technology or any of the other typical dystopian devices--but Paradise is a dystopia nevertheless.
I'm not going to provide a plot synopsis.At it's heart, Paradise is about oppression.
My total understanding of this book would be aided by a second read, because I know I did not catch everything the first time.
I don't understand how Morrison is able to write a novel with so many stories intertwined, with so many themes, issues, so much history, and still remain lyrical and arresting with her words.She is too good at this... (check out http://ZoraToniMaya.tumblr.com for full review)
