https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2545.The_Treasured_Writings_of_Kahlil_Gibran
While the size of the book may be intimidating to some readers, I have found that it is best read one or two short pieces at a time.
This is partly because taking it slowly will allow the reader to reflect upon the text, and partly because Gibran's writing is so amazingly approachable that it can be picked up any time without worrying about missing anything.
Other times, it reads like a religious text dictated by a prophet to his followers.
It is easily the most approachable philosophical text—one written in an eloquent and intelligible way that allows the reader to grasp the master's message and pondering.
If you want something to draw inspiration from on a daily basis, this should be in a place you can access it every single day. I can't say I've finished the book in the sense that I've read it front to back, but when I need a little guidance or comfort, I open to a place that resonates with me at that moment. I can't believe I lived so many years without this book.
DNF @90%This book was GOOD, For 2 parts, i REALLY enjoyed Gibran's writing but 3rd part was just not for me!
I recently purchased this book at the general store in my hometown and have not begun a morning without it since.
If you want a book at your bedside for late-night or early morning reading, this is it.
It is a large book at just over 900 pages, but spending an hour or so reading a few poems at a time is the best approach in my opinion.
You will not believe the way that Gibran's poetry and prose reach deep into your soul and evoke a song that evades words.
Do yourself a favor and pick up some of Gibran's writings.
*“ I shall be happy when men shall say about me what they said of Blake: “he is a mad man”.*Gibran romanticized nature and found in it an inspirational power for his poetry. He identified the divine essence with the natural world and established a mystical union with nature, a relationship of love and harmony.
This was the book, I bought after, I got obsessed with The Prophet. Believe me it is a treasure. Its a book with life, The wisdom and thoughts it holds is explosive, It will uplift you break you make you stare into naked truth, Transform the way you think for ever and throw a light on life of humankind and give you a feel of the mind of a mystic. A must read book for deep thinkers.
I think,his writings are gently soporific for me.such an ebb and flow, a rhythmic rocking.A sense of
Great collection of the 'prophets' writings, the only down side is that as thick as it is it is too thin.
This contains almost everything ever written by Kahlil Gibran, short stories and poems. My all time favorite is Broken Wings, which I can read over and over again without getting tired of it.
This book is pure inspiration. A man with the heart and soul of a poet and prophet...the loveliest of marriages.
In truth, The Prophet is a work of such universal appeal that there is little to be gained from speculating on the identity of persons or places represented in it.
For Gibran's purpose was a lofty one, and his belief in the 'unity of being', which led him to call for universal fellowship and the unification of the human race, is a message which retains its potency today as do the messages of all great poets.
Inspired by his experiences in a country far from the land of his origins, he strove to resolve cultural and human conflict, in the process developing a unique genre of writing, and transcending the barriers of East and West as few have done before or since.
(Al-Hadith)Treasury of Khalil Gibran is translated from Arabic by Anthony Rizcallah Ferris.
In this book Gibran Muses over beautiful and not the ugly.
Over the system and not the crime (as the reader can clearly read in Book - 3 “The Criminal”).
I am very disturbed by his love for ‘Death’.
His love for tears as well as his deep sincere affection for death.
Like Beethoven’s deathless music, of which the composer said, “From the heart it has sprung, and to the heart it shall penetrate”.
Same could be believed and said about the writings of Gibran.
The book is Spiritual and philosophical and is a lovely read.
This is a series of Gibran's many poetic masterpieces.gibran touches on the human Condition in many of its forms and phases with such majestic prose. His philosophical and spiritual expressions of love and life are biblical and prophetic.I would recommend reading "The Nature of Love" first(but not necessary)as this is a study of Kahlil Gibran's philosophy and Life,a native Lebonese and much of his work translated from Arabic.
A book to quiet the egoMany have read th r prophet, yet it wasn't till I had read more than just his most famous work did I truly get a sense of how powerful his writing was and is today. This book will have you questioning your movements through not just your own journey but that of the journeys of those whom you interact with most, especially your children.
Beautiful. My own personal views of the Church and Jesus are summed up in The Crucified and I want Song of the Soul to be read at my funeral someday. I always wondered if I was the only one who felt the way I do but found a kindred spirit in Kahlil Gibran. So glad to have found his work. Sums up the Holy Spirit perfectly in today's materialistic world.
Some of the things he writes are so topical, no matter when and where they are set. Other ideas...pretty Utopian and unrealistic. I think that most of the people that really "grooved" on hsi writings in the 60's, 70's were probably a little high on more than life, but it was still nice to listen to.
A literary and philosophical genius. A book in my families possession for years - that i discovered when i hit my 20s. Not a front to back read - but a definate source of inspiration.. Specially in winter - on a cosy sofa- fireplace cat and all.
Beautifully crafted masterpieces...
I have read a number of Gibran's books & have always wanted to read this one. Amazing!
suratnya gitu ya. pukpuk
Never really finished - but really beautiful writing, and wish I still had my copy.
Gibran's poetry always warm up my soul and heart.
And here's an interruption of everything. Got hold of The Treasury of Kahlil Gibran. Everything else I was reading is definately pushed to the side. Love him!!!
One of the best philosophical /poetic works I have read...in times of pain I always go back to Gibran...
just buy it and keep it, anyway, anyhow you can.
I need to organize notes on what I've read by Kahlil Gibran. Will update this when I flip through and see which books exactly I've read.
He shows the tragic and the beautiful elements of humanity through poetry and prose. He is a poet and a philosopher with a true gift.
Pasty, convoluted, whiney, wailing and very little substance.
This is a gem that will make a great bedside read every now and then, a great companion in one's life journey, and a treasure to keep as one embarks on a journey inward.
Let us follow the footprints of Spring into the Distant fields, and mount the hilltops to draw Inspiration high above the cool green plains.Dawn of Spring has unfolded her winter-kept garment And placed it on the peach and citrus trees; and They appear as brides in the ceremonial custom of the Night of Kedre.The sprigs of grapevine embrace each other like Sweethearts, and the brooks burst out in dance Between the rocks, repeating the song of joy; And the flowers bud suddenly from the heart of Nature, like foam from the rich heart of the sea.Come, my beloved; let us drink the last of Winter's Tears from the cupped lilies, and soothe our spirits With the shower of notes from the birds, and wander In exhilaration through the intoxicating breeze.Let us sit by that rock, where violets hide; let us Pursue their exchange of the sweetness of kisses....Winter....Come close to me, oh beloved of my soul; the Fire is cooling and fleeing under the ashes.
