https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139417.A_Kiss_of_Shadows
The writing in this novel was horrible but it was actually the story telling and characterization that made it particularly difficult to wade through.The issue LKH has with taking 200 pages for all of the characters in Anita Blake to argue, discuss and consider her tampon brand is right here for easy access in MG.
She's just a victim here, guys.It's also a disturbing trend that LKH's female characters use their bodies/sex to heal emotional hurts in others because, despite everything healthy and normal, apparently you can do that.If you want to get laid then just give Merry/Anita a sob story about how you're so broken up inside/can't get laid/have some kind of repressed issues etc and she'll most likely sleep with you then.
The crap, obviously *eyeroll* You are so positively clueless it is not even funny anymore, my Little Barnacles.Soooooooo, I totally ♥♥lurrrrrrved♥♥ this super awesome book because:① The Frightfully Futile Fae/Fey/Faeries/Fairies of Freaking Feeblemindedness are Futilely Frightful (FFFFFFoFFaFF™).Yes, I am indeed a fan of the lovely Fae/Fey/Faeries/Fairies/why the bloody fish do these pathetic things have so many names??!!.
It seems that some inconsiderate, uncaring, cruel, hateful, bad people think the FFFFFFoFFaFF™ is a boring, shallow, superficial bunch, and that is so totally like, unfair and stuff.
Such a glorious succession of beautifully beautiful descriptive descriptions of what my dear Fae/Fey/Faeries/Fairies/die die die look like and wear.
Ready?Merry has a boyfriend who used to be a seal and when they had sex he turned back into a seal so she ran away with a guy who has tentacles all over his torso and started to have sex with him but they were interrupted by a hag who she turned inside-out and thus found out that she was wanted back as a princess in her fey court which meant that she needed lots of sexy hunky guards all around because everyone was trying to kill her for some reason so she made a pact with the goblins to help protect her and got herself a goblin follower who ended up biting her while she was having sex with another one of her guards because the queen wanted her to have sex with as many men as she could so she could get preggo and create an heir to the throne.I know, right??This book went on and on.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99: http://amzn.to/2fA5r75Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsLaurell K. Hamilton is consistently a woman ahead of her time.It started with her Anita Blake series back in 1993. Yes, that’s right—1993. I was . . . well, I’m not going to tell you how old I was in 1993, but suffice it to say, I was young enough that my mother wouldn’t want me reading an adult UF series, and that was BEFORE the Big Shift from straight-up UF to UF/erotica that took place in 2001 with book 10.So first Hami
well, I’m not going to tell you how old I was in 1993, but suffice it to say, I was young enough that my mother wouldn’t want me reading an adult UF series, and that was BEFORE the Big Shift from straight-up UF to UF/erotica that took place in 2001 with book 10.So first Hamilton was one of the pioneers in the Urban Fantasy genre (if you could even call it a genre at that time), then she began shifting her writing into the largely unexplored territory of erotica.That shift displeased many of Hamilton’s fans, and she was criticized for lowering the standards of popular fiction in general.
My reverse harem MacHalo peeps, now is the time to get this puppy and go for a buddy read!$2.99 on US Amazon: October 20, 2017https://www.amazon.com/Kiss-Shadows-M...Wow, I did not write a review for this.
Probably because I was in too much of a hurry to start the next book.
I loved this series, although it starts to fade towards the last couple.
It's over the top ridiculous with the reverse harem.
But there is (I thought at least) story also with Merry maneuvering her way through the courts and dealing with her villainous mother (Unseelie Queen) and the Seelie King.
A girl could never have too much jewelry or too much weaponry. Yeah, girl!I'm waffling between 3 & 4 stars, so I rounded up. I saw the synopsis of this book and thought I would read it because I love anything Fae. I'm a Faerie-Lover. I love all of the crazy creatures - the dark and light. I love the folk-lore, and even love Fae politics. So, what would I not like about this book?The only thing I didn't like was how much of a "Faerie-Lover" Merry Gentry is. She is more like a Faerie-whore be
I saw the synopsis of this book and thought I would read it because I love anything Fae. I'm a Faerie-Lover.
So, what would I not like about this book?The only thing I didn't like was how much of a "Faerie-Lover" Merry Gentry is.
She is more like a Faerie-whore because this girl is easier to nail than...
This girl is like public transportation - everyone has taken a ride.But, even though all that is going on, the book is still really good and intriguing.
I couldn't help but loving the creatures of this book.
In this book Hamilton does a wonderful job of creating a strong female protagonist, Merry Gentry, and describes an intricate fairy world that she belongs to, full of strange creatures and filled with political intrigue.
But in order to enjoy Hamilton's skill at describing such people and places, you have to wade through pages of nothing but sex, as her main characters pretty much sleep with anything and everyone around them.I'm far from a prude, but other writers describe sexual beings much better in my opinion, such as Jacqueline Carey.
If this was her first novel--and not just the first in the series--I could understand, but she'd written at least 8 books before this one; if this is what her mature work looks like, I have no interest in reading any of her earlier stuff, and I doubt I'll continue this series either.
The book reads like a trashy romance novel for the reader who also loves fantasy, but it's too slow-paced to really work as the light read to which it seems to aspire.
4.5 It's like "Game of Thrones", but with fairies and sex. I love it.
One of the main reasons she remained under my book radar was because I usually stick to historical romances and even then specific authors of the genre.
Hamilton creates a world that blends multiple genres: fantasy, science fiction, suspense/thriller, and even romance.
I knew it would be an atypical romance, but that fact only left me more engaged in reading the series.
She not only creates an unique world, but she develops intriguing characters, many of which you become attached to from the first book.
If you like strong female characters, handsome hunks, and exploring new worlds, this is the book for you.
But I will say, Queen Andais and Cel are pretty decent antagonists.I think one of the biggest and best things that LKH did was to step away from her vampires-wereanimals story and focus on something completely new.
I loved learning about the goblin society; I liked how a variety of Fae appear (such as Sholto, Tentacle Boy), and Merry isn't necessarily instantly turned off by these different beings.Of course, what also helps this book is that it doesn't pretend to not be 100% about sex.
I did not like the Anita Baker series so I was almost certain I was going to have a problem with this one, turns out I was wrong. This, IMO, is vastly superior to the Anita Baker series, Anita was a ninny hammer I just could not stand so Merry is a bit of a relief.
I finished last night. 1 star. It's too much, yet not really anything at all. Plus, just like Anita, Merry has no women friends. All other women are competition. And much like Anita (who was a Christian virgin right?), Merry has qualms about public sex then proceeds to almost bang guys in very public situations. Just TRYIN TOO HARD to have an actual plot to tie all the sex scenes together.
Laurell Hamilton was one of the authors and I was super stoked!I read the entire Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter series at light speed.
I have to tell you, the ONLY reason I finished reading this book was due to the Anita Blake series.
Meredith Gentry is revealed as the far princess and then summoned to her aunt, the wicked and sadistic Queen of the courts.Being forced to have sex with every available suitor in the Queen’s guard, Meredith and the men in her life have sex frequently for one purpose only, to conceive a child before her cousin, Cel. Whomever conceives a child first, will be named heir to the throne.A race against Cel, a man to be feared already ..
I love her Anita Blake series, and I look forward to reading it again soon.
- Now, I don't mind this because I'm short too, so it makes me feel nice and at home.Anita and Merry both have big boobs.
- Okay, sure, I guess if we all had our wish we'd all have an ample bosom too.But then we start getting a little more ridiculous...Anita and Merry both like their men to be softer looking, more effeminate.
do they have to have the same type?Anita and Merry both like men with longer hair.
She describes the men in so much ridiculous detail I feel like I could go onto The Sims 3 and make myself my very on Frost Sim. It gets a bit much.I do, however, like the men.
I'm not a huge fan of Faerie Urban Fantasy, but, despite my thinking various parts of this were absolutely ridiculous (costumes ripped from low-budget porn, the veritable 'taste the rainbow' aspect of the men, and, um, well, a lot of other things), I did actually enjoy this one. Looking forward to the next and hoping there's less clunky exposition.
In this, a different series starring Merry Gentry, the half-human sidhe princess, everything that irritated me most about Anita was front and centre; the feeling that the heroine is an author avatar for Hamtilon to 'live out' her fantasies, pages and pages of descriptions on the most awful outfits imaginable, the heroine standing around while those around her discuss how beautiful she is, every male she meets lusting after her, and every circumstance dealt with through liberal application of sex, all of which is decidedly unerotic.
There was some interesting world-building going, the foundations of the plot were laid... and then it turned out to be smut. Oh, well, I'd pretty much decided to give up on this author in the middle of her Anita Blake series, so I didn't have high expectations of this one.
I got this as a Kindle freebie and I'd never read Laurell K.
There's a lot of sex, but this is a story about fae politics, so it's all done with a different intent.
Fills one with trepidation when considering continuing with the series.One annoying thing that I hope will change as it goes forward is LKH's tendency to drag a walk down a hallway out for an entire chapter.
Maybe if I hadn't known something horrible and/or amazing was going to happen soon, I wouldn't have been so impatient with those passages, but it is the authors job to compel me not to skim.
Ok, I have to admit, I liked it.I'm not a big fan of so many strange sex partners, but I try to keep an opened mind and not to judge. Plus, there were some... interesting stuff from time to time.What I really liked though was the world builder. The plot was pretty complex and the whole book just seemed to fly by. And seeing that there are (way too many) long, useless passages, that's saying something!So yeah, I enjoyed this book, though it had its strange parts. I'd say it's worth a try at least.
At first, I liked it a lot but as the series progressed the crimes got gorier, the sex got more meaning-less (she just started having sex with everyone), in some ways it became repetitive.
But I got fatigued and did not want to read any more of them as they were, like I said, repetitive and, in some ways, just trying to outdo each other in the gory and sex department.
While some of the story is interesting it was not captivating enough for me to want to read the next book.
This was a re-read and still completely enjoyable. I really do love this dark, sexy faery world. Men with ankle length hair, over six foot tall, hundreds of years old with interesting back stories. And of course the sexy Merry. Cannot wait until I get into the hotter and heavier stuff in the next books.
If her aunt should ever find her, her death will be the least of Merry’s concerns.But it seems that the power is dying in the Unseelie Court and perhaps, just perhaps, Merry has the power to bring life back.The CharactersMeredith “Merry Gentry” NicEssus, half-Seelie and half-Unseelie sidhe, is one of the weakest members of the royal sidhe court and hiding in Los Angeles as a private detective.
Which I fully intend to read thanks to my masochism.Thanks to my friend Cory's review of Blood Noir, Book 16 in the Anita Blake series, a massive group re-read/read has been scheduled for 1 September 2013.
Go here for details, to check it out, or to join up.As I'm not quite masochistic enough to make myself read the Anita Blake series, and I've been thinking about re-reading the Merry Gentry series (which I was conned into the reading with the promise of "It gets better!" 
This is a decent read, it's straddling the line of UF and Erotica as LKH is known to do.
If you've read Anita then you know what to expect from LKH, sex, sex sex and more sex.
At least this series is a bit more up front about it vs Anita.
The story is a bit disjointed I mean pretty much Merry is bed hopping as soon as we meet her and I couldn't figure out why or what the reasoning was behind it.
Other than she is fey and likes sex.The overall plot is interesting in this story to say the least.
This was a big surprise to me. I fully expected to hate it, but it's a very compelling and interesting read! I ended up almost loving it :D I couldn't wait to start book 2[I'm at 20% already]!
Hamilton's work for many years now, starting with the redoubtable Anita Blake.
Where their stories once were tightly knit and well edited, well mixed tales, suddenly the books become morasses of philosophizing by the author--and the story basically starts to erode into mush.
As in Anita Blake's Series.
Tight stories, lots of cool characters and well thought out situations--sadly, Laurell cannot seem to resist the urge to let her stories slip into one on-going sexual romp--and sadly MG is headed this way fast.
Please Laurell, put the reins on...
No se que decir, en serio que es un mundo totalmente diferente, la magia es única.
De todos los mundos mágicos que leí hasta ahora este es uno de los que mas me a gustado, esta serie me gusto mucho.
Estuve dudosa hasta que apareció Mr D.
La chica parece una gata callejera con su encanto.
Me encanto Frost pero espero con impaciencia lo que Mr. D tiene para ella.
Espero que el próximo libro sea menos introductorio a este mundo y se adentren mas a las aventuras dentro y fuera de la cama de M.
This is has been on my book list for quite awhile now, I'm so glad I got round to it, I really enjoyed this book, Merry Gentry is a faerie princess on the run from her own kind trying to murder her, only to be brought back into it, and having chances of her being murdered, but the good news out of it, any choice of man she wants, and what a choice there is, and the bedroom action is knee weakening and steamy hot, can wait to read more of them, and see where it leadsHappy Reading!!!!! xx
