https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1712853.The_West_End_Horror
The West End Horror: A Posthumous Memoir of John H. Watson, MD is a superior Sherlock Holmes pastiche novel by Nicholas Meyer, published in 1976. It takes place after his other two Holmes pastiches, "The Seven-Percent Solution" and "The Canary Trainer" (although it was published between the two.) Holmes solves a double murder in London's West End theatre district.
I'm not going to rate this because I didn't even give it 3 chapters, but it was definitely not for me. I love Sherlock Holmes-- the original as well as some other authors' interpretations and TV and movie adaptions, so I was looking forward to this one. However, the writing was convoluted and the characters were flat and completely unlike the originals (which they were supposed to be, this isn't supposed to be like A Study in Scarlet Women or anything). I'm only marking this as read so I don't pick it up later.
I'm consistently impressed by Nicholas Meyer's Holmes pastiches.
I was only aware of Seven Percent Solution which I read last year.
When I found out about this one I immediately ordered it.
The charactetizations (which to be fair, I usually only read mysteries for the characters - almost never for the detective aspect of the story) are spot on, and the inclusion of several real life personages including Oscar Wilde, and Gilbert & Sullivan were welcome, and a very amusing scene in which Holmes and Watson break into Bram Stoker's apartment and are appalled by his manuscript for Dracula had me smiling.
The author, I thought, captured the voice of Doyle in this 'discovered' case of Holmes and Watson pretty well. Though enjoyable I thought the middle dragged just little bit and I found the act of the crime and resolution just weird. Even so, being transported to Sherlock's world was a good way to spend a few hours.
This is fan fiction, but written more or less in Conan Doyle's style. It's well-crafted and has a few nice plot twists, just like the real thing.I finished it while in London, and spent a happy hour or two at the Sherlock Holmes Museum there.
Meyer does the same thing in this book, where the mystery centers on the theatrical community of the West End. Holmes encounters Oscar Wilde, Bernard Shaw, Henry Irving, Bram Stoker, both Gilbert and Sullivan...the list goes on, which may be part of the problem; yes, all these people associated with each other, but it still starts to sound like name-dropping.But the real problem is that the solution to the mystery is so blindingly obvious that even I figured it out, and I'm terrible at working out whodunit.
I think, if you don't guess the solution, it would seem like a clever twist; as it was, it just felt pedestrian.As pastiche, the book is pretty good.
I enjoyed this Sherlock Holmes pastiche, especially the way it weaved historical figures such as George Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, and Bram Stoker into the action with Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson.
While this novel included a solid mystery (although this definitely is not part of the "Holmes vs.
Jack the Ripper" subgenre, as some reviews I read seemed to imply), an interesting look behind the scenes into London's West End theatre culture at the time, and plenty of connections to the Holmesian canon, Nicholas Meyer provides less insight into the characters of Holmes and Watson than he did in, for example, The Seven-Percent Solution.
"The West End Horror: A Posthumous Memoir of John H. Watson, M.D." by Nicholas Meyer" is another great Holmes mystery by the author of "The 7 Per Cent Solution". This time Holmes and Watson take on a murderer in the West End theatre district and meet, along the way, a bevy of literary suspects including: George Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, Bram Stoker, and Gilbert & Sullivan, among other cameos. Great fun (especially if you can catch the rather witty literary references that abound) and a solid murder mystery. Bravo, Nick Meyer!
This is a delightful Sherlock Holmes pastiche by Nicholas Meyer, who also wrote The Seven Percent Solution. Deftly he weaves together historical events and people to create a fun romp through the London of Holmes and Watson. Included in the cast are George Bernard Shaw, Oliver Wilde, Henry Irving, Ellen Terry, Gilbert and Sullivan, and the author of Dracula, Bram Stoker. And Holmes and Watson are their redoubtable selves. Authur Conan Doyle would be proud.
Definitely one of the better Holmes pastiches that I've read, perhaps even one of my favorites actually. The whole book had a really nice flow and good imagery, I also liked how it didn't take itself too seriously (anyone who reads the book will understand what I mean), the storyline was also intriguing. I had a hard time putting the book down, and each chapter had me excited for what would come next.
Enjoyed this tale, told in keeping with the spirit and intelligence of Doyle. A short mystery that begins with Bernard Shaw shows up at Holmes' place asking if he would solve a murder. Basically, short and enjoyable.
Despite the title it's more mystery than horror, I think. It captures some of the neat stuff about the original Sherlock Holmes stories. It's a fun read.
Fans of Holmes who - inevitably - yearn for more of his exploits, and fans of Meyer who enjoyed his first Holmes novel or the popular film based on it, will both be satisfied by this work.The challenge for "Sherlockians" (fans of the Holmes literature who take it seriously) who "play the game" (assert it is all factual, and thus must account for every historical reference and seeming contradiction in the canon) is filling in the gaps in Holmes's biography as discerned in the Conan Doyle corpus; for those who would write the history that fills those gaps, there is also the matter of explaining how they know what Dr. Watson did not.
The man writes more like Arthur Doyle than Doyle did himself; I try to match Doyle's style in my first work, but Mr. Meyer has hit the absolute bull with this one.
I had seen little of his work before; the film version of The Seven Percent Solution, naturally - if you have yet to see this you aren't a complete Holmes fan by any means (Argue that among yourselves, please...) and this book just shines with the same light.
Go out to the bookshops at once; then give up, return home and order a copy online.
If lucky, you'll get a fairly minty copy such as mine...
My favorite part of Nicholas Meyers' Sherlock Holmes pastiches is always the forward: he spends the first few pages of each book going "OK OK GUYS HERE'S A LEGIT SHERLOCK HOLMES STORY AND HERE'S ALL MY EXCUSES FOR WHY IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE ONE.
"And it really doesn't feel like a Sherlock Holmes story.
The mystery is quite good, and it's fun to see these characters portrayed in a more light -hearted way and to pretend they were real and interacted with other famous figures in history.
Good fun, I say.

This was a fun romp, with Holmes and Watson going from one part of the West End theater community to the other, and a fairly well crafted mystery.
If I had any complaints, it's that the major events that take place are all summarized at the very beginning, and I called who the culprit was - but that may have had more to do with other Goodreads reviewers saying that was obvious, leading me to look more closely for their identity.
The how and why I didn't guess, though, and they turned out to be both shocking and surprisingly moving.
It was a good Sherlock / Watson case. What I dont like is that each "new" SH adventure have to be a nation-threatening one. I understand that the escales have to be big, but some of the best Holmes stories were small cases. And if they were big (like The Sign of The Four) they werenn nation-threatening, so I dont understand why new writers try to do this.As for the case, it was entertaining. A good portrayal of Holmes and Watson almost always gives us a good story (if the writer knows what makes
What I don´t like is that each "new" SH adventure have to be a nation-threatening one.
And if they were big (like The Sign of The Four) they weren´n nation-threatening, so I don´t understand why new writers try to do this.As for the case, it was entertaining.
A good portrayal of Holmes and Watson almost always gives us a good story (if the writer knows what makes the characters tic then he can write a story akin to that; and the case didn´t disappoint, it was a good story, nor too short nor to lengthy.If you like Holmes give this one a try.
(I've known many a West End Horror in my day but that is a tale for another time.
I had already read one of Meyer's previous Holmesian efforts, The Canary Trainer, and really enjoyed it.
I was delighted to find a copy of The West End Horror, and really enjoyed reading it as well.
The novel is steeped in the lore of Holmes and Watson, and features a fantastic supporting cast that includes Oscar Wilde, Gilbert and Sullivan, Bram Stoker, and Henry Irving.
Meyer makes all of this work plus he gives us a good slowly unfolding mystery.
I really like Nicholas Meyer and Sherlock Holmes, so I wished I liked this book more. It doesn't have the fell of a Sherlock Holmes mystery and the inclusion of historical figures from the time just seems like a gimmick, rather than an organic part of the story.
All the fun of a Sir Arthur Conan Doyle - Sherlock Holmes story, with notable literary and social figures thrown in, and a compelling story built around real life issues of the day. Must read his other books.
I'm a Sherlockian, and I enjoy a pastiche..especially one as well-written as this. Faithful to The Canon and the era, and faithful to Watson's writing style makes this little gem a delight to read. Wish I had gotten around to this book earlier (published 1976).
42 WORD REVIEW:Unlike so many of the wannabe Sherlock Holmes writers now unleashed upon the world, Meyer captured much of Arthur Conan Doyle’s tone and style, his pastiche cheapened only by an unseemly predilection for shoehorning Holmes and Watson into meeting famous historical personages.
An interesting and fairly early novel of Sherlock's literature. I have not read The Seven Per Cent Solution by the same author, but I did enjoy this novel. It flowed well and kept my attention, which has been a difficulty of late.
A nice Holmes pastiche. I quite enjoyed the random footnotes about what was on the page. Worth a read for Holmes fans.
Another fantastic Holmes pastiche by Nicholas Meyer. Brilliant cast, perfect plot twists, and a surprising resolution.
A fine entry into the genre of Sherlock Holmes reimagined. Horror does not begin to describe the denouement
In many ways this was better than THE SEVEN-PER-CENT SOLUTION; Holmes in particular is more true to his character in Doyle's stories (though he wasn't too far off in the first book).
And the mystery Holmes and Watson are trying to solve is much more compelling here (delightfully scary in spots, too).
But I think the writing style is not quite as spot-on here, and I wish the setup for how the "new" story was found had been better--it already felt formulaic, even with just one other book.
Now I just have to keep my eyes peeled to see if I can find the final book.
As a Sherlock Holmes short story: OK. The theatre-related cameos are fun.3.5 stars
J'ai beaucoup aimé ce pastiche !Je n'en lis pas beaucoup, préférant de loin les oeuvres de Conan Doyle, et aussi parce que le peu de pastiches que j'ai pu lire en VO n'étaient pas aussi bons que ça (j'ai lu 3 romans de la collection "The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes", et honnêtement, ils ne sont pas aussi géniaux que je l'espérais ; j'ai lu aussi les 2 premiers romans d'Amy Thomas, qui eux étaient un poil meilleurs pour le coup, mais toujours avec ce petit quelque chose de manquant), et j'étais donc assez réticente à me lancer plus que ça dans ce genre de lecture, jusqu'au jour où je suis tombée sur le post d'Archipoche annonçant la (re)publication cette semaine de ce livre de Nicholas Meyer (ayant republier deux autres de ses romans dans la même collection en 2010 et 2014).
