https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2376114.In_Hazard
The demographic of one.Richard Hughes' seafaring adventure In Hazard clearly benefits from my fear of water.
This may surprise many of you who know me, but I am not a steam ship captain of the 1930s.
Richard Hughes, however—owing to some sort of epic misunderstanding of Three's Company proportions—seems to believe I'm well-versed in the nomenclature and mechanics of steam ship travel.
In the first half of the book in particular, he speaks casually about all kinds of gadgets and whatchamacallits that keep a ship running and presupposes of his readers a working knowledge of their general operation.
Considering it starts out like the technical chapters of Moby Dick, without bothering to tell you what any of the technical terms being used actually mean, this is one kick ass book.
Although the middle sections read like an adventure tale, the meat of the book is the stories of the crew, and what they've already been through before they get into this mess.
Here's a crash course on 'reading like a professor': just because a character says or thinks racist things doesn't mean the book is racist.
This book is based on the true story of the Phemius, a ship which was sucked into the circular trajectory of a hurricane in 1932.
The captain’s report of the experience so intrigued the Holt Line owner that he gave a copy to Richard Hughes (A High Wind in Jamaica) who turned it into this novel.The ship was the well-cared-for Archimedes with a very competent captain and crew.
that gives you a good idea of the superstructure and funnel which was lost in the 1932 hurricane.
In it, he quotes Ford Maddox Ford as describing Hughes writing as so good as to be almost inhuman.
It's a strange book, starting out by listing all the factual attributes of the ship, its engagement with a mysterious storm, the horror of being caught several days literally trapped IN a hurricane detailed day by day and then dropping the outside manner to go inside many of men on the ship.
All the character wander about with their motivations for the reader to see and then the storm ends, the final fight to preserve the ship occurs and there is a strange feeling, not of relief but of impending doom (perhaps like "Bel Canto" in which the characters spent so long under siege they forgot what life was like before) as the ship is brought to shore.
very quick, quirky read from delightfully odd writer.
Schiffe (da beweglich) sind in diesen geographischen Breiten weniger gefährdet als Regierungsstellen (da unbeweglich).“Zu Beginn des ersten Teils herrscht noch ein heiter gelassener Tonfall, Hughes führt die Figuren ein und lässt mit viel Witz und Geist Beobachtungen und Bemerkungen einfließen, wie der Leser es schon aus „Sturmwind aus Jamaica“, seinem ersten Roman kennt.Aber aus dem Sturm wird überraschend ein Hurrikan, und schon bald zeigt sich, dass die Archimedes trotz ihrer Widerstandsfähigkeit und trotz der qualifizierten Mannschaft zum Spielball der Naturgewalt wird und sich alles auf die Frage reduziert, ob die Mannschaft überleben wird.Es gelingt Hughes, die unvorstellbare Gewalt des Hurrikans so zu beschreiben, dass der Leser sich an Bord der Archimedes versetzt fühlt und Teil hat am Überlebenskampf der Mannschaft.
Als die Archimedes im Auge des Hurrikans ankommt, kann zum ersten Mal seit Sturmbeginn eine Bestandsaufnahme gemacht werden:„Zum ersten Mal, seit dem Höhepunkt des Sturms, konnten sie das Schiff vom Heck bis zum Bug überblicken.
You may well wonder how the writer is able to sustain the narration of one single natural event over such a span, how he can maintain such a high pitch without sacrificing quality?
Maybe it's a lost art among modern generations of writers, but Hughes' prose has an assurance and fluidity - an aplomb - that you don't see much of any more among today's stuttering amateurs.
P.S. Apparently, In Hazard is based on the true story of the Phemius, a ship which was caught up in a ferocious hurricane in 1932.
But everyone else was pretty boring."At first Sukie had blazed in Dick's mind, lighting every part of it: but now already, after two days, she had contracted and receded like the opening by which you have entered a tunnel: turned more unearthily bright than the broad day, but very distant and small and clear.""It is wonderful how the free busting of anything, especially valuable stuff, goes to your head."Dick and Ao Ling, perfectly ordinary boys who happen to be fucking each other?:"Like most young white men, he had not really looked on the Chinese as human until he had touched one.
Dieses Buch ist sehr temporeich geschrieben. Es geht um ein Schiff, was 1929 in einen schweren Hurrikan auf See gerät und dort versucht nicht unterzugehen. Es ist eine fiktive Geschichte, aber höchst dramatisch und kenntnisreich geschrieben. Die Protagonisten gehen auch ans Herz und ich konnte das Buch nicht beiseite legen. Für Abenteuer- und Marineliteraturfreunde ein Muss.
Experience the awesome power of a hurricane from the comfort of your chair. Gripping, powerful.
Kovaonninen Archimedes joutuu Tyynellämerellä vuonna 1924 myrskyyn, jollaista kenenkään merimiehen ei pitäisi kokea.Kohtuullinen kirja merenkulusta, höyrylaivoista, monikansallisen miehistön haasteista ja laivan komentoketjusta. Selviytymistarina ja yksi tapa tehdä pojista miehiä -opas 🤣Parempi kirja Richard Hughesilta kuin Rajumyrky Jamaikalla, joka sekin oli meriaiheinen.
Obgleich die Hurrikan-Saison als überstanden gilt, dauert es nicht lange, bis der moderne Dampfer – wie es der Titel schon andeutet – in Bedrängnis gerät.Doch nicht nur der Glaube, dass das Wetter nach von Menschen erfundenen Regeln spielt, erweist sich als irrig; auch alle anderen Annahmen und Gesetzmäßigkeiten scheinen außer Kraft gesetzt: Der Hurrikan, mit dem sich die Crew konfrontiert sieht, spielt nicht nach den Lehrbuch-Regeln.
Die minutiös aufgeführten Eigenschaften der Archimedes legen präzise dar, warum es (theoretisch) zu keinerlei Überraschungen oder Widrigkeiten auf hoher See mehr kommen kann.Als sich dieser Glaube als Trugbild erweist, wird das Vertrauen in die Technik mit den Wellen weggespült.
Setting: Steamship in a hurricane, somewhere near the Carrebian sea, in November 1929Story told in past tense.
I am not very fond of stories in past tense, but this story sometimes surges you in like the storm itself.
The story tells about a steamer, the Archimedes, and their crew, who get stuck into a huge hurricane for about five days.
During the storm, the writers tells about the live of some of the crew members, why they became seaman, and how they stand to God.The book has two parts.
So, if ever someone founds this book good enough to republish, I would recommend a good editing.
A short but excellent novel by a sadly under-read Welsh author, "In Hazard" owes something to Joseph Conrad's "Typhoon" but comes at the storm and story with a curious blend of scientific realism and humane whimsy. I have rarely read an author who is less predictable in how long he will keep a character alive. The result is a literary world in which, truly, anything can happen to anybody. At the same time, the characters are developed with a loving depth and sympathy. Hughes wrote only four novels. He should have written more.
I thought a good sea adventure story might be a refreshing change. Despite a few digressions into his characters' origins that distract more than they illuminate, Hughes does his best to elevate the genre to literary heights. He certainly captures the minute-to-minute terror or going through a five-day hurricane aboard a destroyed steamer ship. The omniscient first-person narration is praised in the introduction, though I found it intrusive and, at times, cloying. Next up in my High Seas Syllabus -  The Sea Wolf by  Jack London.
Not sure what I just read here. Would not recommend. To anyone.
After reading A High Wind in Jamaica last year, this was a real disappointment. Though there are a few memorable passages, In Hazard is just a spotty mess.
For my complete review, go here:http://mookse.wordpress.com/2008/09/1...
A promising plot that devolves into random hallucinations. Strange.
Melville could do it, but Hughes could not.
In the end none of them seem to have learned anything from this encounter, about the sea or about themselves, and the way Hughes dealt with the Chief Engineer made me laugh from the sheer fumbling bathos of the moment, a cheap and blatant attempt to evoke empathy from the reader.If you want to read a wonderful real-life story of a naturalist’s journey on a small whaling ship in the early years of the 20th century, with storms and ice and endless days at sea, look for Robert Cushman Murphy’s Logbook for Grace.
This is a fine exciting novel, written in the late 1930s and based on a true incident that took place in the late 1920s, when a cargo freighter was trapped for five days in a vicious Caribbean hurricane. By luck or Grace, it somehow came through, even while losing its funnel. Vivid and action packed, with a exact attention to detail concerning shipboard life and kind attention to the characters, it also has an excellent introduction by John Crowley. The narrative wanders away at one point--in ways that I appreciated, though other readers may not. Regardless, I highly recommend it.
Not what I expected: Theis "novel" reads like a non-fiction report of the shipping accident. Very detailed with a great emphasis on making technical details understood but with shallow stereotypical characters, a cliché subplot and racist undertones.
This is a master class of descriptive writing: a cargo-steamer caught in a freakish hurricane. But the English-speaking crew and, one fears, the author, have too little regard for the Chinese members of the crew.
Very strange book. Five full days of disaster on a steamer picked up and carried by a hurricane. Just when I thought I can't take more of the hurricane, the writer inserted short flash-backs of individuals. I have enjoyed reading the book.
It tells the story of a British cargo ship, the Archimedes, caught in a seemingly endless hurricane as the ship makes for the Panama Canal from the Eastern Seaboard of the United States.The story, set in 1929, takes place between the two world wars, and, in fact, was originally published in 1938.
You would feel the delicate skeleton scrunch under your feet: but you could not help it, and the gummed feathers hardly fluttered.No bird, even crushed, or half-crushed, cried.”As the Archimedes is pulled back into the storm, the book abruptly changes.
Das auf jeder Schifffahrt das latente Risiko von Krankheiten lauert und gar das Vabanquespiel mit dem Tod eingegangen wird ist für die einen ein zusätzlicher Ansporn und Adrenalinkick währenddem ängstlichere Gestalten diese düsteren Gedanken verdrängen.
Der Glaube und das Vertrauen in den technischen Fortschritt ist ungebrochen, auch als die Archimedes in einen unerwarteten Sturm gerät der sich zu einem heftigen Hurrikan entwickelt verlassen sich alle vertrauensvoll auf ihr unsinkbares Schiff.
Ein tagelanger, kräftezehrender Kampf mit den Naturgewalten um die eigene Existenz beginnt...Man merkt an der Art und Weise wie die Geschichte geschrieben ist und erzählt wird, dass es sich um einen Roman handelt der schon vor einem Dreivierteljahrhundert erstmals publiziert wurde.
Caught in an unremitting struggle for survival, both the crew and the ship will be tested as never before.Based on detailed research into an actual event, Richard Hughes’s tale of high suspense on the high seas is an extraordinary story of men under pressure and the unexpected ways they prove their mettle—or crack.
Yet the originality, art, and greatness of In Hazard stem from something else: Hughes’s eerie fascination with the hurricane itself, the inhuman force around which this wrenching tale of humanity at its limits revolves.
The owners of the steamer thought that its story was so extraordinary, so fantastical, that it had to be set down in text and never forgotten.
They called Richard Hughes.Hughes did the story justice.
It’s an excellent choice if you are wavering between reading moods.This was my second Richard Hughes book in a row, so I felt extremely comfortable with his style.
One regret was the abrupt ending, which caused me to hungrily read the Afterword as if it were part of the story.Teetering at 4.5 stars -- I want to reread it before I can give it 5.* Phemius, in reality, but I like the fictional name better.
The rain-drops bounced on the water, making a surface like the dewy gossamer on a lawn: like wool.
It was as if the naked sea were growing hair.Like many young lovers, he confused a girl with God: and he could almost imagine her now, watching him, out the the sky; watching him die, and pitying him.For in the long run, if you want to say how much of a chap there is you can only measure his memory.
The more he has in his memory the more of a chap there is.
A terrifying account of an otherwise modern, sturdy, and well-kept steam freighter caught in a random, out of season, maximum force hurricane in the Caribbean.
While the crew is fictionalized for dramatic purposes, this is very closely based on the true story of the Phemius, which in November of 1932 was caught in the aforementioned storm.
It's crazy that things like this happen.There are instances where Hughes tries to give us insight toward a select few of the crew members by delving into their past.
In my opinion, Hughes should've remained on the "man vs.
nature," and less on the "man vs.
man.
