https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8732.The_Red_Pony
From the look of the cover and title, you'd think you'd be reading a happy little novella about a boy and his horse, but it's so much more than that.The Red Pony is a collection of four short stories about a 10-year-old boy named Jody and his life on a ranch with his family.
As time moves forward and he matures, Jody is exposed to multiple events and learns many lessons on what it means to be a man.
A story about a pretty, pretty precious pony?
Yes, these are tales of living on a ranch in the early days (well, early-ish) of California, but underneath they are more of the same Steinbeck: the vignettes of the hardscrabble life of immigrant farmers.
Steinbeck captures well the emotions and perspective of a child feeling his way in a world that is changing for him, new understandings that jab at young folks daily like minor revelations.
The Red Pony reads like a collection of related short stories.
It definitely doesn't feel like a complete novel with a plot, climax and satisfying finish.
The lonely boy walks a mile to school every day, nothing changes in the harsh, dull territory, until after his father and Billy Buck, return from a trip to the city of Salinas, to sell cows, bringing a gift to Jody, a beautiful, amazing, red pony, his own horse, the ecstatic child promises to take good care of the animal, with the help and knowledge of Billy Buck.
The stories in the book are tales of a boy named Jody Tiflin.
The book has four different stories about Jody and his life on his father's California ranch.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه اکتبر سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: اسب سرخ؛ اثر: جان اشتاین بک؛ مترجم: مهدی افشار؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، اکباتان، 1353، در 144 ص، چاپ دوم 1362، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی سده 20 مجودی پسرک آرام و کمرویی ست، که در یک مزرعه زندگی میکند.
روزی پدرش اسب سرخی را به همراه میآورد، تا مال جودی باشد.
کتاب شرح مراقبتها و احساسهای جودی به اسب سرخ است.
هرچند در ادامه ی داستان اسب سرخ میمیرد و قرار است «نلی» اسب ماده ی مزرعه باردار، و کره اش به جودی برسد.
Next time you decide to make a printing of The Red Pony, feel free to borrow one of these free blurbs.
"Do you like people hanging around on a farm?
Do you like horses and animals and stuff?
It has horses, and grass, and farms and stuff, and is an easy read."Or:"John Steinbeck is a writer of amazing stature in American literature.
He stands head and shoulders above just about anyone, wiping his feet on Faulkner, flicking Mark Twain out of his way like a little bug.
Oh, wait, The Red Pony?
That's like changing the name of Star Wars: A New Hope to Greedo.
What were you thinking, John?"
I went on to finish the last 3 chapters which were nearly as depressing as the first one.
I felt the father character Carl Tiflin was particularly heartless and Billy Buck, the hired hand, a bit disappointing in that despite his supposed knowledge or horses and weather, he blows it nearly every time with Jody.
It was unfortunate that the book stops so suddenly as well, I was left wanting to see Jody grow up a bit.
Those fried eggs and hot cakes by Mrs. Tiflin do sound yummy, and it was interesting to see a slice of life from pre-war times out west.
I don't think I could read a Steinbeck novel by the fire with a glass of wine.
That's the power of his writing, his characters and settings; he will draw you in, even if you don't want to be.
Not much fun inside a Steinbeck novel, at least the ones I've read.
That kind of power is on display here in The Red Pony.
When the pony bites young Jody's hand, you wince with his pain.
This novel is broken down into three somewhat different stories, and the red pony only appears in the first which I thought a bit odd.
The other sections dwell on different topics.
HORSE-LOVERS: DON'T READ THIS BECAUSE YOU THINK IT WILL BE ABOUT HORSES AND DON'T REVIEW IT SAYING THAT THAT'S WHAT YOU EXPECTED BECAUSE I JUST WARNED YOU.
I am sorry if you were forced to read this book for school - it would really take the beauty out of it if someone forced you to read The Red Pony.
It is beautiful, and at times, frightening.
I think people who have not been/do not know the midwest or the country well should read this book - it will be a new experience for you, and show you a different way of life.
I was completely blown away by this short novel.
The Red Pony isn't what I would call one cohesive novel, but rather a collection of several glimpses into the farm/ranch life of Jody.
The whole point of the pony is that Jody is learning to grow up, and he's learning that life isn't all rainbows and butterflies.
Steinbeck's writing is so vivid, I just got completely lost in the story.
You don't have to think so much about reading the text; Steinbeck's focus is not superfluous language but rather he wants you to focus on the point of the story.
Μπορεί η ιστορία να μην ήταν κάτι το ιδιαίτερο, αλλά ο Steinbeck έχει ένα ξεχωριστό ταλέντο στο να αφηγείται και να δημιουργεί σκηνικά πολύ οικεία στον αναγνώστη.
4 ιστορίες με πρωταγωνιστή τον μικρό Τζόντυ και τη ζωή του στο ράντσο.4 θλιβερές ιστορίες,γεμάτες με σκληρές αλήθειες για τη ζωή,τους ανθρώπους και τη φύση.Η ικανότητα του Steinbeck να προκαλεί τόσο μεγάλη θλίψη,που φτάνει μέχρι την ψυχή,χωρίς να χρησιμοποιεί μελό συναισθηματισμούς,είναι ένας από τους λόγους που τον θαυμάζω τόσο πολύ.Πέρα από το να δημιουργούν κόμπους στεναχώριας στο στομάχι,οι ιστορίες αυτές "ζωγραφίζουν" τη ζωή εκείνης της εποχής στα ράντσα και μεταφέρουν τον αναγνώστη στην Αμερική των αρχών του εικοστού αιώνα,δημιουργώντας μια περίεργη νοσταλγία για έναν τρόπο ζωής που ούτε ζηλευτός είναι,ούτε σχέση έχει με το δικό μας παρελθόν.
This was not an enjoyable reading experience, to say the least - except for that baffling "you must be kidding" sentiment at the end of each short story/chapter.
Spoiler alert - I'm going to tell you the plot and spare you reading this yourself: Chapter 1: Boy gets pony.
Book Ends.My most common reaction was "are you kidding me?!" I mean, pretty much at the end of each short story/chapter I was left saying those exact words - it just unnecessary killing off of people or things of meaning to this young boy, and then no extra explanation or reason or working it in to the broader context.
I love this book. It's short, succinct, and encapsulates the dramatic, but realistic suffering side of life in three ways: the red pony, the black colt, and Jody's relationship with adults.The Red Pony's also peppered with moments of human courage, brilliance and love. Jody's devotion to the red pony is sweet, and his idolization of Billy Buck is, I think, a realistic representation of how boys look up to men.
I hated this book when I was required to read it, and as it was I remember reading it alone in the library in 7th grade and writing a paper because the class was reading a book I had already read. Suffice to say I'm enjoying Steinbeck more now.
However, what made it a little bit interesting and special, at best unforgettable, can be attributed to one simple man who goes by the name of John Steinbeck, whose unassuming, not over a hundred pages, little book tilted The Red Pony is the ticket all I ever need to beckon me back to that country called the classics, to which I, as of late, has become a foreign to; the wine that stirred in me awe and inspiration, that afterwards hurl me into a deep drunken appreciation; the soft whisper that remind of the delights ad travails of being human.The Red Pony tells the story of “the boy Jody,” seemingly a partly autobiographical character who is seen through different phases of life at his father’s ranch.
Sure I had read Of Mice and Men and Grapes Of Wrath in High School, but that was a number of years ago, and I can hardly remember either.I found The Red Pony (a mass market paperback edition) all worn and hidden on one of the bookshelves in the classroom I work in.
The Red Pony is 4 short stories.
Sure it's simple, and it's off-putting to people who think it's actually about horses, but the descriptive nature of Steinbeck's writing really bring to life the lonesome Salinas valley, as well as the characters who lived and worked there.
It was their great sorrow to not have a societal mandate of their own, some great expression of the human spirit meant for their age.I think that is why the novel resonates.
If they were already feeling this way a hundred years ago, maybe it helps to explain why people feel the way they do now.
In the age of the internet and cell phones and social media we see that it's all been done before.
It also explains why Science Fiction and Fantasy are now such immensely popular genres.
توصیفات اشتاین بک تو داستانهاش هرچند قشنگ ولی بعضی وقت ها خیلی خسته کننده است. کتاب اسب سرخ یه محموعه داستانه که به نظرم نصفه نیمه اومد، یعنی محور داستان حول و حوش جودی پسر بچه خانواده ، شکل زندگیش، خانواده اش و از همه مهم تر اسبیه که قراره داشته باشه ولی عملا این داستان نصفه میمونه ، بیشتر شبیه یه اتود بود که نصفه کاره مونده و رمان نشده
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
:چهار داستان کوتاه اما پیوستهره آورد-کوه های مرتفع-قول-رهبر خلق
halfway into my morning hike there's a small trailer off the side of the trail and the guy who lives there leaves out a bucket of fresh water for passing dogs.
he then pulls his face from the bucket and for the next thirty yards or so leaves two thin trails of water dripping down from either jowl.
Jody was proud then, for he knew that was the way to judge a horse.
Poor horses only touched their lips to the water, but a fine spirited beast put his whole nose and mouth under, and only left room to breathe."jack is a 'fine spirited beast', yes sir.
Well.....this Steinbeck classic was not at all what I was expecting.
It depicts the dark side of ranch life and the dreadful way animals are treated, sometimes out of necessity (but still hard to stomach) and other times out of down right meanness and cruelty.I did not care for father Carl or his young son Jody (at times) and felt sorry for horses, dogs, cats, birds, the old lonely wandering man Gitano coming home to die, and the treatment of Jody's aging grandfather.Of course, the purpose behind this story is to show the many tough lessons of life young Jody has yet to learn as he comes of age, but from my perspective, I'm sorry to say, this novel was pretty much a downer from start to finish with only a few enjoyable moments interspersed.
Only 100 pages, but a long discomforting read.
(especially if you're an animal lover)
I've learned not to feel guilty about not liking books by great authors. With that being said, I give this book a 2-star rating with no feelings of remorse. It's not a terrible book, I just never really connected with the story. In all honesty I was quite underwhelmed, considering how much I enjoyed Of Mice and Men. I will definitely be reading more of Steinbeck, I'm sure I'll enjoy his others a lot more than this one.
Καλό βρε παιδί μου.....αλλά δεν με άγγιξε....
John Steinbeck’s The Red Pony is a sweet book about a ten-year old boy named Jody who lives with his family on a ranch near the Gabilan mountain range in northern California.
There is nutrition for the soul as Jody is given a pony and learns up close the meaning of life as it sows courage and doubt and trust and belief in his heart.I especially admire the depictions of dogs and horses.
Only you and the characters make up your mind of the meanings.Thanks to Mischenko for bringing The Red Pony to my Attention.
Μία πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα και πολύ συγκινητική ματιά στη ζωή σε ένα ράντσο στην Καλιφόρνια μέσα από την οπτική γωνία ενός δεκάχρονου παιδιού που όπως όλα τα παιδιά της ηλικίας σου ακόμα έχει την ικανότητα να βλέπει τον κόσμο πιο αγνό και πιο όμορφο, ένα μέρος σχεδόν μαγικό.
Μέσα από τις σελίδες αυτού του βιβλίου βλέπουμε τη ζωή του μέσα στο ράντσο που γρήγορα εμπλουτίζεται από ένα κόκκινο πουλάρι που κερδίζει την καρδιά του την ώρα που το βλέπει και ως ένα μέσο για να περάσει στο επόμενο στάδιο της ζωής του.
Steinbeck writes beautifully. It doesn't matter what he's writing about, I think I'd read it anyway for the measured, deliberate, crystal-clear prose.The Red Pony is not really about the pony. I'm sure as a lit student I could find a lot to say about it, but I'm happier sitting back and letting it happen. It's about growing up and coming to understand life, in stages, and as such it has no end: Jody's a little older and wiser at the end than the beginning, but he has a long way to go still too.
The Red Pony takes place on a farm (and for those of you who have never spent time on a real farm, I can tell you that life is hard and nature is cruel).
The last section in this series of tales in Jody's life is the most poignant of all for me, because when the life of hard times is spent, there is not even any room for remembering and softening the edges of the past.I found each of the stories within the story to be pregnant with meaning.
Steinbeck knows exactly what he wants to say and he knows exactly when he has said it.
Having known Steinbeck usually goes from bad situation to worse, I was not expecting a heartwarming horse story a la Misty of Chincoteague when I picked up The Red Pony.
If you hated the movie Spirit, you'll be pleased.The Red Pony is a collection of four short stories, each involving a boy named Jody and his family on their ranch.
In the first story, Jody gets a red pony.
In the second, a stranger comes to the ranch.
In the third, Jody cares for an expecting mare.
All of the stories are more about people than any pony.
The Red Pony is a well-written and beautifully descriptive book about a young boy, Jody, and his life while being raised on a ranch in northern California. The stories in this classic literature covers the lessons Jody learns about life, death, ways of nature and, particularly, the ways of man.John Steinbeck describes the life on the ranch so well and vividly. These stories appear simple at the start, but as we go further we realize that they are deep and highly meaningful.
