https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1038979.If_Only_They_Could_Talk
Apart from being incredibly entertaining, Herriot’s books also offer a historical perspective at the practice of veterinary science that was followed in Britain during the time period.In ‘If Only They Could Talk’, the first book in a series of his semi-autobiographies, the reader gets acquainted with a young James Herriot, just out of veterinary college, taking up a rural practice in the town of Thirsk, Yorkshire during late 1930s.
He joins as an assistant to the eccentric 'Siegfried Farnon' – based on the actual veterinary surgeon ‘Donald Sinclair’ under which James Wight originally practiced in Thirsk - the veterinarian in ‘Darrowby’ who is portrayed by Herriot as a bombastic yet good-hearted character.
Having only been qualified for the last seven months, James knew it wouldn't be easy, but he was up to the challenge or so he believed.
James quickly learnt that dealing with animals was sometimes easier than dealing with people, especially farming people who were used to doing things their own way.
James went about his work each day doing what he loved and hoped in time that those who weren't too sure about him would come around and see what a great job he was performing.
If like me you love animals then I suggest you grab a copy of this book.
This book made me cry.
I had a hard time catching my breath.
It was so damn funny.
It was also poignant.
I love the time period - 1930s - and the locale - York.
This took me forever to read.
It's basically vignettes so I'd read one story and set the book down for a week.
But I prefer to think of it as savoring.
I know, I know, I'm late to this party - this book has been out for 40 years and I'm just now discovering it - but that doesn't make it any less impressive.
Ένα από τα λίγα χιουμοριστικά best sellers των εκδόσεων 'Bell' που, κυριολεκτικά, 'τα σπάει'.
Ο Herriot εμπνέεται από την ζωή του και την εργασιακή του εμπειρία ως κτηνίατρος και μάς μεταφέρει στην επαρχιακή Αγγλία της δεκαετίας του '30 'χτίζοντας' σταδιακά μια ξεκαρδιστική ιστορία γεμάτη ηθογραφικά στοιχεία και αστεία περιστατικά με κατοικίδια ζώα.
Το βιβλίο έχει ζωντάνια, πρωτοτυπία, πολλές 'εικόνες' από τη φύση της αγγλικής υπαίθρου σε σημείο που ο αναγνώστης να εύχεται αυτά τα ζώα να μπορούσαν....
από τη Μεγάλη Βρετανία, ενώ βασίστηκε στο βιβλίο καί η αντίστοιχη αγγλική τηλεοπτική σειρά στα τέλη της δεκαετίας του '70.
Βαθμολογία: 4,5/5 ή 9/10.Υ.Γ.: Ένα βιβλίο που αξίζει να επανεκδοθεί!
Alf Wight, seorang dokter hewan dari Yorkshire, menovelisasi hidupnya dan menggunakan nama samaran James Herriot.James Herriot adalah anak muda yang pemalu tapi kreatif dan bersemangat tinggi.
Atasannya seorang dokter hewan Siegfried Farnon, yang cerdas namun eksentrik dan pelupa, dan hidupnya sering diwarnai dengan paradoks.
Tapi yang tak pernah membosankan adalah komitmen Herriot untuk setiap saat membantu makhluk hidup yang menderita, biarpun kadang ia harus melampiaskan kekesalan dan kemarahan; dan selalu diakhiri oleh kembalinya kesadaran bahwa hidup itu ajaib, lucu, agung, dan tak pernah membosankan.Darrowby adalah nama samaran dari kota Thirsk di Yorkshire, tak jauh dari York.
What many may not know is how author James Herriot's books inspired me to be a veterinarian.
So, when this book turned up on our office swap shelf, I nabbed it."If Only They Could Talk" is a UK-issued book consisting of selected stories from All Creatures Great And Small.
I was glad to see some of my long-time favorites from Herriot's little Darrowby community, like Mrs. Pumphrey and her precious Tricki Woo, the selection of laconic farmers with their cows, and (of course) the irrepressible Farnon brothers with whom Herriot practices.As I read this book, it felt like I was spending time with a dear old friend.
Ineffable joy! Beautifully-written, lots of laugh out loud moments, stories of the author's first year of practice as a newly-qualified vet in the Yorkshire Dales. Set in the late 1930s, dark times in many ways with the Second World War brewing, but greatly comforting in the humour and shared humanity shown. I was talking to someone yesterday and she told me she often went back to Herriot's books in difficult times. I see from my name and date bought on the flyleaf that I first read these 40 years ago. Wow! Times flies, indeed!
Suka banget dengan cerita-ceritanya si James di buku ini...Suka dengan penggambaran alam pedesaan dan orang-orangnya serta uniknya duo Farnon yang kadang bikin terpingkal-pingkal sendiri.Dalam bayangan saya, si James ini menceritakan kejadian lucu yang dialaminya dengan muka lempeng, soalnya bahasanya juga lempeng aja sih...cuma pembaca yang membayangkan situasinya yang ga bisa menahan tawa. Contohnya pas Sigfried menekankan pentingnya kebersihan dalam penanganan kasus hewan, malah jadi konyol karena ternyata kondisi di lapangan tidak berjalan sesuai harapan.Buku ini benar-benar menghibur, sampai saya langsung ingin mengulang membacanya lagi setelah halaman terakhir ditutup.
This had me guffawing with laughter in places. Such a warm and cosy read too - in spite of the often harsh life being described (it was freezing up on the Yorkshire moors in winter). What an endearing bunch of characters. It was a bedtime read, and I realised that every night I was looking forward to going to bed, just so I could read some more....Excellent.
As charming as I remembered it, and very interesting. Warm and perfect for out-loud reading with family. Took us a good while to get to the end, but the time was well-spent.
His memoirs should truly be cherished, this first book setting an excellent scene for many humorous and poignant works.However, when asked what i was reading by the many people who always strive for conversation when you are quite content in silence reading your novel, all convinced you surely could not be doing so by sheer delight you have actually found time in an increasingly busy day, but rather through your lack of social skills, and therefor, friends, i was astounded of how unknown these amazing works are.
A pretty funny account of the life of a young vet in Yorkshire, with interesting characters, both animal and human.It was a really hard world, before antibiotics and modern medicines, out in the freezing countryside at all hours, but he was content with that life, and that comes through his writing.
If Only They Could Talk is a memoir of sorts chronicling James Herriot's first year in a veterinarian practice in the small English town of Darrowby. Composed of short accounts of day-to-day life in the practice, each story draws you further into the lives of James Herriot, his employer Siegfried Farnon, and Siegfried's brother Tristan.I still remember watching All Creatures Great and Small on VHS with my parents, and this book gives off the same sense of nostalgia. If Only They Could Talk is lighthearted, hilarious, and meaningful, and I can't wait to continue reading this series.
I loved James Herriott's books when I was a kid... he was one of the reasons I always wanted to be a vet...
4.5 stars I originally picked this up because of the interesting blurb and the compact size of my edition.I have never heard of this book or the author not have seen the inspired TV series by it.Each chapter has the story of one of his Many adventures.No matter how sad or heartbreaking the tale is , his tone is hilariously funny.His depiction of the times at Yorkshire will leave the reader with warm feelings of nostalgia.It was a book to read at hard times for pick me ups.I will read his other books !Bottom line is it's highly recommend !
What it is:A blue-collar charm autobiography by a guy who 'lucked out' by landing a veterinarian job straight out of school during the Great Depression.Who should read it:Lovers of Bill Bryson, for one. Really, if you love animals, or love the folksy narrator thing, this book is for you.Strengths: Pacing, Variety of Tales, Humour/Gravity Balance, CharacterizationRating: 4 out of 5. This is a nice, quick, enjoyable read, though it will also have you looking to the dictionary often.
This book was delightful! I had heard of this book series and its television counterpart "All Creatures Great and Small," but knew little of the content. It ended up being a collection of fascinating anecdotes told with warmth and humor. I highly recommend this book, and I look forward to reading the other seven in the series.
Lovely, funny and touching. And the sheep. Oh the sheep.
ketipu judul ini mah namanya, he he he. ada beberapa chapter yang ngebosenin, mungkin karena yang diceritain ga melulu soal hewanhewan, dan ini masih awalawal Mr. Herriot mulai bekerja. selebihnya seperti halnya bukubuku beliau yang lain, menyenangkan.
Such a nice read. Good for reading aloud, though some of the different accents can be challenging!
Ngomong2 ini reviewnya:Ini mainstream banget, tapi saya gak punya pilihan lain selain ngomong "Jadi buku ini bercerita tentang James Herriot, dokter hewan yang lagi praktek di desa kecil di Inggris.
Tentang pengalamannya." Tapi saya mencoba bikin review yang semoga bisa deskripsiin sisi lain dari buku ini.
Let's try.Seperti yang saya udah bilang tadi, emang sebenernya buku ini tuh main plotnya si Herriot dan praktek saat menjadi dokter hewan di sebuah desa, tapi entah kenapa pas saya baca buku ini, saya melihat lebih, dan bahkan bukan itu secara utama.
Saya kasih jempol deh ke Herriot dan Om/Tante translator buat kata-kata indah yang dipilih untuk ada dibuku ini.
I remember watching the TV series back in the 70's and 80's and picking this book up for the first time was like settling down by the fire with old friends.
Set in the Yorkshire Dales, this is the first book in a series by rookie vet James Herriot and his new life in the countryside and among the animals and his struggle to win over the old Yorkshire farmers and eccentric characters he meets there.
In the words of James Herriot while describing his beloved countryside - I felt like I could breathe.
Deskripsinya mengenai desa Darrowby membuat saya ingin mengulang waktu dan tinggal disana, merasakan betapa indah alam dan pemandangannya, hal yang hampir tidak pernah didapat di kota besar.Terlebih lagi, karena ini kisah nyata pengalaman hidup si penulis-lah yang membuatnya berbeda dan jauh lebih menarik dibandingkan dengan buku-buku fiksi.Terjemahannya juga saya acungkan jempol karena sangat enak dibaca seperti bukan terjemahan.
Nama sang penerjemah juga sangat familier bagi saya karena cerpen-cerpennya banyak dimuat di majalah Bobo, sumber ilmu dan bacaan bagi saya di masa kecil.
Rasanya sangat ingin berguru kepada Ny. Suwarni AS dalam hal penerjemahan :)
Menurut saya, buku yang dibuat dengan sepenuh hati ini, sampai ke hati pula.
Semua aspek dari ceritanya keren, mulai dari settingnya, karakter tokoh tokohnya( entah yang mana yang benar benar ada maupun hanya rekaan), sampai ke konflik di setiap episodenya.
Menariknya lagi, cerita cerita yang bisa dibaca secara bab demi bab atau pun dengan memilih acak bab yang diingini, berbalut selera humor yang apik.
Pada saat yang bersamaan, pembaca bisa tersentuh sekaligus tertawa getir.Empat setengah bintang buat buku ini dan tak sabar untuk mencari buku bukunya yang lain.
Loved all the James Herriot books.
My parents began to read them when I was maybe 10 or so and they would laugh out loud but I was far too cool to read what my parents did until one day I had a miserable toothache/earache and to take my mind off it I began to read one of this series of books.
I too ended up laughing and simply being transported away to a different time, yet with places that seemed comfortingly familiar.
(I'm from Yorkshire originally and was living there at this time.) I wrote my first ever fan letter to anyone, to James Herriot, and he replied!
I also loved how he began to write the books kind of from a dare from his wife!
I first read this book in my early teens around the time of the great Herriot boom; a very popular TV series, 3 feature films and parts of North Yorkshire branding themselves as 'Herriot Country'.
I had fond memories of the books and the TV series and, in rereading one of the books, was worried that I would view it as sentimental and facile.
However, the Herriot industry was started because the books are well written and not overly sentimental.
Herriot is a clever writer, clear and direct and capable of generating a real sense of time and place.
Setelah Dog's Stories dan Cat's Stories, ini kumpulan kisah "petualangan" si dokter hewan Skotlandia
Now this was a thoroughly enjoyable little book.
It was quickly read - in less than a day - but every vanilla-scented, yellowed paperback page was a sheer delight to turn.
Having driven up and down the same precarious roads that he lurches along, looked up at the same balding fells and travelled parallel to identical drystone walls and through the little timeless grey-stoned villages, it now lends the scene a special feel of homeliness to me.
Alright, Chris, bring on the other volumes in the series - filled with pages just as comfortingly yellowed.
Brilliant, read this as a teenager years ago. Just as good second time round.
Loved animals all my life. Read it as a child. Got it from my mom. For every generation...
