https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10557075-the-adulterous-woman
بیست و پنج سال سال چیزی نبود.
عاقبت او را پذیرفته بودژانی احساس می کرد عشق واقعی همسرش فقط پول است و بدون اینکه دلیلش را بداند از این کشف خود چندان خوشنود نبودآن ها در تاریکی عشق می ورزیدند، بدون اینکه یکدیگر را ببینند.
آیا در تاریکی عشق دیگری وجود دارد که در روشنایی ناپدید می شود؟ نمی دانستمنتظر بود، اما نمی دانست برای چه.
می دانست که این قلمرو روزی به او تعلق داشته و دیگر هرگز به او باز نمی گردد.
I had expected that the story would center around the scenes that a woman would commit a “crime”, getting into an amorous affair, that she would rat out on her faithful husband in an abject misery, that there would be a passion-of-crime scene.
And there was an instance that she was even engulfed by a group of men when she decided to air out in the middle of the night, leaving her husband asleep.Therefore, Janine did not have sex with any men, but she had the idea of doing so.
The definition of adultery is too broad to conclude that someone like Janine is said to be so unless you define sex as an ACT, which is different from the IDEA.
I appreciate the stories leaving readers in a resonant state, and thinking, "what did I just read?" Camus did that for me with this story, my first read for this author.A woman follows her husband into Arabian country and sleeps next to him, gets up in the night while he's sleeping for a poetic encounter in her perspective, feelings, and thoughts.
The entire story has a philosophical feel, which attracts me with an irresistable pull.
This kind of writing, like Kafka's, has layers of words beneath the words, and they can only be understood with the instinct, the feelings, and you find a pool of meaning in front of you at the last word, and you want to dive in to a story for which you see no bottom.
We all know Albert Camus's stories are full of somber and unhappy words like death, dying, silence, cold, solitude, emptiness, meaninglessness, bare (walls), meager (light), void, boredom, (vast) melancholy and so on.
She went out into the darkness, into the black sky, its millions of stars with the night's silence broken only by the muffled crackling of stones that the cold was reducing to sand.
Before her the stars were falling one by one and being snuffed out among the stones of the desert, and each time Janine opened a little more to the night.
the adulterous woman, because she chose the need of being needed over her liberation from such a need?? this story is one of the first from the book, Exile and kingdom by Camus, which I read last year and this story has remained with me since then. Will read again sometime.
Absurdul romanţat...
اعتقد اني اعطيت هذه الرواية قيمه عندما اعطيتها نجمه سيئه وقصيره ولا يوجد بها حبكه ولا شي ء مفيد
I truely love Albert Camus style of writing and his stories
A profound collection that I probably need to read a few more times to fully absorb and digest... I shall return to you, Monsieur Camus.

The Adulterous Woman is a story about a woman whose life is empty, bore and without purpose.
She is confused.
She wants to ran away from her husband to sleep with other attractive men.
But in her thoughts she does that whenever she gets attention from attractive men.
Troubled by all this confusion, boredom and emptiness she is shown crying in the story.
I think that in her extreme loneliness at that fort she realizes this agony, the very first time in life, at that much of conscious level that it led her to weep.
It may be the story of every man and woman on this earth.
The Adulterous Woman, Albert Camusعنوان: مرد خاموش ؛ نویسنده: آلبر کامو؛ مترجم: نسرین مجیدی؛ تهران، روزگارنو، 1392؛ در 70 ص؛ شابک: 9786006867243؛ چاپ دوم 1393 در 128 ص؛ شابک: 9786007339169؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسوی قرن 20 م
“Au milieu de l'hiver, j'ai découvert en moi un invincible été.” (Albert Camus)
Loved it. Anyone who understands camus will love it.

Beautiful prose but contaminated by politics. The more I read about Camus, the less his stories convincing. I find the characters and the perception (especially, the colonial's mindset) naive, ambitious and wrong. In every character shares the same traits: suffering in agony, displeased, angst and super emo. I get it. Now, can we move on?
The Silent Man would probably be a better title and I much prefer this story then The Adulterous Woman.
Lots of cliffhangers in the short stories available in this compilation. Quite uninteresting except for the title story which portrays the modern struggle of a certain type of women in marriages, but nonetheless was boring to the core and obviously anti-Arab. The second story "The Silent Men" had some potential which was wasted on a painful cliffhanger which only made me think of how uninterested he was in composing a proper ending.I'm still to read The Stranger and I'm hoping it will yield at least 2 stars.
Great read! Core message: people are never satisfied with what they have.
الصراع مع الفراغ.. الليالي الباردة الساكنة و العزلة مع الذات.
Some ideas which sprang up in the course of reading this compilation:- Loneliness is only beautiful when self-imposed.
Irrational things can be denigrated by virtue of their contrariness to rationality, yet ambiguity cannot be written off as simply ambiguity as readily.- Sometimes we don't act because we know that there will be a situation later on wherein the qualm brought about by the inertia is inconsequential.
A sort of oasis in the midst of the desert of duty and co-existence...- The acts of others can be viewed from the causal point of view rather effortlessly.
A short story by Albert Camus to start a long trail of thoughts on freedom, adultery, faithfulness and boredom.
It's a series of acts by Janine, a married woman for twenty-five years, which can be percieved as being analogous to comminting adultery.
2. Later she looks at a group of men who look as small as scattered figures in a vast distant land and then cries at her misfortune for being trapped.
She thinks of those poverty-stricken men as lords of free land who have been roaming around freely without worries.
She longs for that freedom too.
The book consist of three short stories from Albert Camus - The Adulterous Woman, The Silent Man, and The Guest.Well, first thing first, it’s Camus.
And he is well known for being an existentialist writer and I am too simple to actually understand existentialism BUT for this book I manage to grasp what Camus tries to convey (for the first two only, I don’t understand the third story).So, I wanna give myself a pat on my back sebab boleh faham those two stories.
Btw, this is the second book from Camus that I’ve read.
The first one was The Stranger.
A nice collection of three short stories filled with much atmosphere what it lacks in plot. Okay, maybe that was the whole point. In each story the reader is placed as an intimate observer as the characters each face their own moral dilemmas. The moments build up, and a decision is made, but the consequences are left to the imagination. Much like life, we live in our daily moments, most of them nondescript, sometimes coloured into what we want it to be. Perhaps it'll be in hindsight when we realize the importance of these moments, if it ever was.
In these three short stories, The Adulterous Woman, The silent men and The guest, Camus’ deep insight into human psychology shines through the distinctly poetic way of writing. Everything Camus for me is thought provoking and gripping and it resonates in my mind long after I’ve finished reading it. Goes to show strong essences are held in small bottles.Strongly recommend!
"By so often making her aware that she existed for him he made her exist in reality."
These short stories emphasise what a great story teller Camus was. A perfect book for a (short) train journey.
In my opinion, "The guest" was the best story out of the three.
I’m trying so hard to like Camus this year and really failing.
مملة وترجمتها الغبية زادتها سوء
