https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81026.The_Magic_Toyshop
It was their titles that entranced: Nights at the Circus, The Magic Toyshop, The Bloody Chamber, The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman.
And I sat there for a very long time, not reading, simply admiring those books.
The shop was about to close; I drifted to the counter in a kind of daze, with the book open in front of me, still reading it on my way there.
In The Magic Toyshop (the first I read, and always my favourite), I found in the character of Melanie, our heroine, someone who echoed the pains of my youth.
'The Magic Toyshop' has so many exquisitely written layers, even though I only just closed its final page, I could easily pick it up and read it from beginning to end all over again and glean something new from its darkly spiralling plot.This tale is wonderfully typical of Angela Carter and her taboo-breaking narratives.
Fantastic imagery and symbolism are constant, transforming the story of the orphaned Melanie into a brooding, twisted Bildungsroman-come-gothic fairytale.As always with Carter, her characters are inspiring and individual to the point of appearing to crawl off the page in enchanting, vibrant colours and shapes.
This possibility seemed real and awful.
The swan towered over the black-haired girl who was Melanie and who was not."“.....‘You overacted,’ he said to Melanie and cuffed her with the back of his hand.
Puppets don’t overact.
You	spoiled the poetry’”	This is relatively early Carter, and she is just beginning to spread her wings...but what gorgeous wings they are!
Second time reading this one, and even more impressed this time round.
Lovely inversion/subversion of 19thc romance novels, full of fairy tale tropes but with that sexy Carter-twist.
Pure pleasure to read.
It's now that the children move to London to live with their Aunt Margaret and Uncle Philip (Flower), who live in a house above his toyshop.
"It was a grotesque parody of a swan...Its wings waved because Uncle Philip was pulling the strings...Almighty Jove in the form of a swan wreaks his will."A Challenge to Authority in a Wild SurmiseInevitably, Melanie and Finn challenge Uncle Philip's authority: "we shall all walk out on him together, while he grovels on the floor...Time to be gone."Ultimately, "everything is gone...Nothing is left but us."There is a new start in a new world: 
I was lucky to discover Angela Carter’s writing at a very young age, not long after I had started to read grown-up books.I spotted a book named ‘The Magic Toyshop’ on a paperback carousel in the library.
The cat put its head on one side and turned it sequin regard on the parcel; it stretched out its paddy paw and stroked the dress.
The whole story was like that; a coming of age story twisted into the most profound, dark, gothic drama.Melanie found herself in a dilapidated house where her tyrannical uncle ruled over his mute, cowed wife, and her two young brothers.
Strange though it sounds this book published in 1967 handled it all in a sensitive way.The story begins with Melanie a 15year old girl exploring her body and her sexuality, then after the door closes fast behind her, when she goes for a midnight walk in her mother's wedding dress, ends up climbing naked up the apple tree to get back into her room.
I do have another of hers on my book case and will definitely be reading it later this year.
“In this staged fantasy, anything was possible.”  The Magic Toyshop was not what I expected. Where at the start there is a promise of a gothic horror story of poor orphans falling pray to their cruel uncle, the tale actually is more a coming-of-age story sprinkled with horror.  Not bad either, because the author kept me on edge the whole time. Angela Carter is known for writing eerie fairy tales with feminist characters and magical elements, and “The Toyshop” being one of her first works it fi
Angela Carter is known for writing eerie fairy tales with feminist characters and magical elements, and “The Toyshop” being one of her first works it fits right in.
The first thing we namely learn about our main character Melanie, a teenage girl of 15, is how she’s studying her changing body and discovering her own sexual desires.
I liked this ‘flesh’ aspect because it grounded Melanie (who’s imaginative mind often ran far) and it kept the story in the real world.
But although I liked Melanie and I loved the descriptive writing style, the plot itself wasn’t so strong.
The Magic Toyshop
Melanie, 15, is orphaned (along with her two younger siblings), and they are all sent to live with her uncle, his wife, and the wife's two brothers.
Melanie, meanwhile, explores a relationship with the other brother as the book unfolds.
Carter tries a whole lot of things at once--flights of gothic fancy (a random dismembered hand, an accidental destruction of a wedding dress) coupled with a burgeoning love story, all set against the backdrop of a grief that seems very quickly forgotten.
I read about half of "The Bloody Chamber" (1979) recently, too, perhaps Carter's most famous colelction of stories.
The oddest, the most bat-shit -crazy book I've ever read but I can't tell how much I enjoyed it. I'm sure there are parts I failed to understand in means of symbolism but I kind of got what you mean Angela.
I know what will make this Even Worse!!!" - but it's very well written, and therefore emotionally very effective, even while one is saying, "well, that's a Bit Much!" Upon finishing it, I was left with a creeping, disturbed feeling - which is the sign of a good horror novel.However, I did have the same issue with it as I did with the stories in 'The Bloody Chamber,' which is that the characters are both emotionally opaque and oddly passive.
Before I'd read the book, I saw the David Wheatley film.
I read the novel shortly afterwards and imagined everything in it (characters and setting) as they were in the film.
Even now, re-reading the book, so many years later, the imagery of the film (the colours, the lighting, the tone) comes back to me.
Part of the reason the story had such an impact on me is because of Jonathon, a myopic, school-boy character in the novel who is obsessed with ships.
As I was reading I wondered how Carter would feel about the the London of today.Anyway, I completely love this book.
“She was too young, too soft and new, to come to terms with these wild beings whose minds veered at crazy angles from the short, straight, smooth lines of her own experience.”  The Magic Toyshop by Angela Carter is a poignant, enthrallingly dark piece consisting of adjective and metaphorical heaven. The narrative is beautiful. Which makes the story all the more shocking. The storyline follows a curiously gross structure where three young children suddenly become orphaned and have to go and live
The toys are given a creepy life force of their own and flung themselves sporadically throughout the narrative.
The temperature of the fable plummeted around the half way mark, ironically at the point when Melanie falls in love with her adoptive family.
What was a warm, tepid, languidly written account of her unfamiliar new life, became a fiery, freezing force full of spitting anger and misplaced love.
The title 'The Magic Toyshop' is nostalgically endearing, the newly instated guardian being a 'toy maker' signifies sentiment and twinkle-in-the-eye jolliness, even the name of the toymaker; Philip Flower, contains a harmless charm.
Before that ending, I was treated to a panoply of literary antecedents that already live inside my head: Frances Hodgson Burnett’s Sara Crewe; Lewis Carroll's Alice and the chess Queen; Dickensian anthropomorphic rooms and household items; Bluebeard; Beauty and the Beast; Roman mythology and more.
Perhaps I loved most of this because my brain works the same way as Carter’s, which might be a scary thing to contemplate though I find it exciting as this is the first book of hers I’ve read (only her second novel) and it won’t be my last.*I know I write “perhaps” too much (see the above paragraph and probably all my other reviews) so I felt particularly drawn to this passage: 
This story is just filled with so much poetic beauty- Melanie wearing white before the death of her parents, Melanie returning to a white outfit before the climax of the book, Uncle Phillip's obsession with puppets while simultaneously acting as a puppet master for everyone under his roof, Jonathan's sense of never quite feeling solid reflected in his sparse appearances and hasty exit from the story, Aunt Maggie losing her speech right after marrying uncle Phillip, only to regain it when her marriage quite literally goes up in flames.
I loved this story.
The simple fairy-tale / literature-of-orphans-and-misfortune (and lots of overlap there) surface of this story seems to conceal a high level of thematic deftness and intricacy, seemingly built around a series of simulacra. And where will it all go?...Later: somewhere slightly else, maybe, but the complex underlyings are pretty fascinating. Identity and self, as external from the self, in objects and more importantly, in others. But constructed with a deftness and overriding narative coherency that these matters are ghosts, present and absent, and I will likely think inconclusively on them without arriving at any exact conclusions (or thematic oversimplifications).
are you tired of ordinary people? are you tired of ambiguity in characters? are you tired of sensible plots? do you yearn for exaggerated morality of adult fairy tales? well this is the book for you. i do not mean this in a bad way, as i did enjoy this but, truly, more for invention of modernish magical realist parallels for gothic stories than for great art. that is, for the artist in one rather than the philosopher... the cover image of my copy- puppet/characters manipulated by evil master- basically tells you what the story will be...
Κυκλοφόρησε στα Ελληνικά, ως "Το μαγαζάκι με τα μαγικά παιχνίδια", εκδόσεις Γράμματα.
Melanie's exploration of her own sexuality especially is starkly and wonderfully expressed in this way.A very interesting open ending is provided - I would have preferred a little more closure, but on the whole the novel is satisfying.
Ultimately, I didn’t feel that the story was… special.
I was constantly waiting for a climax that didn’t make an appearance until the very, very end of the novel and I was more perturbed by the writing than any other facet.
But I really appreciate Carter’s ability to make me feel such strong emotions, especially in time with Melanie’s changing attitudes.
The fantastical nature of the story begins to slowly fade as the story goes on and this weakens it’s power somewhat; Carter’s strength is her ability to create a macabre and outlandish atmosphere, her ability to evoke, parody and transmogrify the tropes and themes of gothic and fairy tale literature; the descent into normality can be jarring, as the reader is left to contemplate the fundamental unreality of Carter’s stories-they are not meant be realistic or life-like, that is not Carter’s strength or style and her attempts to fit in the caricatures into something conventional us unconvincing.Nevertheless Carter’s descriptive prose, such as:“Such a round moon.
It's one of those strange books where nothing 'much' happens.
We follow Melanie, a 15 year old who is set upon discovering her sexuality.
After her parents die, she moves to her Uncle Phillip's house, a poverty-stricken topshop.
Here, she meets her Uncle's kindly wife, Aunt Margaret, plus her two brothers, Francie and Finn.Finn serves as Melanie's unlikely aide for awakening her sexuality, and I just love how the author describes him; he's certainly no stud and frequently behaves in a strange, surreal manner.
His cooler, calmer brother has a rather dramatic secret of his own, which is revealed at the end.
For some reason this book couldn't keep my attention very well and actually made me groggy.
Apart from that this is foremost a story about a trio of siblings whose parents die and have to move in with an estranged uncle and his strange family.
Nothing in this book is beautiful or happy.
Not sure why this is titled The Magic Toyshop as nothing is magical and the toy shop is where much of the trouble happens.
It had a weird abrupt ending that left me asking what the point of this novel was.
Not sure if I'll be trying another of Carter's novels.
I thought this was an enjoyable read and that the writing was quite good! I found certain plot points could have been expanded on though, and that maybe the novel was a bit too short and that the story ended without tying any of the loose ends. Overall it was a fun read, but an imperfect novel in my opinion. I look forward to reading more of Angela Carter's work in the future, however!
I've been uncomfortably prone (isn't that the name of a Pink Floyd classic?) to literature-related dreaming of late (no joke: I even had a David Foster Wallace-related dream the other night, which was simply too good to be true, and another one related to Amis' "Time's Arrow" which I remembered when subsequently catching a glimpse of an old Coldplay video...
by the way...
but then things do change for the better within the bruised dream logic of a setting that is "The Magic Toyshop."
i think the first time i read the magic toyshop, i was too young, younger than melanie and easily overwhelmed by the cloying, claustrophobic fear of a too-small world governed by a vast, fleshy puppet-master.
i can't help but think, maybe with more biographical inclination than is healthy, about its tortured relationship to motherhood; the true mother, the mother melanie imagines herself to have symbolically killed and who is more than anything else an absence, aunt margaret, the mother-substitute who feeds and loves with an aggressive hunger that is literally unspeakable, and melanie herself, who imagines her future as a string of children demanding access to her womb.
I get excited when a writer merges genre seamlessly with literature, because I don't think it happens very often.Angela Carter's dark fantasy achieves this feat with the coming of age of the rich, spoiled twelve-year-old Melanie, who is orphaned early in the novel and sent to live with her cruel, working-class uncle.
What more than kept me reading was Carter's nuanced characterizations of Melanie, Finn (the love interest), and her miserable Aunt Margaret.
It's also nice that the prose is so lyrical you forget you're reading.I think Lethem and Chabon's works a less seamless genre/lit blend than The Magic Toyshop.
Anyway, I re-read The Magic Toyshop, and I no longer have this fallacy – now I love Angela Carter with all my being.I guess I mentioned a couple of times already that I absolutely love coming-of-age novels, and without the least bit of planning, I always happen to read a coming-of-age novel every two or three months, because I like (and need) to re-learn (or re-experience) what it’s like to grow up.
[semi-spoilerish as to meaning, without revealing any plot points:]A very strange, powerful book which left me somewhat off-balance but increasingly impressed.
I must admit, I wasn't expecting this to be literature.__________________________________________________Addition: I just realized that this book struck me the same way that Michael Haneke's 2005 film Caché did, which just doubled my appreciation for it.
then you realized (with dawning startled admiration) that it was most likely about something else altogether, something far more relevant and meaningful than its initially-apparent genre led you to expect.
(Though as with Caché, I doubt that everyone who encountered it emerged from it with that realization.)
Părinţii lor muncesc în străinătate pentru ca aceştia să se bucure de toate luxurile vremii respective (nu e specificat în carte, însă bănuiesc că e vorba de anii ’60) de la săpunuri parfumate şi şampon până la simpla hârtie igienică.
Deoarece părinţii lor nu au pus niciun ban deoparte, Melanie şi fraţii ei sunt nevoiţi să locuiască cu unchiul Philip, un păpuşar tiranic, în Londra.
Pentru mine a fost totodată şi o lecţie de viaţă, şi încă o dovadă că o carte nu trebuie judecată după copertă.La toate acestea, adaug faptul că mi-a fost dăruită de ziua mea de o persoană deosebită, iubitul meu, acest lucru contribuind şi el la entuziasmul pe care îl am acum scriind despre această carte.
This started slow for me but by the end I really liked it! It follows a fourteen year old girl called Melanie who has to live with her Uncle in London where he runs a toy shop. Here her life is changed by the people she encounters and her new lifestyle. It's very connected to ancient myths and reads like a fairytale. Anyone a fan of her other stories would enjoy this.
This book was very dark and sad! It was a little wordy at first and I thought about abandoning it a few times. I'm glad I stuck with it. But, it was not a feel good, happily ever after tale. Did I miss the "magic"? What in the hell was magic about an abusive, sick fuck who made demented puppets?
