https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5413._Salem_s_Lot
Como resultado tenemos una historia que tiene muchos de los rasgos mas evidentes del estilo de Stephen King con ingredientes para seguir la linea de la tan famosa novela de Stoker.El intento fue hacer los vampiros seres menos elegantes y hacerlos mas grotescos e inhumanos, en mi opinión lo logra pero no dejando muy buenas sensaciones desde mi punto de vista.
Como resultado tenemos una buena historia, bastante entretenida, no la mejor del autor pero si una de las mas importantes.Se nota mucho que es una historia previa a la época de oro del autor.Cabe destacar que aunque es su segundo libro publicado es uno de los primeros que escribió.
Es de los libros en que Stephen King demuestra ser un narrador extraordinario, ya que de una forma pausada e hipnotizante nos va adentrando en la vida de Salem's Lot. Lo anterior es importante ya que no sólo es una historia de vampiros, sino que también aprovecha a sumergir al lector en la marchita comunidad en la que se van desarrollando los acontecimientos y que, en cierta medida, es la que permite que éstos sucedan.
Por supuesto, la calidad de la narración también se pone de manifiesto en la sugerente historia sobrenatural que desciende sobre este pueblo.
It is one of the greatest vampire tales ever written since  Dracula first came into publication in 1897. It is Stephen King’s second novel, and is the book that he says, “…typed [him] as a horror writer.”. So far, two movies have been based on 'Salem’s Lot…  Many people dislike the 2004 version, but I enjoyed both adaptations equally. Most of you die-hard King and hardcore vampire fans know the story: Ben Mears (view spoiler)[moves back to the town of Jerusalem’s Lot ('Salem's Lot as it is refer
Most of you die-hard King and hardcore vampire fans know the story: Ben Mears (view spoiler)[moves back to the town of Jerusalem’s Lot ('Salem's Lot as it is referred to by the natives) to exorcise his own personal demons surrounding The Marsten House.
(hide spoiler)]Barlow (…Dracula??), (view spoiler)[turns out to be a very old and very powerful vampire who spreads vampirism over "the Lot" like an epidemic.
(hide spoiler)]This, however, is a special edition of Stephen King’s vampire novel.
This is my third time reading 'Salem’s Lot, however, reading this edition is like discovering the book all over again!
And we need more vampires like Barlow in print….scary, evil bloodsucking monsters!
become one of  THEM  But you know, I've read to much horror to not be able to guess at least one part of a horror genre book...Very much so the modernized DRACULA  (Say with old timey accent) The story takes place in Jerusalem's Lot. A quiet small town where people begin disappearing and getting very sick after a young boy disappers.
(saves Mark's life by the way)  (hide spoiler)]CHARACTER BREAKDOWN:BEN: Comes back to 'Salem's Lot after the death of his wife Miranda, (his fault?
I think the biggest thing is that that book doesn't give you a chance to rest between scenes.
I also think that the book at times was scary, but not as scary as King could have made it.
We are left with the survivors back ready to take on the Lot. King includes two short stories about the beginning of Salem's Lot and another that talks about what happened to the town two years after the events of that book.
Well, when reading Salem's Lot, let's just say I didn't want to go outside at night.As far as this volume, it was a nice treat.
I like how it was told through letters and diary entries, reminding me of Stoker's Dracula, which the Salem's Lot novel was inspired by.
I beleive that the original Salem's Lot editors did a good job by filtering this out or making the changes to the eventual published novel.
But I think it was a good idea to filter them out of the story because as nasty gory as they were, the original tension in the novel served its purpose very well without rats.
One of the best vampire books ever written. Bar none. End of story. Thank you very much. Seeing an author's take on the 'vampire' genre is always great, seeing King's take on it, brilliant. Since he's written a sequel to The Shining, maybe it's time for a sequel to Salem's Lot?
I’ve said this in numerous places, but “Salem’s Lot is my favorite book by Stephen King.
So I finally tracked down a first edition (used, but almost perfect) to add to my collection and decided I would NOT allow myself to read the “deleted scenes” until I had finished the original.Let me say that I never feel that there are enough words in a Stephen King book.
Su propósito es escribir una nueva novela que le ayude a exorcizar los miedos infantiles, pero alguien más ha llegado al mismo tiempo a Salem’s Lot, un ser perverso y siniestro.‘Salem’s Lot (Edición ilustrada)’ (Salem’s Lot, Ilustrated Edition, 2005), del maestro Stephen King, recoge el original de 1975, ‘El misterio de Salem’s Lot’, con algunos grabados en blanco y negro (la verdad es que me esperaba más y mejores ilustraciones), así como las páginas que fueron eliminadas en su día por la editorial.
A esto hay que sumar los dos relatos relacionados con Salem’s Lot, ‘Una para el camino’ y ‘Los misterios del gusano’(con tintes lovecraftianos), ambos incluidos en ‘El umbral de la noche’.Qué decir de esta gran novela de King.
Meni jedna od najboljih knjiga o vampirima.
I liked the plot, the characters, the prose.
I was bored by 'Salem's Lot and almost gave it up several times.
The short stories at the end of this edition were far more interesting.
To paraphrase Emperor Joseph II in Amadeus, "Too many words!" and a lot of them in the wrong place or completely unnecessary.
I did not find the story very interesting.
King writes easy, flowing prose, making for a fast, if long, read.
King can write clever bon mots, but he did nothing to illustrate such, unless he was too subtle for me, which I doubt.
I doubt I will read more King.
Roman sam pročitao prevenstveno radi padre Kalahana , jer sam želio saznati priču o njemu i htio znati kako je došlo do razvoja tog lika kojeg sam ja prvobitno upoznao u Mračnoj kuli.Ali , moram reći da mi se knjiga ipak mnogo dopala.Bod sam oduzeo jer je užasno dugo trebalo da likovi skontaju šta se to događa , i prije nego što trepneš , sve knjiga se završila.Ovdje mi je smetalo jer se King zadržao na opisima kako ko gdje živi.
Tražio sam krvi!!Ima dosta zanimljivih scena , kao odlazak u Marstenovu kuću ili scena između Marka i Kurta.
Sve u svemu je dosta dobar roman o vampirima (PRAVIM!!!) , koji je King odlično odradio , no radi većih razvlačenja , dajem ipak samo 4 zvjezdice.
Incroyable Stephen King : c'était mon tout premier roman de l'auteur et, comme je n'ai pas été déçue !"Salem" est un véritable page-turner qui vous plonge dans l'atmosphère pesante et angoissante de cette petite ville reculée du Maine, où d'étranges événements surviennent alors que trois étrangers s'y installent.On m'a dit que Stephen King n'était pas réputé pour la qualité des fins de ses ouvrages. J'ai trouvé celle-ci parfaite !Vivement mon prochain de l'auteur !Ma chronique : http://unjour-unlivre.fr/2018/10/sale...
Just absolutely brilliant fun!!Must be the greatest vampire story very!Old school proper scary!!!!!Campfire storytelling scary!!!I though at one point I was finished the book.....but oh no....there was more!!!!The epilogue.......eek!This was even scarier!!!Scared out of my wits but enjoyed every minute!
E ovviamente non è durato più di una settimana, stavo sveglia la notte per andare avanti, nonostante facesse abbastanza paura...Originariamente pubblicato nel 1975, l'ho letto in edizione del 2103 Pickwick di Sperling&Kupfer, illustrata, con una prefazione del 2005 in cui King spiega come è nato questo romanzo, e una postfazione del 1999 in cui discute dell'importanza di Dracula e formula una teoria secondo la quale Il Signore degli Anelli sia molto simile al Dracula di Bram Stoker, con Frodo nel ruolo di Jonathan Harker, Gandalf per Abraham Van Helsing e Sauron per il Conte.
Ha soddisfatto appieno le mie aspettative: mi ha ricordato le sensazioni provate leggendo Dracula, IT e Under the dome. Quando King sfodera una "cittadina in preda a qualsiasi catastrofe" non lo ferma nessuno. Approvato. Mi ha fatto anche venire voglia di rileggere il romanzo di Stoker. Uffa.
Привлачна моћ вампира заснована је на злу које рађа пожуду у којој нема ничег лепог, већ је за све извориште мрак.
Карактеристичан је и воњ, задах нераспаднутог, неумрлог који посебно прати Древног.Оно што ме је ван очекивања обрадовало јесте омаж Лафкрафту, како изражен у епилогу књиге који открива право порекло зла у Салемову (веома упечатљиво приповедање које толико личи на стил старијег мајстора хорора), тако већ и на првим странама - Бен Мирс објашњава Сузан своју теорију о опстајању зла у кући и након упокојења оних који су га стварали.

Klasik o vampirima. Prva Kingova knjiga zbog koje je dobio oreol horor pisca, iako se sam pravdao da je samo pokušao da odgovori izazovu da napiše nešto kao omaž Drakuli Brema Stokera. U poplavi današnjih knjiga o vampirima (kojima je uveliko doprinela i holivudizacija Vlada Tepeša), oni koji se vrate da pročitaju ovu pravu vampirsku priču biće samo u dobitku.
Si perchè qui i vampiri sono cattivi, subdoli e fanno davvero paura.Ho adorato tutto di questo romanzo.
Adoro King e il suo descrivere tutto e tutti.
Non c'è una linea che separa il bene e il male, i buoni e i cattivi.
Tutti hanno i loro scheletri nell'armadio.Sono davvero contenta di averlo letto.
E' dai tempi di Dracula che non sprango porte e finestre e salto ad ogni minimo rumore.
Ogni perdita è stata una sofferenza.
Ma più di tutti Susan e Jimmy.
E non mi aspettavo che morisse Jimmy!
mi piace il suo non tralasciare nulla e nessuno.
Un libro che "mi ha fatto veramente paura", non tanto perchè racconta di vampiri che bevono sangue dalle gole di poveri sventurati, ma perchè, nel corso delle pagine, dei capitoli, mi ha trasmesso la paura reale, vera e crudele del "male".
Le pagine scorrevano e l'inquietudine aumentava, aumentava, aumentava a livelli esponenziali, ad un ritmo frenetico, era impossibile frenare il terrore, che questo romanzo, mi ha "inferto", sì inferto, come una ferita, che è andata dritta al cuore, all'animo...Forse uno dei migliori libri, che abbia mai letto sui vampiri, anche il grandissimo "Dracula" di Bram Stoker vacilla di fronte a questo romanzo, per me!!
As is common in King's writing, this is another fine example of great character development and descriptive prose.
The story itself is a fairly simple plot revolving around a small town being over-run by vampires.What brings this out of the doldrums of it's simplistic storyline is King's flair for making even the humdrum interesting.
His discriptions of the scene and his styling of each character's mannerisms draw you into the story.
The suspense is also gradually built up and culminates in a very satisfying finale.Salem's lot is a very enjoyable read and has not aged much over the years since it was written.
Un bel libro sui vampiri.Oltre a Dracula non ho mai letto un libro che tratti dei vampiri in maniera così realistica e inquietante.
Niente vampiri fluorescenti e idiozie del genere, ma ottimi personaggi ben costruiti che rimandano a quelli di Dracula.
Adoro come King inserisca sempre un personaggio scrittore nei suoi libri e stavolta è Ben che alla fine lotta per salvare tutti.
È molto inquietante il fatto che la città man mano deperisca e sparisca diventando una città morta e piena di vampiri.
Casa Marsten è una di quelle dimore che mantengono per sempre quell'atmosfera lugubre e portatrice di guai e delitti.
Il re è sempre il re!! Mi spiace solo averlo letto in un periodo per niente adatto...ho la testa da tutt'altra parte, e decisamente non incline all'horror, altrimenti l'avrei sicuramente gustato di più, ma la sua abilità narrativa è sempre ineguagliabile, non c'è che dire!!
'Salem's Lot is the second novel Stephen King got published, cementing him as a horror writer.
Here, I'll help you get started:1) Small town in Maine.2) Main character is a writer.3) Super-smart kid.4) Bullies who are mean kinda just because.5) Tons of backstory and asides on very minor characters.The book has some really creepy scenes in it, and there's times that I felt genuinely claustrophobic due to some of the places visited.
And the asides on the fates of other minor characters really helps you feel like the horror is happening to the entire town, and not just a select few.I only have two complaints.
It took me months before I could sleep without any lights on.
This one is far more accesable for the modern man and far more recognisable hence its far more effictive scares.
In the early days of King he had already mastered the language of the common man which does tend to pull his readers into the story.This version also contains the other stories about Salem's Lot and looks rather pretty on the bookshelve.An excellent release well worth the buy for those that enjoy visiting the early works of King time after time.
The book wasn't scary at all, but it's still one of the best that I've ever read !
Lo que hace grande -y gordo- a este libro es el desarrollo de sus personajes, la ambientación y sobre todo...
Ahí está el terror.Los libros de King pude que jueguen con el cliché de los monstruos de siempre, pero lo que da miedo de verdad son los pensamientos a nivel psicológico de cada uno de los personajes tanto en el momento de mayor terror, como lo que sucede después.Repito, me costó mucho terminarlo porque se detiene demasiado en aspectos del pueblo que no son interesantes ni relevantes para la trama, pero sí para que te metas en la historia...
(I even had students, ages 12-13 telling me: you gotta read this book!)So I read it and a lot of things changed.
(Anne Rice also disabused me of that belief.) I was enthralled by this story, the atmosphere, the characters, the way things moved - slowly, then fast.
Slowly, then fast.
And just when you felt 'safe,' well for crying out loud, what were you thinking!That's my perception of Salem's Lot. I needn't go into particulars about plot, storyline, characters and all of that because I think that's fairly well-known.
Well, not everyone, but incidents just keep piling up and piling up and you'd think these people, in Salem's Lot, had never read a King book.Unfortunately, they haven't.
Ya son tres los libros que me a atrevo a leer del señor King y como los anteriores, Salem’s Lot me ha dejado muy satisfecha.
Sin divagar demasiado, se nos presenta la historia de un pueblecito a través de la cotidianidad de sus habitantes y como todo se corrompe con la llegada de unos forasteros.
Podría haber finalizando ahí, pero muy inteligentemente, el libro termina con unas cartas sobre la auténtica historia de terror tras Jerusalem’s Lot al más puro estilo Lovecraft, demostrando que no todo el mal procede de fuera y que aún queda mucho por descubrir de este lugar.
