https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161206.Hunger_of_Memory
The process led him toward some sense of shame over their lack of education and associated sophistication.I was fascinated with his emerging concept that Spanish spoken at home was for expression of his private and true self, whereas the English spoken in school was for projecting a public persona.
This was part of the insight that led him to fame in essays against bilingual education and affirmative action.
My “B” grade for this reflects to diminishing relevance of the topics of bilingual education and affirmative action which figure significantly in this volume.
I can't stop thinking about this book, talking about it.
All of them, I think.
Rodriguez is young in this book, but he took a long time writing it (years).
The most intriguing idea in this book, to me, is RR's assertion that a great education can only be obtained with great sacrifice.
By this, he doesn't mean hard work, he means that any time someone from a disadvantaged background obtains a great education, they sacrifice closeness with their family, their community.
For anyone who is trying to write a book for those who don't read books, for those who can't read, this book is your friend.
Ok. So I did not enjoy this book, not because it was a terrible book, but because it angered me.
I am Americanized and I try my very best to learn as much about my culture as possible.
I want to embrace my culture and the fact that there is someone out there who wants to throw theirs away (when they know how to speak their language fluently and know their culture by nature) angers me.
Maybe, then, it is a really good book because it got a response from me, because it impacted me, but I still can't help but get angry when I hear the author's name.
Now he makes a living off his books, articles, and boyfriend.
Well, being an 8-year scholarship girl, I feel I have to say he is a little bit right and a little bit making excuses for his own conservatism and trying to trace it to a larger dynamic.
The best thing I took away from the book was his argument that by design education changes people and we cannot pretend to be the old person we were once we have committed fully to the process of schooling.
This book was pretty infuriating to read. Rodriguez contradicts himself over and over again and many of his statements are very hypocritical. He argues that elementary education needs reform, yet he knows nothing of the public school system in which the majority of minorities go through in this country. In my opinion, he is completely out of touch with the subject matter he discusses and therefore it makes it hard for me to see any merit in his stances.
Please, excuse me for being frank about this, but some of the reviewers missed the main point of the book.Rodriguez is not writing about himself trying to leave his cultural heritage behind.
He is writing about his struggle to keep his heritage, while being assimilated by another culture: The culture of higher (end) education.
This is extremly difficult, for his parents are (in a sense) still working class.To round it up: His main struggle is about keeping his cultural heritage, while loosing the social heritage.
This is a book some will love and others will hate.I first read this book for a college course and found Mr. Rodriguez a bit of a complainer.
I just finished re-reading and discovered I greatly enjoyed his writing style and was better able to understand his experience growing up Mexican-American in California.
about the interaction between language, culture and assimilation.
Mr. Rodriguez poignantly communicates his sadness about his inability speak his native language with his dying grandmother or his parents.
He takes a stand on issues of education that may go against what is expected of a Mexican-American, nor is he apologetic on his stand.
I read this book over Christmas break and it ruined my holiday!
He sees the loss he has experienced as worth the price.
The edition I have is recommended by conservative George Will need I say more to my liberal friends as to why I can not stand this book?I will say more.
Rodriquez makes the childhood mistake of equating educated with being white.
He and his family agree by the urging of the nuns who educated him to lose his Spanish.
The price of his success was too great and utterly unnecessary.
These fools think losing a language makes a person better.
Unlike Richard Rodriguez I'm not a Mexican-American, but I did grow up in a Spanish-speaking household since my mother is Puerto Rican.
This book indeed was assigned reading in a Sociology class, because it does fit into that discipline.
But it's also known for Rodriguez' positions within it on Affirmative Action and Bilingual Education--which I agreed with--particularly after reading this.
He talks about what he lost with the intimacy built by speaking Spanish, yes--but that to function in America what he needed was a public language--which in this country means English first and foremost.
The first chapters I felt I could somehow relate to the struggle in trying to assimilate to the mainstream culture.
I got the feeling that he was ashamed of his roots and felt that he was someone who is phony and he was not able to fit in with his family because of the education he had attain at UCLA.
When I was a student I never felt I had to assimilate to the mainstream culture and forget from where I came from.
I am proud to be bi-cultural and do not have to pretend to be someone I am not.
My family have taught me well.
A really pleasant conversation about major social topics. My review here:  Hunger of Memory
in many ways i felt as if he was ashamed of his mexican heritage. he seems to uphold assimilation and westernization of thought, mind, etc. for that reason, i am not a fan.
Although I did understand where he was going, and in a sense understand the indifference being bilingual does. I feel he couldn't see the broader picture of his life. He actually came from a much better background, attended a private school, went to universities and overall a great life. so for him to write his life as a tragedy and unfair upbringing, was very much incorrect. self insecurities played a major role in his perspective. but definitely a hard read, and even harder to relate to.
That said, Rodriguez makes a good point when he says that more attention should be paid to economic disadvantage and to improving the elementary and high schools in poor neighborhoods so that students from such schools will be capable of going to college.
Rodriguez confuses the concept of Affirmative Action with the way such programs were carried out on a lot of college campuses.
He has a point that that should have been provided.Throughout the book, Rodriguez seems to be conflicted about his identity as a Mexican from a working-class family.
Indeed, at the time that he wrote this book,Rodriguez seems to be struggling with many personal issues.
When you come into a different environment that has a different language and tradition rather than what you are you feel awkward, just like a stranger and you try to act like you are one of them, but when your back home you feel better because you dont have to pretend in front of people that you're something else.
When I try to speak Indian people laugh, but I understand the language fully.
That is what Richard feels like in school and in that sort of environment and he has feelings of regrets.
“There are things so personal they can only be revealed to strangers.” For years I had condemned this book to the ‘conservative’ wing of American essays, but finally reading it, I’m pleasantly surprised.
Decades ago Rodriguez a “comic victim of two cultures” gained some notoriety for opposing bilingual ed and affirmative action when to suggest so was heresy among liberals.
This is a story of a Mexican-American child who excels at reading, writing and, by his adulthood, alienating his simple parents.
(Oh, and let's not forget Diana Gabaldon, romance author, visionary and innovator, a double-bacon genius burger whose roots are in Mexico even if her books are all set in Scotland!)Yet even today, in 2016, when you turn on the TV the "Mexican" character is usually someone like Tuco or Crazy Eight on BREAKING BAD.
More than thirty years after this book was written, Mexican = "bad guy" = "gang banger" = "dope dealer."Not all Mexican men are ruthless, fast-talking gangsters, stone cold killers with golden teeth and gang tattoos and big shiny cars that bounce up and down.

This book has honestly become a sort of diary to me.
Every single concept that Rodriguez writes about I can relate too.
Many are surprised to see me so "into" a book of such topic.
As a Mexican-american teenager, I can confidently say that this book is a true eye opener.
I enjoy seeing the openness with which Rodriguez speaks about his life, his beliefs, and his struggles.
The amount of possible meanings for each topic extend over a wide range, I enjoy the juxtaposition of him as a person.
He is awkwardly, some may say, placed in a world where he doesn't belong.
I liked this book, ok.
I mean I liked it because it was well-written but overall, it was just ok.
I thought at first he was devling into the transformation of immigrants until I was able to discuss this book with people of his ethnic background.
It did change my view of the book but not by much.
It still was a well written memoir.
He still sounds like a douchebag when reflecting back on his family and the cultural stigmas he has had to face throughout his career.I hope one day someone might write a rebuttal memoir to this memoir so I can read about the life of someone who didn't grow up to be someone with his head stuck up his ass trying to find the meaning of life through color.
Richard Rodriguez's Hunger of Memory is about the certain benefits and inevitable costs of getting higher education and the solitary life of a writer. His self-portraiture applies a rather austere and bleak and spartan writing style and voice and evokes an autobiographical speaker's convinced and convicted sense of melancholy, loss, loneliness, and lamentation. As a reader, I was kept away from getting too close for comfort and thus remained at an emotional and intellectual distance. Of course, it could just be me. It could be me. Hunger and Memory, be mine.
As a Mexican-American experiencing a similar childhood to Richard Rodriguez (my last name also being Rodriguez) I found this book extremely offensive. Despite the controversial aspect, fighting his culture vs. accepting it, the book consisted of constant complaints. This book presents an extremely negative view on Hispanic society. As a whole, I was extremely disappointed with the "renowned" Hunger of Memory.
Eloquent, evocative, powerful, painful memoir of the education and separation of the author from his culture and parents while attaining the "American dream".
I have been trying to figure out some of the deep anger and hate this book receives.
(Randomly found it at half price books and it seemed interesting enough) I am glad I don’t let reviews sway my reading choices.
Sadly, I think a lot of people did not grasp what Richard was trying to say.
I think also a lot of people forget it is a personal essay and speaking from his own point of view and understandings.
Truly so much of it was eye opening and I think it would do a lot of people good to read it.
In his view bilingual education prevents children from learning the public language that will be their passport to success in the public world, and he uses his own experience—being a bilingual child who was educated without bilingual education as it was introduced into the American school system in the 1960’s—as an example.Rodríguez offers himself as another example in criticizing affirmative action programs.
His devotion to education in language and life helped him develop the voice that he shares in his journalistic and readable prose style.I first encountered his voice while watching the News Hour on PBS where he was an essayist for many years.
Rodriguez reflects on the complications of bilingual education, emphasizing the difference between public and intimate languages.
(When he says proponents of affirmative action didn't understand the need to start early, not just concentrate on college admissions, he's simply wrong.) But he's always worth listening to and he'll force almost everyone to sharpen their arguments.And, as I wrote at the beginning, the book reads very differently as the point of departure for the complicated journey charted in his subsequent books.
He questions the teaching approach that is used with bilingual students, as he believes that bilingual students should be educated with the public language, as not focusing enough on the public, in his situation English, and his first known language, Spanish, does not prepare him, as well as others, for the public world and does not give the bilingual student a fair chance.
He also criticizes american affirmative action policies, as he believed he was offered certain jobs and positions only due to the fact that he was an educated Latino.
I believe this novel is one more intended for persons who have gone through the troubles of Richard Rodriguez, for which I have not.
I return to this book 8 years after I read if for the first time.
Longing for the days when the 'sounds' of his family brought meaning and recognition for what he was meant to be, for where he was meant to go (or was that a childhood illusion?).
A reader would find it difficult to ignore the author's emotional yearning for the past for a childhood now gone, when love, and family, and values, and identity made sense.
Mr. Rodriguez has done a superb job of capturing with words what many of us (first or second generation Americans) feel as members of families with similar backgrounds.
I can relate to his feelings about being a child of immigrant Mexican parents and one of my favorite essays is the one about his complexion.
Many times his essays are abstract intellectual reflections that are obtuse enough for me to not care.
Rodriguez's books is most enjoyable though as a personal account of what it was like to grow up as the only Mexican-American on the block.
I keep going back and forth on whether I like this book more or not.
It's easy to find the ex-homeboy accounts, which I also think are important, but not everyone of color grows up in the ghetto.

