https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24904.A_Birthday_for_Frances
Squeeze the chompo bar.
I love Frances.
I love when kids come to my house and clamor for more Frances books.
I love still having a few in reserve.
I love reading them to people.
I love reading them to myself.
I am barmy for Frances.But this Frances book has the best line in maybe the whole series, and one I quote on approximately 364 days each year: "That is how it is, Alice," said Frances.
"Your birthday is always the one that is not now."And usually when I quote it, I give your Chompo bar a little exploratory squeeze and wonder if maybe you aren't too little for a WHOLE Chompo bar of your own.
Take this exchange, after Frances asks her mother what their parents are giving her younger sister for her birthday:"'I am not going to give Gloria any present,' said Frances.'That is all right,' said Mother, and Frances began to cry.'What is the matter?' said Mother.
'Why are you crying?''Everybody is giving Gloria a present but me,' said Frances."I mean, certainly *my* children have *never* flip-flopped like that and thrown a weepy fit over something they had just refused...but I can see how some kids might...
A great level 2 book for beginner readers. A fun story and a good lesson in learning that birthday's aren't always all about you, but the person whose birthday it is. A good length with some new names that made it interesting and something my 5 yr old could relate to while he was reading it. We love the Frances books.
An awesome story book to read for fun or to help children understand the processes of giving and sharing. Frances wants to buy her sister a birthday present but is also jealous of it not being her birthday. Beautifully illustrated and very well written with gorgeous rhymes to sing aloud.
love these books
Frances' sister Gloria is having a birthday party, and as the preparations commence Frances begins to deal with feelings of jealousy over the attention Gloria is receiving.
When she realizes everyone is giving Gloria a present but her, she begins to cry, then lights upon the idea of buying Gloria a Chompo bar and some gumballs with an advance on her allowance.
Affection wins out, and Frances joyfully presents her gift to Gloria.Hoban writes this story with incisive characterization of how young children think, with several delightful moments in which children (and their parents) may recognize themselves.
I have recently discovered Frances, and I love her. Frances makes up songs - very quietly - and she runs away from home by hiding under the table. The books are clever, and sweet, and Frances is an introspective and thoughtful character. In this one, baby sister Gloria has a birthday. Frances get her a present that costs two weeks allowance, but she is mad at Gloria and maybe a little jealous and doesn't want to give her the present. But everything works out in the end.
I love Frances. She's a precocious little girl who has the typical lessons that need to be learned as a child. And, eventually, she learns them. This one is a classic--not your birthday, misunderstanding between siblings. She makes you smile even as she makes her mistakes. And I never get over how adorable the pictures are.
Frances is back with more delightful ditties and dialogue, but she's a bit churlish about little sister Gloria's birthday.
This is probably my least favorite but I always enjoy them, so I can't give it less than three stars because it is funny when she says "Me and Alice are going to have q-p-m and c-r-n" and her mom says "What's q-p-m and c-r-n?" and she replies, "Cake and ice cream, I thought you could spell."I do like how, at the beginning, she's grumpy because she's not the center of attention and isn't getting the stuff she wants - and then at the end she realizes my turn will come...and little sisters really are good for more than crying.
It's sweet.
:)(but...not more than 3 stars sweet.)
When Gloria's birthday comes around, her older sister Frances is debating on a gift to give her. Frances eventually decides on four gumballs and a candy bar. After Frances eats the four gumballs, she starts to wonder if she should keep the candy bar for herself. A great story to talk about siblings and sharing.
Amusing badger child has a lot of trouble when it's his sister Gloria's birthday. But he doesn't want to be left out when it appears everyone else has a present for her but him. Parents gently guide him to do the right thing.
This book is on the longer side because it is an older book.But it is still very funny and the kids could totally relate to the feelings of sibling jealousy.My kids teased each other about chompo bars afterwards.
I love Frances! I read this out loud as my father wrapped presents this weekend and we laughed and laughed at her sassy attitude and silly sayings.
One of my childhood faves! I enjoyed reading to my child
I love reading these books out loud (not always to children, sometimes just to myself) because I love singing Francis' tuneless little songs.
Frances learns about jealousy during her sister's birthday
Deals with sibling rivalry and jealousy. Read with Naomi.
32 pages.First sentence: It was the day before Frances's little sister Gloria's birthday.
Will Gloria receive a Chompo bar for her birthday?
"Alice is somebody that nobody can see," said Frances.
So I am singing Happy Thursday to her." "Today it is Friday," said Mother.
"It is Thursday for Alice," said Frances.
"I am sure that Alice will have cake and candy on her birthday," said Mother.
"But Alice does not have a birthday," said Frances.
But tomorrow is Gloria's birthday, and she will be the birthday girl." "That is how it is, Alice," said Frances.
1.5 stars While I really enjoyed the illustrations in this book, the story wasn't the greatest and I don't particularly want my young nieces to read this one. Much of this reason relates to the primary character: Frances the Badger. There were a number of things I didn't care for in this story:I did not like how Frances used random letters to spell words, and I especially did not like that her mother did not correct her or help her understand how to properly spell those words. I did not like th
While I really enjoyed the illustrations in this book, the story wasn't the greatest and I don't particularly want my young nieces to read this one.
I also didn't like that Frances ate the four gumballs she bought for Gloria with the money her mother advanced her from her allowance, and again she wasn't corrected by her parents for doing so.
I was raised better, and I hope children nowadays are, too.About the only way I can see this story being acceptable for young children is if it is a read-aloud book with a parent or another older friend/relative who can point out the problems I've mentioned above and explain proper behaviors.
Like big sisters everywhere the world over, Frances the badger is narcissistic, selfish, bossy, and mean to her little sister.It is the day before little sister Gloria's birthday party, and Mother and Gloria are sitting at the kitchen table making placecards for the party.
The drawings are masterful, beautifully rendered, and are often as funny as the writing.Frances has to struggle with her self-centered nature in order to help Gloria celebrate her birthday, which mostly involves giving her the Chompo bar that she has bought her as a gift, when what Frances really wants to do is eat it herself.The reality of Frances is what is so wonderful in these books.
Frances, on the other hand, is a force of nature.
Frances wants to keep the Chompo bar for herself, but gives it to Gloria, who eats the whole thing.Also nice is the bit about Frances' imaginary friend Alice who doesn't have birthdays.
Frances sings "Happy Thursday to you" to Alice, even though it's Friday.OK, so it's kind of weird that the characters in these books are badgers (!).
But what's really weird is that in the beginning of the book, only the mom is wearing clothes.
Then for the party, the mom and the kids (including the guests) are wearing clothes, but the dad is still completely naked.
"I will be out of town visiting Alice for two weeks,and I will be back for dinner."The other day, my coworker and I were reminiscing about children's books since I've been looking for ones to read to Caleb, and I fondly remembered the Frances books.
I didn't remember ever reading this birthday one, but she told me it was one of the best, so I wanted to read it right away.
Because of her misspellings, we were wondering how old Frances is -- four?
Frances is super sassy and I look forward to revisiting the rest of these books too!"'You would not eat Gloria's Chompo Bar,would you?' said Father.'It is not Gloria's yet,' said Frances."
This is an adorable little tale of conscience where Frances deals with what she wants, and what is right about jealousy and fairness when it comes to her sister's birthday present and party.
It is a good one for early discussion on what the right thing to do would be and how to make things end well for every one involved.
There will always be a place on our shelves for Frances early readers.
And now I think we have almost all of them in the early reader format outside of Bedtime for Frances.
I am fortunate that this is among my daughter's favorite books.
Russell Hoban captures the richness that pervades children's thoughts, words, and interactions, and he does it without any of the heavy-handed tropes so common to children's literature.
The "Frances" books in general are marked by healthy and amusing parent, child, and sibling relationships, all betwixt endearingly flawed individuals.
Particularly good about this title is the unmitigated generosity displayed by one character at the end, an admirable denouement to a storyline that many writers would have moralized into a tepid display of perfunctory sharing.
Hoban resists the obvious, yet never veers from the true and believable.
I bought the record of this with my own money when I was in grade school from the Scholastic Book club. I listened to the record over and over again. I memorized it.As I've given gifts, I've remembered how Frances gave "two whole allowances" to her sister Gloria for her birthday--the ultimate sacrifice for her. I loved how the parent's taught Frances to be nice to Gloria. I also loved Frances' imaginary friend Alice--I had an imaginary friend when I was a kid.My sister gave this to me for my birthday because she knew I loved it so much.
All the Frances stories get childhood just right. The details are what make these stories so insightful--the way Frances squeezes the chocolate bar she really wishes she could keep for herself instead of giving it to her sister Gloria for her birthday, the way she "spells" words, the way Mother is always nearby even when Frances goes "out of town." The Hobans present the self-centeredness of childhood with so much compassion, children can see themselves in these characters and forgive themselves, and each other. That's what makes them such powerful stories.
What does Frances want to get Gloria for her birthday? Nothing because Gloria lost Frances' pail and shovel and Frances is short on forgiveness. She finally gets an advance on her allowance and buys Gloria a Chompo bar and some bubble gum, but she's not sure she will give the Chompo bar because little sisters aren't much good at anything. Frances and Albert discuss younger siblings and use some magical spelling to sort outtheir frustrations. Also Frances does her version of the birthday song.
Frances cannot get into the spirit for her sister Gloria's birthday. She is just too jealous of all the attention Gloria is getting. But at the end, Frances does the right thing. A good tale for younger elementary and preschoolers. Most children have these feelings and to see a fictional character share them and then work through it can be quite helpful.My grandsons gave the book high marks.
