https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77160.Across_the_Nightingale_Floor
I would think that it being set in Japan, Hearn would have learned anything about the place, but she apparently did not.
But this is the least of her offenses.Language Other novels written about or in Japan (Shogun, to name one) have tried to successfully capture the way people spoke; saying one thing and meaning another.
You just like everyone looking Asian?So, aside from the fact that Hearn fails terribly at representing the people she set out to, how's the rest of the book?The characters are weak with unoriginal histories that are not spiced up in the least bit.
I read it, i loved it and then my brain completely erased all the data i had on the book.
Life happened and i forgot about it, but last year i was in a bookstore and i saw the second book of the series sitting on the self in front of me.
I stopped, stared at it and immediatly thought of the book that i have read years ago.
The more i read the more i remembered and the more i remembered the more i was enjoying and loving it.
I just loved this book for the second time.
(hide spoiler)] Yes, it really is that bad.Conversely, the romance aspect between two secondary characters was more touching, more realistic, and should've been developed a bit more.But, anyway, even before we got to the eye-rolls of the romance - and I mean this literally.
This is a weird book for anyone who has more than a passing knowledge of Japan.The author is a great fan of Japan, its culture and its history.
And if you don't know much about the history and culture of Japan, that all shouldn't be a problem.It's the story of a boy from an isolated town, one of the Hidden - a small religious sect that faces political and religious ostracism (see Christians in the Edo Period) from an isolationist and power-hungry warlord (see Tokugawa Ieyasu).
Neither the setting nor the period is intended to correspond to any true historical era, though echoes of many Japanese customs and traditions will be found, and the landscape and seasons are those of Japan...." Alternate reality and borrowing from life isn't anything new.
I think I just changed history when I squashed that bug.
There could be warnings about the odds of young adult fantasy novels being about a young hero who magically has all of the powers he's going to need inside of him?
Maybe doesn't step far enough out of kinda the same stories of female quasi leads in hero quest fantasies (you know, I'm a woman.
It deserves a whole star just for that amazing title!
How could you not read a book called Across the Nightingale Floor?
So the title was great, the cover was good but how was the story?
Well it was pretty good.
I enjoyed the Japanese feel to it although by the end I was a little tired of all the honour which obliged people to do anything other than what they wanted to.
There were some good characters not all of whom made it to the end of the book!
Altogether it was a good read although sadly not good enough to make me search out the sequel.
This book was great, I would love to see it made into a movie. It was like reading the plot of a great Kung Fu movie, with a touch of "Memoirs of a Geisha" and some magic thrown in. I will eagerly read the next book.
It has its flaws and things did bother me (particularly the insta-love) but I'm looking forward to reading the sequels.
I liked him from the beginning and his character had a lot of potential.
At the beginning, I felt bad for her but it's sad to think that other than her killing Iida at the end all I associate with her is falling in love with Takeo and the whole feeling faint/ill a lot thing.
*Shrugs* Bring on the aftermath.- I really liked the platonic relationships: Shigeru and Takeo, Kaede and Shizuka, etc.
When you take a look at the plotline, Across the Nightingale Floor has all the ingredients of an average epic fantasy: We have the orphaned hero, who is rescued by a noble stranger and discovers he has special abilities.
But beware: Hearn definitely isn't scared of killing off favourites, so if you can't live with that, you probably should stay away from this novel ;).
The only thing that irked me a little bit: The love at first sight moment between the hero and the heroine.
I definitely would have liked to see some more development here, not just one moment of instant attraction.
The boy, Tomasau/Taeko, hops around with different names while he's trained by a SHOGUN style samurai in the use of weaponry but also in the use of his magical powers.
The girl, Kaede, is the political prisoner of another SHOGUN style family where she must suffer insults and pray that prosperity is returned to her family, who were on the losing side of a war.
The boy's SHOGUN style savior/father figure is also from a losing side and he is playing a dangerous game: there are some within and outside of his family who want to see him dead.
A more powerful SHOGUN style lord has invited him to come to his domain and marry Kaede.
Lieblingsbuch.Es wird Zeit für einen Re-Read. Zehn Jahre, nachdem ich es das erste Mal gelesen habe.
Considering I've already spent money on the remaining books, I expect I'll get around to finding out eventually but I wouldn't bother if I hadn't already got them.It has a feel of feudal Japan to it and reminded me in parts of 'House of Flying daggers' (which is one of my favourite films), and that may be why I persevered with it.It's aimed at younger readers but has adult themes running though it and perhaps that's where my ambiguity is coming from....it's adult enough to make it enjoyable, but not enough to make it engrossing.I don't know.
Despite all the violence and killing, it's actually quite a gentle book and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it for younger readers.Think of it as a mashup of 'House of Flying daggers' and 'Crouching Tiger' but for a younger audience.

I zoomed through it due to the gripping storyline and the vivid scenery and characters.In a land that is similar to feudal Japan, warlords are battling for power.
Takeo is caught in between, inadvertently, when his village is destroyed by the evil Lord Iida and he is taken under Lord Otori Shigeru's wing.
Not so surprisingly, Takeo has not manifested powers that come to light while living with Shigeru.
What I liked most about this novel is that it was one of those rare YA books that don't feel like YA.
Also, destiny is a dark and sometimes tragic thing, losing control over your own life - not just a way to get everything from life without having to earn it!The characters are flat, the language simplistic, the description basic and lackluster, the cultural coloring nothing beyond popculture crap, the plot contrived, the ending rushed, the motivations...I could go on and on.
It basically reads like a bad RPG session of The Legend of the Five Rings.The first half: an incredibly long buildup with no sense of direction.
3.5⭐A great potential wasted on nonsensical romance between two raging hormones. This was a fantastic read minus that painful insta-love that literally developed the very moment the two laid eyes on one another. At the very least learn each other’s fucking names first!
3.5⭐️A great potential wasted on nonsensical romance between two raging hormones. This was a fantastic read minus that painful insta-love that literally developed the very moment the two laid eyes on one another. At the very least learn each other’s fucking names first!
Interesting setting in a (fantastical) Japan. Enjoyable story and characters. I especially liked that Kaede, the female protagonist, was not simply a damsel in distress. But I could have done without the instalove.
Ένας εντελώς διαφορετικός κόσμος..... Πολύ ωραίο....
Someone is always there to take away their choice in one way or another.Takeo, who is the main character, was an interesting person to follow.
It's hard to blame him for that weakness though, because it seems like there's no way to escape these groups who want him.
It was like Takeo was an old man at the time and was reciting his coming of age story.
A lot of books have a bad habit of making their characters seem like they live in a vacuum.
It was a little disheartening.Even though I did feel distanced from the story it succeeded in making me root for characters.
He is rescued by the mysterious Lord Otori Shigeru, who adopts Takeo and brings him into his plans to overthrow the lord who destroyed Takeo's village, and Takeo discovers that he has supernatural talents which tie him to a guild of assassins and spies.The elements of the plot are fairly standard -- orphaned hero, mysterious rescuer, hidden talents, love at first sight (with the heroine, Shirakawa Kaede), an evil overlord to conquer, prophecies which must be fulfilled -- but Hearn weaves them together in a way that could well be interesting to read.
I thought the story was interesting, I liked many of the characters, I really wanted to like the books more, but I couldn't cross the distance created by the style to become really absorbed in them.
There are two readers — a man for the voice of Takeo, and a woman for the voice of Kaede.
The man is an excellent reader with a lovely voice (he's got the oriental speech sounds just right).
I think his reading made me sympathize with Takeo more than I would have if I had read the book in print format.
Fortunately, most of the book is written with Takeo's narration, so her reading didn't ruin it for me.
Also, I think, as an American reader, I might have benefited from actually seeing the oriental names, rather than only hearing them.


Otherwise, I quite look forward to reading the rest of the series, though I'm in no tearing rush to find them.
Also, I'm quite a fan of some of the author's non-pseudonymous work.Now having read some of the negative reviews on the site, I'm a little appalled by how people are freaking out about how Ms Hearn isn't properly 'dignifying' Japanese culture (and usually, so far as I can tell, these people aren't all that familiar with the culture to begin with.) The book, like a lot of manga, doesn't pretend to be realistic, so the high level of dudgeon directed towards it on that account is certainly unwarranted.
Ένα παραμυθάκι που ήταν γεμάτο με μαγεία και άτομα με εξαιρετικές ικανότητες.
Το πρόβλημα είναι ότι για να μου αρέσει ένα βιβλίο πρέπει να μην υστερεί στις περιγραφές και αυτό είχε σοβαρές ελλείψεις.
Δεν μπόρεσα να κάνω εικόνα κανέναν από τους πρωταγωνιστές, μόνο ότι ο ένας ήταν ψηλός, ένας άλλος είχε ωραίο χαμόγελο και η άλλη (επίτηδες δεν βάζω ονόματα) ήταν πολύ όμορφη.
Τί φορούσαν; Πώς χτενιζόταν; Πώς ήταν τα όπλα τους; Τα τοπία; Τα κάστρα και τα σπίτια που ζούσανε πώς ήταν; Οι φωνές τους; Τέλος πάντων, ειλικρινά πιστεύω ότι σε εφήβους θα αρέσει, εγώ μάλλον παραμεγάλωσα για αυτό.
Pretty, overall. Very "wuxia." I wanted a little more binding everyone together, and a little less sex next to corpses, though.CONTENT WARNINGS: (not actual spoilers, just a list of topics) (view spoiler)[genocide, attempted rape (lots of attempted rape), rape culture, death of a loved one, death of a child, pretty constant child abuse, torture (a lot of torture) (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The writing. It really created a painting in your mind of what was happening. I'm going to also include
Very "wuxia." I wanted a little more binding everyone together, and a little less sex next to corpses, though.CONTENT WARNINGS: (not actual spoilers, just a list of topics) (view spoiler)[genocide, attempted rape (lots of attempted rape), rape culture, death of a loved one, death of a child, pretty constant child abuse, torture (a lot of torture)  (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The writing.
Saving someone's life may create a bond, yes.
As the relationships were what created the plot, getting them right was pretty crucial.
Real dick move at the end there, Takeo.
Long conversations, flimsy explanations and detailed summaries are shortcuts used here contributing to a severe lack of depth concerning Takeo's character and a level of unreadability to his chapters as I was unable to connect or sympathise with him.On the other hand, Kaede, our heroine, manages to engender sympathy for her plight right away.
Takeo, Shigeru, Iida, Kenji and the Tribe.
As super secrets assassins go I wasn't terribly impressed with the Tribe.
Out of all the assassin scenes Takeo's acts of mercy were the ones to make a good impression on me and a bad one on Kenji, Takeo's teacher:
The boy, Tomasau/Taeko, hops around with different names while he's trained by a SHOGUN style samurai in the use of weaponry but also in the use of his magical powers.
The girl, Kaede, is the political prisoner of another SHOGUN style family where she must suffer insults and pray that prosperity is returned to her family, who were on the losing side of a war.
The boy's SHOGUN style savior/father figure is also from a losing side and he is playing a dangerous game: there are some within and outside of his family who want to see him dead.
A more powerful SHOGUN style lord has invited him to come to his domain and marry Kaede.
Right from the beginning, this book will grab you. The characters and setting are so exotic and enticing...you will first want to be there, and then, as you read, start to feel that you are.I was so caught up in the fantastic descriptions and places that I wasn't even thinking as much about the plot! There were a couple of twists and turns that left me gasping in disbelief. A magnificent story in every aspect, can't wait to read the rest!
This wasn't bad at all. I think I want to read book 2. I had a few issues with it but I think it had to do with my own ethnocentric views about the culture. I totally get the entire loyalty thing, the submissive nature between servant (which is everyone but the lords) and the Lords, and the whole clan/tribe thing but I still felt weird about it. I needed more resolution in the end, I don't know. Still thinking about this...excuse the rant.
