https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375902.Inch_by_Inch
Here's a clever little inchworm. Good job, buddy!Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This is a wonderful book to help students begin their adventure into measuring! In the book, a little inch worm uses his ability to measure different animals before to convince the other animals no to eat him. This is a great book to use with younger students. I gave my students a piece of yarn to measure things around the room, and they loved it! I will be sure to keep this book in my classroom library.
Nightingale: How long is my song?Inch Worm: (from other side of the planet) I'm not sure yet, keep singing and I'll let you know!
Great way to talk to my students about measurement! I remember getting this book read to me in Elementary School.
Preciosas ilustraciones que acompañan a una, si bien breve, divertida historia de la oruga-que-mide. Sí, una oruga que puede medir de todo... ¿Hasta el canto del ruiseñor? Pues hay que leer para descubrirlo.Recomendado para leer con los pequeños de la casa.
Inch by Inch is a picture book that’s pages show mostly pictures with small text written in the corners.
It shares a story of an inch worm and how he can measure things.
The inch worm is almost eaten at the beginning of the story but is able to show the bird how useful he can be and measures the bird’s tale.
With the text so small I imagine this book is meant to be read to children or have them focus on the pictures and disregard the words.
This is a great starter to an activity where students measure items.
This book tells a story of an inch worm who is threatened first by a hungry robin.
Rather than being eaten, the inchworm bargains with the robin and tells him that he is useful and that he will measure his tale.
The robin sees the usefulness of the worm and takes him to other birds to measure their beaks or legs.
Unsure as to how to do this, the inchworm still agrees and inches along a path as the bird sing.
I'm sure children would love to read through this story and find out how the inchworm escapes from a seemingly impossible task of measuring a song.
**** Caldecott Honor (1961) ****Sometimes, the best things in life are the simplest. This is a great example. Simple but pretty pictures tell the simple story of a simple little inch worm who shows how using your wits can save your bacon. To keep from being eaten, an inchworm measures a robin's tail, a flamingo's neck, a toucan's beak, a heron's legs, and a nightingale's song.
4 stars for such a sweet book!The illustrations are simple, yet incredibly unique! The use of texture is truly amazing! Lionni's use of humor in this story leads to a very witty moral and interesting story overall. This story could be used to teach children about measurement, nature, and even about thinking "outside of the box" to be successful. Great story, with beautiful illustrations!
The cleverness of the inchworm in the tale is really one for the books!
I would use this book to introduce measuring to young children or just have fun singing it to them and they sing along 👍🏿
I loved that the illustrations took on a whimsical quality while still remaining realistic and that the text gave human qualities to the inch worm and the various birds it depicted.
The illustrations in this book, which were created using a combination of collage, colored pencil and crayon, are whimsical yet realistic in their depiction of the worm and his measurement of the different birds he encounters!
Personally, I can imagine using this text as a read aloud story at home or for a classroom unit on nature as it presents perfect examples of various animals for younger kids to identify and learn about while also remaining easy to understand for new readers!
measure." And then while the nightingale sings, he just keeps measuring, off into the distance, to get away from the nightingale.I think what the book is trying to say is, "If you have a useful ability, people will respect you for it," but with the combination of the birds repeatedly threatening to eat the inchworm if he doesn't comply, and the inchworm's skill being limited to measurement, which seems like it would be completely useless to a bird (and in fact to most things) (and also that inchworms don't actually measure things because they're not intelligent but whatever) it basically turns into, "People will threaten to kill you if you don't do what they say." And while that may be true in certain circumstances, I certainly hope it's not true in my child's daily life.
However, before the nightingale ate him, the inchworm came up with a solution.
This book is a lot of fun to read.
The pictures are all very captivating and interactive because the reader tries to find the inchworm on every page.
It also has a good meaning behind it in that there is always a solution, even in the stickiest of situations.
It really was just a good, cute book!I thought this book was a lot of fun.
I also thought the inchworm was a cute character.
It is very interactive because the inchworm is in a different spot on each page, so readers try to look and find it.
I think children really like this book because it is a quick read but has a fun and motivational story behind it.
This book allows students to learn about many different types of birds and get an idea of what they look like through the illustrations on each page.
While the illustrations on each page are simple, they are very beneficial to readers and allow them to understand the birds and other animals the book talks about.
Children love this book because it has bright colors and fun illustrations that help them maintain interest.
This book tells the story of an inch worm and how inches are used to measure things.
Inch by Inch is a great educational book for young children.
It teaches children what an inch is and how it can be used in real life.
The book is short and simple which is good for young children, but I think the author could have incorporated more examples of what an inch is.
The author could have also explained how in real life we do not use worms to measure things.
The book gave a worm and other animals the ability to speak words, which does not happen in real life.
This book is perfect for kids around the ages 0f 4-7 because it involves a good amount of small text with detailed illustrations.
The illustrations in this book are definitely a collage medium with colored pencil and crayon use as well.
There are many double-paged illustrations of the different animals involved, so the illustrations will jump out at readers and they will see the vibrant colors and details of the different animals.
I would use this book in a classroom or at home because kids will love the illustrations of the animals and the nature involved.
It is a simple book for new readers that also involves detailed descriptions of different animals.
Once a nightingale finds his talent useful, he asks the inchworm to measure everything.
Using his wit and creativity, the inchworm decides he will measure the song by "inching away" as to escape the nightingale.The theme of this short story is creativity and cleverness.
The inchworm had a talent, and used his wit and quick thinking to get out of being taken for granted.
If I were to have read this book as a child, I would have been very proud of the inchworm for getting away from the threatening nightingale so cleverly.
It would seem that Lionni's intended message is that it's good to be clever.
I think that some unintended messages lurk beneath the surface though.The robin wants to eat the inchworm, who claims to be useful because it measures things.
When faced with overwhelming force, make yourself useful to preserve yourself from destruction.After measuring the robin's tail, the inchworm is taken to other birds who "needed to be measured." What utility does the inchworm actually provide?
Yet they need to be measured.What things do we "need" in our life that are actually just cluttering up our lives and creating unnecessary desires?By all means, read this book and reflect.
Awards: Caldecott Medal 1961Appropriate Age Level: 3-8 yearsOriginal Summary: As an inchworm is confronted by a hungry robin, he insists he is useful and can measure things.
So he measures the robin's tail, a flamingo's neck, a toucan's beak, and so on, until he reaches a nightingale who is going to eat him unless he can measure his song.
Original Review: This book is filled with classic pictures, having you want to search for the inchworm on each page.
It asks the question, Can a song be measured?In-Class Uses: This book can be used to introduce measuring and students can measure things using unifix cubes.
This book is about an inchworm that measures things (mostly birds in the story). One day a nightingale threatens to eat him unless he measures her song. The inchworm tricks the nightingale by pretending to measure her song, but he escapes instead. I love the ending of this story because I was not suspecting it which is very clever. I love the beautiful illustrations as well which are big and colorful. I recommend this book for grades K-2. With this book I would create a lesson on measuring. I would also create a lesson on birds or the inchworm.
It seems like this book would work nicely as an integrated part of an early math curriculum for young children just learning how to measure. As a standalone storybook, it isn't all that engaging. Not one that my little ones asked for more than once. And, although I liked the artwork more than the illustrations in https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1..., they still aren't visually captivating for me. Interesting, yes. Clever, yes. My eyes want to linger on the page? No.
One day a small inch worm is almost gobbled up by a robin, only to secure his life with his ability to measure things.
The robin takes the inch worm to a land where he can measure other birds.
One day a nightingale ask the inch worm to measure a song, not being able to the inch worm makes a quick getaway and inches away!
This book would be excellent for a math tie in to reading, using measurements and understanding them.
I would use this in a first grade classroom when discussing rulers and the basic principals of what measuring is.
Inch by Inch is one of my favorite books. This book is about a witty worm that measures things. One day hes about to be eaten if he doesn't measure this nightingale's song. The clever inchworm tells the bird he will measure its song and when the bird starts to sing me just keeps crawling away until hes gone. This is a cute book for children and carries a message of always be on your toes and think before you do things. Your never trapped and can always do your best to think of a solution and execute it.
I thought this book was great for a younger elementary classroom.
The wording is very repetitive and catchy for children.
It's about an inchworm meeting new animals and measuring how long they are.
The pictures are very detailed in what the inchworm is doing.
It almost looks like the illustrations are drawn by colored pencils.
The technique used would most likely be naive art.
The page's layout changes every page.
On one page the text may be in a completely different spot than the next page.
It was beautifully drawn and laid out.
Overall, I thought the book was cute for grades K-3.
This book is very cute! It talks about measuring using characters and inches! The story follows a caterpillar around as he measures multiple "things" and tells how long they are. He comes across a bird who asked him to measure his song or he will be eaten. The caterpillar has to come up with a quick way to measure his song! Lesson- use this book to introduce measurement with inches. Have the students create worms to measure with. Allow the students to measure multiple items around the classroom using their caterpillars and record their findings.
In this story, a whimsical inchworm is fascinated with measuring the world around him, from the beak of a toucan to the blades of grass thats all around him. When faced by a monumental problem from a nightingale, the inchworm is challenged to use his measure skills to save himself.Literary Awards: Caldecott Honor (1961)APA Citation: Lionni, L. (1960). Inch by inch: an Astor Book. New York: Obolensky.
This book is about a very smart little inch worm that was about to get eaten up by many birds until they realized how useful he really was. I would recommend this book because it shows children that even if something we think is useless or small it really can be helpful and we should never overlook someone. I think this is great for younger children just because it is not complex vocabulary and the illustrations are easy to follow for them to understand the context.
The premise of this book is simple: an inchworm discovers that he is an effective unit of measurement and explores the world of things to measure. The illustrations and text are reminiscent of Eric Carle, but fall a little short in terms of attention-grabbing and memorability. I believe that this book would be ideal for young children who are learning how to count and measure, because if the inconclusive ending is disregarded, this book is helpful for teaching these concepts.
A super cute math informational book in which a little inch gets a bird to let him live by showing how valuable he is because he can measure things! He starts with a robin, then a flamingo, toucan, heron among many others! Things are going well until the nightingale asks him to measure his song, threatening to eat him if he didn’t. He measured until he inched himself away into hiding! This is perfect for children who are learning the importance if measurements!
