https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32349.Mutant_Message_Down_Under
Everyone told me that if I wanted to learn more about the Aboriginal people of Australia, this book was a must read.The book presents itself as a memoir and, more importantly, as an accurate (if perhaps fictionalized) communication of Aboriginal beliefs and culture.
I have a problem with the fact that this book is racist, it promotes dangerous ideas about an already misunderstood ethnic minority and most importantly, I have a problem with the fact that because both the publisher and Marlo Morgan have made a sh*t ton of money from this book, they have made no attempt whatsoever to correct the idea that this book is a memoir, or to retract the book's false assertions about Aboriginal and their beliefs.
The author states the book was written after the fact inspired by actual experience.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و یکم ماه ژانویه سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: پیام گم گشته؛ نویسنده: مارلو مورگان؛ مترجم: فرناز فرود؛ ویراستار: مهرداد فلاح؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کتاب آوند دانش، 1388، در 214 ص؛ موضوع: عرفان بومیان استرالیا - سده 20 ممردمان قبیله ای بیابان‌ نشین، در استرالیا، که خود را مردمان حقیقی می‌خوانند، از یک زن آمریکایی دعوت می‌کنند، تا در سفری چهار ماهه، در بیابان، آنها را همراهی کند.

I have read this book three times in my life.
I feel my skin getting pink and sunburny just thinking about it!The people in the book ate giant spiders at one point.
The same morning that I read that chapter, I saw a giant spider in my bathroom.
So the spiders (or snakes) run (slither) onto the goo and get stuck.
Thinking about the aborigines made me feel super ungrateful, so I ate the spider to make up for it.
I can’t get him off the sticky stuff without breaking his legs or touching him.

I do give her points for trying to convey peaceful, happy, self-centering messages, but overall the book is a flop.After reading the book I researched Marlo Morgan and found out that she merely worked for four months in a pharmacy in Queensland, came back to the United States and started selling Melaleuca, a tea tree oil based product.
She began supplementing and boosting her sales by handing out manuscripts of her "experiences" with Aboriginals and the healing powers of tea tree oil.
I think she merely found a way to make big bucks on a hugely fabricated story.
This book is one of the most offensive pieces of tripe I have ever read. Apart from being appallingly written, her white cultural superiority is difficult to ignore and her misappropriation and lies about the culture and heritage of Australian Indigenous people is horrifying. Her romanticism of a proud culture is nauseating and if anything, only serves to perpetuate the orientalist myth of 'other'.Ignore this book and any other books she may have written giving 'insight' into Australian Indigenous ways of life. What a fraud....
After seeing reviews here stating this book is full of untruths and misrepresentations of the Aboriginal people, I cruised the web in search of more information.
The half-truths and outright lies in this book have greatly angered and offended the peoples of the Dumbartung Aboriginal Corporation and other communities throughout Australia.
Marlo Morgan condescends, lies about, and violates the sacred laws of the Aboriginal people in the name of making money on her book.I am ashamed to admit I liked this book a lot when I first read it about ten years ago.
Reading through the other reviews I feel a lot of people are seriously missing the point of the message in this book.
The story she tells is a beautiful way of sharing an eternal truth that many generations before us understood and some cultures today still teach and practice.
I imagine that those who looked past the writing style, the fact that it was fictionalized, or whatever petty details might have bothered them about this book, can really open their hearts and see what a beautiful message this is and how it can profoundly change your outlook on life, like I know it already has for many others.
کتاب و جایی دیدم جلدروش جلبم کرد - پی دی اف شو خوندم از همون صفحات اول خوشم اومد اوایلش جذاب بود از قلم مورگان خوشم اومد پند اموز بود
I've spent a lot of time researching Australian Aboriginal cultures, and there were a lot of things described in this book that seemed fabricated.
The things that I learned from the book I was surprised about so I looked them up and found them to be inaccurate.The book has been rejected by the Australian Aborigines as an offensive and misleading book and Marlo Morgan has admitted that the story is fictional.
Please don't read the book...it is just misleading.
I'd recommend Bruce Chatwin's Songlines or Rabbit Proof Fence (2002 film) for entertaining and enlightening information on Australian Aborigines.
nice easy read but it sticks with you
this might be the worst book ever written. I know that it was somewhat controversial due to its content, but to be completely honest I couldn't even be bothered with the content. I've seen essays written by 5th graders with more of a grasp on English grammar. The poor writing quality was too much to get past so the content didn't even matter. I hardly even put a book down before it's finished... I made an exception for this one though! yuck.
This is a piece of complete bilge, a gross and grotesquely offensive attempt to misrepresent Australian Aboriginal culture. To call it a load of bollocks would be excessively polite. Please refer to http://dumbartung.org.au/ and follow the links, to find out what real Australian Aborigines think of this rubbish.
Even if you say, "oh, it's fiction, listen to the message", well, who wants to absorb a message from a BIG FAT LIAR?*The author makes like a wannabe anthropologist, inventing a tribe of people living in Australia who basically abduct her and force her to go on a death-defying "walkabout" with them.She proceeds to deify them and diss her own culture, all the while saying she is not judgmental.
The "Real People" of the tribe are perfect in every way, and the "Mutants" of basically everyone else (the white man?
The narrator of this book is a middle-aged American woman who is kidnapped by a group of nomadic Aborigines and taken on a several-months-long walkabout through the Australian bush.
Except resulting criticism from experts show the story to be a gross misrepresentation of Australian Aboriginal culture and the response from Aboriginal people is that the book is not only a blatantly fictional account, but also offensive and racist.
And yet I can’t gush about it because there’s a greater part of me that wishes the author would have chosen a more legitimate means of addressing the spiritually bereft American psyche without insulting a group of people and adding fuel to the race fire.
(Although, if you want to read this, which I strongly suggest you don't do, please take note of the controversy surrounding this book!)In fact, I might even have just given four stars and pointed that fact out to you, if the book had been good.
One would have thought that, having travelled with people of such eye-opening wisdom and naming herself a travelling tongue, Marlo Morgan should have been able to describe which wonderful experiences and thoughts led her to beliefs such as "You shouldn't hide yourself from the world" or "It is important to look for the harmony within" or even "Don't put so much importance on things, look toward people and emotions instead".
This book changed my life. When I read this book, I couldn't put it down. I wanted to become an aboriginal person and learn how to live peacefully within the world. It blew my mind to think of a world without disease. This book opened up the possibility of what life could be, one where life did not constantly revolve around the next fear to conquer. Relaxing into the flow of the universe, I learned that all is truly well.
This book is awesome! It's a non fiction about a woman who spends 3 months on a walkabout with Australian Aborigines. It will change your whole perception of American culture.
What the book tells us: The author, Marlo Morgan, was summoned to Australia under the premise of learning about Aboriginal culture; but she ended up getting somewhat tricked into a deeply transforming walkabout through the desert with an unheard of tribe of aboriginals.
Critics, of course, say this is a major reason to doubt the story.My understanding is that Marlo Morgan claims this book to be a truthful memoir marketed as fiction in order to protect the Real People from invasion or other negative consequences.
If you are one of those who believe indigenous, hunter-gatherer peoples have a certain innate wisdom that our culture dismisses or doesn’t value or has forgotten, then you might like it as well.
The isolated group call themselves the "Real People," and they want the author to accompany them on a 1,400 mile, four-month long journey through the rugged desert Outback.
The tribe calls outsiders like you and me, “Mutants.” Among other things, the Real People believe that “Mutants can no longer live in the open environment; most die never knowing what it feels like to have stood naked in the rain.
Work all their lives to buy things.
please see:- the reports of the dumbartung group specifically concerning this book (http://dumbartung.org.au/)- the dumbartung aboriginal corporation's main website (http://www.dumbartungaboriginalcorpor...)- articles written by jon carroll for the san francisco chronicle about the book and unravelling of the hoax (http://www.sfgate.com/entertainment/c...)final note: if you do read the book to think about big ideas, ponder the amount of money that the author has made from selling the publishing rights, the movie rights, and from writing follow up books.
see if you can find a record of the amount of money she has given to aboriginal groups.

This book was given to me by a lovely but credulous woman (She also believed in the predictions of Ramtha; namely that in 1997 the Australian coast would be devastated by tidal waves).
I read it fairly soon after it was published and before the debunking began, yet it was very obvious to me VERY early on in the book that it was complete fabrication by someone who was to dumb to read up on the culture she was misrepresenting.My original review; "Pathetic hogwash.
خیلی اتفاقی پی دی اف این کتاب رو دانلود کردم.با خواندن مقدمش جذب کتاب شدم. از خوندنش خیلی لذت بردم.کتاب «پیام گمگشته»، داستان مارلو مورگان از سفری است که همراه قبیلهٔ سرخپوستان ابوری جینی در استرالیا شکلگرفته است. مارلو (گمگشته) از قبل برای این سفر برنامهریزی نکرده و حتی آمادگی هم نداشته اما درنهایت تجربه و یادگیریهایش خلاصهٔ این کتاب و راه و روش زندگیاش شد. مهارتهایی که از مردم حقیقی (ابوری جینی) آموخت و او را با اصل زندگی آشنا ساخت.خلاصهٔ داستانماجرا از این قرار است که نویسندۀ کتاب در اصل پزشک
از خوندنش خیلی لذت بردم.کتاب «پیام گم‌گشته»، داستان مارلو مورگان از سفری است که همراه قبیلهٔ سرخ‌پوستان ابوری جینی در استرالیا شکل‌گرفته است.
مارلو (گم‌گشته) از قبل برای این سفر برنامه‌ریزی نکرده و حتی آمادگی هم نداشته اما درنهایت تجربه و یادگیری‌هایش خلاصهٔ این کتاب و راه و روش زندگی‌اش شد.
مارلو سعی می‌کند برایشان کاری دست‌و‌پا کند و در این راه موفق می‌شود.
بعد از مدتی و خوشحالی از موفقیتش برای راه‌اندازی کسب‌و‌کار کوچک برای بومیان، دعوت‌نامه‌ای از قبیلۀ «ابوری جینی» دریافت می‌کند.بومیان ابوری جینی می‌خواستند از او تشکر کنند ولی مراسم قدردانی طبق پیش‌بینی‌های مارلو (گم‌گشته) پیش نرفت و از مهمانی باشکوه به سفری سه‌ماهه و بدون امکانات تبدیل گشت.سفر او با بی‌میلی و نگرانی شروع شد ولی با یادگیری‌هایی عمیق از رابطۀ انسان با طبیعت و کهکشان به پایان رسید.
I was told the book was an autobiography so I started reading it that way.
Right away my sceptical mind determined it was fiction.
On the back in very fine print it does say fiction but the author wants you to believe that it is a real journey that she took.
With that out of the way I really did like the book.
There were chapters that I just skimmed because I didn't like the content right away and there were others that I really grabbed onto and was able to take some good from.
I read this years ago because my mother-in-law thought it was great. (Erp, sorry.)It is one of those heightened, unrealistic spiritual accounts of a walkabout where the author discovers the connectedness of all things, even the flies that (view spoiler)[lovingly clean her teeth OMG ten years later and that image won't leave my head (hide spoiler)].
What is also mentions, and that I believe may actually be closer to the true culture, is that they can find water nearly anywhere within the desert, can eat just about anything, and have been using natural remedies that are completely unique and unknown to the rest of the world to cure various health problems that keep them surviving and able-bodied to an incredibly old age.Eventually she finds out that she really is on her way to a meeting, of sorts.
Because the Aborigines have been used and abused by white people in so many ways over the centuries (slaughtered, enslaved, studied, and herded off their ancestral land), the outrage is understandable.
(Yes, Harper Collins lists the book as fiction, but Morgan does her best in her notes to the reader to undermine that designation.) Publishing and making money off these misconceptions would have been more forgiving if she had owned up, apologized, offered to make amends, and perhaps shared some of her royalties.
I’m sorry that Harper Collins continues to publish this bookFor those who have read this book and enjoyed the story and believed the message, it’s important, I think, to read other perspectives.
Fortunately, I read a library copy of this book and never parted with my hard-earned cash because it's the worst book in the history of books.
First, it's written at about the 3rd grade level.
The publisher (after first reaping a great deal of financial gain) was forced to re-classify it as fiction.
Her first publisher dumped her after discovering she was a con artist and her credentials were fabricated.
Finally, I strongly suggest this well-written and thoroughly referenced critique by Cath Ellis at https://marlomorgan.wordpress.com/hel....
This book is insulting on so many levels.
