https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55751.The_Last_Lion_2
The Last Lion 2: Winston Spencer Churchill Alone, 1932-40, another hit for William Maschester! I think nobody could have surmised better than Maschester who Winston Spencer Churchill was, as he begins the second volume of his The Last Lion trilogy: "...But now, fourteen years after the Armistice of 1918, the Weald (of Kent) is an idyll of peace, and the explorer on foot finds that it possesses camouflaged delights... There, among eighty sheltering acres of beech, oak, lime, and chestnut, stands
The Last Lion 2: Winston Spencer Churchill Alone, 1932-40, another hit for William Maschester!
I think nobody could have surmised better than Maschester who Winston Spencer Churchill was, as he begins the second volume of his The Last Lion trilogy:
The title of this installment, Alone, was specially pertinent: he was isolated in his own party, always waiting and believing now was his time.
In times of appeasement his protests against Hitler only isolated him more:
At this, of all times, it seems inconceivable that Baldwin would pick a weak man to supervise the defense of England.
But it made for a thoroughly engaging tale of his persistent efforts to wield influence to counter the unfortunate policy of appeasement that Britain and France took while Nazi Germany grew ever more powerful and aggressive.
However, his columns were syndicated in hundreds of newspapers throughout the world, and his speeches of warning as a Member of Parliament, ignored time and again, slowly gained allies when he was able to share details on the pitiful military readiness of the U.K. compared to Germany from his own network of contacts among insiders in the British government and in Europe.
A magnificent history, beautifully researched, well written ... a pleasure to read ... and lots of details I may get to use in the sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL
A brilliant, comprehensive account of Churchill's role in the crucial time frame when England and the world refused to listen to him. I'm reading parts of this as research for my draft of a sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL ... A Flood of EvilCurrently reading about the events that preceded Hitler's occupation of the Rhineland in 1936.MORE TO FOLLOW
The democracies of Europe, led by Great Britain’s Prime minister's Baldwin and Chamberlain allowed Hitler to walk away from the treaty of Versailles and to rebuild the German war machine.
According to Manchester, there was one consistent voice in Parliament warning anyone who would listen that Hitler was the greatest threat to peace in Europe and that allowing the German’s to re-arm would guarantee WWII: That man was Winston Spencer Churchill.
Manchester explains that Hitler's Germany was bracketed between France and England in the west and Czechoslovakia and Poland in the east and behind them stood a frowning Stalin who watched as German communists were shot or imprisoned.
What an awe-inspiring man, and what a tremendously ambitious biography. Succeeds beyond all expectation!
A must-read (after Volume One) for anyone interested in a thorough and powerful political biography of one of the world’s great statesmen, told in such detail that one cannot leave without a great deal of new insight.Manchester tries to work in a chronological fashion as he begins the book, alternating between Churchill in the Baldwin Cabinet against the fall of the Wiemar Republic.
While it can be quite detailed and even somewhat dense, the reader will surely take away a great deal from the experience and feel the advancing sense of doom with each part of the book.Without knowing the specifics of the third volume, the reader could presume that this tome presents the least ‘growth’ of Churchill as a person, but perhaps the greatest as a politician.
The book was hard to read as I found myself exasperated at a whole class of leaders, a whole nation, actually many nations, that could not see what Churchill could see.
Warned not to stand for Germany taking the Rhine,he was called crazy.
Warned they should not give in to Hitler on Czechoslovakia, he was called an embarrassment.
When he is finally named Prime Minister in the last pages of the book – after war had been declared and on the very day France came under attack – the book became very enjoyable.
Also learned more about the government of the UK.Can't wait to read the last volume.
It was only in March, 1939 after Nazi Germany snuffed out what remained of forlorn Czechoslovakia that the gaze of those in Parliament, the media (in those days newspapers and radio) and the British people turned towards him, realizing how prescient were his words over the years.
Possibly, as Anthony Eden said of Neville Chamberlain – “Chamberlain knew Hitler lied, he just didn’t think he would lie to him.” Churchill knew Hitler to be a liar with an enormous appetite.The only quibble I have is that at the time of the 1939 English and French guarantee to Poland’s territory – the author insists that Soviet Russia should have been brought into this alliance.
This was the most compelling biography I have ever read.
I am going to read the preceding work and finally the WWII years so that I have a better understanding of not just the United Kingdom's attitudes, but of the European view as well.
Naturally the United States plays a significantly smaller role in a biography of Winston Churchill than the UK does, but as an American I need to step back and learn from this perspective, it is quite a shock to view the war from this perspective.
Perseverance and redemption defined
Manchester makes it easy to follow the diplomatic strategies and decisions taken by various European powers and their politicians.
In his view the greatest errors were made by politicians who blindly adhered to the idea of keeping peace no matter the cost (Churchill on the other hand saw the threat and risk that this policy held, and his unheeded warnings and fears would eventually be proven accurate).
Many of Britain and France's most powerful politicians would continue blindly clinging to their appeasement policy in spite of event after event that clearly contradicted their stance.
Utterly brilliant.
A mesmerizing read from cover to cover.
This volume, tragically, paints a horrible picture of the British policy of appeasement, which dominated the cabinet, the media, and other stakeholders, well before it was infamously embodied at Munich.
Looking back now, knowing the pure evil designs and outcomes of Herr Hitler and his regime, it's shocking to see how willing the British government was to let him do his thing, often simply out of fear of offending Hitler.
In that regard, reading this volume was almost like watching a train wreck.
Looking forward to volume three...after a short break.
It was very difficult to read how Britain repeatedly appeased Hitler. Churchill alone spoke out over the prewar years warning Britain that Hitler was a serious threat. But Winston was ridiculed.
Loved, loved, loved this book! Churchill was a unique and complicated man but a man for his time. Definitely read this!
Churchill is effectively in exile from Parliament, but is the only Brit who understands Hitler and writes / speaks on the dangers of Germany as they rearm and run the Treaty of Versailles through the shredder.
Churchill certainly had his flaws as a politician, but Volume I allows the reader of Volume II to understand why Churchill is the only man capable of leading the allies through WWII.I loved this book, all the way up to the last pages as Churchill becomes Prime Minister, and I can't wait for the main event (Volume III).
Here Churchill the outsider, takes on the mantle and exposes Hitler and the Nazis for what they were, much to the chagrin of the appeasing government in power at that time in England.
During this decade Churchill had to support his family by writing, he published the History of the English Speaking People's, during this time and wrote for magazines and newspapers.
Manchester's narrative along with the fact that Churchill is such an incredible personage make for a excellent book.
One of the best overviews of the run up to WWII. Amazing book about Churchill.
World War II became not so much a result of the need to revenge insults as a resetting of the state of hostilities left unfinished in 1918 that the Nazis were only too happy to commit their country on.The subtitle "Alone" describes the position Winston Churchill was in during the 1930's, during which he was one of the few public figures who didn't subscribe to the corrosive groupthink guiding the British diplomatic direction.
The two greatest victorious European powers of World War I, Great Britain and France, had established punitive conditions at Versailles which effectively would keep Germany bound with rules against re-armament so that peace in Europe would be maintained.
This volume covers the quietest period of Churchill's life.
He is on the outside: out of Parliament, out of favor, out of work, out of funds.
New British governments were unaware of Winston's access, but he kept a pulse on every aspect of their future enemy's strength.
Churchill painted, built brick cottages, and wrote books.
And continued his unceasing warnings that lost him popularity and favor.
The irony of Winston's position is that those years of cicada-screeching made him the one all Britain turned to when his warnings came to fruition.
This is the type of book that goes on forever, and you wish it were longer.
(Fortunately, the series has two other equally-long books.) It's just a wonderfully-rendered, magisterial look at Winston Churchill and the events of the 1930s: Churchill was remarkably accurate about...
I feel like I need to read a Neville Chamberlain apologetic after this, because Chamberlain comes out of this with the blood of millions dead on his hands, and I'm curious if that is the consensus view.If you have any interest in the lead-up to the Second World War, and a couple of months to spare, this book is absolutely essential reading.
With “hawkish” Churchill without a war and out of power, I didn’t think it was possible for this book to be better than the first. However, I loved reading more about Winston the man and the build up of the Third Reich. Winston’s foresight is vindicated but the task ahead is beyond daunting. Looking forward to the next.
Captivating, and compelling Churchill was quite a man. He stood by his word and held on to the truth no matter the odds. This book will help further paint him as a man who held to his conviction. Though he seems to be sharp and not the most pleasant to be around he got the job done and was unmoveable!
Interesting man - got what he wanted by hood or by crook
Part One: begins with the history and details of number 10 Downing Street, the famous PM address and Great Britain of 1932 losing her eminence as a world power.Primarily it covers Hitler's rise to power and the employing of his Big Lie as described in Meine Kampf, fooling the world into believing he was peace-loving and reasonable as he clandestinely built his war machine.
The first 34 pages -- "The Lion Caged" -- describes a typical day in the life of 60+ year old Churchill, and are unstoppable.
Reading this day in the life account, you simply can't put the book down.
Over 600 pages and 2 Governments, we learn of the many opportunities England (and France) had to stop Hitler's rise, and how repeatedly the British Government appeased, conceded, and in some cases, colluded to avoid any confrontation with Nazi Germany.
All in all, it's an amazing tour through the accomplishments, methods, techniques, speeches, views, and mistakes of Churchill during the years leading up to the Second World War. Sublime!
More than just a volume of his biography of Churchill, this work describes the evolution of British foreign policy from Hitler's seizure of power through the catastrophic first year of the second world war.
The resurrection of Churchill's political career following his years as a lone, courageous dissenter is but one side of the story that Manchester tells.
Manchester is ruthless in his assessments of the British leaders who left Europe at the mercy of the Nazi evil, and led their own nation to edge of the abyss.A masterpiece of the art of biography, this book is also an enthralling tale of the tragedy of European international politics in the 1930s.
Had it not been for Churchill, it probably would not have survived.As Adolph Hitler starts to slowly build up Germany’s military, Neville Chamberlin and his cronies simply look the other way.
Fortunately, since we know the outcome (which will come in volume 3), it’s a bit easier to read through this sad time in history, yet we still feel incredibly daunted by what Churchill, and the entire country, must have felt at the time.Throughout this book, there are small detours away from politics, and we do read a bit about the man himself.
The second half slows down to a day-by-day and sometimes hour-by-hour account of Churchill's rise to power over the final, crucial eighteen months.
Otherwise, this is filler between the excellent first volume and what I hope to be the magisterial concluding entry in the trilogy.
Like Volume 1, I was disappointed in how little we learn about Churchill's family life, religious beliefs, or personal reflections.
Perhaps Churchill wasn't introspective or left few records of his inner thoughts; if he did, this book contains none of them.
This is an excellent record of his public life, nothing more.
I listened to this on audiobook and while it took a long time to get through it also allowed me a lot of time to think about what I was hearing.
What struck me most was that if WWII had not happened Winston Churchill would be thought of as a minor historical figure who degenerated into crackpot-ness in his later years.The persistence and doggedness that characterized this time in his life is absolutely amazing.
He was amazing, but you probably didn't want him as a close personal associate.
I am looking forward to listening to the next part.
