https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431321.And_the_Sea_Will_Tell
Vincent Bugliosi is the best and bravest defense lawyer who ever lived. You know how I know? He told me in this book.Not a bad account of a crime and the trial of the woman accused, but please, Vinnie, get over yourself already.
This was probably one of the most interesting stories I've ever read... until you get to the actual trial. Like Helter Skelter, Bugliosi's egotistical style of writing is hard to get past but it was cool to read this after Helter Skelter because in this trial he was a defense lawyer. The first half is unbelievable and shocking. The second half is a snore. Great mystery with an ending that leaves you VERY unsatisfied. Beware.
he pieces together a conjecture of what happened...don't expect this solved 2) there were too many descriptions of the case and trial that seemed self serving to an arrogance of what a "great" lawyer Bugliosi was 3) I was left with a lingering sense that Bugliosi a)outright concealed the truth, b)skewed the truth, or c) was a fool..
I don't think his motives for taking on the case were as altruistic as he presented.
Good points of the book: it was very interesting, behind the scenes life of a case and trail were interesting, book has a great sense of an eerie atmosphere.
It's about the Palmyra murder case, which I'm extremely interested in, and it was written by Vincent Bugliosi, who became one of my all-time favourite writers after I read Helter Skelter, which was brilliant.Sadly, this book is not brilliant.The first part was really interesting, as it starts before Mac and Mutt Graham and Buck and Jennifer head to the supposedly deserted island.
I found the details of their lives on the island fascinating.Unfortunately, the second (and longest) part of the book is all about the trial, and seems mostly to consist of Bugliosi bragging about what a great lawyer he is and taking us behind the scenes of his process.
Every bit the equal of Bugliosi's "Helter Skelter," this book is a comprehensive ripper of a true-crime yarn that feels structured like an Agatha Christie tale.
The man is found guilty of murder nearly a decade later, after the bones belonging to one of the missing turn up.
And put our wits against those of Bugliosi, who is one of the sharpest legal minds in American crime.
No, his prejudices are there — but fairly and honestly rendered — and that's what ultimately keeps the reader in the game amidst an intimidatingly high stack of facts and suppositions.
This book is not just a true story, but it is comprised of actual journal entries. If you like crime drama, this book is amazing. It is split into two parts, first part is journal entries, the second part is ths story of the trial.This book is definitely one of my all time favorites.*heads up-language and adult themes.
Riveting Intense, Heart Pounding, Tragic, Haunting, Mesmerizing & Creepy! A Chilling Read! I Loved It!
3 days later we saw the woman's picture on the front page of the Honolulu newspaper; she and her boyfriend had been arrested for stealing the yacht from a remote island in the South Pacific about a thousand miles away from Hawaii!After Vincent Bugliosi left the L.A. DA's office he went into private practice.
One of his cases was the defense of Stephanie Stearns who along with her boyfriend, Buck Duane Walker, was accused of murdering Mac and Muff Graham on a remote atoll in the Pacific called Palmyra.
(As an aside, I don't believe that he actually said half the things he said to the judge in this case, and I think he was a bit deluded about his client's character.) In short, in my opinion, I found Vince Bugliosi to be one of the most self-serving, pompous, biased, annoying, and self-aggrandizing characters, let alone authors, I have ever seen.
In fact, I bought Helter Skelter at the same time I bought this book to read, but I don't want to put myself through another Vince Bugliosi self-worship session, so I think Helter Skelter is going to Half Price Books at my earliest convenience along with this book.
Absolutely riveting true legal drama!
But be warned, unless you're excited by the courtroom proceedings and the chess play that happens between defence and prosecution, you might find most of the book tedious and slow.
True, Mr. Bugliosi can be a little full of himself, but he built an incredible defence case, and managed to hit almost any curveball flying in his direction.
(view spoiler)[Do I subscribe to the opinion that Jennifer is innocent?
Perhaps she got away with murder, or perhaps she's simply a sociopath, but I had absolutely no reason for cheering for her.
(hide spoiler)]
Probably the worst book I've ever read.
So so soooo tedious, repetitive and so long winded- about 600 pages too long.
Has the potential to be a great story (couple murdered on a deserted island) but it was just so badly conveyed and did nothing for me whatsoever.
Admittedly I did skip about 200 pages in the middle to avoid the risk of my own suicide and went straight to the verdict of the trail- which btw was NOT GUILTY- yawn.
Given that it was written by the defence lawyer he's hardly gonna do 700 pages on a trial that he lost.
Not to mention it was suggested by his long suffering co counsel, who is clearly the voice of reason in the duo and often has to work behind Bugliosi's back.That said, it's hard to imagine a truly effective defense attorney in particular with a different personality.
For example, after her brilliant hardworking attorney has just given the performance of a life time and won her her freedom, she spends the celebratory dinner afterwards criticizing such minutia as the color of his tie and how his hair is combed,Personally, I doubt very much that she's completely innocent.
Muff's feelings about the trip (a deep sense of foreboding) only drive home the point that many true crime books do, that people should in general trust their instincts.
There was a book I read a long time ago, The Lord of the Flies, about a group of young British boys from affluent families who survived a plane crash in an isolated island.
I told myself that was fiction, and now I read this book based on a true crime.Once I started reading the book, there was no way I'm going to put it down.
Then there is an opportunistic lawyer who also profited, indirectly, from their crime.
I don't think OJ ever read this book, but his lawyers certainly did.
Suggest you read the book.
Okay I don't think this counts as a "spoiler" so I am just going to say it, this man can get a little long winded in places.
It is over all a good book but some of it reads like some of Stephen King's works (I am a big fan of King's) there are places where I thought okay you can cut to the chase already my sweet Lord.
It's a great read, just like other books push through the long winded, boring parts and you have a great read.
I picked this up because I loved Helter Skelter and wanted to read another Vincent Bugliosi book -- and this one is even better.
I was totally pulled into the world of Jennifer, a hippy who was accused of murdering a couple on a remote Hawaiian island, and stealing their boat.
As the story unfolds, you wonder how Jennifer could possibly be innocent.
He waits until the end to totally hit you over the head with a theory that proves Jennifer's innocence.
I read this book once a year -- I can't get enough.
This was a Tragedy but Bugliosi through his narrative and legal drama made it an interesting piece..... 4star
I really liked the first third of this book but the last two thirds was drawn out and I found Vincent/lawyer/author doesn't ever hesitate to tell us how great he is!!
As difficult as it may be for those who have only read this book and not the two I mentioned earlier to belief, Bugliosi is actually a very good, intelligent attorney, and an excellent investigator.
He'd do everything else he'd set out to do in his career and there were no challenges left; why not try something new and different?But of course he couldn't put that in the book, so he went back and white washed his motives later, even knowing it would make him look willfully blind or inept at reading character.
My son snagged this from the family lake cottage; it was a discard from the local library which my sister had picked up.
I was sucked in immediately by the mystery in Book One, "The Crime." However, Book Two, "Justice," began about a third of the way in, and it was hard going from then on.
If you are a fan of court procedurals, or want to be a trial lawyer, you may find this book fascinating, but if you're a layperson like me, you'll start flipping pages.
Obviously, I was interested enough to want to learn the outcome of the murder trial, but 574 pages is a lot of flipping.
A yuppie couple takes there yacht to a remote south pacific island. They encounter a hippie couple from hell. Aren't they all? Murder happens. The best part it is a true story. Even better Diedre Hall and Rachel Ward stared in the amazing TV Miniseries in the mid 90's.
The first 150 pages of this book are amazing. The long court battle...no so much. I've also admired Bugliosi since reading Helter Skelter. He writes great crime.
Incredible read. Couldn't put it down.
I've read this one before. Bone chilling. Can't put down true story of murder on the high seas.
Vincent Bugliosi, who achieved his initial fame as the prosecutor of Charles Manson and his followers, treats the reader to an in-depth examination of the circumstances of the crime, Bugliosi's office investigation into the details and the subsequent trial.This is true-crime written in a factual and engaging manner without hyperbole or embellishment.
I became a fan of Bugliosi when I read "Helter Skelter," his account of the Manson trial, many years ago.
I appreciate the insights he shares as someone intimately familiar with the facts and details of the issues at hand.
I didn’t finish it (a very hard thing for me to do). The first section was great; I just wish it wrapped up in 50 pages after that. Instead, it went into the trial and had way too much information & legal jargon for me. I felt like I was in class.
I don't think I've ever read a 700+ page book this quickly.
Perhaps not a good choice for a reader who is looking for a "casual" true crime story, "And the Sea Will Tell" exhibits all of Bugliosi's trademark common sense, ethical decision-making, and exhaustive preparation and investigation at length.
It's frustrating to either condemn or exonerate a defendant or suspect without "direct evidence," but in cases where "circumstantial evidence" is all that's available, as in this one, Bugliosi is a lawyer I would definitely want on my side.
I haven’t been able to get this book out of my mind.
I first read it several years ago, and enjoyed re-reading it again this year.
The first half of this book is beautifully descriptive, and suspenseful, and fascinating.
The 2nd half of the book is a highly detailed true crime trial, which could prove tedious to some readers, as I’ve seen in the reviews.
For me personally, I enjoy reading criminal law cases, so this was also fascinating.
There are not many true crime stories/books that have stayed with me for many years (In Cold Blood and Fatal Vision), but this one hooked me.
Not surprisingly, visitors to the island described the relationship between the two couples as tense.Several months later, Mac Graham stopped responding to his ham-radio contact in Hawai'i, and Walker and Jenkins/Stearns reappeared in an Oahu small boat harbor with the Grahams' boat, which they had renamed and given a hasty new paint job.
(Some people speculated Mac Graham may have killed his wife and then escaped to lead an idyllic existence wandering about the South Seas, but this theory did not fit the facts.
The actions of Walker and Jenkins/Stearns after they returned to Hawai'i - re-naming the boat, painting it new colors, failing to report the Grahams' disappearance, and running from the authorities when they were identified at the harbor - ooze guilt.
I just finished the thrilling 'experience' of Truman Capote's "In Cold Blood" and now realize that "And The Seat Will Tell", and many other true crime books I've read, owe their very existence to Capote's masterpiece. Not only did I feel that Bugliosi was unable to 'prove' his case within "And the Sea Will Tell', but it all simply plays out as Capote's invented blueprint for this genre.
I'm 32% done with And the Sea Will Tell: Loved the first 22% of the book but it seems all the rest is going to be trial and talk about how good the author is?
Darn Here I thought I was finally reading a good true crime book again.
I do not mind reading how trials went because it can be really interesting and I've tried here as well, but after 45% of him telling us how smart he is and how good he did I say no more!!It is obvious he managed to get Jennifer Jenkins aka Stephanie Stearns free.
