https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/684709.Adventures_of_the_Little_Wooden_Horse
Ich bekam sicher rote Backen vor Aufregung beim Zuhören.Vorleserin war meine verhasste Lehrerin, ein älteres Fräulein,und jeden Samstagmorgen in der letzten Stunde fand das Ritual statt.
Das war anno 1957.
Ich, der Erstklässler, der nach dem Vorlesen voll glühenden Erzählwillens nach Hause eilte und am Mittagstisch übersprudelnd die Abenteuer des Rössleins weitergab, vor meinen Eltern und meiner Schwester,bis dann der Vater beim zweiten oder dritten Mal dazwischenfuhr und lachte: Du sagst immer und dann und dann und dann!¨Das war wie ein Kanonenschuss vor meinen Kopf.Ich verstummte und erzählte nie wieder meine Abenteuer die ich mit dem Rösslein miterlebt hatte.So ein blöder Vater!
Dennoch Das Rösslein Hü war nebst den Grimm's Märchen mein erster Kontakt mit Literatur und einer der unvergesslichsten im Guten wie im Schlechten.
I loved this.
I haven't read about the Little Wooden Horse in years, and I was so excited to pick him up again!
He's so sweet, and agreeable, and determined, and hardworking, and, and and...I think I'm in heart.I recommend these books for EVERYONE.
Seriously.
Read it to your little kids.
Give it to that teenager you know that HATES reading.
Give it to that 40 year old that you know LOVES reading.
And buy it.
And read it to your kids.
Get your ancient copy rebound, so it will last forever and ever and ever...
Those stars are from my seven-year-old self. I lived in Germany that year and when we visited London during a school vacation (we had relatives there --- I still do), we always went to Foyle's where my parents stocked up on Puffins. I keep trying to find the edition I had (yellow cover), but boy did I love this book. I'm afraid to read it now, to be honest!
What a beautiful story for little children. I wish I had been able to read it as a child. But even as an adult, I find it compelling. Even I wanted to know how the story would go on and I am sure children will love the stories.
Like Black Beauty finding good owners and bad, the Horse meets tyrants and kindhearted humans, works himself to the (wooden) bone, sustains damage, is ill-used and repaired, and travels far and wide seeing the best and worst of mankind as he struggles to find his way home.It's simply told, which makes me feel that given a fresh jacket and typeface it will appeal to primary-aged readers still.
My copy of this still has my original surname inside. The pages are going brown round the edges and some are falling out, but this was a story I read several times to the children I was teaching back in 1975-1977. A wonderful fairy tale full of drama and emotion although I suspect that nowadays it might seem rather sad compared to more modern tales. However, one of my granddaughters loves Blyton's 'The Magic Faraway Tree' so I will buy a new copy of this classic for her to enjoy.
I read this many years ago and want to re-read it. I absolutely loved this book, it was my favourite.
This was a much loved book from my childhood and I was delighted when my husband bought it for me as a sentimental gift. Having just reread it as a woman in my 30s I was happy that it was as good as I remembered it to be. I would recommend it to anybody old and young alike. A thoroughly charming tale.
A adventurous horse who is abandoned by his creator's (a toymaker) wife. He stumbles into lots of mishaps and finds new friends along the way on his search to find his master again. It has a happy ending. A book that although I have read many times, I still find is fun to read again. It can be read over and over! One of my favorite children's books.
I was given this book as a child- I must have read it several times and cried too . I still have the same book and have read it to all my children over the years.It is such a lovely tale of determination,hardworking,courage and love. A book I will treasure. LOVE IT.
One of the first books I ever read on my own and it started my love of literature. Fantastic. Enough said.
I found this book riddled with unnecessary questions and there was nothing inspiring in the naff words. I think my child would cry in horror if I attempted to read her this damp squib. This author is no Hemingway. Not even close. The proses and the sentences are long-winded and difficult to digest. It is a big no for me to this book.
This was a great book, my boy loved it. The ending was very sweet
A charming old tale that is a childhood favourite of mine and has been very enjoyable to read to my little boy who loved it.
Habe ich als Kind vorgelesen bekommen und lese es jetzt meinem Sohn vor. Sehr empfehlenswert.
I got this in charity shop lived it such moving story
The little wooden horse is made out of wood by Uncle Peder, who sells wooden toys to children for a living.
Now, without any clothes to go on his thin layers (it was winter at the time), Uncle Peder got ill with a fever and he was nearly as poor as any man could be.When the old man fell asleep in a barn, the little wooden horse set out to earn a few more coins and come back in the morning.
Iwell, Children book is never been bored.The story itself is about an adventurous horse who is abondened by his own or his toymaker's wife.
Because he loved his master so much.This book made me want to gather my childhood toys again and love them again, because i feel like i had abandoned them for years.
Because i already grown up and move many times, even i already married, so many of my toys had given to my neighbourhood, or lost.This book remind me of Toy Story movies, when a toy never been played again, they feel sad and lonely :*
Old children’s stories tend to veer toward the sappy so I was very worried about reading this one. No worries. Williams never even ventured into that territory; instead, she created the character of the little wooden horse so real yet so gently brave and daringly courageous that I would put him up on my list of Favorite Book Characters. I must obtain a copy of this book for my library. A 1001 CBYMRBYGU.
This was a quaint book but very much of its time (1938). There is much related to servitude and best behaviour as a reward against slovenliness and mean-spiritedness. Each chapter sees the little wooden horse overcome some adversity through his strength, determination and humble character. As with many biblical stories, the horse can be seen to represent the prodigal son who returns home with wealth, assurity and an ability to support for those he loves.
หนังสือเดกทีซือมาเพราะชอบภาพประกอบโดยแท แตใชเวลาอานแคแปบเดียว ลัดคิวเลมในกองรออานทังหลายคิดวาถาอานตอนเดกๆจะตองสนุกมากแนๆ แตพอมาอานตอนนีแลว กลับเหนวาการผจญภัยของเจามาไมทำไมมันดูนาสงสาร นาหดหูไปหมดเชนนีโดนทำรายรางกาย โดนปลนเงินอยูตลอดเวลา หัวหลุดลอหลุด...ไมมีขอดีการโตเปนผูใหญทำใหเรามองโลกในแงรายมากขึนจริงดวย
หนังสือเด็กที่ซื้อมาเพราะชอบภาพประกอบโดยแท้ แต่ใช้เวลาอ่านแค่แป๊บเดียว ลัดคิวเล่มในกองรออ่านทั้งหลายคิดว่าถ้าอ่านตอนเด็กๆจะต้องสนุกมากแน่ๆ แต่พอมาอ่านตอนนี้แล้ว กลับเห็นว่าการผจญภัยของเจ้าม้าไม้ทำไมมันดูน่าสงสาร น่าหดหู้ไปหมดเช่นนี้โดนทำร้ายร่างกาย โดนปล้นเงินอยู่ตลอดเวลา หัวหลุดล้อหลุด...ไม่มีข้อดีการโตเป็นผู้ใหญ่ทำให้เรามองโลกในแง่ร้ายมากขึ้นจริงด้วย
One of my childhood favourites. Read it with children when they were 3 and 1. It was just on the edge of holding their attention and not being too scary (the little wooden horse has some adventures as the title indicates!). By the middle of the book they were gripped and wanting the next chapter. The end was very exciting for them.
3 1/2 stars. I kind of fell in love with this little wooden horse with such a big heart. I read this to my 5 year old daughter who loved all the adventures. Great read for the 5-8 year old crowd with a strong, determined, loyal lead character.
An action-packed read from the start! Another book I hadn't read since I was little, but just as good as I remember! The Little Wooden Horse is so determined, loyal and brave. The story all wraps up very quickly, but it was probably just as well, as I was exhausted by then after all his adventures!
Charming story about a life like wooden horse and the various adventures and mishaps on an unexpected journey. Some predictable plot lines, others surprising. Wonderful book to read aloud to kids 6-9.
This book is not only for children but for any age ! Adventures of Little Wooden Horse gave me similar nuance when i read The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint Exupery. I felt both little wooden horse and little prince were suffering and they both fight for happiness.
Read this every night to my 5 year old, she loved it. Sweet story, hard work pays off and be nice to others are key themes. Written in 1937 so a lot of irritating phrases like referring to a wife as the little wife...
Noah (6): It was brilliant! It was very exciting! It was a very happy ending! Beth (5): It was very good. I liked the happy ending! I like it when he got lots of treasure on the island.
Sweet little book. A good classroom read.
The first "chapter book" I ever read.
