https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282425.Boys_Over_Flowers
Original title: 花より男子 (Hana yori dango).Genre: Shoujo, Comedy, Drama, Romance, School Life.Volumes: 37.Chapters: 244.Status: completed.*Read all chapters of this manga.After a re-read for the whole manga, I can definitely say that this is one of my all time favorite manga! I even enjoyed re-reading it more than reading it for the first time, and I loved reading about these characters again and understood their insides and feelings a lot more. Synopsis: This manga is about "Makino Tsukushi" (Tsuk
I even enjoyed re-reading it more than reading it for the first time, and I loved reading about these characters again and understood their insides and feelings a lot more.
But Tsukushi is in love with Rui, who in turn has romantic feelings for his childhood friend Shizuka.This may sound cliche, but it is so entertaining and with this amount of volumes out, you really get sucked into the story and you become to care more and more for the characters, even the side ones.
Hana Yori dango, Season 1, 2: ★★★★★Season 1: THAT END though!Season 2: This season made me cry like a baby.The drama is quite honest to the manga.
2)The female lead is obsessed with a guy who doesn't like her back (and isn't even worth it) and for most of the story he is pretty cold to her.
It's just bad writing to go with the cliche of the traditional (and overdone) female character, that is average, somewhat ‘kind’, stupid to a fault, suposedly 'strong', and somehow has two or more people involved in a love triangle with her.6)All of the situations are extremely exagerated to a point where its simply ridiculous and that alone takes away from whatever humour it had in the first place.
I have just realized that while I have huge problems with YA books and their cliches, I don't mind YA manga.
It's only that I don't mind them, I actually enjoy them.
It must be because of the art.This is actually a reread.
The first time I started reading Hana Yori Dango was in college, and I don't remember finishing it.
So I'll just read it all over again until the end.If you liked Watt's Paper Princess, there's a strong chance you'll like this, too.
I don't see myself reading any.
*Spoiler alert* There were many things that I didn't like about this book.
The main character decides to stand up to the "F4," a clique of popular boys.
She is almost gang-raped by 3 of the 4 boys, until 1 of them steps in to save her.
She then develops a crush on this boy, who then informs her that if she "was going to be such a pest about it" he "wouldn't have intervened." Nice!
After he tells her this, she *still* likes him.The author also interjects a lot into the story, and her interruptions are annoying.
This book was horrible.
I really enjoyed the Japanese live action version of Hana Yori Dango, and this was a great start to the manga! Also Domyoji's pineapple hair is hysterical XD
Ya me sé esta historia de memoria, pero igual me sigue gustando. Los dibujos son feisimos pero espero que mejore a medida que vaya pasando los volúmenes.
First of all, I got addicted to anime and manga and all that big-eyed, purple-headed stuff when I was in seventh grade.
Every twelve-year olds practically love cheesy funny and romantic stuff, right?
Not my present 15-year old self.
Why I love this Hana Yori Dango stuff sooo much I don't know.
I love cheesy stuff) but mature enough to not be Cabot's since I can't even stand reading her books without blinding my eyes.I Loooove HANA YORI DANGO.
It might be cheesy and sooo clichy and whatsoever but obviously, my twelve-year old self is still lurking behind my veins.
Matsumoto Jun, look what you have done to me!I watched the first episode of the dorama months ago, when I was not familiar with Arashi (ergo, MatsuJun) I could not finish it.
Because I like MatsuJun. And he is pretty much known as "Doumyouji".So OK, I do not completely hate it.
Makino gets bullied over and over, but she is a fighter.
guys to gang-rape Makino?
Makino is so dumb to like him.
Ughhh, only for you MatsuJun. Because really, I don't like the characters, nor the plot, nor the art.1.5 stars (one for the bully theme; 0.5 for the rest)
Cuma baca sampai vol.3 ""( _ _)Aku suka karakter cewek yang kuat, tapi sayangnya tokoh ceweknya di s
There was something in the way all of the characters came together that I found irresistibly compelling about this series.
It did remind me a lot of Ouran while I was reading it and maybe that is why I liked it so much.
Tsukushi is an interesting protagonist, I loved when she started taking action and sticking up for herself.While I wasn’t overly fond of the artwork style I was able to get past it because I my love for the storyline.
This is an honest story with twists and turns, ups and downs, but then again that is real life.
I would really recommend watching the anime too!
I came here because of  METEOR GARDEN
Backstories to explain (unsuccessfully) male MC’s bad behavior7.
(I’m not saying that’s a bad thing, just pointing out the cliché)10.
Male MC’s family doesn’t want him dating a poor girl.
Female MC is threatened to stay out of male MC’s life.13.
Everyone who hates female MC in the beginning realizes their mistake, becomes her friend and helps her out in her bad times.14.
Hmmm, maybe Twilight is based on bad shoujo.Initially, although I hated the series, I thought of reading it till the end only to lecture the people who recommend the Korean drama to me.
Currently reading volume 24...and then it kind of went sideways.
Meh. Why does every guy have to fall for her?
The side stories are getting repetitive and annoying.
Still loving Tsukasa (when he's not hitting girls), but Makino is pretty annoying at times.
At least they seem to be on the same page now, sort of.
Hoping for forward movement in their relationship without all the extra.
1/22/5 - Starting volume 15.
Please, get rid of obtuse Makino.
I love Tsukasa, but he needs to control his tongue and that violent streak.
Currently reading volume 10.
Boys over Flowers is a Manga and I read the book up to 33 and still waiting for book# 34.
It is a Japanese story about a rich boy in Japan and a very poor girl.
That the point the conflicts starts, the boys mother get to know and make the girls and her family suffer so much.
Also the boy has a team call F4 and everyone in Japan is crazy for them and all for of them is really rich.
I’m waiting for the next book really badly and I just want to read it as quick as possible.
Endearing, slap-sticky, and a teeny bit tacky.
I don't care if these people are rich, selfish or spoiled, but I really doubt there is a school full of students who would literally all gang up against one girl and be all fucking psychotic jerks with no good moral conscience.
Well there is plenty of that in this story such as the typical bitchy girl character drugging Tsukushi, forcing a man to take a suggestive picture with her and exposing it to everyone at the high school all in an attempt to catch Tsukasa’s (main love interest) attention.
It's so weird how this is a love story and supposed to be a comedy but the bullying is extreme and there's implied anti-abortion/sex-shaming beliefs. I don't know. I still found it funny and Tsukushi's one of my all-time favorite female characters. I haven't read manga in almost a decade but I remembered why I liked it back then. I'm just confused as to why it turned into another story towards the end?
I actually have watched this drama ages ago but it left such an impact that I always wanted to read the manga.
Now I installed an app to read manga at easy days at work (don't tell my boss).
Anyway I try to read as soon as possible again because it is wonderful and I think the manga might even be better than the drama (which happens a lot of time when it comes to manga and anime/dramas).
As I'm adding the first volumes of mangas that I read, here is Hana Yori Dango or Boys over Flowers and I recommend it to anyone that would read such types of comics/manga and so on.
Es el tipo de historia de vida escolar que en Japón se repite en 2 de cada 3 de las que son dirigidas a mujeres (si no es que más).
Realmente llegas a dudar en ocasiones si la protagonista debió tomar una decisión distinta con respecto al galán.Al principio no tragaba a Domyouji (todavía googleo su nombre porque no puedo aprendérmelo), pero creo que es el personaje que más y mejor creció.
Me gustan los personajes fuertes.Como todas las historias extensas llega el punto en que se pone un poco floja y repetitiva, gajes del oficio.
anyways, it’ll be a trek no matter through which medium you go for the story (though i recommend the manga because it’s always better and the anime/ dramas usually change things).
it is long, but a lot happens so it’s worth it, and if you get into it it’ll feel a lot shorter than it actually is, and you’ll wonder where it all went when you’re close to the end.
every shoujo aficionado should in some way or another acquaint themselves with this story because it’s one of the good ones
"Tsukushi" means weed.
That's the personality of Tsukushi Makino, a middle class student in an expensive private school Eitoku Academy.
She's unlike those pampered plants that can only survive in green houses, like the Flowery Foursome (F4).
F4 are the richest and most powerful guys in the academy.
No one messes with them--until they met Tsukushi.I like how the mangaka became playful with layouts and scenes.
The art style shows the time when it was made, it's old school but pleasant (published in 90s).The Taiwanese tv drama Meteor Garden became a hit in the Philippines some years ago.
Busqué este manga al saber que una de mis series favoritas que recién acabo de terminar (Boys Over Flowers) era una adaptación. Me encuentro que es un manga de los 90' y rápidamente comencé a leerlo.No hay decepción, hay algunas partes que fueron modificadas en la serie pero la esencia es la misma. Lo disfruté y lo sentí muy corto. Definitivamente son de esas historias románticas tan absurdas que te encantan.También venía al final una pequeña historia (no sé si tenga continuación) y, debo de admitir, me pareció fantástica. Sencilla, "heartbreaking", tierna. Continuaré definitivamente, buscando avanzar en la historia.
THIS is my favorite manga of all time! Took me forever to read since there were so many books, but it is so worth it. Great manga, awesome characters, and I love watching the live action dramas. There are many versions. I loved the Korean version. And I am almost done with the Taiwanese version, which stayed closest to the manga story line, which I admire. I will soon start watching the Japanese version soon. Seriously, give the manga a chance. If you love shoujo, this is definitely for you!
Gelmiş geçmiş en iyi shoujo mangalardan biri olarak kabul edilen Hana Yori Dango, 90larda başlamış; bitene kadar geçen sürede karakter çizimleri bile değişmiştir (manga çizimlerindeki değişen trendler uyarınca). Fakir kız zengin erkek aşkının olabilecek en ağdalı versiyonudur (o kadar ki illallah dedirtir insana)ama yine de türünün en iyi örneklerinden.
Sometimes I have no clue why some manga is so popular! The one guy paying people to rape her was sick! Why would anyone even care if he starts to like her later on?The only redeeming factor is that the heroine has serious guts - which is sorely lacking in most shoujo manga!
Attempted rape, abuse and social ostracization, all popular themes within manga and sometimes it can work. If the characters, writing and art are strong enough.This doesn't have any of those components.Not my cup of tea.
Problems:1) ugly art2) dumb characters3) too much melodrama4) too long (as in the series)Its not really a happy story. Domyouji is not a great guy. Rui is a little too impassive. If you want a better version, watch the drama (the japanese live action one)
I know, this is a girl manga series filled with eye-rolling cliches and it has enough cheesiness to smuggle you to death, but the many volumes I had once read are still highly entertaining.
Quite unexpected trip, thought it was going to be a silly ride, instead it surprise me with the coming of age set up in a realistic way. Characters that are obssesive, shy, naive like any of us.
Ugh the art in this is so 1990's that I couldn't get past it. Won't be reading the rest of the series.
