https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275228.Memories_Of_Anne_Frank
This book gives us insights into Anne's life before and after her famous diary.
Despite the title, this is more a story of Anne's closest friend, Hannah.
Anne, of course, ultimately died at the hands of the Nazis, but for two years, she led a quiet life in hiding.
Hannah, on the other hand, was out in the world experiencing and witnessing unGodly acts every day.The book is written in a simple, straightforward style, which I felt was very effective.
Although extremely difficult subject matter, it is a story that should be known by all and never forgotten in hopes that someday stories such as Hannah's and Anne's will be found only in history books.
Bijzonder om te lezen! Ik wil Het Achterhuis dolgraag opnieuw lezen nu ik een stuk ouder ben en dit boek heeft mij daarvoor zeker een extra duwtje in de rug gegeven!
Hannah Goslar, a friend of Anne Frank's and a survivor of the Holocaust, tells her story here in tandem with Alison Leslie Gold.
Because I wanted the book to sound like Hannah, sometimes the style is a little cryptic.' A Childhood Friend of Anne Frank is, says its blurb, 'a moving testimony to a girl who survived a terrible ordeal and another who did not.'This particular Holocaust memoir is very much aimed at younger readers; it presumes that one knows very little about the Holocaust in its introduction, or of Anne and her diary.
I bought this because I am read the diary of Anne Frank and the person who is talking about the memories is named Hannah.
Hannah had assumed that Anne had escaped to Switzerland with her family and did not know they were actually in hiding.
but most of the book talks of her own struggles during the Holocaust.
I found after i read this book it is actually intended for youth readers.
I would only say that if you wanted to read this book there is not really too much about Anne.
I loved to read from Hannah's interesting point of view, but I rather read other books about just Anne Frank.
Es un libro cortito, fácil de leer en unas horas, las memorias de Hanna Goslar, quien fue amiga de la infancia de Anne Frank.
Hemos leido el Diario de Anne, sobre su vida hasta el arresto, sobre sus sueños, pero qué sucedió con lso amigos?
¿Qué sucedió tras su arresto?
Poco se sabe desde que se separara de su padre en Westerbork.
Hannah tuvo ocasión de hablar con ella en la oscuridad de la noche, en Bergen Belsen, al otro lado de las alambradas.
Y por supuesto, sabemos qué fue de Hanneli y su familia durante la guerra y hasta la rendición de los alemanes.
This book is sad - very sad, as are all Holocaust stories, but I'm glad I read it, and I think my students will be interested in reading it.
I am always saddened by Man's inhumanity to Man when I read accounts of the Holocaust because I don't understand how people could treat other people so horribly.
I think of the slave trade, Rwanda, American Indians, and all the other acts where people have been treated worse than animals, and I am saddened that many people still do not get the importance of kindness.
This book is about the friendship between Anne Frank and Hannah.Hannah wrote a diary about the memories she have with Anne.She's upset how Anne died, she was too young to die, if it wasn't the holocausts nothing would happen.Hannah would never forget how Anne was such a great friend and how she taught her many things.That's why she decided to write a diary full of the memories between Anne and her that will cherish with her forever.I can connect to a text to world connection because many people had once lost someone from their life,but to remember the memories with them they would write the memories in their diaries to cherish it just like Hannah.I rate this book five stars because this book was so compelling and all at once, so sad, especially the part where it states that Hannah was almost grownup and Anne-forever-would remain a girl.
This book is a very moving insight into the life of one of Anne Franks closest friends. I became moved with emotion on most pages with the descriptions of camp-life, deportation and the will to live. It is a book I will cherish forever, and one that I will share with future generations so that the Holocaust will never happen again.
Het levensverhaal van de Amsterdamse vriendin van Anne Frank.
Really sad, of course. Wow my reviews are really worthless!
Hannah was neighbor and close friends with Anne Frank.
One day she remembers going back to Netherlands and going to this lady’s house and asking if she knew any news of Anne.
Good book to me it was super sad because the more you read the more you realise that Anne ment a lot to Hannah.
Anne is a big part to history and reading this book makes you sad because a girl full of life in weeks was dead.
All in all this book was really good and would recommend to all of my friends and would read again.
Hannah and another close friend of Anne's went to pick her up the day that the Franks went into hiding, and both were dismayed to find the entire Frank family gone.
It was at Bergen-Belsen that she saw Anne again, and learned that the Franks had never gone to Switzerland, but had been hiding in Amsterdam the entire time.
Hannah is very sick when she is freed from the Bergen-Belsen and spends many weeks in a hospital and then both her and her little sister are transferred to a place in Switzerland(where she can receive more care and Gabi will have someone to care for her while she is recovering) all made possible with the help and financial assistance of Otto Frank, her dear friend's father.
The book is really about Anne Frank's friend Hannah.
Hannah shares some memories that included Anne but it wasn't really about her.
I read the Diary of Anne Frank many years ago and can't remember much detail.
It would be interesting to read what she wrote about Hanneli (Hannah) after reading this book.
I was amazed that Hannah was able to talk to Anne not long before she died when they are both at the same camp though separated by a wall.
It is a fast read and also includes some pictures that were interesting.
I thought I'd already added Anne Frank, mijn beste vriendin to my profile, but suddenly noticed it was missing from my "favourites" page.
Favourite seems like a wrong word to describe this book, given the events it details, but I don't think any book moved or influenced me the way this book did (not even HP).
It was one of the classroom books in the "bovenbouw", and I think I read it at least 8 times in those 3 years.
I'd recommend this book to anyone with an interest in WWII and/or Anne Frank.
After finishing the Nonfiction book Memories of Anne Frank by Alison Leslie Gold I can personally say it’s one of my favorite books.
Memories of Anne Frank is set in Amsterdam, Netherlands during World War 2.
We experience the book through Hannah Goslar’s perspective.
Throughout the book we are taken along Hannah’s and Anne’s Journey of hiding, running, and what life was like in a concentration camp.
The chapters in the book have a realistic feeling to it because it is like reading straight from Hannah’s and Anne’s diary.
For anyone who is fascinated by History this book will not disappoint.
I enjoyed reading this book.
I've read a lot about Anne Frank, so I was pleased when this turned out to be more about her best friend Hannah.
This book fills in the holes of what happened to Anne after she got found.
It's a very emotional read and I enjoyed that it included pictures for readers to get visuals of the girls.
It gives great detail about Hannah's life transferring between camps and losing everything and everyone that she loved.
The details are enough to get the idea of what life was like but not so detailed that only adults can read this.
Although rather short, this book provides a first-hand account of life as Jewish child in occupied Europe, with all the horror and loss that goes with it.
The writing-style reflects the fact that this book derives from interviews with Hanneli, and somehow this allows the events she discusses to seem much more bluntly realistic.
Rating four stars instead of five because I would have appreciated a tad more detail at times; it would have been interesting to hear some more detail of Hannah's life in Amsterdam, what brought her parents here from Germany, and a little more about her and her sisters' lives post-1945.
I learned more reading this memoir of Hannah Goslar than I did in any history class.
These young adult books bring history to life while giving an overall view of what was going on in the world at the time.
One day Anne and Hannah were like any other little girls.
Laughing, having sleep overs and birthday parties.
Then one day Anne was gone.
Even Hannah and her family were called to board the cattle car like trains to be taken away.
This is a book of perseverance and memory that was captured just in time.

Waargebeurde verhalen vind ik vaak erg indrukwekkend en vooral als ze over de tweede wereldoorlog gaan. dit is het verhaal van Hannah die een hele goede vriendin was van Anna Frank. ze vertelt over hun vriendschap maar ook over haar leven in de tweede wereldoorlog. erg indrukwekkend om te lezen. heb het boek ook in een keer uitgelezen kon hem niet weg leggen.
Amazing photos in this book of Anne Frank and her family and friends prior to Adolph Hitler's rule. This talks about before and after the Holocaust. It is a great read and a "cannot put down" type of book. Very sad, but gives us insight into lives we otherwise would know nothing about if Alison had perished in the Holocaust like so many of her family and friends.
I think it’s important to keep remembering these horrors. It makes you realize that we are very fortunate to live how we live right now.It’s obviously a book intended for children, but I believe when it’s important stories like this one, everyone can and should read it (if they can handle it).
I think that this book would be good to pair with Anne Frank’s diary. This book is from her friends point of view and allows the reader to really relate to Anne Frank and see her as just another girl.
Anne Frank is such an inspirational figure!
A beautiful look at Anne Frank by someone who knew her well. It's so sad that her life was cut so short.
I was a good choice for the required biography and I liked way more than I expected.
Wonderful book, but sad. Tells the story of Anne Frank's friend and what happened to their little group of friends during the war.
AndYou are going to the gym now
This book is about a family that is living in WWII. Anne Frank vanished in thin air, nobody knows where she went. Mrs. Goslar, Hannah Goslar’s mom dies during pregnancy and it’s up to her to raise her baby sister Gabi. They are sent off to a camp to work and the list that Hannah, her dad, and her sister luckily weren’t on. Hannah and her family got sent off to an exchange camp instead of being killed because is they were on the first list they would’ve been killed. This book would be good for pe
This book is about a family that is living in WWII.
They are sent off to a camp to work and the list that Hannah, her dad, and her sister luckily weren’t on.
Hannah and her family got sent off to an exchange camp instead of being killed because is they were on the first list they would’ve been killed.
This book would be good for people who like reading about wars and like learning about religion and how people were treated because of their religion.
I don’t think this book would be good for people who don’t like violence or equality.
