https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/868267.The_Age_of_Reason_Begins

So continues my slow Odyssey through European history, with Durant as my leisurely guide.Durant originally planned a single, massive volume, to be entitled The Age of Reason, that would have taken the reader from the end of his volume on the Reformation (around 1560) all the way to the French Revolution.
He simply had no taste for war; he lacked that journalistic knack for making readers care about the winner of a race, even if we don’t know who’s running or what’s the prize.As usual, when Durant gets the political history out of the way and begins on cultural history, the quality improves markedly.
Hyper-Active Period in History: 1560-1650 The Age of Reason Begins I was intrigued by the historical activity in the period of 1560-1650, at the beginning of "The Age of Reason," in this, the 7th volume of Will and Ariel Durant's unsurpassed effort to write the history of the world's civilization, an 11-volume set collectively called  The Story of Civilization . They published the first volume Our Oriental Heritage in 1935, and their last volume The Age of Napoleon in 1975, thus covering history
I was intrigued by the historical activity in the period of 1560-1650, at the beginning of "The Age of Reason," in this, the 7th volume of Will and Ariel Durant's unsurpassed effort to write the history of the world's civilization, an 11-volume set collectively called 
Time on Earth is far too short {{sigh}}."The Age of Reason" covers the history of Europe and the Near East from around 1560 until about 1650.
Reading even one volume of the eleven is a significant investment of time.
I plan to read Volume 9 (The Age of Voltaire (generally 1710-1760), 898 pp.), provided, however, life and time permit.
It will beautifully flesh out your historical knowledge base and it's a real page turner.It will feel as if you sat beside the fire with an endlessly wise and funny storyteller on many successive nights so that he could tell you the history of the world.here's a quote from an article by Will Durant that explains his ideas about history in his own words:"History” said Henry Ford, “is bunk.” As one who has written history for twenty-five years, and studied it for forty-five, I should largely agree with the great engineer who put half the world on wheels.
عالی بود آشنایی با مونتنی بورونو و در نهایت دکارت

Just one favorite from this stellar series, "The Story of Civilization" by the brilliant and erudite Will Durant and his equally brilliant wife Ariel, which is still one of the best series on world history ever written, despite it's age.
It's rare to read historical works from this time period that do not overwhelmingly evidence the heavy hand of personal and political prejudices that were widely held in that day and age.
here's a quote from an article by Will Durant that explains his ideas about history in his own words: "History” said Henry Ford, “is bunk.” As one who has written history for twenty-five years, and studied it for forty-five, I should largely agree with the great engineer who put half the world on wheels.
Typically non fiction took me far longer to read than fiction and oddly enough, the first section on Elizabeth I's reign was the hardest going and it's what I'm most familiar with!
The one upside of digital books is that one day I hope they embed histories in names.
(It's more fun to read an alternative history when you know what happened historically.
This is the 7th volume in their story of civilization.The Durants covered the days of Queen Elizabeth I through Charles II in England, Richlieu in France and the absolute mess the German provinces were in.
Will and Ariel Durant's relationship was, by modern standards, illegal and immoral. He was her principal at the Ferrer Modern School, marrying her when she was fourteen, he about twenty-seven. Together they produced what amounts to the most substantial history of the world available to the general public in English, The Story of Civilization, in eleven volumes (the last being in historiography).Like all volumes in the series, except the first, Our Oriental Heritage, this constitutes an excellent introduction to the period.
This series provides the opportunity for a reader to look over Will Durant's shoulder as he journeys through history and writes the intellectual adventure of a lifetime.
Volume seven of the eleven volume 'Story of Civilisation' by Will and Ariel Durant. The volume focuses on the age of reason...
Obtaining from Italy such significant cultural developments as the salon, violin, chateau, ballet, opera and syphilis, the France of this age produced two major philosophers in Montaigne and Descartes, the one so lacking in organization of his ideas that his works are simply titled 'Essays' while the other made a sincere attempt to develop an entire philosophical system based on the primacy of individual thought but (quite maddeningly!) accepting the existence of an omniscient and beneficent deity.
Unlike all the previous books of this series, each of which I have awarded a perfect 5-star rating, this one was different.
From the continuation of the religious wars and persecutions and calumnies described so vividly in the previous volumes, to the dawn of our current rational (I laugh as I write that, but compared to the eras long since past) age, Will Durant is himself the closest thing to a master of history I have ever encountered.
There is a lot about my faith, Unitarianism, in this book.
Fitting that there is more about Unitarianism in the Age of Reason Begins than in the Age of Faith.
Will Durant talks about how Unitarianism is rooting in reason and humanism.
He also talked a lot about how Unitarians were burned at the stake by Catholics, Protestants, Lutherans, Calvinists, Anglicans and others.
There was a great Unitarian university in Poland: destroyed and the scholars killed or scattered.
The last person officially burned at the stake in England was a Unitarian.
Also, as with all the Durant books, the language is artful and beautiful.
This is one of the most interesting books of history I've read.
It covers a period between 1558 and 1648, a time of real and important change in how people saw the world.
To a modern reader, much of the sixteenth and seventeenth century bickering about theological minutia may seem ridiculous to us, but to them, those alive at the time, these things were important.
This books helps one understand why.
This is history, after all.
These are the people who helped drag civilization out of the Dark Ages to make the modern world modern.
This was a horrible time--there were so many wars and persecutions and so much violence--it reminds me of the daily news now out of the middle East.
I'm surprised that anyone survived--but at the same time this was the era of Shakespeare, Bacon, Descartes, el Greco, Rembrandt, Galileo, Cervantes,--and the list goes on and on.
Will Durant is so delighted to get to people who don't believe in any religion--that is obviously his preference--and one can hardly blame him after looking at the way the various religions behaved.there are four volumes left in the series--and that only takes us another 200 years--to Napoleon--but he's an interesting writer and often quite humorous.
It is a pity Spain frittered away all the gold they looted from South America on war efforts and had nothing to show for it at the end.The most impressive is the closing chapter giving a detailed account of scientific progress during the period.
The closing chapter also contains detailed review of philosophical books written during the period which gives the volume its title.The book is tough reading, I had to stop two times and go to lighter literature 2 times only to return each time to complete reading of the volume.Most certainly worth the time spent in reading.
Wonderfully written and enormously enlightening for the reader who is new to this area of study. He touches on all the main events and personalities of the period. There is an enormous amount of information on the religious wars of the time, but he balances it out well by covering Architecture, Art, and Drama. I especially like the chapter on King Henry IV, his tolerance, intelligence and how he was able to make peace between the Huggenots and the Catholics, and even today he is still esteemed in the eyes of the French.
I read this book before about 30 years ago but it it such an important era of history from about 1550 to 1650 that it helps to understand what is going on today. Much of modern Europe was created through wars. I've read about half of the Durant series and find them very concise, with fully fleshed out characters, amazing research.The major theme in this book was the struggle between Catholicism and Protestantism, the wars, the killings, and the unification and division of countries over the issue.
This review applies to all Durant's History of Civilization. The author does not follow a strictly chronological approach, but emphasizes those events/personages that have developed our Western civilization. He tends to emphasize certain personalities - some of whom I take exception to - but he stresses those things which make Western man unique. The arts have a prominent place in developing our culture and Durant convinces the reader how important they are.
The series is a work of love. I always feel so privileged when I read one of the Durants' works. This particular volume was first published in the year I was born. And yet, the Durants make me feel as if they are the world's best dinner guests. Erudite, warm, and witty. I'm in good company with my praise. It seems the Asimovs were also fans. http://www.jamierubin.net/2014/05/09/...
Another excellent book by the Durants. As mentioned on my other reviews, there may be better books (and historians -- surely not looking to promote their own works -- suggest reading multiple books on a subject), but the way Durant writes is always entertaining. And certainly civilization is moving forward here!Certainly is almost envious that the Durants could dedicate 45+ years of their life to such a magnum opus.
Guess I set my reading pace for this one too fast. Here is is August, two-thirds of the way through the year, and I've finished. Another very good book from the Durants. I think this is the first one where Ariel is acknowledged as a co-author. It's not about the Age of Reason, but the lead-up to that. Elizabeth I, Shakespeare, lots of wars. We end with Descartes, whose bones I read about last year.
This is the last of these books that I am "putting on hold" as the next in the series I am reading in its intierety. However, I did read a larger portion of this book than the preceding volumes, since it covers a period closer to the time in european history I am most interested in at the moment.
I can knock another of The Durant's Civilization series of my bucket list. Like all the others, this volume is erudite, comprehensive and incredibly worthwhile. The prose is crisp, the detail incredible and the readability truly modern in every sense of the world. Like an old champagne, smooth, bubbly and rewarding!
As always with Durant the content is written in beautiful prose and as comprehensively as possible considering the large space of time. This volume did feel a mite off balance, with not as much space given to the scientists and philosophers that give the age its name.
I continue to be amazed at this wonderful, multi-volume work. I never fail to be surprised and delighted.
The Story of Civilization, Book 7
I have loved all of these books but this one is my fav so far.
too much topic, not enough book
