https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65211.Christ_Stopped_at_Eboli
Πρόκειται για μία απομνημονευτική εμπειρία του Κάρλο Λέβι, όταν στα μέσα της δεκατίας του 1930 σε ένα απομακρυσμένο χωριό, στη Λουκανία της νότιας Ιταλίας, βρίσκεται εκτοπισμένος απο τη φασιστική κυβέρνηση, για απροσδιόριστα πολιτικά αδικήματα.
Ο Χριστιανισμός ως θρησκεία δεν είχε διεισδύσει ακόμη στον μακρινό νότο της Ιταλίας.
Επομένως, οι αγρότες του νότου ήταν ειδωλολάτρες με μια μοιραία δεσμευτική σχέση με τη δύναμη της φύσης παρά με τη θρησκεία.
Έντονη απεικόνιση σχεδόν μνημειακή των αντιθέσεων ανάμεσα στον διάσημο ιστορικά, αναπτυγμένο, πλούσιο και απαθέστατο, χριστιανικό Βορρά και της παραμελημένης οπίσθιας όψης του.
Ήταν η άλλη πλευρά της Ιταλίας, η κατώτερη, η νότια.
569. Cristo si è fermato a Eboli = Christ Stopped at Eboli, Carlo LeviChrist Stopped at Eboli (Italian: Cristo si è fermato a Eboli) is a memoir by Carlo Levi, published in 1945, giving an account of his exile from 1935-1936 to Grassano and Aliano, remote towns in southern Italy, in the region of Lucania which is known today as Basilicata. In the book he gives Aliano the invented name 'Gagliano'. The title of the book comes from an expression by the people of 'Gagliano' who say of themselves, 'C
‭Cristo si è fermato a Eboli = Christ Stopped at Eboli, Carlo LeviChrist Stopped at Eboli (Italian: Cristo si è fermato a Eboli) is a memoir by Carlo Levi, published in 1945, giving an account of his exile from 1935-1936 to Grassano and Aliano, remote towns in southern Italy, in the region of Lucania which is known today as Basilicata.
از این اثر، اقتباس سینمایی معروفی نیز انجام گرفته، که در کشور ما با عنوان: «مسیح هرگز به ابولی نیامد»، یا «دیار فراموش شده»، به نمایش درآمد.
ترجمه ی تخت اللفظی عنوان اصلی کتاب: «مسیح در ابولی متوقف ماند» است.
For me, this was one of those books.Christ Stopped at Eboli is the story of Levi's year living in Basilicata, in the south of Italy, where Mussolini exiled him for anti-Fascist activities.
Levi, who was a doctor by training but a painter by trade, lived among a population mostly composed of peasants, along with a few run-of-the-mill bureaucrats.
The book is a bit hard to classify -- it's part memoir, part political tract, part character study, but it's exquisitely written, especially when Levi is describing the peasants among whose company he spent a year.
What gives the book a true soul, and really elevates it, is the deep, heartfelt sense of longing and love that Levi has for the people he lived with in this village, and in particular for the farmers.
But my bet is, he was a rather idealistic man.Now, what I REALLY saw through this book, I have to admit, was a priviledged member of the Italian society of the '30s (Levi's family was very wealthy), a good, well educated man with an artistic sensitivity, spending 3 years as the revered "smartest guy in the village", doing nothing but painting and reading, in sunny southern Italy.
I would have liked to meet Carlo Levi.Despite being held a political prisoner in the blooming Fascism days of the mid-thirties Italy, he did not turn sour.
It is the day to day struggle that matters, and this is what Carlo Levi portrays in such a tender way.I recommend this for a glimpse into an Italy not so long ago.
Christ stopped at Eboli, down on the coast, up the in the hills the world remains pre-Christian.
This is the author's account of life in one of those hill villages while in internal exile under the fascists.Levi presents most of the villagers as being so isolated from the mainstream of Italian culture that they have a pre-christian or pagan mentality or weltanschauung.
For example at Christmas the poor people give presents to the rich - unlike in the Bible story were the Kings give presents to the carpenter's son - hence the title of the book.
A curious book.
That state of being is manifest in the collective resignation of the downtrodden peasant residents who inhabit the dirt-poor, bleak, isolated Southern Italian hilltop town, built literally on the bones of the dead; a place so dreary and backward that the one-day annual parade at Lent, led by an image of a blackened papier-mache Madonna and a modest fireworks display that cost the peasants six months of earnings, is the highlight of their lives.Levi wrote this memoir in 1943-1944 as Italy's fascist government was crumbling and in it he recounts his forced exile in Gagliano a decade before; a sentence pronounced as the result of his anti-fascist sympathies.
"Christ stopped short of here, at Eboli,"...We're not Christians, we're not human beings; we're not thought of as men but simply as beasts, beasts of burden, or even less than beasts, mere creatures of the wild." Maybe a decade ago, I used to think that everything is beautiful in Italy and all of its people are devout Catholics.
The irony in Levi's writing was that what he described beautifully was the sad state of that poor barren malarial town: where exiles like him were thrown, where many women died during childbirth because there were not competent doctors, where people leave to America for seek for better life never to return, and so where some of the peasants think that they are not Christians but beasts.
Una scrittura fuori dal tempo, la cui bellezza non invecchia mai.
Levi was a painter and the dry, bleak and desolate surroundings are often transmogrified into something ethereal and beautiful; nights where the countryside is bathed in moon-light, everything eerie and fantastical or the little patches of green  exposed by the sunlight hidden amongst the arid expanse of clay which dominated the landscape, Levi renders the lives of the peasants with the subtle, delicate touch of a calligrapher, rather than with the pompous brush of an intellectual; his motivation is to humanise the peasants, rather than mock them and to depict the misery which life tried to enforce on them but which they largely, tried their best not to fight and reject.
It is the story, novelized but real, of author Carlo Levi, a non-practicing doctor and full-time painter who was an Italian political prisoner, sent by the fascist government in power at that time to Gagliano, a village in the poverty-stricken area of southern Italy where the peasants are starving (although taxed non-the-less) and the countryside is bleak beyond belief.
It is a passionate portrayal, rendered in vividly intense images, of an unimaginable poverty by an artist who remarks of a peasant play put on in protest of yet another restriction on their narrow lives, "Where violence and law had failed them, they had recourse to art."Another witness of which would be this book.
A wonderful, evocative read.
The description of the peasant society Levi, as a political prisoner, was exiled to live in.
It can be read as a shocking reflection on poverty, exploitation and politics.
What makes it so good is Levi never judges or belittles local beliefs.
He generally avoids judgement or solution apart from one short analysis towards the end of the book and his general tone towards the gentry and those in power.This is not a book that mythologises poverty, it shows it in its full awfulness - and yet at the same time one is left poignant for this society.
I “know” Italian in the same way I “know” how to cook, throw a punch or pleasure a woman orally. Meaning, I get by, but the results are not always flattering to my self-esteem. Which is why it’s taken me three months to read the first half of Levi’s charming little memoir. And now the library wants it back. Christ stopped at Eboli; Buck stopped on page 150. We’re both slackers.I think I might love this book, though. We’ve agreed to meet at the train station in Vienna in six months.
Let me state the verdict first: A fantastic read.This book is supposed to be a memoir.
And later he narrated his life in south Italy in writing and that has become a masterpiece.
As you read you realise that you are in the midst of the peasants of the south Italy and you experience their life in every aspect.
The north Italians never had the idea of the life in the south Italy.
In Italy also this book was a huge success (Italians were reading about Italians as persons of other civilisation).3.
keşke Carlo Levi nin daha çok kitabı olsa Türkçe de... Uzun zamandır bu kadar gerçekçi olup da bu kadar masalsı anlatan bir yazar ile karşilaşmamıştım.. İtalya. . bize ne kadar çok benziyorsun...
Caveat: There is much to discuss and argue about in this book, not the least of which is his pronouncement of his Gramscian political solutions to the endemic poverty he discovers in Lucania, in the second to last chapter of the book.
Even still, though, I find this book to be a model of beautiful nonfiction in its attempt to deeply understand a culture from the multiple points of view of political systems, sexuality, codes of neighborliness, landscape, memory, mythology, folklore, medicine.
This book is so beautiful.
(And in it you will discover the genesis of the term "abracadabra"--worth it just for that!)
I had been meaning to read this book ever since I read Paul Theroux's The Pillars of Hercules about twenty years ago, where Theroux described his visit to the village where Levi had been exiled, and which Levi had memorialized in Christ Stopped At Eboli.This is a wonderful story of how often so little really changes in the countryside, especially the relationships between the peasants and their would-be rulers. It also has quite a bit to say about the often pointless oppressions of the modern state and its minions.
فوق العاده بود..یک اثر بسیار قوی..نگاهی به زندگی مردمانی که تاریخ بی انکه لمسشان کرده باشد از فراز سرشان گذشته است..قلم نویسنده بسیاری قوی بود و صحنه پردازی و شخصیت پردازی فوق العاده..داستان یک تبعیدی که در یک روستای دور افتاده با مردم فراموش شده جنوب ایتالیا زندگی میکنه و زندگی رو از نگاه اونا میبینه..فوق العاده بود.
Descrierea exilului unui doctor în timpul Italiei fasciste. Narațiune la persoana I. Dialogul lipsește aproape cu desăvârșire, fiind deci o confesiune lăuntrică. Din această confesiune nu se înțelege însă caracterul anti-fascist al naratorului (căci mă gândesc că așa ar trebui să fie). Conchid că nu vrea să ofere cititorului decât o morală conform căreia nu te poți împotrivi niciunui regim politic totalitar, fiind nevoit să îl accepți și -ca remediu- să admiri frumusețea rustica a naturii, asta fiind ceva cu care nu pot fi de acord.
ecco un altro libro che al liceo avevo schivato accuratamente reputandolo una palla e ovviamente mi sbagliavo di grosso. Si tratta di un capolavoro clamoroso (e per nulla palloso), inutile spendere altre parole...
E ho capito perchè è stato un libro letto in moltissime linge, per l'universalità del suo linguaggio, e della sua denuncia, comprensibile in Cina quanto nelle campagne della Bolivia.Carlo Levi lo scrisse nel '43, ancora in piena guerra, forse per fermare i ricordi del suo confino in terra di Lucania, la dove perfino Cristo non era arrivato, e neanche lo Stato, ne la civiltà , né la scienza, oppressa ancora allora dalla malaria, dall'ignoranza, e dalla miseria.Ma ciò che si apprezza nel libro è la capacità unica di entrare nel mondo e nella civiltà contadina, e quella del meridione lo era in modo diverso da quella delle fertili pianure del nord, assolutamente priva di superiorità, svestendosi dei preconcetti e degli stereotipi del cittadino evoluto e istruito, per concedere ai contadini di quelle terre desolate un'aura di mitologica arcaica dignità.
Powerful, poetic and poignant.
Much has changed of course, but the attitudes, the wisdom and stoicism against the abuses of power are timeless.3.5 starsFav. quote:Per i contadini, lo Stato è piú lontano del cielo, e piú maligno, perché sta sempre dall’altra parte.
I contadini non li capiscono, perché è un altro linguaggio dal loro, e non c’è davvero nessuna ragione perché li vogliano capire.
La sola possibile difesa, contro lo Stato e contro la propaganda, è la rassegnazione, la stessa cupa rassegnazione, senza speranza di paradiso, che curva le loro schiene sotto i mali della natura.
Non solo un affresco della società contadina del periodo interbellico; non solo uno spaccato dell'impatto del fascismo sulla società; non solo una lucida riflessione sulla Questione Meridionale; questo libro è scritto in modo sublime.
Συλλεκτικό, αγαπημένο βιβλίο με εξαιρετική μετάφραση από τη Ρίτα Μπούμη Παππά.Αναγνωστική απόλαυση.
Il romanzo è l'esperienza vissuta dall'autore in terra di Lucania, da confinato nel 1936. Bellissime e precisissime le descrizioni dei paesaggi e dei personaggi, sia dei singoli individui che della collettività (i contadini o le donne, per esempio). Dolorosa, invece, la descrizione della miseria e della povertà vissuta dagli abitanti di queste terre, soprattutto dai contadini, tanto amati dall'autore. La malaria, l'impossibilità di accedere a cure mediche di base, l'assenza degli uomini partiti in guerra, il sopruso dei "notabili", tutto rema contro la povera gente, che cerca di sopravvivere come può e crede poco nel futuro.
In addition to being superbly well written (and translated), Carlo Levi’s book succeeds in achieving what only the best non-fiction does: it educates your feeling for human possibilities and expands your capacity for wonder. Levi says that he was tutored by his housekeeper in peasant magic while exiled in Lucania; I think this book is proof that he gained considerable proficiency.
کتاب مسیح هرگز به اینجا نرید یا میح در ابولی متوقف مان کتابیت راوی گونه از اقامت تقریبا دو ساله ی یک
"İsa Bu Köye Uğramadı" adıyla Türkçe'ye çevrilen harika bir köy anlatısı olmuş. Tıpkı köylerde zamanın ağır ağır aktığı gibi ağır okunan bir kitap oldu. Kitap İtalya'nın yokluk ve hastalıkla kuşatılmış bir köyünde kilise-halk, devlet-vatandaş, köylü-politikacı, doğa-insan ilişkisini bir siyasi sürgünün gözünden anlatıyor. Bu kitabı bana öneren Goodreads uygulaması on ikiden vurmuş diyebilirim.
So deep and poignant that this novel has stayed with me for decades. Somehow it encompasses the cores of Italian culture and values in one way- in its very base dichotomy. Especially during this time when that exact specific quality becomes so often conflicted, individually and in economic group, with the oppressive politico. Characterizations are supreme in this work. Locale feel superb.
A wise, sympathetic, beautifully written (and excellently translated) account of a year spent in forced exile in poverty-stricken southern Italy. Levi's prose is poetic and gently ironic, but never haughty or pretentious. His descriptions of the pagan, animistic worldview of the peasants are among the best things I've read in recent memory.
