https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25526296-every-heart-a-doorway
“We went down, and at the bottom there was a door, and on the door there was a sign. Two words. ‘Be Sure.’ Sure of what? We were twelve, we weren’t sure of anything. So we went through." This book is exactly my kind of weird.I have to try and explain Every Heart a Doorway somehow, but it isn't easy. It's a kind of dark, creepy fairy tale about all those children who slipped through the cracks - a wardrobe, a rabbit hole, or a simple doorway - and found themselves somewhere else; somewhere no on
It's a kind of dark, creepy fairy tale about all those children who slipped through the cracks - a wardrobe, a rabbit hole, or a simple doorway - and found themselves somewhere else; somewhere no one would believe they'd been.
No one, that is, except Eleanor West.Eleanor West's Home for Wayward Children is where despairing parents send their troubled kids.
For example, Lundy's response to Nancy's question about why there are more girls than boys:
I love how the book manages to be comical and serious, dark and light, fairy tale and psychological thriller, all at the same time.
This was definitely not what I was expecting it to be, but it was a fun read! I liked the mystery aspect of it and I enjoyed getting to know the cast of characters and the different worlds they had come from. I did want a little more of a punch with the ending, but it was overall satisfying.
Such a charming, lovely book about magic and belonging. I absolutely ADORED the premise, the writing, and the cast of characters. My only real complaint is that I wish it was longer and the mystery aspect was a little more fleshed out. It's a very short book, and there's a lot of great stuff packed into the pages we have, but it was a bit too abrupt. Still, the ideas explored and the beautiful imagery far outweigh the negatives for me. Cannot wait to get my hands on the prequel/companion novel coming out in a few months!
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best fantasy category 2016! "Before I went through that doorway, I knew there was no such thing as a portal to another world. Now I know that if you open the right door at the right time, you might finally find a place where you belong. Why does that mean I can't go back?"i started a review for this book when i read it three months ago, but i kept putting it off and as the pub date grew ever closer, i started panicking with "oh no, i loved this so much
it's a stunner.it takes place at a very special boarding school, called Eleanor West's Home for Wayward Children; a safe haven for boys and (mostly) girls who, like alice or those narnia kids, went through doors leading to fantasy-worlds, spent considerable time in those worlds, and then for one reason or another, returned to their old lives.
Their love wanted to fix her, and refused to see that she wasn't broken.to those who have never been through a portal to a magical world, their children's accounts seem to be childish fantasies at best or, more alarmingly, a form of madness.
This is hands down my favorite book of all time.
I have read it 6 times now and I love it more and more each time.
This book is for anyone who has ever felt different and weird.
ever felt like they didn't fit in and dreamed of a place that accepted what others denied.
"For us, the places we went were home.
We didn't care if they were good or evil or neutral or what.
We cared about the fact that for the first time we didn't have to pretend to be something we weren't.
We just got to be.
This is hands down my favorite book of all time.
This book is for anyone who has ever felt different and weird.
ever felt like they didn't fit in and dreamed of a place that accepted what others denied.
"For us, the places we went were home.
We didn't care if they were good or evil or neutral or what.
We cared about the fact that for the first time we didn't have to pretend to be something we weren't.
That made all the difference in the world."
If you ever read a book based on my recommendation, please let it be this one.
My childhood was basically 80% obsession with books were children stumbled into other worlds (and like the remaining 20% was just wondering when I could eat cake) so this kind of spoke to my childhood soul a bit.
Very murder!• Little bit o' blood everywhere which is nice.• The headmistress was downright awesome, like that zany grandma trope, but complex and interesting.
Like she barely did anything??• IT DISSED NARNIA AND I HATE IT FOR THAT.
And like obviously I'm protective of Narnia because it was my childhood, but it was half the reason I wanted to read THIS book.
I really had a fantastic time reading it and would seriously recommend it to everyone.I honestly had an issue with the writing for the first few pages.
(That being said, I see there's two other books in this series and I am HERE for them.)I really really loved the characters more than I could have anticipated from a novella.
I would highly highly recommend this book over and over if you are looking for a fun yet dark, diverse fantasy novella with the most amazing writing that will only take you a few hours to read.
Reality is harsh, even more so if you've been one of the numbers of children who went through magical portals to otherworldly lands, like Wonderland, or Narnia. Imagine escaping to a land magical beyond your dreams.  "I was looking for a bucket in the cellar of our house, and I found this door I’d never seen before. When I went through, I was in a grove of pomegranate trees. I thought I’d fallen and hit my head. I kept going because … because…”Because the air had smelled so sweet, and the sky ha
Reality is harsh, even more so if you've been one of the numbers of children who went through magical portals to otherworldly lands, like Wonderland, or Narnia.
The writing is exceptional, evocative, emotional, which is the reason I included that very long excerpt above, as a sample.The characters in the book are well-developed from the many characters, each of whom have their own well-built tale, to the headmistress of the school, Eleanor West, who was a former visitor to another world herself.
3.5
(Sorry if the improvised “baby” prevented you from saying it with me.)This book is about a boarding school for children who have fallen into other worlds (magical ones!) and been unceremoniously dropped back into our boring old magic-less one.
I’m excited.)And perhaps the most perfect thing of all: This book is so diverse it puts literally every other book ever to shame.
But don’t let the creepiness of my physically improbably smiling deter you from this book please.To conclude: amazingly short + wonderful magical realism + Alice + boarding school + murder + mystery + effortless immersive diversity = I am one happy camper.
If you want to contact me, please reach out to my spirit via astral projection whilst I'm daydreaming about finding my own doorway into a magical realm and kicking off a series of events that will eventually lead me into an eery boarding school with oddball people from different ethnicities and with differing sexual orientations!
“You found freedom, if only for a moment, and when you lost it, you came here, hoping it could be found again.”This story started out grand and sprawling, a majestic, epic tale of finding out what happens when you come back to an unwanted reality after living in a magical place.And yet somewhere along the way, it didn’t work for me.This book read more like a short story than a full novel and I liked that.
The stories they told in group therapy of finding the door and what happened when they went through it interested me so much.“What about, like, Narnia?” asked Christopher.
*Unpopular Opinion Time* I very rarely give books 1 star ratings, but I just didn't like it. The majority of my friends and the world loved it and I'm glad they did, but it just wasn't for me. Enough said =(
► Are you still interested in this perfect mix of creepy atmosphere and hilarious dark humor?■ YES : Go to #2■ NO : Go to #10#2 Not to say that this novel was plotless, because an important part of the story revolved around a murder mystery, but in my opinion its strength lay elsewhere : in the issues dealt with, first of these being the way we humans need to satisfy our thirst for acceptance and understanding - for hope.
#11 : "Time had a way of doing that." Want more?
Rating: 4.5 stars
Buddy Read with Cory!Seanan McGuire was able to pack so much representation into 173 pages! How many 1,000+ page fantasy novels have I read with zero representation? This story has an asexual main character and a transsexual main character. The story does a pretty great job at abolishing gender roles, too. This book really is nothing short of a masterpiece.   “This world is unforgiving and cruel to those it judges as even the slightest bit outside the norm.”  Some of the passages in this book bl
Basically, this story is a murder mystery that takes place inside a boarding school.
The boarding school houses children that have been to faraway, magical lands and no longer fit into society, because they want nothing more than to go back through their magical doorways, to the places they consider home.
Eleanor is one of the very few, special people, that are able to find and open their magical world's door at any given time.
“Because hope is a knife that can cut through the foundations of the world...
im not sure i understand the massive amounts of hype that surround this book, but i still think its a pretty dang good story regardless.which is surprising, because urban fantasy is soooo not my genre.
but its the writing and the overall message of the story that really sell this for me.
the notion of everyone having a doorway, a place we so desperately long to go when the world gets to be a little too much to bear at times, is so relatable.
so many little nuggets of wisdom and hope are nestled throughout this book.
but overall, a very unexpectedly touching story!
I mean I get that the author didn't like this character and so for some reason had to punish her, but isn't that a bit fucking unnecessary for a young adult novel?note #3: identifying a character as "Latino" and having their Narnia be some fantasy Day of the Dead Land only makes the author seem like a well-intentioned but basically clueless white liberal, checking off some demographic box, while not understanding that noting someone as "Latino" could mean they look like any shade of white, brown, or black...
Eleanor West may tell the parents what they want to hear, but she knows that the children she takes in aren't lying and gives them a safe haven where they can talk about their experiences and meet other children like themselves.
It was more of a novella than a book and I really wish there was more details about the other worlds because I found that really fascinating especially hearing about the other kids experiences, not just Nancy.
A good enchanting short tale on acceptance and misfits.Hogwarts, Narnia, Middle-Earth, every reader who has tasted speculative fiction will most likely have imagined themselves transported to one, Every Heart A Doorway (EHAD) showed the aftermath of going into these different worlds with no option of going back to them.
For such a short book—around 2 hours read—EHAD managed to talk about a lot of important topics regarding diversity, bullying and most importantly, acceptance; not to mention McGuire’s prose is so damn lovely and enchanting to read.
I recommend this to anyone who’s looking for a good short portal fantasy read.
You’re nobody’s doorway but your own, and the only one who gets to tell you how your story ends is you.   It seems like I have finally stumbled upon the lives of the Wayward children. The book is underrated as in not many people have read it, but its overrated as in it gets too much hype. My expectations were so high, I was really hoping to binge read the whole trilogy that's out and fall in love with the author's writing, characters, and the whole idea of the story. I ended up checking the wh
My expectations were so high, I was really hoping to binge read the whole trilogy that's out and fall in love with the author's writing, characters, and the whole idea of the story.
I feel like McGuire wanted to make the story short so she added everything together, not adding enough or adding too much.The whole idea seemed enchanting to me.
When I first started reading Every Heart a Doorway, it felt like I was also taken to a school where no one accepted what I saw except for the rest of the students.
#1 Every Heart a Doorway ★★★★★#2 Down Among the Sticks and Bones ★★★★★#3 Beneath the Sugar Sky ★★★★★#4 In An Absent Dream ???I somehow lived a full 25 years of my life without experiencing Seanan McGuire’s writing, and now that I’ve seen how incredible her story-telling is, I can’t imagine ever letting it go.
She is fiercely protective and loving of her students, determined to offer them a home away from the worlds they so desperately wanted to return to.
I could honestly ramble forever about this little story, but the bottom line is that it is an incredible tale of acceptance, healing, friendship, trauma, and finding yourself – be it in this world, or another.
Re-read 1/19/18: Y’all, this was SO much fun to re-read after knowing the backstory of Jack & Jill that we get in Down Among the Sticks and Bones. I can’t wait to re-read it again sometime after I finish Beneath the Sugar Sky. I just love this universe SO MUCH. Re-read 7/17/17: I loved this even more the second time around. I cannot wait to finally dig into Down Among the Sticks and Bones!Original read 12/20/16: I really, REALLY liked this. My only complaint is that I wish it was 500 pages longer. I neeeeeed more!
Their love wanted to fix her, and refused to see that she wasn't broken. I think I might have needed to adjust my expectations from novel-goals to novella-goals. I judged this as a book. I did not judge this as a novella. To be fair, I do think this novella could've done with more character work and that all-important middle section. But the fact remains that my rating and review of this is slightly unfair, and I've definitely enjoyed later works Down Among the Sticks and Bones and Beneath the
To be fair, I do think this novella could've done with more character work and that all-important middle section.
The ace character was definitely represented well; I especially liked that the book separated asexuality and aromanticism, because oh dang, some people do not seem to understand they're different.
I think I missed something because I didn’t notice the existence of a gay character and I keep seeing reviews mentioning her.
I felt the need to try and frame this book with the three-act structure, but I couldn’t, because there is literally no middle section.
We depend upon the silence of women.This book was heart-achingly beautiful.
I don't even know how to coherently arrange my thoughts to explain the way this book dragged me in from beginning to end.
I think they have the potential to say so much in so few words, and this has definitely fallen among my favorite books that say so much in such little space.
This book was about identity.
Not to mention the inclusion of an asexual main character whose identity is confirmed on the page and actually discussed.
As well as a side character who is a trans boy and whose identity is also discussed in such a fascinating and wonderful way.
update:  yes hello ignore this old ass cringe af review but i came here to change my rating to 5 stars. upon some self reflection (i literally just gained common fucking sense, woke up one morning and was like wtf dumb bitch this is a 5 star book) i decided to give this book the rating it deserves because it truly is a one of a kind experience and i LOVE it with every inch of my being. ok weird monologue ends now. pick up this series. thanks ___________yes hello this is a psa: this book has mag
thanks ___________yes hello this is a psa: this book has magical doors that lead you to different worlds, dancing skeletons and on top of that, beautiful lgbt rep in it!!!!!!!
lgbt rep in fantasy (or whatever the fuck this is) is so important and i appreciated the diversity in Every Heart a Doorway a lot.all in all, i fucking loved this fairy-tale-esque, dark, weird little story and i can't wait to read Down Among the Sticks and Bones!
“You’re nobody’s doorway but your own, and the only one who gets to tell you how your story ends is you.”
This is easily one of the most intriguing plots I've read in a novel all year. It's like Miss Peregrine and Wicked had a child. I agree that this read a bit briefly and I would have enjoyed more character development and imagery of the setting, but I can't deny that the representation (ace MC, trans side character, & diverse ethnicities), the enchanting dialogue, and the premise itself didn't captivate me enough. I didn't expect that this would be a murder mystery--definitely not my fav--but I enjoyed it nonetheless.
I was hesitant about the premise, I thought I wouldn't enjoy a story about doorways to other worlds but this book pulled me in and said, 'let me prove you wrong!'If you've heard about the representation of this book, yes it has on page rep of an asexual main character, a trans male main character, a Japanese side character, a Latino side character, and good discussion of the distinction between being asexual and aromantic.
I was definitely left needing more, but I think that's an incredible thing and says a lot about the development of this story and characters that the author made me want more of a story that felt completely wrapped up.
I just wanted more because it was SO good.
Later in the book it's revealed that (view spoiler)[Eleanor can get back to her world anytime, but she can't survive there as an adult because she can't tolerate quite that much Nonsense (hide spoiler)].
(view spoiler)[If Eleanor can't tolerate Nonsense as an adult, I don't believe that the older teenagers could, either.
I know they're all coming back from the worlds, but one of the themes here seems to be adulthood, the growing up, which is why so many of the kids find their first love so true on the other side.
Full review posted: 10 Reasons to Read this Book 1. It’s under 200 pages aka you can finish it in an afternoon (and you don’t even have to try hard)2. IT’S EVERYTHING Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children WASN’T3. The writing is so captivating and poetic and creepy, you’re gonna stop understanding what you’re reading just so you can marvel at the beauty that is the book, and then you’re gonna have to go back and reread the passage 4. THE MYSTERY IS EFFING CHILLING5. And it’s also quite eas
1.	It’s under 200 pages aka you can finish it in an afternoon (and you don’t even have to try hard)2.
IT’S EVERYTHING Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children WASN’T3.
Each and every character is complex and has their own strong, assertive voice (you will become attached to them no matter how peculiar they are)8.
This book is wild my friends, you’re not gonna be able to put it down until you solve the mystery and find out what happens to the characters(s) The only bad thing about this book is that you’re going to be screaming over the fact that you don’t have the next book in your hands.
