https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17237214-two-boys-kissing
You can also see it as four short stories being connected to one another due to something they all have in common and with characters that are beautifully crafted and looking for something of most importance: love & self-discovery and acceptance.I have to admit that I had read the blurb a while ago before starting this novel, and so had no idea who actually narrated the story.
OIGAN. ¿POR QUÉ NADIE ME INSISTIÓ MIL VECES QUE LEYERA A DAVID LEVITHAN?Este libro es PRECIOSO. Lo amé con todo mi corazón, ¡y escuché el audiolibro narrado por el mismo autor! Y ay, todo fue tan bonito.
I’ll try… Of course I’ll try, but I’m pretty certain it will be more than just tough to describe my deep love for this wonderful book!”Two Boys Kissing” hit me right in the heart and triggered all those horrible and amazing feels and if I’m entirely honest I still don’t know how to deal with them.
I usually try my very best to either hide them away or to keep them really close to my frail heart, but while I read this book I kind of failed to do both…”Our happiness had defiance, and our happiness had fear.
And Love is so essential, how could you ever stand in its way?"I don't even know how to do this book justice - so I will simply say READ IT.
I know there’s worry about kids who might be ashamed of being seen with an ‘out’ book with an ‘out’ cover — but that is far outweighed by the kids who take pride in it, or find some sort of meaning through it.As for challenges and censors: the book is called Two Boys Kissing.
This small little 196 page book packs more of a punch that some 800 page puppy squishers that I've read. Just beautiful.Freedom is also about what you will allow yourself to do.Craig and Henry: they are the two boys kissing. Going for the world's record longest kiss. Peter and Neil: already a coupleAvery and Ryan: new to a relationship and trying to make their wayAnd Cooper-who feels so lostTariq. My favorite character in the whole book. Just read this book. The first sentence of the truth is al
This small little 196 page book packs more of a punch that some 800 page puppy squishers that I've read.
Just beautiful.Freedom is also about what you will allow yourself to do.Craig and Henry: they are the two boys kissing.
Going for the world's record longest kiss.
Just read this book.
The first sentence of the truth is always the hardest.
Each of us had a first sentence, and most of us found the strength to say it out loud to someone who deserved to hear it.
The phrase rush to judgement is a silly one.
When it comes to judgement, most of us don't rush.
It has cemented my love, appreciation, and respect for him both as a person, from the standpoint of someone who is and always will be an active supporter of gay rights, and it has also cemented my love, appreciation, and respect for him as a writer, from the standpoint of a reader who is in a state of endless wonder and awe every time she picks up a novel of Levithan's.However, as much as I found myself loving Levithan's previous novel, Every Day, I have to say that Two Boys Kissing is my absolute favorite work by him.
And that, in essence, is Two Boys Kissing.To quote the Greek Chorus of the generation of gay men lost to AIDs that narrates this beautiful novel, please know that the above is true.

It was a quick read and I breezed through the individual stories of young men dealing with families who wouldn't accept them, online hookup sites, and first love.
What I like most about David Levithan and what makes me want to check out his books every time - even when some didn't work for me in the past - is his experimental style.
He never writes the same style of book.
The "voice" of the AIDs victims was exhausting and sometimes stopped me from fully engaging with the individual stories, especially when the novelty factor ran out.
How much do you enjoy experimental writing styles that offer something completely different and totally weird?
If you want to understand what it means to be a gay youth read this book yourself and allow your heart to open, swell and if its like mine will explode with sadness, gladness, thankfulness and hope.
These are such genuine stories of a variety of young gay men living their lives, loving their loves and struggling against a world that at times hates them but more importantly also loves them and longs to have them participate fully in our society.
Behind them there is the chorus of men that have died from Aids when in large part the world didn't care and allowed them to die.
Cross-posted at Shelf Inflicted and at Outlaw Reviews Don’t let the provocative cover stop you from picking up this book. It is about two boys, Craig and Harry, who are still good friends, but no longer together, locking lips to break the world’s record for the longest kiss.  Enough time had gone by that when they started kissing again, the electricity was gone, replaced by something closer to architecture. They were kissing with a purpose, but the purpose wasn’t them; it was the kiss itself. Th
Avery, the boy with pink hair who the world thinks is a girl, and Ryan, are dealing with the anxiety that is common in all new relationships.
He is angry at his father, angry at his mother, but mostly he’s come to feel that all this was inevitable, that he was born to be a boy who must sleep in his car, that there was no way he was going to make it through high school without being caught.
Mark would have been ecstatic that gays now have the right to marry in the US, but he would have lamented the loss of all the clubs and bookstores that closed once Internet changed the world.
“Things are not magical because they've been conjured for us by some outside force.
They are magical because we create them.”At first, I struggled to get into this and I put it down twice before it kept me reading.
Another thing I struggled with was the many main characters!I think the thing I liked the most about  Two Boys Kissing  is the way it ends.
You do not really know what is going to happen next, but you do know that every one of these characters carries on living their life.
THE COVER![image error]CAN.NOT.WAIT!!!EDIT AFTER READ
What an unfortunate cover and title for this fabulously original book.Looking at the cover, you would think this is a YA cheesy gay romance.
They are kissing on the front lawn of their high school, and the narrative takes place over the many challenging hours of their kiss.Our narrators tell us about the two boys kissing and a few other teenage boys.
They dwell on how it can still be really hard to be a gay teenager.
There’s a bit of humour, there’s some heartbreak, there’s some discomfort in trying to imagine the agony of sustaining a kiss for so long and there’s lots of wisdom.Ok. I’m failing miserably at doing justice to this beautiful original book.But I’m gushing.
And if it’s topical, it runs the risk of being a message book that’s pushing its agenda in all caps.Second, oh god do I hate the title, which sounds like it might be boy porn (it absolutely is not porn!).
There’s a Greek chorus of men who died from AIDS and who are talking to them (though of course the boys don’t hear them), imparting their wisdom, comparing what life was like for gay men in the 1980s and 90s.
The message is not subtle (and preachy hardly ever works for me) but it’s emotional in a way that just grabbed me and wouldn’t let go.Meanwhile, there are six other gay boys, all struggling with their sexuality.
This paperback has been sitting on my shelf for years.I didn’t know it would be ‘that’ **amazing**.I was almost shocked by the brilliance of what David Levithan created. SO EXCEPTIONAL!!!! This novel - based on several true stories is phenomenally ‘timeless’ —a young adult LGBT *classic*.A tribute to the past- present - and - future! A ‘must’ read to get the magnitude of this book’s power on our lives!!!!
I have read Two Boys Kissing and I fell in love with it.
Trust me people, they don't sound like a mob of zombies.What makes Two Boys Kissing such an imperative read for basically everyone, is that it follows the stories of different gay teens in different relationship statuses.
Craig and Harry don't care what other people think, they may not necessarily be a couple anymore but they are planning to set a new record for the longest kiss.
All share how their friends and families deal with the new facts that; Craig, Harry, Avery, Ryan, Cooper, Neil and Peter are gay.
Two Boys Kissing is about falling in and out of love.
SOY GAY Y SOY FELIZ SIÉNDOLO :)TARDE 2 SEMANAS EN LEER ESTE LIBRO, POR QUE NO ESTABA BIEN EMOCIONALMENTE, PERO AHORA QUE LO HE ACABADO, SE QUE ERA EL LIBRO INDICADO PARA SALIR ADELANTE.
El tema de la literatura juvenil, esta muy bien tratado por el escritor, usa frases coloquiales y matices reales de la vida de cualquier chico homosexual.2.
BUSCA SIEMPRE VIVIR PARA CONOCER TU SER DEL FUTURO, gracias David Levithan, era la frase que necesitaba escuchar en este momento de mi vida.
8. La muerte en este libro, es una idea muy bien planteada y sensibiliza al lector.
I just want to say that Two Boys Kissing by David Levithan was possibly the most beautiful book I've ever read. I can't describe to you the feelings it gives but I can tell you that it will open your eyes dramatically. This book will change you for the better after reading it. Causing you to be aware, cautious, caring, and loving to everyone around you. I seriously cannot wait to share this book with others.
He couldn't even yell for help, because the only sounds he could make were ones he'd never heard before, a wailing, gutteral acknowledgement of the sudden, intense pain as they punched and they kicked, laughing their faggots at him as they broke his ribs." (I left the character's name out in case you haven't read the book yet.)"The first sentence of the truth is always the hardest.
Also, no one should have to be afraid to tell people who they love.
Sharing truth is not the kind of gift that comes in wrapping paper - ripped open at once and, there, you're done.
The reader experiences what it's like to be gay in America from several angles.
D Lev. himself is a gay man who wrote Boy Meets Boy just ten years ago, but realising how far LGBT rights have progressed since then is a revelation unto itself.There is always hope for a world in which one of my close friends can be open about his sexual identity without facing recrimination from his friends or family.
If books like Levithan's could change the world, what a time to be alive.P.S. Check out Will Grayson, Will Grayson and The Realm of Possibility if you haven't either!
OMG!This book ...How do I convey how good this book is, when I'm shouting expletives in my head- the kinds that express incredulity at having one's mind blown away.
You see, they'd been through a lot, they had it rougher; things have improved, after all, two boys are kissing on a high school lawn, trying to beat the world record for the longest kiss and it's quite the record - thirty-two hours, twelve minutes and ten seconds.
While things have improved, it's not all smooth sailing for the gay teenagers.
I'm not American, I'm not a gay teenager, I had absolutely nothing in common with anything or anyone in this novel.
The reactions of the people around them was both uplifting and saddening, but all the while they continued to support each other, without words, just with actions and it really made me feel that they were completely dedicated to their cause and each other.However, Two Boys Kissing is not just the story of Harry and Craig, it is also the story of several other boys that are drawn to Harry and Craigs world record attempt, all whilst experiencing their own life-changing and affirming situations.
This made my all time favorites list!I never would have thought with a title of “Two Boys Kissing,” and a not so great cover, I would have loved this book so much.
But, this this is so universal it didn’t matter.Levithan centers his novel around a true event, two boys kissing to break a world record.
But, my oh my, the narrators are the previous generation of gay men, looking down with support, understanding, and even resentment.I loved this early quote...“We were once the ones living and then we were the ones dying.
Two Boys Kissing is a powerful read.
The story encompasses several stories of the struggles of what it means to be a gay youth all the while describing the joy and pain of trying to break the world's record for the longest kiss.
I feel a little overwhelmed from just finishing this deeply emotional book.
*cleansing breath* First of all, I'm delighted that this is a YA novel.
I feel that it's a must read for every age, but the fact that it's shelved in the YA section warms my heart.
It was kind of an ethereal feeling as I read.
I was touched by this novel and it has left a mark on my heart.
I'm not, and I haven't been in a very very long time (the Bee Gees charted the last year of my teens), so my muted response to the teen-angst "does he/doesn't he/will he/won't he" stuff is pretty much assured.Others have commented on the dead gay men of my generation being the collective narrators with everything from tolerant smirks to outright derision.
At All. However much I don't like that narrative choice, I do feel the acknowledgment of those gone before is a net positive choice.
We, the AIDS generation, largely vanished after the disease decimated us because there weren't descendants or loving memories in families for far, far too many of us.
I definitely enjoyed this book especially because I think it's message and relevance is profound.It 
Eu posso dizer com certeza que chorei do inicio ao fim desse livro.
E não é porque acontecem coisas tristes e tragédias, é porque ele toca em assuntos do fundo da alma.
Talvez por não ser um rapaz gay eu tinha tudo pra não me identificar com esse livro, mas eu não deixei um minuto de pensar em todos os amigos gays que cercam a minha vida.
Como não se relacionar com isso?
Como não se frustrar com um mundo em que a gente tem q brigar pra ser visto como pessoa?
Como não se entristecer que muitas vezes essas estrelas são apagadas?
Esse livro fala sobre tudo isso.
David Levithan writes a YA novel that is both epistolary and hortatory, a letter of encouragement from one generation of dead gay men to the current generation of gay boys. It was inspired in part by a Walt Whitman poem where he misheard the first line as two boys kissing:We two boys together clinging, One the other never leaving, Up and down the roads going—North and South excursions making, Power enjoying—elbows stretching—fingers clutching, Arm’d and fearless—eating, drinking, sleeping, lovin
It was also inspired by an actual event, two boys trying to break the Guinness Book of World Record for a continuous kiss (more than 32 hours).
And Tariq, who is beaten up and films the (above) kiss.Maybe because I am a parent, I paid as much attention to how families supported or failed to support their sons:“It is hard to stop seeing your son as a son and to start seeing him as a human being.
Every single one of us wishes our family had acted like our family, that even when we found a new family, we hadn’t had to leave the other one behind.
After Finishing3.5 StarsTwo Boys Kissing is not only a book about two boys.
The people we have lost from disease and suicide, the ones who look at these boys with both worry and envy, the ones of a lost generation of gay teenagers not unlike the ones we're reading about now.
I was looking forward to this book a great deal.
Kissing boys?
A book with kissing boys on the cover?
A book by David Levithan?
I wish Levithan had left it to three perspectives instead of five, six, or seven.
Right when I was starting to get into one boy's story, it switched to another one.
“Does he love me, I want to knowHow can I tell if he loves me so“Is it in his eyes, oh no you'll be 
“It’s in His Kiss” / ”The Shoop Shoop Song (It’s in His Kiss)” Songwriters: Rudy Clark I remember seeing this title when I read another David Levithan book, ‘Dash & Lily’s Book of Dares’ and enjoying it so much that I wanted to check out some of his other books.
I remember seeing the cover, and title of this and thinking about the fact that this is a YA book, and the potential for it being too simplified, too trying-too-hard, too trendy, maybe.And then recently I ran across several of my goodreads friends reviews for this, as they had recently read this.
This is a book about dreams, aspirations, feelings, heart-breaking, hurting, hope, dead hope, broken dreams and everything in between and beyond!I've never loved a writing style more than I loved this author's.
It makes you want to scream and yell and shake things!
It also makes you want to change something in the world and be a better and more accepting person.I recommend this book to all my GR friends.
It's one of those extraordinary books that you'll remember for a long time.On the final note, the author explains that he was inspired by the longest kiss between Matty and Bobby in 2010.
