https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198692.Sister_of_the_Bride
Now Barbara feels that her life needs love and to plan a great wedding for Rosemary (and for her future self).The restlessness of youth definitely resignated with me early on as I remember feeling that way at times.
I loved how the book showed hardships and joyous moments of being engaged, being a college student, and planning a wedding as these are all things that I currently am.
Unlike Rosemary I'll love married after I graduate as I couldn't imagine trying to get married as a freshman in college and trying to figure out all the things that go into being a married couple.This book came out in the early 1960s (63 to be exact) so I thought everything would be dated.
I can't choose a favorite Cleary YA book, but I'd bet that Cleary had the most fun while writing this one.
"Have you thought about them?""Of course we have thought about children," was Rosemary's heated answer.Just how detailed a response did Rosemary provide?01-24-10:With every re-read, this book gets better and better.
4-22-08 review:"If she was going to get married in seven hundred days she should think about falling in love, and the sooner the better."Mammoth thanks to Kate for mailing me a copy.
This one is just plain fun, probably because Barbara never gets all that angsty about boys.
After the punch in the solar plexus that was The Power, I went to this sweet story of two sisters in the early 1960s, one of whom (Rosemary) has just gotten engaged and the other (Barbara) who is a junior in high school trying to find a boyfriend.I loved Beverly Cleary's The Luckiest Girl when I was in middle school.
Though she is determined to marry her somewhat older boyfriend, she is just as determined to finish college and have her own career.This is however Barbara's story.
More squeaky clean teen romance. At least that's the way I remember it.
I love everything Beverly Cleary ever wrote, and this is no exception!
Completely different from her Ramona books, intended for teens back in the day but suitable for older middle readers now, this is the story of a girl whose sister is getting married.
As usual with Cleary, she takes such a simple premise and makes it fascinating.
I remember thinking this is what it would be like when my older sister got married: the showers, the gifts, the dress fittings, all told in the usual plain-but-engaging style you'd expect from Beverly Cleary.
My daughter just eats up these sweet, old-fashioned Beverly Cleary teen romances.
I'm reading this at her urging!
It is a cute book, but my favorite one of these "First Love" books is, and I think always will be, Fifteen.Update: I finished this and thought it was cute but not as fun as some other Cleary books.
The strange thing for me was that I remember feeling some of the very kinds of things when my older sister got married, yet reading it in Barb's voice just wasn't that interesting.
I think Cleary's middle grade books are definitely her strength, but her books aimed for older readers convey the same understanding and subtlety present in all of Cleary's writing.
This book is actually rather progressive regarding many issues, especially Rosemary's insistence upon finishing school after she marries Greg (despite demeaning comments from older women, especially her grandmother), her preference for a smaller wedding and useful wedding gifts (stainless steel rather than silver--the horror!), and Barbara's worries that she won't be accepted to the college of her choice.
Other issues in the book are more timeless (young love, sibling rivalry), but expecting this book to match modern YA is unrealistic and, honestly, disrespects Cleary's forward thinking.
Re-read this as it fell across my desk as a donation to the library book sale.
I do live Beverly Cleary, but this title is so very dated.
Men and women had such distinct roles.Barbara goes through all the feels when her sister gets engaged.
She is excited to be maid of honor, disappointed that the wedding party has so many married men, goes about trying to fall in love in earnest so that she also will marry young.
I do remember that sewing was a part of the lives of the teen girls in Beverly Cleaey's books, and here Barbara sews her maid of honor dress.
I wasn't a fan of the topic in this story. It felt very outdated and not in a cute, watching Leave it to Beaver, nostalgia way. The obsession with getting married and being a good wife was kinda weird and especially since these books were aimed at teens. This one wasn't the cute feel good love story I had wanted, unfortunately. I didn't hate it and there were some lovely moments in the story but I also wouldn't recommend this one either.
What's a girl to do when her sister announces she's getting married in a matter of weeks, and suddenly you're "just" the sister of the bride? A fun look at both wedding insanity and the trials and tribulations of being 16 to your sister's bridal glory, Barbara has many universal struggles and thoughts - girls of all ages can relate, and those of us far beyond HS can rejoice we're not still dealing with that *and* the questions, ha.
How strange it must have been to be a teenager in the 60's. Women were becoming more emancipated but there was still a lot of "women's work". I feel sorry for Rosemary being bent into the roll of wife because she is in love so young. I'm glad I finally read this book but I think it no longer YA but JF.
Loved it. Beverly Cleary is a favorite author of mine and this book did not disappoint. Her books are a bit dated (this one was written 55 years ago), but her characters are so endearing and human nature has not changed. She keenly understood the universal (and timeless) angsts and concerns of young people. She still manages to capture my attention and imagination in a way that few authors do.
Wouldn't really recommend for a modern read- the father constantly marginalizes his wife and daughters, and this is portrayed as normal and healthy. Education for women is not portrayed as very important. It is an entertaining read, but it doesn't have a lot to offer a teen today.
One of the four books in the "coming of age" category by Beverly Cleary. Cute, very early 1960's. This one was more about the wedding instead of Barbara's boy troubles or high school. And this girl has a younger brother! My favorite of these books is "The Luckiest Girl".
This book was so cute! I love reading these stories about how life was back then.
A good read
I forget how much I like Beverly Clearly! I used to read these as a kid.
How could I have not read this when I was younger, like I did Jean and Johnny, Fifteen, The Luckiest Girl...but then again, I am not sure I would have enjoyed it then as much as I did now.
Still, when her older sister Rosemary, who is only 18, comes home from college to announce she is marrying a 24-year-old graduate student named Greg, Barbara is enamored of the prospect of this wedding.
Barbara's behavior was more like that of a twelve-year-old than a sixteen-year-old, but I think changes in the world account for that, more than any fault in Beverly Cleary's writing.All in all, I really enjoyed this book, and I liked that it was almost entirely about Barbara's thoughts and feelings, and not just about impressing some boy.
And many of the women in the book work, although it is also unusual enough to be commented on.As an oldest child, I not only didn't identify with Barbara's desire to be like her sister, I also thought it was perhaps a little forced.
It was a sweet book, perfect of course for any younger sister growing up in the shadow of a Rosemary, and the dated aspects to it weren't too many.
The women's clubs like The Amys felt dated until I thought of how similar they are to our book clubs and bunko nights.
Barbara's feelings about marriage are completely teenager-appropriate, and at once less and more mature than her idealistic sister's; Rosemary's views are classic college sophomore, and at once less and more mature than her set-in-their-ways parents'.
When I first read this book at age sixteen or so, I admired the way Cleary illustrated the generation divide between the young people of the '60s, who earnestly romanticize simplicity, and their parents, who were forced into making practical, frugal choices during the Depression and World War II and want bigger and better things for their children.
[We] want a life free of things." The moral of the story is that Beverly Cleary is deeply perceptive and I am my parents.
This was another wonderful book by Cleary, with all the human insights and relatable details that make her writing so enjoyable.Although this is a rather simple story, I feel like there is a lot more to it underneath the surface.
It did seem like Rosemary was rushing into things a little naively, but it was interesting that she was so detached from many elements of the planning—a stark contrast to the over-commercialization of many weddings today.
It sounds like such a pretty spring wedding!
I can also relate to Elinor a bit, but that's another story (I pretty much WAS Elinor when I was 11 or so.
So the last time when I was home and saw this book on my shelf, I grabbed it right away, remembering how charming it was when I was a teenager.I loved Beverly Cleary growing up, and was not let down by this re-read.
When Barbara's 19 year old older sister comes home and announces that she's getting married in the next few months, Barbara begins thinking about her own wedding someday and gets a little ahead of her self.Of course, in 2016, people's first reaction to this 19 year old getting married so young and so quickly is "oh, she must be pregnant".
But this book was written at a different time, when people frequently got married earlier.
16 year old barbara is excited when older sister rosemary (18!) decides to get married, but planning a wedding puts the house into upheaval, and barbara can't help but wonder when her turn will come.
i like that cleary points out that a marriage is all about the couple's love for each other and doesn't have to look like anyone's traditional idea of a wedding.
at the same time, rosemary also scoffs at the idea of a man asking a woman's father's permission to propose marriage, and barbara throw's bill cunningham's shirt in his face when he asks her to mend it.
An enjoyable enough book by another of my favorite childhood authors, about a 16-year-old girl whose 18-year-old sister is getting married.
I've been a sister of the bride, but I am the older sister and neither of us were young when she got married.
I've never been a bridesmaid, never got all excited and fussy and sentimental over wedding preparations (at the wedding, sure, but this part of the story was kind of rushed through).
It was an enjoyable enough story but very much fluff without any depth to it.
Barbara's sister and other folks involved bicker and fight over aspects of the wedding both trivial and significant, and Barbara herself starts feeling a bit lost in the shuffle, wondering if things will ever go back to normal.Big family events can often be hard for children at a tender age, especially if tensions are high and someone else spends weeks, even months in the spotlight; they may start to feel like no one notices them, and Barbara's experience will be familiar to some of these kids.
As a kid, these books were the only romance novels I could stomach - and due to the lightness of the content, this could easily be children's as well as YA.
Beverly Cleary does a great job of keeping the characters realistic; Cleary doses her novels with reality and doesn't fall into the worst cliche of all in romances - everyone gets their happy ever after.
I do remember this novel being a little slower than the preceding three (Fifteen was always my favorite and, I think, the most well-developed).Great for readers who are ready to make the transition from children's books to YA (I haven't read it as an adult, but I'm sure older readers would find the morals less powerful and the plot more stereotyped).
This is a sweet story about 16 year-old Barbara who learns that her older sister, Rosemary, is engaged.
The family is a little surprised especially since Rosemary is only 18 and still in her freshman year at Berkeley.
As the family prepares for the wedding, Barbara's romantic views contrast with her practical-minded sister.
Barbara is worried that her sister will indeed just wear a suit for her wedding (which will be handed down to her when she gets married) and will not have any bridesmaids, and Barbara really wants to be a bridesmaid.
Sister of the Bride is a cute story, a fun read, and I think a 9-10 year-old girl would also like reading.
I wanted to read it again as an adult to get a different perspective.
It was interesting to see Barbie's growth from wanting to get married just like her sister, to realizing that there were more options out there for her than just getting married.
Ms. Cleary did a wonderful job of subtly allowing the main character and her sister to buck the establishment with some of their "ideas." This is a book that is still worth reading for young girls if for no other reason than to give them a sense of appreciation for all that today's world offers them compared to the young girls of the 1960's.
