https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1237398.One_Piece
This was such a fun time! I LOOOOOVE pirates in general, so I had a great time reading this. And Luffy is so ridiculous and funny so that's a plus.
For me, One Piece is best Manga ever written.
The story always touch my heart, it is a combination of faithful friendship, laughter, loyalty and action.Some people might find this manga as silly and pointless (I’ve heard this before) but they never truly read the Manga and therefore judging it simply from the cover.
I’ve been in that position too…and thank God I finally looked beyond the cover and found the greatest adventure any Mangaka ever written.More about One Piece at my blog http://bokunosekai.wordpress.com/cate...Annual One Piece Reread 2010 > http://bokunosekai.wordpress.com/2010...Annual One Piece Reread 2011 > http://bokunosekai.wordpress.com/2011...Annual One Piece Reread 2012 http://bokunosekai.wordpress.com/2012...
I wrote the review for the whole One Piece manga not only for volume one.
If you read the manga, you will see how every character, mainly the protagonist have very compelling and charismatic personality.
Luffy is the captain, a happy go lucky person who sometimes act stupid (along with Ussop,Chopper and Franky) but very responsible towards his nakama.
The One Piece World is very diverse, with unique creature and stronger enemies as the level going up.
The incredible detail and meticulous (hands off to Oda) about every part of it, the world government, the sichibukai, the pirate and even for the additional character.
The beginning of one of the most epic manga stories ever. I gave only 4 star for first volume because the world has not much revealed. But on next volumes you could see the fantasy world of One Piece is rich, fresh, and populated with many interesting characters.
The world of pirates seems pretty awesome when you are a kid! No rules and parents, just treasure hunts and palm trees and lots of laughter and maybe a colorful parrot on your shoulder - that's the life!! The genius of One Piece is that it perfectly captures these childhood fantasies, turning them into a rollicking adventure that is anchored by relatable characters while bubbling over with fun and enthusiasm. It is no surprise at all that One Piece has been one of the world's best-selling comic-book titles for years - great stuff!
I've said before it's franchises like Naruto and Yu Gi Oh that form what most westerners conceive to be the whole of manga-- which is a problem, because as long as manga is seen as just a teen fad, some amazing works of comic art and literature are being completely overlooked by a large audience that might otherwise devour them.
Like any popular manga running in a weekly magazine, there's times you can tell Eiichiro and his assistants are rushing to get those 18 pages done.
But when Eiichiro and his guys are firing on all cylinders, this is the comic that justifies Jump's existence.
The amount of work and dedication that goes into every page of One Piece is something special and makes you respect Oda as an amazing artist & mind.I have been following this series for the last 14 years and I can say with confidence that One Piece is one of the few long running mangas where there are hardly if not any story faults/gaffes/plots holes.
Oda tends to keep a lot of secrets to keep you guessing and speculating, which is fun at start but after 14 years you do get a bit angry.
I started loosing hope and i completetly lost track of it for some years but all this time i've never stopped being attached to it.
I started reading the manga later on and there are some minor things in there that are different from the anime but it is 100% the same story.
This is the first volume and it contains chapters 1-8.
It also contains all the feels and all the nostalgia.
Beautiful story, amazing characters.
If you like manga and anime, read or watch this, or do both.
ONE PIECE ROCKS <3**I keep rereading this and how can i possibly express how much i love it?**
I have to mention that I was reading this volume online through some not-so-official sources (don't judge me), and I had a fully-coloured version — I'm not sure if this version is officially available in english, but oh boy, the colour really suits this manga.
Other than that, the book looks absolutely delightful, just like a good adventure comic should.Overall, I was really pleasantly surprised by the first volume of One Piece.
I know it's impossible to judge such a massive series just by one volume out of 89 (!!), but I sure am willing to read more.
One Piece is the best selling manga of all time.
But a large majority of my GR friends don't read manga, even among the comic readers, or at least don't review it here if they do.
People are greedy, so the Great Pirate Era begins.Skipping ahead a decade or so finds us following the young boy Luffy, who wants to be a pirate more than anything, despite not being able to swim.
Skip forward another decade and we have Luffy as a young man, still determined to be King of the Pirates!
I already feel so invested in Luffy. He is so quirky and awesome. I can't wait to continue his story!
The only problem is Luffy is too young to join Red-Haired Captain Shanks's crew and he can't swim!
He has no abilities at navigation and just lets the sea take him on a series of adventures where he hopes to build a crew and find the "One Piece" treasure.I loved Luffy's character!
Captain Shanks realizes this, even seeing a bit of his younger self in the young Luffy.
This is a manga I will definitely continue reading, and there are a LOT OF VOLUMES to keep me busy for some time to come.
Hmmm...This has got to be the ugliest manga art I've ever seen.
I really, really, really don't like this style and I knew that going in because I've seen caps from the anime.
It's over the top and unpleasant and cluttered and sort of makes my eyes ache to look at it.and yetthere is something about the story.
It's absurd and banal at worst, silly at best, but I guess it has potential.
It just makes the characters sound stupid) and I'm not crazy about the writing quality, but I'd pick up another volume.
I guess.
I mean, One Piece is hilarious and epic. It doesn't get much better than that. I see the hype and Oda's brilliant series deserves every bit of it and more. But I refuse to rate every single volume of One Piece. I like to think I have a life. So, uhm, just  read One Piece. One Piece is awesome.
IT IS THE BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT
YES YES! I TOTALLY DIDN'T EXPECT TO LOVE THIS BUT IT ABSOLUTELY SURPRISED ME!
I've never had the chance to check out Luffy in action back in high school, but the popularity of One Piece was undeniable.
I'm still a bit surprised that it's still an ongoing series too!I have to admit that there are some pretty subtle similarities with Naruto, yet it still remains its own thing.
Somehow he has a nose for those good guys, and he always finds himself at the right spot at the right time.I look forward to seeing what insane things he's bound to accomplish or encounter.Yours truly,Lashaan | Blogger and Book ReviewerOfficial blog: https://bookidote.com/
A manga that is a silly and rollicking pirate story that reminds you of every (boy) adventure story you liked as a kid. Over the top, funny, inventive. One of the most beloved and best selling and longest running manga series of all time. I didn't love it, a little too goofy for me, so it's about a 3.5 for me, maybe that high because it is good and energetic and I get why half the world loves it, but that low because it's just not my favorite style in form or content.
and One Piece is a great piece of creation, one of the longest and oldest, the oldest one being, as far as I know, Dokaben, still in publication since 1972...The humor is good, but I'm finding the artwork a bit "lound and eccentric", and it seems every guy has literally a "big mouth" and a "big smile"...I guess it's Oda's style of bringing out more humor and life and emotions, and somehow the facial expressions and artwork in the humorous parts reminds me of cartoons..."Cartoon-ish" or not, the emotional parts felt well-delivered.And I agree- Luffy's smile really is kinda touching, and alive within the artwork that comes forth with such vitality that you really can't find it odd...And he's the cutest, in this volume; looks like he's gonna grow old slowly...I'm sure I'll get used to the artwork...In between chapters and volumes, there are little notes on piracy and inception of Oda's career as a manga artist, also how he came to find the characters and idea of the One Piece as we know it today, and how to draw pirate flags!
The author, Eiicho Oda, created, One Piece, because as a kid Oda was interested in pirates and being a manga book artist/writer.
At the age of 19, he looked back on all his work and decided to create, One Piece, which included some of the main characters from his previous works.
For example, the main character Luffy has a silly nature.
When described as a hero, Luffy states, "We're pirates you know!
Luffy is a child-like character whose dream is to have an adventure and be free.
The greatest strength of the book is the storyline and characters.
So many tears have falling down since i read or watch this series.
I cried (a little) when i read Robin Neechan's story of Ohara.
I cried when Mr. 2 sacrificed himself for Luffy in Impel Down.
That's the reason why i don't want to watch the anime for so long.
I don't even cried this much when i watched Korean-tear-jerker-drama.
And at that time he also parted with his nakama, so no one there who could give him hug and say to him that everything would gonna be alright.
I could feel how hurt his nakama too, when they heard Luffy has lost his beloved brother in Marine Ford.
The manga is about one boy who will change and rule the entire world.Pirates King (Roger) lets everybody know about his treasure which is called ONE PIECE and he hides it in the grand line before he is executed by the hand of a Navy organization ruled by bad people.
Twenty two years later, a young man(Luffy)starts his adventure journey to look for the treasure and to become the pirate king.
He starts to search for a ship and crew for his journey.
It will let your imagination live in dreams of fantasy, it will raise your sprit up all of the time.
mükemmel bir manga daha.. korsanlar kralı olmaya çalışan Luffy yi anlatıyor hem macera hem komedi ya :Dtamamı ne zaman çevrilir Allah bilir keşke bunları da Death Note kadar hızlı çevirseler :))
Awesomeness overloaded :):):):):):):)
I am probably gonna give every volume 5 stars.Because One Piece is one of the greatest adventure stories ever.I started it 12 years ago and since then...well, you can imagine...Eiichiro Oda never fails to come up with new exciting adventures for Luffy and co., and don't even get me started on the Straw Hat pirates...To cut the long story short, One Piece is a masterpiece!
On the outside, it may look like a six year old's story, but the story has themes like racism, dictatorship, death, loss, sacrifice, and possibly bondage in a certain charscter's life, but these themes are displayed in such a way that even kids can watch/read this.
I'm just too macho :D)Seriously, what else can do that?It may seem long, and catching up is quite the challenge, but One Piece is totally worth it.Still my numero uno favorite anime/manga, and probably will always be.Spoiler below in the form of a theory (don't read unless you've caught up):||||V (this is supposed to be an arrow btw.)I have a theory that Nami and Luffy are actually siblings.I mean think about it.
Here we go: 913 chapters and running. I’m really curious how long it’s going to take for me to catch up. Let’s go, man.
Entah kapan terakhir kali aku baca komik ...
'keanehan'!!
gag salah lagi,, banyak hal aneh yang kutemui di komik,, tapi jangan salah,, 'aneh' yang kumaksud di sini adalah sesuatu yang sangat tipikal dan gag bisa dijelaskan kecuali dinikmati dengan membacanya,, dan yang jelas sensasi seperti itu gag akan kudapatkan saat baca novel,, se'aneh' apa pun novel itu,, jadi jangan samakan 'aneh' di sini dengan definisi aneh yang kalian tahu,, sekarang,,aku menuntut pertanggungjawaban temanku yang ngotot ngenalin aku dengan komik,, juga Eiichiro Oda Senshei,, agaknya,,aku pun jadi maniak komik sekarang,,
#Program BUBUPertama kali dibeli dan dibaca pada bulan November 2002.Yesss, akhirnya aku menemukan satu set lengkap dari nomor 1 - 59, untuk menggantikan set One Piece-ku yang menguap tanpa sisa!Ini salah satu serial komik favoritku yang wajib kubeli ulang. Dan, ya... tentu saja kalau dibeli ulang juga wajib dibaca ulang :D
Awesome start to an awesome series. I ADORED this earlier art style so much so that I can't get over the fact that it's changed exponentially. It's like 'I don't even know who you are anymore' kind of feeling as the seires goes on. LOL
Oda is really a genius mangaka. One Piece is one of those masterpieces that will continue to be an all-time- favorite.
I want to to say Oda is amazing. The story and art are gifts to the reader. Iove the pirate concept. It totally adds frivolity to the story in a good way. I will elaborate later after work. I just finished this manga at lunch. :-)
The chapters are short which makes it really easy to read.
However, this also doesn't allow too much to actually be developed in each chapter.
There were some character backstories in this volume that were over in the blink of an eye.
I feel like as the story grows, so will the characters and even though this is a HUGE series, I'm excited to read the rest.Books and Ladders | Queen of the Bookshelves | Books Are My Fandom | Twitter | Instagram | Bloglovin'
I have to remind myself not to breeze through the pages and to take in each panel because it really is something pretty special to look at.This first volume has Luffy meet up with his first member of his pirate crew, Roronoa Zolo.
The characters are crazy and look great on the page - just a tease, really, as to what is coming in the further volumes.But it's a tease that works and I had a helluva good time reading it.
5 / 5Nada más al iniciar puedes percatarte con facilidad que el destino de esta historia es convertirse en el mejor manga del mundo.
This is my first time reading manga and I really enjoy it, gonna be honest.
Heard lots of good things about this series, now I know why!What's it about:The main character of this story, Luffy, has wanted to be a pirate ever since he was a little kid.
My knowledge of pirates comes from a few movies, history, Alestorm and the episodes I've seen of Black Sails so I'm definitely not an expert but this is a fun one that kinda makes me want to read some more pirate comics perhaps.The art is fantastic and fun.The action is freaking awesome and there's a lot of it.The characters are interesting.
But, the part which captured me the most is the characterization.Eiichiro Oda is good at drawing the readers in through the characters' past and their interaction.
I also like how the Straw Hat crew aren't proclaiming themselves as heros but acknowledging themselves as criminals, even though they had saved many people during their adventures.
Saving hundreds of people was merely a side effect of their actions.I'm not really sure if I make any sense anymore.All the same, One Piece is definitely a series I would recommend.
While his stories aren't overly complicated, and some twists can be seen coming from miles away, the love he has for the setting and characters he's created is extremely evident.
Every characters, from the main cast down to the tiniest bit players is lovingly rendered and characterized - and very few if any are ever thrown away once their part is played.
It has been like a 'must read' in my list.
c) Because my favorites Japanese idols LOVE One Piece.Honestly I barely had an idea about the manga.
I did not know that Luffy had a special ability (he is the "Rubber man", meaning his body is made of rubber, because he ate something that made him like that).
The characters are funny.
Then there is the Lieutenant Morgan, who looks like the villain Bane from 'Batman'.
With the whole "I am going to tell my dad", or "Wait until my dad hears about this", so funny!
AND SO IT BEGINS!!! * sound of intense jungle drumming *One Piece, Vol.1: Romance Dawn is the beginning of what promises to be a grand adventure. The story is very interesting and it keeps me wanting to read more. Also it helps that Luffy is a great character. I loved every chapter in this volume. It is definitely a great read and I look forward to more adventure. The missing star is because of the art that is something to get used to. Overall tho, a great start!
One Piece will probably be forever one of my favourite mangas.
The main plot is really easy to understand: Whoever finds the treasure of Gold Roger, the King of the Pirates, will become the new King.
Luffy is one of the pirates that sailed out in the world in order to find the legendary One Piece.
I can't tell anything because of spoilers, but it really is worth it.
The art may take some time to get used to, but - like I said before -it's worth it.I highly recommend it to everyone, even to those that haven't read any mangas before.
Romance Dawn Arc ☸ 0001 ~ Romance Dawn - L'alba di una grande avventura☸ 0002 ~ Rufy, il ragazzo dal cappello di paglia☸ 0003 ~ Roronoa Zoro, il cacciatore di pirati☸ 0004 ~ Il capitano della Marina Morgan mano d'ascia☸ 0005 ~ Il re dei pirati e il più grande spadaccino☸ 0006 ~ La prima persona☸ 0007 ~ Amici Orange Town Arc (1di3) ☸ 0008 ~ Arriva Nami
Какъв по-добър начин да отбележим 20 годишнината на „One Piece” от ревю на първите седем тома, знаменитото начало на епичната (и комична) сага, издадени на български от „Студио Арт Лайн”! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Hmm dört puan mı versem beş puan mı versem kararsız kaldım ama dört verdim gitti. :D200 küsür sayfa olsa da manga olduğu için bir sayfada beş ya da en fazla altı cümle oluyor,bu yüzden yarım saatte bitti ve beklediğimden iyi çıktı.Fuardan ikinci cildi de alınacak. :D
