https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118344.The_World_In_The_Evening
There's lots of nostalgia and introspection mixed into the writing to give it that unsettling quietness that I can't get over.The story takes place in Hollywood at a glamorous party in which Stephen Monk attends only to see his wife there with another man.
While there, he has an accident and injuries himself seriously enough to need bed rest, which gives him what he's afraid of most: time to think and reminisce.
(No spoilers but Elizabeth could be canonized.) They are all incredibly forgiving of our main character Stephen.
In many ways they are fully-fleshed, but this idealization of their pure hearts made them all seem like different reflections of the same character.
But here, Isherwood never deals with the effect of money on his characters.
I wasn’t expecting Isherwood to be like Forster exactly, but the beautiful hangover I had from reading Forster made me judgmental, so TWITE suffered in comparison.
I felt like so many of Isherwood’s characters were dispensable; they weren’t integral to driving the journey of the book.
That’s the novel I would like to read.
The change in The World In The Evening is that this is the man who has come on in life since the infamous Berlin stories, not such an avid student anymore.
By various contrivances and devices, reminiscence, flashback, letters and postcards, this book proceeds thru the travels of the European expat wandering the world after the continent becomes unsafe.
There is something beyond just the standoffish with this author, that takes the reader along any path he chooses, knowing it is only for the moment, and there will be deeper currents as time goes on.
Lovely moments, appalling emotional outbursts, a wandering scheme.
Isherwood covers a lot of ground here in 301 pages: jealousy, the appropriateness of marriage, Quakerism, Nazi Germany and World War II (it wouldn't be Isherwood without this), Hollywood, New York, Paris, age differences in relationships, gay-straight friendships, homosexual militancy, the value and meaning of literature, mysticism...and there is even more!
The author himself, later in life, went through this same transformation and became widely know for his - at least literary - militancy.I am simply awed at what Isherwood has done in this book.
It's the story of Stephen Monk, a wealthy young man who meanders throughout the world in the company of his wife, Elizabeth Rydal - a celebrated British author - in the early '30s.
As is common with Isherwood, the specter of Hitler's Germany is always operating on the fringes to ground the narrative with a kind of melancholy realism.
What's particularly interesting about Stephen is that, unlike most of Isherwood's narrators, he's more than just a thinly veiled version of the author.
Slightly tedious at times, but mostly like one of those fabulously glamorous movies where Kristin Scott-Thomas and Matthew Goode lounge around with cocktails, ogling both sexes and griping about that beastly war. I enjoyed Isherwood's matter-of-fact treatment of homosexuality; however, I didn't find his narrator to be nearly as interesting as his tragic wife. The women bring this book to life, and as one of the first mentions of camp in 20th century literature, that's how it should be.
Although not my favorite Isherwood novel, it was good enough that I had to give it more stars than a lot of things I have given only three stars to.
I guess the thing that bothered me the most was that he was writing as a straight man.
This is the type of book that is low on plot and long on esoteric, meandering, dialogue that strays off topic, but I guess I will take that over a comic book any day.
A novel about a man in pre-WWII Europe and America who, while bedridden at his Quaker aunt’s house, reflects on his first marriage and the dissolution of his second.
The World in the Evening isn't the kind of book I'm usually draw to.
Especially if, like me, it doesn't sound like your usual fare.I'm delighted that, with this 2013 edition, The World in the Evening might make it onto a few more bookshelves.
This vintage aficionado is pleased.I'm less pleased, however, that on randomly flipping through this edition I found a typo on page 134.
I was reminded in many ways of two related novels of Edith Wharton ('The Gods Arrive' and 'Hudson River Bracketed') in which the author divides herself into a pair of lovers struggling with their art and their love for each other.
Isherwood has done much the same here, although the writer judges his art more harshly in this novel than Wharton did in her own.Isherwood's treatment of the bisexuality of the main character is refreshing in that it is not a metaphor for gay life.
The novel illustrates the importance of paying attention to the lives around us, how they intersect with our own and change us whether we are ready for it or not.
If there is one author I have read that I feel truly understands the human condition and is thoughtful and lucid enough to write and perhaps teach others about it, it's Christopher Isherwood.
I do not believe you can write about such a complex topic without possessing some incredible clarity, and in this world where many people prefer to take things at face value because it means much less effort and brain power on their part, Isherwood's works are a guiding light for those who wish to care and learn much more.
I've always preferred Christopher Isherwood's non-fiction (memoirs especially) to his fiction.
The main character is obviously Isherwood in the guise of a mostly heterosexual man of means who seems incapable of living on his own.
Yet his eyes occasionally stray to a good looking man...Though it reads well, the book is too introspective and sentimental.
The main character seems incapable of thinking past his own wants and needs though he does have glimpses of what it must be like to be selfless.
It looks good and is entertaining enough, but in the end it doesn't have much to say.
For Isherwood completists.
A novel about a man in pre-WWII Europe and America who, while bedridden at his Quaker aunt’s house, reflects on his first marriage and the dissolution of his second.Full review at Another Look BookReminded me of:- Hollywood movies from the ’30s and ’40s- Virginia Woolf (Orlando)- Francoise Sagan (Bonjour Tristesse)
Isherwood's talent for explicating emotional intelligence is on full display here, and most of the main characters are devastatingly real. Larger moral and political questions dealing with pacifism, social responsibility, and the relation of camp to religiosity, are seamlessly incorporated into the story as well. The only reason this doesn't get a full five stars is that the book drags towards the end, giving far too much space to a couple of love triangles about which I wasn't especially interested. Overall, though, a thoroughly worthwhile read.
I've spent the past day trying to formulate into words exactly what I enjoyed so much about The World in the Evening, but it feels like my enjoyment defies explanation or logical analysis, so let me put it this way: I did not enjoy reading A Single Man because it was supposed to be 100 pages of this guy's supposedly profound daily life, but instead felt like 500 pages of George taking a shit or talking to random dudes at the gym*.
The World in the Evening, on the other hand, was 300 pages of kind-of Isherwood/ Stephen reminiscing on his mundane life as a husband while lying in bed wearing a rotting cast that felt like a warm, whimsical, winding bedtime story that my mom was telling me from memory.
And indeed it does: a somewhat idealised portrait, perhaps, but the character of Sarah, who is a Quaker and a significant influence on both the plot and Stephen, the lead character, is an interesting one.
It also deals with other themes: sexuality, pacifism, responses to the war (it's set mainly in Europe and America in the ten years or so up to 1941), and some meta issues about what a novel can deal with.
In the latter particularly, the Quakers serve as a foil: very few characters become pacifists, but the presence of a few pacifists opens up a discursive space in which the novelist can explore why so few of his characters take that path.
An achingly tender novel about love, loss, and the fading stains of selfishness. Isherwood’s characters never seem to be fully right or wrong, always fixated on the lingering effects of living in-between.
A delicious, interesting read weaving together the past and present of the book. It doesn't feel as whole hearted as some of Isherwood's novels. The character of Elizabeth can get annoying at times, but it's still a deep and rewarding read.
A chore to finish. There are gems in the dialogue and letters, but the background-building and often long detours made by lost characters were very slow and excruciating.
Once you strip away all the rhetoric that surrounds the arguments of fiction’s most cynical objectors, you find that, for the most serious critics, there is simply a sense of unease that in a world plagued by suffering, the luxury that is good fiction should exist (and put dinner on a host of academics’ tables.) Isherwood is troubled by this, too, and so are his characters, but the book is proof of its own worth, not only for its pleasures but for the marvelous way it extends the reader’s sympathies.Set in 1941, the book’s action largely takes place through the narrator’s memories of the interwar period and his first marriage.
In this new milieu of body casts and long, empty days of convalescence, Monk untangles his life for the reader (often by way of letters he has saved): he flashes back to the life with his first wife, Elizabeth, a famous author, older than Stephen by twelve years, and how she dies.
The disease is trying to paralyze you into complete inaction, so it makes you drop your own work and attempt to fight it in some apparently practical way, which is unpractical for you because you aren’t equipped for it—and so you end frustrated and doing nothing” (171).
The World in the Evening is a sleeper hit, amongst Isherwood's other, celebrated novels.
Immediately before reading The World in the Evening, I read Goodbye To Berlin and Mr. Norris Changes Trains, Isherwood's famous early novels about his time in Berlin.
Juxtaposed to these early novels, The World in the Evening has a maturity, a subtlety, and an emotionality that are not present in Isherwood's earlier novels.
The novel really revolves around the main character, Stephen's, internal dialogues with his dead ex-wife, Elizabeth.
Typical for Isherwood's later period writings, there is a subtle but courageous refusal to downplay non-normative sexual relationships.
I thoroughly enjoyed this relatively short novel, which gives the sense of a long span of time in the developing maturity of the main character, Stephen Monk.
Much of the reflection is supported by Monk's savored reading of letters written by his deceased wife, which he had gathered and set aside for himself to read at a future time...and that time finally arrived.
It's a slow and quiet recounting of the first half of his life and an interior observation and reckoning of his own character and motivations.
There are aspects of this novel that I think reveal this fact of the author's life, especially a passage during Monk's convalescence from an accident.
I loved being drawn into the world of Stephen Monk, in the company of good-hearted but troubled people.
It is impossible for me to write about the World in the Evening without talking about the way homosexuality is dealt with in the book.
Being gay is left for the quirkier minor characters.
The characters difficulty of facing queerness is left unresolved.
Maybe it is this lack of final judgment or firm stance on the matter that has made this a difficult review for me to write, but it is ultimately also what makes The World in the Evening such an interesting book.
I didn't like the first 60 pages at all and I thought, why was this book recommended to me?
I loved her letters.
I think this book is one of the best I've read about the writing process.
It felt natural and honest and true and I believed every word of it--and not just because I have felt personally the same way at times.I also loved how Isherwood moved back and forth through time, sometimes using the letters, sometimes not.
A beautifully written book that just flows along, thankfully just enough breaks so I don't miss my station.
But once started he is sure to get around to that.Ignore the blurb on the book, he is not haunted by his relationship with Another man, he is haunted by his treatment of his wives were he has basically lied to himself nearly constantly, the homosexual part of the affair is not really the issue.
And ebaring in mind it was written then there is no torrid detail so don't pick up the book if it is that you are after.
I thought once I got into this book it would be okay, but even to the end of the book, I found passages like this one just not interesting or believable: "It was then, suddenly and for the merest fraction of an instant, that I saw, or thought I saw, what Gerda had seen.
There was something about the smiling little woman, at that moment; something that wasn't the Sarah I'd known.
That wasn't Sarah at all.
The look in her eyes wasn't hers.
I had an uncanny feeling-it was very close to fear-that I was somehow 'in the presence'- but of what?"Really!

I'm coming close to finishing Isherwood's fiction (I've only two left before I've read all the novels), and I have to say, though this one isn't my favorite, it's been enjoyable for strange reasons.
But once Elizabeth came into the book and I realized the book was a veiled portrait of he and Don's relationship, the book finally clicked into place.
The middle section that tracks through Elizabeth's letters is the strongest portion of the book, and frankly the last 20 pages felt unnecessary (I was satisfied with Stephen's letter to Jane).
Anyone who's never read Isherwood before, not so much.
This is the first Isherwood book I have read.
It is a hauntingly beautiful exploration of upperclass life in pre war Europe and America during WW2.
An accident leaves Stephen Monk bedridden in a Quaker household in Pennsylvania at the beginning of WW2.
During his recuperation, Monk reflects on his life and relationships with women and men.
Young people should read the book to understand the depth of prejudice against homosexuals in the 20th century.
The book also provides insight into the Quaker community world during a world war.
Isherwood's other books will be added to my to read list.
Personally I enjoyed the book and was entranced with the way Christopher Isherwood wrote the story.
The words were vivid and the thoughts that were lurking in the mind of Stephen Monk was profound.
The story is slow in the sense of growing with the character and may not be for someone who is seeking for action or suspension in the form of excitement.
Instead of suspension I got curious and wanting to know how the story will unfold, not minding the pace it was unfolding.
You deal with Quakers, wives, and trivial moments which made the story come alive.
