https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9723.Obasan
The Government makes paper airplanes out of our lives and flies us out the windows. Some people return home. Some do not. War they all say, is war, and some people survive. Out of all the countries in the world, Canada is the one I have most seriously considered for emigration purposes. The stereotypes Americans have for that northern border are notorious; kind, peaceful, oh so funny with their maple syrup and their Mounties, Mounties being a nickname for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, shor
I will lay it out as how it was told to me within this book; how the Japanese were exiled from their homes, how they had the choice of shoddy internment camps or the long voyage back to Japan, how their belongings were sold and their families torn to pieces and Canada methodically gouged out its heart and sloppily stitched it up, with boats and beets and hydrogen bombs.
We come from the country that plucks its people out like weeds and flings them into the roadside.
We come from Canada, this land that is like every land, filled with the wise, the fearful, the compassionate, the corrupt.
Naomi, the narrator, has suppressed her own memories, she feels with Obasan, but gradually she lets them come back, she answers the offering of Emily's story with her own, which is Obasan's; it is the story of all Japanese people in Canada, first, second, or third generation, at the time of WWII.
They survived, and they are grateful.Joy Kogawa shows us some of the ways racism affects Naomi's sense of self:In one of Stephen's books, there is a story of a child with long golden ringlets called Goldilocks who one day comes to a quaint house in the woods lived in by a family of bears.
a story about a japanese family who lived in canada during wwii..
i heard stories about the time that japan ruled over korea from my grandparents..
i learned about wwii from history classes..
but when i read this book, everything changed..
not only it changed my view on japan and america but also on good and evil..
most people associate japan during WWII with evil..
we were the good guys..
but what many people don't think about is the stories of the people in the shadow..
just because they were japanese..
the story is absolutely unforgettable and haunting
Being to young to fully understand what's going on, Naomi watches silently as the place she once called home (Vancouver, Canada) rejects her as first Canadian, then human.
I'm sure many of us have been through some life experience that hushed our voice for a time, many go through it every day.
Her distance from the horrors was Kogawa's way to tell the reader that even those who are young, unrelated, or distant from the issue are affected by it.There were some issues that I had with the book because I did wish it gave more detail to the actual events that occurred in the Internment Camps.
Obasan is narrated by Naomi, a sheltered and pampered child who is five years old when her life is drastically changed by the events at Pearl Harbor and the Second World War. As a Japanese Canadian, Naomi is separated from her parents, persecuted and eventually placed in an internment camp - common practice in Canada during WWII.
“If all this sounds like a bird’s-eye view to you, Nesan, it’s the reportage of a caged bird.
We’re like a bunch of rabbits being chased by hounds.” {pg.
107}The one bright spot in Naomi's life is her Aunt Obasan, her protector and caregiver after she is separated from her parents.
A bit too light and wispy? Our narrator is very fond of looking at the scenery and only shyly alluding to the human rights abuses going on all around her.But ... crucial reading ... I'd liked to hope Japanese internment was only a mad USA thing. Canada! Part of the Empire! Bloody hell.
The speech that frees comes forth from that amniotic deep.
To attend its voice, I can hear it say, is to embrace its absence.
The word is stone.I admit it.I hate the stillness.
I hate the stone.
I hate the staring into the night.
The sky swallowing the echoes.Unless the stone bursts with telling, unless the seed flowers with speech, there is in my life no living word.
They are hailstones seeking an underground stream.If I could follow the stream down and down to the hidden voice, would I come at last to the freeing word?
But more often than not, I sat silently, awash in the stark and simple beauty of Kogawa's prose, numb with sorrow too great for tears or shaking with anger at the wrongs my country, my government committed against the Nisei, against people more Canadian than Canada, more Canadian than the politicians that legislated their gross abuse.Obasan is achingly beautiful, but it is more than that, it is the most important, the most necessary book a Canadian has ever written.
I learned of the residential schools in High School, we talk of the atrocities we committed and continue to commit towards our First Nations brothers and sisters, but even today, Kogawa's story is the great and untold history of our time.
Jeeeeesus christ.I'd never heard of this book before having to read it for the Intro to Literature class I'm TAing for this term.
Not sure how, actually, because turns out it's a Canadian classic (I'll blame it on my Quebec upbringing), and with good reason: it's important, but not only that, it's good.
It takes the Japanese-Canadian narrative in World War II (in all its mindblowing horror), and renders it emotionally and, at times, quite poetically.
It's a heartbreaking book, particularly when you realize the story isn't going to end without visiting the other side of the Pacific.3.5 stars, and recommended CanLit reading.
I really wanted my students to learn about this era in history, and so many other teachers had recommended it, so I went ahead and assigned it as summer reading before I actually read it. That summer, I picked it up time and time again, trying to force my way through it. It was so boring that I decided to contact my students and tell them not to worry about reading it. They were all happy -- they couldn't read more than a page at a time, either.
And that's an understatement.I am embarrassed to say that I never thought about what happened to German and Japanese people in the allied countries during the war.
Because Obasan is not just about Japanese people in WWII, but about Canadians.
Like I said: this happened to Canadian-born people.
And it did not happen to German-born Germans!Of course it was not only their loyalty to Canada but also their cultural background that made the Canadian-Japanese do what their country asked of them:It is always so.
Every Canadian kid should read this book in high school!What is done, Aunt Emily, is done, is it not?
One of the worst books I have ever read. The pace is unbearably slow. Chapter 14, comprised solely of letters, made me want to throw the book out the window. Unfortunately, I was forced to read this for my English class and could not do so. The author was entirely focused on attempted symbolism and metaphor that was dull and did not aid in the plot whatsoever. The topic could have been presented in a way that was emotional and touching, however, the author has caused me nothing but irritation.
More of a 3.5Was a good book, but I feel like some parts were too full of metaphors/similies. I really liked the bits with Aunt Emily.
This caused an uproar among the remaining people of Japanese descent, and the book includes a collection of letters written from Nomi's Aunt Emily to Nomi's mother, who has been sent back to Japan.
However, this is where we first get the full picture of what is happening in Canada - Nomi is only 4 years old when this happens and she is doing her best to understand why her family is broken apart and homeless, but obviously has a lot of areas of confusion, even with the help of hindsight.Aunt Emily talks about how she is shocked that the international community isn't stepping in to stop Canada's actions in exiling the Japanese Canadians, how what is happening in Canada is exactly what the Nazis are doing and what Canada and America are supposedly fighting against.
Obasan is a story about Japanese-Canadians during WWII told from the point of view of a young Japanese-Canadian girl from Vancouver whose family's life and future is torn apart by the Canadian interment policies for that time.It is a story that has not been openly discussed within Canadian history classes as it in juxtaposition to how we view ourselves during times of war.
We are not the type of nation to steal what is not ours from those who are not 'us'.The story is heart wrenching and hard to swallow as a Canadian.
We take pride in being the amicable, easy going Canadians.
Kogawa is clearly a poet, which is vital to the telling of this narrative because the horrors faced by these Japanese-Canadian characters cannot be expressed in simple prose.
I read this novel while teaching Postcolonial Women's Novels, and what strikes me about this book is how ardently the characters claim their Canadian identity over their Japanese identity.
A very different postcolonial perspective than the novels I'm teaching now.But more importantly than any of that, this novel moved me to the core and taught me about a history that I new very little about.
This is the first time I've read Obasan, a novel that is heart-wrenching in the pain it depicts and all the things it doesn't say.
It is shocking and devastating to read of the pain that existed in my own country during the war and that was continued purposefully for so many years afterwards by a government fuelled by racist fears.
For me, this book is a reminder of the need to maintain the rights of all, especially minorities in Canada.
But it is also a compelling and poetic examination of silence and stories and the need for words to express even the most painful realities.
Obasan is a fascinating look into the lives and experiences of a Japanese-Canadian family from the perspective of an adult family member who was born and raised in Canada.
Through this novel, the reader discovers what might be to some a surprising aspect of Canada's past: our attempt to remove all Asian immigrants from Canada after Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor.This is the only book that has ever made me cry.
I was genuinely caught off guard by the sheer devastation described in the last few pages of the novel.
Juxtaposed with the passive, complacent attitudes depicted throughout the rest of the novel, it completely overwhelmed me.
I highly recommend this book.
When I was taking a graduate exam, I felt hopeless because I was unfamiliar with any of the assigned excerpts.
But then I find the one titled Obasan and guessed that must be about Japanese immigrants.
So that saved my MA degree, and I determined to read the book some time later.
It took me 3 years to finally get to read the book, and all I can say is ”Depressing.” Grief seeps through every line.
I didn't know that Canada inhumanly discriminated and oppressed Japanese Canadians during the war.
Everyone should read the book and listen to its repressed voice of history.
What can I say? Quietly and unassumingly profound. Heart wrenching.. One to read
This is a beautifully written novel that takes me to a time in our country’s history that I otherwise would have never been able to imagine.
The story is told through the eyes of Naomi, a kindergarten-aged child, as she struggles to understand the loss of her parents (father was a doctor) and grandparents [as well as her encounter with a pedophiliac neighbor before the war], as her aunt (and later uncle) and neighbors are relocated to Slocum.
She is forced to live in a small home nestled near a mountainside, but at least they still have a community.
After the war this community is destroyed and dispersed, and (as if they are being punished for their heritage) they are forced to labor on a beet farm (“perhaps some genealogist [sic?] of the future will come across this patch of bones and wonder why so many fishermen died on the prairies.”).
Next to Surfacing and In the Skin of a Lion, Obasan belongs to a group of novels I had to read for a course on Canadian literature, which is why – having reviewed the other two books – I’d like to spend some thought on Kogawa’s novel as well!Megumi Naomi Nakane, the protagonist and narrator, has Japanese ancestors, but has spent most of her life in Canada.
When Naomi receives a box from Emily, she starts to think about the past, the destiny of her family during WWII, about her mother and the reason why she’s returned to Japan, and about Japanese Canadians in general.Before reading Obasan, I had no idea about the hardships of Japanese immigrants in Canada, and North America in general.
Obasan is an autobiographical novel about the author's experience in a Japanese internment camp during the 1940's in Canada.
I was under the impression that they did not have to forfeit their homes or other belongings, but as in America, leaving homes and possessions behind often meant finding squatters in them and their furniture missing upon their return.What's more, in 1944 President Roosevelt ordered the internment camps closed in the United States, but Kogawa's family and other Japanese interned in Canada were not allowed to leave their camps until 1949.I had mixed feelings about this novel.
The book opens with Naomi as a five year old Japanese-Canadian living in Vancouver with her upper middle class family, her mother having just gone to Japan to visit elderly relatives.
I found it very interesting the Japanese Canadians morphed from the enemies on the coast to respected members of their new communities.The plot is laid out in a very non-linear format and might even be non-sensical if you don't already have a general idea of the treatment of Japanese Canadians during WWII.
Title: ObasanAuthor: Kogawa Joy Had you ever wonder what life it is like being a Japanese Canadian Citizen during the Second World War? An award wining novel written by a Japanese Canadian Citizen will tell you. Kogawa Joy had illustrated detail of traditional Japanese life during the darkest age for the Japanese, the World War II.  If you are a person who interested in Japanese culture like me you will absolutely love this award wining novel. By reading the conversation between the author’s and
Title: ObasanAuthor: Kogawa Joy	Had you ever wonder what life it is like being a Japanese Canadian Citizen during the Second World War?
An award wining novel written by a Japanese Canadian Citizen will tell you.
Kogawa Joy had illustrated detail of traditional Japanese life during the darkest age for the Japanese, the World War II.
If you are a person who interested in Japanese culture like me you will absolutely love this award wining novel.
By reading the conversation between the author’s and her uncle the readers can understand these two unique character’s values.

"A must read for everybody"I was first attracted by its lyrical language, then its revelation and candid portrayal of humanity - abandonment and betrayal overcome by resilience and love.
Obasan opened my eyes to a part of the world history: the story of Canadian Japanese at the time of World War II in Canada.
I love this story - living in this world that we are all modern nomad - Obasan invites you to think about belonging and home, and to treasure the long way that we have come in respecting humanity, and so much more to work hard on in the future.
A standing ovation for Obasan and Joy Kogawa.
Obasan looks at a dark page of Canadian and US history that makes modern-day caucasians uncomfortable - the racist treatment of Japanese-Canadians and Japanese-Americans during WWII. While the treatment of Japanese-Canadians was far, far less abhorent than the Nazi treatment of Jews, the fact that a society of educated intelligent people could so easily accept and participate in racist oppression of their neighbours and fellow citizens is truly distressing. One hopes that modern Canadians would never be susceptible to allowing such oppression again, but...
I don’t know if it was the writing style, which left me often confused about what was going on, or the character Naomi’s (understandable) lack of emotions which kept me from being drawn into the story, but in any case, this didn’t work for me.
I finished it because the history is so important and compelling and heartbreaking.
The letters were actually my favorite part, and I would have better appreciated a book of just the letters.
Most likely this is a case of the right book at the wrong time for me, so I may try it again in the future.
