https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/754478.Itchy_Itchy_Chicken_Pox
Text-to-selfI remember when I had chicken pox.
The itching never stopped, the spots kept appearing, and I couldn't play with anyone.
I remember my mom putting the thick white cream on me and it was never rubbed in all the way (lol).
After the spots went away my mother allowed me to spend the night at my cousins house and she ended up catching the chicken pox next!
I was so anxious to get out of the house I passed them on.
Once I became a teen, I realized that children did not get chicken pox anymore.
This story is about a boy that sees red spots on his face, which makes him realize he has the chicken pox.
The story continues as he looks all over his body and sees these red spots.
In the end, his chicken pox go away and he can go back to school again.I would use this book in a kindergarten or 1st grade classroom.
I can see this book helping students of this age group read better because it's full of easy, rhyming sight words.
I would definitely use this book for rhymes, independent reading, and for incorporating it into a health, literacy, or math lesson.
AR 0.7
Little kids will enjoy having this read to them when they get the chicken pox, or as my kids called it when they were little, chicken "pops."
With this book we could talk about being sick.
It could be used to talk about good health and what to do to stay healthy.
We could talk about washing hands and covering our mouths when we cough.
This book goes through what it’s like to have the chicken pox and what to expect.
We could talk about what will happen when they are sick and miss school.
What they should do if they know they will miss school and then what to expect when they get back.
Like many of us, I don't remember what it was like when I had the chicken pox.
I know that me and my older brother had them together but that is about it.
This isn't exactly the best way to try and remember that but is very cute way.
It is also a good book to read to a child before they get chicken pox so that when it does happen they aren't frightened.
Kids, when the first get sick, tend to be scared, so this is a good way to warn them and get them ready for it.Have fun reading!
I think this would be a very fun book to read with my students! All children will one day be able to relate to this story, as they may all experience or know someone who experiences chicken pox as a child. This book can be used to open up a lesson about what it is, how we get it, what to expect and how to deal with it. We can also use this book for counting.
This book is great for beginning readers but lacks in content. There isn't a lot to be learned from this book. It is very simple. The illustrations are fun however. The boy is covered in itchy chicken pox and the illustarter does a good job of getting that point across. I would recommend this book to any beginning reader or a teacher of kindergarten.
This book is adorable and laughable for all kids, but especially for those who have chicken pox. I wish this book had been around when I was going through this miserable childhood disease. While reading this book it gave me a good laugh because the little boy was going through the long process of being itchy with the chicken pox. This should be in every home!
This book would be perfect for take home reading. When a student is home sick, this may be a good choice to send for encouragement. It can aslo be used in phonics to explain the 'ch' sound. Easy and light read with repetitive vocabulary.
Another easy-to-read book (repetition, etc.). I loved reading this book to my mom because there is a kind of rhyme feel to it. Most younger children can relate to having the chicken pox. Fun but simple illustrations.
This book was a perfect book to read to a 3-5 year old with the chicken pox. The language is catchy and I was forced to read it numerous times over the course of one week. I would highly recommend it.
Although most children get vaccinated and don't really get chicken pox anymore, this is a great book when talking about how sometimes we need to miss school because we are sick. This book also has lots of rhyming words. This book has been recommended for children preschool age to 1st grade.
This book doesn't provide much in the way of information about chicken pox, but it is still an easy and fun read about a boy who is covered all over with chicken pox and how itchy they are and how he can't scratch. Might be fun to read with a child if they get chicken pox.
This book would be really cute to use for a child who has the chicken pox. It will help them to understand what they are going to experience. I enjoyed this book and think it would be great to read to children.
this is a good introduction story, and even has some basic counting in it, but it doesn't tell you very much about chicken pox. everything in it is very simply done, including the pictures, sentences and ideas. I would probably not use this in any classroom setting.
The beauty of this book lies in its language (i.e. itchy itchy I feel twitchy). When it was translated to Arabic it lost some of its beauty.
I read this to my 3 year old and my 7 year old when we were waiting for a prescription at our local health clinic. Everyone laughed out-loud. It was a great read!
The chicken pox were itching for the boy a lot. Every day he got better. Finally, he was so better, and no more chicken pox, and he got to go to school. I like this book.
This book is great for children who may be dealing with chicken pox or have experienced them before. The colorful illustrations and simple words makes this a great book for beginner readers.
This was the first book I read by myself to my parents.
Great book for 1st graders!
megan winter reading 2016, children's book, leveled reader, easy reader, book box 10, chicken pox, first grade
this was a really fun book for me when I was young!
it was a good bokk but had very small words in it but the book was alright!
I learened that it is very imporotant to get your chiken pox shot or else you will get chiken pox!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
This book is great for beginning readers. It is about a little boy with chicken pox. It lacks a deep message for the story, but is great for readers starting out. its simple, with fun pictures.
This is a story about a little boy that has the chicken pox. This book is an easy read and good for beginner readers.
1 copy available
On the pre-k reading list. Read with my 4yo..... copywriter 1992..... doesn't seem applicable to a 4yo in post-immunization 2015.
