https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158416.Immortal_Wife
Another excellent book by Irving Stone who also wrote The Agony and the Ecstacy and Lust for Life. Immortal Wife is biographical historical fiction about the life of Jesse Benton Fremont, writer, and wife of explorer John Fremont. If you are interested in the history of the American west, it's exploration, and the people, you will enjoy this book.
I read this book in high school, and have remembered parts of it ever since.
Yes, the same Fremont who mapped large sweeps of the West, was instrumental in California becoming a state, ran for president as the first Republican and almost won, paved the way for a transcontinental railroad, etc.
Their marriage reminds me in a lot of ways of the Clintons -- two very ambitious people with their eyes on the prize.This is a really painless way to learn your history.
Even better if you're a California history buff, and enjoy learning the amazing story of how this state became what it is today.
It is an interesting book about John & Jessie Fremont.
He was an explorer of the western half of the United States, crossing the Sierra's in the winter of 1844 and living to tell the tale.
This book details their personal and public lives as they live through the tumultuous decades of the 40's, 50's, and 60's.
One thing that struck me about these people is the enormous amounts of traveling they did, from Washington D.C. to St. Louis, and across Panama and on to California, all before railroads.
These people were hardy, and lived the opening of the west.
Another facinating biographical novel. There were two things I really appreciated about this book. One-it explored the inner struggles of a wife trying to maintain her sense of self as a woman, her ambitions and desires while standing by her man, which in this case was incredibly hard to do. Two-it revealed a tantalizing slice of pre-civil war america and the expansion west. Well worth my time to read, and how did they ever do what they did?
Jesse Anne Benton always knew she would marry a man who respected her, and excepted her help in his work. Enter the world of Jesse as her loving husband leads her through termoil, love, hate, expulsion and other things. Definetly one to read!
(Luckily the Mexicans, who out number him, decide to ignore him and retreat.)His action prompts President Polk to promote him to Lieutenant colonel.A few months later in Sonoma on June 14, encouraged by Fremont (who has since resigned from the Army and is working with them) the Americans in California stage the Bear Flag Revolt.
Also in September, Jessie and Lily head to San Francisco via Panama to meet John in California and to begin farming land in the Santa Clara Valley.
Zanimljivo štivo, lagano za čitanje. Volim Stounova dela, no ovo je na mene ostavilo nešto slabiji utisak nego prethodna dva koja pročitah. Verovatno je do mene, ne do njega :)
I marked this one up like my scriptures. Every wife should read it. There a re several times in the story when John Fremont's wife must cnoose her husband over her father. Good read.
I was fascinated by Jessie Benton Fremont and from that time on I said that in my mind my town was named for her not for John.
The fact that it is dated (1944) is also interesting to see how view points change over the years, although Jessie was pretty liberated and that was acceptable to Stone in 1944 and to Fremont in the 1840's.
I don't see a hip hop play coming out of this but I will hold an affectionate spot for Jessie in my town named for her (and John)!
Not Irving Stone's best but an interesting book, if a bit floridly written. As the story of this controversial couple unfolded, it occurred to me that the writing was similar to their lives, high highs and low lows, a dramatic roller-coaster ride. It inspired me to research Jessie Benton Fremont and to realize how many of John Fremont's footsteps still echo in the West.
A lot of Stone's research for Immortal Wife (1944) came from Jessie Benton Fremont's writings as well as a popular biography from her daughter, Elizabeth Fremont.Most of the historical characters in this novel will later be judged as racists by history.
This reviewer happens to be part Native American, so I was prepared to chuck the book across the room when I discovered her views on manifest destiny.But Stone manages to not only make the characters engaging and complex, but also makes a detailed portrait of a little known time in American history.About Jessie Benton FremontJessie was the favourite child of Senator Thomas Benton.
I'm a huge fan of biographies (although I think it's technically historical fiction).
I wasn't thrilled at first that's it's about a woman, written by a man; but the author came through with a strong image of this woman.
The story of Jessie Benton Fremont (1800s), the daughter of a senator (THomas Hart Benton, and the wife and partner of John Fremont (a topographer and eventual politician who helped found the Republican party and actually ran for PResident the term before Lincoln.) It includes accurate American history, the life of a woman of privilege choosing to "stick by her man" when it means traveling overland, while pregnant, before the Panama canal, in order to get to California (which wasn't a state as yet).
She was a brilliant woman -- a great read!
Actually, I didn't finish this book. Having read several of Irving Stone's other biographical novels, I began this one with great anticipation. However, after getting more than 50% through it, I couldn't take any more of the sadness, hardship, and demoralizing experiences of the Fremonts. I know that hard times hit us all, but I don't have to trudge through a book I'm not enjoying. Stone is true to his style -- facts well researched, beautiful writing, elegant characterizations. This one just wasn't one I could finish.
This book was the classic "don't judge a book by its cover" experience for me.
I borrowed a copy from a friend and the cover was a picture that looked like it was straight off of a steamy romance novel.
I had a hard time convincing my husband that it wasn't at all about that.
I enjoyed the strength of the main character Jessie and her devotion to her husband and her marriage.
In our book group, we had an interesting discussion on how Jessie viewed her marriage and how her views affected her actions.
Wow! It turns out I've read two books by this author. I read this book years before I ever heard of the author. I didn't like it. It was a good story, and a good history. However I felt like we only saw the good side of Jessie, and none of her faults. People have multiple sides to them. This book was more a praise and worship of the Immortal Wife of a senator, it made her seam unrealistic, non-human, and I began to resent her.
Excellent! Exciting, deeply emotional. Not just a woman's book, for it details the lives of both husband and wife, who had an extraordinary relationship, especially for the nineteenth century! After reading Lust for Life, The Agony and the Ecstasy, and Immortal Wife, Irving Stone has become on of my favorite authors.
This is an inspiring biographical novel about the self-sacrificing life of the wife of John Fremont, Jesse Ann Benton. Set in the pre Civil War west, she and her marriage faced insurmountable hardships. This woman new herself and her calling both individually and as the wife of a man who made great impact on America and the world. I was engrossed in this story!
This was no where as good as THE PRESIDENT'S WIFE. Stone tried to cover too much too quickly. A woman's book in my opinion Too much about the feelings of the people, etc. The important parts were covered in a paragraph sometimes , Just skimmed over. MORE FICTION THAN FACT IN MY OPINION. Author just wanted to sell his book. I am done with Mr. Stone's works.
I gave up...too many other books in my stack and this one has a preachy quality (about what a good wife/marriage ought to be) that kept putting me off. I'm passing this on to my sister (it is inscribed to both of us by the author who visited our home in Prague).
For the fans of historical novels this book is a must read. Not only does Immortal Wife give the reader insight into the life and character of Jessie Benton Fremont, but it also gives the reader an understanding of our nation's pre-Civil war political climate and governmental struggles.
I read this book in high school, and thought it was the best love story. I had great sympathy for this woman. And I have always been fascinated with John C. Fremont as an explorer and frontiersman and admired all that he accomplished in the early days of our country.
I learned much history from this biographical novel. Irving Stone's books no longer receive the attention they deserve. If you want to know what life in Washington was like in the days of westward expansion, this is a pleasant way to learn.
Pioneer Travel…Crossing The Sierra's In The Winter Of 1844 and Living To Tell The Tale. Details Their Personal And Public Lives As They Live Through The Tumultuous Decades Of The 40'S, 50'S, And 60'S.
A great work of historical fiction. I wonder why the unattractiveness of Mrs Fremont is so often referred to in the book. Was that to jolt us from any dream of seeing this book as a romance novel? I should think their several tragedies were enough to do that.
A rare gem from Irving Stone...read many years ago and fell in love with Jessie Benton Fremont and John Charles Fremont, the man she would love until the end of time. Best historical novel I ever read and I don't have a copy which is a bummer!
Wonderful historical fiction of the taming of the West. San Francisco history is fascinating.
Biography of Jessie Benton Fremont
A bit dated in writing style, but I've always been interested in Jesse Benton Fremont.
One of my favorite books. Strong female character with a side of U.S. history not known to many. What a remarkable First Lady she would of made....
I mention this book because it still sticks out in my mind of an incredible life story written by a man of a womans triumph in life.
