https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2866413-the-dragon-heir

I just can't rate this book as highly as the first 2 which is a bummer as it's the conclusion. The two main characters were soooooo whiny I felt like I was reading Harry Potter #5. Then it seemed like the author had to go somewhere so she just tied up the end real quick. . . "and he died and she lived and the other two lived happily ever after, the end"
I expected it to be Seph and Jack.
I wish it was Seph and Jack.
Though I should've liked them, Madison and Jason just annoyed me.
Chima did a good job with Leesha, because I like her now but she's obviously still the same person she was before.
I like Seph but I hated the whole drugging himself to function storyline.
At least Chima made it make sense, he was under too much pressure.
I understand, Hastings had to leave so the kids can be on their own, but Jack should've been the leader not Seph.
If Dragon followed the pattern of the other books it really should've been Seer Heir.
In The Warrior Heir, young Jack finds out that he has magic and that the wizards plan to use him as a pawn in their latest scheme.
In the second book, The Wizard Heir, the growing band of rebels continue their fight to create an egalitarian magic society while keeping the non-magic users safe.
But in The Dragon Heir the wizards forge an uneasy alliance amongst themselves, and their combined power may be enough to destroy the haven of Trinity and all who have worked so hard to create it.
SPOILERS***Linda and Leander's brief stint in this book was annoying.
The Trinity Weir people were in desperate need all the while Linda and Leander hang out in a castle and have basically no part in this book.
I was confused about the dragon/lady.
Maybe they don't allow dragons at art school.Sad about Jason, but hopefully Leesha will have a long time to feel guilty about that.Warren Barber got off too easy in my opinion.
I guess falling off a cliff is a violent end, but I would have preferred death by dragon fire or dragon teeth.I loved how Jessamine and Wylie lost their Weirstones.
We don't even find out what happens with Jack and Ellen, or get to see Linda and Leander's reactions to the war etc..(The last time we saw Ellen, she was dying and unconscious...is that any way to end a series?
It just seemed unnecessary, and there weren't enough Seph/Maddie scenes for my liking.
Or Linda have handled the Gyhll so that at least ONE of them would have been able to help and maybe JASON WOULDN'T HAVE DIED, because Chima would have decided NOT to be LAZY.Also, the whole thing about Nick Snowbeard betraying Lady Aiden?
I enjoyed the first two books of this trilogy.
Its almost as if the author couldnt figure out how to end it, so she just wrapped it up with a few quick paragraphs from a third person point of view.
Linda and Hastings, integral characters, disappear from the story part way through the book, only making a brief cameo later on.
Jack, who was the main character in the 1st book, barely gets a footnote, while Ellen who was mortally wounded, get a quick but non-satisfactory explanation about her recovery.
The end of this trilogy was a huge let down.
This was a pretty underwhelming conclusion to the initial trilogy.
More than predictable and quite unsatisfactory.
My edition was 499 pages long and everything is "resolved" in the last 30 pages or so and it's not even a good conclusion.
Besides the overall plot, I wouldn't say this is a sequel to the first two books.
Some characters don't feel like the characters from the previous two books.
I was not happy with this and I'm sure as hell won't be picking the next two books that came out after this one.
The final book in the excellent ‘Heir’ trilogy wraps up the conflict centered on the talented youths Jack, Ellen, Jason, Seph, and Madison.
I understand that the novel was primarily centered on these talented teens and the choices they made but it seemed odd that the two major adult players in the game would be gone – off in England securing a castle no less – for most of the book.
Okay that was quite the digression so let me say again that I loved this book!
Mature, smart, and even flawed teens making heartbreaking choices in a world full of magic, betrayal, strength, love, and loss.
There was a stint through the middle that seemed to stagnate but the ending was very well thought out with a few interesting reveals about the Dragon lore, Nick and Madison.
Unlike the endings of the other books where I saw parts coming the fate of the dragonstone was a definite twist on how I thought it would go.
Not my favorite fantasy series but if you can handle a bit of a lull for a big payoff in the end I think you will really enjoy this book.
Things have come to a head between the wizards and the other Weir (those who have the Weirstones that give them special powers).
In the previous installment/novel, The Wizard Heir, the Weir attempted to draft a new Covenant, but the peace process was a mockery, and the Covenant was stolen.
Despite the efforts of all the Weir in Trinity, they are not powerful enough to hold back the invading wizards, who want the Dragonheart more than anything.
It’s Madison (as foreshadowed in the previous novel) who has the power to control the Dragonheart and turn the tide for the other Weir.
I feel like I know you already, nameless reader.The Dragon Heir is the third and final installment of the Heir Trilogy.
(For those among you who do not understand the meaning of the word "trilogy" means.) I really have mixed feelings about this one--hence the four-star rating.The book starts strong, and moves along nicely, weaving together seemingly unrelated characters and adding complex back story to a few.
It's exactly what we've grown to love in the previous novels.
And maybe that's me, expecting too much.On the bright side, however, Chima has announced the first book of another fantasy trilogy to be ready, coming this October!
*3.25 Alright heres the thing....The first half of this story was not the best...it was very slow and the main POVs were very annoying and whiny.
At the end of Wizard Heir, my favorite character in this whole series was Jason.
SEPH was the shining light in this story...
The ending doesn't deal with half the problems it should have (mostly with how the characters recover from this whole war thing).
I was reading the last few pages and the story just stops and its like "And they all frolicked off into a meadow" NO!!
I waited quite a while for this one. I loved how the reader gets to see the story from every main character's pov. CWC really knows how to keep the action moving.The only thing that didn't quite meet my expectations was the conclusion. It was a little cliche, and I was disappointed that Madison gained all that power (though it worked). I couldn't really tell if she'd become a wizard or something different entirely, but I thought being an elicitor was plenty without piling on MORE abilities (aside from the neat way she, AHEM, steals another's weirstone power).
This one was not my favorite. the escalation was a bit much.
Overall great writing. The story was entertaining but throughout I never really connected with the protagonists and the characters was curious about were overlooked and/or (view spoiler)[killed off (hide spoiler)]I see there are two more books in the series but right now - still on the read what you have drive - I won't be continuing with this.
4.5
Ms. Chima made it feel like she had a very tight deadline that she needed to make and so she didn't spend the time or the effort on this book that she spent on the previous two.
She spends far too long with her family back home and I felt like I was waiting for her to return to Trinity the entire time and it wasn't until the last few pages that anything actually happened.
It was too easy and it felt forced, like the author had run out of ideas and just needed to put something down on the page.Jason, was another disappointment.
Bottom line, if you are going to kill a child in your story, you ought to have a darn good reason/ have provided an overwhelming amount of background and justification.
By the end of the book I was even OK with her redeeming Leesha's character (I think I just didn't care anymore) if for no other reason than that Jason loved her (although I didn't care for that pairing).
If the author was going to kill one of those two, she definitely should have killed Leesha.
Independent reading projectThe Dragon HeirIn The Warrior Heir trilogy written by Cinda Williams China the lives of Jack Swift, Seph McCauley, Madison Moss and Jason Haley are connected through life events that were struck in motion the day Jack realized he was a warrior.
In The Dragon Heir the new rules of the magical world needed to be implemented and the task to enforce them seemed to land on Jack, Seph, Jason and Madison.
You start the trilogy from the first book The Warrior Heir, then The Wizard Heir and finally The Dragon Heir.
Unless you really have a pet peeve for slow beginnings, this is not a bad thing.This whole series kind of reminded me of a little bit of everything, fantasy-novel wise.
Basically, this book drew from a lot of familiar things about fantasy and made it into its own, which is pretty cool.It might seem like there are tons of protagonists in this book, and there are.
I don't really hear about it that often (but then, it was published almost 5 years back) but it's a good series.Are you in the mood for a splash of fantasy?
(He happened to be one of my favorite characters, so I was happy about that!) The plot thickens, characters from all the books enter onto the playing field and more history and mystery about this race of "gifted" are revealed...it all started out so darn good!And then...and then...I don't know what happened.
Maybe she took too much time trying to flesh out supporting characters to a total loss of connection with front-and-center characters before.
And then, once you get to that point, well, you have to see this series through to the bitter end.
Which brings me to another thing I find weird in these books - we have warriors fighting wizards.
All sorts of mystical artifacts found in a dragon cave never really get used or explained, despite hints throughout the book that they hold all sorts of interesting powers that will tip the battle.Still, she writes in an enjoyable way, and I like a lot of the ideas she has (just wish she'd fully explore them or think them through).
It's worth reading if you've already read the first two books, but things are a bit more predictable this time around.
I hope to get into it.We are back with all the characters that we were being introduced from the 2 books and most of them are playing a more prominent role in this book.
We might missed them but it works.There are really some funny moments:-"Next thing you know, they'll break into a chorus of "Kumbaya", Jason thought, drumming his fingers on the table.""Longbranch's eyes glittered with irritation.
Down to the smallest child and family pet." So much for "Kumbaya", Jason thought.
It was during their negotiation on how to work together as all guilds came along together.
I really liked how the book started and it gave the reader good background information before starting into content of the book.
From what i have read it seems like he will be one of the most influential characters in this book.
But the thing is, I just like this book so much I don't think this tiny difference will make to much of a difference in how fast i read it due to how interesting it is.
I think that Jason may be an underdog type character which also represents what I feel that the theme is.
I feel that this book may appeal to alot of highschoolers out there looking for a good book to read.
To say the least I was not disappointed by this last book.I liked the narrative of Madison I felt like she was a respectable person who puts everyone before herself.
At first I felt like he didn't have the right intentions and that bothered me.
So of course, the end of the book wrecked me.
Still, I felt like some people were left out in the conclusion.
I felt like I never know what happened to the characters I grew to love through the three books.
Still, It was overall a satisfying end and I can count this series among my favorites :)
It felt pretty much like flying until you hit the ground."In this next installment of the Weir series, the conflicts between the wizards and the other guilds have come to a head as the infamous dragon stone is borrowed (ahem, stolen) from the Ghyll and the power structure of the guilds begins to come apart.
Surrounded and without many options, the young wizards and warriors ready themselves for a battle of epic proportions.I really can't summarize this book too much without giving too much away...but I have to say...Oh my GOD I loved this book!
Another day, another book that makes me cry.
This book will suck you in with its endless turns and betrayals.
Our protagonists are trapped and surrounded by two powerful armies.
But they have a secret weapon, one that could be used to save all or destroy all.
We also get a prophecy : "Four pretty boys coming.
Two will claim your heart in different ways.
Two are deceives who'll come to your door, one dark, one fair.
All of them have magic."Death and deception fill this book.
While reading it I didn't know what to think!
Betrayal born of jealousy and necessity.
This is really good. The series get much better. The first one was.. pretty good, but not one of my favorites. The second was very good, but still not my favorites, but this one, wow. I hate the ends of series, they're so depressing. This is the ONLY book EVER that i actually liked what happened on the last 5 pages. It was so good, and so much better than the others. This is deffently a book i will remember. AND i got to meet the author!
You can tell that this was suppose to be a concluding novel.Enjoyed the character development, though I found some of the characters irritating. There were some story lines that I think needed and deserved more time. The ending was a little rushed and it tied up a little too neatly. I’m looking forward to what the next two books have in store.
