https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13067.Flush
So when Paine learns that Dusty Muleman - crooked owner of the casino-boat Coral Queen - regularly (and illegally) dumps the ship's toilet waste into the ocean, Paine sinks the ship.
😫At his father's suggestion, Noah tries to enlist the help of Lice Peeking, who used to work on the Coral Queen.
Abbey gets a good vantage point and films Dusty's unlawful dumping, but the video is blurry and can't be used as evidence.
So Shelly takes a bartender job on the Coral Queen, to scope out the boat's layout - and the three conspirators come up with a genius plan to expose Dusty's wrongdoing.
You might come to ‘Flush’ with two preconceptions.Carl Hiaasen writes adult thrillers with a satirical tenor, often featuring characters from the trailer trash end of the social spectrum.
So it’s likely that his children’s books will retain a bit of that edge.Those adult thrillers, and Hiaasen’s books for younger readers, focus on environmentalism, so it’s likely that ‘Flush’ centers on that kind of issue.Your preconceptions would be proven true.
Noah knows the names of plants and animals that live where he does—in the Florida Keys.
Flush is a very good book it shows what people could risk for animals and nature. The boy in this book has a Dad that has been in jail many times when he was trying to protect wildlife. Wach him take a step while his dad is in jail and to prove that his dad is right.
Paine is put in jail for sinking the gambling boat, the Coral Queen, because Dusty Muleman has been ordering his crew to dispose of the waste into the Florida waters.
Paine tried to alert the Coast Guard about the pollution coming from the Coral Queen, but every time they checked out the gambling boat, Muleman knew so he disposed of the waste where it is supposed to go.
He finds a way to prove the contamination through a legal way with the help of Shelly who works on the gambling boat.Operation Royal Flush.
FLUSH: An Example of What Every Book Should IncludeI can't help myself.
My recent read, FLUSH by Carl Hiaasen, is a great example of this type of book.
"Happy Father's Day," I said.(I dare you not to want to read more after that!)Memorable charactersPaine Underwood- who is jailed for trying to prevent a floating casino from dumping raw sewage into the Florida Keys.Noah Underwood- his son who supports his dad's crusade--even when his father gives up on it himself.
It's all here.A great ending where the main character solves the problemFor that you'll have to read the book.Happy Reading...and oh yes, don't forget to FLUSH!
This was a pretty good book. It is about a rich person illegally hurting nature. Great book.
I want to read this to my son before he loses that "I can do ANYTHING!" feeling that only the young and unscarred possess.The book starts with Noah visiting his father in jail.
The main character, Noah, and his sister, Abbey, believe in their father and, when it becomes clear that his crusade is endangering his marriage to their mother, the kids set off on a crusade of their own: to find proof that their father is right about the illegal dumping.
I have yet to read Scat which is the latest of Hiassen's books for kids, but his storytelling is so brilliant and engaging that I headed to Barnes and Noble yesterday to pick up some of his fiction for grownups.
"Flush" is about a curious, determined boy, Noah Underwood, his tough, persistent sister Abbey, and their peculiar father who will stand up for anything that he thinks is right.
Noah's dad gets put in jail for sinking skinflint Dusty Muleman's casino boat, The Coral Queen.
Noah's dad didn't do this for no good reason at all, the truthful reason is that he thinks Dusty is flushing the sewage out into the ocean where children swim and where the sea life lives.
Now Noah and Abbey must figure out how to bust Dusty, by themselves!
I enjoyed this book more than I thought I would. It was a quick and easy read, and made me laugh out loud!
I needed a piece of light fluff to read after the last novel I tackled, which erred somewhat on the worthwhile'n'earnest side.
with the added bonus of a worthwhile'n'earnest subtext to assuage my conscience.On the Florida Keys, teenager Noah Underwood's dad has the bad/good habit of going ballistic when crass, greedy people destroy the environment.
. .Quite a few years ago I read this novel's precursor, Hoot, and enjoyed it more than somewhat (although I see that for some forgotten reason I failed to make notes on it here); soon after, I picked up Flush, which has been lurking on my shelves ever since, waiting for its Right Moment.
His crassness is unnecessary, and his approach to things like murder and alcoholism was ham handed.
A boy and his sister are trying to prove that a casino boat is dumping sewage into the bay.
Like all Hiaasen kids books, the boy is being beat up and has to stand up to his bully.
This beer drinking tattooed woman helps them even though she thinks her boyfriend who is an alcoholic was murdered, she has a grudge against men and kinda says weird things to the boy about it.
This whole book had me squinting my eyes like why are you doing this?
Carl Hiaasen once again has written a tremendous book for the entire family!Grandparents,Parents,kids and grandkids will enjoy this book. Very enjoyable and entertaining for all!
I thought this book had one of the most brilliant opening lines of any YA book. I read it aloud to #1 son, and he snatched the book from my hands and proceeded through Hoot as well.
This be a review of the other four books: hoot, flush, chomp, squirm.
All of them involve a young boy who lives in Florida, gets bullied, loves animals, has a quirky sense of humor, makes new friends, and saves the day.
This book follows a boy named Wahoo (worst name ever) as he works with his dad as an animal wrangler for a wildlife reality tv show.
It is over-the-top and ridiculous and I loved it.squirm: This book was slightly different in that part of it takes place in Montana and there is an absent dad who certainly doesn’t win any awards for best parent.
This book really gives insight to readers on what is wrong with the real world. The characters show emotion and really tie everything together with each character having a certain role. There are character you will love and characters you will loathe. You love to hate Dusty and his son. You feel bad for the father and realize that he is perfectly sane.
The Carl Hiaasen juvenile books are dream reads. Dream reads are those special books where you open the pages and fall into a story so convincingly real it's like you're standing next to the characters, smelling what they smell, seeing what they see, and feeling what they feel. Thank you, Mr. Hiaasen, for taking me to Florida and showing me a place I haven't been to since I was a boy.
Noah's dad tries to get back at Dusty, for putting the holding tank in the ocean, by sinking his casino ship, Coral Queen. He has to go to jail on fathers’ day. Noah and Abbey try to prove that there dad is right by making up this crazy plan that includes sneaking into the Coral Queen. Read the book to find out what happens next. The main characters in the book are Dad and Noah. Dad, Paine, he has some anger issues. When he gets something on his mind he will do whatever it takes to get them to
Noah's dad tries to get back at Dusty, for putting the holding tank in the ocean, by sinking his casino ship, Coral Queen.
Noah and Abbey try to prove that there dad is right by making up this crazy plan that includes sneaking into the Coral Queen.
The main characters in the book are Dad and Noah.
The main idea of the story is how Noah tries to prove his dad is right and never gives up.
Some of the details include how he always believed his dad and how he made two plans to prove him right.
I think the book Flush is a good book, because it teaches you not to dump waste in the ocean.
No matter what the situation is, always do what you think is right, and don’t let anyone else get in your way.One thing that bothered me about this book is that it kind of got boring during some parts of the book.
I felt like there need to be less detail, because sometimes the author described a scene in way too much detail to where it got boring.
I recommend this book to people who like reading a mystery, or environmental book.
2/5 starsI did not like this book because it was to predictable and easy. I did not enjoy it. xoxo,BebeI am going to give Hoot a try. I am probably not going to like it though.
Super cute, and super fun.World: Hiaasen style of Florida, where the characters are larger than life and the city itself is a character.
I love the tropical feel of the book, the tone that he sets for the world, it’s a fun place.
It had all the charm that Hiaasen books have and the laugh out loud absurd moments.
Hiaasen loves to make characters that represent something and make it extreme to play out the absurd humour of it and that’s the case here.
These characters are fun.A wonderful book that should not be miss just because of the sheer fun of it.Onward to the next book!
I listened to this on a particularly slow day substituting at the library.
The reader has a nice voice, although he has a tendency to rush a bit.
Maybe it comes with the genre, trying to sound excited?I don't know.I didn't finish it, but the plot was entertaining.
This book tows the line between J and YA fiction tropes.
However, unlike many books that fall into this trap, it felt realistic.
I can't see why these books were as popular as they were ten years ago, but I haven't read "Hoot" yet.
That being said it was still a very good and entertaining book; it touches heavily on environmentalism, corrupt business practice, and family issues.Noah Underwood's father has sunk a gambling ship and been thrown in jail.
Noah and Abbey set a trap to catch the owner of the gambling ship in the act, but they are in more danger than they originally thought.This was a well done book; it is well-written, easy to read, and moves along at a good clip.
It is witty and well thought out.Noah learns a lot about corruption and environmentalism throughout the book.
Lieromainen liikemies Dusty Muleman on houkutellut Miccosukee-intiaanit mukaan kasinobisnekseen: he ovat ostaneet satama-altaan ja julistaneet sen reservaatiksi.
Satama-altaassa taas kelluu kasinolaiva Korallikuningatar - aina siihen asti, kun kalastusopas Payne Underwood saa tarpeekseen jätevedet mereen kippaavasta purkista ja vetää niin sanotusti tulpan irti.
Paynen lapset: 12-vuotias Noah ja 10-vuotias Abbey ovat varttuneet Floridan vesillä ja rakastavat isänsä tavoin meriluontoa.
Noah ja Abbey haluavat tietysti saada isänsä pois putkasta, mutta he haluavat myös saada Dustyn kiikkiin siitä, että hän laskee kasinolaivan jätevedet mereen sen sijaan, että ne tyhjennettäisiin sataman jätesäiliöihin.
Menee vinkkaukseen varsinkin, kun ilmiöpohjaisen opsin ensi vuoden koulukohtaisena teemana Kuljussa on vesi.
Then suddenly his dad goes to jail, while visiting him in jail he finds out that his dad went to jail for sinking a gambling boat called "The Coral Queen".
By now Noah got his sister,Abbey, to help him out on his journey his dad has practically sent him on, and so him and is sister start to investigate "The Coral Queen" and find out they are still dumping sewage.
Now Noah and Abbey do a little planning and plan to expose "The Coral Queen" for what it really is, and so they buy a bunch of vials of pink dye.
Flush was a book about a boy around the age of 14 who's name is Noah.
Throughout the book Noah and his family stand up against injustice and do what they can to make a change.
I can connect this book to HOOT by the same author because the two main characters played almost the same roles.
Some up standers stand up and try to stop the injustice and sometimes they are able to do it on their own.
One thing I didn't like was that it was way to much a like to HOOT, another one of his books.
Although I had not read it at the time, we decided that the reviews made Flush sound like the right book for the job.
The novel follows two teens, Noah and Abby, who are trying to expose a casino boat owner who they believe is dumping the casino's septic waste into the local beach to save money.
Their father, an outspoken champion of the environment had recently been jailed for sinking the casino boat in protest, so Noah and Abby are trying to vindicate their father.
The students loved this book.
When Noah Underwood's father is sent to prison for sinking a casino boat that he believes to be dumping waste tanks into the ocean, Noah decides to help his father prove his suspicions.
Noah and his siter, Abbey, get into all kinds of trouble as they attempt to prove that their father is sane and telling the truth, while keeping the owner of the boat from polluting the ocean around their home in the Florida Keys.I really enjoyed this book because it was filled with action and suspense.
Noah, Abbey, and their parents are very passionate about keeping the beaches and oceans clean, and they are willing put themselves at risk to stop the casino boat from polluting.
i choose this book because it seemed like a good book.
noahs dad goes to jail because he tryed to sink a boat that was dumping sewadge in the ocean which your not supose to do.
noahs dad (paine) goes to jail for it because he doesnt have proof that dusty is dumping sewadge in the ocean.
naoh, abby, and shelly take purple dye and flush it in the toilets so it dusty does dump the sewadge in the ocean then he will get caught and he does.
i thought the book was good.
Flush is like Greenpeace meets CSI.
Basically, a boat is dumping its waste into the ocean and Noah, the main character, tries to figure out who is doing it.
It’s a book with a political agenda and an environmental agenda, something that typically does not work, but it works well here.
One other thing I can relate to is that Noah, the kid, is the one who is rational and calm, the dad is the unstable one.
Something I can relate to, being the dad myself.
And it’s number two that this book is all about.
This is the third of Hiaasen's YA novels that I've read (after Scat & Hoot) -- I just love them. They're not as wild and funny as his adult fiction, but I enjoy them all the same, and it's nice that they only take a couple of hours to read. Can't wait until I can share them with my kids.As with all of Hiaasen's YA novels, this one deals with villainous Floridians who are destroying the environment, the plucky kids who won't let them get away with it, and the quirky grown-ups who help them.
