https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525561.The_American_Way_of_Death
So there the funeral directors have you with hermetically-sealed metal coffins of immense strength, strong enough to enclose all the explosive gases the decaying body will generate, that cost an awful lot of money.
One way or another that day is going to cost some as many thousands as the funeral directors can milk.
The cost of this coffin was over $800 and the rest of the funeral costs, the cars etc were the same as any other So how do you get out of all of that?
The author criticized how undertakers aka funeral directors, claim there is therapeutic value to viewing the body -in most cases.
Just from my own experience in the trade, I would say that a body viewing can be a big stepping stone in a particular mourning journey, and should not be downplayed just because some undertakers have exploited even that for unfair money.Despite the attack slant, it makes a fair study of American funeral history, giving quotes from funeral trade magazines and other sources the industry used and possibly uses.
I was seriously considering a career move to embalming and the restorative arts, and I picked up Mitford's book as some preparatory reading.
After finishing the book I decided that ethically, I really don't think I could be involved in such a process, even if it is "necessary" for those left behind.
The version I have is from the 1960s but there is an updated edition that gives the financial figures in todays' dollars.
You would think that an industry expose that cites statistics and figures would be a terribly dull read, but the pacing and precision of the writing make for a fascinating, consise and absorbing work.
Jessica Mitford reports in excellent and interesting detail on the American funeral industry.You would think this topic would be boring, but she has a good writing style and keeps a good pace.She does point out the pressure that many unscrupulous funeral directors put on greiving families.
At a time where the family is ill-prepared to make any weighty decisions, they are often pressured to buy more of a funeral than is really needed.Not exactly a fun read, but i learned a lot.
if you are making a will or a funeral directive, I'd recommend it for sure--otherwise, recommended if the subject matter interests you.

A good laugh, actually. Also v sad
I just remembered this one, very popular in its time(the sixties). Not sure how much of it i actually read but some for sure. Date read is a guess ...
This concept she writes about also includes the fancy accessories a corpse can have like special mattresses in a coffin, special shoes, and other such items.
This also seems a bit silly to me as I'd hope whatever happens after death, the person is not stuck in their coffin.Throughout the book she includes excerpts from funeral director's magazines and other such articles in which they are trying to sell the best and have a strong suspicion against clergy and other type folks who may convince people they only need a simple funeral.

It is true I most likely wouldn't have read this if it hadn't been written by Jessica Mitford.
But I am glad it was written by her because I got the chance to find out how interesting a book about the funeral industry could be!
(Also, though I was planning on reading it someday, I may have never gotten around to it had I not found a copy for 50 cents in the used books at the library!
I don't want her to get worried every time she sees me reading a brightly-coloured, quirkily-titled book.
Funny the books that pop up in your recommendations or in the descriptions of other books in your recommendations. Yes, I read this book in high school and it was very interesting. I had never read anything quite like it. People may have looked a little askance at me for reading this (I got a couple of comments) but it was very good information.
It seems that the morticians, flower-wallas, crematory czars, and cemetery owners have not much reformed their ways since then, because she wrote a follow-up exposé many years later, just before she herself went to that Great Memory Garden in the sky.THE AMERICAN WAY OF DEATH is based on her readings of many trade magazines and newsletters, on interviews with a number of figures in the funerary trade, and interviews with public health officials, county or state officers, lawyers, and doctors.
However, for a look at the inanities and insanities of the American funeral industry at mid-20th century, you must read this book.
Jessica Mitford's classic expose of the funeral industry is most interesting now when you realize how little has changed--the "funeral industrial complex" is still overcharging, performing unnecessary procedures, and capitalizing on the vulnerable state of their customers.
Mitford's tone is breezy and knowledgeable, with just a light bit of snark that makes this a quick read.
I know the book was updated in the nineties, shortly before Mitford's death, and I would be curious to see if she went into how British funeral customs, which she compared favorably to ours for their relative dignity and austerity, have fallen in line with our more gaudy ways.
I love this one. Mitford pulls no punches in this book. This is a takedown of the entire funeral industry. I knew that going in. What I didn't expect was the stinging wit she uses to take down these moneygrubbers. It's funny. Although since this was published in 1961, I wonder how much has changed in the funeral industry. We're still enbalming, there's still casket showrooms, and people are still buying burial vaults, so I suspect not much.When the time comes, please throw me on top of the compost pile at the Urban Death Project.
Before reading this book I was going with the flow of having a casket, wake, burial, and being buried in a cemetery. After reading this book I realized that I can choose a radically different course for how I want to be remembered. Since reading this book my family gave my grandmother a viking funeral. Cremation is now the route most of my family members have decided upon. My parents are looking to sell the grave plots they bought back in the seventies. In short, this book is an eye opener.
Good book. I think I expected more exploration of multiple dimensions of death - not only death as business. Still, jet was thorough and eye-opening.
real fascinating stuff. my favourite Mitford. probs quite out of date now though
Jessica Mitford. Wow. An incredibly well-researched, very sarcastic book. On the funeral “industry”.
I know much of it is Mitford’s art of presentation and the stereotypes she is advancing, but there’s something joyful and akin to schadenfreude in the juxtaposition of the unruffled, practical English undertaker and the indignant, grasping American funeral director.
($100 in 1963 is about $800 in 2018.) If you cant be bothered to look any of these things up, there is a revised 1998 version, which I did initially pick up by accident, but I found its first chapter jarring and sought out the original instead.
So if you get past the first rather strange chapter, I think this could be a good updated version to read.
Instead I found a book almost frightening in its relevance.Multiply all of Mitford's dollar amounts by 10-15 to account for inflation and strike the most blatant racism and sexism (segregated cemeteries, undertakers and embalmers only referred to as "he" and "men"), and Mitford could've written this book in 2013, instead of 1963.
A friend asked me to send her a few quotes I particularly liked; I had to force myself to stop when I realized I was about to type out an entire chapter.If you are an American who thinks you will ever die (please say yes) or be to any degree responsible for dealing with the funeral and disposition arrangements of someone else who has died, read this book.
I love Mitford's book on the funeral industry.
Yes, I'm sure things have changed, so I'm going to read her updated version next, but some things always remain the same.
(It can be a predatory industry regardless of the product.) I did enjoy how Mitford tackled all aspects of the related trades, like florists, because they do not come as readily to mind as funeral directors and cemetery owners.
Mitford is also just a hoot to read with her biting sarcasm and quick wit parrying against these "funeral men".
By coincidence, I met last week with the undertaker at the graveyard where my husband and I have purchased our plots.
I thought it was time to make and prepay for all of our funeral needs so our children would not have that burden.
This book opened my eyes to the potential of vulnerablity with regard to potential expenses in arranging a funeral for a loved one.
Checkbook in hand, I went over my needs with the undertaker.
He wrote up the contracts.
Why would I need that if the burials and the plots were all paid for?
There has been many new regulations on the funeral industry, so a lot of the information in this book is really outdated now, but I can see how it must have been controversial at the time it was written.
I was totally disgusted to read about the flower industry challenging the newspapers over printing in obituaries people's decisions to ask for donations to charity in lieu of sending flowers!
My only real complaint is how much she tears apart the concept of grief therapy.
Maybe at the time it was not well-known, but it is a very real thing, and very helpful to a lot of people.
As an aspiring funeral director and currently attending mortuary school, this book was a must-read for me since it is the main reason that funeral service is being regulated now.
I also feel that in order to be a truly compassionate and educated funeral director, I need to educate myself on the bad press that funeral service has gotten in the past.
I wasn't alive when this book was published but my father was and he read it numerous times.
People who have read this book are people that I am going to encounter throughout my career.
I gave up after about 35 pages. Undertakers are all rip-off merchants -- yeah, yeah, yeah. I get the point. Sadly, this book is WAAAAYYY out of date, which makes it practically useless. I suppose if you're writing a book about funerals in American during the later 1950s and early 1960s then this would be your golden ticket for research. Other than that, skip it.
This witty, although somewhat disturbing, investigation into the move from sobre farewell to full-blown commercial exploitation of funerals, is interesting both in terms of the way the change has been managed (language, the guilt trip, customer's tendency towards choosing the middle price) and in its increasing relevance to the UK. Beware, it's all coming our way!
Jessica Mitford is a great prose writer, and kept me interested both with her subject, and her witty comments. The most interesting part of this book is when Mitford goes "Behind the Formaldehyde Curtain" and into the process of embalming; it is what also originally got me to look into her book. It was super fascinating.
If I hadn't read Curtains: Adventures of an Undertaker-in-Training by Tom Jokinen I might have found this more interesting. Jokinen covered much of the same material in a more personal manner. I found Mitford's material dry and just straight facts.
393 A fascinating book about how the funeral industry works in this country, (embalming,other rituals, etc.) and how it often takes advantage of people when they are at their most vulnerable. It's been updated but I haven't read that yet.
Consider the source. Then go talk to a real licensed funeral director. Then talk to a family who has had a loss. THEN make your own educated decision as to whether the funeral industry is as superfluous as she makes it out to be.
