https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29844228-thirteen-reasons-why
In fact, sometimes, there is quite a divide between some of them, e.g. we have (view spoiler)[a guy who enabled a rape and a peeping tom (hide spoiler)] against a guy who once grabbed Hannah’s ass and one (I think?) who was a friend that she grew away from.
(hide spoiler)] So, even if Jessica could remember and it wasn’t all horrifying news to her, she then had to deal with the fact that her ex-best friend and crush (view spoiler)[knowingly let it happen.
This isn’t what we should be portraying as a realistic image of what could ever, ever happen.TAPE #3: Think about who is WATCHING this.Remember earlier, how I posited that most everybody has thought about suicide - at least in the abstract?
It both reduces the trauma of having depression and indicates suicide as an option for people who may have never considered it otherwise.TAPE #8: Don’t tell teenagers not to go to authority figures.Making the guidance counselor a villain is maybe one of the most irresponsible attempts at drama in this stupid fucking narrative.
and i understand the idea of cause and effect, and that teenagers of all people, need to be more conscious of the effects their actions have on the feeeeelings of others, and this book is meant to highlight that even the smallest things can have a profound effect on a person's life, but ugh - this character is appalling.
brat.(if she heard me say that, she would try really hard to come back to life so she could make me a tape telling me how i wounded her soul and then she would kill herself again to make me feel guilty.
“When you mess with one part of a person’s life, you’re messing with their entire life. Everything. . . affects everything.” Sometimes it's hard to see why other people might dislike a book you enjoy, but with Thirteen Reasons Why, I can understand it perfectly.It is told from the perspective of Clay, but is mostly about the life of Hannah - a girl who recently killed herself. After her death, Clay receives a set of cassette tapes on which Hannah explains the thirteen reasons why she decided to
Sometimes it's hard to see why other people might dislike a book you enjoy, but with Thirteen Reasons Why, I can understand it perfectly.It is told from the perspective of Clay, but is mostly about the life of Hannah - a girl who recently killed herself.
After her death, Clay receives a set of cassette tapes on which Hannah explains the thirteen reasons why she decided to kill herself.
Clay changes his mind about Hannah based on what he hears and decides she did not deserve to be slut-shamed because the rumours weren't true.
While this was a good book, well written and all…the plot was just not good enough—no, the reasons leading to Hannah Baker killing herself were not believable enough for me.
And committing suicide and then blaming people for it is just a stupid excuse for killing herself.
If Clay wasn't one of the reasons Hannah killed herself, then why put him through the agony?
One second I'm reading in Clay's point of view, the next Hannah's.
Starring Selena Gomez.Also, if you want to know more about Hannah's reasons, read message 6.
I'm a girl who has struggled with suicidal thoughts since she was nine years old at the very latest.
I saw a girl who killed herself because boys were mean to her, and I think that if you reversed the sexes and made it a boy who killed himself for Hannah's reasons, no one would have bought it.It's a symptom of a larger epidemic you see all the times in discussions of girls with mental illness.
Hannah's depression is entirely circumstantial, as is her suicide, and I just do not buy it.Not to mention I think it's a complete cop-out to have Clay be the only guy on the list who didn't fuck her up.
EDIT AND UPDATE, 2017:  I read this book back in 2014 when I was a teen and I hated it. I still hate it. My review is getting a lot of traffic atm so I'm just going to do a little update and leave you some links to better reviews that tell how problematic the story is:Tweet thread on the problematic show.Article on why it's dangerous.Goodreads review on why it's seriously bad. NOTE:  I'm not responding to comments because wtf is going on in the comment section I have no idea. I'm sorry my revie
I don't care if you like this book, but be respectful of people who say it's triggering, problematic, and sends a dangerous message about romanticising suicide and condoning revenge suicide.
And I feel like the message was (so  wrong ) that  everyone is to blame for one person’s suicide.
I personally believe what Hannah did by sending those tapes out (view spoiler)[ especially to Clay, because SHE SAID he wasn’t actually involved in her death!
I hate the message this book sends.
I hate how she could have, potentially, sent 13 other people to kill THEMSELVES because of what she said about them on the tapes.
I had heard very mixed things for some time and it seemed a lot of readers were very divided on this book, but I personally really loved it.I do want to say I don't think this is 100% the best book in the world for depression/suicide, but I do believe it is an intersting narrative on how suicide impacts those affected, considering suicide is never a singular action.
I also despise the reviews on here saying that "Hannah had no excuse to kill herself, she was not depressed enough and it wasn't believable for her to commit suicide because of these reasons." Excuse me?
My hatred can be split into four parts: The Message to the Target Audience, Glamorous Suicide, The Absolutely Terrible Excuse for A Main Character and Were you Raped?
I'm sorry, I'm sure there are many (MANY) ways to interpret this book, but I just can't see feeling sympathy for the girl who killed herself over "nice ass" and "friends not staying friends" vs the one who was raped while her best friend/guy-she-liked watched and then was blamed for a suicide.
Update 7/10/15: A Conversation From Yesterday... Co-Worker: "My kid just read this book and loved it. You are a reader, right? If you haven't read it, you should read it." Me: "What's it called."CW: "'Thirteen Reasons' or something. It's about suicide." Me: Hmmmm, yeah I think that sounds familiar. Hold on lemme check. *checking GR and finding review*CW: "You find it?"Me: "Um, yeah."CW: "So you like it?"Me: "Um...sure..."LMAO  Original (pre-gif discovery)Review: I see that this book is pretty w
I see a hypocritical, self-absorbed teenager who basically refused to take responsibility for herself and/or her OWN actions because she was too busy analyzing OTHER people's actions and how those actions--directly or indirectly--affected Hannah.
Hannah's ridiculous 13 tape manifesto is all about laying people out for not seeing or simply failing to care how their actions affected Hannah.
Do I think it's fucked up that Tyler peeped into her window (a situation that felt totally contrived)?
I'm just not down with the 13 tapes vilifying other people for not thinking about how every move they made affected Hannah.
Bad Dialogue & Monologues: Like I said, Hannah and Clay are somewhat believable characters, but they often speak - and think - in ways that no teenager does.
Asher either doesn't have the guts to portray depression, abuse, and suicide the way they really are, or (more likely) he doesn't know much about them, but wanted to get famous writing a book about it anyways.1.
Throughout the book, Asher makes all the rather trivial stuff that happens to Hannah seem like a huge deal.
this is one of the best books about adolescents and real life and how things can snowball that i have ever read.not to mention this is the best, best, portrayal of true suicidality that i have come across - in all genres.
it's not an impulsive suicide, despite what people may have thought, and that's part of why i think i appreciate this book so much.
more than anything, i think hannah wanted to leave her own answer to "why do people commit suicide" and "signs to watch out for".
In Thirteen Reasons Why we listen to audio tapes that was sent to 13 people by Hannah who committed suicide, to explain her reasons why.First I want to mention that to all the reviewers who say that her reasons weren't "good enough" for her to kill herself, you're wrong.
These were her reasons to commit suicide, which were enough for her, who are we to judge?Personally I thought it was amazingly done and very realistic.
We go through the story with Clay while he is listening to Hannah's tapes.
I really though this was a great way to pace the story and build up the suspense.
I definitely have no hard feelings towards Thirteen Reasons Why but I also don’t really have anything to rave about.
I read in quite some reviews that people thought her reasons to commit suicide were shallow.
People don’t always have this big reason behind their decisions.
But this book definitely showed me that even small things we do (or don’t do) can have a huge impact on somebody else’s life, and that sometimes we should take more time to try to understand the people we deal with everyday – be it at school or somewhere else.
So basically when she allows a classmate to be raped in front of her it's fine because, like, her head wasn't in the right place or something, but when other people don't acknowledge her new haircut it's because they are purposely attacking her and they deserve to be punished.This book makes a mockery of suicide.
I would argue it is much more severe then any bullying Hannah was on the receiving end of.Ultimately, Thirteen Reasons Why waters down suicide to make it look like an awesome revenge tactic rather than an incredibly serious and sensitive issue that many teens are dealing with every day.
Actually I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and found it very compelling so I'm a little apprehensive about leaving a positive review after reading so many negative comments about it, but I suppose it is only everyone's opinion.I started reading this book at bedtime and whenever I woke up during the night and throughout the next day when I wasn't reading it, I was constantly thinking about the characters - it had such a pull to it.
I would say don't be put off by any of the negative reviews you may come across, I dithered for a while over reading it, but I have to say it's a book that I did enjoy reading and I know will stay with me a long time.
People who are clinically depressed, people who feel like they have no other option but to kill themselves, don't do it because of a tiny, trivial reason.
If we hadn't had a glimpse inside of Hannah's head, I would have thought that maybe she was in a such a dark place that she felt like she had no other option but to kill herself.
Why doesn't she think about how her tapes could make someone else kill themselves, huh?
To make it seem like a friend or loved one, doing something minor or mundane, could cause a suicide is a horrible seed to plant.
I hope no one suicidal or anyone that has seen the effects of suicide ever reads this.Hated this.
Or better yet, what actions of Hannah's, inspired by her own unhappiness, contributed to the despair of another person who may later consider suicide?I think that the author was trying to say that there is never one single reason for a person to commit suicide, and that we should be aware of how we treat other people because we don't know the power of our own seemingly inconsequential actions.
Most people did not kill themselves in high school despite 13 or more reasons to do so.I've never been the kind of person who is comforted by thoughts like, "Think how much worse someone else has it." That's not what I'm saying here.
growing up, my parents taught me that no one but myself is responsible for my decisions.
which is why i found it so difficult to empathise with hannah and her ‘thirteen reasons why’ she committed suicide - each reason/tape entirely placed the blame on someone else and she took none of the responsibility for her own actions.thats not to say people dont suck.
yes, people can be mean and cruel and hurtful.
but hannah took no action to fix those problems or right those wrongs.
so if you ask me, hannah deserved her own tape.and thats the tea.
The stigma surrounding mental illnesses will be perpetuated, and people who aren't being bullied and seemingly have a good life may be called "fakers" or told that they're "just looking for attention" if they mention the thoughts and feelings that they're having, because the show perpetuates the idea that suicide is caused just by bullying, because it doesn't discuss any alternative explanations.
This could be extremely harmful, because it could lead teens to think suicide isn’t as big of a deal as it is, and that could lead them to make the decision to kill themselves a lot easier than they otherwise might have.Glorification of SuicideThe book heavily glorifies suicide by portraying it as a valid way to get revenge on the people who may have hurt you throughout your life.
TH1RTEEN R3ASONS WHY ثلاث عشر سببالقراءة الروايةبتلك النسخة ذات مشاهد محذوفة ونهاية مغايرة للاصلية، وحوار مع المؤلف بعد 10 سنين من كتابته الروايةوهذا ما كان سببا أقوي حتي من الحلقة الاولي من المسلسل المبني عليها بشكل مكمل، وبسبب القصة وأسلوب سردها والأهم؛ لأن هذا قد يحدث لك ** الســـبب الأول **لأنها ليست قصة تشجع عن الانتحار “أنت لا تعرف ما بحياة أي أحد سوي حياتك. وعندما تعبث بجزء واحد من حياة أحدهم، فأنت لم تعبث بهذا ”الجزء فقط. للأسف لا يمكنك أن تكون بهذه الدقة ولا أن تختار. عندما تعبث بجزء من

Lord. This was even worse than I thought it would be.Hannah, I know you've been treated unfairly and you wanted to get back at the people who wronged you. But I was totally dumbfounded by this roundabout way of doing so which actually includes you losing your own life in the process.All those preparations and time and planning.Such a waste.And Asher's writing didn't help the matter either: not suspenseful enough.
Post-mordem a box of cassette tapes is sent around to 13 of peers, all of whom played a part in her ultimate suicide.
Also, the fact that this young girl commit suicide because of alienation at school is not portrayed in a believable sense either.
When he should be realizing that Hannah gave up, instead he goes on blaming himself ( he, himself did not belong on the tapes) and ultimately decides to talk to a girl who is an outsider.
Gives people who commit suicide a bad name.
the topic of this book was poorly researched and the message is wrong.
“You can't stop the futureYou can't rewind the pastThe only way to learn the secret...is to press play.”   Thirteen Reasons Why is a book I’ve been meaning to read for about 5 years. My sister read it and told me I’d love it. I do love books that make me cry and since the book is being made into a Netflix series next month, I thought why not give it a go. As depressing as this one was, though- I didn’t shed one tear. I’m not sure what that says about me or the story. Honestly, I have conflict
My sister read it and told me I’d love it.
I’m not sure what that says about me or the story.
Honestly, I have conflicting feelings about the story itself.
However, it was story that I feel will stay with me.
I guess my biggest issue was that as much as I liked Clay, I didn’t connect with Hannah.
I understood her, but I didn’t really ever get that understanding I desired.
I loved how part of the story was told through Hannah’s tapes, and the rest from Clay’s POV.
I didn’t want to stop listening.
The subject matter - suicide - is controversial.
Because of that, I am going to avoid too much commentary on the subject matter and just say that the content of this book is serious and does affect teenagers in different ways.
Learning what happened along with the narrator and hearing his emotions since he was directly affected is pretty powerful.
I think this is important to help make it feel like we are along with the narrator in real time.Remember going in that the subject is suicide and if that bothers you, do not read this.
Put meunderneath God's sky and know medon't just see me with your eyesTake awaythis mask of flesh and bone andSee mefor my soulalone.  Trigger Warning: Suicide and rape.For some reason, I've been in the mood to read books with a strong topic and subject, involving something personal or something I can relate to in any way; something I can feel emotions with. Thirteen Reasons Why really wasn't it. It wasn't an emotional book. I've heard it's such a sad book that makes you cry and sob hard, but
Understand why and how he wasn't able to help her and change the way she looked at life.As a person who has looked at her life differently than others, thinking it's too different; as someone who had been wanting to know what the meaning of her life really was and what she was doing in this world, a world that she felt like she didn't belong in; as someone who has been able to survive from voices in her head telling her to do it, to press the gun, to take the pills, to pull the rope, to drink the ammonia, to push the blade, I was not able to connect to Hannah in any way.
Nothing justifies suicide. Nothing. This is the tenth anniversary edition of the novel which includes a new foreword by the author, along with some comments about the process of the original publication and even the original ending not used in the finished novel. NOVEL V. NETFLIX: DAWN OF ADAPTATIONS It’s not rare that if you haven’t read this novel before and now you’ll do it, it’s because the Netflix TV series, and that’s nothing wrong with that. Certainly films and TV series are great promot

One of the saddest things ever is when someone so young feels like they have no way out other than taking their own life.
This isn't a sad story of a girl who tragically takes her own life.
This isn't a girl who feels utterly hopeless; it's a girl who says "this is ALL your fault and I'm gonna show you."The only person responsible for Hannah taking her life is Hannah.
Taking your own life is never the answer.
This is not the tragic story of a young lady that feels she has no way to improve her life: it's a revenge story.
Rating:   Review: This novel was gripping since page 1. Even though I finished it like in 1 day and 2 sittings (I didn’t want to put it down) yet I am rating it 3 stars.Hannah Baker was a newcomer in the town and school. Her reputation was tarnished by the guy (her senior) during her first days in the town. Later on, she was accused of betrayal by her new friend that she stole her guy (all three of them are classmates). That guy sort of used Hannah to make her ex jealous and to get back her. Ha
Even though I finished it like in 1 day and 2 sittings (I didn’t want to put it down) yet I am rating it 3 stars.Hannah Baker was a newcomer in the town and school.
Except for the few like Bryce Walker, Zach Dempsey and Courteney Crimsen, I don't see Hannah was right blaming others for her suicide.I get that school and high school could be a problem period for some (or many) people.
But Hannah didn't occur like any over-sensitive or emotional girl to me.
Sending audio tapes to those who were the reasons of one's suicide so they could know how their actions affected others lives - genius!
