https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218453.The_Gripping_Hand
I like the first book so much and I kept thinking, even if the sequel's not as good, it has to be worth reading, and I really want to find out what happened with the Moties.
The storyline just got too slow and confusing and I completely lost interest.I was reasonably engaged with the first half of the story, which involves a mystery with a Mormon group on a planet that may have some clandestine dealings with the Moties, which is of grave concern to the authorities, since Moties reproduce incredibly quickly and Motie warriors = Death, walking.
This is the sequel to The Mote in God's Eye, and everything that made the original book remarkable is missing, while everything that bothered me about it is back with a force.
What made the original so compelling was the central mystery around the true nature of the aliens with whom the protagonists make first contact -- I can't talk about that without spoiling the first book to readers unfamiliar with it.
The plot also feels padded by a couple pretty unrelated vignettes that don't seem like they belong -- this might be some sort of discord between the two authors showing through.If you read The Mote in God's Eye and liked it, maybe leave it at that.
A lot of people found fault with the shallow characterization of the first novel (c'mon: most of the characters then were military officers in a crisis situation--they're not gonna break out their banjos and tea-bagging), and this is far worse and inexcusable in this book.
The same characters flit wraith-like through interminable conversations and meetings and wondering-things and convenient-answers and deductions that leave the reader befuddled.I got halfway through, like I said and the Moties were just showing up but even then, the immediate reintroduction of them became a gigantic "Falcon's Crest" clusterfuck that made me quietly slip my bookmark out and pass it over onto the "Going to the Used Book Store" stack.
Long-awaited sequel to The Mote in God's Eye. It doesn't live up to its predecessor, but Mote is perhaps the best first contact s.f. novel ever, so it's understandable why Hand fails to hit the mark.Roughly the first half of the novel, before Kevin Renner and company return to the Mote system, is slow-going, but I appreciated the opportunity to see a bit more of the Empire itself, especially the capital world of Sparta.
He quickly becomes the central and most interesting character in the book.The second half, the return to the Mote system, gives us Niven and Pournelle at their imaginative best.
Re-reading it now I think there's more to it than I understood.
It has two large problems.
This causes the development to seem sketchy.
It probably needed about a thousand to fully develop its burden.
It deals with the question of the Moties from a completely different point of view than the first novel which I think is a triumph of imagination, the Moties in the first book being so striking and permanently fixed in the minds of readers.
I credit Niven for that.
I credit Pournelle for that.
Sequel to The Mote in God's Eye.After a quarter of a century, the Moties are poised to return, and humanity has to try to deal with it.Just didn't hit me at all.
Very slow first half book, it got better but off it goes to listia. =)
With "The Gripping Hand," Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle present their attempt to follow up the success of "The Mote in God's Eye," and while it is an admirable effort, I believe that it falls short, if only just.The first book in this two book series, "The Mote in God's Eye,"(and no, it has nothing to do with God, or with His eye) presented mankind's first encounter with alien sentient life.
When the danger to human-life in the alien civilization becomes apparent, mankind blockades the only access route out of the system, narrowly avoiding genocide, either for man or them."The Gripping Hand" opens up twenty-five years later.
25 years have passed since the Moties were locked into their solar system by the human blockade.In the plot of The Gripping Hand by Larry Niven Horace Bury, the man given thje job of keeping the alien moties under control, and his assistant Renner find out that a new jump point to the motie system may open up allowing the moties to escape.
Burry and Renner become embroiled in a civil war when their ships are attacked by other motie sects trying to silence the humans so they can invade the human systems.
(Yes Ocean's Twelve, I'm looking at you.) The plot is thin, marginal characters from the original show up, there are a lot of exotic locales and gratuitous makeouts between characters (onscreen or off), and basically everyone in the production, if not the audience, is having fun.The Gripping Hand is that concept applied to science fiction novels.
Take one of the best science fiction novels ever, bring back characters important and marginal, visit several more fun-but-only-tangentially-related places in that universe, and have a lot more partying and sex.
Then, sell it to all your fans who loved the first book and watch the royalties flow in.

4.5 stars rounded up. I first read this story many years ago when it was first published. Now having gone through it again, this time as an audio book, I have to say the story has held up very well. In fact I think I enjoyed it more the second time. Niven and Pournelle gave us a gripping story with lots of space action and interesting aliens.This book can be read alone but to get the most from it, it would be best to read The Mote in God's Eye first.
I enjoyed this probably more than my 3 star rating would indicate. Non-planetary Moties, some returning characters from The Mote in God's Eye and some new, space battles and political strategy--all pluses. But the big minus for me was that most of the book seemed to be build-up and all the action was really crammed into the second half of the book.
love a good sequel :)
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 3/5I've looked forward to The Gripping Hand.
If the first was a sci fi tale of brinkmanship then this one was a military science fiction that played with game theory.
It was if the authors had finished the book and then, on a dare, gone and deleted every seventh sentence to prove some point or win a bet.
Conversations were disjointed, scenes opened and closed awkwardly, background information was missing key points, and explanations skipped over main ideas.
As it settled into the hard science fiction military adventure tale, it did finally come together.
Considering the rating, I find the book to be utterly disappointing. It probably assumes the reader to be familiar with the previous book in the series, and for readers like me, it is confusing and after a while, I lost interest and a kind of forced myself to finish it.
A good book, but not as good as The Mote in God's Eye.
Strictly okay compared to The Mote in God's Eye.
Lacking in much of the charm of the first book in the series and spending large percentage of time flying from here to there and back again, but there was still enough to make it enjoyable. There's a more satisfying conclusion to the story than in the first book and it was good to revisit some favourite characters. In particular, it would have been interesting to see more of the Bury/Renner antics from the years between the books.
Kevin Renner, who was the sailing master on MacArthur, the ship that visited the Mote in the first book, has been the pilot of Horace Bury these past 25 years.
Bury is still terrified of the Moties, but is determined to visit them to see their status.
The inhabitants of Mote Prime are almost extinct, so the Empire must deal with new factions.
The Empire has developed a solution to the Moties population explosion and wants to come to agreement with them on mutual existence.This book had a lot of exciting Star Wars-like battles and a lot of fun and intrigue.
I read The Mote In Gods Eye back in 2011, and didn't bother to write a review, but I remembered it as a slow investigation of the very strange alien culture of the Moties, and the fear of war to the knife between humanity and desperately poor, but fast-breeding aliens with technology just a hair more efficient than the humans.
Out of fear, humanity imposed a quarantine on the Mote system, enforced by imperial blockade.The Gripping Hand picks up 25 years after Mote, with Renner and Bury secret agents for the Empire, trying to smoke out traitors and possible leaks through the blockade.
They find that a new FTL point to the Mote system is opening now, as opposed to millions of years in the future.
Some of the characters from the first novel are there with a concentration on the former Navy navigator and the Galactic businessman Kevin Renner and Horace Bury.It doesn't leak the plot to say that obviously the Moties are a threat again and will break the blockade the first novel ended with.
This time Horace Bury is a bit more likable and understandable as compared to the first book and his terror of the Moties breaking out is a major plot point.The main problem with the sequel is that the unfolding mystery of the first novel is part of what made it so great and then how we learned about the Motie civilization and their very different biology.
In the first book, the lead-up to the Mote system and the denouement afterward weren't fantastic, and the time spent in the Mote system was really fun, suspenseful, etc.
In this book, the time leading up to the Mote system was *fantastic* ...
The first half (or third at least) was so great though, five star material.At the end of the day, do you need to read it?
If you're a science fiction aficionado, I think you *have* to read The Mote in God's Eye, despite it's shortcomings ...
and I don't think it will *ruin* Mote for you ...
Eighteen years after publishing The Mote in Gods Eye, Niven and Pournelle have written a sequel that, while not as novel, is more thrilling than the first tale of alien savants.
Even so, it is more interesting than much of the slow build up that follows.
Because the planetary inhabitants have bombed themselves back to the stone age, this tale revolves around the complex and volatile tribal politics of the Motie asteroid civilizations.
For those who have the patience to get through the build up, the last third of the book contains an increasingly frenetic series of space battles which can easily leave your mind a little breathless and confused.
This is the sequel to The Mote in God's Eye where humans and 'Moties' once again have contact.
The Gripping Hand is easier to understand if you have read The Mote in God's Eye.Man has blockaded the Alderson Point to keep the Moties (Moties bred exponentially and would quickly overrun Man's Empire) bottled up in their own system.Bury and Renner (from The Mote in God's Eye) believe the Moties may have escaped; they pull strings so that they can visit the blockade.
The tension builds through the novel, but the 'Moties' politics tend to slow the pace.Like the majority of sequels this is not as 'gripping' as the first book.Three stars
Niven was prominent in a 1970's trend in Science Fiction that emphasized the "science," a reaction to the fantasy trend that was growing and dominant then.The sociological significance of main character Bury's identification as part of a traditionally repressed and subjugated ethnic minority, Arabs, struggling to maintain its identity in contrast to an indifferent/hostile dominant culture; and the book's use of quotes from the Koran as intro pieces to many chapters may have made sense when the book was written but seem out of place given our more recent experience.
The book is further confusing in that the story starts on a planet settled by Mormons and that characters representative of the galactic Imperial establishment that Bury from which contrasts himself are prominent figures in that planet.
The developments in the Motie system after many years of blockade are the interesting points of note here and the focus on Horace Bury as the lead human representative was also a different approach to my expectations for the novel.The novel almost entirely focuses on events in and around the Motie system, space battles are to a degree, shortened and lacking detail, which is not necessarily a bad thing as it gives a more focus to the story without the details.
An interesting read, and a worthy successor to The Mote in God's Eye.
I waited a long time for this book, the sequel to The Mote in God's Eye, the best sci-fi I've ever read.
But it isn't The Mote in God's Eye. I loved seeing those characters again, but big chunks of this book are a little boring (and I'm a reader of hard-core sci-fi, mind you).
Too many sentence fragments hinders the flow of the narrative at some points.«The Gripping Hand» would have been a fine book by itself, but unfortunately it had big shoes to fill.
So I'm rating it 3 stars — a good book, not a great one.
And only Kevin Renner, Bury, and the Blaine children have the chance to unite the two species for once and for all.I liked this book because it brought the same feeling of adventure as the first book, although with a new cast of characters.
Also, the sci-fi elements brought the same sense of wonder from the previous novel.
Overall, the same setting with new problems and people gave this book a solid feel.However, this book seemed a bit monotonous in some parts which made me lose some interest.
On the other hand, the new characters were interesting and Bury and Rennor are fun characters.
On the gripping hand, the science behind the space voyage and space battle is extremely compelling, with their 'force fields' that act as giant radiator to disperse laser beams, light distance (in light minutes or seconds) used for communication and laser beams, acceleration in G, etc.
I don't know if Pournelle had more to do in this book than in the last (more science, less story?), but it's still an interesting read, but less "necessary" in a sci-fi fan's library than "The Mote in God's Eye".
