https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12427.Letters_Summer_1926
And I was rather glad for the footnotes because I could tell if my own partial translations were correct.The letters in this volume were written during a turbulent time during The Soviet Era. Many poets and writers left the country because of Stalinist persecution and the fear of being sent off to Siberia.
The correspondence started with Pasternak thanking Rilke for his praise of Paternak's poems that had been translated.
Pasternak asked that Rilke get in touch with Tsvetayeva who was in exile in Europe.
Read the letters and see what was created during the Summer of 1926.
God save us from the eternal reincarnation of a zombie Rilke!Other than Rilke, who faces his correspondence with the serene self-confidence of a very sick and very famous man, the poets all seem lost in the world, turning to each other for answers, invoking poetry as the be-all and end-all of a world that otherwise seems like a quagmire.
By the end of the book, Tsvetaeva has found her religion by turning Rilke into her God; Pasternak seems to be wisely drawing back, away from easy answers.
Marina Tsvetaeva was a brilliant Romantic poet who lived in the early 20th Century in the Soviet Union.
Her letters to Rilke and Pasternak in the Summer of 1926 are transcendent.
Each of these poets was a tempestuous soul.
Rilke and Tsvetaeva really did seem to speak their own second language, but all three of them recognized each other as kindred spirits, and they fell in love quickly with one another, even though they hadn't met.Finally, their letters bring home how much and yet how little has changed in the way we correspond with soul mates.
Heartbreaking and poignant, the letters between Marina Tsvetaeva, Rainer Maria Rilke and Boris Pasternak show the strength of the written word in extraordinarily difficult times; Tsvetaeva in exile in France, Pasternak squeaking by in Moscow, and Rilke slowly dying in the Swiss countryside.
Their emotive and passionate letters show the evolution of their poetic ideas that would remain with Tsvetaeva and Pasternak for the entirety of their lives.
Without this creative collaboration between the three (neither Tsvetaeva nor Pasternak would ever meet Rilke in adulthood), the salient poems from this time would not exist.
What to make of these letters exchanged by three of the greatest poets of the 20th century in that glorious summer of 1926?
Tsvateava is in exile in France, cut off, sounds desperate and needy, directs the exchanges, acts as though she wants to possess the great German poet.
There is much here to marvel at for those who are interested in poetry and especially these poets whose burning exchanges reveal their longing to cling to the idea of the necessity of poetry as the world is being rocked all around them.
Conozco poco de los tres escritores, solo he leído algo de la poesía de Tsvitaieva, pero vale la pena leer este encuentro de tres poetas, bastante intensas sus cartas, y su postura frente a la vida.
Tsvetaeva and Rilke certainly know how to write (Pasternak, too, of course, but his letters come off more whiny than poetic).
It is incredibly hard to follow major chunks of the book because it lacks the poems which the poets are describing.
An updated volume of the book would be great if it had an index in the back of the major poems mentioned.
Otherwise I see little point in reading page after page of minute detail of a Russian poem, further distanced from the reader by the description's translation into English.
The book made me want to read Rilke, though.
When a writer takes my interest on unexpected journey my desire to know everything about the writer becomes a little excessive and a new journey begins not only to read all of his or her's work but anything they have written.
Samuel Beckett, James Joyce et al, but this set of letters are unique in our fore-knowledge that the wonderful poet Rainer Maria Rilke during the period when they were written was dying.
Three unique poetic voices are captured here in their letter to each other; Marina Tsvetayeva living in exile in France, Boris Pasternak in Moscow, and Rainer Maria Rilke in Switzerland.
these intensity and passionate letters speak as a unique commentary on their wonderful and diverse talents.
I had just finished reading Doctor Zhivago when I happened upon this book at the library. I was curious... After reading this, I see an interesting reflection of Boris Pasternak's life (as laid out in these letters from 1926 to Tsvetayeva and Rilke) in Doctor Zhivago. As I read it, I realized that Boris is Yuri and Marina (Tsvetayeva) is Lara! It gave more context and deeper meaning to a much loved novel that I read fairly often. Interesting!
This is an amazing collection of letters between three poets throughout one summer. Questions and conversations about poetry, censorship, artistic influence, and dying. You know, typical light read.
Perhaps it was the translation, but I didn't really enjoy this. It was on my "to read" shelf from 2010, so perhaps it is just a change in tastes. There were some really lovely moments in this work, but all and all it was a lot of wading through ego and esoterism to get to them.
the most beautiful letters, so much soul and exile and love
I've read this book twice. Three great poets--Rilke, Pasternak, Tsvetaeva--and up-close glimpses of their lives and work. A must read.
https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/11...
Every thing I read that has Marina Tsvetaeva's hand in it lets me know how one should feel life - grab it shake it and hold on to it tight as it takes you for a wild ride
Effusive and brimming over with great feeling, these letters were very touching to read.
Unfortunately, the correspondence as presented here suffers from incompleteness, as Tsvetayeva's letters to Pasternak were not as yet released prior to publication, on her wishes.
That, when combined with Pasternak's own inability to muster the courage to write to Rilke more than one salutary letter prior to the latter's death means that what is presented is less of a shared conversation, and more of an intimate portrait of Tsvetayeva's and Rilke's brief acquaintance through letters in 1926.
broke me
" ni la epístola ni los sueños se dan por encargo: se sueña y se escribe no cuando nosotros queremos, sino cuando ellos quieren: la carta ser escrita, y el sueño ser soñado." ( m. ts)!!inmersión sin precedentes en el universo de unas de las mentes más interesantes de las letras rusas/ alemanas. reconstrucción muy completa de diferentes aspectos de la relación que hay entre los tres ( y entre cada uno), a pesar de que muchos datos son, intencionadamente, ignorados, ya que la atención está dirigida hacia el verano del 26 pero: comentarios explicativos muy acertados.
Estas cartas te meten en la vida de los tres autores a un nivel muy íntimo, con sus confidencias, sus dudas y su día a día. Me llamó la atención, sobre todo, la personalidad de Marina, tan pasional, tan decidida. Un documento genial para conocer algo más de su vida y sus obras
Encore!
