https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13929.Wildwood_Dancing
Read this book.The Plot: This book is a retelling of the 12 Dancing Princesses, with a little Transylvanian vampire lore thrown into the mix.There are five loving sisters living in a old, crumbling castle; they don't always get along, but there is no denying their love for one another.
A cousin of the family who is determined to destroy all that is magical about the Transylvanian forest.There is a deep friendship between that young woman and her improbable pet, a magical frog.There is a young woman's quest to keep her family together, and to save the enchanted land which they love so much, while learning her own inner strength and discovering the depths of her own heart.The Setting: I know I am being so repetitive here, but there's no other words to describe the setting of this book.
The problem with this book is that it's not real.Juliet Marillier is my arch-nemesis and main rival.
We've been competing against each other for the coveted title of #1 most followed Australian for awhile now.
The battle has been vicious.
The competition fierce.
[image error]Okay, maybe she's not as "aware" of this competition as I am...
so what if it appears that she's almost never even ON Goodreads and by all accounts may actually have forgotten that she has a GoodReads?
It still counts as a competition, right?But since I've beaten her three weeks in a row, I feel confident that I can once again read her books.This was a mistake.
It isn’t without flaws, and I will get to that, but reading it means hearing the witch cackle, feel the sisters’ love for one another in the air and your heart twist in knots to what is unfair.
I am the kind who enjoys villainous characters, for the contrast it brings to the atmosphere, but a character that destroys others’ spirits and hopes is not welcome in every chapter.
Also, there is a companion novel with as lead one of the young sisters, to make up for it, I like to think.I am more than glad I gave this sadly-under-the-radar book a chance.Here's hoping you will, too.
I spent the entirety of this book PISSED, mostly at the weakness of our supposedly headstrong, intelligent, and capable heroine, because while I was told that she was all of these things, I was never shown that she was any of these things.
He's a bully, got it.
Got it the first time, actually.
Telling me for the 1,546,353 time that he was a bully was just overkill.
Better paced, filled with compelling female characters and their believable relationships as sisters, entertaining, poetic, and with an ending that didn't make me want to curse the gods of deus ex machina.
The tone of this book does indeed feel a lot like the recent works of Patricia McKillip, but Marillier manages to make you care about the characters more (and this is coming from a huge McKillip fan).
The "villain" of the book as well is a brilliantly rendered character, who you both loathe and feel sorry for at the same time.I'd love to see Juliet Marillier do more books along the line of classic fairy tale retellings.
The reality is, while I’m pretty convinced that Marillier is incapable of writing a bad novel, I also wouldn’t expect to fall in love with every single one of them, and even though I didn’t think this was one of her best, I still thought it was a very good book and I enjoyed it a lot.Naturally, Wildwood Dancing is a reimagining of several fairy tales and other stories inspired by folklore.
OH NOOOOOOOO, I don’t care, I am hopelessly in LUV.-	But all your selfishness and your foolish acts actually endanger yourself, your lover as well as your sisters and your whole family ....
OH NOOOOOOOO, I don’t care, I caaaaaaan’t, I am hopelessly in LUV.-	But it would help your lover in his difficult quest to win you if you believed in him and actually stayed alive & strong for him so that he can come for you at the end ...
Every full moon, the sisters go through a magical portal to the "Other Kingdom," a fairy land in kind of an alternate reality set very close to the real world.
The scary ones include vampires, and Jena, the second sister who is the narrator of the story, is afraid that her older sister Tatiana has fallen in love with a young vampire.There are so many layers and elements to this story: a jealous cousin who tries to take control of Jena's family.
4.5 stars! Such a fun and magical read!The half star is knocked off for insta-love....and the same character slowly wasting away due to her love. Luckily not the main character. Hate that trope. But other than that, a beautiful book!
The fae are ruled by a mostly gracious but hot-tempered queen—but even Queen Ileana must answer to the mysterious witch Draguta, whom our five heroines have never seen.This routine has been going on for years, resulting in many wonderful friendships between the girls and the benevolent wood-people—especially between Jena and her constant companion, the frog Gogu, with whom she has established a telepathic bond.
Her death is not shown.This motivates Cezar and the other men of the village to scour the woods for the Night People, but Tadeusz and company are far too crafty for them.
Somewhere around 3.5 stars rounded up to generous 4 I guess?I really do like Juliet Marillier's writing, even though it always takes me a while to get into any of her books.
The story here is basically the same as I've read in her first 2 Sevenwaters books - the same cast of characters - a self-sufficient heroine, a suddenly weakened father, loving siblings, fairies, a family member villain, etc.
The main conflict always has something to do with fairy games and the human villain trying to force himself on the heroine.
Jena and her sisters, when her father is absent, start experiencing troubles in both fairy realm and real world.
2.5 stars. I normally adore this author, but this particular book wasn't for me.It's like the Twelve Dancing Princesses meets The Frog Prince with some vampires thrown in, except far less exciting than that sounds. The villain is super basic and one dimensional and I really couldn't stand reading his cliche bullying for much longer. Plus, the MC was a bit pathetic and the story was rather tedious. BUT the idea of the portal to the faerie world was so prettyyyyy. And I love the original stories this is based on...
Or maybe find another adjective, because between that and this review, I'm officially saturated of the word "bully".)Next: the hero and protagonist, Jena.
AND THEN HE DOES THE SAME THING AGAIN with her father's merch and she only sort of protests and then goes back to organizing a ball.
A FREAKING BALL, JENA.Jena is also a very caring person, and worries that her elderly caretaker, Petru, his having a very hard time fixing a fence all by himself when she can't afford to hire him some help.
She doesn't eat because she can only see her loved one once a month or something; why doesn't anyone tell her that if she dies she won't see him at all?
This was my second try at reading a book by this author and again I was only moderately impressed. She does write well but this particular book seemed repetitive and went on a bit too long. I did enjoy the characters especially the frog (which will sound strange if you haven't read the book yet) and the sisters although Tati was seriously disturbed. The story was very predictable (especially the frog). Three stars because I did read the book to the end so I must have enjoyed some of it.:)
This is another pleasant book for young adult readers who are interested in fantasy...(can you sense an impending "however"?)At times, HOWEVER, I resented the editor, because it seemed like the arguments between Cezar and Jena acted as filler pages that prevented the story from moving forward.I also disliked the fact that it was nearly impossible to become attached to any of the sisters (besides Jena, who is the main character)though such an attachment or personal investment (on the reader's part) is the effect the author wanted to produce.
Perfection. I want to live in all of Ms. Marillier's worlds. <3
This was an amazing book.
She weaves together several classical stories: the Twelve Dancing Princesses, Transylvanian vampire lore, and others (I wouldn't want to give any twists away by saying which ones), and does so seamlessly and without a feeling that she's cramming it all in.
The only reason why this doesn't get five stars is because I wanted a big showdown with the real world villain, and while he was confronted, I kept waiting for Jena to give him a piece of her mind and she never did.
Still, the book was RIVETING.
I appreciated most of all how Marillier managed to mix two major fairy tales, The Twelve Dancing Princesses and The Frog Prince, with elements from Eastern European folklore like Baba Yaga (here in the character of the powerful wood witch Draguta) and legends involving vampires native from the setting, 16th century Transylvania.The latter was the element that had me doubting before starting this book, because I am not in the least interested in anything related to vampires, classic or modern, and that includes Stoker's version.
I never thought I'd say this about a Juliet Marillier book, but...
WHAT THE HELL WERE YOU THINKING?!!!I love Juliet Marillier.
I was wonderfully frustrated by Cousin Cezar's high-handed ways and Jena's helplessness in the face of his masculine dominance.
I was angry right alongside the frog-prince when Jena abandoned him and refused to believe in him.
Apparently falling in love gave her a severe case of anorexia nervosa and she had to be banished to a rehab centre far away from her sisters in order to keep her insanity from rubbing off on them (reading between the lines, of course).
I don't know why but I couldn't quite get into this book.There were good things and bad things about Wildwood Dancing.
I'll list the bad first-Beginning seemed to drag on-There wasn't enough of the Dancing Glade.
I wanted to punch her by the end of the book.-Tati was pathetic.
I wanted to know more about them.-There wasn't enough Gogu.
Haha can you tell I can't stand her?-Jena got Costi in the end...
I loved that she could be happy and Costi finally got what he wanted after being cheated out of it so many years before...Ehhh.
The oldest sister is a tad drippy for an adult reader, but I think I would have found her soggy wasting away intensely romantic when I was young.
The main fairy tale is also recognizable early on for the adult reader, but I know without a doubt I would have been just thrilled to recognize it gradually as a young reader, and then watch to see how expertly Marillier twisted it to make it exciting and not quite predictable.I do think that there are a lot of supposedly YA books put out now that appeal more to adults.
Slow beginning but it definitely had that "awww" moment!
A retelling of The Twelve Dancing Princesses and The Frog Prince, the story is set in Transylvania and told from the perspective of Jena, the second eldest sister out of five, all of whom visit the fairy realm through a secret passageway in their bedroom.When their ill father leaves Jena and her sisters for the winter, Jena is left in charge of the holding.
However, though capable and independent, Jena and her sisters run into trouble when their cousin attempts to take over the household's affairs in their father's absence.
Also, most of the issues in this story were resolved by outside forces, particularly Cezar's encroachment on Jena's holdings and Tati's heartsickness.
The portrayal in this book was excellent, the faerie queen was beautiful and deadly and respected.
The story is told from the perspective of Jena, the second oldest of five sisters who all live at Piscul Dracului (don’t worry, there is a pronunciation guide at the back of the book!) with their sick father and no mother.
There’s a longing for love, secrets whispered in the woods, in the dead of night, beneath the stars.
Wildwood Dancing is one of the most beautiful and dazzling fantasy works I've ever read, with so much immaculate detail and passion in the writing itself that it seems nearly surreal. This book is completely amazing and certainly worth reading.
Even for adult readers there's plenty to enjoy here, although if you haven't read any of Marillier's books yet, I'd recommend trying one of her adult ones first, preferably Daughter of the Forest.
Marillier's trying to weave in multiple fairy tales here, but an inherent problem with a "Frog Prince" is that the romantic hero has to appear as a frog.
But it's not only that: since Marillier's opened the door by trying to "teach" young readers, let's look at what this book is actually saying.
I probably will read the sequel, because I was entertained by this book and because I generally like this author's work.
It was just like everything that I love in books came together into one: whimsical worlds; fantastical creatures; 1800s-esque setting; strong female characters; beautiful writing; a proper antagonist; and overall just a good story, like an adult version of a fairytale.
When a creature from the Other Kingdom is found within the Transylvanian woods, Cezar sets out on a mission to find this world and destroy it - and once his mind is set on something, there's no convincing him otherwise.How can five teenage girls and a talking frog prevent the Other Kingdom from being destroyed?
This is my first read of Juliet Marillier, but now I know that I definitely want to check out the other books that she's written.
Set in a time when most everyone believed in the magic of the fairytale, the characters believed in what happened and thus does the reader.
I loved this book for all of this and, not to mention, the characters!
You all know how much I love good characters, so I LOVE when they grow to become my friends.
I enjoyed how each sister has a distinct persona, and each character had a very clear voice.
For those who enjoy fairy tales, I can't recommend this enough.
I feel absolutely no shame in admitting that I initially read this book solely because of the beautiful cover by Kinuko Craft.
I've loved her work for years, so when I say that the best thing about the book is the cover, that is by no means a slight against the writing.
Actually, Marillier writes quite lovely prose, and I liked her general take on the fairy world.However...
AND impossible quests for love.
And even with reducing the twelve princesses to five, most of the sisters were more character sketches (that I suspect owed more to Pride and Prejudice than anything else) than fully realized people.Still, Marillier is very good, and her dialog was mostly on point.
And oh, that cover!
Apesar de ser um universo diferente dos livros que li da autora, adorei igualmente esse mundo maravilhoso de magia e fantasia!!
