https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/922690.Dangerous_Corner
The play then ran for six months, and had subsequent worldwide success, as he says,"from the Arctic to the Amazon, and even now must appear in about dozen playhouses every night." However, he clearly had mixed feeling about the play, remarking earlier in 1938, "It is pretty thin stuff when all is said and done." His introduction goes on to say, "It has never been a favourite of mine, for it seems to me merely an ingenious box of tricks, which I constructed to prove - for it was my first play - that I could think and create like a dramatist, and not necessarily like a novelist, and also (view spoiler)[to make use of the device of splitting time into two, thus showing what might have happened, an idea that has always fascinated me." (hide spoiler)]It is possible to take this play to pieces and analyse how it works, if that is your wont.
Watched it yesterday at the local theater, which had great moments and very poor moments, but I was very intrigued with the idea. Then watched the Soviet 1972 film of it, and it was a masterpiece (though, there is a variant where they cut "the gay" out of there, I'm not sure what the audience was supposed to think). Anyway, polished it with reading the play and dear me, it still cuts deeply. Everyone lies and everyone loves, and it doesn't make them good or bad people. They are just... people.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:A happy gathering of friends begin to probe events which happened in the past and discover that the relationships they have with each other aren't what they seem: "truth is like skidding round a corner at sixty".Stars Martin Jarvis as Robert Caplan, Stephanie Turner as Olwen Peel, Heather Stoney as Freda Caplan and Helen Worth as Betty Whitehouse.Directed by Alfred Bradley.
DANGEROUS CORNER. (1932). J. B. Priestly. ****. It is difficult finding Priestley’s works anymore. He was a prolific writer, but has apparently gone out of style for today’s readers and theatergoers. This is an excellent drama that explores truth, lies, and guilt. We meet all of the principals in the opening scene. They are all members of the same firm, having a dinner together at the country house belonging to one of the partners. There are three married couples and two single people, one a man
It had belonged to one of the partners who, a year ago, had committed suicide by shooting himself.
He was a highly liked member of the group, and each of the guests begins to contribute tidbits about him and the possible reasons for the suicide itself.
A shot comes from the next room, and, once again the excuse of shooting at a flower pot is used.
Cigarettes are once again passed around using the music box.
Priestly once again demonstrates his cerebral style of writing and manages to pull the reader into a world that may or may not exist.
(view spoiler)[ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
As Freda Caplan (Robert's wife) offers Olwen Peel (a close friend) a cigarette, Olwen makes a throw away remark that she has seen the box before.
The play then ends with the exact same moment Freda offered Olwen the cigarette, only this time, Olwen’s comment is drowned out, Freda misses it, and the night continues to mask the deadly secrets we now know each character hides.This is Priestly’s point, that the facade is not only about what we are revealing (that is what we wish were true about ourselves) but also what we are concealing.
This play is BRILLIANT. From the first lines onward. WOW!!
B. Priestley was a popular, prolific British novelist and playwright who lived from 1894 to 1984 and whose most successful writing years seemed to be from 1930 to 1950.
He also seemed better at creating male characters than female.This is another one of his five time plays -- plays that experiment with flexible time, mixing the past, present, and future -- and to me, it's another of his less successful ones.
The problem is that we all know that what we think isn't always what we say, so finding out that other people's minds work the same way is no big surprise, and we don't need a writer, actors, and a theater to make that discovery.
Another applause for JB Priestley, I adored An Inspector Calls and I was really excited to study this book at school. The web of lies all come together in a spectacular way and my opinions on each character changed completely from start to finish. The originality is present in structure and themes. Again, Priestley proves that he is ahead of his time.
A melodramatic mystery with lots of twists and an interesting ending - similar to some of his other plays like An Inspector Calls. Also interesting that he wrote a different beginning and ending as an option for American theatres.
Despite this, there is very little action to keep things moving along, and the massive amounts of dialogue can make the play plod a bit.
Also the characters are entirely unsympathetic; I made the comparison to Waiting for Godot, in that the character you most want to meet never actually appears on stage.
Martin is clearly the most interesting person in the play, but we never actually get to meet him, which is a shame.
Nevertheless, an interesting premise that is reasonably well carried out, it's just hampered a bit by its own wordiness.
Essa definitivamente não é uma das peças mais famosas de Priestley, estando longe da popularidades de peças como O tempo os Conway e A chamada do inspetor.
Talvez o fato de ter sido encenada e filmada com alterações devido à censura tenha redundado na sua menor popularidade quando comparada com as anteriores.
Fato é que em tempos modernos A esquina perigosa não só é mais atual, como também a mais dramática.
Mais espantoso é o fato de ter sido escrita em uma época em que sequer tinha sido cunhada a expressão efeito borboleta, já tendo Priestley levado as últimas consequencias o incipiente problema dos três corpos proposto por Henri Poincaré.
Reading a Pristley-play always feels a bit like watching the author jump up and down in front of you, yelling 'Don't you see how clever I am? You simply must see that!'. This is so far the worst of the lot.
cool
A bit old fashioned in terms of speech, but an intriguing and interesting play, with a nice Dallas-style twist at the end.
