https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110265.Mountain_Man
Tidbit: In 1972, 5 years after Fisher's death, Warner Bros.
thought for some reason the book had become public domain and they made the movie for around $20 million dollars.
Four weeks before release, someone in legal found mention of an Opal Fisher in Prescott, Idaho.
He knocked on her door and explained he was from a tiny independent production company that was interested in the rights to Mountain Man. Opal let the man take her out to a steak house.
After she finished her cheesecake, she told him she wanted a million dollars, the opening to be in Boise, and funding for a chair in the Boise State English department.
I got the paperback version of the book back when the Robert Redford movie based on it came out.I have in my "reading life" gone through periods when I'd read almost exclusively from one genre.
The book follows the life of Sam Minard a hunter/trapper, "Mountain Man" in the Rockies during the mid 1800s.
Sam is not a violent man or at least no more so than life in the mountains demands, not until he loses almost all that means anything to him and goes on his own self imposed war path.A book i read long ago, but I remember it as an excellent read.
In MOUNTAIN MAN, Vardis Fisher fictionalizes the true accounts of John ‘Liver-eating’ Johnston (who was driven to revenge cannibalism against the Crow Indians after they slaughtered his squaw wife) and Jane Morgan (a frontier settler whose family was slaughtered on the Musselshell river).Vardis tones-down the true story, replacing cannibalism with the insulting removal of a bodily part, and by making Johnston (renamed Sam Minard) an educated & cultured Easterner (he plays classical tunes on his harmonica & knows Shakespeare) who finds his true, free self in the virgin forests of the majestic West.The writing is appropriately florid when need-be (such as in the descriptions of nature) and romantic as well (specifically, when he takes his very young wife and begins to bond with her).The inclusion of real historical Mountain Men as characters that Sam knows, and of accounts of some truly heroic events of famous mountain men were welcome treats.
I began reading this as a teen after finding it on my Dad's bookshelf.
I found a copy and re-read/finished it.
It is certainly not politically correct about Native Americans.
This is based on a true account of the life of John Johnson, whose native bride was killed by Crow tribe members.
This was not part of this fictional account.
This book inspired the film "Jeremiah Johnson." The author's books have always been controversial, because of his interests in anthropology, sexuality, and spirituality.
I read this book when I was in high school but had to add it to my goodreads shelf.
Anybody who saw the movie Jeremiah Johnson will absolutely love Fisher's novel.
The amount of detail in this book really transports you into the world of the mountain man.
But the book is so much more than that.
It is about a man who lives in an untamed world, far from any comforts or civilization, but he is happy.
Then, he wanders the wilderness seeking vengeance against those who stole away his love and happiness.
So enlightening about a true Mountain Man in the 1840's prior to the opening of the west.
Sam Minnard is unusual in that he is educated and wise beyong his years.
He is a mountain man by choice and hates to see the colonization of the wild west, with special disdain for Brigham Young and the Mormons.
He has a wonderful if short marriage to a lovely Indian girl.
. This book is so well researched and opened for me an understanding of those noble men who were so tough and resiliant .Little wonder they did not live long lives.
I couldn't put this book down.
I have no words to say about this FANTASTIC book. They just won't come. I was greatly moved after reading the last word. I may even wait a few weeks and read it again.
After all, I have always been fascinated by both Native Americans and the mountain men who got to know them, and to a large degree the history of the West is intertwined with the history of those two groups.I chose Mountain Man by Vardis Fisher as a way to get started.
I don't doubt he is representing them as some mountain men and others saw them, but the picture he paints is unnecessarily dark in my opinion.Never has a group of people been more respectful of the world around them than our Native Americans.I think Fisher might have done more to emphasize that fact.
You will live the awesomeness and terrors of this time in this place.If you travel through Wyoming, you will see many signs for Crazy Woman Creek, Crazy Woman River, etc., because there was a Crazy Woman here, and Johnston crossed paths with her in the most traumatic and terrible moment in the woman's life, taking her sanity in Nature's way of coping with the incopable.While I adore Robert Redford because of his protection of the west and his portrayal of Johnston, while I love the film, the book is a thousand times better.Jeremiah Johnston died in a Florida nursing home after spending his life in the mountains of Wyoming.
This book is what inspired the film.
And even though I love the movie - the book is better!
Vardis Fisher writes very well, and it seems like he reveals a brutal truth about the relationships between whites and the native tribes that is glossed over in movies.
I was transported to the wilderness as I read this book.
It's about loving life no matter what, fighting for the life you want, and thanking the Almighty to be part of the world.
The natural world, that is.
I felt like a tenderfoot after reading this.
"Aquel era un territorio para hombres, no para muchachos altos". Absorbente la lectura de Mountain Man, de Vardis Fisher. Más primitivo que el estilizado y noble Jeremiah Johnson del cine. Narrada desde el Mountain Man, es decir, con racismo, misoginia y fanfarronería, y también libre, sin leyes, sin reglas, sin corrección política, una vida salvaje y dura. Para mí, la mejor novela hasta ahora de la colección Frontera.
When I learned that this book inspired it, I had to read it.Sam Minard is a mountain man in the middle of the 1800's who roams the wilderness in what is today Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, South Dakota, and North Dakota.
Sometimes, he is taking a scalp from a brave that failed to kill him, and sometimes he is singing sonnets to the beauty of the mountain splendor.
He is a man torn by his need for vengeance and his love for all things wild, wonderful, free, and brave.
This was a decent book with a semi interesting story.
I understand this was written in the 1960s where this type of ultra masculine, racists behavior was acceptable.
Religion is bad.
I was hoping for a more romantic story of the old west, and instead was greeted with this racists masterpiece where scalping natives was a past time and justified because they were natives.
Glad this book is over.
Most of the book was written with a grammatically correct, very precise language and then suddenly it turns to this utterly revolting vernacular that was difficult to understand and want to read.
The fictional basis for the movie "Jeremiah Johnson", which is based on the non-fiction "Crow Killer".
Loved the movie when it came out and have seen it too many times to mention.
I've worn out 2 copies and am on my third, having read it about 25 times.It's the story of a youngish trapper, Sam, in the West of the 1840's.
He comes across a woman, the lone survivor of an attack by Indians.
Also based on a true incident in Montana.Sam decides to take an Indian wife and marries a young woman of the Flathead tribe.
Minard, a quien se retrata estupendamente, especialmente en su modo de vida libre y salvaje y en su entusiasmo por la vida y la naturaleza.
Destaca además por el importante tono descriptivo de la naturaleza así como del modo de vida de los tramperos y de las tribus indias.
Además, resulta muy acertado el retrato crepuscular que realiza de los tramperos y las tribus indias (crows y pies negros, esencialmente) quienes ven que su modo de vida libre, salvaje y de amor a la naturaleza está amenazado por la llegada de la "civilización" al Oeste.Otro acierto/joya más de la colección Frontera de Valdemar.
My first western novel and, while quite an adventure, it read a bit like how I imagine romance novels for men might read.
A bit sentimental in parts, and glossing over other parts to get at the sentimental again.
I didn't really get into any of the characters because I found them mildly annoying (a man obsessed with music and very cultured becomes a fierce mountain man scalper of red men?
Someone recommended this to me because I love adventure stories (yet stick to nonfiction) and liked the movie The Revenant.
I liked the parts that were clearly historical and researched, which leads me to believe I should stick to nonfiction for my adventure.
Fascinating novel of how a mountain man truly lived and survived in the west. The author brings to life everyday living these hardy men endured. Vivid descriptions of events that took place, you could actually feel and see them it is so well written. Living in Idaho right by Yellowstone and the areas he traveled it hit close to home. Was interesting to know I've been to some places that are described in this book. Couldn't put it down!
Finely paced...This book contains a deep and slowly moving current of characters and vicariously engaging experiences. It confirms for me that the deeds and lifestyle of these mountain men can only be understood in the anecdotal evidence of oral tradition and so felt authentic If spare, in historical reference.
This was a fun novel! It places Sam Minard, a fictional mountain man, trapping his way through the dangers of the western mountains at the height of the Rocky Mountain fur trade. Throughout the story he interacts with various historical mountain men as part of his journey. The book brings to life the rugged and dangerous life of the fur traders!
Super Hero Mountain ManA really interesting read. I don’t know how realistic it is and the author spends a little too much time in the main characters head, but all in all, it’s a cool story. It’s way better than “Jeremiah Johnson.” The only part that wouldn’t play well is the prevailing opinion of Native Americans in the book.
One of my favorite books that I have ever read. The movie "Jeremiah Johnson" starring Robert Redford was based on this book. I liked the movie a lot, and they did a pretty decent job of transforming the novel into the movie. But I loved the book.
If you can get passed the love story that takes place in the first part of the book, it starts to get really good.
read a long time ago. great read. basis for film with robert redford. worth an afternoon read.
watched Jerimiah Johnson again this evening and remembered thatthis is the book it was based on. I read it in high school and thought it was pretty good.
WonderousExcept for the editing, this story is outstanding. It is an array of color, high adventure, and undying love. A picture of an interesting time in our growing country.
Great story of the old west, but in a the harsh reality of a mountain atmosphere and the difficulty trying to be a mountain man in Native American country,.
This book was a farce of the old West. Not an intentional farce, mind you. We're supposed to believe that a mountain man would break into euphoric song everywhere he travels??? This story was so silly, I could not even bring myself to finish it. What a disappointing novel that is so highly touted by many readers.
I am more of a non fiction reader, but I did enjoy this book even though it is more than 50 years old. I was waivering between 3 and 4 stars!!
It felt less like a story and more like a character study.
As a character study it felt like it could have been 200 pages shorter.
Point being, instead of a story I read a lot about a man sitting around preparing food and thinking about classical music.On the positive side Fisher sketches some really great scenes where animals are the main actors.
Beyond these glimpses into the minds of animals, the third chapter, where Sam silently builds a cabin for Kathy, was one of the must unexpectedly human things I've had the privilege to read.
Whoever chose Robert Redford with his pretty little face and shiny blond hair to play the "Mountain Man" was obviously not interested in staying true to the book!Here's the thing about this book, way too much detail about what and how he ate.
Although when we have a natural disaster here I will be fully prepared and 100% knowledgeable in matters of how to gut a deer, buffalo and many other animals.
I will also know I can, (in times of horrible, horrible famine) be able to eat a warm liver just freshly gutted from a deer.
Another thing about this book, once again way, way too much detail about Kate and her insanity.
