https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25733966-smarter-faster-better
'The Power of Habit' had an active influence on my life and changed how I approach trying to achieve my goals, so I expected great things from 'Smarter Faster Better' as well.
At the end of reading this book, I'm actually a bit confused about what it was about: instead of having one cohesive theme, each story read like little bits of mini advice that didn't connect to a larger picture.
(And anyone who hasn't heard the story of the Post-It note at this point must be living under a rock.)Missed connections, no solid idea, and basic repackaging of other "pop psychology" books without presenting anything unique or new to the reader.
Some of the anecdotes are interesting, but the book is much too long. Let me save you many hours: making choices improves your motivation; if you're a manager, make it possible for team members to participate and make suggestions; use mental models to increase focus; use both short and long term goals; use forecasting/probability to improve decision making; improve creativity by mixing things up; and if you want to learn better, use the information and make it hard to absorb (it will stick better). You're welcome.
And psychological safety comes down to two things: - by everyone feeling that they have an equal voice, that everyone feels they can speak up ("equality in distribution of conversational turn-taking"), and - that the team has "'high average social sensitivity' - a fancy way of saying that the groups were skilled at intuiting how members felt based on their tone of voice, how people held themselves, and the expressions on their faces." (There was also another research study mentioned by Duhigg with a brief reference to "The good teams also contained more women." Not that I'm biased or anything...)"To create psychological safety, Brock said, team leaders needed to model the right behaviors.
"Be decisive" seems like fairly unimpeachable, if well-trodden advice.Until it backfires when an unprepared Israel is caught offguard in "the most traumatic event in [its] history" (the Yom Kippur War).
Did Air France 447 crash because the pilots were cognitively tunneling (as Duhigg asserts) or because instrumentation showed contradictory readouts (as the official investigation asserts)?
The answer depends on whether you're writing a lucrative book about cognitive tunneling.
To Duhigg's credit however, I channeled his motivation advice (reminding myself why doing this has meaning) – specifically, to note that this book is really dumb – appears to have worked.
This book could be written in less than 100 pages.
But the way Duhig weaves the ideas into relevant stories helps a lot with the solidification of the material.
So much so that after reading the book I can recite all the key ideas easily.
This book is (supposed to be) about productivity.
The first four chapters is allotted to the subject but the rest of the book is mostly about effective management, team work and how to spark innovation.
I enjoyed the book and have learned many important ideas from probabilistic thinking, and establishing psychological safety for effective team management ...
Kudos for using great stories to get across key concepts.
If you want to be productive, you'll need to make some key choices that other people don't seem to know are possible.
Those choices include how you choose to exercise control, connecting even the most mundane tasks with bigger purposes, learning to build mental models of the future and analyze whether they came into being, and more.
But don't take my word for it.
Instead, make these concepts concrete and part of your repertoire by reading Duhigg's examples of plane crashes, assembly line miracles, kidnappings, and more.
He gives compelling data of how visualizing our results, in fact help us achieve the desired outcomes.Every team and every manager should read with particular note the Google insights from their People Operations’ studies.
If your hiring practices skew toward A-list schools over A-rated results, you should question if your company is valuing pedigree or performance?If you would like to change the future, a best practice is charting your course by writing down measurable steps along the way.
This book is a must read for every team and manager that would like a data-based foundation of actionable steps to improve your job satisfaction and your results.
He is out with a new book this time, entitled— Smarter Faster Better: The Secrets of Being Productive and applies same relentless level of details, with numerous research studies and interviews, makes this one too, highly informative.Unlike The Power of Habit, Smarter Faster Better offers a variety of chapters, each different from the other in terms conceptual illustration and every chapter’s locus is on the key ideas of expanding productivity.
Some elements related to productivity discussed in this book are the mental state of a person’s mind in a particular situation.
The suggested examples for a particular element related to productivity are informative and situational.
A compilation of old ideas and insights recycled into a book.
The book was saved from a 1 or 2 star rating by chapter 6 on decision making which touched on the very important and less often covered topic of forecasting.
I was surprised to see an insightful introduction to thinking about the future as probability streams.
The Book in Three Sentences
Thinking about the future as a stream of probabilities that all exist until one comes true will maximize your odds of favorable outcomes over time - learn to think in bayesian fashion and practice playing poker.
Following his previous book, “The Power of Habit,” Charles Duhigg (New York Times) has written an interesting book on productivity and success at home and at the workplace.
Taking real life case studies, Duhigg examines what it means to be productive and common trends in smart, productive, successful people.
To this end, Duhigg gives eight common trends that promote productivity.
Finally, manipulating and working with data engages individuals and promotes success.The book is well written and broken out by chapter and section in a logical way.
As with his previous bestseller, Duhigg gives real anecdotes and case studies that proves the importance of the topic at hand.
I'm always wary of second books.
You can hear the publisher "this book is blowing off the shelves, have you got a followup?", and feel the the effort and speed "you gotta get this out while you're hot!".
However, this follow-up to the fantastic The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business is also excellent.
It's an excellent co-volume to The Power of Habit, with more science and techniques for personal productivity, and a fair bit on group dynamics and leadership, that I found especially useful.

Ugh, this book is so good, though it's been one long reminder of everything I'm doing wrong at work and in my personal life (but mostly at work). I'm reading through it again and taking copious notes, but there's a nice appendix at the back that does it for you. I also now know what Frozen is about so that's another plus.
Some ideas were better developed by other authors, but there was plenty of interesting anecdotes and insights to make this book worth reading.
3.5 dari 5 Bintang.Awalnya cukup sulit mencerna buku ini, dengan bahasa yang berat dan cukup sulit diterapkan, apakah saya benar-benar ingin mencobanya?
kalau tidak, apa gunanya?"Produktivitas adalah perkara membuat keputusan-keputusan tertentu dengan cara-cara tertentu" Hal. 282Tapi buku ini ditulis oleh Charles Duhigg!Ada hal yang menarik ketika Charles Duhigg menulis buku dan mencoba memengaruhi kita.
Salah satu ide yang saya suka ialah tentang narasi dalam diri kita akan membantu kita mengambil keputusan."Bayangkan apa yang akan terjadi.
Dengan mendorong diri membayangkan berbagai kemungkinan -sebagian diantaranya mungkin saling bertolak belakang - anda lebih siap untuk mengambil keputusan yang bijak." Hal. 279Meskipun cukup berat tapi percayalah buku ini berguna, provokatif dan sangat membuka pikiran.
If you're a big fan of the book "The Power of Habit" you're going to love Smarter Faster Better.
The 2 sentences that I would like to point out are: "The trick to motivation, researchers say, is realizing that a prerequisite to motivation is believing we have authority over our actions and surroundings.
To motivate ourselves, we must feel like we are in control." and "Motivation is triggered by making choices that demonstrate to ourselves that we are in control.
Smarter Faster Better didn't disappoint, it's a great book and it will make you more productive.
And we need to work on self leadership, that will allow people to take the empowerment and do something good with it.
(And this is all outside this book, there are many others that explain that more clearly and simply and a great example is Ken Blanchard).For better book about Google's culture, you should read Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore (it is also wrong, but at least very funny and doesn't try to be right).
For better books about teams read Patrick Lencioni's books (The Five Dysfunctions of a Team: A Leadership Fable and The Three Signs of a Miserable Job: A Management Fable About Helping Employees Find Fulfillment in Their Work).


Չգիտեմ ոնց ստացվեց, բայց գիրքը կարդացի մեծ ընդմիջումներով: Բայց շատ տպավորիչ գիրք է, շատ հետաքրքիր օրինակներով, լավ անգլերենով ու շատ մարդկային տոնոբ:
So telling young people they are smart reinforces their belief that success or failure is based on something outside of their control."We can help ourselves and others strengthen our internal locus of control by rewarding initiative, congratulate people for self-motivation, celebrate when an infant wants to feed herself.
When you find a new piece of information force yourself to engage with it, to use it in an experiment or describe it to a friend.
If I can't find a particular photo I will pose for one myself."Bayesian Instincts are something he talks about as a way to better understand the likelihood of certain outcomes as you make a decision.
I've read at least two dozen books on productivity - ranging from GTD by David Allen to OPA by Tony Robbins.
This is a book that doesn't teach you how to create your to do list but instead, it teaches you the psychological principles behind high performance.
I'm happy to say that this is a keystone book, just like "The Power of Habit" is.
While I was skeptical when it came to Charles Duhigg (mostly because pop psychology writers like Daniel Pink ruined the marketplace), I must say, he's the Malcom Gladwell of our current generation.
Секрети продуктивності в житті та бізнесі“ – Чарльз Дахігг.Автор цієї книги вже бив усі рекорди зі своїм поперднійм бестселером “Сила звички” (додано в “to read”) та націлився знову повторити власний успіх, адже його новий доробок миттєво опинився у топовій десятці «Amazon» та «The New York Times».Чому деякі люди за однакових умов досягають більшого, ніж інші, — і щодня, і у великій перспективі?
Duhigg's last book, The Power of Habit, was a really tight, focused examination of the psychology of goals and habits.
Smarter Faster Better, however, feels like an unconnected dump of ideas.
The sales pitch is that the book will tell you how to become better (and smarter and faster) and more productive.
When you look at the table of contents, you see that each chapter addresses a productivity topic, like motivation, goal setting, working in teams, innovation, et cetera.
However, once you get into the chapters, you see that they're just a collection of concepts loosely related to each chapter title.
I have also placed it on my Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and Google Plus pages.I requested this book as I had previously read and reviewed Charles Duhigg's "The Power of Habit".
I thoroughly enjoyed the book and found it very useful for myself and personally recommended it to a number of people.Smarter, Faster, Better falls into the same category as "The Power of Habit".
Duhigg's ability to make the subject engaging through the use of numerous examples makes the book a quick read.
I will definitely be personally recommending this book as well.
There's nothing like an author who comes back in exactly the same form they had four years ago.
And how does he teach us?
Terrifying, heartwarming, creative, wonderful stories of people figuring out tough problems like landing severely damaged planes or sending inner-city kids to college.
Every set of stories teaches a simple truth about motivation, teams, decision-making, and so on.
And because they're stories, your human brain remembers the lessons: give people control, make them feel safe, and always, always take notes by hand.Written with journalistic verve and fact-checked like there's no tomorrow, this is bound to become just as classic as his first book.
With “the Power of Habit”, Charles Duhigg gave us accessible insight into human habit forming behaviours, and how they could be used in marketing products and messages.
With his second book, “Smarter Faster Better”, he gives us a roadmap on how to build effective, motivated, and functional teams.
Irrespective of the industry, goals, and pressures which we all face in our daily lives, this book gives insight on how we can achieve our goals with more efficiency and less friction.
Using facts, science, and concrete examples, Charles Duhigg has arguably given us one the best books on business and team building ever written.
‘Smarter, Faster, Better’ – a look at how individuals, teams, companies and families can improve on their productivity. Written in the usual step 1. Tell a story, step 2. Tell another story. Step 3. Briefly cover how these relate to a sub-topic of productivity. Step 4. Conclude stories and relate them. It’s more story telling, than actually covering the topics, but this engages better than just plain information.I listened to the audiobook passively while traversing Spain. I can't say I remember much.Here is a summary from someone else: http://brandgenetics.com/smarter-fast...
Too long... tons of anecdotes (some of which were pretty interesting) but I wanted actionable tips on how to be more productive. I got a few nuggets here and there but overall I would skip this one. Blah.
Tells us how to be more productive human beings in eight steps, each of which are supported by a series of specific examples.
Unfortunately, most of the examples are either bland, predictable, or stories I had heard before.
And it is funny how everyone telling this story of the transformed GM plant seems to leave out the name of the car that was being produced via this manufacturing miracle: It was the Geo Prism.
But whatever nice things you want to say about it, the car is not the product of any kind of "miracle," manufacturing or otherwise.
