https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1438436.The_Jolly_Barnyard
Ian likes anything with animals, but I have to laugh everytime I read this. "Gosh, that farmer is great. He takes such good care of us. He can eat me and my children!!"
What was fun and enjoyable about this was the fact that even though it seems that farmer is celebrating by treating his animals as an adult reader I am wondering isn't this part of his chores anyway?
As a result you really get to visit the farm as you allow young readers to read this book to you or if you read it to them (just to keep it fun as well as interactive have the children make the animal sounds before you read their answer).
This has been a favorite since I was a young child, and is a favorite for my children as well
Then, we went to europe for seven years and left this book- almost all of our books- in storage.
When we came back to the States and got our stuff out of storage, my older girls (20, 18, 16 and 12 at the time) dug 'The Jolly Barnyard" out of a book box and all ran into our bedroom, hopped on the bed and said "Dad, read us The Jolly Barnyard!" What a joyous moment for me.
P.S. All six of my kids are readers- you bet!
This is a good book for teaching barnyard terms, rhyme, and charting. Each animal got x food and gave each gift.
This was easy to read and a fun way to introduce barn animals to kids. Very lovely story and beautiful illustrations.
I enjoyed reading this book and liked how the author described all the animals jobs on the farm.
Kids will love this fun story as the animals decide what they are going to do for Farmer Brown's Birthday.
I don't know what children love about books with animals, but my toddler loves this one. We read it multiple times a day.
Nice book for little ones.
In the 1950s, it probably went by without anyone batting an eyelash, but in 2013, I'm kind of amazed that some of the more nutbaggish animal-rights groups haven't been all over this book.
It raised my eyebrows, and the only thing I like better than turkey on Thanksgiving is stuffing scooped straight outta the bird (and fie on those who tell me I'm courting food poisoning).
If you are affiliated with, or sympathetic to, said nutbaggish animal-rights groups, check this one out of the library before deciding whether you want to add it to the permanent collection; everyone else, harvest a pound or so of cranberries before cracking this one open.
It's Farmer Brown's birthday and he is taking care of all his farm animals. The animals later share what they each will give Farmer Brown for his birthday.This cute and colorfully illustrated book which is written in rhyme is a charming short story for little children to enjoy. It is a good book for the children who love farm stories or for those who want to introduce their children to farm animals.
My Grandma read this book to me as a child in the 50's, I read it to my kids in the 80's and now to my grandkids. It has also been released as The Happy Farm Animals. It has wonderful rhyming verse and beautiful illustrations, plus it teaches all the farm animals and their sounds. I know the words by heart and so do my kids.
The Jolly Barnyard was originally published in 1950. So its illustrations are bit old, but good. The storyline is silly but interesting. All the barnyard animals get together and think of nice things they can do for Farmer Browns birthday. This is a good book to use to talk about being nice and helpful.
"The Jolly Barnyard" in a wonderful story for young readers. It takes the reader on a tour of a farm. Animal noises and scenes are present throughout this short story. I would share this with a young class. It would keep the attention of the little ones.
A children's classic that is a little dated now, which leads to hilarity The best part is when the animals are explaining what they are going to do for Farmer Brown's birthday. The Turkey pledges to decorate the farmer's table. How incredibly selfless!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12682717
This was a nice, quick little read about a good farmer on his birthday.
I remember loving this when I was very small. Definitely recommend it for other kids.
it shows the relationship between a farmer and his animals and how they take care of each other.
A great childhood story.
This is a wonderful story to help teach children about farm animals and what humans do with the animals and what the animals do for us. Easy, cute, fun read
I have always liked this book. Our little ones liked it a lot.
I remember this book vaguely. The cover illustration tells me that I read this book as a very small child.
This was my favorite book as a little girl. I now get to read it to my niece and nephew.
This was a golden book that I always had loved when I learned to read. And I didn't even know it was a golden book!
4
Second tier Golden Book
Another favorite from the Golden Books collection.
Good use of personification.
