https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633198.The_Burning_Hills
I was looking for a western to read and decided to re-read Louis L’Amour.
The book is more of a romance story than what L’Amour usually writes.
L’Amour is famous for placing his story in a real location.
If the reader goes to the location they can follow the book description step by step.
L’Amour is a master storyteller.
The great thing about his books is you can read them over and over with great enjoyment each and every time.This time I read the book as an audiobook downloaded from Audible.
The book is four hours.
Keith Szarabajka does a good job narrating the book.
Szarabajka is a well-known actor and audiobook narrator.
Trace Jordan is an easy going cowboy, who has only killed 6 men in his life!He rounds up wild horses to make a few bucks, a man has to eat.
Coming back from grocery shopping,he finds his horses and gear missing and by the way his partner killed.This annoys him a little.After a long ride running away from the bad guys and shooting a few.Jordan with a hole in his side, is saved by a pretty young widow.
Did anyone imagine the cowboy would die!
What a lucky break!Maria Cristina the girl and Trace the man, are eventually properly introduced.
The setting was the Arizona- Mexico border so the characters and their situations of that region were represented accurately along with the historical context.The hero, Trace Jordan, was not deeply developed, but enough so that I got a feel for him and what motivated him.
Maria Christina was his only female voice, but I loved the way he captured her personality and the emotion of the overall story.It was an easy listen, exciting, and engaging novella-length story and I definitely recommend it for Western fiction fans.My thanks to Penguin-Random House for the opportunity to listen to this book in exchange for an honest review.
My rating 3.5 stars.
An early L'Amour novel, a little leaner and grittier than his later books. An entertaining chase story from the master.
Our hero sets off to kill the horse thieves who shot his bronco-busting partner, but they turn out to be part of the biggest ranch families in the area.
"I KEEL YOU!" she screams."Aw, you just ain't been halter-broke yet!" he shouts back as they wrestle back and forth.Somehow treating this angry woman like a wild horse that needs to be broken turns out to be just the right thing to do and they wind up together in the end, shooting a bunch of bad guys and Indians along the way.
Die Geschichte ist so packend wie ergreifend: Ein Typ erschiesst einen anderen Typen, wird daraufhin selbst angeschossen und flieht durch die Wüste.
Doch obwohl er so gut versteckt ist, dass ihn nicht einmal seine Verfolger aufspüren können, findet ihn rein zufällig eine heisse Mexikanerin, die sonst Schafe hütet.
Die Mexikanerin ist seine grosse Liebe.Nicht nur die Handlung dieses Romans ist fein ausgearbeitet; Louis L'Amour gelingen auch interessante Perspektivenwechsel in ein und demselben Satz - und dank zahlreicher Wiederholungen vergisst man nie, dass die Verfolger den Verfolgten wirklich weiterhin verfolgen.Fazit: Wir sind uns sicher, dass Louis L'Amour eine Western-Maschine besass, die 300 Wörter beinhaltete und diese immer wieder zu neuen Romanen mischte.
More wonderfully descriptive writing that made me want to watch westerns for the rest of the week. My only problem was with the female lead character. Sometimes she spoke with a stereotypical mexican accent: "I will keel you!" "You will be keel!" and sometimes she didn't: "They killed my father!"It was distracting at times, but so what. I mean, I don't really care about anything.I am a nihilist!
"A man can't make it alone. Needs him a woman. These here city women, they look mighty nice but a man out here needs a woman who can walk beside him, not behind him."
The book had lots of suspense, and wherever you stopped reading something else was going to happen.
The book then leaves you with another cliff hanger by making you wonder if Maria will meet Trace after he runs away.
They end up meeting each other but they go through a lot of action and fighting to get away.
Girls who are into action might also enjoy this book, and they maybe would like the romance.
If you are someone who does not like reading you would enjoy this because there is always some action going on.
This novel, though, shows a non-white woman in the Mexican border region of California who is forced to accept an asshole hero gunfighter as her 'protector' and partner, after he rescues her from the bad guys.
He simply forces himself on her and she reluctantly relents and accepts him.
This novel does show how awful non-white women's circumstances may have been during the Wild West era, but I was really annoyed at the ending and was rooting for the bad guys or at least for the Apaches by the end.
This is the 72nd Louis L'Amour book I've read.
Wow, I can't believe I just typed that.
I started when I was about 12 and have just kept on reading them.
But this one was also a bit different from most L'Amour novels in that our hero actually spends a fair amount of time pursuing a woman.
Usually women play minor roles or else are the main character.
But the romance is usually left to the imagination after the novel ends.
I'd rank this one in the top 10% of the L'Amour novels I've read so far.
As a kid I loved westerns. Somewhere along the line I completely lost touch with the genre while exploring sci-fi, fantasy, history, historical fiction......etc. One of my ex-bosses was a serious L'Amour fan so he was always in the back of my mind to check out. A promo on amazon kindle was the spark and I am so glad I did. It might not be high literature but it certainly took me back more than a few years in a short and captivating journey. I'm hooked
Wounded in a feud with the Suttons, Trace Jordon flees into the desert where he collapses. He is found by the beautiful Maria and learns that her family has also suffered at the hands of the Suttons. As they try to escape through the desert they also have to contend with the Apache.
The subconscious as a psychological concept wouldn't come up for some 40 or 50 years after the events in this novel.
Still, if I were writing this novel, I'd have left the word out of it altogether, just to keep the story in its proper time.This story was written about a year after my previous read, Crossfire Trail, and during the first half of the book I couldn't help but think he had reverted to a more primitive style.
This problem is rectified in the second half, though.It's otherwise a great read.
Trace Jordan is an easy going cowboy who has only killed 6 men in his life.
This book is a good text to world book because it is describes the land like it was in the old days.For text to self i cant relate very much because I've never been shot are shot at.But if somone killed my friend I would want revenge.
For text to text the book is very ratlateable to other western books that I have read.
I think that its a lot like the other Louis L'amour books that I have read.
And I enjoyed reading this book.

1956 Western by author L'Amour has a thin plot and little character development.
Essentially a chase story through the SW desert, it would seem to have cinematic possibilities, and indeed it did become a 1956 movie with screenplay by Irving Wallace and starring Tab Hunter and Natalie Wood.Western - Badly wounded, fleeing from his implacable enemies, Trace Jordan tried to escape into the burning heat of the Texas Flat.
and Maria Cristina, the extraordinary woman who nursed him back to health.
When they did, Trace knew it would be deadly foolish to take Maria Cristina with him...
Louis L'Amour never disappoints when I need a little western to brighten my day and travel back in time to when the nation was young and west still untamed and well in control of the native population (in this case, Apache). Horse thieves, big ranch outfits, fierce independence, big hearted women, bad men and honorable heroes all on the open plains. Overly romanticized for sure, but a tall tale makes for a great distraction.
Did not finish because sexual assault is NOT an acceptable courtship technique!!!!!I also didn't like the concept in this book that the only reason a man would seek a peaceful resolution of a conflict is because that man is a weak unmanly coward. I was yelling at the book after awhile and so just DNF'd it.
Not one of L'Amour's best and got half way through before I remembered that I disliked this book the first time through. Story is OK but the developing relationship between the main character and female are not all like his other books. Rough treatment and misogyny are not characteristics of his other books and does nothing for the story line.
More of a romantic than I am used to reading from Louis L'Amour, this books includes his characteristic fighting when you must to an unyielding resolve to do overcome the challenges that we face in life.
Don't you love a classic western novel?
I never read any L'Amour but I read both his Burning Hills and There's Always a Trail because I needed light, fun books to read when I was trekking in Nepal. And both books were great!
Another good oneL'Amour is always so descriptive you can picture it all as if you were there. I always enjoy his books.
Good story combining several elements not usually found together.
Louis L’Amour is the king of westerns, so I guess westerns just aren’t my thing! Although they are somewhat obligatory on a road trip to mountain country.
Audio version. well read classic western
Trace and his partner have rounded up wild horses, branded them and are in the process of breaking them.
Upon returning from getting supplies in town, Trace finds his horses gone and his partner shot in the back (several times).
While in town, he recognizes one of his horses and confronts the man who "owns" it.
A gunfight ensues; Trace kills the other man and the man wounds him.
A young Mexican woman finds him and treats his wounds.
But the knowledgeable reader and student of writing will also note that L'Amour took great pride in 'riding the trails of which he wrote'...there is an element of reality in his books not present in pulp westerns at that time, and he in fact changed and deeply enriched the tone of the entire genre.
One of the first Sackett novels, it is maybe 118 pages at the most, actually a novella by modern standards...but it sets up beautifully the one-just-man-against-very-heavy-odds scenario that you'll see in Westerns from Shane and 12 O'Clock High through 3:10 to Yuma and High Plains Drifter.
