https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34497.The_Color_of_Magic
It is, to be fair, both a very readable and a very short book (65,000 words - a short fantasy these days is ~100,000 words).I was surprised to find how much of this I remembered, especially as I last read it 28 years ago!It's a very funny book with some GREAT one-liners.
I particularly liked one that said about men falling foul of the thieves' guild (I paraphrase) '...
Pratchett has an incredibly rare talent for compressing humour into one-liners that are witty, incisive, and yet never feel mean - it's not jokes that you feel are directed _at_ anyone, just mined from the stuff of life.I had a great time revisiting this book and if you've not tried it - now's the time!Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes....
Also, some of Pratchett's ideas were a little too "out-there" for me...I knew this was going to be a problem right away, when Pratchett begins the book by revealing that Discworld is a planet that is carried on the backs of four elephants who are all standing on the shell of a giant turtle that is floating through space..."This is an awful lot to throw at me on page one, Mr. Pratchett!"Also, while "The Color of Magic" works beautifully as a comedy, I'm afraid the actual story doesn't quite hit the mark.
I'd read Terry Pratchett's & Neil Gaiman's Good Omens quite a while ago, so I expected at least a hint of satire and politically conscious wit, but I had no idea which of the authors to blame for the smart laughs in Good Omens, and my recollections really shed no illumination on what was to come.
I know why I liked The Colour of Magic, and while I imagine there are other reasons to like the story, I think it is probably a fairly inaccessible tale unless you are a reader who falls into a niche of accessibility.
I will officially be reading the entire Discworld series!

Everyone seems to suggest that a new reader should not start with the first book, so this must be partially my fault for doing it anyway.The Colour of Magic is at best a mediocre introduction to what is supposedly the best humourous fantasy series ever written, by the legendary Terry Pratchett.
While the total lack of a coherent plot is understandable in a series based on humour, the lack of humour is really not.That does not mean I didn’t enjoy the book.
I am not discouraged from reading more books in the series, and I both hope and choose to believe that they are of a much higher quality than this first one.
داستان‌های این مجموعه، در جهانی به نام «دیسک‌ ورلد» می‌گذرند، که صفحه‌ ای صاف است، و بر شانه‌ های چهار فیل بسیار بزرگ قرار دارد.
در این مجموعه، بارها از کتاب‌های نویسندگانی همچون: «جی.
لاوکرافت» و «ویلیام شکسپیر» با طنز یاد شده‌ است.
این مجموعه، در برگیرنده ی بیش از چهل رمان، یازده داستان کوتاه، چهار کتاب علمی؛ و چندین کتاب مرجع و مکمل نیز هست.
از این مجموعه چندین رمان تصویری، بازی کامپیوتری، نمایش تئاتر، مجموعه ی تلویزیونی نیز برداشت شده‌ است.
I'm glad I finally took the time to find out that these two books, The Colour of Magic and The Light Fantastic, jointly comprise the first tale in the series, and that they were definitely worth reading.The Diskworld books are essentially satire of the high fantasy genre, or at least that's the foundation upon which everything else is built.
While it's nice to see Pratchett's considerable imagination and humor on display as we go from situation to situation, the first book reads like an extended doodle with little plot and a whole "gods playing games with mortals" subtext that's entirely dropped in the next book.
If I hadn't already read the entire series, and if I was judging this book just by its own merits, I'd still be saying that it harnesses the lightning and even finds a way to make it go side to side rather than up and down.It's really fantastic as a straight fantasy with tons of humorous elements, with a good deal more worldbuilding than all the later books, more obvious and harsher tongue-in-cheek elements, and a great setup for the Great Wizzard Rincewind.Honestly?
"There is humor in 'Dod Grile', but for every laugh that is in his book there are five blushes, ten shudders and a vomit.
After finding this one unpalatable, a friend suggested I try one of his later books, so I started Moving Pictures, but while it was more competently crafted, I found it no more amusing.
I guess you can't trust your friends.I've since been told to try another of his books--most often Night Watch and Small Gods are mentioned, but I find it impossible to work up any enthusiasm for another outing with Pratchett--perhaps one day, I'll get there.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
This has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move." - Douglas Adams, The Restaurant at the End of the Universe"Disc philosophers agree that the First Men, shortly after their creation, understandably lost their temper." - Terry Pratchett, The Color of MagicThe Color of Magic tells the story of Rincewind, a cowardly fake wizard who happens to carry the most powerful spell in the Discworld in his mind.
I'm eternally jealous of Twoflower for owning walking luggage - I have to drag my possessions everywhere.I love Terry Pratchett's ability to make fun of corruption, greed, cowardice, and other evils so common in the world without coming off as bitter or even very critical.
Also, this series has so many books that I will probably never be able to finish it, which kept me from reading it in the first place.
Apart from the fact that they always seemed a bit too ridiculous to actually be good.Now, I did catch myself laughing a few times and generally enjoying it much more than I thought I would.
Apart from that, the stories are fast-paced, imaginative and exciting.
It won't take long for me to pick up the sequels, I'm sure.Find more of my books on Instagram
A charming and sometimes tedious novel, Rincewind grew on me quickly and I enjoyed watching him get into and out of scrapes along the way.
His optimism seemed misplaced sometimes, but he had good intentions.A nice start to the series, plenty of action and some humor :) The scenes with Krull and near the edge of the world were one of my many favorites...
I sympathize with Rincewind and the vertigo sensation of looking over the edge *shudders* I'd rather stay on land thanks.It seemed alot to cram into one novel, at times my eyes glazed over and I had to re-read a couple passages.
It had some funny moments, but I really struggled to get through it.
In all fairness to the people who suggested I read the Discworld series, this is not one of the ones they said I should start with.
I think I mostly had a hard time slogging through all of the world-building and made up words.
Fantasy has never been my thing, because I'm not someone who enjoys reading descriptions of the characters surroundings.
I'm not giving up on the series, though.
I think I'll just go back through my book recommendations and find the ones I was told to start with.
Tengo que decir que me ha sorprendido agradablemente; pues no esperaba que fuera a gustarme ni que disfrutara tanto con las locas aventuras de Rincewind.
Zasto sam ovoliko dugo cekala da zakoracim u Disksvet?! I ako bi neko od starosedelaca mogao da mi kaze kako da nabavim Prtljag od kruskovog drveta mudrosti, cini mi se da je pametno imati jedan ;)
Precisely why all the above (below, in this review, I guess) should be so is not clear, but goes some way to explain why, on the disc, the Gods are not so much worshipped as blamed. Have you ever wondered about what would happen if you were merely a pawn in a game played by gods? Have you ever wondered about how living in a Flat-Earth would be? Would you like to learn about what failed wizards do in their free time? Are you curious about how dragons are born and how they rest? Do you want to un
However, if you're a pragmatist, and lack imagination, I would suggest you steer clear of the book.Welcome to Discworld; the land of the strange and scary, of the weird and wonderful.
Journey along with sarcastic and cynical Rincewind, a failed wizard, and Twoflower, a tourist under his care.
The city of Ankh-Morpork perhaps best explains human beings as a species.
There is an escape into the world of Dragons, through an actual aeroplane (like the ones we have on Earth), and onto the Circumfence, yes, Circumfence, not circumference, because you do need a fence at the rim of the Discworld.
For years, everyone I knew--friends, family, students, co-workers--would ask me if I had read Hitchhiker's and their mouths would drop when I admitted no, I hadn't .
It's like it was written for YOU!" By the time I got around to reading it, there's no way it could have lived up to the expectations that had been percolating for years.
I'll admit, Pratchett has a way with words and there was the occasional turn of phrase in response to which I made that air-escaping-from-the-nose sound that's not full bodied enough to be considered a snort of laughter.
Not sure what Sir Terry intended (he had a cameo in the movie so he must have known about the interpretation of Rincewind for the screen) but he seems to be younger in the books than in the movie.Book Rincewind on covers: Movie Rincewind (right): And yes, the actor reminds me a bit of a male Maggie Smith with his gestures and facial expressions (he is as cynical and grumpy as the Dowager Countess Grantham after all).The story then concludes with a quite literal cliffhanger (bad play of word, I know) and picks up immediately at the start of the next book so technically they belong together.Now, for the actual impression.I can see why many have told me not to start the series with the first book.
I first read this book many years ago and I remember I fell in love with the Disc World as soon as I read the first few pages.
I loved the idea of the turtle swimming through space and the elephants and the rim fall and the eighth colour in the spectrum called octarine.
Twoflower and Rincewind were the first of many of Pratchett's characters I would meet who are so helpless and yet who blunder successfully through mishap after mishap.
I have just reread this book in honour of Terry Pratchett after his recent death.
I am back in the Disc World and loving it:)
suspira....Mientras mas alto pongo mis expectativas, mis caídas son peores, y al parecer con esta caeré, caeré y seguiré cayendo. Amo la magia, los dragones, y reconozco la creatividad y humor de Pratchett; entonces ¿Qué paso? una lógica tan profunda como Alicia en el pais de las maravillas, unos saltos de trama que me desenfocaban, y el final.... (view spoiler)[Toda la Creación estaba esperando que Rincewind cayera. Y lo hizo. No parecía tener otra alternativa.  (hide spoiler)]ese final... pens
una lógica tan profunda como Alicia en el pais de las maravillas, unos saltos de trama que me desenfocaban, y el final....
(view spoiler)[Toda la Creación estaba esperando que Rincewind cayera.
No entiendo, se que el mundodisco tiene muchos fans, que es una de las sagas fantásticas mas amadas, ¿entonces...?
esta historia tal vez no sea para mi...Haré algo que nunca he hecho en mis reseñas, pido a todos los fans de Pratchett que andan por esta red que me expliquen que pudo haber pasado, ¿Debí empezar por otro libro?
¿En las continuaciones se atan todos los cabos sueltos que se dejaron?
Ook :(
1) Because, of the authors mentioned whose work is being joked upon or referenced or whatever, I've read very little to none at all, and therefore would be quite the opposite of the intended audience, if, as I would presume, the audience is intended to get the jokes and/or references.
Zelazny did the same thing with A Night In The Lonesome October, and even though I had read much more of the referenced and hinted at works he incorporated into his story, and so should have been more "in the know" and thus able to enjoy it more, I didn't.
Along with his Luggage and magic picture-taking box Twoflower encounters the wizard Rincewind who gets recruited as his guide to the wonders of the Discworld.
From there, adventures ensue in the city of Ankh-Morpork, the Temple of the Sender of Eight, a hive of Dragonriders and eventually the edge of the Discworld itself.The first of the series is very much a satire of the whole fantasy field.
The Patrician of Ankh-Morpork is introduced here, but he is just Generic Shrewd Ruler, rather than the razor-sharp mastercrafter of civilization that he is in later books.
Rincewind who's an incompetent, dull-witted wizard found himself acting as a tour guide for the naive, gullible, and painfully optimistic Twoflower who had just arrived in Ankh-Morpork hoping for an unforgettable adventure.
Tourists, Rincewind decided, meant Idiot.The Colour of Magic is a series of adventures and unfortunate events between a cynic wizard and a happy-go-lucky tourist.I don't think I've ever laughed this hard after  Good Omens, another fun satirical book.
Much like the title promised, the book is full of colour and magic (don't expect too much from Rincewind though.
If you want a fun read then this book is something to be reckoned with.'It was octarine, the colour of magic.
I read this book way back in high school, when I lived in England.
Having forgotten everything except for the fact that there was a trunk that liked to eat people, I bought the book (again) to see how it stood up these many years later.
And at least a couple of the characters were spoofs of two of my favorites: Fafhrd and Grey Mouser.I must admit that I also liked Rincewind, the bungling wizard.
I couldn't figure out why he changed so much through the book, so I'm left to speculate.Maybe he became jaded after high school, just like me.
The Color of Magic is hilarious, packed with great ideas, sharp observations and some damned funny satire of both the fantasy genre and modern life - Twoflower's attempts to get one of the rough cutthroats of Ankh-Morpork to understand inn-sewer-ants (Insurance) being one particular standout.Beyond its own brilliance, this novel is the foundation of an enduring and often very entertaining series of forty-one books, of which Small Gods, The Light Fantastic, Sourcery and Guards!
4 stars
Zany, wild, preposterous, and oh so fun—I understand the Discworld hype and see why it's such a fan favourite.But underneath all the light humour is clever trope subversion and a sense that Pratchett knows exactly what he's doing, more so than just a few laughs.This first installment isn't an immediate favourite, but it's a promising start to a series I'm looking forward to reading. I know there are a ton of Discworld reading guides out there, but I'm a stickler for published order and I'm going with that.
This was the perfect pick me up after the depressing, depressing, depressing downer if The Road by Cormac McCarthy. I laughed out loud reading this and that is not something I do very often. Rincewind is a new favorite character and Terry Pratchett is a new favorite author. I'm not sure I would have loved this as much I I hadn't been in the perfect mood for it. But, I was in the perfect mood and I did love it.
