https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250024.The_City_and_the_Stars
The story behind this fear of venturing outside the city tells of a race of ruthless invaders which beat humanity back from the stars to Earth, and then made a deal that humanity could live—if they never left the planet.
All the currently existent people of Diaspar have had past "lives" within Diaspar except one person—Alvin, the main character of this story.
He is one of only a very small number of "Uniques", different from everybody else in Diaspar, not only because he does not have any past lives to remember, but because instead of fearing the outside, he feels compelled to leave.
Now decades later other sf readers are still going on about him and popular contemporary sf authors still cite him as an influence, clearly I must have made a mistake and shortchanged him (or myself) terribly.While reading The City and the Stars I had a sort of epiphany, I realized that great science fiction does not need to have great character development if other aspects of the book is good enough to compensate for this shortage.
Clarke's world-building talent and attention to details is seriously awe-inspiring, the only possible complaint is that the characters tend to be a little flat.
puta) kroz glavu su mi letjele sve one knjige koje su napisane poslije ovoga.
A zadnja rečenica: "Ali negdje drugdje zvijezde su još bile mlade i jutarnje rumenilo se ukazivalo; a putem kojim je nekada hodao, Čovjek će jednog dana ponovno zakoračiti." pokazuje Clarkovu vjeru u čovječanstvo.
Malo mi je i drago što danas nije živ da ne vidi svu silu i govana, i ratova, i mržnje koja se obasipa svuda oko nas.
Sigurno ću se vratiti ovoj knjizi još koji puta.
Stvarno, čitajući ovaj roman, pred oči vam iskače cijela jedna epoha SF romana koji je stavljaju kao temelj svega onoga što je nekada vrijedilo; i u knjigama i u ljudima.
The problem, of course, is that our picture of the universe changes radically every couple of decades (dark energy was identified in the late 90s), so projections of what's going to happen in an illion zillion years' time are rather unlikely to have any contact with reality.At least it's no easier for science-fiction writers.
Here, Clarke tries to imagine Earth one billion years from now, but it's more or less the 50s with slightly better technology.
Once we learn of the true origins of Diaspar and Alvin makes it outside the city, the momentum stabilizes and the plot begins to meander in several unspecified directions without ever quite making it back on the road.Moreover, Alvin is able to fulfill his deep sense of wonder without so much as a hiccup along the way, and this allows little room for character development.
With no small irony, it's the point at which humans return to the stars that the story begins to flag.
4.0 to 4.5 stars.
Another superb novel by one of the greatest science fiction writers of all time.
One of Clarke's earlier works, this is actually a re-write of [book:Against the Fall of Night|33841 and thus does not read like an early novel.
Well written and full of BIG, BIG ideas it is classic Clarke.
Along with Isaac Asimov, no one writes better about big concepts and big ideas.
This book is a true treasure for any fan of Clarke or any fan of "big idea" science fiction.
This hardcover edition is copy 40 of 250 produced and is signed by Robert Silverberg (Introduction) Bob Eggleton, Who produced the cover and interior illustrations.
The ideas, and their intensity, even the language at several places, used in this book surpasses at least fifteen of his other titles that I have read so far !Having published this book in 1956 is a great achievement I would say considering the imagination involved that passes a billion years into the future, by not involving simply humanity, but goes as wide as outside of space and time at one moment.
Ceva lipseşte. În acest Univers se lăsă noaptea. Umbrele se lungeau către un est ce n-avea să mai cunoască alţi zori. Dar altundeva, stelele erau încă tinere şi lumina dimineţii zăbovea; şi într-o bună zi, Omul urma să pornească iarăşi pe drumul străbătut cîndva...
If the people of Diaspar were obsessed with preventing 'illegals' from migrating to and enjoying their gilded lives it would seem very close to the attitudes of several present day nations)As a result of this fear, their cycle of rebirth and the very design on their environment the culture of Diaspar is static, remaining unchanged for millions of years, on one hand being laudably stable, on the other oppressively stagnant.Into this fixed culture comes Alvin, a man known as a 'unique' - a person who has had no prior lives, has no memories of any life but the one he is living.
The spectre of the invaders, the mystery of what happened to the human empire and the tantalising truth behind the unevolving culture of Diaspar all sucked me along through the narrative, and while it has a 1950s SF feel this book was pure pleasure to read.It isn't perfect however.
Widely regarded as one of his best works.
It's mostly straight adventure with travel and discovery and a few interesting locations, notably two last cities of mankind after a LONG retreat from the galactic scene.
With memories, reincarnation, the works.
So Alvin, the "unique" boy that was created without any kind of reusable information, gets a hankering for adventure and finds the other city full of mentally superior types and the real situation gets explored.
As in the galactic situation.
:) It's like a more traditional take on an Olaf Stapleton extravaganza adding some real plot and story to an idea fest.
And I'll be real here.
This was the first Science Fiction book I can remember reading as a young girl.
(view spoiler)[A brief synopsis: Diaspar is a domed city on earth billions of years in the future.
The people of Lys do not think the races should unite so they seek to stop Alvin from telling Diaspar about them.
Alvin finds a spaceship (coincidental) and flies it back to Lys then takes it out of the galaxy to where he thinks is the invaders origins.
Some of those fears had been based on reality, but others, it now seemed, lay only in the imagination."I'm still trying to recapture what my 12 or 13 year old mind must have gleaned.
But Alvin is contrasted so strongly with the other citizens that the hidden agenda becomes blatant, and the story less interesting: it seems unlikely that he would ever have been able to live in the city for as long as he does.When Clarke died recently, one of the pieces I read about him was by Michael Moorcock, not really an author with whom he might be expected to have had much in common, even if they were both writers in the same genre.
As one of his earlier classic tales, this one features many familiar genre tropes: A far-future city called Diaspar, where technology is so sophisticated it seems like magic, a young (well not exactly, but close enough) protagonist who curiosity is so strong it overcomes the fear of the outside that all the other inhabitants share, and a gradually expanding series of discoveries by our hero Alvin (actually, would anyone really have a name that is shared by an animated chipmunk, one BILLION years in the future???) as he strives to discover the reality of his world, and the larger universe around him.Arthur C.
Zbog ovakvih sam knjiga nekada davno zavolio sf...nekada sam ju citao u nekoj kracoj formi i bila mi je isto dobra ali sad me bas pravo obgrlila. Citajuci knjigu, prolazilo mi je kroz glavu u kako sjebanom vremenu sad zivimo i kako se nekada vjerovalo u Covjeka, i onako pravo te deprimira, al eto mozda je zato sf ovdje, da i dalje vjerujemo u Covjeka...
Kada bi Zil Vern, Asimov i Tolkin seli da zajedno napisu knjigu, zamisljam da bi ovako izgledala. Najbolja sf knjiga koju sam procitao
Robertson is another shining example.So good that I'll let him off with telling me his protagonist's feelings like EVERY TIME or ending chapters with stuff like "She just made a promise she couldn't keep", like, okay- are you telling me the twist in the coming chapters is that she doesn't keep the promise?
Do you think that, like Looper, it was partially funded by the Chinese and that's why the end of humanity was, um "crop blight" (what the fuck) and not global warming?
Don't you think the latest sci-fi films have been fucking lazy?
It's just like all these comic book films too: their success is testament to just how many idiots don't fucking read.
خیلی داستان جالب و درگیرکنندهای داشت، نویسنده چنان فضای پیچیدهای رو خلق کرده که مدتی طول میکشه تا فضاسازی کامل بشه اما همین که میایید به محیط عادت کنید با تجربهی دنیایی متفاوت رو به رو میشید و فرایند تطبیق از سر گرفته میشهبه نظرم زیبایی این کار در به تصویر کشیدن حالات انسانی و ویژگیهای بدیهیاش است که در محیطی متفاوت دگرگون شده ومخاطب با خوندنشون به فکر فرو میره. دوست داشتم به این اثر پنج ستاره بدم اما پیچیدگی بیش از حد بعضی قسمتهای داستان کمی از جذابیتش کاست؛ شاید دفعهی بعدی که خوندمش نظرم عوض ش
دوست داشتم به این اثر پنج ستاره بدم اما پیچیدگی بیش از حد بعضی قسمت‌های داستان کمی از جذابیتش کاست؛ شاید دفعه‌ی بعدی که خوندمش نظرم عوض شد فقط کاش ناشر یه کم زحمت میکشید و اشتباهات تایپی کمتری در این اثر به چشم می‌خورد و مسئله‌ی دیگه‌ اینکه احساس کردم بیش از حد لزوم سعی شده از کلمات ثقیل استفاده بشه، مثلا متنفذ به جای بانفوذ!
In "The City & The Stars", he paints a vivid picture of humanity in the far future that has reached for the heavens before inevitably falling back to Earth and stagnating.Enter our hero, who feels that there must be more to existence than the city he lives in and sets out to discover what else there is.Much like "Rendezvous With Rama" there is no villain other than Man's ignorance and prejudice, and in truth this is a very gentle, if intriguing story.So why do I think it is so amazing?
It was just a book which for me didn’t bring anything new.-----Later edit about the lack of ideas: one of my GR friends pointed out to me that “it has, among many others, the first ever depiction of a virtual reality and this in 1948” and he is right.
Only on GR it was written that it was first published in 1987 and I thought that for those years didn’t seem to bring anything new.So, taken into consideration when it was written, yes, it does have a lot of innovative ideas.
This is actually a tale of two cities, but I guess that title might not have been available, for some reason. (No French Revolution, though.) They are the last human cities in existence, founded in the wake of a withdrawal from the stars caused by the Invaders, a now almost-legendary alien force that took the stars away from humanity.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
One of Arthur C. Clarke's earliest works, this is based on Against the Fall of Night. Oddly enough, he thought that it would be eclipsed by this book in the reading public's mind. They're both still in print. The events in the second half of this book unfolded too quickly to be really savored. All in all, it's still a very good read. Clarke's imagination never fails to delight.
A little clunky in places, fifties-style (I suspect it may have gotten five stars back then), but amazing vision and imagination, so worthwhile even sixty years later... a really striking meditation on possible futures for humanity and cosmic scales of time and distance and development.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
But hey, it was cheap and the stories weren't that long, so...Anyway, The City and the Stars (but the green-yellow cover of the reissue) was bought at the same time, though the reading was postponed, because of my bad experience with the other book.
As I mentioned, the people of Lys have strong mental powers, can read one's mind easily (when permitted), communicate in a mental way (over small and large distances).Alvin also tricks Diaspar upon one of his few returns.
Tādēļ katru reizi, kad vēlos palasīt kaut ko fundamentālu un no zinātniskās fantastikas zelta fonda, es pirmkārt metu acis uz Klarku.
Diaspar ir pilsēta, kura tiek apdzīvota jau miljards gadu.
Ja dzīve apnīk un pēc tūkstoš gadiem tā apnīk viņi iet atpūsties.
Lai vēlāk pēc tūkstoš vai miljons gadiem atkal atdzimtu ar visām iepriekšējo dzīvju atmiņām.
Idejas noveco un pēc pieciem gadiem mūsu pasaules izpratne ir padziļinājusies un izskaidrojumi šķit bērnišķīgi.
Var jau runāt arī par pāris ideju naivumu un atbilstību realitātei, bet kas gan tos superinteliģentus var saprast.
Atrisinājums šķiet sasteigts un apgāž visas stabilās sabiedrības ideju, kas tiek propogandēta visu grāmatas laiku.
Alvin does not fit in, and although he was 'born and raised' in Diaspar, he doesn't know how he came to be amongst these strange people and has no place in Diapers current way of life, He finds it wrong and questions everything.
Alvin believes that there is more out there and questions the history and beliefs of Diaspar's people and the higher powers that keep the order in the city.
Will Alvin find a way out of the dome to answer that burning Questions we all seem to have "how did we get here?" "What is the meaning of life?" "What else is there beyond earth" Another clever work by Arthur C.
Clarke was the creator of Big Ideas, and his readers came to expect that.As with most Science Fiction of that time, characterization is on the shallow side, and you never feel as if you are a part of the scene instead of just watching it.
Some readers will see this as a fault of the writer, but Clarke knew his audience of mostly young men, and knew how to write for them.
I confess that at the time, I never noticed the shallowness of his characters, and would probably have seen detailed characterization as getting in the way of the story.
This had a lot of big ideas, and I started out liking it.....but I found myself avoiding it all the time. Sometimes an annoying lead character really can destroy any liking for an otherwise good novel
Τα βιβλία του Κλαρκ βέβαια είναι για τους φανατικούς του είδους. Κατά τα άλλα δεν έχει να προσφέρει τίποτα πλην άλλους κόσμους, άλλους ανθρώπους....Καλύτεροι; Πιθανόν. Πλην όμως φανταστικοί!
