https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66534.The_Mummy_Case
So glad I decided to read this series as it just keeps getting better and better.In The Mummy Case we get more of the wonderful Amelia rampaging her way across Egypt with her equally wonderful husband, Emerson.
Both characters are larger than life and always entertaining, especially in their dealings with each other.
In this episode in the series their son, Ramses, joins them for the first time on an archaeological dig.
I love the way he interacts with his mother!Of course there are a few murders along the way and Amelia does her usual sleuthing which causes the usual amount of chaos.
**edited 01/27/14WARNING: do not read this novel if you plan to maintain any awe of Victorian archaeologists such as DeMorgan, Petrie, Wilbour, or Wallis Budge.
And you'll always envision Amelia Peabody Emerson, flanked by her belligerent husband and Machiavellian son, poking her parasol into every political and social bee's hive in the archaeological world.The Mummy Case is one of my absolute favourite stories in the entire series.
Young Ramses is one of my absolute favourite characters in the series.
Although Elizabeth Peters wrote two other series, the Amelia Peabody series has to be the most beloved of her characters.This third book in the long running series has Amelia, Emerson, and their aptly named son, Ramses excavating mounds, not where they had wanted to, but in the middle of nowhere.
While Amelia, her parasol, Ramses, and Emerson are as hilarious as always, the mystery was pretty thin, and very slow moving, and while the usual colorful characters are here, they are not as interesting as in the first two books.Still, the banter between Peabody and Emerson is just hilarious, and for that reason alone, this book is worth a read, it was their son, Ramses who stole the show.
“Catastrophically precocious”—this is how Amelia Peabody Emerson describes her young son, Walter Emerson (better known as Ramses, for his demanding nature).
Several times during this novel, a chill runs down her spine when she wonders just where her darling son is and what mischief he has found in which to embroil himself!The fact that the author herself is an Egyptologist really makes these books fun.
I still love Amelia, armed with her parasol, seeking out clues.
Ramses is lawyer-like in his reasoning, endeavouring to manoeuvre around her prohibitions.
They plan to return to Egypt and dig at the pyramids of Dahshoor, leaving behind their precocious son Ramses with Emerson’s brother Walter and his wife Evelyn.
Their young child with several annoying speech impediments who speaks like a 35 year old PhD student in Egyptology and Archeology as well as Religious Theory and Just About Everything Else Under The Sun. I’m sorry I don’t care how intelligent some children are, Ramses is just completely unbelievable and so thoroughly annoying that I found myself skipping huge chunks every time he appeared and especially when he opened his mouth – which was far too often.
Each time I read a new book in this series, I fall in love with the characters more and more.
Amelia & Emerson are one of the best couples in fiction and I end up laughing so much, that I usually bookmark half the book.
As usual with the series, this book is set in an archeological dig in Egypt but for the first time, the Emersons have brought their precocious son Ramses.
He's not threatened by his wife and he likes the fact that she's strong and opinionated.And not only is Emerson extremely bright and clever, he's also a hunk of a man!
Amelia Peabody is back!
So a bored Amelia looks for trouble and finds it.
Amelia is a bluestocking.
She loves to be in control of everyone and everything.
Her favorite things to try to control are the men in her life.
They, of course, are hard to control.
Especially their 4 year old son, Ramses.
Like Ramses, my son would work his way around whatever rules I put out.
Who would have thought I would have to tell a 4year old it was against the rules to climb out the window of his second floor bedroom so he could sit on the roof?
But Ramses really reminds me of my 4 year old grandson, Mr. H.
Yet another fun mystery featuring Amelia Peabody.
While I have to admit the mystery didn't interest me much, the repartee between the indomitable Amelia and Emerson, and Ms. Peabody's (or Mrs. Emerson's) narration, more than made up for it.
Ramses can be amusing also, but he can be a bit too much sometimes, probably because he is too precocious and smart to be believed.
Also, the book was a bit too long and would have been a better book had thirty or so pages been taken out.
Her heroines were pure liberation for a young woman born in the 1950s, swashbuckling and self-confident, cutting themselves a swath through the world.I found myself a little less amused this time around, though Amelia Peabody is still a delightful character (to read about, at least, not necessarily to know personally).
This story (I believe the third in the series, so don’t read on if you haven’t read any of them and think you want to) finds her married to her Emerson and bringing her precocious son Ramses with her for his first digging season.
Definitely my least favourite of the series so far, primarily because so much of it focuses on Christianity with so little understanding.
Personally as a writer, even though I have definite opinions and beliefs of my own, I would never want to provide such a one-sided and dismissive treatment of someone else's religion.
This book is only meant to be a light comedy, but a better author would have written with more grace and nuance.
This 3rd book in the Amelia Peabody series was a huge disapointment.
It feels like at the end whe we find out what was going on and who the villains are, she is half heartedly trying to fit the persons in as the criminals rather then having built the story from the start with them in mind as the perpetrators.
I had a hard time staying engaged with this book.
It took a long time to get going and nothing really remarkable happaned through out the book.
Amelia was actually a bit annoying in this book, very pompus and repetitive, especially when it came to her husband and their relationship.
Barbara Rosenblat underwhelmed me greatly as the reader, with her horrid rendering of the despicable little dwarf Ramses, and making Amelia sound as arch as the St Louis monument.
Because, the constant Christianity-ridiculing in this book notwithstanding, the unbearable "Ramses" does have Anglican godparents.
A child would humanise his pet and call it by its name...but then nasty little Ramses is anything but a normal human child.
Always, unaccountably, "the cat Bastet." Ugh. I've had pets most of my life.
It's obvious to me that Amelia doesn't even like her son much.
If Ramses gets sent off to school, maybe it will get better.
4 enjoyable starsI like this series - I really do.
I loved the narrator in book 1 - she nailed both Ameilia's and Emerson's voices.
Book 2 - they changed narrators and I was not a fan of the her performance.
In book 3, the narrator from book 2, tries this as if Amelia is reading her memoirs, and while I could accept Amelia's voice (kind of), she made Emerson sound like Nigel Bruce's Watson in the old Sherlock Holmes movies.
Ugh - it is not Emerson - even older.Yes, I will continue to read/listen to the series with Amelia, Emerson, Ramses, and the cat Bastet.
For a couple which is meant to be loving and supporting, they never seem to actually trust each other except when forced to by circumstance.)The biggest character issue I had in this book, though, is Ramses, the "catastrophically precious" 8-year-old who spouts out encyclopedic entries and constantly dictates and lectures to everyone.I can get down with a precocious child - lord knows I've read enough MG books with kids beyond their ken - but this kid was just blooming irritating and completely unrealistic.
It doesn't reach four stars because Ramses, estimated at six years-old, was annoying and this mystery merely happened arbitrarily around us.
This is a nice excursion, well-written in terms of humorous dialogue and narrative but not a tautly-plotted case.
Amelia's intolerance of Ramses' know-it-all ravings bring me laughter and I love that there is no sting in the family's civil address of one other.What was crafted intelligently, with engagingly witty language along with Amelia's observations: was the trio's methodical escape from subterranean entrapment.
I have been a fan from the first novel, with criticisms for long segments without purpose.
Quite a bit less engaging than the first book, The Mummy Case suffered very badly from an overdose of pompousness.
From Ramses stilted sentences, and seriously WHAT 7 or 8 year old child sounds like a 50 year old college professor (and the speech impediment was just freaking annoying) to Amelia and even Emerson, whom we expect to be stuffy.
Amelia's narrative bordered on self righteous and I rapidly tired of her know-it-allness.
And I have to say her treatment of Ramses, even for a time period of greater strictness and more formality, was down right emotionally abusive.The mystery was a bit of a yawn.
It had all the usual funnies I expect from an Amelia Peabody book but the plot was very confusing. I don't think I understood what happened, maybe the characters didn't either!
Gotta love Peters for her romantic heroes and in-depth knowledge of Egyptology. Such book-candy.
Here's the thing with the Amelia Peabody books - I find them quite enjoyable, but I do need to space them out or everything sounds over-the-top silly.
I hadn't read any in a long while so The Mummy Case struck the perfect balance between serious Egyptology, ludicrous infant prodigy (Ramses is grating, but then his parents can barely stand him which makes him, strangely enough, a little less insufferable) and a good helping of marital banter.
It was my least favourite part of the novel, the author doesn't do too well in action-packed scenes and that was a little too long for my taste.
This third book in the series is the best so far, mainly because of the presence of Ramses, Amelia and Emerson's precocious son.
It's not clear how old he is, 4 or 5, and he can't yet pronounce 'th', making his rather long speeches quite amusing.
They have taken him to Egypt for their current dig, which is at a mediocre site.
Not far away at Dashoor another group is excavating some pyramids, which Amelia has been longing for.
Ramses is allowed to do digging of his own as long as he takes along a guardian.
Naturally there is mayhem and suspicious characters galore.
Even though it's pretty much the same formula as the first two books, I still found it an entertaining and delightful read! I adored the continued banter and antics of Peabody and Emerson. Ramses is such a doll, and I find him to be a much beloved addition.I plan to continue listening to the series as a palate cleanser.
Last year I started to read the Amelia Peabody series by the late Elizabeth Peters, and discovered that I liked it.
In the third book in the series, the Emersons are returning to Egypt, but this time they have their young, precocious son Ramses in tow, along with the cat Bastet.
But it is Ramses who is the real star of this novel who keeps finding more trouble and dirt than any young child should.
Great fun, real archaeology, and a painless way to see the birth of modern Egypt.
Four stars overall and recommended.
I gave the first book of this series 5 stars, the second 3, and this only 1 star.
It made me wonder if editors actually edit books once an author has had some success, because I don't see how any editor could have given this book the green light as is if they had actually read it.
I was so excited about this series after book one, I am going to attempt the fourth book to see if the author has redeemed herself.
Dec 2011: Ramses at his childhood best wit' lisp and de cat Bastet and all.
Also - Peabody's berzerker rage and the introduction of the MC.
Oh, I love old friends!
Read on BOT (Rosenblatt again!)Aug 2018: Argh!
These Susan O’Malley recordings are HORRIBLE!
At the very least, common words ought to be pronounced properly.
I’ve given up expecting the Arabic words to be correct.
I can’t listen to any more of O’Malley, she is wrecking my favorite fictional people!
Back to CDs since I can’t get Rosenblat another way through the library.
Peabody and Emerson are hoping for a quiet dig season, but with their son Ramses along for the ride, nothing is going to be quiet.. ever! As soon as they get to Cairo, they are embroiled in a new mystery and Amelia is sure that there is a master criminal afoot. After two murders and some mysterious disappearances of antiquities, even Emerson has to agree that something is going on. I LOVE these books. Embroiled with history and a little mystery, these books will keep you chuckling as you go through the pages.
My experience of this third book in the Amelia Peabody series was a combination of reading it on Kindle and listening to the audio book narrated by the marvelous Barbara Rosenblat.These books are pure fluff and fantasy.
I wasn’t sure if I wanted to continue with the series after reading the second book, particularly because I found Emerson annoying, but my sister suggested trying the audio and I think she was right that this is the better way to consume these books.
Barbara Rosenblat lends the narration just the right touch of levity and timing.In their third outing, Peabody and Emerson take their young, precocious son nicknamed Ramses with them to Egypt.
Even though I cannot relate to Amelia's parenting style in the least - these are still highly, highly entertaining books!!! Love them!!
Amelia and Emerson are back in Egypt, along with their overly precocious son Ramses and the cat Bastet.
I never guessed who the Master Criminal was and neither did Amelia.
I love her with Emerson but this book lacked a lot of the witty banter from the previous books.
Emerson's hot temper annoyed me and like Amelia, I think he should have let her handle things.
Brother Ezekiel was especially annoying and I think if I were Emerson I would not have been so polite and if I were Amelia, I would have rescued Charity.
Not quite as charming as the first installment, but still highly enjoyable, and as always Amelia and Emerson never fail to entertain.
I particularly like the part where Amelia beats the people threatening Ramses senseless, and is surprised to find that she did.
Amelia likes to talk about not being particularly maternal and often projects that image, but she is quick to defend her child when he's truly threatened with nothing more than her trusty parasol.
Of course.All in all, a fairly enjoyable read and a good addition to the series.
I think the series gets more ridiculous with each installment.
It's like Peters is making fun of "sensationalist" mysteries a la Agatha Christie.
Of course.Most of the comic relief/ridiculous-ness comes from Ramses, Amelia's toddler-aged son.
He spends the book getting into trouble, arguing with his mother about loopholes in her rules and lecturing her about his take on her excavation.
Again, his precociousness crosses the line to irritating sometimes, and I have trouble believing in his character.Of course, the best part of the book is Amelia.
Overall, it's like Christie-lite.
