https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12898.Death_of_a_Salesman

Death of a Salesman, Arthur Miller Death of a Salesman is a 1949 play written by American playwright Arthur Miller. It was the recipient of the 1949 Pulitzer Prize for Drama and Tony Award for Best Play. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه می سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: مرگ فروشنده - نمایشنامه در دو پرده؛ اثر: آرتور میلر؛ برگردان: عطاءالله نوریان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات پویا، 1351، در 213 ص، چاپ دیگر: تهران، رز، چاپ دوم 1355؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر قطره، 1382، در 180 ص؛ چاپ چهارم نشر قطره، 1386؛ شا
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه می سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: مرگ فروشنده - نمایشنامه در دو پرده؛ اثر: آرتور میلر؛ برگردان: عطاء‌الله نوریان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات پویا، 1351، در 213 ص، چاپ دیگر: تهران، رز، چاپ دوم 1355؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر قطره، 1382، در 180 ص؛ چاپ چهارم نشر قطره، 1386؛ شابک: 9789643412471؛ چاپ پنجم 1387؛ ششم 1389؛ هشتم 1391؛ چاپ یازدهم 1392؛ موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مداستان: ویلی شصت و سه ساله، از یک سفر کاری ناموفق، به خانه‌ اش در نیویورک باز گشته و با همسرش لیندا گفتگو میکند، به نظر می‌رسد که حافظه ی ویلی مشکل دارد، گاهی خود را در بگذشته و در خاطراتش خیال می‌کند، و بدتر از همه اینکه با خویش صحبت می‌کند.
ویلی از اینکه پسر بزرگش «بیف» در کارش موفق نیست ناراضی است.
A Classic with a big C.
It's not a happy story.
A story about a troubled family.
About big expectations, never met.
About the estranged relationship between father and son.
A father, what's he doing?
Panicking because he is loosing his job....
loosing his grip on things...
hallucinating even?Present and past events or even imagined flow in and out of the story.
Already I think I need to reread it to really grasp the whole story.
Linda (hearing Willy outside the bedroom, calls with some trepidation): Willy!Willy: It's allright, I came back.Linda: Why?
Willy (with casual irritation): I said nothing happened.
I just couldn't make it, Linda......
The struggles of Willy Loman would have meant little to my younger, more impatient self.
Now, the huge amount of time Loman spends dreaming of his halcyon days strikes a chord with me.
People have a tendency to dwell on the past when the present turns out to be not as they had hoped, and Willy Loman's present is nearly as bleak as it can get.What's left to say when your boss's son dares to call you "kid"?
What are you supposed to do when the children who once idolized you now look at you with a mixture of frustration and pity?A salesman is got to dream, boy.
Hate! Hate! Oh, the hate! Arthur Miller does a beautiful job of conveying the emptiness and meaninglessness of his protagonist's life. It left me wanting to jump off a very tall building if only I could overcome the crushing ennui and the conviction that even ending ones life was too meaningless and futile to contemplate. Maybe that means Miller accomplished what he set out to do, but I don't have to like it.
The play itself, with themes of anxiety and insecurity mainly takes place in the Lomans house and yard, with capitalism and one mans struggle with work dominating the story, it could be viewed as a social criticism, a tragedy, or simply just a psychological study of disintegration, cleverly though, Miller never takes sides with anyone, leaving the viewer to reach their own conclusions regarding the actions that take place.
2.5/5GR: Thank you for your timeSTEVEN: No problemGR: ...Oh!, just one more thingSTEVEN: YesGR: Could you see yourself reading any more plays?STEVEN: Miller, probably not.
Our third episode is devoted to Death of a Salesman, which--LAWYER: Hold it right there.ME: I'm sorry?
We've seen it with Kathy Griffin, we've seen it with that disgusting production of Julius Caesar and now you--ME: But I'm not.LAWYER: You're not advocating violence against Donald Trump?ME: No, not at all.LAWYER: You fail to convince, Dr Rayner.
Much as I dislike Trump, I think he's more valuable to us alive.LAWYER: You'll need to explain that.ME: Well, Trump is such a vile, universally despised excuse for a human being that everything he touches is automatically discredited in the eyes of a good two-thirds of the world's population.
Do you, personally, like Donald Trump?LAWYER: I resent this question.
I think there are two primary reasons.The first is the relationship between Willy and his sons, especially Biff.
And watching Biff's frustration with trying to communicate honestly with his father (the fault belonging to them both) was the reason for my weeping all those years ago.The other reason the play is tragic is because although Willy is a nobody (and I think it is his own doing) he was loved by some people who cared deeply about him.
The tragedy of this piece stems from Willy's ignorance, and also is extended for those who loved him.There is a lot that can be said about this play, and I don't pretend to be the final word.
He is the man who understands that this promise of the land of opportunity is misunderstood.
However, for those who are just trying to get buy, who do not have a fortune to thrive with; these people are the ones who often work the hardest to come to the end of their life to find out that they will never be given the opportunity that they were promised.A classic American tragedy, I think that this is one of the most important commentaries on the economic slump that still exists in our current society.
Dreams have a dark side, and Death of a Salesman makes that painfully obvious.Willy Loman, like all of us, just wants to be successful.
Willy thinks that success is measured in wealth, and the key to that is being well-liked.
He's worthless.As they say, ignorance is bliss, and this play is really Willy attempting everything he can--including driving himself to insanity--to keep from acknowledging that he's just a lying, cheating, good-for-nothing failure.What really makes this play stand out is how all of the characters so perfectly embody different aspects of Willy.
من رو یاد چند تا فیلم و نمایشنامه دیگه انداخت، از گلنگری گلن راس و جک لمونش، تا اتوبوسی به نام هوس و مارلون براندوش - آیا این شیوه در دوره ای مورد علاقه ی روشنفکرهای امریکایی بوده؟ نمی دونم.حقیقتش من گلنگری رو خیلی بیشتر دوست داشتم.
با هر دو فروشنده (ویلی لومان و شلی لوین) احساس همدردی می کردم، و توی هر دو نمایشنامه هم واقعیت با سختی و خشونت تمام آدم رو زیر لگد می گرفت، اما داستان گلنگری به نظرم کمتر احساساتی بود.
توی مرگ فروشنده عشق پدر و پسری یه ذره همچین بگی نگی هالیوودی بود.(توی کامنت اول ترجمه یه مقاله در مقایسه دو اثر رو گذاشتم.)
Book Review  Arthur Miller is a fantastic writer. 4 of 5 stars to one his most known works, Death of a Salesman, written in 1949. Most Americans read this in middle school as a required book for their English courses. I am not positive when I read this, but I re-read it as part of my English degree in college. I enjoyed it more the second-time around, but it is still a very rough book to read. Not in terms of bad writing, but in terms of topics and emotions.It focuses on the Loman family. The
Most Americans read this in middle school as a required book for their English courses.
I enjoyed it more the second-time around, but it is still a very rough book to read.
The play touches on themes of mental illness, depression, parenting, suicide, life's purpose, the role of a father and husband, etc.
The various passages and speeches by each of the characters are quite strong, pushing you as a reader to think about what society has done to us.
The book makes you think...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]
چه نمایشنامه خوب و متفاوتی بود
این روزها انگار که از خوندن نمایشنامه خیلی لذت میبرم...مرگ یک فروشنده هم از اون شاهکارهای فوق العاده
The dream begins with a melody played upon a flute somewhere in South Dakota.
In reality, the trees are gone, the grass won’t grow, and the Loman house is boxed in by apartment buildings on both sides.
By the time the mortgage is paid, there’s no one left to live in the house.
“Only the music of the flute is left on the darkening stage as over the house the hard towers of the apartment buildings rise into sharp focus, and The Curtain Falls” (139)A Diamond, Shining in the DarkIn the end, I ask myself if Biff was right, if Willy “had the wrong dreams” (138).
خیلی دلم میخواهد یک اجرای خوب از این نمایش را ببینم، بیشتر به دلیل ساختار آن. تماشای جابهجایی زمان در صحنه تئاتر باید جالب باشد. همهی جذابیت «مرگ فروشنده» برای من در همین تاریکروشن صحنه است. اینکه کسی از گذشته میآید، نور صحنه او را روشن میکند و باز در تاریکی فرو میرود. داستان، چندان پرکشش نیست. به ویژه اینکه همه میدانیم ویلی بیچاره قرار است بمیرد. استعداد خودکشی هم که دارد پس پایان از همان عنوان هویداست. اما در هم فرو رفتگی زمان است که در کنار گره گشودن از تعدادی ابهام، نمایشنامه را جذاب میکند.
خیلی دلم می‌خواهد یک اجرای خوب از این نمایش را ببینم، بیش‌تر به دلیل ساختار آن. تماشای جابه‌جایی زمان در صحنه تئاتر باید جالب باشد. همه‌ی جذابیت «مرگ فروشنده» برای من در همین تاریک‌روشن صحنه است. این‌که کسی از گذشته می‌آید، نور صحنه او را روشن می‌کند و باز در تاریکی فرو می‌رود. داستان، چندان پرکشش نیست. به ویژه این‌که همه می‌دانیم ویلی بیچاره قرار است بمیرد. استعداد خودکشی هم که دارد پس پایان از همان عنوان هویداست. اما در هم فرو رفتگی زمان است که در کنار گره گشودن از تعدادی ابهام، نمایشنامه را جذاب می‌کند.
ماذا يقلقك يا صديقى ويللى؟ سأقص عليكم ما يقلق ويللى ويقلقكم أيضاً:- من منا لم تحاصره هموم عمله وهموم يومه وهموم رزقه .. من منا لم يظل حبيس التفكير فى الرزق والمستقبل .. مستقبله مستقبل أبناؤه من بعده .. المستقبل القريب والمستقبل البعيد.- من منا لم تراوده خيالات الحلم الأمريكى .. الحلم الأمريكى بالثراء السريع فى سن صغير والتمتع بالمال وإنفاقه.- من منا لم يخاف على طريقة تعليم أولاده على مستوى ما يتلقون من تعليم, على مستويات تحصيلهم مما يتعلمون .. يجتهد وبشدة فى توفير أفضل طريقة تعليم لأبنائه .. هل
ففى الوقت الذى يهتم الكثيرون بأن يُحصل أبناءهم العلم كان تشارلى قد دخل سوق العمل وخرج غنياً فالعبرة من وجهة نظر تشارلى والحلم الأمريكى ليس بالضرورة بقيمة ما تتعلمه لكن بقيمة ما تتحصل عليه من مال وأجر حتى لو لم تبذل الجهد المقابل ..

Arthur Miller, one of the greatest playwrights to date, captures the frailty that is the human condition in his Pulitzer Prize-winning-drama, Death of a Salesman.
Loman now reaching the age of retirement and coming to terms with his physical limitations, Miller’s superior use of dialogue easily conveys Willy's gut-wrenching urgency to pass the baton to his disinterested son, Biff.In the end, convinced his entire life for naught, Willy loses his desire to live in a world where his goals will never reach fruition.
Death of a Salesman, at its essence, symbolizes man’s need to make his mark in the world, and few literary triumphs have moved an audience nearly as much.
I really hate giving this book (well, play) one star.
I hate giving any "classic" one star, for that matter.
In most classics like this, even if I don't like the story, characters, etc., I usually can find that "spark" that has made it so popular for so many years.
And, this is probably my inner feminist talking, but all of the women in this play were useless.
We have five women in this play.
She gives in to whatever Willy says (because she has "infinite patience," apparently) and adds close to nothing to the play.
با یک نگاه به اطراف یا حتی به خودمون "فروشنده هایی"رو میبینیم که هر روز در حال مرگ هستند."فروشنده ها
So sounds out Arthur Miller's cry to observe that every individual, every human being must have attention paid to them.
I doubt that any author can, for in writing a play about multiple failures - the failures of family, success, love and ultimately the many failures of relationships - Miller wrote a play that has come to be known as a play about the failure of the American Dream in its many formats.
As Biff says at the end of Willy Loman, "He never knew who he was." Miller seems to have created a work which analyses and observes that chasing after false dreams never brings satisfaction.
نمایشنامه ای جذاب و خواندنی. امیدوارم به زودی روی صحنه هم ببینمش:-)
A book many apparently studied and hated in High-school, and no doubt I would have as well.
I have no idea why that age group would be interested in the Story of Willie Loman our 60 year old "salesman" here, as he's looking back over his life.
Has he been successful, or has he not, is he a tragic dreamer, a hero, or like most of us somewhere in between ?
If you're not old enough to have asked these questions of yourself, this book most likely is not for you, that said it's been around since 1949 and folks are still reading it.
نهایت درماندگی. نهایت دلمردگی... وقتی گذشته و خاطرات، ناكامی ها و آرزوها حالت را می بلعد و تو نا توانی
وتري الحد الفاصل بين الثقة والغرور قد ذاب في العبارات المعسولة والأمل الكاذبفأنت لا تتوقع أبداً أن يعاملك العالم يوما ما كالفاكهة !
هل الحب وحده يكفي ؟ هل الثقة وحدها سبيل للنجاح ؟لماذا ينجح البعض ممن لا يملكون أي قدرات مهمة في نظرك ..
ما أكثر ما فقدته بكثرة المجهود ووفرة الأمل!يا من توقعت أن يتحملك العالم وقت تعبك ومرضك ، فوجدت أن أول من سأم منك هم من تعبت طوال حياتك من أجلهم كبار السن ..
لا تتوقع أبداً أن يعاملك العالم كوالدتك، تؤنبك في الصباح، ثم تدعوك للعشاء في المساء !
His emotional crisis begins when he realizes that he’s unable to accommodate his dreams to the real world.
“He cannot grasp the true personal, emotional, spiritual understanding of himself as a literal “loman” or “low man.” Willy is too driven by his own “willy”-ness or perverse “willfulness” to recognize the slanted reality that his desperate mind has forged.” (Note the choice of name for the main character: “Willy” and the family name: “Loman”.
You don’t understand: Willy was a salesman.
He’s man way out there in the blue, riding on a smile and a Shoeshine.
never again!
على الرغم من إني دايمًا بحاول الادعاء عدم تفضيلي للأدب العدمي والسرديات الكئيبة للوجود، لكن من ذا الذي يستطيع أن يدعي لا واقعية هذا العمل؟ هذا العمل - والله - بمثابة صفعة على وجه الواحد كده، كي يعود إلى عالم الواقع، ويدرك كوس خالص، أن الحياة ليست بهذه البساطة.عمل كئيب جميل يليق بيوم حار مثل هذا اليوم
Oh the tragedy! This is so good to read though, I feel as though this book has to be read with someone because you must have someone to debrief with about the happenings throughout the plot. Good 'ol Willy.
