https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120419.I_Had_Trouble_In_Getting_To_Solla_Sollew
I see on Facebook that my brother chose it as one of his favorite books which isn't surprising; it's that kind of book.
The moral is the one thing in this world my mom, my dad, my brother and I agree on: If people mess with you, smash their faces in.
It may not be the best way to solve problems, but it sure beats running away, or turning the other cheek and waiting for some savior to come and carry you off to heaven for it.
There's no heaven.
There's no savior.
And there's nowhere to run to.
Oh.. Only if Goodreads would allow more than 5 stars... It was somehow different from other Dr. Seuss.. But it was amazing... Thanks once again to dear Hoda for everything.. :)
What the kid learns, on a subtle level, is that in this world you shall have tribulation, but, be of good cheer, because you can always take a baseball bat to your troubles.
It's anti-authoritarian in its tone, but not, I do not think, in an unreasonable way.
I suppose there are all sorts of ways you can read this, depending on your political and religious bent.
It is, to me, however, ultimately pro-personal responsibility: stop chasing the fables of your leaders and start making your own life better, right here, right now.
This book is very much a Dr. Seuss moral fable. The gist of the story is one of utopian yearnings, as the main character bird attempts to get to the city of Solla Sollew, in which the residents don't have any troubles, "or at least very few." Dr. Seuss does a nice job of showing that no matter what a person does to try avoiding troubles, troubles will still end up somehow finding their way to every person. This lesson is shown in a light-hearted way that makes for some funny rhymes that I enjoyed reading.
WTF was this book about?
I read this charmer for the very first time last night when putting my little guy to bed.
Last spring my 12-year-old did a school report on him, from which I learned such interesting trivia as the origin of his first title, And to Think That I Saw it on Mulberry Street: It was suggested by the rhythmic sound of the engine on a ship he was riding home from Europe.Anyway, with the continuing presence of so many examples in our house, I’d thought I was reasonably up to speed on the Seuss oeuvre.
This is my favorite Dr. Suess book.I love the lengthy and clever lesson that this book teaches.A chap is having trouble one day and he decides, on advice from the Wubble chap, to run away from it and go to Solla Sollew, where he has been promised "there aren't any troubles, at least, very few."He learns, very importantly, that you really don't want to trade your current troubles for what may lie ahead, that the best thing to do is face what is before you and give your troubles some trouble with you.
My daughter managed to find a copy of this in her school library so we get to read another Dr Seuss book.I'm amazed that Dr Seuss managed to predict the rise of Victor Meldrew, because that is what this story is about.
Our furry friend is out walking one day when he stubs his toe and from this one small event things escalate out of control until one day he finds himself going to war with a pea-shooter.
We enjoyed the story, wonderful rhyming and some fantastic made up places and creatures.
As for the ending, probably the best ending to any Dr Seuss book.
Much less known than many of his other books, this is one of my favorites.I discovered it in high school when our drama teacher adapted it into a reader's theatre performance.
Practicing it for hours and performing it over and over (including at the state drama competition where it won first place) I used to have the whole thing solidly memorized.This week I pulled it out again to share with the students at my school.
Reading this book to all of my classes (K-6) is going to be an annual tradition the first week in March in celebration of Dr. Seuss' birthday.
But also the journey to 'elsewhere' was prompted by thinking escaping from troubles provides a better solution than staying to face them.
As the traveler soon learns, however, he leaves behind one set of problems only to find a whole new set facing him along the journey.
Stay in the almost perfect place or try to find the new perfect place he now hears about?I believe that Seuss is telling us something along the lines of, 'wherever you go, there you are.' Deal with who you are, where you are and with what you have been given.
and every time he looks around to prevent it from happening again, something new shows up on his unwatched side!Finally he bumps into a man going to Solla Sollew, where they don't have troubles - or at least, very few.And this starts his whole troublesome trip.
He finally arrives, exhausted, only to find out that they've misplaced the key and he can't get in, and anyway their troubles in Solla Sollew are just starting thanks to the misplaced key, but there's an even more PERFECT place down the ways a bit...Not for our intrepid hero, though.
He gets a big stick and goes home, deciding any troubles will have trouble with him first.
Yes! This was my favorite Dr. Seuss book as a child, but for years I couldn't remember the name cause I was too young when it was read to me. There's such an under lying darkness to many of his books, and this one's no exception. I love the ending too, cause it really sends a strange, mixed message about dealing with one's troubles. Highly recommended for adults and children.
Really funny!
Probably one of my most favorite Dr. Seuss books!
I read this mainly because of one of my favourite Dr. Seuss quotes: "I have heard there are troubles of more than one kind.
He comes to a rather unsavoury conclusion about life (as we all do) by the end of the book, but that's part of the beauty of it too, and also why he now has a bat, lol.
An enjoyable read, if a bit of a departure from his more light-hearted fare.
However, if you are a fan of Seuss or of a good reminder of life and how you can face it with humour, than this book is for you.
Dr. Seuss just makes it fun for reading. brilliant illustration n narration.
And, poor Cat. His journey is so much longer than he expected…and isn't that the way for all of us.It's a series of troubles that gets deeper and deeper, from a camel needing a ride, to the nastier part of that particular lesson and right down deeper into the tunnel under Pamplemoose.I do enjoy the colors Seuss uses in his books.
Calmly stepping from hillock to hillock is a bright yellow camel hitched to a blue One-Wheeler Wubble to which a rusty looking Cat is clinging.The title sums up that I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew.
While taking a stroll through the valley vung, the young protagonist seeks to escape his perceived troubles and decides to leave his valley for the peaceful village of Solla Sollew, but his journey is more trouble than it's worth, and once he arrives he finds that life, although not without its quirks, was much more peaceful in his valley vung.
This delightful children's book is deceiving in its many layers of meaning and criticism of modern culture, religion, and the spirit of rebellion."Seuss suggests that neither utopian self-delusion nor foolish escapism can neutralize the need for day-to-day existential struggle.
http://www.tikkun.org/nextgen/wp-cont...) Our gullible protagonist falls victim to the idea of Marxism-style division of labor, the fallacy of technological dependability as an absolute, he is cast adrift by the army he was summarily conscripted into, and oddly enough escapes into an underground tunnel filled with birds.
Met andere woorden ook al lijkt het ergens anders beter en mooier, ook daar zijn zorgen en problemen dus je kunt ze beter onder ogen zien en aangaan.
Ook het langlanslegioen is grappig, ze zien er allemaal hetzelfde uit, zelfs hun gezichten, maar als het erop aankomt rennen ze allemaal weg met hun grote lansen en laten ze onze hoofdpersoon aan zijn lot over.
We zien de meest vreemde wezens voorbij komen en die ongekende fantasie maken de boeken van Dr. Seuss ook zo leuk.Opnieuw een erg leuk boek van deze teken- en woordkunstenaar.
I had trouble in getting to Solla Sallew was a cute children’s picture book by Dr. Seuss.
The story started with a cute little creature of Dr. Seuss’s creation, which had a similar appearance to a cat or a dog.
However, at the beginning of the book, he started to experience his first signs of trouble, until he meets someone who knows of a place without any trouble at all.
This excites the little creature, and he ventures out to find this fable place called Solla Sallew.
Or was it another trouble to add?The book itself was very colorful and expressive.
It's hard to pick a favorite Seuss book, but if I had to, I think this would probably be it.
person?) Seuss-esque character, who is faced with all kinds of creatures constantly trying to attack him.
On the surface, it's a crazy adventure in which this character faces all kinds of over-the-top obstacles as only Seuss could portray them, in an effort to find this wonderful city.
I would picture this character's dream where he's sleeping on a pile of marshmallow-stuffed pillows, and long for the same thing.
The last two lines are some of my most favorite Seuss lines ever.
One of most favorites books as a child.
This book went everywhere with me.
The book was accidently left behind by mom in a move to a different state.
Runs through more problems that ever by the time he there, Solla Sallew.
In the process of his thinking it clicks that no matter where he goes or what he does, he will have troubles.
So instead of running even farther away, he heads back to home and decides he will just learn how to handle problems and be happy with life as it is.
It is about a character who is travelling to Solla Sollew but bumps into a lot of trouble and obstacles along his journey.
He tries to combat his troubles by thinking about getting to Solla Sollew where they don't have troubles, hardly any at all.
Except, when he arrives at the gate of Solla Sollew the guard tells him about the trouble with the lock and that no one can come or go.
Appropriate for ages 4 to 9 Dr. Seuss has always been good at rhyming and rhythm.
These are great books to use as examples of rhyming in poetry and a good introduction to the rhythm as well.
The main character is promised that in fact it does and being that he's had more than his fair share of troubles such a place is rather appealing.
Along his journey to Solla Sollew aka Land of Little Troubles the poor main character is lead astray by all kinds of strangers.
His troubles double until at last he makes it to the gateway to Solla Sollew where he finds that the one problem it has is too big to surmount so he returns home with a fearless spirit and makes his mind up to give his troubles a little taste of their own medicine.This is another Seuss story that I think holds a deeper message for adults.
My English teacher from my senior year of high school read this book to the whole class.
It was the first time I had even heard of this Dr. Seuss book, but I loved it so much.
It's easy to see why she was my favorite teacher of all time.
Sometimes we look for ways to escape our problems, but pesky problems seem to find us anyway.
So, the only solution we have is own up and look those problems in the eye with a brave face on.
Happy Birthday, Dr. Seuss!
Since our girls' school celebrated Dr. Seuss's birthday in a big way this year, I endeavored to find a book of his that we had not yet read.
But, in this case, success!
This is a story of an arduous journey to find a place where there are no troubles.
But is there ever truly such a place?
The rhyming and rhythmic narrative and the classic Dr. Seuss illustrations make this book a joy to read aloud.
In any case, we really enjoyed reading this book together and I was thrilled that we found something new!
In this book by Dr. Seuss, the character is having a rough time in his town so when he is enticed by another to find a better land where nothing bad ever happens, he goes on a journey to find the place.
The problem is, everything bad that could happen along the way does.
He returns, but arms himself against the bad things that may come his way.This book is one of the longer Dr. Seuss books so it may need more than one sitting to finish it.
Bad things can and will happen wherever you are.
The narrator, who has too many troubles in his home (the Valley of Vung), has a LOT more trouble getting to Solla Sollew (where they never have troubles, at least very few).
He meets the Perilous Poozers of Pompelmoose Pass, and survives the midwinter jicker, and finally makes it to Solla Sollew only to find he cannot get in (key slapping slippard).
He is invited to got to Boola Boo Ball (where they never have troubles, no troubles at all), but decides against it.
"And I started on back to the Valley of Vung.
Now my troubles are going to have trouble with me." Words to live by.
This is my all time favorite Dr Seuss book.
The moral in this book that you have to face down your problems and not run away to some pie in the sky dream has gotten me through many rough times.
I absolutely love the last page of the book when he talks about getting a big bat and now his troubles will have troubles with him.
It's a good lesson and much needed in a culture that seems more and more dedicated too late in life run you over and then just whining about it like there's some kind of virtue and being a victim.
