https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4692.The_Physician
Rob J.
Cole is a man who feels called to be a healer.
He stays true to that calling, even when surrounded by other physicians who are motivated by greed and glory.
Rob returns to London after many years in foreign lands.
I read the final paragraph of the book three times in a row with tears in my eyes.
The extra sense, the healer's sensitivity, never abandoned him.
Whether he was called lonely in the night to a bedside or hurried of a morning into the crowded dispensary, he could always feel their pain.
Approximately half way into the book it came alive and so begins the arduous adventure of the physician barber Rob J.
With a difficult and demanding road to travel once he reaches manhood his one true desire takes hold; to become the best physician he could possibly be.
Travelling far from his homeland Cole meets several individuals who help him as he struggles to achieve his quest.
As the story continues to unfold, his new acquaintances begin to form a strong bond of real and lasting friendship enhancing the storyline significantly.
عنوانها: حکیم - از لندن تا اصفهان در محضر ابن سینا؛ پزشک: روزهای ابن سینا از سرگشتگی تا شکفتگی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سوم ماه اکتبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: حکیم - از لندن تا اصفهان در محضر ابن سینا؛ نویسنده: نوآ (نووا) گوردون؛ مترجم: جواد سیداشرف؛ تهران، زرین، 1375؛ در 687 ص؛مترجم: طاهره صدیقیان؛ تهران، روشنگران، 1388، در 784 ص؛ شابک: 9789641940067؛با عنوان: پزشک : روزهای ابن سینا از سرگشتگی تا شکفتگی؛ مترجم: کیومرث پارسای؛ تهران، قصه پرداز، دبیر، 1379، در 632 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1387؛ شابک: 9789646916487؛ هشدار اگر داستان را نخوانده اید این نوشتار ممکن است داستان را افشا کند؛ داستان حکایت جوانی انگلیسی است، که از شهر لندن به ایران و شهر اصفهان میرود.
TEST 2I thought perhaps the easiest way to synthesize my feelings towards this book was to answer the following 5 questions:  When did the story take place: The first half of the eleventh century.Who were the central characters: Rob J Cole, his friends and employers and later his wife (Mary Cullen).Where did it take place: England, Scotland, a trip across Europe to Isfahan, Perisa and even a short episode in India!What was the point of the book: I believe the book was written to inform readers in an engaging manner about the time period and how it really would have felt to live then and in these specific places.
He struggles in his new role as a Barber surgeon (he has a hard time mastering juggling, which is vital to draw crowds) but eventually he becomes obsessed with the idea of healing people after he meets a Jewish Physician who can perform cataract surgery.
must disguise himself as a Jew. Rob J.
The reader also develops a strong sense of the fragility of life in this time period, of the difficulty of travel, of how much our world has progressed in 1000 years.
Also, unlike most novels of this period, it gives a sense of the role of Jews in the Middle Ages.
ص(504)0إذن أين ذهبت انجازات المسلمين بل حتى ابن سينا الذي قاتل الدنيا ليصل إليه؟كل ذلك لم يبد له أكثر من تكرار لليونانيين...0و في النهاية روب.ج الأوربي يثبت لنا أنه كان الأكثر انفتاحا و تطورا من الجميع...0طبعا من المستحيل أن تخلو رواية تتطرق للشرق أو المسلمين من تلك النظرة الفوقية، لكن ما يجعلها لامنطقية في هذه الرواية أنها أقرب لتكون نظرة شخص في القرن العشرين _الذي هو المؤلف_ و ليس روب.ج الذي أتى من غياهب القرون الوسطى من بيئة جهل و فقر مدقع...0و لذلك حرمتها من نجمتين مع أنها ممتعة فعلا، بسبب تلك النغمة الفوقية الاستشراقية التي أتت في غير محلهاو بغض النظر عن تلك الصورة النمطية المزعجة...
I’m a modern military history buff, and until I read this book I hadn’t had the slightest intrest in medieval social portraits.
Well, Noah Gordon opened my eyes.
I travelled through medieval Europe with Rob J.
Cole (as I would later do with his descendant Shaman in America) all the way to Persia.
The remarkable writing style ensured that the length of the book merely made it more appealing.
The longer I spent reading it, the more I enjoyed it.
So much so that I was saddened when the book was drew to its end.
It definitely ranks among my favorite books of all time
Mi querido padre, que es muy amante de la novela histórica, me recomendó hace muchísimo tiempo que l
I love historical fiction.
I love to learn about religion in historical fiction.
I loved this book!This book takes place during the 11th century in Europe.
It is about a Christian man who disguises himself as a Jew in order to go to a Muslim school of Medicine in the Middle East.
It was so interesting to learn how these three major religions interacted with each other during that time in history.There is one problem with the book though: there is a lot of sexually explicit content.
Since this book talks about most of the details if Robert Cole's life,it throws that in there as well.
Schöner Re-read gewesen.
Si bien lo que acabo de decir puede dejar a El Médico como algo aburrido o poco memorable, no fue mi intención; porque sí que tiene sus partes emocionantes, sus partes intensas (a modo ficción histórica, vamos a situarnos en perspectiva) y, sobre todo, sus partes interesantes.A lo largo de las más de 800 páginas y más de cuatro meses que me llevó leer este libro, he desarrollado un cariño inmenso por los personajes, por la prosa del autor y por la historia.
I found this book when I looked for something similar to Follets "Pillars of the Earth" and I'm really glad I read it. Both the medieval setting in Britain and the fact that you accompany the protagonist for a long period of his life are aspects this book has in common with "Pillars of the Erath". But as the story goes on it also teaches the reader a lot about the islamic and jewish religion at that time, as well as about the medical practices in the medieval era, which is really interresting. A very good read!
However Barber carried out the job more like a travelling quack in the US in a much later era.The basic premise of the story was impossible - there is no way Rob J could have impersonated a Jew at that time and for that long and without really knowing how to be a Jew!
NG also imputed an impossible freedom to women and Mary's father would never have considered a marriage between them as she was socially above Rob J.Finally (but far from exhaustively!) he would not have been able to practice back in England/Scotland BECAUSE HE WAS A CHRISTIAN and the reason medicine back then was so basic in Christian countries was that vivisection was considered heresy (which was true for many more centuries).
When I read it, over ten years ago, I was quite taken with it. Though not taken enough to persue the series further. I also remember ranting about the movie which I've seen a shorter while ago for being lacking in many departments, putting too much emphasis on a love story that didn't exist in the book in that way, and being a lot more "eurocentrist" in who is the hero than the book was.
Noah Gorgon's ability to transport you back into the dark ages is a result of talent and insightful research.This is a story of a young man born in London during the reign of King Knute and his transformation throughout his life to become Hakim, the Persian word for Physician.
For a Christian, to become a physician was deemed sacrilegious by the all powerful church, and the Islamic world would kill infidels on sight.
The protagonist, Rob J Cole, had to become something altogether different than a Christian or a Muslim in order to accomplish the metamorphosis from a dark age European to an enlightened scientist.
The Physician is the first book of the excellent trilogy (Cole Family) of Noah Gordon I read.
A book that I highly recommended if you like such novels "The Pillars of the Earth" in which generations of different eras are mixed, the history of medicine and exciting travel through exotic places.Spanish version: El Médico es el primer libro de la excelente trilogía del escritor Noah Gordon.
Un libro muy recomendable si te gustan las novelas tipo "Los Pilares de la Tierra" en el que se mezclan generaciones de épocas diferentes, la historia de la medicina y viajes apasionantes a través de lugares exóticos.
Historical-fiction adventure travelogue explores 11th century relationship of three major religions. It's a page turner.
I hardly knew anything about the book before reading it and was pleasantly surprised to read all that about the early Persian Empire – my place of birth.
He was an absolute genius, a polymath, the father of early modern medicine, and one of the most significant astronomers, thinkers, and writers of the Islamic Golden Age.This woodcut from an early 15th Century Latin language medical shows the three great ancient teachers of medicine: Galen (Roman), Avicenna (Persian), and Hippocrates (Greek).The book has been made into a movie, which I have yet to see.

The answer seems to be that the author is trying to create another “mysterious” East (the Others).The majority of the jargons, transliterations, simple Persian vocabulary, locations, historical figures, historical events, and Islamic terms are wrong throughout the novel!
The author’s goal has justified “any and every” misinformation and exaggeration.Read the following statements on how Persians and Islam are described throughout the book.
There had been a number of Greek invasion and he knew light-skinned Persian men, and women with snowy breasts” (403).The climax of hatred and animosity toward the Persian land (Persia) is grotesquely depicted when Rob enters Persia and reaches a lake (Urmiya).
DNF page 70 of 618.I was sick of juggling balls. Where are the guts? The blood? The everything?I loved the movie, though.But they have nothing to do with each other.
I've completed the entire trilogy and highly recommend it. The Physician was the lead-in to a multi-generational story that is well researched and beautifully written. I'm ready to read all three again.
4,75 Sterne

Sem família nem nada que o prendesse a uma Inglaterra atrasada e ignorante, nos primórdios do séc XI, lançou-se à aventura e, montado numa carroça durante dois anos, atravessou a Europa rumo à Pérsia, (hoje, Irão) para aprender medicina com o melhor e mais consagrado físico (médico) da época.Pôs-se à prova, por vezes nas mais primitivas condições humanas, e enfrentou sozinho, os desafios de tão grande jornada, sem outra ajuda além das suas mãos e da sua mente.Conheceu pessoas e aprendeu a distingui-las; àqueles tão maltratados pela vida quanto ele, abriu o seu coração e acolheu-os para a vida toda, com outros provou o sabor da traição e do desprezo.
(He will meet up with her later and marry her.) He cannot be admitted to the Persian schools as a Christian so he manages to disguises himself as a Jew. He makes 3 friends, one who is a Muslim, and they have many adventures including going to India for the Shah (who is a "friend" of sorts).
The descriptions of medical knowledge in the Middle East was interesting especially compared to what was known in most of Europe.
2) Has several love making sections that are totally unnecessary in detail.
In Persia in the 11th Century, a surgeon's apprentice disguises himself as a Jew to study at a school that does not admit Christians.
Super unterhaltsame Darstellung des Lebens im Mittelalter. Die Reiseabenteuer sind toll beschrieben und der Umgang zwischen Kulturen und Religionen super interessant. Lässt dann leider zum Ende etwas nach und wird langatmig. Hat mir trotzdem besser gefallen als ich gedacht hätte.
Una obra fantástica, tanto en lo referido a la historia que contiene y su protagonista como a su calidad literaria, pues la tiene, sin abusar de recursos estilísticos pero con un tratamiento del lenguaje placentero y bastante bien estructurado.
Es un libro confeccionado con sucesos más cotidianos y discretos que, sin ser grandes, conforman en su conjunto una gran historia.Un acertado final pese a que quizá podrían existir otras alternativas para engrandecerlo, aunque no hay mucho objetarle tampoco.
Sin embargo, esto es más bien una salvedad.Varios son los párrafos y citas profundos que descansan en esta gran obra literaria, endulzando el paladar y la mente.
if you're still pondering to read this, why not now/soon and watch the movie later this year ;)/ETA When I read this book for the first time years ago, I LOVED it all in caps.
yes, I think I read this for the first time about 20 years ago.
It's full of adventure and rich of story and wow, exotic times and places and all.
Let's just say: I still liked and enjoyed this, but my taste for historical novels has changed to another level within the last 20 years.
