https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402259.The_Politics_of_Experience_The_Bird_of_Paradise
Laing describes schizophrenia as a kind of journey into the inner self, one that is misunderstood by people in the "normal" world and labelled as madness.
I know that Laing's views have not been accepted by mainstream psychiatry, which has, in the 40 years since he wrote this book, simply gone further down the road of clinical diagnosis which Laing criticised so vehemently.Still, I was fascinated by his description of psychotic episodes as a kind of misunderstood spiritual journey back to something we've lost.
It is potentially liberation and renewal as well as enslavement and existential death.”“The family’s function is to repress Eros; to induce a false consciousness of security; to deny death by avoiding life; to cut off transcendence; to believe in God, not to experience the Void; to create, in short, one-dimensional man; to promote respect, conformity, obedience; to con children out of play; to induce a fear of failure; to promote a respect for work; to promote a respect for ‘respectability’.”Stuff with which he indicts the social structure at large, and psychology in particular.His thesis is that we are socialized to function in a mad world.
Yes, some people termed as mad may be having a genuine mystical experience.* But many others may have a physical difference in the way their brains are operating..
And if it IS the fault of our modern society and first world family dynamics, then where does that leave the mad people who existed before our current culture?
Never-the-less, 4 stars for bringing up interesting points about the intersections between mystical experience & mental illness..
For the delivery of said points and the associated personality of the writer, 2 stars only.
I am having a hard time finding words for this book.
It is ostensibly about Psychiatry, and a few sections treat that subject fairly specifically, but the more striking parts of the book seem to have a much more general significance.
In particular, chapters 1, 3, and 4 are .
Particularly, Chapter Four, Us and Them, takes the traditional Anarchist rejection of nations and borders and all that garbage, and applies it in a much wider, more profound sense, bringing it to its logical and very scary conclusion.Definitely read this, put it on the top of a list or something, go get it, and read it now!
Laing thinks it is sometimes necessary to stand back and allow the schizophrenic to go through the process (however he doesn't give any hint of how you differentiate these *some* from the others who would benefit from therapy).
The first chapter will probably boggle the reader, not because it is difficult to grasp the concepts but because Laing uses the word "experience" so many times in such rapid succession that the word itself becomes devoid of meaning.
Just remember the egghead is the patient, and he thinks he is dead but is pronounced alive by the doctors and treated by frying the egg.
on the docket this week, it's "the politician's experience" by r.d.
ok, let's GO!REVIEW:all previous psychiatry is fundamentally flawed.what is considered "mental illness" is rather a healthy reaction to an oppressive society, and insane standards of living.existentialism.psychoses - schizophrenic episodes, in particular - are "growing" experiences, which one must necessarily pass through, and which can have extreme benefit.if nobody listened to what you said, because they thought you were crazy, wouldn't you start writing on the walls with your own shit too?VERDICT:make sure you put your kids on ritalin and prozac!
The book starts off very theoretical, but once you get past the beginning it becomes entirely absorbing. It entirely changed my perspective from which to view mental illness, in a good way -- basically, Laing posits that we're all alienated from ourselves in some shape or form; those labelled schizophrenic just express this alienation in forms non-acceptable to mainstream society. His ideas were very liberating for me.
This is a short collection which, as I recall, contains the most substantial piece I've seen by Laing about psychedelic drugs. I read the thing in the midst of studying a lot of other work by him and his colleagues in "the antipsychiatry movement" in the context of doing independent study work in the nebulous field of "humanistic psychology" in college. The essay, "The Bird of Paradise", appears to have been written under the influence.
I love R.D. Laing.
Laing says that psychiatrists have paid very little attention to the experience of the patient and the diagnosis, psychotherapy and treatment of madness (schizophrenia) needs a new approach.
I enjoy the “Ten day Voyage” last chapter to discover that a “psychotic episode” is not really a madness case, but a significant and transcendent experience that confronts us to our alienated view of the world.
We need to reconsider our understanding of our social reality, self-alienation and the relativity of experience and behavior to diagnose who is insane, and who do not.
Offensively bad.He completely denies the practicality of the (admittedly subjective) views society forces upon us regarding 'normality' and mental illness.
Madness is the most profound form of loneliness and it is in their interests to be brought back to 'sanity', no matter how much people like Laing romanticise their illness.All I know is that my girlfriend would seriously harm herself and others if it weren't for her medication.
She passionately espouses the practical necessity of modern psychiatry and medicine and is incredibly thankful that she was not born in an earlier time.I must concede that Laing's description of the construction of group identity in the earlier chapters is very interesting and well-written, however.
Even more mindblowing!!
The Politics of Experience is a book that tries to fundamentally tackle the claim that mental illness (particularly schizophrenia) is a natural reaction to an insane human social world.
While a part of me would like to believe this - as to do so implies that mental illness is curable without medication - there is simply too much evidence favoring the reality that schizophrenia is genetically inherited.
In this, Laing's work, while well intentioned, argues against what I believe is in the best interest of those suffering from schizophrenia.
I believe sufferers of schizophrenia need help and social support from trained professionals.
Still a lot of unique and valuable and dare-i-say revolutionary ideas for those interested in taking a step closer at looking at mental health as well as the malcontents of civilization.Further thoughts, in hindsight, 3/27/13:While this book has a lot of interesting things to say that don't get said nearly enough, since i originally read this my own view of madness, and more importantly my own madness (diagnosis of schizophrenia) has matured a bit since reading this, and i must say that the viewpoint that schizophrenia is a moral or existential issue is not just a little bit twisted and backwards, no matter how sick this fucked up greater society tends to be.
Nonsensical in parts - a lot of words to communicate ideas that are neither complex nor thoroughly thought.‘The sky is blue’ suggests that there is a substantive ‘sky’ that is ‘blue’.
This sequence of subject verb object, in which ‘is’ acts as the copula uniting sky and blue, is a nexus of sounds, and syntax, signs and symbols, in which we are fairly completely entangled and which separates us from at the same time as it refers us to that ineffable sky-blue-sky.
But in saying ‘the sky is blue’ we say ‘the sky’ ‘is’.
I admit I haven't read this in years, not since my youth.
And now that I've been out of therapy for a number of years I can say that remnants of that shattering are still there, and really more important now.
Now that the "madness of morality" is a lot more evident in this world.
Even looking on later psychological events, like say the infamous Stanford Prison Experiment, becomes looking at madness as not something exclusive to "insane people" but to everyone at some point.
Also, I seem to remember that Laing is a wonderfully compact writer, those hardest of writers to find that can do that well.
this was a mind-blowing book to read as a young man coming of age in the sixties and seventies...in a few words, it's lasting premise is that 'everything is political' in the broadest sense of the word...and the subtle truth that the decision to view the world 'objectively' is itself a 'subjective' choice
A disturbing, compelling book about Schizophrenia, a disease that is hard to treat. Because mental health professionals know so little about the brain, helping Schizophrenics is difficult. This book raises interesting questions. Are Schizophrenics crazy or are they enlightened individuals who don't fit in?
Interesting read on perception, consciousness, id/ego etc. Quite Jungian in my mind...a fun juant.
Laing's ideas easily dovetail with the early prophets of the drug culture such as Leary and Castaneda.The Schizophrenic Experience in Chapter 5 is presented from a clinical perspective rather than in New Left/New Age rhetoric of earlier chapters; hence more credible.
The final chapter, The Bird of Paradise, is apparently Laing’s articulation of his own drug induced exploration of the schizophrenic state but it seems more like his foray into a new literary form than it being meant to support his thesis.
Laing, a doctor in the practice of psychiatry, is a poet of a logician who detail out a great analysis of human society. He adventures into the deep minds of men especially those disturbed and shows that in our great "Age of Darkness", conditions like the "broken soul" are unavoidable. Laing's treatise is a good enlightening read filled with wit and good humor, best read with a cup of tea.
Highly pretentious and self-important, The Politics of Experience is worth reading if only for its comparatively lucid and deeply insightful meditations on schizophrenia and the psychotic experience, in chapters 5 and 7 respectively. The Bird of Paradise is like some kind of Dadaist spiel which is still somehow funny, depressing and baffling in equal measure.
Gee whiz. Took me about 9 years to get through this schizophrenic book. Lots of ideas that, when read, related to that moment in time when I picked up the book at the dog-eared page. Style is stop-start, self-indulgent.
This book is extremely plod driven, character driven and engaging. I loveit, couldnt put it down and need more of this.
This book is extremely plod driven, character driven and engaging. I loveit, couldn´t put it down and need more of this.
Found it to be a very rich, moving and transformative book.
super duper gary cooper
Reflection on transcendence vs therapy
excellent book as a primer to decolonizing the minds of indigenous peoples
Chapters discussing family, experience, groups (we vs them) and schizophrenia are interesting and give some good insights. Last chapter (Bird in Paradise) belongs in a different book.
tips for a good book: don't suck freud's dick while writing, because then you just make no sense at all.
