https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33555224-thunderhead
Despite that I didn't enjoy Thunderhead EXACTLY as much as Scythe, I feel the book itself is nearly flawless and one of the greatest YA books on the market.
As my favorite part of book one was the world, I’m very pleased with how it has continued to develop through the sequel.Thunderhead introduces a new main character named Grayson into the story who we follow through some previously uncharted territory.
The ending absolutely made up for some of my lesser-favorite parts of the book.Overall, I enjoyed Thunderhead.
"Scythe Johannes Brahms, you are accused of abusing your position and multiple crimes against humanity." "How dare you!" Brahms gasped. "Who are you to accuse me?" He struggled, trying to rally strength, but it was no use. The painkillers that were in his system were filling his responses. His muscles were weak and useless to him now.  "I think you know who I am," the young man said. "Let me hear you say it." "I will not!" Brahms said, determined not to give him the satisfaction. But the boy in
"Scythe Johannes Brahms, you are accused of abusing your position and multiple crimes against humanity." "How dare you!" Brahms gasped.
"Let me hear you say it." "I will not!" Brahms said, determined not to give him the satisfaction.
Well, this one didn't make my 5 star but I will re-read it on audio later and see if it was just my mood because the first book was totally awesome!
Actually, Rowan and Citra have them in an uproar.
And I do hope it moves back up to my 5 star review position in the next book!
That cliffhanger though...Solid read! I liked it more than the first book. If you like political intrigues, you will love this!
This cover makes you want to read this book even if you have no idea what the book is about.
In this case you can judge a book by its cover!A fantastic continuation of the story from book one; I would have to say it is even better than the first.
The author has done a great job of carrying the story over, keeping it fresh, keeping it creative, and not losing any momentum.
(i.e. Empire Strikes Back is to Star Wars: A New Hope as Thunderhead is to Scythe).
Outstanding stuff all around.If you read the first book, definitely read this one.
Second time reading and that ending!!!Still worth every stars.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~First read: 26/4/18Hot damn.
That ending.
Shit absolutely and unequivocally just hit the fan but...
no worries.
It’s only a year right?The cruelty...I pondered for days over how to rate this (needlessly it seems) because I finally came to my senses.
There’s nothing to overthink here because I am so fucking speechless that I don’t know how I could give this anything less than what it deserves.
All I can say is: read between the lines.
I am dead! This book killed me!! That ending!! Dead. All I will say is that this is becoming one of my absolute favourite series ever. The wait for the next book is going to be brutal.
Holy freaking crap this was amazing. So many twists and turns and so thought provoking! So amazingly good!
im pretty sure i am in the minority when i say that i didnt think this was better than scythe, but i didnt think it was worse either.
im so very excited to see how the series will continue.
i was pleading with everyone to see that the reason he is the way he is was because he was forcibly placed in a horrible environment and his behaviour is a product of needing to survive.
i swear, the next book better have rowan healthy and happy, or else i will start another petition.
Without context, the word Thunderhead could mean a variety of things; for instance, it sounds like it it might be:-the newest Scandinavian metal band-a kind of migraine-something you may overhear a group of college boys bragging about on the subway-a pagan shrine to Thor But stupid jokes aside, in Neal Shusterman's world Thunderhead is the ultimate cloud collection of human knowledge, given consciousness and the task of governing Earth.
Thunderhead is a lot like Scythe, with a little more variety thrown in.
SCHUSTERMAN, I NEED ANSWERS! HOW DARE YOU LEAVE US IN A STATE OF ABSOLUTE DISARRAY?! My mind! What does this all mean? How will everything be resolved in the third book?!I thought I could review this, but I can't really. So just pick up this series, I implore you.—————————Book one obliterated me.This book will probably finish me. —————————Edit: 30 minutes later and now I have the book in my hands. 🤩—————————I’m not even halfway through Scythe and I just ordered the sequel because the book is that stupidly good!
IM GOING TO BE SCREAMING FOR THE NEXT 19 HOURS WHATJUSTHAPPENEDwowowowoowow, okay my dudes, lets get this straight, if you loved book 1, READ THIS RIGHT NOW. if you hated book 1, READ THIS RIGHT NOW.This. Was. Everything. That. Book. 1. Wasn't. im actually so amazed, like the characters, the development, THE PLOT TWISTS. THE REALIZATIONS, it was ALL SO. GOOD.i don't even have words beyond WHERE IS BOOK 3this is going to be me @ anything related to this book for the rest of the decade
By doing this Shusterman breathed new life into this story and added a fresh and exciting take and outlook on a world I already found incredibly intriguing.
Things are bubbling over and the political and societal implications of the deepening rift within the Scythedom created even more questions one must ask themselves when reading this book.
The world building that I adored in the first installment carried over and Shusterman added yet another layer with more political intrigue.
It was a perfect ending, to a perfect book and created the perfect need within me to find out how this story will grow and develop in the next installment.
Citra is over here doing the political side of the scythedom and Rowan is over there just murdering bad scythes like a righteous angel of death.
GOTTTA LOVE THEM BOTH.+ Rowan and Citra's storylines are totally separate too!They barely interact and I'd definitely say there's no romance in this book...but they still are just sort of tied to each other, even though neither admit it?!
Exceptional world building, epic writing, and I love the adorable murdery scheming characters of Citra and Rowan so so much.
And always with those jaw dropping cliff hangers🙌
If I use the term  shook  like I usually do to describe what I’m feeling right now, it would seriously be an understatement for this book. I loved every. single. page. and I am so glad that it loved up to my expectations of being just as great as Scythe which was one of my favourite reads of 2017 ❤I used to think that I wasn't really into dystopia anymore but I reckon it's Neal Shusterman's mind blowing writing style that has made me fall in love with this world! Also can we please come up with
and I am so glad that it loved up to my expectations of being just as great as Scythe which was one of my favourite reads of 2017 ❤️I used to think that I wasn't really into dystopia anymore but I reckon it's Neal Shusterman's mind blowing writing style that has made me fall in love with this world!
Because rain is the closest thing I have to tears.”  You got me hooked real good.I found that as I was making my way through the chapters, I was so lost in the world that I genuinly didn't want the book to end.
4.5/5 stars (rounded down) - now if only Goodreads would introduce half star ratings, then I wouldn't have to go breaking mathematical rules to round down, when I am clearly supposed to be rounding up!“An arrogant head of state gives permission to all nature of hate as long as it feeds his ambition. And the unfortunate truth is, people devour it. Society gorges itself, and rots. Permission is the bloated corpse of freedom.”I think I've found another favorite author. I had a feeling after I've re
I love Shusterman's writing style, I applaud his ability to twist and turn a story and I admire his ideas and thoughts that he puts out in his books.
I think I liked Scythe just a tiny bit better than I did Thunderhead.
This is what good, no scratch that, great dystopian is.​Thunderhead managed to seamlessly introduce new characters, and while I didn't care much for Munira, although I am sure she will be much more important in the next book, I loved Greyson from the very first pages.
His story arc was the most interesting and the most tragic in the book, I even found myself wanting Greyson to have more page time, because I grew to like him so much.
...throwing morals to the wind and murdering gleaning people however and whenever they please.Rowan has gone rogue and Citra is adjusting to her first year as an official scythe.
A new character named Greyson is introduced and I really liked him.The Thunderhead has become much more of a character.
I mean, pain nanites and having your metabolism sped up to lose weight and being able to come back from the dead over and over sounds kind of cool, but there are also some downfalls.
Like the 10% possibility you could be gleaned by a scythe.
Which means you aren't "deadish," but totally dead.
I need dis.Scythe - FIVE STARS!
My Video Review:https://youtu.be/SBE7W8doqB8
Book Reviewed by Nia on www.whisperingstories.comI’m so glad that I read this book directly after the first in the series, I was still very much in the zone and this book was absolute perfection.I felt that Scythe, the first book, was a little slow in the action and pacing department but it turns out that it was all about setting things up for this book – the politics we were introduced to have now taken a dark turn, we learn more about the Thunderhead and its origins, and Citra and Rowan are now finding their footing in the world of scythes.
JUNE UPDATE ON MY FAVORITE READ OF 2018: Can we all just take a moment to appreciate the fact that this book has over 11,000 ratings, and the average GR rating is freaking 4.55 STARS?!?!
And I honestly feel bad for whatever book I read next, because I think my standards are just too high right now....The 2-month update literally no one asked for: I read this book two months ago, and my heart still hasn’t recovered.
I’m still thinking about the characters, the world, and THAT FREAKING ENDING.
4.5 stars! The ending was much better than the first book and so damn intense! I really liked the characters in this book more than the first as I started becoming more attached to them and also so much more happens in this to them that you just can’t help feeling sorry and really wanting to follow them further with their journey. Especially Greyson’s storyline! Thank you Neal for writing this adventurous book!
I loved Scythe but I love Thunderhead even more.
I gave Scythe 4 Stars last year but I thought it lacked something in the world building column.
I did not have that problem with Thunderhead, not only did I feel completely enmeshed in this world but I felt like the background of this world was fleshed out.
I usually find it annoying when new characters are introduced in sequels but I love Greyson Tolliver and at times enjoyed his chapters more then Rowan and Citra chapters.
Recommended for everyone who loves evenly plotted storylines and great world building.
Or I could be as mean as the end and say this:Reading this, unknowingly a change happened to me!
Usually, I sit around with notepad, different colored pens to scribble my thought-process, and lots of coffee when I read anything.
There were portions (*especially from Thunderhead) when I literally did hold my breath as if I was kind of waiting for an Apocalypse!
Though somehow the ending was bit abstractly drawn most times, it did not waver the whole damn story-line.
Introducing new characters really made it more interesting than confusing!
Thanks to all the BR partners for making it more interesting.
Again I will say it, Neal Shusterman (NS) is the Sci-Fi King of What If….He takes a thought like hey we have a cloud now and we are putting more and more stuff in it what if years and years down the road we have an AI version that is a mash up of The Cloud/Google/Facebook/Amazon and it had a social conscience and was put in charge of EVERYTHING.
How would the world change?
How could I not love the very beings who gave me life?
Even if they don’t all agree that I am, indeed, alive.
I am the sum o
I loved learning more about the Thunderhead and realizing that maybe it is not as ambivalent as once thought since it seems to have some favorite humans out there.Rowan and Citra are both trying to change the Scythedom after the events at the end of Scythe.
Citra is working from inside the system trying to make killing the populace a thought about affair with great respect.
While I was slightly disappointed that this was not the end of the story since I was planning on a dualogy and knowing all of the things after this book I’m also really excited that there will be a final book in this series.
oh. my. god. OH MYGOD. OH. MY. GOD. I CANNOT. FUNCTION. i feel like,,, i can’t explain how i feel because there aren’t words. OH MY GOD. OHHHHH MYYYYY GOOOOODDDDD(i actually give this book 4 stars but that ending is 5 stars so i’ll leave that here for now)rtcOH MY GOD. —buddy read with Tara 💗 (i’ll tag)I’m living for this cover’s colour and just generally Scythe Faraday, please don’t hurt me Shusterman I can’t take it with this exam stress I’m already having
This book totally exceeded my expectations and alongside "The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo" it is now the best book I've read this year so far.
I was basically glued to the pages of this book and there were so many things that happened that I just didn't see coming.
I also very much enjoyed learning more about the Thunderhead in this part of the series.
I really hope it will come out early next year because after the ending of this "Thunderhead", I don't really know what to do with myself until I finally get answers and waiting for "The Toll" is definitely going to be pure torture.
(c) It's this series' pleasure to be my displeasure....A bit more definition added to this world, and still...
I can be eloquent, and charming, funny, and endearing, speaking the words you most need to hear, at the exact moment you need to hear them.Yet even so, there are unthinkable moments where I can find no words, in any language, living or dead.And in those moments, if I had a mouth, I might open it to scream.
(c) Ugh, it seems that people need to learn the definition of life and only then death can be excluded from this equation.
*5 GOBSMACKED STARS* “Death must exist for life to have meaning.” WHAT THE ****... THAT ENDING?! This series will actually be the death of me!I am in shock. How am I supposed to survive until the next installment, so cruel to leave us hanging like this!
I AM NOT OKAY.This story follows Citra & Rowan further into the future world where they still have to play the difficult politics of the Scythedom.
While they've followed different paths, it's still so interesting to see how their stories come together.
One thing I liked about this book that differed from the first book were the sections from the Thunderhead's perspective.
They were so interesting and gave so much insight into what was happening in the book.This book felt a little bit slower than the first book, but the more i think about it, the more I love it, and the ending was so amazing and unexpected.PLEASE READ THIS!
AHHHHH I NEED THE NEXT BOOK AHHHHHHH
