https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50632.The_American_Dream_The_Zoo_Story
Mix Lewis Carroll with Jacques Tati, as one criticsuggested when reviewing "The American Dream," andyou have a lethal, hilarious and very satiric cocktail. This may be his Best Play. The cast includes : Mommy, Daddy and Young Man (who explains his price, for those who can afford it, to the childless duo). Albee's comedy puts you in stitches - then he yanks 'em out.
While The Zoo Story is one of my all time favorite plays, The American Dream is an altogether different artistic endeavor. It explores how fulfilling empty societal roles (such as Mommy and Daddy) can lead to a broken shell of an American Dream, bereft of emotion and focused only on making money.
Albee never provided that.The Zoo Story is more stark and hence, necessarily less absurd because it acts as a kind of schematic for his later work.
The first man finally spurs the second to kill him, forcing him into the chaos or, “to go to the zoo,” something from which his social position isolates him.The zoo remains the figurative place where the chaos of one’s life occurs.
The first man is familiar with the chaos of life, the second one not at all.
Holy Crackers! Zoo Story is fantastic! Youthful rage and the kind of shock I've sought for months. RIP E. Albee. You'll be missed.
دوتا نمایشنامه از ادوارد آلبی با ترجمه ناهید طباطبایی(نشر چشمه) باتم امریکن دریم نمایشنامه دوم (رویای امریکایی)خیلی متفاوت و خوب بود.به دو ست داران ادبیات آمریکا ونمایشنامه توصیه میشه.
I really like both plays, but this review is about "The Zoo Story." In order to appreciate it fully you have to understand the driving impulse behind Theatre of the Absurd and the dilemma of the existential condition.
Jerry's discovery - that he cannot forge a connection with anyone, not even a dog - is the foundation of his despair.
It reminds me very much of Roquentin's experiences in Sartre's "Nausea." So, if you like that kind of thing, "The Zoo Story" will be a thought provoking read.
I can't remember the last time I read "The Zoo Story" but its power hasn't lessened over the years. Here in his first play, Edward Albee is already peerless in his command of vitriolic dialogue unleashing a fury against the status quo, an incisive rage that he sustained throughout his career. He may stylize the anger with the satirical "The American Dream" but even in this latter one-act, Albee's poisoned pen drips blood. Albee quote: "That's what happens in plays, yes? The shit hits the fan."
5 Stars for a play for the first time.One of the GREATEST plays I've ever read in my life.Highly recommended fellows :).
مسرحية هزلية satirical غير مباشرة اجتماعية ساخرة..
اللغة مودرن وبسيطة بيسخر من أمريكا عن طريق عيلة من الطبقة الوسطى، عن طريق الحاضر والماضى الجيل الاول(الجدة) والتانى(الآباء) والتالت(الشاب)..
بيسخر من تفاهة وسطحية القيم الاجتماعية والاخلاقية من النفاق من الانتهازية من المادية السائدة فى المجتمعات الأمريكية..
من ناحية تانيه القصة سيرة ذاتيه لحياة Albee نفسه وأهله، مامته بباه وجدته اللى كانت المفضلة عنده.فى اسقاطات غير مباشرة مش هتتفهم من أول مره لما قريت أراء النقاد بدأت افهمها.يعاب ع الكاتب ان أحيانا كان بيكرر الكلام كتير، وده عكس ما قال النقاد، بعتبره انعكاس لتفاهتهم واللاجدوى من حواراتهم.
I really enjoyed reading this short drama tinged with pitch-black comedy that provokes wry smiles.The play consists of one scene: A man decides to break his loneliness by meeting instantly a random person on his way out of the zoo.
Instead of recapitulating directly his concerns, Albee subtly evokes throughout the conversations between the two characters of the play many existential questions related to the anxiousness of twentieth-century man.
***Written and performed after WWII in a period that has witnessed the rising of the Beat Generation, Albee's theater play, according to R.
Jerry and Peter have brief exchanges that take on an importance such that the dialogue plays out as an interrogation of communication itself for the audience.
In double irony, Jerry essentially enlists Peter to act out in a play in which he performs a role to an inevitable and devastating end.
Irony strikes once again when we witness Peter acting out a morally depraved role that is “unexpected” for his class and generally reserved for people of Jerry’s “type”—irrational, impoverished, queer, familyless…The play is dated, but the long psychological distance covered in such a short amount of time packs a punch to the reader.
I'm an Aburdist and not even Camus or Kafka could do for the Absurd what Albee did with it in these two one act plays.
but The Zoo Story as well as The American Dream serve as a quick one-two-punch to the existential gut, The Zoo Story having the potential to eclipse even Virignia Woolf?
Both The Zoo Story and The American Dream are must reads for anyone who wants to know the answers to questions they don't know how to ask themselves.
The Zoo Story is Camus on speed, Beckett on shock therapy, and Kafka binge-eating American cheeseburgers with some sort of curious, fixed grin on his lucid, logical face.
I realized I forgot to add this to my shelves when I read it in fall 2011.
I really enjoyed them.The American Dream is a story about some fucked up parents and the fucked up relationship they had with their past son.
Also, a sassy grandma.
Okay, it's mostly about the sassy grandma.
The Zoo Story is about a strange encounter in a park between an average joe and a slightly-less-than-average, possibly insane man that he meets.
I'm not much of a play person (why have the past couple literature classes I've taken done SO many plays....ew), but I really liked these.
I only read The American Dream.
It is Albee's look at how the American Dream has changed over time.
He seems to believe that today the American Dream is only about good looks, shallowness, and materialism.
I don't disagree with the analysis since many Americans glorify movie actors, sports figures and wealthy corporate owners.
However, the play was boring and repetitious.
Even though it is a one-act play, it was way too long!
This was supposed to be a comedy, but I found only one line to be humorous.
I certainly am being kind to give this play 2 stars.
Fantastic!Peter and Jerry are two men with very different stories and lives, one is living the American Dream while the other is struggling to find acceptance and a place in the world. But differences sometimes lead to coincidences and that's what happens in Central Park, they coincide in that bench; and they have quite a chaotic conversation...“People can't have everything they want. You should know that; it's a rule; people can have some of the things they want, but they can't have everything.”
I guess i'm into absurdist tales of alienation from modern life? I don't even necessarily catch all the themes or symbols, partly I like it just because it's so funny. From The American DreamDaddy (offstage): Mommy! I can't find Grandma's television and I can't find the Pekinese either!Mommy (offstage): Isn't that funny! And I can't find the water.Grandma: Heh, heh, heh. I told them everything was hidden.Mrs Barker: Did you hide the water too?Grandma (puzzled): No. No, I didn't do *that*. Daddy (offstage): The truth of the matter is, I can't even find Gramdma's room.
Albee has long been one of my favourite playwrights, if not my all-time favourite (suck it, Shakespeare), and The American Dream was as poignant as it was dead on. And it will remain to be. Zoo Story just blew me away, and I later went on to work with it in a community theatre group.
"Won't you take off your dress?"
4.5ish these were great
Glancing at all the previous goodreads reviews for this book, I see that most people prefer The Zoo Story to The American Dream.
After reading them, I feel like a Steinway played extra hard.But as to why I prefer The American Dream to The Zoo Story, it seems to have more to say.
Perhaps I'm missing the point of Zoo Story, but I didn't find it particularly disturbing.
(That, and violence, as aforesaid.) Who are Mommy and Daddy?
Why is Grandma living with them?
Did Mommy call the van man?
How did Grandma hide her room?
"The Zoo Story" After reading about 15 pages of "The Zoo Story" it became painfully obvious that it served as the template for "Riverside Drive," a Woody Allen play I recently read in his "Writer's Block" collection.
That play, set in Central Park, just across the West Side from where Mr. Allen has placed ''Riverside Drive,'' used two similar character types to undermine Eisenhower-era middle-class complacency with the rumbling momentum and devastating force of an unforeseen earthquake.It's Albee lite, on purpose, and by no means great drama.
As for this collection, I will share my thoughts for each play respectively.The Zoo Story:This play is my favorite of the two, and it is bizarre in a way that leaves me just kind of sitting there confounded for a minute.
It wasn't my cup of tea, but do inform me if any of you think there is a point I am missing to this play.All in all, I don't think that Albee is really the right playwright for me, but I will extend my patience through one more play.
It is a simple one-act play: two men meet on a park bench, get into a conversation, and it rolls on from there into an exploration of loneliness, miscommunication, alienation, and as so often on the stage (especially in work from this era), the search for meaning amidst modernity and materialism.It is not quite absurdist; at least, it does not approach the levels of Beckett's Godot or Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in its absurdity, though I was drawn to it because of my love for those other two.
Two men, a bench, a conversation is all that is needed for a searching examination of deep and important human themes.I read it again recently after finding a copy in a used bookstore in Halifax, and it was just as good as I remembered it.
This book, composed of two plays by the famous writer, Edward Albee, was quite interesting as well as enjoyable.
I found the first play, The Zoo Story, especially fascinating.
Though, I was not ready for such intensity to occur in this particular play -- and I found it truly ingenious.
The second play (The American Dream) was a bit less intense, but just as peculiar.
Though it was a comedy, I was quite interested in how the drama played a big part of it.
The two plays, The Zoo Story and The American Dream both held me strung to the book in a stage of hypnotic awe.
خانم بیکر که مامی شیفته ی اوست، با بحثی که مادربزرگ شروع کرده، وارد گفتگو می شود.
مادربزرگ می داند چرا خانم بیکر دعوت شده و شرح می دهد که مامی و ددی فرزند پسری را سال ها پیش آداپت کرده اند.
وقتی خانم بیکر می رود، مرد جوانی دم در ظاهر می شود که دنبال کار می گردد.
وقتی قصه ی زندگی اش را تعریف می کند، مادربزرگ او را "رویای آمریکایی" می نامد.
مادربزرگ وسایلش را بر می دارد و می رود و مرد جوان، به عنوان جانشین فرزند مرده، به مامی و ددی معرفی می شود.
A close and fast shot on the human ..how it can be so brutal and wild ..how some situations can reveal that monster inside ..that we thought it was caged only in the zoo!
For me, "The American Dream" and "Zoo Story" were both mind-blowing plays.
Albee touches on the idiosyncracies of the Theatre of the Absurd, and the idea of Existentialism.
He also challenges the traditional state of normalcy and the widely accepted idea of the American Dream.
What I couldn't figure out was the purpose of the characters' names in "The American Dream".
The husband and wife were calling each other "Daddy" and "Mommy", respectively.
She epitomizes the antithesis of the American Dream.
Where the American Dream is historically depicted as an achievement of grandeur, Mommy gains nothing save for a beige/wheat/cream colored hat.
They are both one-acts, very brief bizarre plays that pack quite a punch.The Zoo Story concerns two men talking in Central Park one afternoon.
It's the stronger of the two in this collection and is notable for being Albee's first work that ever made it to the stage.The American Dream is something else.
Why they are waiting for company, I have no clue and I really don't think it matters at the end.
I quite enjoyed it, reminded me of a Godard film, but really it's not for everyone.All in all it's a solid little collection and both plays will stay with you for a while after you've finished.
Zoo Story, I love.
It's a play that everyone reads in high school and finds totally amazing.
Looking over it again, I still love it.
I love the alienation, the loneliness the character who commits suicide describes.
The desperation, and the weird kinkiness of him, in foisting his death on a stranger with a wife, two girls, and a parakeet (or something like that).
Did not like American Dream.
I read it recently for the first time, after seeing a production of it at the Cherry Lane Theater directed by Mr. Albee himself.
I do, however, like how Dad talks about going sticky wet.
I'd already read (and thoroughly enjoyed) a Zoo Story when I picked this up.
It was my first Albee play, and it lead me to read Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, which became one of my favorite plays of all time.
I didn't like The American Dream as much as I like the two other plays of his that I've read—maybe because it seemed less polished—but it has a lot of thematic and stylistic similarities in common with Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, which I enjoyed.
