https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128480.Flowers_of_Evil
In this controversial volume, first published in 1857, Charles Baudeliare discourses upon the concepts of accepted beauty. The decadent is displayed alongside the dark, the usually unspoken alongside the societally endorsed. this lays bears all facets of life and shows the reader how no aspect is mutually exclusive once Baudeliare has drawn a relation to its shadowed twin.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٠قصائد مجنونة مجنونة مجنونة، تزرع فيك بعمق الرغبة بالتمرد والإنطلاق بعيدا عن قوالب الحياة التقليدية
Baudelaire's poems are like what a 15-year-old would write, if you gave a 15-year-old a bottle of absinthe and a book of Greek myths.
Sta reci o Bodleru! Hvala Kolji Micevicu na divnom prevodu.
The actual quality of the poetry is really good, but the translations are often questionable. Sometimes the rhyme scheme gets changed, phrases are put in different orders, even punctuation varies from the original. It's nice to have the French there to look at, though my pronunciation is probably lacking, but overall I think I only like literal translations that don't try to keep the meter and rhyme becuz that's a lot truer to the diction and imagery.
3-5* * *Long since, I lived beneath vast porticoes,By many ocean-sunsets tinged and fired,Where mighty pillars, in majestic rows,Seemed like basaltic caves when day expired.The rolling surge that mirrored all the skiesMingled its music, turbulent and rich,Solemn and mystic, with the colours whichThe setting sun reflected in my eyes.And there I lived amid voluptuous calms,In splendours of blue sky and wandering wave,Tended by many a naked, perfumed slave,Who fanned my languid brow with waving palms.They were my slaves - the only care they hadTo know what secret grief had made me sad.- A Former Life, pg.
A beautiful translation of the immensely charming but difficult French 'Les Fleurs du Mal' - Baudelaire's dark, sensuous themes are unparalleled, perhaps in any language till date. Once outraged the world by its explicitness, now a landmark book, frank and bold in style and mourning, deeply sad in tone.
"on the groaning spirit, victim of long ennui,"

while i agree with the other reviews and know that some of these translations aren't at all true to the originals, i still feel this is something i will continue to re-read well into the future. if the translations are just shadows, i imagine the originals are sublime (now to learn french and find out).
Not the best translation and they left out several of the more controversial poems. I love dover thrift and for a couple of bucks they Rock! This however is not a book to but from them. Do yourself a favor and spend a few extra dollars and get a complete copy that is a good translation.
There were very few poems that appealed to me in this selection. Perhaps the translations are not very good.
Granted from the limited experience I have with world literature, this made me think a bit of Oscar Wilde's "The Picture Of Dorian Gray", in the sense that Baudelaire is trying to capture the "unspoilt beauty".
It doesn't matter in this case whether it's in nature or in something pure or in a shady lady.The difference being that Baudelaire draws the conclusion, I think, that beauty can come from all these things in an unspoilt manner.
It was an interesting enough work and whether one agrees with the "unspoilt beauty" here is a matter of opinion.
I think one of Baudelaire's talents is creating atmosphere.
At times the graphic nature is too much-- the first poem glorifies rape, and there is some glorification of murder.The other poems meditate on how life is one of two things-a bore or a depressed state.
While I agree with this sentiment it was not interesting to read the same sentiment about it over and over.
He also pities poets often, and that too got old.There were times this poetry really created a reaction in me- whether being able to relate to his depression, or fear his dark mind- and times I had trouble connecting to it.
My heart literally hurts, the imagery that Baudelaire stirs up with his wonderful words are truly masterful of literature.
Baudelaire comes right to the point in his draft of the preface to Les Fleurs du Mal: Pretty poems about pretty things are easy.
Pretty poems about the unpretty evils of life?
They have proved ungrateful." Marthiel and Jackson Mathews' collection is remarkable for their dedication to finding the best translation of each poem - a full 19 translators' work appears here, including that of Aldous Huxley and Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Though not for everyone, I find this one worth the money simply for George Dillon's translation of "Lethe," which remains easily the best I have ever seen and one of my favorite poems.
I'm a great fan of Baudelaire and his work, and I guess I was doubling up a little when I purchased this book to read, having quite a few works already of his including the squibbed Intimate Journals which reveals some of Baudelaire's more finer observations - However, I have not read in its entirety "Flowers of Evil", I found the selected prose and verse to be ...
'fruitful idleness' which is as dedicated a review I can offer it, and I use that phrase of course because it is one of Baudelaire's phrases and perhaps his most stubborn demon.
aside from Intimate Journals, Paris Spleen and Twenty Prose Poems.
I got a real bad cold and spent the past week shivering and sweating.
The aches were pretty bad too.
Anyway, I did this thing where I would try and read a poem, but could only get through one before falling into some fever dreams.
I would read the poem, dream the poem, then wake up and read a new one.
I felt like I had stumbled upon the exact right thing at the exact right time, and though I was not in the optimum state for going to work or going outside or even being conscious, I was in the exact perfect state to read Baudelaire.
Baudelaire's Flowers of Evil is a very interesting collection of poems. I really loved the prose and style of the poetry. The imagery that he stirs up with his words are truly masterful of literature. The majority of the poems in this collection depict France during a time of great decadence and growing eroticism. The poems are unhindered and fluidly express the modernity of the time.I very much enjoyed Charles Baudelaire's Les Fleurs du Mal, or Flowers of Evil. It is a fantastic piece of poetic literature--very elegant and stimulating to read.
I can certainly see why the Victorian world was shocked by this book. I love his writing. But in all honesty I do not understand all the poems nor can I wrap my imagination around some of them. Also I need to be in good spirits or the poems would bring me down to the depths of darkness of soul and heaviness of spirit.A good read
I am biased because this translation of the work of Charles Baudelaire was done by a professor of mine. Great translation though, really captures the true essence of the original French. The etchings, also the work of Wesleyan University professor, are the perfect accompaniment to these poems.
I don't know if its the poetry I can't get into or simply a translation that leaves you with a feeling that something fundamental is lost. I get the idea of what Baudelaire is about, but need to be able to read French to really get it.
These poems very often accomplish what they appear to be attempting, or at least what I imagine them to be attempting from what I can gather from the author's preface: to reveal beauty in things that generally bring us sadness or fear. Great concept.
I felt that there was something wrong with the translations. Also, having multiple translators made the text feel as if it wasn't one unified voice. Though, by and large, I did enjoy the poems singularly.
Ah poetry. The beauty of a rotting corpse, the wisps of smoke from a fire, prayers to satan......what? It's poetry.
Baudelaire...is...GOD.
dark
Delightful read and refreshing
A bit melodramatic, but interesting as a period piece.Depressing as well.
"Upon your lips dwells great oblivion/And Lethe flows on in your every kiss"...marvellous..!!
