https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238399.The_Mourner
Parker dealt with the guy, but Bett ended up sneaking away with a gun that had Parker’s prints on it.
(Usually.) But if anyone double-crosses him, then he’ll stop at nothing to get what he’s owed.Another surprising thing in this one is the loyalty he shows to Handy McKay. When circumstances make it appear that ditching Handy would be a safer and more profitable option for several reasons, Parker still sticks with Handy and does quite a bit for him.
Maybe it’s because he’s the closest thing to a friend that Parker has, but it was a little surprising seeing the unsentimental thief stick his neck out for somebody else.

it's also the first 'freak of the week'; that is, one that has nothing to do parker's backstory -- kind of like a mediocre x-files that has nothing to do with the alien mythology and you feel like you might've wasted 44 minutes of your life but it's also okay because it's the x-files and even the clunky stupid bad ones are good (except for the few 'funny' episodes).
because you are reading all the parker novels, aren't you?)and lemme use this space to briefly discuss a tiny aspect of that 'inherent goodness' i was yabbering on about: location, location, location.
yeah, i've kinda become obsessed with the repetition* of similar locations in these parker books.
*3.5 Stars*There aren't loads of substance to these books so far and they're almost all plot, so I would feel weird giving them super high scores.
They've been very consistent so far and Richard Stark always shines with pacing, plotting, and action.This time around, Parker has finally concluded his big F**k-you campaign against the Outfit and now he's ready to go back to doing his regular dirty deeds.
Parker's a bit pissed that his hand is being forced, but he needs the gun back, he's able to swindle a high pay day on the job as well, and the job seems simple enough.
Parker gets blackmailed by Bett Harrow, his "love" interest from previous book, The Outfit, to steal a statue called the Mourner for her father.
Parker and Handy run afoul of another group planning on robbing the same man.
People are killed and Parker makes an alliance with Menlo, a Russian charged with getting back $100,000 the man was skimming off the top.
Only things don't go as planned...As usual, Parker (and Richard Stark, for that matter) delivers the goods.
Even though you know Parker will survive to appear in subsequent books, it's still one hell of a ride.
In Augustus Menlo we don’t have a normal run of the mill character for Parker to overcome, we have one whom Richard Stark clearly loves and adores.When the book focuses on Manlo, it doesn’t just look at the now and his motivations of the instant, it gives us his life story.
It doesn’t work seamlessly, but Stark here does have two fantastic characters in Parker and Manlo and the results are compulsive.Review from January 2010Interestingly the last Dortmunder novel I read ('Don't Ask') featured representatives of an Eastern European government behaving in a duplicitous fashion.
When Parker was finally finished with The Outfit he ended up being blackmailed by a dame who had a troublesome piece of evidence against him, now he must steal The Mourner for her rich daddy.Another slick, fast paced heist with a twist from Stark featuring Lee Marvin and Sydney Greenstreet, as usual with the series it starts off all guns blazing as you're dropped in to the middle of the action before pausing to catch your breath whilst Stark fills in the backstory.
The Mourner is the fourth Parker novel from Richard Stark, pretty much a stand-alone following the first three books that focus on Parker’s war with The Outfit.
As with Dashiell Hammett’s way more famous novel, there’s a statue that needs stealing, and a struggle between our (anti-)hero and two guys, Menlo and Kapor, of undetermined national origin (the Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet of the John Huston film).
There’s a double cross, a two-timing broad, ruthless gunplay, but the tone sort of veers into a comic tone when the super-talkative Kapor and Menlo (the two foreign nationals) give Stark a chance to show off some surprising dialogue, since Parker hates too much talk.
There is something in the book that feels like it's a throwaway, in the overall Parker story this is mostly likely just a side episode (see brian's review for a good X-Files analogy for this book, although I tend to disagree on his assessment of the X-Files, I enjoy the stand alone episodes better than the mythology ones) but there is a small bit of loose ends that are wrapped up here.
Donald E.
Westlake aka Richard Stark knows how to write.
Enjoy hard-boiled...you'll enjoy Stark/Westlake.
This is only my second Parker but oh, yes, no doubt, Parker's growing on me, warts and all.
The Mourner reminds me of the movie Pulp Fiction.
Not the storyline at all but the likability of the bad guys, the characters, and the action of present events, to past events, back to present events.
Westlake was a prolific writer and rather gut the market with his two/three books a year, he decided to write under a number of different pen names.
Patterson, Nora Roberts, Danielle Steele and a number of other authors could take a lesson from Westlake.
Parker's post-score girlfriend Bett Harrow introduces him to her father, who wants Parker to steal a rare alabaster statuette from a foreign diplomat, except that when Parker and his thieving pal, Hardy, start to case the joint, the Outfit is already there in cahoots with someone else. When the Outfit figures out that it has competition, they turn on their employer, a shady foreign character himself. Parker saves him from the Outfit and they combine forces, each seeking a different prize. Then, things go badly awry, leaving Parker/Hardy in deep trouble. Better than the last one, 3.5 stars.
Another very good adventure with Parker. Not quite as high marks because a couple of things were a bit obvious. The books are a bit formulaic, still there were a couple of good twists & it was an enjoyable romp.On to #5.
Thoroughly entertaining yarn from Stark, with Parker embroiled in the quest for a Mourner, one of a set of statues. The story moves back and forth in time, as Parker and Handy encounter old nemesis Bett along with a communist bloc agent.
Another in the Parker series of books about our "not so nice guy" Parker.
This opened up with me wondering what had gotten into Parker as he was on a sort of rescue mission.
BUT I was later relieved to find that his motives were purely selfish and he was worried about the swag rather than the guy.Yeah, Parker's that kind of guy.
He has few scruples and even less compassion...but he's a good thief.As i said another fast moving adventure with Parker (somewhat) blackmailed into a job (though he spots a pressure point he can use to get "an" upper hand.
Worth reading.
I like these.I can recommend it.
A long time ago but remember the series as a great set of tales where the bad guy Parker has a code of ethics which does not always please his associates in crime. There are things he will only do if forced to save his life or close friends. He will also not hesitate to kill you if your violate certain of his rules but tries to never harm the innocent. One of the 'bad guy' characters from writers like Stark / McBain / Spillane / Leonard / Block who we come to accept and even like.
My mind wandered at times.KGB guy Menlo comes to the US to kill Kapor, a Russian diplomat who stole from the KGB.
Parker is the main bad guy, a brilliant strategist.
He partners with different guys for different jobs in each book.If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Butcher’s Moon (Bk #16)Read these four in order:4 ½ stars.
Firebreak (Bk #20)(not read) Nobody Runs Forever (Bk #22)2 ½ stars.
"They had him write the address down, and then they tied him and left him in a closet. They never did remember to go back." What can i say? Another excellent Parker installment. Carries on from The Man With the Get-away Face.Recommended.
He lacks discretionskimming cash for tacky arthalf is generous.
The third Parker I've read this month - and I may keep going. This one owes a little to "The Maltese Falcon" but still classic tough guy stuff.
When the guy with asthma finally came in from the fire escape, Parker rabbit-punched him and took his gun awayIs the sentence which opens this 4th Parker novel, and it is easily one of the better first lines I have ever read and pulled me straight into this new installment of Starks' series.Parker and Handy McKay, who after their last enterprise with the outfit sort of stuck together, get pulled into a theft of the statue "the Mourner" through one of Parkers' ladies who had a gun with his prints on it.
And Parkers' logic and problem solving is once more as surprising as before.This all makes this book a treat & fun to read, well worth your time.
I think it works great at the beginning of the novel: bam, right into action with Parker under attack and defending.
But this same narrative strategy is repeated several more times in the novel and that was less interesting.Westlake knows how to create and give space to the villain - we are rooting for Parker, right?
- and Menlo is a great creation (even if he's an homage to Sidney Greenstreet in The Maltese Falcon) whom Westlake gives over a least a third of the novel to.
His arc was a novella within the novel and it could have been a short-story with the same result.
This was a terrific entry into the very entertaining Parker series and among the best of those I've read to this point.
Don Westlake (aka Richard Stark) was phenomenally talented and the Parker character is just plain fun to follow.
It's just the implacable nature by which he operates that makes the character stand out.
Stark has a clever plot with nice, even pacing here.
He has written books with more plot twists than this one, otherwise I'd have rated it a 5.
As it is, 4.5 stars for yet another winner in the Parker series.
With each outing you get to meet a new crowd of easy marks, shady characters, and thugs.
Then there is her father, a wealthy collector of Medieval sculpture who wants Parker to steal a prime example currently held by an ambassador from a Soviet Block country.
He has no real plan on how to do this, but he will be killing people along the way.Even with the requisite amount of torture and killing, I found this to be an almost zany entry to the Parker chronicle.
Needed more Parker.Seriously though, I think that the Parker books maybe aren't so great for binging on, just because the style, while perfect for what the books are, is so consistent that reading a couple in a row makes it mundane and you lose some of what should be the terrible impact of Parker.It does amaze me though that Westlake can take that style, so clean and harsh, and still write something as beautiful as the description of the statue.
Seriously, how terrible is that cover?
Richard Stark closed the first story arc of the Parker series with THE OUTFIT and creates another with the ashes of the first one.
This is the kind of detail that make my needly tilt like it's bouncing to Eddie Murphy's PARTY ALL THE TIME.Not only THE MOURNER is born out of a clever detail, but it's also the most humorous novel of the series so far, with the author poking fun at the ongoing communist scare of the sixties in his own dry, caustic way.
THE MOURNER is everything you want in a series book.
Even my favorite park of Richard Stark's novels, the planning of the heist, isn't really here.
There is one great chapter devoted to explaining the reasoning behind different getaway plans, but the down to the second scheming found in Man With the Getaway Face and The Outfit is strangely absent considering that this is just another heist novel.The book does have its moments, though, as Parker's ruthlessness continues to grow.
Despite this, Westlake/Stark maintains the characters loyalty to his friends.
I found that aspect of his personality very surprising in the earlier books but I'm glad to see it continues here.
Donald Westlake chose to write them under the Richard Stark pseudonym.
Westlake didn't write any Parker stories after 1974's Butcher's Moon until picking it up again with 1997's Comeback, the 16th and 17th books, respectively.
I got my start with Parker with the excellent Comeback and promptly read each successive story.
But each of these books takes me only 2 days to read, 3 max.
The stories are all characterized by a spare style with the taciturn Parker proving himself to be a ruthless, efficient criminal that doesn't take any grief from anyone.
I didn't think I'd ever find a Parker book I didn't like, but this one is mostly a waste of time.
Parker lacks his usual criminal creativity, getting by more on luck than the meticulous planning and brilliant improvisation that typifies most of this series.
I really enjoyed the opening chapter's fight scene, particularly the way Stark/Westlake kept referring to one of the pugilists as a duffel bag, but I found little else to recommend.If you haven't checked out any Parker novels, I'd start with the first three in order (The Hunter, The Man with the Getaway Face, The Outfit) and then jump around to whichever ones look interesting.
It was not as great as the ones before it.
For one thing, there are no great scenes inside.
The other thing is that the "adventures of a soviet spy" chapter is somewhat cringeworthy.
Sure, I can understand that at the time of writing not enough hard information was available on the Soviet bloc countries and the author used Soviet propaganda and his own speculation as a basis.
That's not the problem.
The problem is that he implies that the spy's superiors are complete morons.
The most blatant examples are that the spy in question does not know American road signs and carries his official documents with him all the time.
Very solid. Pretty much picks up where the last one ended, using the same characters to get into a new heist. The job is pretty straightforward, not as inventive as the usual Parker fare, but the double-crosses and reversals of fortune are great and Parker is as unstoppable as ever. A couple of lengthy expositional chunks slowed things down at times, and the switch of POV to a minor character didn't really go anywhere. The tight, clean prose keeps it interesting and tense, though.Overall a damn good read.
