https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9293020-the-elephant-tree
Criminological Thriller at its best.
Plot : Scott, a drug dealer.
Angela is a drug dealer's daughter.
They want to get out of this bad-bad world.Scott and Angela give you a great time telling their versions.In one way, I enjoyed knowing about the routine of people involved with drug business.
You might like this theme or you might not, but you certainly can't deny the quality of this writing.
I would want to read more of the author's future work.
Suggested For : If you're the person who likes dark, mysterious, suspenseful thriller, don't think much.
Then again, that's a culture I'm completely unaware of and I have to admit it gives you a good sense of the lives of these characters and what they revolve around.Scott has always been talking about leaving the drug dealing life and moving up and finally he's offered a chance to do just that.
There are great characters, a great plot, and everything just fits together in a great timeline with a great pace.Why Should You Read The Elephant Tree?Our society is very interested in drug culture.
The Elephant Tree is a story of a man trying to escape from his own tedious life, initially seeming unconcerned by committing illegal acts, but when presented with the consequences and potential repercussions of some more serious circumstances, forced to question who he is and what he really believes in.
The Elephant Tree is an entertaining criminological thriller that kept me fully engaged.
I really enjoyed it and believe others who like dark, suspenseful and psychological stories will as well.
Although this genre is not my usual cup of tea (it's sort of clubland meets gangland) I thoroughly enjoyed this book and couldn't put it down from the part where Scott and Twinkle do their job. Well worth a read!!
Easy read; full of action. However, multiple spelling errors, inconsistencies and a poor ending made this story forgettable.
Add a mysterious family history, a love-interest that makes Scott's situation more complicated, and a cast of other, seemingly half-decent (and some decidedly not decent), drug-trade related characters, along with some unanswered attacks in the nightclub scene and we have all the makings of a high-pressure, sure to be bloody thriller/mystery/street-drama.
The actual plot is quite good, it just doesn't have that much to do with a gnarled, creepy elephant/human-faced tree.The success of this book lies with the dual external and internal conflicts of it's main character and the building tension of his situation.
my review  here.
I would recommend The Elephant Tree by R.D. Ronald to be a book for high school students an adults. This is a great book for people who enjoy reading about investigations.
overated.If you were young,inexperienced,and not very worldly you would like this book. It made me laugh.Is this "Young Adult Fiction"?Be careful, there are "cannabis" sellers out there!
The plot seemed to be thrown together in the end. The first three quarters were slow leading up the end that finally had me wanting to keep reading. Almost as if he started writing it and needed to hurry to bring it to conclusion. Maybe he hit his stride too late? There were holes in the story and I never really grew to like the characters so the slow part wasn't even successful there. It was certainly an easy read and somewhat entertaining, but left me wanting more.
Really easy read.
Well crafted crime mystery novel with a raw flavor to the details that makes it all feel more real and really gets you hooked.
Loved this book so much I went on to read the author's second novel 'The Zombie Room'.
Also a good read.
His writing reflects the plight of working class people getting in to sticky situations just trying to make ends meet, and survive....
the authenticity of this story and the characters I think stem from his experiences, and it really makes a big difference for me as a reader.
I highly recommend this book!
I usually read a good book in one, maybe two sittings.
The first 120 pages are disjointed and don't insight any intrigue about what is going to happen or how things will intertwine.
Then, it finally gets interesting and that part is over in a few pages.
The final reveal is boring and disappointing.
No one wants to read a story about what happens in the end.
The final few paragraphs read like the author knew how badly we would want it to end...
Maybe he did too.
Overall, the story was okay.
Didn't particularly like it. Finished it because it was the only book I had with me on vacation.
A wild and dark story, a mystery with a bunch of twists and turns. Over the top in places but a thoroughly good read. A psychological drama from the get-go. Definitely recommend it.
How to review this book.entertaining content (you will go through this book within days) but it's like junkfood and not coming to any great awe(some) moments.Scotts is our main character.
He's a small time drug dealer with his friend Neil.
Angela just happens to be the daughter of a middle man drug provider--most importantly Scotts hook up.
As the story goes on we are introduced more importantly to Twinkle.
A big time alcoholic and weed dealer.
Twinkle approaches Scott about an opportunity he may have.The story really takes off when this opportunity is accepted and watch the outcome which is very intersting.
Initially I wasn’t sure what to expect from The Elephant Tree and only bought the ebook because it was cheap but how glad I am that I did.
It’s difficult to describe the certain elements of intrigue in The Elephant Tree without giving away any spoilers, but I will say that this is far more than your typical case of crime fiction – police procedural coupled with predictable clichéd romance then tied off in a bow at the end.
Excellent book, the characters are very relatable despite their criminal activities. The relationship between Scott and Angela is very complicated and interesting. I thoroughly recommend it, great read.
its amazing, i loved every page
it´s amazing, i loved every page
I read this as part of a book club, and I am sorry I wasted my time.
"Angela's walks to the village to check on news of Steph were still a regular part of her week, but as time had gone by they had become less anxious events and now more routine".
(i.e. in one sentence a character's name is Joanna, in the next it's Joanne....) There were many instances within the story where one paragraph so poorly flowed into the next that the author should have begun a new chapter.
There was not ONE redeeming character in the entire book.
The Elephant Tree was a very compelling book from start to end.
Yet this book is different from all the thrillers I have read because it offers more than just adrenaline rush.
The author keeps you intrigued through the various twists and turns.Despite the setting being the world of drug dealers and criminals, you can't help but sympathize with the characters.
Its hard to believe that this is the author's first novel.The ending was really unexpected and despite the huge amount of suspense novels I have read, it still managed to take me by surprise.Overall:Gripping psychological thriller!Recommended?Yes!
To everyone who loves thrillers and suspense, with a depth.
I was really looking forward to reading this book given the blurb on the back.
The blurb on the back is misleading.
The detective features for about 4 pages in the book, the ending is not 'apocalyptic' and all a bit rushed (it all concluded very quickly in about 3 pages) and I find it really patronising to the reader when all the loose ends have to be tied up so neatly.
It all felt a bit rushed, under developed and lacking any real substance which is a shame as the initial premise was good.
I think the best way to describe this novel is as a crime-thriller type book but except for the first and last few chapters the detective is not in the book.
The main characters are low-level drug dealers who work the local bars.
There is a bit of intrigue and some twists and turns but overall there were a few things lacking for me.
The pacing was fairly good and it did (mostly) keep my interest.So, overall, an OK first book - and certainly better than I ever could have done.
Just not a strong enough book for me overall.

The Elephant Tree was recommended to me by a fellow crime-thriller fan. Debut novels can be a little hit-and-miss as a writer finds his (or her) style. The Elephant Tree definitely sits in the category of HIT!The back of the book gives only a glimpse in to the plot and the seedy world occupied by well written, interesting characters. The plot is always exciting and leads you in a world of drug deals and violence, where you don't know who to trust. This is a fantastic thriller and one I'm sure I'll read again on a regular basis.
The character descriptions were incredibly detailed in this novel so that I had a very clear insight into their motives and actions. The actions scenes were also vividly portrayed so that it felt quite real. I finished this book in one setting and was quite pleased with the purchase.
Is there an option to give negative rating? Couldn't get more formula and cliche than this. Utter waste of time.
Great book, keeps you on the edge of your seat, trying to anticipate what will happen next. the kind of book that consumes your mind even when not reading. its a must read!!
DNF at 60%. It wasn't for me, I guess. The title and blurb are misleading. It's awfully slow and has way too many spelling errors.
After the first hundred pages or so, the book finally hooked me. From there things moved pretty quickly. Overall it was a quick, and entertaining read.
Cross-posted from pot fiction dot com.Moving at a deliberate pace, setting itself up for the more gripping second half, The Elephant Tree follows two solemn young people in a dismal, unnamed city.
I’ve read plenty of books, but the main characters in this one always had a drink in hand, and the drugs were much heavier than the synopsis led me to believe.
Continue on, pot fiction reader!This starts as a crime novel, but family and romance take the wheel as you get to know the main players.
