https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33585392-dear-ijeawele-or-a-feminist-manifesto-in-fifteen-suggestions
Your feminist premise should be: I matter. I matter equally. Not “if only.” Not “as long as.” I matter equally. Full stop. I honestly cannot think of any author who writes essays as equally hard-hitting and utterly readable as Adichie does. Perhaps Roxane Gay's work could be said to be as compelling, or Ta-Nehisi Coates's work to be as powerful, but Adichie always comes out on top, for me, as someone who can write about important subjects with a conversational tone that makes them pageturners.T
I honestly cannot think of any author who writes essays as equally hard-hitting and utterly readable as Adichie does.
Perhaps Roxane Gay's work could be said to be as compelling, or Ta-Nehisi Coates's work to be as powerful, but Adichie always comes out on top, for me, as someone who can write about important subjects with a conversational tone that makes them pageturners.This latest essay is a letter Adichie wrote to a friend who asked for advice on how to raise her daughter as a feminist.
So I'll try to take Adichie's advice and put forward my review in human, non-jargony terms: This essay really affected me personally.
I wanted to write a review about how wonderful this book is, but instead I think I need to tell you how necessary this book is.About two months ago I met with Penguin who asked me if I'd do a sponsored video for this book.
I'm two months late, after all!) I got excited to make a video about what passages most spoke to me and to share personal experiences and thoughts I've had to do with feminism.
And so, fascinatingly, sharing my review heightened my appreciation for this book and even added an urgency to my understanding of it.
Teach her that if you criticize X in women but do not criticize X in men, then you do not have a problem with X, you have a problem with women.I'm actually mad that I have to return this book to the library.
I need to own this book.
The author has such a way with words.
She states her opinion in a matter of fact and simple way.
I wish I were able to do the same but I'll have to content myself with using her quotes!It warms my cold dead heart to know that women like her exist out there in the world.
After having seen the scene below shared online, which was taken from this powerful short film, I immediately wanted to absorb myself in some much needed feminist literature. At which point I recalled the existence of Dear Ijeawele, which I'd gratefully received as an ARC.*Trigger warning: rape.*          In We Should All be Feminists, her eloquently argued and much admired essay of 2014, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie proposed that if we want a fairer world we need to raise our sons and daughters dif
After having seen the scene below shared online, which was taken from this powerful short film, I immediately wanted to absorb myself in some much needed feminist literature.
A truly revolutionary book with a handful of innovative quotes that I'd liked to share next:“Your feminist premise should be: I matter.
And after having completed Dear Ijeawele in one sitting, I have one last thing to say: MY HEART IS SO FULL AND GRATEFUL THAT THIS EXISTS.ARC kindly provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.Expected publication: March 7th, 2017 
Still today, I don’t always have a filter (as you probably know if you’ve read some of my previous reviews), but I’m much more considerate of other people’s feelings.But the woman, who was my grandmother’s friend, didn’t take it the wrong way.
I was born this way so I better accept it and put it to good use, like I am doing on this site.I didn’t mean to make this story the focus of my review of this essay/letter.
He never said he was kidding, I thought he was, but he never explicitly said it and why would you say something like that if you didn’t believe you were superior to the other person?
‘your feminist premise should be: i matter. i matter equally. not ‘if only…’ not ‘as long as…’ i matter equally. full stop.’ once again, adichie is the voice of reason and the feminist icon we all deserve. i dont annotate my books but, if i did, i can guarantee nearly every single word of truth in this tiny gem of a book would be highlighted and underlined. there is so much wisdom and significance nestled into this letter that i am of the strong opinion this should be mandatory reading for anyo
‘your feminist premise should be: i matter.
i matter equally.
not ‘if only…’ not ‘as long as…’ i matter equally.
full stop.’
once again, adichie is the voice of reason and the feminist icon we all deserve.
there is so much wisdom and significance nestled into this letter that i am of the strong opinion this should be mandatory reading for anyone and everyone.
but most of all, its a must read for all the strong women of the world - may we know them, may we be them, may we raise them.
“The knowledge of cooking does not come pre-installed in a vagina.”  Chimamanda just can't do no wrong! I had the honour and the absolute pleasure of seeing and hearing her in person over the weekend in London. As expected, the event was just spectacular. This book originated and was inspired by a friend of Chimamanda's who asked her ‘how to raise her baby girl as a feminist.’ The book is short, sweet and ridiculously impactful. The above quote is my favourite alongside many others. As she is
As she is a WOC who speaks on feminism (and more) and as I find her cultural traits more relatable and similar to mine, I love and admire how she continues to advocate for equality and fights to break down the barriers of everything that contributes to sexism, whilst simultaneously empowering women to be who it is they want to be.
I can't help but feel glorious and powerful about myself, who I am as a person and to not back down on my values and my beliefs and what my gut instinct has been telling me for so long after reading this book.
“Teach her to love books. If she sees you reading she will understand that reading is valuable. Books will help her understand the world, help her express herself, and help her in whatever she wants to become.”  Reading, reading is so vitally important in understanding other people and differences. It develops empathy and it makes the world a better place. We should never restrict ourselves in life, men or women, it doesn’t matter as long as we do not full victim to the silly constraints impos
“Teach her to love books.
Books will help her understand the world, help her express herself, and help her in whatever she wants to become.”
This was never written to be published, but was instead a letter written to her friend (Ijeawele) offering honest advice on how to make her daughter into a feminist and a better human being.
Ever.” With it came experience and the suffering of living in a world that alters people’s minds.
Growing up, Adichie and her friend had to learn the hard way.
What she offers her friend in fifteen suggestions is an easier route: to grow up in a society knowing her rights.
The friend has asked her to describe how to raise the daughter to be a feminist in Nigeria, a male centered country.
Even though I recently read We Should All be Feminists, I found that Adichie had offered some new points to ponder, starting from the child's birth.
Rather, anything he contributes to raising his child should be viewed as equal to the mother's work.
Adichie advances her views on child raising through adolescence in hopes that girls are not ashamed of their bodies and that they should still enjoy the same activities that they did when they were younger.
Your feminist premise should be: I matter. I matter equally. Not “if only.” Not “as long as.” I matter equally. Full stop. And this is all I'm gonna mention here!Spectacular!Read it!
Quiero que todos lean este libro. La manera de escribir de Chimamanda es increíble: expresa sus ideas de manera clara y concisa pero sobre todo es cálida y enriquecedora; me ha dejado con ganas de leer más de ella. Y lo haré, muy pronto.
Ever.""If we don't place the straitjacket of gender roles on young children, we give them space to reach their full potential."It feels very appropriate to be writing this review on International Women's Day 2017.
This book may initially propose how to raise a child with the correct feminist tools and that sense of equality.
. Adichie contrasts how a husband allows his successful wife to shine whereas a wife supports her husband or is behind him when he shines.I don't know why I never thought about these different ways of viewing successful women and successful men.
Here's a very short book with a lot of wisdom.Just because it's short it does not mean it is a light read, not at all.Years ago, the author received a letter from a childhood friend who had just given birth to a baby girl.
In the letter, her friend asks Chimamanda for advise on how to raise her daughter as a feminist.
You know she did.The book is divided in small chapters and in each chapter there's a suggestion or topic from the author.
The topics range from gender-neutral clothes to virginity, careers, gender roles and much more.
Spunti di riflessione concreti, pragmatici e chiari su quanto sia necessario il femminismo per una società giusta e una vita più felice. Utile anche per chi ha dei dubbi su femminismo "buono" e femminismo "cattivo". P.S. Adesso non ho più scuse per non leggere "dovremmo essere tutti femministi".
In fact, the idea of blue for boys and pink for girls has slowly become ingrained into society by misogynistic marketing schemes that began in the early 19th century¹ Furthermore, with regard to clothing, Adichie cautions against referring to clothing or fashion styles as immoral ‘because clothes have absolutely nothing to do with morality.’ She suggests constructive advice such as how it doesn’t or does suit them but never to refer to them as ‘looking like a prostitute.’
It doesn't feel so good when turned around does it?Returning to damaging gender norms, Adichie also notes that toys marketed to boys tend to be more mobile “doing” type toys while girl’s are more static, like dolls or playing-house.
This might have been even better than 'We Should All Be Feminists' which I loved a lot. I found myself nodding along to everything Adichie was saying. This is largely focused on motherhood, gender roles, and how to raise your child to be a feminist.
This book was so quotable. Very short but very powerful; I highlighted pretty much every other line. I don't intend on having kids, but this made me think a lot about how we train girls and boys to be and the gender roles we should avoid them adopting, and it was very empowering and great advice.
Hermoso.!!! 💕 Me ha gustado tanto como “Todos deberíamos ser feministas” Que palabras tan sabias y que ideas tan claras tiene esta mujer.!! Se lo recomiendo a todos, tanto hombres como mujeres.!! Dejo algunas de las frases que más me gustaron, aunque casi todo el libro lo tengo marcado ☺”Tu premisa femenina debería ser: Yo importo”.”Todo el mundo tendrá una opinión de lo que deberías hacer, pero lo importante es lo que tú quieras y no lo que los demás quieran que quieras”.”En ocasiones las madre
💕 Me ha gustado tanto como “Todos deberíamos ser feministas” Que palabras tan sabias y que ideas tan claras tiene esta mujer.!!
Dejo algunas de las frases que más me gustaron, aunque casi todo el libro lo tengo marcado ☺️”Tu premisa femenina debería ser: Yo importo”.”Todo el mundo tendrá una opinión de lo que deberías hacer, pero lo importante es lo que tú quieras y no lo que los demás quieran que quieras”.”En ocasiones las madres, tan condicionadas para ser y hacerlo todo, son cómplices de la reducción de la función de los padres”.”Enséñale a tu hija que los “roles de género”son una solemne tontería.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge: A Book by an author of a different ethnicity than youI've never read anything by Adichie until now, so I had no idea how beautiful her writing would be.
I mean, I've read all of the glowing reviews for Americanah, but for some reason I wasn't expecting it.
As for the content on this book, I was in love with the way Adichie thinks and how clearly and concisely she gets her thoughts across in writing.
I was able to speed through this book pretty quickly (it's just over 60 pages long) but I felt like I'd read a much longer book because of how much STUFF is packed in there.
This was great, but I wish it was more trans inclusive coz she implies multiple times that all women have vaginas.

Quiero regalar este pequeño gran libro a todas las mujeres del mundo.
4.5 stars! So important and wonderfully written and explained with examples. I wish it had been longer - I was imagining this as a collection/novel made up of vignettes with the author as a type of wise narrator... A+ material
I love the fact that you write short and anecdotal letters that can be shared between my three children and myself in a library on a dark winter afternoon.I can't say how much it means to me that you have a voice that is clear and sharp and kind enough to reach out to both my sons and my daughter.
I am angry about sexism.
Because I love, and live among, people who easily acknowledge race injustice but not gender injustice."Dear Chimamanda, we talked about this, my children and I.
Confession.I need 4 more books to make my 2018 goal.
Audio books.
Short audio books.
My Overdrive app offers a section for short audio books under three hours.
And anyone can do it!I've got this goal.
I am willing to bet you won't call any little girl "Princess" in the future after reading Adichie.Adichie, in 15 suggestions, tackles sexual politics, clothes and make-up, and choices of toys for your child.
TEACH HER TO LOVE BOOKS.Note: I was so disappointed with the American narrator.
Why no Nigerian narrator, Penguin Random House?
I've listened to two other Adichie books, both with lovely Nigerian narration.
I loved this little book.As someone getting married and starting to think about having children, this book resonated so strongly with me, and really inspired me in a couple of areas for how I want to approach my relationship and parenting.
It's like in one little book she managed to summarize so many things I feel like I've learned and begun to care about in the last decade, and threw in a few more ideas as well.
As soon as I finished it I immediately handed it to my fiance, to help us even further get on the same page.
I've read a few things by this author now, and I havent been let down by her yet.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie has the most incredible way with words and how to get her points across with humour and hope. This, a letter to her friend who asks her 'how do I raise my daughter feminist?', was brimming with warmth and power whilst asking us all to check ourselves and how feminist we are when we say what we do and act as feminists.
Dear Ijeawele is Chimanda Ngozi Adichie's response to her friend's request for advice on how to raise her baby girl a feminist.
Many of the suggestions include changing the language we use with our daughters and examining attitudes about marriage and relationships, identity, and gender roles.
Of course, the author and her friend are Nigerian, and I enjoyed her inclusion of Nigerian culture and cultural expectations in that country.I could relate to quite a few of her suggestions.
Another topic Adichie explored that I related to was marriage.
I think if you enjoyed We Should All Be Feminists, you'll definitely want to add Dear Ijeawele to your list.
As a mother of a son and daughter(s), this book speaks to me on a deeply personal level and I hope I can raise my children with a sense of what it is to be a feminist.
All I want for them all is to grow up in a society that is inherently equal to all, without any biases towards what they grow up to be.I hope they already have some idea about the values discussed here.
It’s a fight that I’ll continue to make as long as gender inequality exists, to ensure a better world for my children.
Her feminist essays come across as tepid with no real depth opposed to her novels, which present a much more in-depth picture of her subject and the Nigerian culture by using a more focused approach than just listing off the general "do's and don'ts" of feminism.
In short, to me, Adichie's essays on feminism seem generic and forced after that Beyoncé shoutout she got in 2013.
Don't get me wrong, I'll always support Adichie in her writing endeavors, but her feminist essays are becoming a bit redundant.
