https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16341.The_Moving_Finger
“There is too much tendency to attribute to God the evils that man does of his own free will. I must concede you the Devil. God doesn't really need to punish us, Miss Barton. We're so busy punishing ourselves.”  Summer and winter are begging for an Agatha Christie masterpiece. Well, any season is fine, really, but extreme heat and extreme cold make most us seek a nice, cozy atmosphere, a good mystery (and what Agatha mystery isn’t good?) and the lovely Miss Marple. Every July and August I re-re
“There is too much tendency to attribute to God the evils that man does of his own free will.
God doesn't really need to punish us, Miss Barton.
Well, any season is fine, really, but extreme heat and extreme cold make most us seek a nice, cozy atmosphere, a good mystery (and what Agatha mystery isn’t good?) and the lovely Miss Marple.
Every July and August I re-read Miss Marple’s adventures and I usually reserve winter for lovely Hercule.
It is not accidental that Marple appears rather late and yet she is not missed at all.
even in such an innocuous place as the village of Lymstock, where Jerry Burton moves with his sister to convalesce from war-inflicted wounds.
Old secrets, animosities are rising to the surface and things do get ugly when a murder is committed shortly afterwards, placing the first death in a new light.Once again, Dame Agatha's genius is at work in this novel: the mystery is simple yet it is so cleverly hidden in plain sight that you will not discover the fire behind the thick smoke.
(or at least I didn't.) The protagonists -siblings Jerry and Joanna Burton- are delightful, sympathetic characters.
Eccentric vicar's wife Mrs Calthrop invites sweet old Miss Jane Marple to unravel clues that Jerry recognizes when he dozes.عنوانها: «نامه‌ های مرگبار»، «انگشت اتهام»؛ «دست پنهان»؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و ششم ماه نوامبر سال 2013 میلادیعنوان یک: «نامه‌ های مرگبار»، نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: «عباس پورتمیجانی»، نشر: «انتشارات عطایی، تاریخ چاپ دوم: 1373»، در 197 صفحه، شابک: 9643130096عنوان دو: «انگشت اتهام»، مترجم: «بهزاد منتظری»، نشر: «انتشارات سبزان، تاریخ چاپ نخست: 1387»، در 264 صفحه، شابک: 9789648249781عنوان سه: «دست پنهان»، مترجم: «مجتبی عبدالله‌نژاد»، نشر: «تهران، کتاب هرمس، کتابهای کارآگاه، تاریخ چاپ 1388»، در 216 صفحه، شابک: 9789643636210چکیده: چهارمین از ماجراهای «دوشیزه مارپل»: روستای آرام «لیمستوک»، محل مناسبی برای آرامش «جری بورتون»، و خواهرش «جووانا» بود.
Mi-a plăcut! "În viața fiecăruia există capitole ascunse care, sperăm noi, nu vor fi dezvăluite vreodată." "Cât de multe știm la un moment dat? Mult mai mult - sau, cel puțin, așa consider - decât credem că știm! Dar nu putem ajunge la acele cunoștințe ascunse. Sunt acolo, dar nu le putem atinge."
Everything is so utterly uneventful here, that one might be tempted to attribute its inhabitants' main cause of death to boredom, rather than old age.
I especially enjoyed the grand reveal, when it turned out that I had never even suspected the culprit.
So why doesn't the lovable old lady make its appearance until the 80% mark?!
Except for the sudden flowery turn towards the end, but I'm willing to give it a pass.
I shouldn't have assumed stuff just because GR marks this book as being part of a series.
Only I do have the same complaint I had with another of her books that was listed as a Miss Marple Mystery.
Jane Marple doesn't appear until the last 1/4 of the book and then she's just a cute little old lady who says a few words at the end.
That doesn't count as a Miss Marple mystery for me!!
The main characters in this story are Jerry and Joanna, a clever, funny brother and sister pair who come to the small village of Lymstock so Jerry can recover from some unnamed accident.
داستان از جایی شروع میشه که جری برتون و خواهرش جوانا برای استراحت به یه روستا میرن و اونجا نامههای ناشناس توهینآمیزی برای افراد مختلفی میره و ...کتاب معمایی خوبی بود ولی انسجام داستان یه کم پایین بود و شخصیتپردازی متوسطی داشت. نقش خانم مارپل توی کتاب خیلی حاشیهای بود. کلیشههای عاشقانه کتاب کمکی به جذابتر کردنش برای من نکرد.----------یادگاری از کتاب:افکار و احساسات آدمها روی در و دیوار تأثیر میگذارند.
داستان از جایی شروع می‌شه که جری برتون و خواهرش جوانا برای استراحت به یه روستا می‌رن و اونجا نامه‌های ناشناس توهین‌آمیزی برای افراد مختلفی می‌ره و ...کتاب معمایی خوبی بود ولی انسجام داستان یه کم پایین بود و شخصیت‌پردازی متوسطی داشت. نقش خانم مارپل توی کتاب خیلی حاشیه‌ای بود. کلیشه‌های عاشقانه کتاب کمکی به جذاب‌تر کردنش برای من نکرد.----------یادگاری از کتاب:افکار و احساسات آدم‌ها روی در و دیوار تأثیر می‌گذارند.
My Reactions: -The brother and sister duo are stellar and I loved their banter!-Jerry's views on women are both archaic and sweet at times.
The murderer seems quite obvious but keeping with the theme "there's no smoke without fire" Christie creates a smokescreen that had me fooled for most of the book as well.
When they arrive to Lymstock, both are amused by the small town life, its characters, local culture, and its quirks.
Until Jerry receives his letter from the local "Poison Pen" which accuses the pair most vulgarly of being in an illicit relationship and not brother and sister at all!
Pros: I liked the main character brother-sister duo of Jerry and Joanna, and it was an interesting variation on the traditional poison-pen mystery.
Most of the characters were less hateful than is often the case in Golden Age British mysteries, which made it a relaxing read for a sick day.Cons: Why is this a Miss Marple mystery?
She hardly appears and there's no reason, in terms of the plot, that the case could not have been solved in exactly the same way by the police, who seemed competent.
I would rather have had the two detectives have more page time and development.
“Most crimes, you see, are so absurdly simple.”My edition features a beautiful afterword by Claudio Savonuzzi, in which this novel is called “a black fairytale” complete with a Cinderella and a Prince properly dressed for the occasion, and where it is noted how this is the only Christie detective novel where the detective where the detective almost lets the readers forget she (this is a Miss Marple mystery) is there.
Because what Savonuzzi writes in that afterword is all true: it's almost as if The Moving Finger wrote itself of its own accord, and Christie simply was the moving finger, which is also precisely part her Miss Marple played in this adventure.
This is the fourth Miss Marple mystery, although the narrator is Jerry Barton, while Miss Marple does not appear until late into the novel.
As suspicion grows and everyone suspects each other, Mrs Dane Calthrop, the vicar’s wife, declares that she is going to call in an expert – of course, Miss Marple.
This is a very different mystery from previous Miss Marple books; mainly as she does not have a central role.
That said, I enjoyed Jerry Barton as a narrator and liked his sister and the other characters of the village.

Read this and more review on my My Book blogAs you can see I've been on a diligent Agatha Christie kick.
About 8 years ago I read many, many of her books.
A fair warning, if you are looking for a mystery novel where Miss Marple is up to her elbows with solving crimes - this is not the book for you.
I know many people probably won't enjoy not having the famous Marple much in this book, but I actually really liked this format.
It actually astonished me how many things must have went over my head the first time I was reading it.
Στην αυτοβιογραφία της η Αγκάθα Κρίστι δηλώνει πως τούτο δω είναι το καλύτερο από τα μυθιστορήματα απ όσα έγραψε με την μις Μαρπλ. Πιθανόν. Ένα πάντως είναι το σίγουρο. Ένα κλασικό της βιβλίο που θα το διαβάσουν ευχάριστα αλλά και με αγωνία, όχι μόνο οι φίλοι της αλλά και όσοι αγαπούν τα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα. Τα οποία βέβαια δεν έχουν καμία σχέση με την σημερινή πολύπλοκη ζωή μας και τα πολυσέλιδα (τούβλα...) ακριβά βιβλία!
Στην αυτοβιογραφία της η Αγκάθα Κρίστι δηλώνει πως τούτο δω είναι το καλύτερο από τα μυθιστορήματα απ΄ όσα έγραψε με την μις Μαρπλ. Πιθανόν. Ένα πάντως είναι το σίγουρο. Ένα κλασικό της βιβλίο που θα το διαβάσουν ευχάριστα αλλά και με αγωνία, όχι μόνο οι φίλοι της αλλά και όσοι αγαπούν τα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα. Τα οποία βέβαια δεν έχουν καμία σχέση με την σημερινή πολύπλοκη ζωή μας και τα πολυσέλιδα (τούβλα...) ακριβά βιβλία!
This one has romance and mystery in equal amounts: for a change, I found the mystery only so-so, but I loved the romance!
لا أحب كتابة مراجعات عن نوعين من الكتب: الروايات البوليسية و كتب العلوم الشرعية، لذا سأكتفي هنا بتوض
The fourth Miss Marple, and again an excellent read. Yet again, despite seeing multiple TV and film versions, I had forgotten who the culprit(s) was (were), and didn't guess until very close to the end (I think it was about 20 pages behind Miss Marple resolving it).The story is well woven, with some very lively characters and strangely it is not until a long way through (around 3/4) that Miss Marple appears to solve the problem. Even with her late appearance it is still a thoroughly enjoyable and a masterful performance.
ه نظر میرسید که روستای آرام لیمستوک محل مناسبی برای آرامش جری بورتون تحت مراقبت و خواهرش جووانا بعد از تصادف باشد. اما خبر نامهای آغشته به سم در میان مردم پخش شد که رابطه نا مشروع، بین جری و جووانا را بر ملا میساخت، شوک آورتر اینکه نامه کریه در سرتاسر روستا میچرخید. وقتی خود کشی صورت گرفت روستا در شوک عمیقی فرو رفت. چندی بعد شخصی را برای تحقیق به روستا فرستادند که کشیش، دکتر و خدمتکاران را در معرض اتهام قرار داد، میهمان خانه کشیش کسی نبود به جز دوشیزه ترشیده، کارآگاه جین مارپل...
ه نظر می‌رسید که روستای آرام لیمستوک محل مناسبی برای آرامش جری بورتون تحت مراقبت و خواهرش جووانا بعد از تصادف باشد. اما خبر نامه‌ای آغشته به سم در میان مردم پخش شد که رابطه نا مشروع، بین جری و جووانا را بر ملا می‌ساخت، شوک آورتر اینکه نامه کریه در سرتاسر روستا می‌چرخید. وقتی خود کشی صورت گرفت روستا در شوک عمیقی فرو رفت. چندی بعد شخصی را برای تحقیق به روستا فرستادند که کشیش، دکتر و خدمتکاران را در معرض اتهام قرار داد، میهمان خانه کشیش کسی نبود به جز دوشیزه ترشیده، کارآگاه جین مارپل...
Day by day I am becoming Agatha freak.মিস মারপলের পূরণাঙগ উপনযাস দয মুভিং ফিঙগার ওরফে বেনামী চিঠির সাথে আরও ছয়টা ছোটগলপ নিয়ে এই সংকলন।পরথম গলপ রকতের দাগ/The Bloodstained Pavement পড়ে একদমই ভালো লাগেনি। শারলকের মতো আকাশ-বাতাস থেকে কলু এনে হাজির করে রহসযভেদ করা হয়েছে। বাকি ৫টা গলপের মধযে খুব ভালো লেগেছে সনদেহ আর নীল ফুল -- আর বাকি ৩টা মোটামুটি ভালো লেগেছে।তবে আসল জিনিস, অরথাৎ উপনযাস বেনামী চিঠি/The Moving Finger সময় পুরো উশুল করে দিয়েছে। করিসটির সবভাবসুলভ গলপ-বলার ভঙগিমা আর রহসযের মারপযাঁচে ভালোই


Gossip Girl and Miss Marple. Someone is on to everyones hidden secrets. But are they true? And who is the author of the letters? Luckily it doesn't take 6 seasons to find out. (By the time the Gossip Girl was revealed did we even care?)
Jerry Burton and his sister Joanna move to the quiet village of Lymstock.
But shortly after their arrival, Jerry and Joanna receive a rather unsavory letter accusing them of an absolute lie.
That is until they learn that most people in the village have received similar letters.
While I absolutely love Miss Christie and her work, this particular installment is my least favorite thus far.
Do not get me wrong, all of Miss Christie's trademarks are on these pages (the quiet village, the nosy neighbours, red herrings and a curmudgeoned detective).
Another delightful Christie mystery where the answer is staring you in the face.The main characters are siblings Jerry and Joanna who have only just moved to Lymstock to then discover there is a poison-pen writer at large.
And the letters don't even seem to have a hint of truth to them.Naturally poison pen letters can only be written by middle aged spinster women (I love that this is the second book I've read from this time period recently with this assumption!!) and so that narrows down the field of suspects from the start.Ms Marple is invited by her friend to come and see if she can solve the mystery, which she does in the end.
Although I think Jerry may have been able to solve it without her.
I've read this several times and have seen the videos - but, of course, they always seem to change the story. It is enjoyable. Probably one of the few books where Miss Marple doesn't come into the picture until the book is three-quarters done. But, enter she does, to solve the murder.Much of the book is consumed by the problem of anonymous poison pen letters. Then the bodies start falling.Enter Miss Marple.
Bom para passar o tempo mas muito fraco quando comparado com outras obras da autora. Faltou-lhe alguma ação, a Miss Marple só aparece nas últimas 50 páginas...Opinião mais detalhada em breve.
السبب الي يخليني احب اجاثا كريستي اني احس في رواياتها روح مرحة على الرغم من انها روايات جريمة لا تسألوني شلوووون بس جذي ...
روايات اجاثا كريستي فيه روح مرحة لا تخطأ ...
وكل قضية تواجهها تربطه بشكل او بآخر بشي تافه ويضحك صار في سينت ميري ميد...
و كل ما امشي في شوارع المنطقة الي انا قاعدة فيها ادور عن عجوز انجليزية تذكرني بمس ماربل بس للحين ما لقيت:) :) :)اذا كنت مثلي تحب تقرا كتب الغموض والجرائم الخالية من الوصف المقزز للجرائم ...
فروايات اجاثا كريستي بشكل عام تخدم الغرضعلى فكرة هالرواية فيها شوية رومانسية :) بعدالمزيج المثالي بالنسبة لي ...
One of Agatha's best, I think. A very clever, simple solution that makes you look back on everything that's gone before and see it in a different light. Miss Marple's hardly in it, so it doesn't really feel like a Miss Marple book, but there's so much good stuff in it, you don't really mind. Mrs Dane Calthrop, the vicar's wife, is a wonderful character.
من المؤسف انه عند اعادة طباعة روايات أجاثا كريستى يتلاعب المسئولون بالنشر بالعناوين, فلقد قرات هذة الرواية من سنوات تحت اسم "جريمة فى القرية" و مازلت أتذكر بعض التفاصيل و ان تحيرت بين قاتلين محتملين لذا اكملت قراءة الرواية.
هذة الرواية هى أضعف روايات أجاثا مقارنة بباقى كتاباتها, و لكنها تظل متفوقة على بعض الروايات الحديثة التى تجذب القراء هذة الأيام.
تظل أجاثا كريستى هى أجاثا كريستى حتى و هى فى أسوء حالاتهاتبدأ الرواية بانتقال الأخوان جيرى و جوانا برتون الى قرية لامبستوك للبحث عن الهدوء.
ظهرت مس ماربل فى الربع الأخير من الرواية لتنقذ الموقفتناولت أجاثا بشكل واقعى الحياة كما هى فى الريف و التى لا تزال موجودة كما هى حتى اليوم.
3.5*I am slowly rereading the Miss Marple books this year. This 3rd one barely qualifies as a Miss Marple as she doesn't make an appearance until about 80% of the way through. Of course, she quickly solves the case once she appears on the scene! It is almost as if Christie's publisher talked her into adding in a familiar sleuth rather than making it one of her stand-alone mysteries...Richard E. Grant is marvelous in his narration of the audiobook. I really appreciated all the different voices he did for the different characters!
Frumos scrisă, dar finalul nu m-a impresionat.
