https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3220405-ender-in-exile
My Amazon review (yeah, I was pretty pissed):Subj: Deeply alienated by Card's recent work.A disappointing, socially unimaginative flattening of a character and a world I once loved very much.
This novel was rife with ideologically and spiritually conservative addresses to the reader that seemed to diverge from the far ranging and broad discourses of the other books, at least the way I read them so many years ago.
I think that Orson Scott Card and George Lucas must have had a meeting at some point and came up with all the ways you can destroy a franchise by adding on useless and clumsy story to your original work.Card wrote one of my favorite sci-fi books, Ender's Game, and then ruined every good feeling I had towards him by a parade a horrible sequels and tie-ins that either have nothing to do with the original story or repeatedly revise and rehash the original material so much that it's in danger of becoming just as bad.
Both “Ender’s Game” and “Speaker for the Dead” deservedly picked up Hugos when published and now, 30 years and several sequels later, Card revisits the time period between “Game” and “Speaker” in his latest novel in the Ender storyline.After creating the parallel novel, “Ender’s Shadow” and the subsequent series about Bean, Petra and Peter’s rise to power in the world, Card shifts the focus of the series back to the title character, Ender Wiggins.
Ender in Exile is what I wanted as a sequel to Ender's Game when I read Speaker for the Dead many years ago.
Instead, Speaker for the Dead seemed to have a completely different Ender and the storyline through the following books (Xenocide and Children of the Mind) was written for people who swim in the deep end of the Sci-Fi genre.
I also recommend the Intergalactic Medicine Show for those who would like to take occasional forays into the deep end of the Sci-Fi/Fantasy genre but don't want to invest too much time in it.
Whenever anyone asked me what science fiction books were worth reading, I'd always recommend Ender's Game.
Sort of how you feel about good Tolkien fan fiction.
"Tell us more about Pippin, please Mr. Tolkien?" But in a way, the book felt too much like fan fiction.
Almost like Card was trying too hard to sort out loose ends, and fully describe every plot decision he made at the end of Ender's Game.
And in trying too hard he makes Ender's characterization a little too perfect, too all-knowing, and Valentine too ineffective and shut out.
Not sure what this (somewhat recent) addition brings to the Ender Series. I enjoyed the sequels to Ender’s Game which had begun with Speaker for the Dead (and now begin with Ender in Exile). I really enjoyed Ender’s Shadow (if not the Bean sequels which followed that). Ender’s Shadow provided something new even if it was a parallel story to Ender’s Game. In an Afterword, Card explains that Ender in Exile eliminates inconsistencies from the conclusion of Ender’s Game. While I was okay with another appearance of Ender, I’m not sure that was enough.
This a prime example of how everything that Orson Scott Card has written since Shadow of the Giant is terrible and going down the tubes.
He does not write the way he use to with emotions of characters that you really cared about.
I felt no connection to any of the characters, even Ender seemed flat and lifeless in this book.
He is know I feel writing to the masses to make a couple of dollars.
He is now for me one of the most dissappointed author I have ever read.
I feel like I should break up with him.
What this means is the characters are not solid real people, even those we've come to love such as Ender just exist for Orson Scott Card to take over and use to push his agenda.For example, you get a whole entire scene with two doctors trying to work on taming an alien environment.
If you want a real story with a plot, with human characters that are just not Orson's Scott Card's puppets, there's other things out there that are much better to read.Also, has Valentine always been this annoying?Also, might I add, is it possible for some woman to just do a play and get a man to fall in love with her?
It records the thoughts and conversations of Ender's family on Earth (parents, Peter, and Valentine) concerning whether he should return home.The book contains expanded details of Graff's court martial, Ender's voyage to his first colony world, Valentine authoring The Hive Queen, Ender authoring The Hegemon, and more examples of Ender's understanding and empathy for buggers and humans.At the end, I still had questions:Whatever happened to Alessandra?What happened between Sel and Afraima?What communication did Ender have with his parents?
This Ender in Exile is said to be the 6th book in the series and it begins one year after Ender has won the Bugger War, and ends at that time… there you go again, I said no spoiler you silly old man!
In the first book, Ender’s Game, that I think my formerly angry friend has read already, Ender, who is being trained at Battle School, is asked to do simulation in the computer without knowing at what he does there are actually happening in the galaxy so in the process he annihilates a race including at least two of this race’s leader.
Within the context of the novel, each is breezed through with such haste that I was on the second to last page of the book before I realized, "Oh, that was the dramatic climax, wasn't it."Ender in Exile is published as a novel, but it's really a collection of episodic short stories that constitute a novel only in appearance.
Or—perhaps better still—leave them as-is on Intergalactic Medicine Show, affirming that Card's contribution to the zine actually has some worth and isn't just a venue for double-publishing the same work.In my ideal, Ender's recovery, dealing with the last Hive Queen, dealing with his family, and dealing with Achilles would have spanned an entire novel at least as long as Exile instead of a few scattered chapters.
Seeing Ender's thought process following the end of the Formic War was much more satisfying than reading about it as events that had already occurred, as we did in Speaker of the Dead and its sequels.
One thing I wished the book had included was at least one response from Ender's parents to his first letter home.
His letter packed a powerful punch, and it's a shame we didn't get to see what his parents had to say in return.Although this is billed as a direct sequel to Ender's Game, it wouldn't make any sense without reading the Shadow books first.
Those that have read the Shadow books (Ender's Shadow, Shadow of the Hegemon, Shadow Puppets, Shadow of the Giant) know that is exactly what happened to other Battle School children--including Petra, Bean, and Alai--when they returned.
Ender chooses because he wants those two years desperately to make him "mature" into a man that a colony of strangers would respect.
On this ship and on this colony are several people whom the reader first met in one or more of the Shadow books.So Ender in Exile is also the direct sequel to Shadow of the Giant.
I picked this up from my library with the hopes that a younger version of Ender would once again capture my imagination.With Ender in Exile, we find Andrew (Ender) Wiggin, the boy whose brilliant military strategies saved the world from the alien Buggers, coming to terms with how he has caused the deaths of millions while thinking he was only playing a war game.
The entire novel is neither a prequel nor a sequel, but another side by side companion that takes place between chapters 14 and 15 of the original Ender’s Game, and throughout the Shadow series.
I have no idea what this book is. Orson Scott Card needs a direction/categorize for this book like he did with the other Ender books. The basic fact is that he took out all the moral/emotional fact from the original books was what made this book more like any other novel out there. He just needs to clear his head before writing anything now a days. He has lost his magical touch since writing Shadow of the Giant, which to me is his last great book.
Ender in Exile (The Ender Quintet, #2)و Orson Scott Card
Of all the books in the enderverse, my favorites are Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead.
Readers really do come to love him.After Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead, Exile maybe my "third" favorite - but do not underestimate the "third" :)
This book not being a Bean based book, although I have enjoyed those as well,it was nice to be back with the boy the created the universe.
This book takes place between chapter 14-15 of Ender's Game and does a very nice job setting up the following trilogy more than the book alone did twenty years ago.
It was not a needed book but it was welcomed book that I was more than earger to tear through.
After having been asked to contribute an Essay on the Ender Universe to an upcoming collection of Essays, I realized that Ender in Exile was the only Ender book I hadn’t read, so I picked it up right away.
Orson Scott Card can’t write a bad book.
For instance, he must be asked constantly by fans “why did the formic queens all gather on the same planet if they knew there was a chance the planet might be destroyed?” He suggests a rational and believable answer for that in this book.
I am really angry that OSC got me so hard, so early, with Ender's Game, such that I want to read about the Wiggin siblings and their world even well past the point where it has become apparent that Card no longer writes books I will enjoy.
I think this one, with various meandering digressions (at least one of which I found offensively misguided), lack of emotional payoff at any point in the story, and characters whose behavior seems inconsistent with my memories of them in earlier books, may have finally killed off that impulse.
No more Orson, no more Ender.
My introduction to Orson Scott Card came through a graphic novel I found in one of my bargain book hunts.
Originally published by Marvel Comics as a five issue miniseries, this book collects those issues in hardcover.Set after the events of the first Ender novel, this was touted as a direct sequel to Ender’s Game.
I have two options on reading further on this character, the original novels or the two graphic novels that preceded this.I may also read further Card’s other comic book work for Marvel.
He has two volumes of Ultimate Iron Man credited.
The same colony inhabited by the survivors of the Third Invasion, whom Ender had unknowingly lead into battle.The book deals with a detailed account of how Ender is exiled, the time period of two years in the ship.
During this time, E der must learn how to become a proper governor, while at the same time fight in a struggle for power against the captain of the ship, who barely has faith in Ender's skills.All in all, it's a fairly good book.
We all know who that was.
The question is, how and how much does he know?
This book serves a weird role in the Ender series.
It's both a direct sequel to  Ender's Game and the conclusion to the Shadow series, tying up some threads left by Bean, Petra, Peter, and Virlomi.
But it also expands on that final chapter, to give more backstory to  Speaker for the Dead and more fully explain Ender's time as the governor of the first former Formic colony.I enjoyed this addition to the series, but I really wish that  Orson Scott Card didn't change the narrator so frequently.
Card can write fantastically in his sleep, although I kind of feel like he snored right through this one a little too much.
It fills the same role in the Enderverse as Back to the Future II: a good story in its own right, but kind of just something to fill in the holes between his really great works.
It feels like about 3 or 4 short stories that were smooshed together like play-doh.Card makes Ender too much of a Mary Sue character here.
Card's expertise at characterization and dialogue save the book; I loved and cared about the characters and was entertained the whole way.
It was an enjoyable read, but as a book, it doesn't have much of an identity in and of itself.
Still more of it works to justify some of the major cultural changes in the 'verse between ENDER'S GAME and its original sequel, SPEAKER FOR THE DEAD.
As a fan of the series as a whole and of universe-building works in general, I enjoy the book, but I feel more as though I've read a series of novellas or short stories starring the same characters and linking to larger works instead of a complete novel in and of itself.
I'm honestly not sure this book needed to exist.
While it does tie up all the dangling plotlines from the Shadow series, the book as a whole doesn't really have any driving conflict.
It's more just "here's what happened to Ender in the immediate aftermath of the Bugger War." There are two seeming conflicts in the book, but they both seem manufactured, just to give Ender something to do.Thrilled as I am to have another Ender book, I think it would have been better if the Bean stories had just been wrapped up in a novelette, or even better, at the end of the last Shadow book.Perhaps the main conflict I'm missing is an internal one within Ender, where he has to confront the killer inside, but that conflict was wrapped up pretty nicely, I thought, in the actual Ender's Game sequels.
Exile, is, in this reader's opinion, far more complete than Ender's Game. In the short span of his voyage to his second home, Ender is so much more fleshed out, more well understood. By now, Card has had several ventures into the mind of his greatest character, and IT SHOWS. While I certainly intend to read the rest of the vast Enderverse, Exile may well be the peak by which the others are, unintentionally, measured.
And he thinks he's pretty great.
A bit long winded, but I think that Ender fans might like it.
Just because his genes were shaped deliberately [wait for it:], by a criminal scientist [there we go:], doesn't mean they're any less than OUR genes, which are shaped by random selection between the genes of our father and the genes of our mother [yeah, it'll get more wordy:].
And that's where Card had me again.Do you think that if Card and I ever met, we'd talk much like Ender and Valentine?
Their stories, and relationships with Ender don’t have any lasting impression on him, and Orson Scott Card didn’t do anything to make me care for them much either.
Overall, I was rather disappointed in this, and I’ll have to go back and reread Ender’s Game (yet again), to get the bad taste out of my brain (and to reassure myself that it’s still good).In the Afterword, Card mentions that he’s eventually re-releasing another edition of Ender’s Game – one where he’s rewritten chapter 15 to adjust for the timeline of events that he fleshes out in Ender in Exile.
I've been in love with the Ender books for a decade now. My only complaint has been for Xenocide, a necessary, but extremely boring book. Now it saddens me to say I have another complaint. The book that was meant to tie together the end of the Shadow series and the beginning of the Speaker series and answer all the question we still had. It does nothing. It answers all the questions we didn't care to ask. Adds conflict where there didn't need to be, making the mass of the book. While the confli
And then for him to actually rewrite chapter 15 of Enders Game to fit the storyline of THIS book.
Get rid of the conflict with Admiral Morgan, this is no adversary for Ender to waste so much time on.
You give this character the intelligence of Bean and still make the conflict an easy task for Ender.
In the end I can't suggest you read this book, but it's only going to be picked up by fans of the Ender series anyway, and nothing I can say would be able to convince them NOT to pick it up.
