https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397334.Where_Are_You_Going_Where_Have_You_Been_
At the same time, I’d also heard of a couple of Oates’ retellings, a Chekhov and a James Joyce, that happen to be included her as well; I next read those.
I think I’d been daunted by the size of the volume and I know awhile back I’d grown tired of Oates, which is wont to happen with writers I’ve read so much of and who are so prolific.
A couple of the other stories seemed vaguely familiar, as if I’ve read them before, and maybe I have.
Shades of Flannery O'Connor with this white knuckle title story that will have you squirming. Not recommended for young ladies who are home alone.
I've read the title story but I'm not sure what other (early) stories of hers I've read. Liked that story, though Joyce Carol Oates' stuff is sometimes so edgy and raw it's like trying to swallow razor blades.
"'The place where you came from ain't there any more, and where you had in mind to go is cancelled out.
This place you are now- inside your daddy's house- is nothing but a cardboard box I can knock down any time.
You know that and always did know it.
You hear me?'"This is a really creepy little story about the duality of the teenaged mind and the vulnerability that comes along with that.
Again, this is a great story about the teenaged mind and how easily it can be taken advantage of.
Oates has me convinced that I’m in the story with her characters, they are standing next to me and I can feel their fear, their irritation and even their sadness.
Through Connie’s description of him, we know something isn’t right and through the flow of dialog we begin to feel scared for Connie who is helpless and vulnerable against this strange man.“Now, what you’re going to do is this: you’re going to come out that door You‘re going to sit up front with mean Ellie’s going to sit in the back, the hell with Ellie, right?
Be nice to me, be sweet like you can because what else is there for a girl like you but to be sweet and pretty and give in? Loosely based off of real life killer Charles Schmid, this book is horrifying. My heart was actually pounding heavier than normal while reading this. I've never read any of Oates work before this, but my god is she good at creating tension. Sweat producing tension.The repetition used to create Arnold Friends menace actually gave me goosebumps, and Ellie, sat motionless and
Be nice to me, be sweet like you can because what else is there for a girl like you but to be sweet and pretty and give in?
Loosely based off of real life killer Charles Schmid, this book is horrifying.
My heart was actually pounding heavier than normal while reading this.
I've never read any of Oates work before this, but my god is she good at creating tension.
Sweat producing tension.The repetition used to create Arnold Friends menace actually gave me goosebumps, and Ellie, sat motionless and quiet in the car, is really, truly unsettling.
Viaggio negli inferiMolti racconti presi singolarmente sono molto belli.
in cui una ragazza dell'upper class finita in carcere racconta la propria vita allucinata dalla quale ha trovato la forza di uscire dopo un pestaggio nei bagni della prigione, oppure a Desideri esauditi, in cui si racconta di una coppia di intellettuali nella quale si introduce una studentessa sedicenne, che viene fatta passare per babysitter, rimane incinta, viene sposata.
L'ex moglie, poetessa affermata, si suicida, assurgendo all'empireo personale dell'ex marito che sempre ne loderà la grandezza d'animo: intanto l'ex sedicenne si abbrutisce non poco allevando i figli della coppia precedente, non finisce gli studi, è la vera sconfitta.
I saw "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?" on a list of best short stories and sought it out. It is a creepy, tense story about a teenage girl who skips a family outing to stay home alone, but she gets an unexpected visitor. The story gave me chills.
No stars. This is literally my least favorite thing I've read in my entire life. It gave me 300000 nightmares. I might consider that a good thing, except the story is just an allegory about virginal purity. The brilliant symbolism here? Her house is a vagina. Her house. Is a vagina. HE is a metaphor for a dick. Do you know how fucked up this story is? Also, terrifying me about the possibility of rape? Not something that deserves any stars whatsoever. God, I feel gross even talking about this. Never ever recommended.
This creeped me and freaked me out like no other story did for a long time.I didn't expect this, it seems to be about a pedophilic (?) man, and a self-absorbed teenager who gets herself into trouble, with no way out. I didn't expect this story or how creepy it was, but that man is really terrifying and the way he threatens her is just bad.It definitely made me feel terrified and uncomfortable.
This review is dedicated entirely to the title story.
The story is grotesque and captivating in that so much of what happens or how it happens is never actually mentioned, which is definitely engaging.
The reader is therefore pushed into making their own judgments, allowing only their imagination to limit final assessments regarding the events in the story.
Though which century this story takes place in is quite clear, the generalities utilized forbid the reader from narrowing in on anything too specific for a setting; this undeniably contributes to the overall aura of vulnerability to danger, like the situation the girl was in.
Oh boy this was creepy. I love this woman, but don't read her if you're struggling with any emotions unless you want them to get deeper and blacker. Her prose will consume you.
มีความเหมือนอยูในยุค คดีของชารลส แมนสัน ชวง 1960s บทสนทนาทีชวนประหลาด ชวงแรกทีเหมือนจะโรแมนติกจีบหญิง ลอลวงหญิงสาวใหออกมาจากบานแตสุดทายแลว ใครเลยจะรูวาเมือเธอตัดสินใจกาวออกจากบานไป เธอจะไดพบโลกอันสดใสสวยงาม หรือนรกบนดินกันแนเหตุการณแบบนีวัยรุนอเมริกันอานกคงเขาถึงไดงายกวา เพราะเปนภัยแฝงเรืองใกลตัวกับคนทีชอบฟังเพลง แนวโฟลกปอป
มีความเหมือนอยู่ในยุค คดีของชาร์ลส์ แมนสัน ช่วง 1960s บทสนทนาที่ชวนประหลาด ช่วงแรกที่เหมือนจะโรแมนติกจีบหญิง ล่อลวงหญิงสาวให้ออกมาจากบ้านแต่สุดท้ายแล้ว ใครเลยจะรู้ว่าเมื่อเธอตัดสินใจก้าวออกจากบ้านไป เธอจะได้พบโลกอันสดใสสวยงาม หรือนรกบนดินกันแน่เหตุการณ์แบบนี้วัยรุ่นอเมริกันอ่านก็คงเข้าถึงได้ง่ายกว่า เพราะเป็นภัยแฝงเรื่องใกล้ตัวกับคนที่ชอบฟังเพลง แนวโฟล์กป็อป
Based on a true story, a pied piper invites a young teen on a vehicular date. He spends time coaxing the young girl out of her home, promising love and bliss behind sinister eyes.I knew of the true story before reading this tale. Both scare the hell out of me. Not for the faint of heart, this story serves a cautionary tale about placing trust on strangers, even if they wear tight leather jeans and woos like no other. 5/5
I picked this up at the library, totally forgetting that I had read it years ago 'til I started to read. I didn't much like this book, I just don't care for her stories & I can't tell you why. They are well written but after reading anything from this author I feel depressed & like my soul is grubby. Bleh says I.
Joyce Carol Oates scared me with 20 pages. Damn that was good writing.
I wonder who published this ........
And we see these move from being trapped in small-town America to being trapped in the academy, the small-town academy.And then just like that it's over and there's some boring ass  Plot Against America bullshit to end things with.I'm scared of her, this protagonist.
She's inscrutable and selfish and self-destructive, and if she wants me she can have me, and yes, I can destroy her back, but I can't save her and I can't escape her.
That author picture is like the most frightening thing.
This story has stuck with me because Connie's character resonates so well with my teenage self.
Feeling like you live a dual-life for self-presentation, vanity, a harsh desire for recklessness, yet hesitancy to leave the security of family..
A fable-like story warning to be careful what you wish for.
Perhaps most disturbingly, the story is based off a real murderer who got to know everything about each of his victims after pretending to be a high school kid...
wearing makeup and imitating Elvis, he lured self-conscious girls into his trap through his artifice.
Maybe a little silly, but I liked it.
Excellent collection; the title story was beautifully and creepily filmed as "Smooth Talk" with Laura Dern. Oates excels at bringing out the macabre in every day life, e.g. what happens when a 15-year-old girl. as Roger Ebert notes, "flirts in the wrong places." This book, and especially this story, will resonate with those who have had a few close encounters of the wrong kind in our teen years. The menacing stranger in the story was loosely based on a real character, Charles Schmid, "The Pied Piper of Tucson."
Masterful writing. She subtly builds the tension in the story in such a way that you don't realize your nerves are on edge until the end of the story. Fantastic story telling. That the story is based on real events adds a extra dimension of creepiness. Connie could be anyone's 15 year old daughter. This story is a really poignant social commentary about the impact of hyper-sexualized popular film and music on on adolescent children's perceptions about sex and love.
Whilst this is very short it is also very effective. The tension Joyce instils is amazing and the growing unease stays with you at lot longer than it takes to read the story. The writing is brilliant and I cannot fault it!This is the first time I've read anything by Joyce Carol Oates and I will definitely be checking out her other works.
"Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been" may be my favorite short story of all time. I remember being stunned by its darker themes and originality when I first read it in college. I don't know what gave rise to the idea for the story in Oates's mind, but the deeper feelings behind it - and my own interpretions - have stayed with me many years down the road.
This was a surprising like for me. I liked the story lines of most the stories, and they are easy to read and have a lot of 'thinking' and depth to the plots.I had to read this for a class, and thought I would end up skimming this. It was definitely enjoyable.
I sure do not want Arnold Friend as my friend.
The pacing of this short story is phenomenal...and disturbing. Quite haunting.
It has twenty-five selected stories from her six collected works of those decades at the beginning of her writing career.1963:  By the North Gate 1966:  Upon the Sweeping Flood 1970:  The Wheel of Love 1972:  Marriages and Infidelities 1974:  The Goddess and Other Women 1977:  Night-Side There are also two uncollected works written during that time period and an interesting four page Afterword by the author written at the time this book was published in 1993.You have to be prepared for the odd in reading Joyce Carol Oates.
Let’s give JCO the last word on the couple of decades of short stories that are included in this memorable book.
So let’s concentrate more on the character Connie the beautiful, attractive young girl who wants to try everything and know everything about boys/girls world.
As 15 years old girl this is just Normal, and being raped by a guy who have the demon way of attracting girls is also not normal but it happens, but the thing is that this whole situation is kind of familiar to us, I mean beautiful girl, have an interest in boys world and because of her foolishness she was the victim of irresponsible behavior.
It took a couple re-reads of the short story to understand what was going on.
This story was intriguing, and definitely worth the read.
It is short enough to read in one sitting, although it is packed full of events.
I loved the complexity of the story, and how more and more about the characters was revealed through their actions rather than through being told.The ending of the story was a bit vague, so it is hard to know exactly what happens.
It is left more open ended, which just adds to the mystery and intrigue of the story.
I only even remotely liked the last one, and it wasn't awful, but i'm just not feeling it with Oates.I have short story issues in general (actually trying to finish one collection as we speak to get if off my currently-reading and its late ass the fuck back to the library) and when they're as dry, lazy and falsely 'deep' as Oates' are, I just can't do it.I hate to DNF twice in one year.
