https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/741618.Six_Characters_in_Search_of_an_Author
6شخصيات تبحث عن مؤلفالمسرحية الأشهر لبيراندلو والتي يذكرها الجميع من كتاب عبد الناصر فلسفة الثورةثم 
They begin to perform the scene between The Stepdaughter and The Father in Madame Pace's shop, which the Director decides to call Scene I.
After The Father and The Stepdaughter act half of the scene, The Director stops them so that The Actors may perform what they have just done.
The Father begins another argument with The Director over the realism of The Actors compared to The Characters themselves.
The Director allows The Characters to perform the rest of the scene and decides to have the rehearsals later.
They don't need to bow to the power of an author anymore to satisfy their need for visibility - all that is required is an increasing number of other characters who are willing to admire the Facebook picture of a morning latte in exchange for a like on the latest holiday snapshot.The absurdity of our reality is the topic of Pirandello's philosophical play, and he shows the tragic comedy of life as a stage where human beings fight for visibility, taking their ridiculous small matters as seriously as can be, always conscious of the reaction of viewers:"What is the stage?
They need this badly, so that they can live where they are born to live -- on the stage, and away from this off-stage world of ordinary people, without 'drama' inborn in them.
They stumble on a stage and almost manages to get a director to present their story too.
But in the end their play does not manage to get presented -- because how can their story be truly represented without the 'missing' author?
How can you innovate or derive real meaning in the absence of the divine author?This intricate play needs to be seen on-stage.
Recently, casually, a friend mentioned who he thinks I am.
It was not at all who I think I am!
Is there anyone less qualified to interpret me than me?Pirandello's absurdist 1921 play is about how we create our own realities: how each of us choose to play a character, to such an extent that we sometimes sit outside ourselves, watching our characters act out their scenes.
And some part of us sits outside that, watching the watcher, and who knows who lives at the bottom of it all?
A character under that thinks it's a little show-offy.
Though the director is not an author, he is captivated enough by their story to believe he could fulfill their needs by having his actors put on a production.
As they proceed with their attempts at acting out their history, the family reveals such lurid, melodramatic, and tragic elements to their story, the director comes to doubt whether it’s believable and believes he has wasted a whole day of rehearsal.The play was pretty zany with the cynical director trying to juggle so many balls, the actors getting upstaged, and the sordid pathos of the extremely dysfunctional family leaping off the page through their strident efforts to become realized through a stage performance.

“You expect me to believe this garbage and let my actors perform your absurdity".“Yes”, I affirm, “The settings should be realistic and the truth should be told in its unaltered form.”“I am an unrealized character sir”, I humbly say, “I need you to finish my story and bring it to life”.The stage manager now enraged walks away hurling obscenities and muttering, “Acting is our business here.
Pirandello stresses on the theatre being an illusion of reality where actors masquerade real emotions through rehearsals and mutability.A brilliant existentialism perception of individuals being characters all through their life portraying roles that they're born into and the normality of emotions attached to their specific roles.
تطالب مخرج ما بأن يبحث لها عن مؤلف ليكتب قصتها !فلقد وُجدت الشخصيات دون أن يكتبهم أحد ..
!! وهم الأن في حاجة لمؤلف يُكمل كتابة قصتهم ويُنهي مأساتهم فهم 6 شخصيات من عائلة واحدة ..
!فلقد وجدت هذه الشخصيات الست في الواقع دون أن يكتبهم مؤلف ، ولكي يستمروا في الحياة لابد لهم من مؤلف ليكتب قصتهم ويصيغها في مسرحية ، وإلا لن يظهروا علي المسرح ولن يعرف أحد قصتهم !طبعا الفكرة في حد ذاتها غريبة ، وهي فلسفية للغاية ، وتتيح لك التفكير في فكرة تحديد المصير ..
بغض النظر عن الإجابة...تم تحديث الريفيو الأن وإضافة الصور
یک نمایشنامه بی نظیر، که حول یه موضوع مشخص نمی چرخه ولی درون مایه اصلیش پوچی دنیا و اون چیزیه که ما 
Stop, wait! It was the Six Characters in Search of an Author! Well, there actually is a connection. Milo Manara was the reason I first got acquainted with Luigi Pirandello.Now that I have fought my way through the play a few song lines pops up in my head."Wooords doooont come eeeasy tooo meee …" & "Whats the fuzz, tell me what is happening?"I can easily see the chocking effect it had when first performed, even I dont quite get that the good people of Milan should be so much more open-minded
Milo Manara was the reason I first got acquainted with Luigi Pirandello.Now that I have fought my way through the play a few song lines pops up in my head."Wooords doooon´t come eeeasy tooo meee …" & "What´s the fuzz, tell me what is happening?"I can easily see the chocking effect it had when first performed, even I don´t quite get that the good people of Milan should be so much more open-minded than the citizens of Rome.
It is an interesting take on family tragedies from a man who was alienated from his own family in so many ways that it is hard not to call out to Freud to clear things up.
مضمون نمایشنامه، فرم آن و موضوعی که این شش شخصیت سعی در نشان دادنش دارند، اصالت واقعیت است. تأکید پدر و نادختری به خصوص بر این مسئله است که آنها شخصیتهای واقعی هستند و آنچه بازیگران ایفا میکنند کپی نادرست و ناقصی از واقعیت اصلی است. این شخصیتها که برساختهی تخیّل نویسندهشان هستند آنچنان در درام شخصیتی خود غرق شدهاند که بازیگران حرفهای تئاتر را به تماشای خود وادار میکنند. اینجا دیگر متنی وجود ندارد. مؤلفی در کار نیست چرا که شخصیتها بعد از ساخته شدن، به زندگیشان ادامه میدهند حتی اگر مؤلف مُرده باشد
تأکید پدر و نادختری به خصوص بر این مسئله است که آن‌ها شخصیت‌های واقعی هستند و آن‌چه بازیگران ایفا می‌کنند کپی نادرست و ناقصی از واقعیت اصلی است.
این شخصیت‌ها که برساخته‌ی تخیّل نویسنده‌شان هستند آن‌چنان در درام شخصیتی خود غرق شده‌اند که بازیگران حرفه‌ای تئاتر را به تماشای خود وادار می‌کنند.
مؤلفی در کار نیست چرا که شخصیت‌ها بعد از ساخته شدن، به زندگی‌شان ادامه می‌دهند حتی اگر مؤلف مُرده باشد.
اما به نظر می‌رسد که مخاطب در جستجوی واقعیت نیست.
مهم نیست واقعیت چه بوده باشد اگر با شگفت‌زدگی کم‌تری همراه باشد، در این‌صورت مخاطب واقعیت دست‌کاری شده را ترجیح می‌دهد.
قشنگ بود خوشم اومد مبحثش جديد و جالب بود چيز تازه اي را مي گفت و حتي وقتي به اين اشاره مي كرد كه شما ادماي واقعي متغيريد ولي ما هميشه يك چيز ثابتيم .
شماها مي ميريد و نابود مي شيد ولي ما تو ذهن خواننده ها طي سال ها جاويديم .پيراندلو نويسنده ايتاليايي هست كه توي يك خانواده مرفه سيسيلي به دنيا مي ياد .
เปนนิยายเลมเลกทีมีภาษาทางศิลปะเเละปรัชญาเเฝงไวเบืองหลังมากเหลือเกิน เขาใจบางไมเขาใจบาง เหมือนเลเวลเรายังไมพอจะไปตีบอสไดยังไงยังงัน คิดวาเมือเวลาผานไปเเละเกบเลเวลทางศิลปะเเละปรัชญามากกวานีจะมาอานใหม ถามองผานในเรืองความหนักของเนือหาเเลว เลมนีกเปิดโลกกับมุมมองอะไรหลายอยางไดดีทีเดียว (เปิดโลกของเราดวยทำใหเราไมเขาใจในสิงทีถูกสือออกมานีเเหละครับ)
เป็นนิยายเล่มเล็กที่มีภาษาทางศิลปะเเละปรัชญาเเฝงไว้เบื้องหลังมากเหลือเกิน เข้าใจบ้างไม่เข้าใจบ้าง เหมือนเลเวลเรายังไม่พอจะไปตีบอสได้ยังไงยังงั้น คิดว่าเมื่อเวลาผ่านไปเเละเก็บเลเวลทางศิลปะเเละปรัชญามากกว่านี้จะมาอ่านใหม่ ถ้ามองผ่านในเรื่องความหนักของเนื้อหาเเล้ว เล่มนี่ก็เปิดโลกกับมุมมองอะไรหลายอย่างได้ดีทีเดียว (เปิดโลกของเราด้วยทำให้เราไม่เข้าใจในสิ่งที่ถูกสื่อออกมานี่เเหละครับ)
THE FATHER: [With dignity but not offended] A character, sir, may always ask a man who he is.
This is one of the most "meta" plays I've ever read, and that's saying something considering the oddball pieces of drama I've come across before.
However, Six Characters manages to be unorthodox without being too weird; Pirandello's witty comments on the working of the theater couldn't be expressed in a better or more entertaining way.
From there, things spiral into confusion and frustration among the characters and the actors that attempt to portray them.
Really, if there's any way you want to go "meta" in any work, take some tips from Pirandello.
Read this. That’s the only review I can write. Whether you’re a writer or a reader, read this.
Θείο δράμα :p https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2018/...
هرکدوم از ما بسته به تعداد موجودات درونی مون چند نفریم .. چند نفر... با بعضی ها این ادمیم ... با بعضی دیگه یه ادم کاملا دیگه ...در همه ی مواقع هم دچار این توهم ایم که برای همه یک جور واحد ایم...
Ed io ho aspettato anni prima di cedere e leggerlo.Dopo aver letto "L'uomo che guardava passare i treni", non ho più resistito ed ho letto questa opera.
È un solo atto ma in realtà potrebbero essere tre atti (una caduta per sbaglio del sipario aiuta Pirandello).In seconda approssimazione è un'opera teatrale che parla della vita, mettendo in scena tutti noi.Mi sono appena ripassato su Wikipedia tutte le tematiche pirandelliane (Siamo persone e personaggi?
Togliamoci queste maschere!), quindi non ho voglia di fare il saccente e ripetere a memoria.Se volete potete trovare le tematiche di Pirandello nella mia recensione del "giallo" di Simenon.Come Pirandello, anch'io sto giocando con voi.
این که این شخصیت ها خلق شده ان، درام رو توی خودشون دارن اما بستری نیست که اون رو اجرا کنن یا واقعیتش رو بازی کنن و وقتی این بستر پیدا می شه و اون ها هر کدوم از زاویه ی دید خودشون اون رو ارائه می کنن، روایت زنده می شه و دیگه خیال نیست، قصه نیست و جون داره و یک جایی هم به پایان می رسه.در نگاهی دیگه هم می شه انتقادهایی رو که پیراندلو به تئاتر عصر خودش و نمایشنامه نویس ها و مخاطب مطرح می کنه یا حتی انتقادهای اجتماعی ای که بیان می کنه.
وهذه القصة هي للشاعر الإيطالي الكبير (( لويدجي بيراندلو ))..• وكتب عبد الناصر حين تذكر هذه القصة: "إن ظروف التاريخ مليئة بالأبطال الذين صنعوا لأنفسهم أدوار بطولة مجيدة قاموا بها في ظروف حاسمة على مسرحه.إن ظروف التاريخ أيضاً مليئة بأدوار البطولة المجيدة التي لم تجد بعد الأبطال الذين يقومون بها على مسرحه، ولست أدري لماذا يخيل لي دائماً إن في هذه المنطقة التي نعيش فيها دوراً هاماً على وجهه يبحث عن البطل الذي يقوم به، ثم لست أدري لماذا يخيل لي إن هذا الدور الذي أرهقه التجوال في المنطقة الواسعة الممتدة في كل مكان حولنا، قد أستقر به المطاف متعباً منهوك القوى على حدود بلادنا يشير إلينا أن نتحرك، وأن ننهض بالدور ونرتدي ملابسه فإن أحد غيرنا لا يستطيع القيام به."• غريب هو تركيب هذه المسرحية ..
I like Pirandello because his works wrestle with the same questions in different ways and Six Characters in Search of an Author is probably the best exploration of the questions that he's most concerned with.
It makes the audience question the nature of theatre and their place as people getting enjoyment from the suffering of others, even if those others are imaginary characters.
On a larger level, it asks how the act of observation changes reality and shows how subjective people's conception of truth can be.
I've read a number of Pirandello's other plays and, although they don't have the metatheatrical aspect that his masterpiece does, they're just as concerned with subjectivity and truth.
They enter a rehearsal studio, where a play is unfolding and ask the Director to become their author.
' So one may also be born a character in a play.' Act I begins with what the characters have to share.
And so, the characters begin to give their version of the story and in it we can observe their justifications for such acts.
In Act II, the Director asks his studio actors to play the parts of the 6 characters, but the characters do not recognize themselves in the actors.
They point out the little facts that are missed when the Director tries to put their story on stage.
شش شخصيت در جستجوي نويسنده نمايشنامه گويا كمدي لوييجي پيراندلوست.
نه تنها برام جالب نيست و چيزي بهم منتقل نميكنه بلكه بنظرم لوس بازي هم مياد.
من ترجمه انگليسي اين نمايشنامه رو خوندم، شايد بخاطر همينه كه متوجه كمدي بودنش نشدم.
اصلا تعجب كردم كه كمدي دونسته ميشه.
متوجهم كه سعي كرده يكم حرفهاي جدي بزنه و از تمايز حقيقت و واقعيت بگه و بقول خودش فلسفه بورزه، ولي اينها در ديالوگ مطرح ميشند، خيلي جزئي و بيروني اند و اينجوري نيست كه كليت اثر بتونه چنين معناهايي رو منتقل كنه.
ولي بهرحال آشغال محض هم نيست.
Six characters walk into a theater and ask for an author to 'dramatize' their story.
What starts as an absurd interruption to an ongoing rehearsal, enters the realm of bizarre when the characters demand their story be played as they are characters and cannot play it themselves.
A fairly complex narrative and a troublesome shifting of perspectives, the play is better seen than read.Pirandello extends the philosophical argument of "everyone wears masks" by giving life to "fictional" characters.
We live in a world where people have become characters on YouTube, creating new content and changing the narrative of interaction.
It is difficult, in the end, to separate fiction from reality.
E come possiamo intenderci, signore, se nelle parole ch'io dico metto il senso e il valore delle cose come sono dentro di me; mentre chi le ascolta, inevitabilmente le assume col senso e col valore che hanno per sè, del mondo com'egli l'ha dentro?
Crediamo d'intenderci; non c'intendiamo mai!Esiste la commedia degli equivoci, poi esiste l'equivoco della commedia.
O del teatro in senso lato.
O se vogliamo estendere il teatro a metafora della vita, esiste l'equivoco della stessa nel quale ognuno è imprigionato nel suo ruolo che egli solo può comprendere ma mai rappresentare (comunicare agli altri) veramente.

Characteristically Tall “Oh sir, you know well that life is full of infinite absurdities, which, strangely enough, do not even need to appear plausible, since they are true.”Absurdity? Lunacy? Whimsicality? Perhaps all this and well, all this not!This delightful play has a rather unique premise. A set of theatre actors are about to rehearse a play when six “characters” come unannounced and demand that their story be told. They express their utter condescension on being orphaned by their “Author
A set of theatre actors are about to rehearse a play when six “characters” come unannounced and demand that their story be told.
They express their utter condescension on being orphaned by their “Author” before granting completeness to them and request rebirth by allowing them to play their story to an audience through the theatre.
Donning the hat of the “Author”-cum-“Manager” then, he goes about decoding these characters’ sob story and converting them into theatre-worthy form.
The other two characters, The Boy and The Child, although mute spectators, are important to the play like the lifeless props that complete a scene, if not define it.
The Father: Oh, Sir, you know well that life is full of infinite absurdities, which, strangely enough, do not even need to appear plausible, since they are true.
Very rarely did I come across a statement uttered by one of the "characters" that did not "force" me, as it were, to slow down the pace of my reading -even bringing it to a half sometimes- and think about the depth that lies behind the "simple facade" of the work.Being a big fan of theater, I would always imagine, especially at a younger age, the entire world as being one huge stage upon which people would put on scenes daily and around the clock.
I recommend you read this play if you are a fan of literature, theater, philosophy and/or the numerous existentialist questions it poses.
