https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1661957.Wake
I picked this one up because the premise sounded so intriguing, but ultimately I thought it was pretty disappointing.
The third-person present tense narration really got on my nerves after a while, and the story was told so choppily that I found it hard to really get involved.
Um, what?), and the fact that her dreams and why they happen is never really explained, beyond us being told that Janie reads a few dream books from the local library that supposedly solve everything - talk about unsatisfying.
Apparently there's a sequel, and maybe it explains more, but I don't think I'll be reading it.
3.5 starsA surprisingly good YA book, a perfect mix of romance, paranormal, and mystery.
The writing style is peculiar and won't be everyone's cup of tea.
But once you get over the present tense 3rd person narration and choppiness, you realize this style actually makes the book more intense and fast moving.
The love story is equally powerful and touching and certainly differs from your standard paranormal romance formula.
Lastly, kudos to Lisa McMann for skillfully weaving dream-catching into a very fascinating story.
After the 3rd reading it is, understandably, not as exciting, but still stands out as a fresh and unique work of YA fiction and retains its affecting power.
I do not understand this book.
I do not understand the writing style.
I do not understand the plot.
And I sure as hell do not understand the appeal.
Come to think of it, it was reminiscent of a dream, the foggy kind you forget immediately upon waking.
McMann tried to make them deep with backstories that just made me go, “huh?”And the plot.
Props for McMann for being original, I guess, but at least a formulaic plot is comprehensible.
Seriously, all it did was confuse me, and if the book wasn’t so quick to read, I wouldn’t have made it through.
Janie gets sucked into other people’s dreams.
Even if the dreamers ask for her help, she can’t manage to do anything.Janie’s life has been hindered by this "curse." She found out early that sleepovers weren’t good for her.
She lives in isolation in order to avoid being stuck in someone’s dream.A new addition to her life is Cabel.
She has several interactions with him throughout the book, but their lives become intertwined when she has to let him know about her problem while they are on a school trip together and she is stuck on a bus for several hours with her napping classmates being sucked into one dream after another the whole way.
Nor is than any great climatic action to this story.It is a gradual growing of a girl and a boy as they learn to deal with an unusual psychic ability together and face their nightmares.There isn't much to say about this book.
There isn't much plot or pacing to speak of though it doesn't drag on.
It's hard for this book to drag on because there simply isn't much of it.
In literature, we like our men obsessive.
He's reasonable, lovable, and flawed.Over all, I love this story though it's not one I'd pick up to read over and over again.
It's a nice story to have read and enjoyed.
I've read countless YA novels in this past year, but Wake is by far my favorite.
In her review, Tatiana called McMann's writing style flawless, and I must admit I was very intrigued by her choice of words at the time.
Wake has a steady rhythm that you can almost feel in your bones while reading.
I adore its simplicity and unpretentiousness.Lisa McMann's writing is every linguist's dream.
Wake is only about 200 pages long, but that’s because there are no catalysts in it.
There isn’t a single word that dilutes the core.
The characters were underdeveloped and there wasn't even a plot… it was just bad.
Pros:Uh… it’s a really cool plot idea?
I enjoyed the incorporation of lucid dreaming.
The character of Janie seemed interesting before I realized she was never expanded upon?
Then broken into itty chapters and spliced together paragraphs.None of the characters were ever expanded upon.
Just Janie walking through random dreams and becoming more and more upset by them.
They don’t even really like or know each other, but she walks in his dream one time and he buys her a snickers and suddenly they're in love…?
THE REVIEWWhy this book?It seemed interesting What I thoughtWTF did I just read this book is freakin weird!!! It's like a sequence of dreams with a little plot that's it!! The only reason I finished it was because I was curious to see if it changed. It so didn't and i'm so not reading the sequel, yeah it's so bad i'm not even giving it a chance.
First read in February of 2009, Wake is one of those rare gems that I keep coming back to.
In spite of the later ruin of the series, truly Gone was atrocious, Wake still possesses some element of reading magic for me.
I suppose it doesn’t hurt that it only takes two hours to read either.
Quick read status or no, Wake can boast of containing not one, but two fantastically imperfect characters, a unique and heart breaking supernatural element, and a mystery that never dulls, even after multiple re-reads.
I would recommend Wake to anyone, just stop the series after Fade.
Before I start this one, just know that I LIKED IT.
I don't love it as much as many of my Goodreads friends but this could be because I started out listening to this and finished the last 30-40 pages in book form.
I'm fairly sure the writing style just wasn't doing it for me.You know when you are trying to write a paper for school and you are a couple pages short?
That's what this book felt like--a substandard research paper.
But Wake does create something different: a mix between the fantastic-premise-meets-teen set-up of books like Twilight, and plot devices that will gather fans of Sixth Sense and Ghost Whisperer.
However critical you want to be, there is no getting around that where Wake improves over similar books is in passing on 7/8ths of the over-extended romantic drama that bogs its better known predecessors down.
You’re left with a lean, enjoyable, well-plotted drama, and a main character, Janie, who maintains a firmer grip on herself and her friendships.A pleasant surprise with this novel was its set-up for a sequel: not in the possibility, which seems nearly inevitable for YA fiction, but in the route taken to it, preparing the reader for a different sort of series.
I just didn't like the abrupt sentence structure and simplistic thought process of the characters.
Janie is seventeen and has been dealing with getting into other people's dreams for years.
Oh, and then the boy Cabel comes along.
He's trouble (maybe) and Janie does the typical teenage angst thing by liking him, getting mad at him, and then ignoring him.
Come on, girl--that is so 1980's teen lit!
So to me, there's no "lyrical" going on--and I won't read the sequel.
I think this will be popular with the lower level readers of my high school who don't want to think much as they read.
I wasn't overwhelmed with wonder in the first chapter but I noticed that the book quickly got better and better.What I couldn't get used to and still find really strange when I think back about it, is the fact that the novel is written in 3rd person present tense narrative.
There were a number of times whilst I was reading the novel where it would say "she did this" or "she did that" and I'd be thinking "who's she?
For Janie Hannagan, though, dreams are her worst nightmares.
Janie is able to see the ordinary dreams, from falling to drowning to going to work without wearing any pants.
As Janie tries to sort out not only his dreams but her own feelings for Cable, she learns that the only way to survive her reactions towards other people's dreams is to control them -- and to help the people complete the tasks that they so desperately want to accomplish.
Every now and then a novel gets published and becomes a work of art that we all will long remember.
I liked the idea behind the story okay, but there were more F words in this YA book than any of the adult novels I've read. It just wasn't necessary. This book contained a lot of content that just wasn't appropriate for teen readers. I'm also not a huge fan of the writing format. I'm not sure if it wasn't just to cover up the fact that maybe the writer isn't all that good at writing.
This book went from random, confusing and pointless to freaking epic and intriguing, just to end up as a huge predictable cliche that 10 year olds could find highly enjoyable.Nothing else to add, your honor.I rest my case.
It's like they only focus on the first few pages of their books.
I've said this before and I'll say it again -- Third Person Narration is For Plot Driven Stories!
Fantasy, Horror, and Science Fiction are typically written in third person because they rely on plot and setting while Contemporary is typically written in first person because it relies on it's characters.
It's not like this book had anything going for it outside of the premise.
Janie isn't a very compelling character.
If anything, that was more interesting than the main plot.Why don't we find out anything about Janie's powers?
Finally picked this book up at Barnes and Noble last night and once I started reading I couldn't put it down. Well, okay, I slept for awhile last night, but I didn't sleep very well, actually, and I had some really odd dreams... Just finished the book. I haven't been that totally consumed by a book, YA or not, in a really long time. Loved it!!Highly recommend this book for anyone who likes fast-paced, well-written, and extremely original young adult fiction.Lisa McMann is definitely a talent to watch! Can't wait to read her next one, FADE.
http://www.writingis.fun/%D0%B1%D0%B4...Добре признавам - началото на историята беше доста нескопосано написано. Но след това всъщност историята става не само интересна, но и с доста голям потенциал за развитие в другите 2 части - довечера започвам 2-рата - четат се за няколко часа - доста отпускащо. :)
This book was a very interesting read. The format was different than usual and I liked that. I enjoyed the surprise with the hero at the end. I can't imagine being stuck with a super power like that one. It would be so hard to deal with. If you're a fan of Insomnia by J.R. Johansson, then check this one out.
And then she meets Campel and realises that not only she can watch his dreams but participate in them.The experience of reading this novel whould be safe to say that can only be compared with a thrilling and scary ride on a VERY fast rollercoaster (and this comes from someone who absolutely LOVES rollercoasters)!
Because what is Jaine's life if not a series of episodes as she jumps from dreams to reality and back?
If I had a problem with this novel I guess it would be the revelations about Campel's life...
Instead I read a book with great characters but had a horrible plot.
What kind of a book has a climax about a girl finding out about a boy's deep secret(when even the secret wasn't even a big deal or that crazy).
I felt like if the book was more lengthy and had a better climax, then it would great.
IN my opinion their relationship went down like this: Janie: hey there Caleb: hey Janie: so hows lifeCaleb: good, how about we become girlfriend and boyfriend Janie: oh ok Over all this book could have been an epic read if only the author put together a better plot and more drama.
I’d heard good things about Wake and I wasn’t disappointed at all!Janie has a gift, although it seems to be more of a curse.
While these are obstacles, I think these are the things that makes Janie the strong character that she is.
But Janie doesn’t even trust Carrie with her secret.
The only person that knows about Janie’s ability is a boy named Cabel.
Janie has been in Cabel’s dreams and she thinks she knows him and even trusts him despite his horrific dreams.
But then Janie finds things out about Cabel that would haunt even her dreams.
Hmmm… this probably shouldn't be a review but "private notes" since it's mostly some semi-random thoughts thrown together.
But I'm trying to be a good scout and leave at least "some" impressions in every review so when I come back a year later, I can remember the reasons for my rating.I can't give this book more than 3 stars because I found it too short.
I don't know about the rest of the trilogy but this definitely reads as part of one.
Other than that, though, it was pretty good.From other reviews I've read, it seems that people either love or hate the writing's style without much middle ground.
This would technically get 4.5 stars...I am bouncing back and forth between giving it five.....
oh man, feel the presure....
This book was so good.
It was devoured in 1 day, 1 sitting at that.Janie is a dream hopper, not her own, but everyone else's.
No explanation, no rhyme or reason, she just is.
It is beginning to take over her life and frigthen her...
but, she realizes that she can help the dreamer.
I don't know what to say without giving away too many details, but w-o-w!I am super stoaked to read "Fade".
Gotta go dig through my book box NOW!
Un volumen que se lee enseguida y que consigue engancharte de forma inmediata.Desde luego cuenta con una trama original, innovadora y diferente, que despierta curiosidad.
¿Quién no ha querido saber alguna vez lo que sueñan los demás?, el mundo de los sueños es bastante desconocido, pero con Janie descubriremos que los sueños pueden llegar a ser terribles.Una de las peores cosas de la novela es la narración.
Escrito en forma de diario con frases cortas y sin llegar a profundizar en los diálogos, los personajes, ni sus sentimientos, explicándolo todo de forma superficial.
Tampoco cuenta con descripciones de los personajes ni de los paisajes, quizás en esto se explayé un poco más con los sueños.
I found this book at Barnes and Noble months before it was supposed to be published!!
if they do, then why wait for the publishing day?
so i advertised WAKE at my school on the publishing day saying, "WAKE by Lisa McMann is out!
I've been talking to her for a few months and it seems like this book is going to do real well." As you may have guessed I ran out that day to get my copy of the book.
I made sure to read the book mostly at school for more publicity.
This book was surprisingly intriguing.
I didn't expect some of the events that happened.
I definitely think it is worth a read.
There may be some parts where it might either surprise you or make you want to abandon it.
I almost got rid of it because I was no longer intrigued, but once I started to read it again it was starting to get interesting.
You might think this would be an awful book but honestly, I want to read the next one I might or I might not.
If you're interested in a unique fantasy book I would honestly suggest this book!
This dystopian novel has been on my TBR for as long as I can remember.I've been in a massive reading
Couple that with the dreamer potentially realizing Janie is there and has seen some subconsious desire, thought or random dream and the ability soon begins to take a toll.
And that doesn't even cover the disturbing dream she witnesses for her friend and potential new boyfriend Caleb.With "Wake," Lisa McCann weaves a fascinating story that draws the readers into Janie's plight slowly, in an almost dream-like fashion.
It makes an effective tool for readers to know if they are in the dream world with Janie or not (though the book does help by having both worlds appear in different typefaces, as well).
