https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1805554.Time_And_The_Conways
The first play I've ever liked more when I read it than when I saw it performed.
With two intermissions and without the freedom to read quickly over the boring charade game in the first act, it dragged on a bit too much.
The third act is quite enjoyable because we have just seen where each of the characters will (or might?--the play is ambiguous here) end up, and we are therefore keyed in on lines that would otherwise seem trivial and mundane.
If nothing else, the innovative structure and the comment the play makes about time makes it a worthwhile read.
The tragic death of one young girl, Carol, who is an angel (and JB Priestly succeeds brilliantly in representing in Carol a truly good person, an angel from God, with no oppressive piety no prigishness to her at all) who is sunshine and goodness and whose unfortuitous departure from life signifies disaster for the fortunes of her family, spiritual and material.
We should cherish the Carols of this world, for such persons do exist and they do not clamour for fame like our wretched polticians and preachers and profiteers of growth exploitation and destruction.
One girl died too young in this play.
I like how the didacticism (the "Christmas Carol" message of change your life before it's too late) is subdued by the ambiguity of the ending. I also enjoyed how the "rule" of chronological time was broken - also breaking away from the somber reality of the second act.
I've read a few plays for college and I think this is the one I enjoyed the most so far. I liked how the author played with the concept of time, especially the future, and it kept me thinking, can we really change our future or it's already written?
Very well-written but kind of depressing.
The imminent Broadway revival of this - along with earlier enjoyable readings of Priestley's 'An Inspector Calls' and 'Dangerous Corner' - impelled me to pick this up.
I thought perhaps the figure of Mrs. Conway (originated by Dame Sybil Thorndyke and to be embodied in the current production by Elizabeth McGovern) might provide one of those deliciously camp diva roles - but she is offstage more than on, and doesn't seem to do much with her stage time anyway.
This play consists of three acts, from which the second is the most enjoyable one, whilst the others (apart from the finale) are rather uninteresting and had too much filler for my taste.
These two acts describe the time when The Conways used to be happy and their goals in life were still a dream for them.The conversation between Alan and Kay was, in my opinion, the peak of this play.
There is a good use of a non-linear time progression, and this twist is also the other strong point of the play."Man was made for joy and woe; And when this we rightly know, Thro' the world we safely go."
The first act drags a little, the second is depressing and the third fractious and frustrating.
Despite all that, and in many ways because if it, this is a strong play.
Cleverly put together to give the reader/audience a poignant overview of the disintegration of family happiness through the ripples of society, their own hubris, stray comments, or words left unsaid.
None of the characters are saints, though the younger daughter Carol could have been a catalyst for good, given the chance.
From BBC Radio 4:Classic drama of 'joy and woe' cutting back and forth in time as it follows a Yorkshire family's fortunes.
Next up in our book group’s between-the-wars season is J B Priestley, so we chose a play for a change.
Act 1 takes place in 1919 in a back sitting-room where the Conways are dressing up to perform charades at a 21st birthday party.
Act 2 revisits the room for a fraught family conference on the same birthday in 1937.
Act 3 returns to 1919 as the party winds up.
Great writing: the ten characters came alive even on a solitary read-through.
I look forward to the group read-through before we descend en masse on a local production by a reputedly good am-dram company.
The play works on the level of a universal human tragedy and a powerful portrait of the history of Britain between the Wars. Priestley shows how through a process of complacency and class arrogance, Britain allowed itself to decline and collapse between 1919 and 1937, instead of realizing the availability of immense creative and humanistic potential accessible during the post-war (the Great War) generation. Priestley could clearly see the tide of history leading towards another major European conflict as he has his character Ernest comment in 1937 that they are coming to 'the next war'
This realistic piece tells us about the time. We make a trip in the future and back again. And it's really sad. The life of 40 years aged person is not the same as one he think about when he was a young men.What is the time? Is it kind? Is it cruel? Can we change our future? Do we have an free will or are some acts irreversible for human beings?This piece is very rich of sense. I think it must be read by young people.
Expecting the tight plotting of Priestly's An Inspector Calls and having recently read and not been enthralled by Tracy Letts family drama August: Osage County, I probably didn't give Time and the Conways family drama a fair go of it. A good reminder to me of the importance and unfairness of context.
J.B. Priestley is relatively new to me. I simply bought the book because it was a Penguin. Time and the Conways is knowledgeable when it comes to the use of time. To see the outcome and the seed to which everything falls apart. I wish this play was frequently stage than the overrated ones we watch today. I now have a great admiration for this author.
Enjoyed reading the play after seeing the latest Broadway show starring Elizabeth McGovern, Anna Camp and others. It was a gorgeous set - the transition between 1919 and 1937 was breathtakingly done. For its time, it presented some interesting concepts of time.
I enjoyed reading this play after seeing an excellent TV production from 1985. The first part could have been slightly improved by not having the characters play a very annoying game of charades. Other than that I liked reading this.
This is the first play I've read by Priestley other than An Inspector Calls. In some senses it deals with similar issues, foreshadowing, prediction, second chances and lost opportunities. my one issue is that the 3 acts are a little uneven. Act 1 is slow and a little tedious, Act 3 is good and leaves you not with answers but questions. Act 2 though is blistering and is some of the finest dialogue and storytelling I've read.
As others have pointed out it is its non-linear structure that carries this play. I found it very interesting moving forward in time to see what the characters becanme before going back to the time of Act One to see how, even then, they were sowing the seeds for their future. Apart from this, the goings on of the Conway family didn't really interest me that much.
What begins as a rather frivolous play turns much darker as the the setting shifts to the future. Suddenly the happy-go-luck Conways begin to resemble the cast of August Osage Country. An well crafted exploration of how a life a can be shaped by seemingly small moments.
Exelent! Succeeds in creating one big atmosphere, and slowly creates each one of the characters. No one less important than the other. Crazy theory about time explained as if It was the most common thing in the world. I'm must say, I'm in.
When it comes to theatre, I usually prefer "new writing" but this is one of those ageless, classic plays that will, deservably, be around for ever. TIME AND THE CONWAYS made a big impression on me when I first saw it many years ago and continues to do so. It has certainly stood the test of time!
I really liked this play.
Мудро и саркастично) Учит принимать жизнь какой она есть и, наверное, не планировать ее..?)
Pleasantly surprised, far better than An Inspector Calls
Classic drama of 'joy and woe' cutting back and forth in time as it follows a Yorkshire family's fortunes. Stars Amanda Redman
I'd simply adore this story!!!!!!!!!!
Themes of purpose of life/what we do with our time/decisions and consequences, set over two time periods.
Heartbreakingly performed by the National Theatre.
Downbeat juxtaposition of youthful aspirations and actual achievements, darkened by the shadow (in 1937) of impending world war
