https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31340.Lasher
I've been an avid fan of Anne Rice's books since I was in junior high, since I love her style of writing and of course her gothic themes (vampires, demons, witches).Lasher is the second novel of the Lives of the Mayfair Witches trilogy.
That fatal decision made her descendants to carry the family legacy/curse of having the "obligation" to conceive Lasher's children (other Taltos).In this novel, Rowan Mayfair, the 13th designee of the Mayfair clan (also the most powerful witch, was kidnapped by Lasher, and her suffering was like....between heaven and hell.
The follow-up to The Witching Hour, 1993’s Lasher, continues the masterful world-building of that precious volume while fully standing on its own: it is a cold, horrifying treat filled to the brim with Anne Rice’s signature gothic, sensual overtones.
The daemon that is Lasher — He who has bestowed wealth and punishment upon the Mayfair clan for centuries — wants nothing more than to reproduce, but it has been a challenge.
This a more than worthy follow-up to the first novel in the Mayfair Witches trilogy, and I will soon read the finale.
And then there are other characters that have sexual encounters with Mona, including Randall, an ancient and elderly old Mayfair whom we are supposed to believe was a poor victim in an act of seduction initiated by this precocious thirteen-year-old girl.
I felt like the entire book was just two very long rehashings of the first story with a couple of blanks filled in.
It was almost like re-reading the first book and became quite tedious at times.
I guess it was important to develop the character of Lasher, but I think it could have been done effectively by just adding another chapter or two to the already long first book.
I don't think it is necessary to write about sexual encounters with children - I don't care if they are witches.
I think I would have been more impressed if Lasher treated them with kindness as children therefore encouraging loyalty.
Can't rate this one, since I'm still weirded out I buddy-read it with my father. *ahem* Lots of sex in this one. On to Taltos. ALONE this time!
I love Celtic lore and though I don't know if it is based on an actual lore, Anne Rice makes me believe it is so.The Mayfair family have a lot to deal with but they also discover some truths about their own lineage.
Even when Mona becomes a key characters in the future storyline, even with other Mayfair women paying a steep price, it is Michael and Rowan's love for each other that becomes a shining beacon amidst all the hurt, darkness and power play.Lasher has quite a plan and part of the suspense is; will he succeed or not?
What you get now is the best of Rice: a deliciously perverse image of an infant, Lasher, who grows to sexual maturity within days of his birth and immediately starts copulating with his mother even while she swoons with the pleasure of his suckling.
Of course, it's always nice to read about sex, and Rice's romantic imagination doesn't let her down: Lasher is dark, handsome, sadistic, childlike, and tender.
Indeed, without her reputation, Rice would never have found a publisher for this wretched mess.***Rate this 3 out of 5 by comparing it to The Witching Hour.
I have never read an Anne Rice book before, and quite honestly if Lasher is typical of her output then I am at a loss to understand how she is so popular.
However, I think an adult would be a bit past that though- there's nothing wrong with sex, but the way Anne Rice writes about it come across as a sniggering 12 year old boy going: 'Look everyone- sex!
I even understood the extensive details and character development for its set-up to the series.
In the case of this second book of the series, not so much.
especially when the ghost sounds like a whiny bitch.I've read about 20 of Rice's novels, and though I was smitten with her work in the beginning, there is one pattern with her writing that I have noticed and one which has really turned me off; most of her characters are whiny bitches.
My hatred of this book knows no bounds.
I'm a huge fan of Anne Rice, and loved The Witching Hour along with many of her other books, but for some reason had never gotten around to reading Lasher.
When his back story is finally revealed, it should have been a dramatic moment, because his story is the great mystery that the saga of the Mayfair witches is founded on, but I found myself not caring at all.I wish this was a better book since it has so many great elements, and the writing, as usual for Rice, is beautiful, but because of the poor pacing it was a rather tedious read.
OK.. WEIRD, story line is unlike anything I've ever read. But I loved it! The story was so unusual, had me eager to turn the page. Not for the faint of heart, but entertainment value truly high up on the scale.
My favorite demon next to Captain Howdy. Looking forward to book three.
You know that you have entered a whole new realm, one that is much removed from the characters and love and themes and hopes of The Witching Hour.
Yes, Anne Rice plays with all of these questions and, if you are willing to let go of the wonders that the first book held as truth, you can find joy in the pitch black of this book.
If love was the theme of The Witching Hour then darkness - maybe even hatred and revenge - rules this book.
Readers, you know if you are willing to let someone destroy the characters you came to love so much.
It is book 2 in the Mayfair witches series.
Mayfair women are dying from hemorrhages and a strange genetic anomaly has been found in Rowan and Michael.
Lasher, born from Rowan, is another species altogether and now in the corporeal body, represents an incalcuable threat to the Mayfairs.
Rowan escapes and becomes comatose as her fully-grown Taltos daughter is born.
The Mayfairs declare all-out war on Lasher and try to nurse Rowan back to heatlth.Michael remains entwined in the Mayfair family and learns how he comes by his strange powers.
Michael's ghostly visiting from a long-dead Mayfair reveals the importance of destroying Lasher.
Oh Anne, I wanted to love your Mayfair witches so very much but I just can't.We pick up right where The Witching Hour left us.
Running after Rowan and piecing together an extencive family history from every possible angle.On and on we trudge, listening to Julian then Little Mona even Lasher himself.
I almost shelved this as DNF when reading about Mona.
The story of Lasher and Rowan also had me making ~icky~ faces.
I do love Anne's passion for the South.
That is what keeps me reading.This will be my last visit to the Mayfairs.
Utterly mesmerising from start to finish (to the point that I actually took a day off work just to read it!), and brings yet more depth and complexity to the series than I previously thought possible.The writing is absolutely spellbinding, and never more so than throughout the stories recounted by Julien and Lasher - both two characters whom I had previously thought of as unsympathetic, depraved and sinister, though seductive (when seen through the file on the witches compiled by the Talamasca in the first book).
In my opinion this was the weakest book in the series.
I HATED Lasher, the immortal idiot who never seems to learn, or care, about his mistakes.
And I was still so mad about what Rowan did at the end of the first book that I found it hard to sympathise with what Lasher puts her through (Hard, but not impossible.
Rowan has it ROUGH through most of this book).
Mona is an odd character, fun to read but difficult for me to like since she skates the fine edge between precocious free-spirit and self-entitled sex addict.
The second in the series of Mayfair Witches, this is another solid offering from Gothic Mistress Anne Rice. There are many characters and personalities that make up the charismatic and trouble Mayfair family - sometimes too many to keep them all straight, but each of the family members is fully fleshed out - there are no throw-aways. A chilling, terrifying and at times erotic tale of the lust for revenge, power, and above all - love.
Now talk about writing good and evil; she’s the best.
It is both “Seductive magic…Spellbinding” (San Francisco Chronicle) and “Compelling…Wickedly irresistible” (The Washington Post.) It’s also everything I expect from an Anne Rice read; totally entertaining, plenty of beautiful, divine feminine energy, plenty of sexy devils and thought provoking questions.
Some of the interesting moral and ethical dilemmas, Anne Rice touches on have everything to do with our current political situation of non-separation of church and state.
Is there no difference between God and Devil, good and evil?
Is Allah actually the creator of the harmful and evil, as well as the creator of good and beneficial?
The beginning of this novel left me with some confusion over how much time had passed since the end of The Witching Hour.
Lasher does in fact pickup right were The Witching Hour ends.
This confusion originated because one minor character in the first book was continually referred to as a "little girl"; However in the second book she plays a bigger role and is a teenager.
After the first few chapters it became clear why the initial thoughts were of a little girl in the first book.
It did leave me wanting to continue to the third and final book in the series.
We now get more indepth detail into the spirit known as Lasher.The first book Witching Hour leaves off on christmas day when Michael and Rowan Mayfair gets married.
Lasher is wanting to interbreed between the family of witches so that he can become stronger and become flesh.
In the middle part of the book we finally get a detailed version of what happened on Christmas Day. Rowan is found in a coma and eventually comes out of it and all is well.
There is more that happens in the book but I don't want to spoil it.
I had meant to review this book right after I finished reading it but didn't have a chance to because I've been so busy, and of course I'm already well into the next book Taltos!
I love the Mayfair Witches, and am really excited to get to the next book which will tie The Vampire Chronicles and this series together!!!
Two of my favorite series in one book, this is going to be amazing!!!
I find it pretty amazing that when I take up the series (The Vampire Chronicles) Anne Rice starts writing for it again, I'm very happy about that.
After reading the Witching Hour, I was prepared to be highly let down by this book.
Some sections of the book I found more exciting than others.
Like the Witching Hour, there was several sections of background.
While interesting at times, I feel that some of the description was needlessly long.
This was especially true when it came to Lasher's story, it felt like the background descriptions were so long that when something finally started to happen it was over far too soon.
That being said, I found the plot compelling and exciting, and I can't wait to read the next book in the trilogy.
An incredible masterpiece as always. A stunning story you cannot put down so easily. I loved every single page of this book. It took me into it's own world and locked forever. It's hard to write this review since I just finished reading and my feelings are still fresh. It is incredible talent to create such thrilling story. What else can I say? It made me think of many things in life: life, death, birth, love, hate... It inspired me a lot.
Much better than book one. Still took me like a month to read. I don't know why these books take me forever! I would recommend this series if you have a lot of time on your hands.
After reading Prince Lestat, and learning more about the foundation of the Talamasca, I knew I had to reread Lasher, because it goes deep into the Talamasca as well.
Lasher is an unknown, and because of that, his story is unique, his character as well.
And I think that is why Mona comes, she is like a Rowan of the 21st century, a witch like no one has seen in this family.Overall I enjoyed this book, and I liked to hear more about Lasher, why he was a vengeful spirit, and learn more and more about the family
The most brilliant writing imaginable, each character practically stepped out of the pages.
Anne Rice loves blurring the lines between antagonistic and protagonist characters and I always find this a breath of fresh air.
Although I was hoping Michael would ultimately have the strength (mentally and physically) to follow through with the 'prophecy', I still found Lasher's story sad and profound in his poor religious meanderings.
I look forward to reading 'Taltos' in hopes of discovering more about the Talamasca's ultimate goals, but also to follow the Mayfair witches fate!
Again shifting back and forth from past to present, Lasher tells his own story, Julian tells his, and we meet the enchanting present-day Mona.
While in "The Witching Hour" the method of telling about past events was unique, the historical documents of the Talamasca, in "Lasher" we are told about the past in narrative fashion from the ghost of Julien, as well as Lasher himself.
It was good to get more back-story, although Julien's is more fill-in-the-blank as we know most of that from the first book.What this volume does have over it's predecessor is a much more satisfying ending, one I really didn't see coming, considering the existence of a sequel.
