https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/982865.The_Beatles
Note: This review is an excerpt from a longer review/personal reflection published on my blog, Sounds Delightful.The Beatles, originally published in 1968, is the only ever authorized biography of the band.
Davies wrote the book after spending over a year observing and interviewing the band, as well as talking with their families and friends.
And despite the obvious whitewashing of potentially scandalous material, there are moments of candor that do seem to cut nearer to the truth.On the whole, Davies doesn’t really try to draw a lot of conclusions about the Beatles.
What The Beatles really does is capture the band at a pivotal moment, poised between past glories and a few more charmed years.
The classic first biography of the Beatles.
The original book ended with the band still together.
That's where this version ends too, but it contains an afterward with reflections on how quickly the band went from tight friendship to nasty bickering, but not many other details.
It would have been great, though, if Davies had originally followed the band through to the bitter end.
Since he was on the inside with the band, recording the events as they happened, this book is like getting a window right into their world.
Ridiculously enjoyable read. Major kudos for Ringo stories!! From childhood! Most Beatles books like to gloss over Starr as if he wasn't there... but according to Davies: Ritchie existed! *excitement*John's chapter also makes me wanna reach thru time and kick him in the balls!
Published in 1968, when the group was still together and still producing hits, it was one of the first books to focus on rock stars.
There are more than 30 pages of photos, many of which were taken just for the book itself, as this is the only authorized biography which was approved by all group members.Too young to be familiar with the Fab Four, I nevertheless learned about them when a music teacher told me Paul McCartney had been in a previous group named like insects.
Shook my world.Book Season = Summer (eazy breezy)
I've read A LOT of Beatles books and this has by far been my favorite. There are stories in this book that are not in any other Beatle book I've read.
I've read dozens of Beatles-related books and this was by far the best one. It wasn't a Lennon based book, (as most Beatles biographies seem to be) and it covered all of the lads equally.
Audio #115Didn’t learn anything new
Lako se čita, malo našminkana.
The book is written pre Yoko Ono, so I wonder if he would change some of these opinions, but it is interesting to read that from someone who is currently lionized for works like Day in The Life (which I love.) His overall point seems to be just do something, and let other people worry about adding their own underlying meanings and depth.
Back to the point, this book is a great read and I recommend it to anyone curious about the Beatles in their early and middle years.
the masterpiece on The Beatles. Deeply researched and essentially accurate. Not spilling over with the usual gossip and rumours which are still regretfully being printed.
This book is not as detailed as Shout! by Philip Norman, but is, I think, more enjoyable. The main body of the book was published in 1968, when The Beatles were still together, though this edition has a new introduction, written in 2002, and an afterward, written in 1985, that sort of catches the reader up on things (the deaths of John and George, Ringo's marriage to Barbara Bach, etc.). Plus, this is an authorized biography, so there was a lot of input from The Beatles and their families. A very interesting read!
This is a classic. I'm glad I had the chance to read this incredible book, which reveals the Fab 4 in their heyday. Davies was very transparent about the writing of the book with all of the issues regarding working with living biography subjects. It's as much a story about writing biographies as it is a piece of music history. I am already planning to read it again.
İlk defa beatles discografisini bitirdigimde de boyle beatles'i cok icsellestirmistim . Sanki kendimden bir parcaymis gibi . Bu kitapta da oyle oldu . Grup elemanlarinin adeta buyumesine birinci gozden sahit oluyormussunuz gibi. Oldukca begendim . Herhalde bundan daha iyi Hunter Davies'in yazdigi gibi bir Beatles biyografisini kimse yazamaz .
Excellent biography of the world's most celebrated pop band, through 1977, when all four members were still living.
What you get is a sober explanation of how this band functioned as a business, which was both more interesting than some star-studded tell-all biography, and also more pedestrian.
I also really appreciated the introductions and postscripts, both written decades later, which provided additional context on the story.The writing style is very clipped, which leaves you to feel like there isn't much editorial distance between the final product and the rushed notes that Davies must have been taking in his spare moments.
There's some fun Beatles lore, like how certain songs on Sgt. Pepper's were written, and a brief and awkward Pink Floyd cameo.
The individual interviews are remarkable; Paul (still with Jane Asher) pragmatic and polite despite his obvious arrogance, John clearly terrified, depressed and aimless, and morally conflicted about his fame; George displaying a near-cultlike fervor over his new religious beliefs; and Ringo, a young domestic saying lots of things he probably regrets like mad these days (especially about women's subservience to men, oh dear).
When Davies was writing, John and Ringo were about 27, Paul 25, George 24 (and already snobbily grousing about how "over" the Beatle thing he was!); it's all but impossible to fathom.
Достаточно подробно рассказано о многих событиях и людях: Гамбургских гастролях, Стю Сатклифе и его смерти, знакомстве с Брайаном Эпстайном, участии Пита Беста и его «отставке», первых записях под руководством Джорджа Мартина, выходе первых пластинок, гастролях, Америке, Битломании, окружении Биттлз и его значении, смерть Эпстайна, прекращение концертной деятельности и многие другие подробности из жизни участников.В большинстве биографий я читал о том, как песня за песней создавался тот или иной альбом, но здесь, в начале книги, этому уделено гораздо меньше внимания.
самих музыкантов.Надо учитывать то, что Дэвис согласовывал написание книги с самими Битлами.
I know George's voice as all the Beatles' voices, and I read their quotations imagining their own voices speaking.
Fortunately it was corrected in the paperback:"But Klaus Voormann and Astrid Kirchherr did."When Brian Epstein first saw the Beatles in concert at the Cavern, the 1968 edition says:"His first visit was the lunchtime session of November 9, 1962."That didn't seem right, especially since Davies refers to the drummer Pete Best on the next page.
The paperback had been corrected to say:"His first visit was the lunch-time session of 9th November, 1961."In the 1968 edition, the Beatles are flying 3000 feet over the Atlantic on their first visit to America.
A lot of this book felt very basic, and I was pretty disappointed, until pretty late in it, when the author spent time with the band while they were writing songs at home and in the studio.
I'd stop short of calling a quarter of each album filler material, but there's a lot of talk about "just needing 4 more songs", and the band doing whatever it took to get them done.
You'd like to think they agonized over every note in every song, working on writing them for years, since they are all classics.
The original authorized Beatles biography is still a great source.
This edition includes a recent postscript.
Written in 1968, the seismic changes coming are barely hinted at.
For instance the happy family (as portrayed) of John, Cynthia and Julian is in for a change very soon.
The divisions of the White Album and Get Back/Let It Be are still in the future.
This book is at its sharpest writing about the early days of the band, and is still a must read in that regard.
So much more research and umpteen biographies have been written, but Davies should get credit for getting as much in here as he could.
This is the only "official" biography. It has a great deal of interesting source material, but doesn't do a great job of pulling a compelling narrative out of it. Lots about their lives and personalities, not much insight into the music. It also left me feeling less interested in the Beatles then when I started - although maybe that was the narrative...
The foreword is too long. It's as if you're reading a book about the book about the Beatles. Once you get past that, what follows is a very interesting history of the Beatles! Any music lover, and definitely any Beatle fan, will like this biography. :)
Mostly dated now, and better told elsewhere, but I found Chpt 30 "The Beatles and Their Music" detailing their creative process - how songs got written and tracks laid down - to be of great importance.
Not a patch on Philip Normans more extensive (and likely more accurate) account. Authorised biographies should always be taken with a pich of salt but the notion that in 1968 each one of the Beatles did not drink or take drugs made it a bit ridiculous and wrecked it a bit for me.
I know that this was made to entice new audiences but the problem is that this is a very condensed (but really well structured and written) version of the beatles and their mythos, so if you aren’t sure about getting started on the mammoth books, documentaries and anthologies go read the wikipedia pages because that’s the beginning point (in my opinion because that’s what I did lmao)but as someone who already knew most things I found this a wonderful and surprising (also very long) read, I learned something new every once and a while, I’d have to say that hunter davies is one of my favorite beatle historians so farTHE 1985 AND 2009 ADD-ONS WHERE SO SAD AND FUNNY THOUGH KSJSJS I CAN’T BELIEVE HALF THE SHIT THAT WAS THERE WAS TRUEas I write this I’m watching the mexico v.
A great overall history of The Fab Four. Coming from a Beatle fanatic I would recommend this book at anyone who wants to read a legitament biography. Covers all aspects of their successes.
This book is a MUST read for anyone interested in knowing more about The Beatles and their influences.As for the audio book...Our narrator, Edward Lewis, comes across as a bland, male version of Siri.
The Beatles by Hunter Davies is a thorough, remarkable account of the Beatles as must be read by any true fan of the popular group, but the Audible/CD version has some of the worst narration for a book I've ever come across.
století, kterému se oddává další a další generace, velmi kvituji vydání této zásadní knihy v českém jazyce.
Píše se rok 1966, Beatles ukončili svá živá vystoupení, a knihy, které o nich vyšly by se daly spočítat na prstech jedné ruky...O co je kniha odbornější - dva roky na cestách, rozhovory s rodinnými příslušníky, přáteli, lidmi z branže na obou stranách Atlantiku, fanoušky a neposlední řadě hlavně se samostnými členy (po jejich souhlasu!) při práci ve studiu i doma v osobním životě - je její četba uvolněnější díky stále dechberoucí skoropohádce o jejich úspěchu i nespornému charismatu a smyslu pro humor.
Quite honestly, I thought this book was poorly written, but I am willing to cut the author some slack since he had to obtain approval from the individual Beatles and related characters, which may have impacted the final product.The version I read was updated, but the new information was not particularly insightful.
This book is called the only authorized Beatle biography, but it compares poorly to Bob Spitz's work on the same subject.
In fact, I conclude that Hunter Davies has written a book-length fan magazine.A major detraction is something that the author probably considered a good thing: the details.
However, Spitz's book is detailed.
“In an earthquake you get many versions of what happened by all the people that saw it.
And they’re all true.” ~ Paul McCartney.
The only authorized biography of the Fab Four allows us to take an unprecedented look into each of their lives as they grow up and spiral towards the height of their newly found fame.
Each Beatle is viewed separately as well as spotlighting their time within the group.
If you want a first-hand account of what George, Paul, Ringo and John experienced during their youth, rise to fame and during Beatlemania, look no farther than this book.
