https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4483096-under-the-black-ensign
Probably 3.5 rounded up. A pretty straight-forward pulp pirate tale. L. Ron Hubbard was one of the 1,000,000 word a year authors of the pulp era. He is better known in this era for creating Scientology. His pulp writing has nothing to do with his later pursuits. Surprisingly, despite a slave trade ship being part of this tale, blacks are not relegated to stereotypical behavior. This is not a full novel, but probably qualifies as a novella?
I was pleasantly surprised with Hubbard's adventure tale of Captain Bristol and "Jim".
The voice acting and style of the CD was great and I really enjoyed listening to it.
(I often can't listen to books on CD since I am a day dreamer and often stop paying attention but I was hooked with this story!) The cover art and retro feel of the CD and book are also a great plus.
Overall I highly recommend this to anyone who loves a good pirate adventure or who is looking to see another side of the man so famous for his Sci-Fi!
Three stars is a gift. I've never read any of Hubbarb's work and wonder what his writing was like before. Not bad, but not great. Action story which exhibits a good sense of place and time, though gets several big details wrong about ships of war in 1680. But, hey, it's pulp fiction.For a story written in 1935, it shows amazing sensitively toward women and black characters.Kevin J. Anderson's introduction doesn't quite square with the Wikipedia entry on Hubbard. I have no way of determining which is correct.A good read.
I received this book as part of a Goodreads First Reads Giveaway.Under the Black Ensign by L. Ron Hubbard is classic pulp fiction. As such it is a quick, fun read that is great for all ages. Even though short in length, Under the Black Ensign has a well developed story line and characters. The bright paperback cover fits the story perfectly and invites you in to a quick hour of reading pleasure. I have enjoyed reading several of L. Ron Hubbard's other early pulp fiction works before and this one is definitely worth taking the time to enjoy.
I assure you, Hubbard is the most talent writer. Every the best & unexpected subject - comes from Hubbard's books. This story is awesome. You should read it. His fiction books can make you life better. All his books can give good advices for all your life's spheres)
At no point in my reading of this did I find any references to either of these.If you are a reader that is looking for a no frills, straight to the action kind of book, this one will be right up your alley.
As with most of this Authors Golden Age books, the characters portrayed within its pages are not the usual stereotypical fodder one would except from this kind of book; instead they are more archetypical which makes the book more palatable for the reader.At only 121 pages, this little novella is full of pirates, adventure, mishap, exploits and did I mention pirates?
I received my copy of “Under the Black Ensign” through Goodreads’ First Reads program.
Ron Hubbard tales for these rainy Autumn afternoons.A note regarding Galaxy Press and scientology: The package containing my copy of “Under the Black Ensign” included a brief note from the publisher and a catalog featuring other titles published by Galaxy Press.
The book itself, in addition to the title story, included a short history of pulp fiction and a brief biography of L.
Ron Hubbard is a pirate adventure story that follows that of Tom Bristol who was press-ganged into serving the British navy.
Full of swashbuckling action, "Under the Black Ensign" is a must for those who love a good pirate adventure.I won this book through Goodreads Giveaways.
Though I have to give Jim credit for helping Bristol out on a few occasions, so she wasn't entirely useless.Overall, this little book wasn't entirely my thing, but if you're someone who likes quick easy pirate stories and high sea adventure you may appreciate this more than me.
Goodreads First Reads Giveaway Book.------------------------------------Another fast-action short story involving swashbuckling pirates in the Caribbean waters.
The recent publication of Under the Black Ensign covers the adventures of Tom Bristol, former first mate of the ship Randolph and later as the captain of the pirate ship Falcon.
With over 300 works, Hubbard wrote in different story genre, including Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery, Romance, Science Fiction, and Western.
And, his claims of what he did in the military conflicts with the official records.Although written almost 80 years ago, Under the Black Ensign is sure to provide the reader an adventure similar to that of Captain Jack Sparrow and Elizabeth Swann from the 2003 film, 
He did a wonderful job helping me visualize the story.
I don't know much about ships and pirates but the book has a large glossary and I actually learned a lot by reading this book.
Action, suspense, educational, and a great love story.
Bristol has a great crew that helps him execute his plan and he discovers his true love in the oddest situation.
Ron Hubbard with a list of his other books.
I also received the audio version of this story.
They do a great job making you feel like you are a member of the crew.
This may have been the first Audio Book and paperback from the Golden Age by L Ron Hubbard's that I experienced and it is an excellent one set in the Caribbean 1680.Tom Bristol the hero in this tale gets in bad with the haughty Lord High Governor when while working high in the rigging his marlinspike slips from his fingers and narrowly misses bouncing the later's pompous head and hits the deck.Loaded with adventure, suspense and plot twists, this is an excellent historical novel.
The story's pacing was fast and the adventure was never running short.The vocabulary he used, as well as the terminology in the beginning, gives you a clear portrayal of the ship.
And the emotion of the story--from the beginning when someone is about to be whipped, to the fights and confrontations throughout--make for a well-crafted adventure.
I could practically feel the heat and briny air as I read this book.Even the character dialogue was great, packed with tension and threats.I was craving a story that was different from what I usually read, and this was a refreshing tale written by a very talented writer.
The main character is a good man that falls into piracy because of the corupt government of his country.
But the ovious bad guys are of course the government that gets beaten by the pirates at the end.
Lets not forget there is a woman pretending to be a man and a pirate aboard the ship, and she and the main character are oviously in love though nothing is said about it until the end when it is announced that they are getting married out of no where.This was a very fast read and very predicatable but it was still a fun little adventure story.
One of the more enjoyable pirate-based stories that I've read recently.
The language was authentic enough to keep me engaged in the story, and the characters were believable in their bluster, fears and hopes.About the only thing that had me squinting was the ease with which Bristol sailed through the Caribbean.
Everything turned out for the best with him, despite the many attempts by others to make his life difficult.Still, that's understandable, since he was the main character of this short story.
I also found that I was seeing parallels between Bristol's crew and the movie "Glory", which I loved.Good quick read by an American legend!
Having never read any pulp fiction, I was unsure what to expect when starting this book.
The story follows Tom Bristol and "Jim" as they expand from working aboard a British ship to becoming pirates.
Under the Black Ensign is a quick easy read but as enough storyline to keep it interesting.
I do wish there was a lot more fleshing out of the characters and plot line but from what I understand, pulp fiction is more quick stories than in depth detail plots.
There are times when you just need those books that you can knock out in an afternoon and don't require a lot of thinking!
I enjoy taking a break from my other book review reads and reading the pulp fiction of L.
Ron Hubbard.
The books are an easy read that typically only take me a few hours to read, but take me to a different place altogether.Under the Black Ensign made me giggle as I found myself reading much of the book in pirate talk.The joy of this quick, easy read is that it has the suspense, action and romance all wrapped into one short story without it taking me forever to get to the point and spending days reading it.This was a fun read set on the sea with royalty and buccaneers.
A fun to read pirate adventure from the 1930s with the language of the time and suitable reading for all ages. Tom Bristol runs into numerous problems leading him to piracy on the high seas and the adventures continued. Although written well before I was born, I found this an enjoyable book to read. Mr. L. Ron Hubbard lived a life of adventure and provided the public with some adventures they would never have had. Thanks to Galaxy Press and Goodreads for the oppertunity to read and review this fine work of fiction.
What a wonderfully written tale, action packed adventure on the high seas and ocean blue, the year is 1680. Sailing ships, man-o'-war, HMS Terror, and great characters make for a totally enjoyable, fast read. I was pleasantly surprised and would like to read other short story adventures by this author. A clean, character building read for kids and older alike. Includes a few interesting pages about L. Ron Hubbard. Thank you GoodReads, first-reads for this chance to win this book, which I did through your giveaway. Recommend.
I won a free copy of this book on GoodReads, so thanks to them and to the publisher (Galaxy Press).That was fun. I've read L. Ron Hubbard before, but mainly the Battlefield Earth and Mission Earth books. While those were epic and sprawling, this book is an example of Hubbard's early work, his many pulp adventures.This one is a pirate tale. It was quickly paced and enjoyable, with lots of action and even a bit of intrigue. A damsel (not always in distress) is also included.
A fun read and every bit as entertaining as advertised. Some people turn their noses up at the pulp stories of the 30's and 40's. But when it came to whipping up white-knuckled tales of adventure, authors like L. Ron Hubbard were masters of the craft. It's been a while since I enjoyed a great adventure story and it looks like I'll have to dive back into more books from this period when stories were meant to be fun and not grim and dreary.
I liked this book. A quick, simple read that was entertaining and appropriate for readers of all ages. No sex, no graphic volience, no vulgar language, but still a great story with plenty of action.I won this book through the Goodreads giveaway program. What a great program and I want to thank Galaxy Press for making this book available. I hope that the entire collection of L. Ron Hubbard's work finds a huge market of readers that will enjoy his wide range of settings and adventures.
I received Under the Black Ensign as a free audiobook from the publisher. I have enjoyed listening to several other stories from the Golden Age previously. The sound effects are fantastic. The readers do an excellent job. There is always enough suspense to hold the listeners attention. This was another very enjoyable book by L. Ron Hubbard.
Received this as a free gift here on Goodreads. This is a well written pirate tale. The story contains all of the elements one looks for in a good story - interesting characters, drama, a bit of romance. Although it is not in a style that I typically read, I do recognize that it is well written.
One of the best historic stories I have read. Many twists and turns and not a boring moment.
Pulp fiction is awesome.
A short and nicely done 1930's pulp pirate adventure. Depp need not apply.
Originally serialized in 1935, this slender pirate adventure can be read in under an hour, and if you like pulp fiction, it's a reasonably enjoyable hour.
Plenty of swashbuckling fiction has been set on these high seas, to my mind, the best of which is Rafael Sabatini's Captain Blood.
And like that book, the hero of this story is destined for death, only to escape and become a pirate lord, taking his revenge against the cruel British, and making time for a bit of romance on the side.
Just the ticket if you're in the mood for a quick historical adventure tale.
3 Stars Another consistently good, pulp fiction from L Ron Hubbard.
I read because I love a good story, and if that story involves spaceships or elves or in this case pirates, so much the better.
Galaxy Press is re-releasing a bunch of his old golden age stories, usually with the original cover art.* This is the third such volume I’ve read, and there is a consistent degree of quality here.
It’s incredibly fun, and as I noted above, that’s why I read.
Thus, the title Under The Black Ensign to me implied that the main character would find himself serving under a pirate captain with an incredibly odd nom de guerre.
Thanks to LibraryThing for awarding this book to me through their giveaway!The Story.Tom Bristol didn’t volunteer to serve on the HMS Terror.
One hundred lashes with the whip is too good for him!But Bristol is saved, strangely enough, by the attack of a pirate ship which overwhelms the Terror.
Ron Hubbard – The Iron Duke and The Phantom Patrol.
And Under the Black Ensign acquits itself well by these standards.Of course, Under the Black Ensign’s ending bore a remarkable resemblance to the ending of Captain Blood.
