https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44255.Toujours_Provence
No longer is there any sort of continuity to Mayle's writing, but rather a collection of short vignettes, some of which might tie into an earlier story or theme, but most that just seem like a glimpse into lives we were given a front-row seat to in A Year in Provence.Chapters in Toujours Provence are given actual titles, a departure from the month titles of the previous book, and it's very telling.
Симпатична и приятна за четене книга, даваща прекрасна възможност на "книжните пътешественици" като мен да получат доза бягство от забързания ни начин на живот.
С характерното си свежо чувство за хумор, познато ни от "Една година в Прованс", Питър Мейл продължава да обрисува живописно ежедневието си на англичанин, предпочел безвремието на френския юг пред вечно мрачната британска действителност.
Прелиствайки страниците, почти можеш да усетиш аромата на лавандуловите храсти, да си представиш вкуса на прекрасните френски вина и изящните ястия, да се насладиш на дребните /и не толкова/ удоволствия на френския провинциален живот.
Написана с много топлина и привързаност към Прованс и неговите хора, "Прованс завинаги" зарежда читателя с характерната за провансалеца любов към живота.
Peter Mayle writes about characters: Monsieur X, the truffle hunter; Massot with his metal detector; Boy, the dog, who ate the seat belt on his first car trip (and who apparently now has his own book, A Dog's Life).
In Mayle's hands, the place of Provence and the French language become characters as well.
From musing about Pavarotti's dinner to learning about the history of pastis, everything about this book is cheering.
I've enjoyed all the other books by Mayle that I've read (A Year in Provence, Hotel Pastis, and A Good Year), for much the same reasons I enjoyed this book.
Еще одна душевная книга про Прованс. Очень понравились эти маленькие истории про людей, про традиции, про еду и вино. Эх, махнуть бы сейчас туда на недельку, другую!
Fun, little stories from the man that brought us, A Year in Provence. I love books that immerse me in a different culture. Oh, how the French enjoy their food :)
I thought this format worked much better than the monthly chapters of A Year in Provence. It was still pretty far from a page-turner, though. Maybe it's the kind of book I should have read in summer - possibly in France - instead of during a cold and grey fall. It did succeed in making me want to eat a lot of french food, though.
I loved the book, so much so that I want to retire in Provence myself. The scenery, the villages, the people may not be same from Peter Mayle's time but still some parts of the old Provence lifestyle is bound to remain...I'm also impressed by the author's wit and subtlety; the book was fun to read.
Just as entertaining as the first Provence book that I read about 10 years ago. Very similar format, lots of short stories about the people and Day to day life for a British couple now living in Provence. Since it was written 30 years ago I am sure the life described is no longer possible but wow the good old days!
Peter Mayle can probably do no wrong. This book is simply a continuation of the same from "A Year in Provence" and thusly, a delicious read.
When reading a memoir you get a personal look at things from the writer’s perspective, making it feel like you’re traveling vicariously without ever stepping into an airplane.
Tourjours Provence allowed me a wonderful snapshot of life in a place allegedly advertised by a local real estate agent as “The California of Europe”.
Mayle admits feeling like an outsider, a ‘permanent visitor’ to someone else’s country but that’s what makes this book so great.
It also makes me thankful for my life in California where we are all just permanent visitors enjoying the sun.
(Okay, I haven't tried any of his fiction, although it's on the list.) While Toujours Provence isn't my favorite of his travelogues (that would always have to be A Year In Provence, it's still delightful.
More truffle-eating adventures, more wine, more silly local antics, more legendary meals?I can't bring myself to criticize Toujours Provence; indeed, I don't have any criticism for it.
So I'll just tell you about my favorite moments: the arrival of Boy, the eager-to-please Provencal dog...
and my absolute favorite part, the author's enlisting of his grouchy neighbor Massot to help him search for gold coins in the garden.
Колкото до френските думи - още повече са.
:)"След Бонию природата стана по-дива и по-сурова, лозите отстъпиха място на камъни, дъбови шубраци и пурпурни лавандулови поля.
Нямаше коли и къщи.
Можеше спокойно да сме на сто километра от шикозните села на Люберон и се радвах, че все още съществува толкова много неопитомена, празна земя.
Кучето, което живее на купчината дърва след кметството, отвори едното си око и излая небрежно, а дете, държащо котенце, вдигна очи — бели чинийки на фона на кръгло кафяво лице — при необичайната гледка на движещи се по пътя коли."
This book is an enjoyable follow-up to "A Year in Provence" and goes more into the details of daily life and life's adventures, and frustrations, in living in a Mediterranean country.
I can understand the frustration of dealing with the seemingly unfathomable bureaucracy involved in getting anything accomplished and the difficulty for an Anglo in trying to adapt to the "C'est la vie" way of thinking.
One drawback for me is what seems a pedantic overuse of French words and expressions (irony here) interspersed throughout the book.
Truthfully, an understanding of French is not necessary to appreciate the idyll in the south of France, and it is enjoyable and enviable.
In a sense a good life to experience, a horrendously boring traveling blog to read.
And I think I also have a problem with the style how Peter Mayle writes, because I was literally nodding off between the chapters.
When I came around again and read some more, I felt I really wanted to eat something nice.
Maybe travel there, drink some wine and eat those weirdly named gourmet' dishes in a relaxing environment.
But not to read about it.
At least definitely not like Mayle writes.
Not a paragraph went by without requiring you to jump down to the underline translations.Not my glass of wine.
2nd in Mayle's very popular Provence trilogy, personal essays about his life and experiences there. It's fluff, but very enjoyable fluff, and while not quite as entertaining as the 1st, I easily lost myself in the pages, and recommend it. Lovely pen and ink drawings throughout by Judith Clancy are a real joy - I can just flip through and gaze at them happily...chapters like "No Spitting in Châteauneuf-du-Pape," “A Pastis Lesson," "Inside the Belly of Avignon" and the like are great snapshots of that region.
I really enjoyed this book. Peter Mayle writes about his daily life in Provence. It continues where a A Year in Provence leaves off. It is a great read and really made me want to travel to that region of France. I definitely want to read his other books as well.
Fun read.
Grotesque stereotyping and cutesy exoticizing. I only read the first chapter, so maybe it got infinitely better, but I doubt it.
Interesting quick read with little vignettes about the author and his wife relocating from England to Provence...the slower pace of life, great food, the characters. I loved the story of the absinthe factory whose owner just switched over to anis when absinthe was made illegal in 1915 due to it being a hallucinogen and dangerous, even deadly sometimes. The writer notes this change had "the considerable advantage that customers would live to come back for more."
The second Provence and whilst it was still an evocative read didn’t quite resonate with me. It may due to the unrelated anecdotal style that felt like short stories that could have added into the first or possibly that the first was so good in character detail that this one felt a bit lacking. Difficult to say. You won’t be disappointed with this account - it still presents a romantic idyllic lifestyle that many would be envious of.
I read this book with absolute pleasure! I'd read "A Year in Provence" before this and was hooked! I loved hearing about the people and the food in Provence and it made me want to visit someday. I've never had truffles and thought truffles always meant "Chocolate Truffles" (One track mind). I think maybe I'll have to try the truffles found in the woods: hopefully in a restaurant. Some of the stories Peter Mayle writes are absolutely hilarious!
I liked this book better than "A Year in Provence" simply because the short stories made it a better travel companion on holiday, offered a more diverse look at life in southern France, and because the story about "Boy" had both my husband and I laughing out loud with Mayle's particular turn of phrase. All-in-all it was light and fun, and I enjoyed it. But I'm not sure I'm going to seek out any more in the series and I'm unlikely to re-read it.
RIP Peter Mayle, gentleman, writer and bon-viveur!His litearary skills are beyond any doubt: Jerome k. Jerome's naive humor, O Henry abilities as a story-teller, Jeffrey Archer nobility and detachment, Hasek's satirical talent. But, above all rises his goodness in the air, which can be reached only by the finest ones. Chapeau...
Pretty good, but if you've read a year in provence then you've got the gist and this is superfluous. Some of the stories are fairly entertaining, but its almost as though someone is telling you an 'in' joke and saying 'you should have been there'.
Entertaining, heart-warming and humorous. Only problem, I became quite hungry while reading about the wonderful foods and meals enjoyed by those living in Provence. Definitely need to visit this area in France.
A book bursting with joie de vivre that will help to cast away the winter blues and have you yearning for sun drenched al fresco dining with the seemingly compulsory glass (or two) of vin rouge - c'est très bon!
This book was enjoyable but only mildly so. I found it didn't hold my interest as well as the first one nor was it nearly as funny. This was more a smattering of meandering stories - relaxing but without much intent, similar I imagine to a summer day in Provence.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Loved this book. As I am especially interested in France & French, it was a delight to read.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
