https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38180.On_the_Beach
“It's not the end of the world at all," he said. "It's only the end for us. The world will go on just the same, only we shan't be in it. I dare say it will get along all right without us.” An Instructional Manual from 1951 on what to do in the event of an A-Bomb attack.On the Beach was published in 1957, but the novel is set in what was then the near future of 1963. Those years between 1957-1963 proved to be tumultuous years indeed. When I checked this book out of the library, the librarian, the
Luckily she bailed me out and told me she read the book much later, but still while we were up to our eyeballs in the Cold War. My Father has always said he has never been more afraid of the World Ending than in 1962 during the Cuban Missile Crisis.
The people who didn’t like this book were looking for the standard apocalyptic novel with desperate people fleeing in front of the radiation (zombies, tidal wave, Ebola etc) hoping to live days longer or maybe even hoping for a reprieve.
and everyone in the southern hemisphere knows the rest of the world is dead dead dead and they are just waiting for the radiation to drift downwards where they will succumb to vomiting and diarrhea and weakness and eventual death.
they buy some presents for children they know are already dead in other parts of the world (yes, this means that even though they know they will be dead within the month, there are still people reporting to work at the toy shop).
It's a dystopian story that is possible, it could really happen. How a global nucular war would play out nobody knows, but Nevil Shute's version is realistic. It is tragic, horrific, romantic, and sad. It shows humanity at it's best and it's worst and makes us all wonder how we would react in a similar situation. The ending was brilliant; an instant tear in the eye and lump in the throat.
But these are quickly dashed and then everyone accepts it with quiet resignation.I'm sure when it was written, this book was strangely scary and virtually prophetic.
I haven't read a book since "Lucifer's Hammer" where I actively rooted for the apocolyptic event to happen already just to kill off some of the characters in the story and maybe get things moving.
It's a hard book to read, not because of the subject matter but because virtually nothing happens and none of the characters are interesting enough to make the investment of time worth it in the end.
Nevil Shute’s On the Beach, originally published in 1957, is a post-apocalyptic novel which takes place in Melbourne, Australia a year or so after a nuclear World War III.
This final world war was so devastating that radioactive clouds are slowly traveling the earth, and killing all people and animals in its wake.
And this is where the story takes place; the final months, weeks and days of some of the last people on earth.
Occasionally people will make statements such as, “It won’t be long now” and “We all have to go sometime, only now we know when that sometime will be” But for the most part, people in Shute’s novel live their remaining time in a state of …denial?
In this case we are told that the 'phoney' is bad, where phoney is understood to mean too dramatic or unrealistic, realism is the desired effect and a certain subtly - for which I'd give the book a B plus, or possibly a C minus as I think they have too much electricity, and too much food, and I'm a bit bothered that so many people keep on working and don't attempt to go to certain places (view spoiler)[ as apparently Peter Thiel has made preparations to do in the potential event of a similar process or event (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ also were do do all the bullocks come from to serve as draft animals, this story is meant to be set in Australia not India (hide spoiler)] .
Unlike many others by Nevil, I've only read this one once. Didn't see movie. Remember enjoying the Australian setting and characters, how Shute depicted their mindsets and behaviors. Encourage readers who have read only this to try others by the author. A classic post holocaust speculation from when terrorism wasn't ...When stationed at SAC, near Omaha, in the early 1960s, my barracks was among closest airman housing to the flight line. The sounds of big war birds ... Recommended Genre Companion = Pat Frank's BabylonAlas, Babylon
Autor romana, Nevil Shute, je pre svega poznat po svom romanu "Grad kao Alis" koji je ekranizovan u vidu TV serije koja je osamdesetih godina bila davana i na ovim prostorima.
U Melburnu, koji je jedan od najjužnijih gradova, ljudi kao da žive normalnim životom.
Njihove sudbine se prepliću i svi će oni doći do tačke kada će morati da odaberu - da li će umreti dostojanstveno ili od mučnih posledica radijacije...Shute u ovom romanu ne detaljiše mnogo o samom ratu ili radijaciji.
Sama radnja romana teče poprilično sporo, mada to u neku ruku kao da reflektuje to lagano proširivanje radijacije ka samom jugu.
This is a stirring, eerily believable short work by Nevil Shute.
There is an ample mix of denial and acceptance in each of the characters, some of whom prepare for next year's garden even though they have been told the end is expected in a matter of months.The main characters are a US submarine commander, Dwight Towers, and his counterpart, lt.
It is almost frightening to think that anyone would prefer to continue their work in the face of such catastrophe, but it might beat the alternative of just waiting for life to be finally snuffed out completely.What caused this annihilation?
And every little country that had some money stated to drop bombs.
You are scheduled to die within a couple of months, so then tell me, do you really care if your daffodils are coming up next spring or whether you should be faithfull to your wife, far away in the U.S., who surely is dead as everyone else is over there?
You would imagine the few remaining people are terrified for the toxic cloud coming their way but, no, everyone is behaving rationally and politely and go on doing their usual stuff as much as they can.
Perhaps I should pay some respect to Nevil Shute for writing what must be one of the first dystopian books in the popular sense.
So there you go, cheers Nevil, you managed to write a very peculiar book.

Re-reading it after many years I wonder if it was one of the books that helped fix in the public's mind the notion of 'mutually assured destruction' and of just how costly to the planet nuclear war must be.Despite the finality of the end, it is surprisingly not depressing, rather I found it a cleansing sort of ending and put it down with a sort of serious yet sad satisfaction.On the beach was published in 1957 and is set in the 'future' of the early 1960's just after a short and terminal war during which nuclear weapons were deployed extensively in the northern hemisphere.
This book was recommended after my disappointment with Cormac McCarthy's "The Road." I cannot say it was an improvement.The characters in the novel are largely one-dimension with little contrast and their interactions are superficial and or stereotypical.
Dwight's by-the-book mentality, even right at the end, is a bit difficult to stomach.
The author wanted denial to be an evocative and reoccurring theme of the book, but I never feel he earned it with what he wrote.
The book was emotionally empty.There was little of interest in the plot.
Чете се много.
Това е от най-редките книги, от тези които творят история.
Особенно важно е да бъде прочетена от хората, които имат достъп до куфарчетата с кодовете за изстрелване на ракетите с ядрени бойни глави.
И се надявам поне малко да е спомогнала за разрешаването на Карибската криза, случила се едва няколко години след публикуването и.Невил Шут майсторски описва края на света.
За да оцелеят накрая само зайците, поне за още една година...
За желаещите - има я в Читанка за свободен прочит, но аз заплатих един лев и сега е сред останалите страхотни книги в библиотеката ми.https://chitanka.info/text/37206-na-b...
Go to the beach, swim, sail, go to work, enjoy parties and drink, plant the daffodils, clear the trees and chop the wood .There is no let up for the reader, always the knowledge that it will happen.It's a bleak vision of a post apocalyptic world that is at once both terrifying and moving.As I said in my earlier update it felt like a black and white film from the fifties, the manners, the correctness, the language of the book is of that time.
On the Beach is set in what was the near future to British-Australian author Nevil Shute, writing in 1957: 1963, approximately a year after World War III.
As a "What if?" scenario, and an overt warning, the novel is very effective.I was, however, expecting a wider range of reactions, from religious reawakenings to last-minute scientific schemes.
But perhaps Shute's narrow focus makes his point: in the end, with so much warning and so few ways to combat what is coming, people ultimately will just carry on, quietly accept, and then die.
Well written & so plausible that it's scary, it's also survived the test of time very well. Written over 50 years ago in 1957 by engineer Nevel Shute Norman, an engineer who owned a firm that made secret stuff for the British government, it amazed me by how the politics & cause of the war are still so possible.The book follows about 6 people for the last 6 months of their lives. There is no explicit sex or violence. The northern hemisphere has been turned into a radioactive wasteland &am
Written over 50 years ago in 1957 by engineer Nevel Shute Norman, an engineer who owned a firm that made secret stuff for the British government, it amazed me by how the politics & cause of the war are still so possible.The book follows about 6 people for the last 6 months of their lives.
Australia has about 6 months to live & they know it.
it's quite a fantastic journey & well worth the time to read.I've never seen either film made from the book & don't think I care to since they screwed up the endings according to Wikipedia.
This really is not a good book.
Scott Fitzgerald novel where everyone just sits around having double brandies all day (but with no sex) and the Plague(but with no gory details.) The premise, an atomic holocaust has obliterated the northern hemisphere and all of Australia awaits a radioactive cloud that is coming to kill everyone on earth in 6 month of time.
The whole book is just a count down in which you get to know some of the most boring and two dimensional characters around.
Question: how did this novel get on the list of 100 best novels of all time (published by the modern library association)?
I guess I'll discuss my problem with the story first and save the best (the reason I would really like to give it a 5) for last.One book in particular that always comes to my mind when thinking of dystopian literature is Cormack McCarthy's 'The Road'; the reason being the disturbing nature of the story.
At one point while reading I got a song stuck in my head and humorously imaged these characters in a club all smiling and dancing to the REM song 'It's The End Of The World As We Know It, And I Feel Fine'!Nope!
At Goodreads, we have a tradition in December called "The 12 Days of Goodreads" where we essentially send a chain email across the company with each person nominating a book to be given to the next person, and so on.
We have 12 Days to complete the chain.
Embarrassingly, I'd never heard of "On the Beach" despite living in Australia for 8 years before moving to San Francisco.But the upside of all of this is that when I did start this book, I went in completely blind.
It suddenly made it all too horribly real.Thanks to Sebastian for an amazing book choice.
An American submarine captain, Dwight Towers and his crew arrive on the shores of Australia: the last inhabitants of the world.
Dwight Towers and his crew, along with the Australian Lieutenant-Commander Peter Holmes set out on a submarine mission to America to identify where a morse code signal is coming from.
It gets me thinking about how I would behave if I knew the world was coming to an end and reminds me of the important things in life.
Times were a bit different then, and what happens in this novel was a real fear at the time (so my mum says!).
Sassy dame.
Fishing.Except it's way more interesting because everyone is about to die in a few months from radiation poisoning!
Plus the sassy dame is funnier, nicer, and drinks even more!!
Anyway I don't like Hemingway.
Also a complete twit you'd like to bludgeon with a boomerang or a kookaburra or something else Australian.
I always like for there to be at least one stupid twit for me to hate.
Most of the characters are in denial and just waste their last days puttering around like normal.
Maybe that's just the way it would be for lots of people.
Acknowledgement--On the Beach
We’ve just got to take it.” Towers (and the author, clearly) gets frustrated with Moira, my favourite character, because he thinks it’s pointless to drink as much as she does.
Towers seems to think this is a waste of time, and thinks she should do things like learn a new skill with the 6 months they have left, or find a job.
He’s not the only man in this book who condescends to women characters—who, naturally, are all written as naive and irrational, while the men are brave, stalwart, sensible.
No more stars, because the men in this book (and the author) are condescending to the women characters.
Probably the most heart-wrenching book I've read.
It's the story of an all-out nuclear war.
And, although Australia has been spared the bombs, the fallout is spreading and heading that way.
It was so easy to deeply care about the characters as they live their final days...how they prepare...how they avoid preparation.
Heavy, dark and emotional...but one of those books that envelopes you and that you never forget.
I read it for the first time almost 20 years ago and it is still one of the best books I've read.
The grammar and language leaves a bit to be desired, but if you read through that, you're golden.
Read this book if you're ever tempted to think that global nuclear war wasn't a real threat. People were scared shitless, with good reason.
Shute makes some interesting narrative choices which lessen the dramatic tension rather than increase it.
We are led to believe everyone, all the characters Shute creates and everyone else living on earth, will die, (view spoiler)[ and they do (hide spoiler)].
(hide spoiler)] Then at the end, intriguingly, (view spoiler)[ Peter Holmes stays mostly healthy as his wife and baby succumb to radiation sickness.
This seems to signal Peter's willingness to live.
Shute could have taken this somewhere interesting, and left Peter alive at the end, but instead Peter commits suicide along with Mary and the baby.
(hide spoiler)]A world that humans, knowingly, kill off.
Written in 1957, at the height of the Cold War, Shute also imagines a post-apocalyptic world.
But, as the novel progresses, and the radioactive cloud moves inexorably farther south, all hope for survival vanishes.
Plenty of grace notes in a minor key and an interesting reminder of how the world must have seemed at the height of the Cold War, the book now seems little more than an interesting footnote.*: The initial aggressor was - Albania - which I suppose was a politically safe choice of bad guy back in 1957.
I wasn't expecting that I would be on the verge of tears, but the latter half, particularly the last chapter cannot be read without a poignant, heart-wrenching grief over the recognition "the world is going to end."It was such a blow to me.There is not much going on in the first half, just descriptions of the banality of everyday life, if you like, but in the latter half, the notion of dooms day slowly creeped in throughout, which made me feel so sad that I had to put it down.
Love this book, own it.Story of a group of people waiting to die (really, they are) in Australia as a cloud of radioactive fallout moves closer and closer to them.
The 1959 movie is also very good, starring Fred Astaire, Gregory Peck, Ava Gardner and Anthony Perkins and I have never endorsed a movie based on a book before.
But they are both THAT good.
