https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11889.Bullet_Park
The winters were too inclement for citrus fruit but much too clement for the native white birch."The second half belongs to Hammer (yes, Hammer and Nailes), and is told in an odd, tight stream-of consciousness first person that has a good deal of surreality, sometimes to its detriment.
This section is faster, more character driven, and less good, as the voice loses Cheever's lyricism.
The narrative hook comes in very close to the end of this section, and is quickly resolved in a climax that seems way too easy.
One gets the feeling (as with the Wapshots, to a lesser extent), that Cheever is mocking the expectations we have for novels as he revels in them.
Welcome to Bullet Park, paradise of the American middle class.
In this exemplary environment we will be witnesses of the fateful meeting between two men: one hand, Eliot Nailles, a citizen that is fully integrated into their community, which, despite its internal contradictions, wants his wife and his son to the happy disposition, and, on the other hand, a new neighbor, Paul Hammer, a nowhere man which, after half a lifetime of wandering, decides to buy a house in Bullet Park.
Coinciding with the arrival of the stranger, Nailles will see how their little world is slowly crumbling.
The tragedy is unleashed when his son starts to have problems in school and will intensify to unsuspected limits.Room in New YorkEdward HopperDate: 1940Cover of this book edition
An upper middle class New York suburb is chosen by an apparent psychopath for the location of a senseless murder.
A metaphor for the perceived attack on or deterioration of middle class values during the 1960's?
Possibly but then why would Cheever put such an attack in the mind and hands of another middle class nutcase?
Locations - Rome, the Italian Alps, Switzerland, Cleveland - come and go without need or apparent purpose.
If this book had been written 30 years later, I would have pegged it as authored by an experimental AI programme.
Daha ziyade düzenin çarkına kapılmış, büyük şehirdeki (New York) işleri ile evleri arasında mekik dokuyan, mutluluk rolü oynayan, teselliyi genelde içkide bulan, arada cinsel fanteziler veya maceralar da yaşayan, ama genelde bir kıstırılmış duygusu içinde olan kişiler bunlar.
Buradaki bazı yorumlarda da dikkat çekildiği üzere Richard Ford’un “Revolutionary Road”uyla bazı paralelikler içeriyor.
Romana hakim karamsar atmosfer son cümlede de müstehzi bir şekilde vurgulanıyor.
İki ayrı koldan ve ilk iki bölümde gelişen hikaye gerilimin iyice arttığı üçüncü ve son (ve de en kısa) olan bölümde kesişiyor.
Kitabın ilk yarısı daha güçlü.
Romana pek bir anlam katmayan, adeta öylesine değinilip geçilen sürekli seyahatler gibi tuhaflıklar da var.
Watching Cheever's instincts chafe against the novel form, and watching him accept that and willfully embrace the resulting weirdness, is pleasurable.
Instead of revisiting objects and letting them accumulate value for the reader, Cheever instead propels the reader through a tunnel of unconnected incidents which can appear quite arbitrary but which hold together thematically, that is, abstractly, symbolically.
Only later do you realize that the tunnel is descending and the grade is getting steeper, and that those seemingly haphazardly arranged incidents are forcing you towards some emotional disaster.
kapitalizme, amerikan orta sınıfına, new york'a işe trenle giden banliyö insanlarına mükemmel bir bakış. çalış, güzel bir kadınla evlen, çoğal, havuzlu 5 odalı bir ev al, pazarları kiliseye gidip çimleri biç, 15'te bir parti ver... amerikan filmlerinden ve bence en önemlisi "mad men"den aşina olduğumuz bir hayat.ilk bölümle ikinci bölüm sonunda bağlansa da ikinci bölümün, hammer'ın hikayesinin daha zayıf olduğunu düşünüyorum. cheever sanki sonlara doğru sıkılmış sanki. nailles ve ailesinin hikayesi ise mükemmel.richard yates'in bağımsızlık yolu adlı romanıyla bullet park'ı bir arada inceledim: http://tembelveyazar.blogspot.com.tr/...
"Bullet Park," like most great books, establishes itself in the first line: "Paint me a small railroad station then, ten minutes before dark." As soon as I read that I knew I was going to love the book.
It is Cheever's gleeful refusal to answer any of these questions that carries "Bullet Park."The novel is at once digressive, non-linear, and barreling along with the momentum of one of those trains that carry Eliot Nailles into the city every day.
Amerikan banliyö hayatının boşluğunu ve hastalıklı insanlarını hicivle anlatan bir kitaptı. Yazarın diğer kitaplarına da göz atacağım.
3.5 'Beni sevmenin tek nedeni, beni sevdiğini düşünmenin tek nedeni, bana bir şeyler verebilmen.' Sf:107  'Tony pazartesi okula geri döndü, Nailles ise -uyuşturucu etkisi altında- işe gitti; her şey eskisi gibi harika, harika, harika, harikaydı.' Sf:214

Most people I know really don't like this book.
I read it at a time when I sort of identified with the central agonist...well one could argue whether the father or the son was central...but I was a teenager and similarly weird.
The novel has a real redemptive (almost Biblical) beauty in the way the father breaks through societal, cultural, etc.
conditioning....well there was a spoiler....soz!....to me, this is another book (like, say, Franny and Zooey, which I ADORE) in that category where if you read the book AT THE RIGHT TIME it sort of stays with you forever.
In a way, I hesitate to give this novel merely a 4 because I'm guessing that when Cheever originally wrote it in 1967, it was a great deal more astounding.
Fortunately, though this point has been made multitudes of times since humans could hold pencils, he delivers in a twisted and interesting way with a commanding sense of language that helps you identify with the glimpses of these tortured moments.
You read novels, philosophy, stuff like that and it makes you feel old."pg.
128 "All rain tastes the same and yet rain fell for Nellie from a diversity of skies.
El libro empieza cuando Hammer se traslada a un barrio de los suburbios llamado Bullet Park, que es descrito por Cheever de una forma muy particular, entre mítica e irónica, consciente perfectamente de que en buena parte han sido sus obras las que han cimentado los tópicos de estos escenarios suburbanos, como las fiestas con alcohol a raudales, los monótonos viajes en tren para ir a trabajar a la ciudad y la insatisfacción reprimida.
Como les pasa a prácticamente todos los habitantes de Bullet Park, la vida de Nailles ha perdido cualquier sentido espiritual que podría haber tenido, pero aún así parece que en ocasiones se empeña en buscarlo, por más que no se atreve a reconocerlo en voz alta y ni siquiera a él mismo.
I've been meaning to read Cheever all my adult life, but didn't expect to like him -- suburban malaise is not a subject I need to spend a lot more time exploring.
Bullet Park just goes to show that subject matter has little bearing on your enjoyment when the author is capital-G Great.
Cheever makes it fresh, and throws in the counterpoint to the protagonist Nailles -- the sociopathic Hammer who decides on a whim to murder Nailles' son.
What a great surprise Bullet Park turned out to be.

I wonder if the author thought through the entire book before writing, though, since the last 100 pages just barely necessitate the first 100.
The writing is more modern than I expected, having never read Cheever before.
I wish the author had spent more time with the story as opposed to 85% on character background / development, but it wasn't a terribly long book, and the quality of the writing--and what I can imagine it effected when it was published--makes up for the continual thought of 'so, when is there going to be something that actually happens?'
O cafard, essa coisa peluda e negra.Omnipresente, a menos que encontremos uma forma humana, ou local, ou país, ou cidade, ou casa onde o cafard não consiga entrar. Andar a pular de hotel em hotel, de cidade em cidade, ou até percorrendo com ar apressado, mas sem destino, as ruas de Lisboa ou New York.Para tudo voltar a ser maravilhoso, maravilhoso, maravilhoso.Cheever, grande amigo de quem carrega uma bête-noir.
John Cheever's least successful novel is my least favorite one.
Set in the late 1960's at the height of the "God, how I hate Suburbia" trend in American letters, it alternates between oddly shafted suburban satire (a French teacher has a sexy mouth because of working through "strenuous French vowels"), and implied violence, but despite its title, most of BULLET PARK's violence is psychic anguish.
BULLET PARK works best for completionists and American Studies majors.
For top-notch Cheever in novel form, read FALCONER instead: it has plenty so say and is tough to put down.
Great book.
His son, Tony, becomes disillusioned with life and decides not to get out of bed.
Part two describes a sick rich man, Hammer, who searches for happiness in a yellow room.
When the room is painted, he decides to take up his mother's dream of enlightening the world by sacrificing an average WASP within a church.
Part three has Hammer snatching Tony and almost burning him when the Swami saves him.This book was good for many reasons, good stories, good writing, good themes, well developed characters, and more.
Great observations.

E niente.Quando si usa questa locuzione non è mai davvero niente.
C'è sempre qualcosa che segue, e dopo il mio niente, cioè dopo questo libro che è uno di quelli che prendi il notebook, se sei scrittore, e lo lanci dalla finestra perché tu quando mai la scriverai una cosa così, decido di fare seguire un po' di mestizia assortita.
Così, tanto per distrarmi mentre vedo il notebook roteare in aria prima che arrivi sui sampietrini.
Ci posso aggiungere anche un po' di livore, dicendo che il finale non è nemmeno la puzza degli altri nove decimi del libro, ma mi farei tana da solo, e allora è meglio che stia zitto e incassi questa meraviglia di Cheever.
So much was said about Cheever influencing Mad Men that, once the series was over, I decided to read something of his.
But where Mad Men is subtle, Cheever is out there — it would be like reading between the lines of Mad Men's cruelty, violence, sexuality and awkwardness.
And where Mad Men is always perfect in form and style, Cheever is like a bull set loose: magnific, dramatic, impatient to follow his own leads — yet a thrill to watch/read.
Cheever's false steps let us into his writing process, and are always above the average.
Maybe I'm just over so unhappy 1950's suburbs, but I do not like this book.
The main thing I didn't like though, was the writing itself.
When Cheever moved from one character to the next, I felt like he was never going to get back to the main story.
He would go on and on about tertiary characters and we'd never really hear of them again.This is also one of those books that 'hurries up and ends'.
I wouldn't say that Cheever is a bad writer, his descriptions are wonderful.
But he drags and hurries too much to be called a good writer.
Grotesquely funny and full of bizzare symbolism. The part in which Nailles drinks rainwater scooped out of an urn at the cemetery to swallow the pill he's just bought from his pusher must be my favourite image. Come on, that's just genius! Why haven't I bloody read Cheever before?!
1993 notebook: another great American book. The mild adultery, the man sucked under the morning express, the man who knows the different sounds trees make in the wind - larch, tulip, oak. But what good does it do, he thinks? Someone has to observe the world. That's the line, the line for me.
Oprah's been off the air for a year now, but look at what books our culture prizes these days and it's clear we still live in an age where the greatest endorsement a book can get is from TV.
I'm not saying that's necessarily bad: The Art of Fielding and The Rules of Civility are two refined and flawless novels that both came out last year and that both sit unabashedly near the top of my list of greatest books I've read in recent memory.
(Perhaps it's the cul-de-sac the Drapers from "Mad Men" live on, which is called Bullet Park Road.) Part 2, about Hammer's itinerant life, is gripping in tone but nonsensical-bordering-on-bad-gonzo-journalism in style.
(113) Nailles says:It was windy, as I say, and there was more thunder and it looked like rain and the light on the course was failing so you really couldn't see the faces of the men who played through.
When I feel this, I've noticed that if I can look into the face of the stranger and get some clue to the kind of person he is I feel better but, as I say, it was getting dark and you couldn't see the faces of any of these strangers as they played through.
The old adage that each novel teaches you how to read as you go doesn't really ring true here; Bullet Park shifts modes at least twice, making for an .
By the time you're almost done with this novella-like interlude, you realize it's been a wonderful Ford/Harrison-like meditation type thing, but by then it's too late, because we shift again to the third person for a quick summing up of the story.
All this said, the novel is full of great sentences/language, and it was a relatively quick read, though structurally it's pretty thin/messy.
Still, this is the first of Cheever's novels I've read and not completely despised.
Tellement bizarre. Hammer and Nailles. I mean, Jesus Christ. But not.
A man obsesses over a room in a stranger's house falling in love with it, holding it as his only place of quiet and happiness--then settles into the suburbs to murder the boy.
His characters occupy the usual "not all is as okay in the suburbs," which is characteristic of Cheever.
Preventing from taking itself too seriously, the story centers around Eliot Nailles and Paul Hammer.
We do not fall in love--I thought--we re-enter love, and I had fallen in love with a memory--a piece of white thread and a thunderstorm.
My own true love was a piece of white thread and that was so."
