https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1122824.Defeat_in_the_West
For a book this dated I was pleasantly surprised at how good it was. An analysis of the campaigns in the west (1944-45) from the perspective of the German struggle. Complete and utter collapse - absolute defeat - significantly due to the total power and paranoia of Hitler. Just why the German officer corps stuck with him for so long is also addressed by the author. An interesting read.
He also quite accurately predicts the growth of the “myth of the clean Wehrmacht” and hopes that books such as this one, written from the allied side based on intelligence reports and interviews with German officers in prison, will help to stave off its post-War glorification.This, however, serves to call into question Ballantine’s mercenary decision to publish a new edition in 1968.
I would still tend to guard against recommending this book, when so much else has been written about the war and the German command, but it may be worth seeking out for those interested in tracing its popular historiography.
This is a book written fairly quickly after the war and heavily based on interviews and documents from the German Generals who were left that had defended the West.
The most critical assumptions are that the Germans had opportunities to win the war that they failed to exploit.
Maybe that was an opportunity lost, but there is nothing to indicate that doing so would have won the war for Germany.
And while I certainly agree that was a mistake, I don't see that not doing so would have won the war for Germany.
Thousands of books have been written about World War II and I've read quite a few.
The author was part of the team that interviewed German POWs and heard their side of the story about World War II.
The interviews alone are worth the price of this book as the experiences are still fresh in the minds of the German POWs -- experiences that aren't colored by time or revisionist historians.This is a remarkable study of Germany's defeat in the West and a worthy addition to any history or military buff's collection.

Fascinating read
In addition, the author details why Germany was defeated and argues it was due to old stand military traditions coupled with the shroud of ignorance the German fighting men were kept under by the regime.
Despite the positives, and the interesting arguments, the ending of the book indicates that the author has not gotten over the war or his feelings he developed for Germans through it, which leads one to wonder about the bias of the work.
Another side to the war.I will grudgingly accept that this book was written in 1947 and republished in 2017.
A fact that was well known in 1947 but was, by this time, being swept under the rug because no one wanted to hear or read of it.
There were bigger fish to fry by this time.
Namely getting Nazi scientists, who were also war criminals, out of Germany and into the United States before Russia could get them.
A good look from a war stand point but even in 1947 the entire truth should have been told.
I have read a good many books about WW2.
This book is one of the best I have read that allows a general reader to easily follow the flow of the “Big Picture”of events without getting bogged down by too much unit data and push-pull detail of unit action and movement.
Many books that attempt to describe the strategic choices made and some of the tactical moves get bogged down in too much detail.
This book weaves its way through these obstacles in an engaging manner, making this an enjoyable read.
Testimony to war.This book is well written. It concentrates on the German war strategies which Hitler conceived and insisted be implemented. The horrors of the war on the local population, particularly on the Jewish and other minorities are not dealt with in any manner as this is ostensibly a story of how the forces were dominated by a fear of displaying Hitler and how this led to defeat.A very good read.
This is an easy to read book written right after WWII. It covers mainly the Western theatres of the European war although the author does give a very basic outline of the Ost theatre. I found this to be pleasantly easy to read and covers some of the major battles in depth that is not overwhelming yet surprisingly detailed. The maps I first thought were too simple but they got the job done - kind of like this book. Recommend!
Excellent detailed summary of eventsThough flawed by what I assume is a less than efficient proof reading step after reproduction using optical scanning methods (example: General Jodl, not 'Jodi'), this book provides in one otherwise we'll written place a clothe naive summary of the underlying flaws in the German war effort and nation during WWII.. it does a much better presentation of events on the griund during the period from D-Day to surrender.
Must read overview of WW2If you want to read an outstanding single volume "Readers Digest" version of this conflict in Europe, this is it. Couldn't put it down. Would have liked to seen more on Patton and Canadian 1st armys action to secure Antwerp, but so be it. Shows little bias I suppose.
A long book but well writtenYou keep thinking you know most of World War 2 with Germany. This book clarified the type of men the senior German officers were. Dead set on following orders. Few of these men cared about Hitler, just their personal ambition. I always thought many of these men were better military leaders.
Fantastic bookAn incredible and very detailed look at the many reasons for the defeat of Nazi Germany in the west. Punctures the myth of the "good" German soldier. Rommel's myth especially withers, as it should. Von Rundsted and Kesslering appears to have been one of the few with any brains at all.
An excellent appreciation of the war in the west.I found that this book, being extremely well researched, informed the reader of many aspects of the war of which I had seen little of before. The format and detail provided a superb examination of events whilst maintaining the interest of the reader.An excellent book which I would recommend to others
Very good overview of WWII in the WestGood, unbiased account of German Army tactics during WWII. Almost nothing about the German navy and Air Force. Written soon after the war it offers suggestions for what to do with post-war Germany.
One of the best postwar books on the subjectVery well written and detailed book on the German defeat in the West. The only issue I have with the book is in the authors conclusions in the final chapter yet they are understandable considering when they were written.
Very informativeA good read ,on a personal note it took me a long time to read as there is so much information to grasp,but saying that it's a very comprehensive book ,enjoyed it no end
A very interesting read for me, I particularly found fascinating the interviews of german officers shortly after the war and letter extracts from german soldiers in the field during it until the final defeat of the Wehrmacht.
Nothing newThis would have been an excellent book if it hadn't been written so dryly. It just plods from chapter to chapter. Interesting, but dry.
Good readInformative to the nth degree. Shulman's analysis and interpretations add much to understanding this period of history. National socialism failed; Germany didn't.
Excellent book about the defeat of the Nazis on the Western front from the German POV, though since this book was published in 1947 the facts may be out of date.
One of the best!Wow, this is outstanding book. It's page turned from the start. One of the best books on the second world war I have read.
InterestingThis book takes us thru the mistakes of German officer core. However, it does not touch on their willing acceptance of brutality. The book gives the animals a pass.
WWII AccountGood history of the German side of WWII. Very factual and detailed. Gives a good idea of how the Germans conducted the war
Awesome book!I would recommend to any history buff. Kept me engaged the whole time. Great explanation of things from the German perspective!
This gives an interesting take on the German loss of WW2.
Really heavy and detailed account of the Allied armies advance across Europe after Normandy. Lots of details all taken from interviews with German officers conducted by the author immediately after they were captured. Watch out, it's seriously academic and not for the amateur history reader.
