https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825889.1066_and_All_That
Anyway there is no reason to take such existential angst so seriously I recall reading an interview with two performers, a man and a woman who had a show about the entire history of humanity.
The woman took a deep breath "well women plainly what with all the Patriarchy, imperialism, social oppression, warfare," at which point the man interrupted " no, no, you've got it all wrong it was tougher on men because all that Patriarchy, imperialism, social oppression and warfare was just exhausting.
Even in nice bits of London.(9) Why do people want to stay in odd hotels where nothing works?(10) I take my bowl of breakfast outside to walk around the garden in naked feet - I know I should say 'bare' but I have sex on the brain just now - and after a while I realise my feet are freezing and upon further thought I realise the GROUND is frozen.
That the Barons should not be tried except by a special jury of other Barons who would understand.Magna Charter was therefore the chief cause of Democracy in England, and thus a Good Thing for everyone (except the Common People).They subsequently define baronial duties, among other things, as “to hasten the King’s death, deposition, insanity, etc., and make quite sure that there were always at least three false claimants to the throne,” and “to keep up the Middle Ages” (31).
(2) That an eisteddfod was an agricultural implement?” Having just concluded a study of the Wars of the Roses, I found the test on 54 astoundingly cutting in its humor (see also 57-59 and 60, #8)!
This is one of my favourite books of all time; silly, harmless, educated humour at its best.
It plays on all of the English history that you would traditionally have been taught at school and promptly forgotten, presenting it in the slightly hazy jumble stereotypical of someone who went through the education system a little longer ago than they'd care to remember!The humour is reminiscent of Monty Python, as is often said.
Obviously, no real knowledge of history is needed to enjoy this book!It keeps vaguely to the mock-format of a textbook; there are "exam questions" at the end of each chapter, which are just as funny as the chapters themselves, and get progressively more ridiculous as you go on.
A blithe send-up of the sort of English history that was force-fed to generations of Britons. With test questions such as:"Describe in excessive detail: a) The advantages of the Black Deathb) The fate of the Duke of Clarencec) A Surfeit"In short, the more I read of British humor circa 1870-1960, the more I understand where Monty Python was coming from.
These took the form of a wave of Justifiable Wars, including: (with descriptions not included)War with ChinaWar with AfghanistanSheikh War2nd Burmese WarWar against AbyssiniaWar against A ShanteeWar against ZulusAll these attempts having failed, news was brought to the Queen that the Fiji Islands were annexed to the British ‘by the desire of the inhabitants.’ At this point, according to some (seditious) historians, Her Majesty’s lip was observed to tremble.”And Chapter LXII quoted in full“A Bad Thing…America was thus clearly top nation, and History came to a .”
Hilarious, though probably better to read a little at a time, and also if you have some vague idea of real English history. Ever since reading this I have wanted to write an American version, called, naturally, 1776 and All That.
The back cover of my edition of 1066 AND ALL THAT exults: "It merges Clio [muse of History] and Bob Benchley [early 1930's MGM wit]." Noel Coward testified: "I consider it one of the most enchantingly funny books I have ever read." And indeed, this may be the origin of all those parody textbooks and course notes with their screwy review questions at the end.
Another important concept is who in the world gets to be "top nation" and for how long, although this term is inconsistently capitalized.
Well, if I went back in time I would tell her that even with a masters degree and other bits and bobs on the CV that indicate knowing considerably more than average about these things, I didn't get every single joke.
- Look, even here on page two, where it says the Romans "defeated the Ancient Britons by unfair means, such as battering rams, tortoises, hippocausts, centipedes, axes and bundles..." I still don't know what they're getting at with 'bundles', and I wouldn't have understood about the tortoises before I saw a film called Gladiator, which starred an actor everybody else fancied but who I thought was boring and not very good looking at all.
History, these authors point out, isn't really what happened: It's what's remembered.
I'm sure every nation gauges its history by such a standard; knowing when and why one was Top Nation is important for the ego, fragile as they may be.
It's a good book to read to remind ourselves that we're not at all as educated as we think we are, and that we ought to be more humble about our knowledge and about the history we believe our nations possess.
For pheasant, read peasant throughout.
Having recently read extracts from Jane Austen's teenage satirical work The History of England, I thought it was time to re-visit this classic work, first published in 1930.
It relies for its entertainment value on the reader having at some point being taught English history and then having forgotten almost everything that was learned.
Clearly, there's plenty of English history I was never taught, because the references meant nothing to me, even in the bizarre, bastardised form set out in this work.
It will make no sense at all to a reader who hasn't been taught English history at some point in their life.
Love this book. It's hilarious in that dry British way. Please note- it's much funnier if you're already familiar with British history as much of the book is devoted to a willful and intentional misinterpretation of fact.
Delightfully muddled book of English history as described by English people who have not had to pass a history test in quite some time."The Boston Tea PartyOne day when George III was insane he heard that the Americans never had afternoon tea. This made him very obstinate and he invited them all to a compulsory tea-party at Boston; the Americans, however, started by pouring the tea into Boston Harbour and went on pouring things into Boston Harbour until they were quite Independent, thus causing the United States."
I've been aware of this classic for many years, but have only now come across a copy of it. I found 1066 and All That to be fitfully funny; in many ways it's a product of its time and social context, and so is probably most amusing to someone who was a product of the English educational system through to the early 60s. Still, there are some fitfully funny moments, particularly the wry little one liners. ("For pheasant, read peasant throughout.")
A short and amusing volume of all the English history you will ever need to remember, and a clever dig at how history used to be taught in schools. The more up you are on your English history, the more you will appreciate and enjoy it. Some of the one liners are very funny. I laughed out loud lots, so beware of reading it in public places. Highly recommended.
A very enjoyable and humorous look at the history of England.'Henry was afraid his reign would not be long enough for any more divorces, so he gave them up and executed his wives instead. All except Anne of Cloves, whom he had on approval from Belgium and sent back on discovering that she was really not a queen at all but a 'fat mare with glanders''A Good Thing.
This book drove me mental, and I wish it hadn't. I wish I had been able to appreciate its silliness without being driven crazy by all the incorrect dates and facts. I do appreciate what the author was trying to do, but apparently I'm too much of an obsessive history nerd to make it more than several pages into something like this without wanting to tear my hair out. It's a shame.
A history of England done in a slightly silly format. I think you'll only really get it if you know your history. Which English kids are no longer allowed to learn about in case it offends anybody who lives in England but isn't English.
This is one I don't even lend out unless I am sure it will be appreciated. An all-time favourite in whatever edition (the first edition was left in a taxi cab and lost), an absolute riot I found, oddly enough, in the back of a taxi in a strange city...
I have to re-read this periodically because it makes me laugh. And, as I have discovered since first reading it some 30 years ago, the more English history you know the funnier it is. It is a book for grinning and laughing out loud over.
A hilarious history of England that effectively wiped out all the random bits of knowledge I had floating about, and replaced them with something infinitely cleverer, if a little lopsided. :)
It's still funny after first reading more than 50 years ago. I always liked the exam questions but the whole book is a delight.
I can't believe it took me so long to get around to reading this book. Every sentence is a wry, British morsel of comic gold for the history nerd.
One of the funnier books I have read, 1066 and All That puns and parries its way through the Memorable Events of Britannia's history with a degree of aplomb that is wickedly delicious. Five thumbs up.
I picked this up at the brocanterie the other day and I SHRIEKED WITH LAUGHTER for the rest of the day.
I haven't seen a copy of this since I was about 14 - I loved it then, but Horrible Histories were more my jam.
Now I have the knowledge base to not only tell pretty reliably if the fact reported is true, bogus, or twisted, but also to get most of the UK culture/geography jokes.
well, I could probably swap it for our general knowledge section of the exam and not get back answers any more bizarre than the standard.
I wonder if someone HAS been swapping them?
This is one of the funniest books in the English language (see my reviews of Stella Gibbons' 'Cold Comfort Farm' and J.K.Jerome's 'Three Men in a Boat' for the others!).It is a perfect pastiche of British (ie English) history as taught to generations of British school kids from the Victorian era until the late 1960's.
As I progressed through the history curriculum and repeatedly revisited '1066 and All That' I howled even more!Its donkey's years since I last read this but it 'pinged' up on 'Good Reads Reccomends' so I felt I must write a review and then download a copy in order to enjoy it again!
If you don't know your British history inside out I can't see how you'd find this book funny. A lot of things will go way over your head or you'll just not understand at all. What you may know history-wise just isn't all that funny I thought. The "tests" at the end of the sections provide a bit of a chuckle as they seem to poke fun at the way teachers write instructions for tests.Not for everyone.
I think that if I knew as much about British history as the average UK schoolchild AND if I didn't find Monty Python to be just ineffably different from what I think is reliably funny, I would have absolutely crapped myself with laughter. As it was, I came away with a number of pleasant "Oh, ha" moments and a conviction that I'm a total dolt history-wise.
English history fans rejoice! Unless you've read this already; then why didn't you tell me about it? You know those funny histories allegedly written by students ("History calls people Romans because they never stayed in one place for very long.")? It's like that but written on purpose about England. The only real history is what you remember.
