https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1804685.The_Bigger_They_Come
A. Fair, featuring a mismatched pair of detectives named Donald Lam and Bertha Cool.
The series, which was lighter in tone than the Mason series, ultimately ran to twenty-nine books, the last of which, All Grass Isn't Green, was published in 1970.As the series opens, the Great Depression was still under way in the United States and Donald Lam was twenty-nine years old and out of work.
The agency is owned by Mrs. Bertha Cool who inherited the firm from her philandering husband.
Bertha hires Donald and immediately assigns him to what appears to be a fairly straightforward case.
This is one of those wonderful private eye's,sexy women and murder. This is the first of Erle Stanley Gardner's Cool and Lam novels first published in 1939. The story starts with Donald Lam, a struck of lawyer, applying for work with with Cool Detective Agency run by Bertha Cool. It follows the pairs history and Lam's first case which leads to his theory of a perfect crime.I do enjoy this type of story and ranks alongside the 87th Precinct stories.
The essence of the Cool and Lam series is a mismatched pair of detectives, which includes big Bertha Cool (originally 300 pounds but later a svelte 165 pounds) and brainy but scrawny Donald Lam. This novel introduces the two characters and brings them together.
This one is perhaps a bit lighter in tone than later books in the series and, for those of us who didn't start reading at the beginning of the series, it's real interesting to see how the characters started out and what they later became.
In later books in the series, Lam has a real confidence about him and his abilities and even Bertha realizes that he's the real detective of the two.
***.This was the first novel in Gardner’s series featuring the detective firm of Cool and Lam. It is a must-read book (if you can find it) because it provides all of the history of both members of the firm and a review of their individual personalities and abilities.
Gardner is still getting his feet wet with these two characters, and proposes a series of talents for each of them that might come in handy as the cases progress.
This is the first example of how closely Gardner followed the laws of different states to come up with his amazing ability to provide legal talent to his clients under the guise of Perry Mason.
The protagonist and narrator, Donald Lam, is an unsuccessful lawyer who knows many legal tricks, such as how to commit a murder without being punished.
He does not commit it, but he shows how it could be done, because he wants to save an innocent girl he is half in love with.
Well, perhaps two thirds (:-)ESPAÑOL: El protagonista y narrador, Donald Lam, es un abogado fracasado que sabe muchas triquiñuelas legales, como cómo cometer un asesinato sin que puedan castigarle.
Él no lo comete, pero demuestra cómo podría hacerse, porque quiere salvar a una chica inocente de la que está medio enamorado.
to serve a divorce subpoena on Martin Birks.This is one of those rare novels that teaches the reader while entertaining them.
The plaintiff in a California divorce proceeding can not collect any alimony if served by publication in the newspaper or other media outlets.
This is the bet that cost Donald Lam his law license for approximately one year as punishment by the American Bar Association who felt that he should not have made a bet involving a lesson on how to get away with murder.Bertha Cool along with Irene Adler and Miss Marple is one of the women proving that you don't need balls to make a great detective.
While every one knows Mr. Perry Mason, let me introduce to you Donald Lam and Bertha Cool...two of my favorite noir detectives. Bertha Cool is Big, Bold and Larger than Life itself. Donald Lam is more slippery than any weasel out there. The two of them together make one of the best Detective Teams ever. So sit back enjoy and indulge in some classic '30's Detective Stories....
After having read a number of Cool and Lam mysteries, it was great to see how it all started. A great mystery and a great start to the series.
A. Fair (aka Erle Stanley Gardner of Perry Mason fame) is the first book of the Bertha Cool and Donald Lam series and it is their first case working together as well.
Cool's private office last longer than 15 minutes and they all come out looking dazed, confused, or like they're running from a fire.
9)Lam's first assignment is to serve divorce papers on Morgan Birks a man rumored to have wealth from a slot-machine scandal.
Because of his size Lam has had to depend on his wits rather than his brawn and I really appreciate his interactions with Bertha Cool.
This is the first novel in the series about Bertha Cool and Donald Lam, written by Erle Stanley Gardner under the pseudonym A.
Then, of course, someone gets killed…This is only the third novel in the series that I’ve read, and it’s probably the best place to start, as it provides broad context for the other novels.
It tells the story of how Donald Lam came to be hired by Mrs. Cool.
It has some of the best dialogue I’ve read in a long time; and the characters, particularly Lam, are very street wise.
Reading it, it’s hard to believe it was written so long ago.
When Donald Lam walked into the offices of Mrs. Bertha Cool to answer the help wanted ad he'd seen in the paper, he had no idea what he was truly in store for.
With a educated, calculating mind and the backing of his no beating-around-the-bush boss, Lam will spare no expense to get to the bottom of the case.
And though things may seem to take a turn for the worse, appearances can be deceiving; For you see, Lam, trained at a school of law, knows the perfect ploy that can make everything turn out right.
But I liked it enough to try another, and now I've got me a new favorite P.I. The Cool and Lam books don't have the rich prose of Chandler's Marlowe novels, or psychological layers of Macdonald's better Archer novels.
I'd hesitate to say this volume is required reading for taking up the series, but it definitely sets out who the characters are in a way that wasn't clear to me from the other book.What's so special about Lam?
Let's start with Bertha Cool sizing him up:She said, "You're just a little shrimp.
#1 in the Bertha Cool and Donald Lam series.
Debut novel of an unusual PI series written by Gardner, Erle Stanley as Fair, A.A. Ingenious plot in the debut with a pair of oddball, but likeable, protagonists.Bertha Cool and Donald Lam series - Donald Lam is a private detective, 5 and a half feet tall and 127 pounds.
His new employer, Bertha Cool, is sixty-something with grey hair, weighing in at over 300 pounds.
When Lam gets the job he is put to work immediately because if there's one thing Bertha Cool believes in it's getting her money's worth.
His first job is to serve divorce papers on Morgan Birks, husband of Sandra Birks who claims he has been abusing her.
My favorite series as a teenager. Done by a master writer who has sold as many mysteries as anyone. If you like clean reading and mysteries this is a great series.
(I know, it's an earlier time, but better writers, earlier than that, manage to create wonderful real women in their pages)).The plot picked up about 3/4 of the way through, but until then it all seemed like set-up.
Not thrilled, and probably won't seek out the next one.(Note: 5 stars = amazing, wonderful, 4 = very good book, 3 = decent read, 2 = disappointing, 1 = awful, just awful.
I'm fairly good at picking for myself so end up with a lot of 4s).
Erle Stanley Gardner is best known for the legal puzzles and action of his famous Perry Mason series.
But his Donald Lam & Bertha Cool books are more entertaining- from the self-described “runt” Lam (and his brilliant legal mind) to the shrewd and miserly Bertha Cool.
This first story let’s Gardner (writing as A.
A. Fair) explain a loophole in the then CA system that would allow someone to confess to a crime, but be beyond the track of the law.
This is a long time favorite in the series for me.
I was greatly disappointed in this book. I didn't find the tone light or humorous, nor the characters engaging. I love the Perry Mason books, so I had high hopes for this one by ESG's alter ego. It was a quick read, and I finished it, only because I wanted to give it every chance.
A nice diversion.
Není to moc rozsáhlé, je to vtipné a svižně psané a přitom na knížce není vůbec znát "datum výroby". Co víc chtít pro letní počtení u vody?Svěží, šťavnatá a vtipná detektivka.
This is the first in the Cool and Lam series and an amazing kick off point. Difficult to find but worth the look for sure.
I finished the book yesterday.
The last three chapters of the book prevent it from being merged with a heap of those mundane detective pulpy books that flourished in the 20s and 30s.
Mr Gardner reserves his real punch - the spart of genius- till those final chapters.
They do not necessarily contribute to the plot well but it certainly elevates it.
Otherwise, the book is typical of the pulp genre- smart talking detectives, a bunch of ruffians who beat up our hero, damsel in distress..
the whole works.
Its fast paced but not interesting enough, barring those last three chapters.
The first of the Lam & Cool novels, I finally was able to locate this one. Lam shows right away that he has what it takes to make Bertha Cool's agency work. The mystery isn't anything special. It was fairly evident what was going on. The climax of the book rests on an issue of law that wouldn't fly today. However, Gardner was a practicing attorney, so I'm not going to argue with his interpretation of 1939 California law. Not the best of the series, but well worth a read.
If you're a fan of hardboiled fiction, film noir or any overly clever detective novels than look no further than the Donald Lam series. Lam doesn't really fit the mold of the classice Private Dic, but his scrappy attitude and lawful smarts get him both in and out of trouble, love and wealth. This is the firs book in the series where we meet and learn Donald's past. Good stuff that rushes a bit through the best material. Still really enjoyed it.
Me gusto mucho, me encanta como los detectives privados viven bajo otras reglas que para la novela policíaca son ineludibles, son parte de lo que son. Aquí a Lam miente, estafa, le pega, el pega de vuelta, se ríe de la justicia y no pasa nada.Es el inicio de lo que se ve es una muy buena saga
Love these Golden Age mysteries! This one is irreverent, filled with one of a kind characters, and with a suitably convoluted and clever plot
It has different tone and nuances from his Perry Mason series, but it's surprisingly good and doubtless will get me addicted.
This is the first of the series and characters are promising. Novel turns on an odd loophole that allows one to kill someone without being prosecuted.
Written by Erle Stanley Gardner but not nearly the quality of his usual work.
