https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19596.Color
While I liked the content of about three-quarters of the book, it infuriated me at times when the author would suddenly start presenting the material through the eyes of a character, "imagining" their experiences, travels, and accomplishments.
and I'm reading a bullshit paragraph leading me into speculation about "this Corinthian woman's" dating and make-up?I felt the same way about her handling of the character of Martinengo in the "Orange" chapter.
On one two page spread, I think I counted "I imagine", "perhaps", "possibly", "if", about ten or twelve times.This is an irresponsibly stupid way to write nonfiction.
Until it came I was in suspense about how ladies used to poison themselves (by accident) with white cosmetics that were made from lead.This book was interesting not only for the information about colors, but also for the author's travels.
She went to great lengths to get to the source of some colors, and along the way educates the reader about old customs and cultures.
Fascinating book that will fill your head with lots of information that will seem useless unless you appear on Jeopardy some day.
They might have been only shades of orange, purple, blue and red, but those exotic names gave those paints just a little more magic.
Part travelogue, part science text, part art history, part general history, the author has brought together a huge number and variety of facts and experiences and people into this rather large book of 440 pages, not including bibliography, notes and index which together run to another 60 pages!
So she starts at the beginning with the colour of the earth - ochre - the first colour used for art and decoration.
Having an affinity for all things color, I was attracted to the cover of Color: A Natural History of the Palette while visiting the Met one afternoon about a year ago.
I'm sad to say that I found the cover to be the best part of this book.
Finlay sets about the task of researching the origins of the pigments of the paintbox: Ochre, Black & Brown, White, Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo & Violet.
In some regards this book elaborates upon colors.
In some regards this book is a travelogue.
LOVE me a book where I can pick a chapter and read up on what's been taunting my mind - thus I love anthologies and various other collections.in Color, I found a fantastic historical recounting of the who/where/why/what of much of our commonly accepted color palette. And that alone means something, because there is a surprisingly low ratio of 'general citizens' who knows REALLY what color is about, how it's made, how we wrestled/negotiated/bullied our ways into being enjoyers/purveyors of it. Lot's of lessons to be learned....
Through it I’ve come to appreciate just how complex getting pigment mix with a medium of the right consistency and translucency to stick to a surface and dry without fading or changing color over time or to dissolve in water to dye cloth, and again, to stick and not fade.
The origin and history of each color is presented here is interesting but feels incomplete as I would prefer a more broad history rather than the in-depth travel stories presented which leaves me with mixed feelings about this book.
Oh, this book had so much promise! And yet, it fell flat... I was expecting to read more of a history book, but it turned out to be a travelogue/memoir, and a tad too self-involved for my tastes. Moreover, the author does a lot of "imagining" for a work of non-fiction. Damn.
Each color (including black and white) is represented in a separate section, where she weaves stories of fictional and real-life people into her research with entertaining results.
The narrative thread is spider-silk thin for most of the book, and occasionally the reader is overwhelmed with the amount of information presented; but the overarching theme of the discovery and use of color is carried well throughout.
Not only is this book accessible to the general reader, there is considerable scholarship in its pages.
The bibliography covers 6 pages, with the notes section (broken down by chapter) another 13.
Notes On Colors
This was an enjoyable book to read, but ultimately more of a travel book than a book about color. The adventures of the author tend to be given rather more weight than the subject.
Be seduced by the history of pigments. Basically about the author's travels while seeking out the origins of ancient colours. I loved this and gladdened by the extensive notes and bibliography.
Doesn't this look cool? JG is into it. She says it's a fun and engaging read.
He was excited by the opportunity to test his theory that if Tyrian purple contains indigo, then perhaps, like woad and indigo, it needs to have the oxygen removed from the vat before it can become a dye.
They made violet from the shells of mollusks that live along their rocky coast*Violet is made in Costa Rica by squeezing a shellfish until it barfs up the dye which reacts to air by first being a neon green, then yellow, and finally purple
Finlay has managed to keep herself out of the book for the most part, and the stories that were included were historically relevant to the colour being discussed and I didn't end up skipping a single paragraph.Finlay's passion for color and dyes are clear early on, but far from boring the reader her enthusiasm is infectious and I found myself becoming quite excited when she found her first indigo plant or saw a purple field of saffron crocus (used for the color yellow) for the first time.Some of my favourite facts include:- Red was made from the blood of the Cochineal insect, which lives on a cactus leaf- The colour yellow was made from saffron, harvested from the saffron crocus flower, however only 3 strands of saffron are collected from each flower.- In 1775, arsenic was used to create a color called Scheele's Green.
As a somewhat sidenote, this is what I don't like about historical fiction, it generally results in me at a party disclosing some mindboggling facts about something I read, only to realize later when my ass (or brain, rather) is being handed to me on a plate, that it's not true and I had conflated the "historical" with the "fiction".All in all, I still would recommend this book to people who are interested in this topic, I just wish it never strayed from the already interesting stories about the origin of pigments/dyes.
And although I'm not primarily a nonfiction reader, this time it had nothing to do with the book itself or really nothing to do with the quality of the book.
The reason it took me so long to get through the book is because it's just crammed with information, variety of information, from historical to cultural, that it takes a brain some time to process.
Color is something that surrounds us on daily basis and yet receives barely a thought outside of matching, but after reading this book you won't look at it the same way again.
If I were a history buff, I'm sure I'd have found it at least a little bit lovely. But a history buff I am not, and the first 28 pages were some pretty dry reading and gives non-fiction a bad name.
As a part-time quilter (impartial to scrappy rainbow quilts) part-time scientist with a dream to travel the world one day, I loved Finlay’s Colour.
I really enjoyed the mix of travel stories, snippets from history and personal anecdotes while Finlay travelled the world to discover how each colour of the paintbox came about.
Rather than reading it all in one go, this book was great to have on my bedside to pick up and read a chapter or story between fiction novels, if I only had a short time to read, or when my current novel got a little too intense.
This was an interesting book, but it was more a travel memoir than "a natural history of the palette." Another book by the author, THE BRILLIANT HISTORY OF COLOR IN ART, is a far more informative book for learning about the history of color in art.
100% = 5 StarsInteresting! Although long. I learned a lot by reading this, which is a pleasure. It is very much a history lesson although tailored to be entertaining, which is probably a good thing right? You'll learn about all of the strange ways each color of paint was originally developed and used, some being deadly. This is worth reading if you have an interest in the topic. You'll have lots of new 'facts' to share at the local watering hole.
Finlay travels all around the world trying to find out the history of colors (she travels so much you wonder how her publisher could have afforded all that airfare and travel expenses).
She goes to Australia and decides not to try to find out more about the Aboriginal spiritual meanings of ochre out of respect for the culture.
The interweaving of culture and history and color is good and even sometimes great.
Yet, I kept comparing her to Simon Schama and finding her ability to make the history emotional relevant for me sub par.
A mass of information about the natural dyes and pigments used for the seven colours of the rainbow, plus black, white and ochre.
Searching for the main source of lapis lazuli in the world, the mines in Afghanistan, she travels through the Taliban-run country and is able to visit the Buddhas of Bamiyan, whose painted blue auras are the earliest known use of ultramarine, the paint made from lapis lazuli.
Just months later, the two giant Buddhas are destroyed by the Taliban.
Finlay is clearly a natural storyteller, and weaves her personal anecdotes together with scientific fact and historical information to create a vivid and - of course - colourful tale.
However the contents are the same as the other editions just in a more impressive binding (I was lucky to pick this us second hand, there is no way I could afford such a book brand new ) the book after a short introduction to colours how they were incentivised and discovered then breaks up in to a number of chapters ingeniously named after a specific colour.
These chapters cover a colour, it's source and in some cases discovery and where it was used.
I've always been interested in color and have previous read The Anthropology of Turquoise: Reflections on Desert, Sea, Stone, and Sky (****) by Ellen Meloy and Mauve: How One Man Invented a Color That Changed the World (*****) by Simon Garfield.
Those books are very different, one being about natural history and the other about chemistry influencing fashion and ultimately changing a national industry.Finlay's book is also unique; it's a travelogue where she searches for the historical origin of individual colors.
If you are interested in color, I suggest you read it a chapter (or color) at a time.
I learned so much from this book, like . . . the formula for Red is relatively unchanged from the beginning of its existance, searching for the origin of Orange can teach you a lot about violins, Yellow and White are the deadlyest colors, and Green, although the most prevelent in nature, is the hardest color to replicate in paint. This book is also a travel journal, so I felt like I was getting to visit a lot of unusual places as I read. Unusual places, unusual facts, and a broud scope of information. This book was perfect for me.
I have read this book cover to cover TWICE, and recommended it not only to art students but to friends and family as well. Anyone interested in art materials and their origins will truly enjoy. Also, the reading of this book drove m to want to learn even more and so I have read certain books in the bibliography as well (most notable, "The Art Forger's Handbook" by the late great forger Eric Hebborn).
On her very first page, she recounts the story of when she was taken to Chartres Cathedral as a child and being fascinated by the light streaming through the gorgeous stained glass windows.
Her travels are fascinating and always give us the human element of where these colors have come from, so this book can be shelved almost as a travelogue and less as a scholarly paper on the preparation of color for artists' purposes.
3.5
I agree with many other reviewers who didn't like the fiction inserted into this "non-fiction" book. A few bits were interesting, the rest was not so much.
Michaelangelo, who could not wait for blue pigment to arrive from the east and never finished his painting since the virgin mary could only be painted in that particular blue.Then there is the travel element, another thing I love.
Only one thing puzzled me somewhat; in the chapter where Victoria goes to the Lebanon searching for the murax shell that was the source of the Phoenicians purple dye, and their wealth....
A meditation on the origins of different dyes and paints through human history, this book seems mostly to be an excuse for the author to travel to exotic lands and harass the people living there.
She talks to Aborigines about ochre, Mexican fishermen about purple, experts in Chinese pottery and Incan textiles and Spanish crocus growing.
There's a lot of painful history, including poisonous paints and slave-grown indigo.
A lot of cool factoids, as well.But at the same time, I had the growing sense that the author was being self-indulgent.
She interviews a man who tried to help the Aborigines and failed and whose life is blighted as a result.
