https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129399.Napoleon
His intent, as he conveys it in the afterword of this volume, was: "To examine this man's inner life; to explain his resolves and his refrainings, his deeds and his sufferings, his fancies and his calculations, as issuing from the moods of his heart - the disclosure of this great chain of affects, was at once the means and the end of the portrayal." Ludwig's biography of Bonaparte is the most renowned of these offerings and often idles, like an eccentric teen, at the fringe of the dance floor that is the Napoleonic canon.The edition I have here is eighty-seven years old, and looks it.
نابليون يقدم لنا لودفيغ سيرة ذاتية غنائية، مكتوبة بنفس ملحمي معدٍ، للفتى الكورسيكي الذي ارتقى بذكائه وشجاعته ليصبح رجل أوروبا الأول، نابليون ابن العصر الجديد الذي أرعب أبناء العروش والسلالات الملكية الأوروبية، بطل إيطاليا وغازي مصر وروسيا، صاحب أوسترليتز وبوردينو، وصاحب ليبزج وواترلو أيضاً، الرجل ذو الشخصية الحالمة والواقعية بشكل متداخل مربك، هذا ما يقدمه لنا لودفيغ على اتساع 700 صفحة، لا تكفي للإلمام بشخصية نابليون بل تجعلنا متعطشين للقراءة أكثر، فغنائية لودفيغ تجعله يتجاهل التفاصيل أحياناً، ولكنها لا تجعله ينسى أخطاء نابليون وعيوبه.
Let me keep it short, and pithy; as they say.I don't like this book for two reasons: 1) No references! Flare in Napoleon's eyes or a slight indignation of his mother: all surmised from some unknown source. And 2) The writer goes on doing psycho-analysis of Napoleon for no apparent reason. Not for me.
Hablaré primero del estilo del libro, lo único que critico al autor es haberse tomado la libertad de escribir soliloquios (cosa que a mi parecer resta autenticidad), también encontré complejo leer y seguir el curso de la historia sin la introducción constante de fechas, personalmente a mí me gusta colocar los hechos en el tiempo, aunque el autor escribe que su intención era más bien retratar el alma del personaje sin tanto tinte histórico estricto, entonces dependerá de los gustos de cada lector y lo que busca.
Masterpiece....Until this book, i have no idea about Napoleon. Of course heard a lot of things but accuretly never know him. This book help everyone to know who is he.When i read critics about this book, many dislike about lack of sources. I hate notes when i read books. Books always written like a water flow.Emil Ludwig write this book like Zweig wrote about Fouche.
The book is filled with direct quotes as Napoleon had secretaries taking down his thoughts throughout his life.
He is born in Corsica, second eldest and in the French military.Socially awkward, aware of his lack of status, he reads all of the historical greats-Alexander, Caesar, Charlemagne.
He takes power aster the revolution and slowly becomes like the Bourbon kings…giving his siblings countries to rule.
His surprisingly self aware and at times consumed by his ego.
Russians burn their cities and retreat leaving no supplies for the French soldiers.
Finally Napoleon divorces her to gain an heir.
The heir is his blind side.
Ludwig tells us in a kind of afterword that his biography "may give the impression of being a work of pure fancy" but goes on to assure us that he clings "to the framework of historical truth." True, the intimacy and immediacy he has wrought with Napoleon is at first questionable, but is in the end (actually not all that far from the beginning!) acceptable and appreciated.
Ludwig is no unbiased observer, but he balances his obvious admiration of Napoleon with honest assessment of his flaws.A bit daunting at 682 very thin pages in very small type, and written in an initially annoying present tense, the book is well worth the effort I had to expand.
Napoleon was born on the island of Corsica. He went to France because France took over Corsica. He had a strange accent. His spelling was terrible. He defeated Egypt, Spain, Italy, basically all of Europe but Great Britain. He tried to be a good general but failed because of having too much power.
Top of the line
An excellent biography, the prose is heartfelt but the objectivity of the narrative is no way disrupted.
I had a hard time putting this down. I don't know how accurate but it certainly gives you a sense of what his life may have been like as emperor if France.
33rd book read in 2014.Number 213 out of 377 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EGjDi...
Far from the becoming boring like most books of its kind, this one kept my interest going from the first page to the last with Napoleon's quotes and his letters to Josephine.
back home when they wanted to send another general to help him.A book that every youngster must read to understand the mettle that great leaders are made of.
It is said that the ship carrying Napoleon to St. Helena after the battle of Waterloo was docked in Dover en route.
So great was the curiosity of the man that all those who heard of it made their way to the dock to get a glimpse of him.
Great.Few times you can feel the sour taste of the french writer whose country was conquered by a foreigner. Great in all senses. I think the writer shows us what he saw within all the amount of historical documents he could access. The spirit and soul of a militar-stadistic-genius human being.
Biografía fundamental.
A fascinating view into the man's motivations and thoughts relying on Napoleon's own correspondence (both official and personal) that consisted of over 60,000 letters. It was a little difficult reading through some of the book covering events relevant to whatever point in Napoleon's life was being examined, but that was more due to my own prior knowledge of those events.
Really puts the knife in with brutal frankness. Not wrong either
A very good account of his life. Not many details about specific battles, but good balance between military, personal and political issues.
I thought I knew quite a bit about Napoleon but I was stunned at the very beginning of this book to learn that he was not French.
What a fascinating man Napoleon was and what an interesting style of biographical writing this Ludwig book is.
Emil Ludwig was famous for being one of the first biographer's to combine both historical fact and fiction in an attempt to convey the personality of his subject to his readers.
Ludwig concentrates on the man and his family and quotes heavily from Napoleon himself.
So they stabbed him to death.In Napoleon's case it was unacceptable for the kings and emperors of Britain, Russia and other European kingdoms.
It showed a bad example that a man that has no nobility can rule France and become emperor of Europe.
It showed a bad example for their nation.
He had to die.Apart from the will he had left, Napolean left a 12 page assessment of Europe to his son.
I wish to read these paged, now that i am finished with this book.A must read book, a must read person in history.

Napolean is such a figure for me because of emotions and psychology that I imagine was behind the extraordinary arc of his life: the magical heights he reached as an Alexander like Emporor of the world, to his lonely exile on St Helena.
However Ludwig’s is not the psychological study that I had perhaps hoped for (for that, read Vincent Cronin's 'Napoleon'), but it does provide an immensely readable scaffold upon which it is possible to visualise Napoleon’s undoubted talent, and also the insatiable lust for power that characterized his life, and which made his exile such a cruel, in the end untenable, burden for him.
An interesting quote from Napoleon: "The infamous practice of flogging men to disclose secrets, must come to an end.
The only result of torturing people in this way is that the poor wretches say whatever they think will please their captors.
I forbid the use of means that are equally repugnant to humanity and reason."the man that took archaeologists, poets, and scientists on campaign in Egypt had his own utterances transcribed often.
Those were quotes and imagined soliloquies illuminate this epic life, for instance "I prefer open enemies to untrustworthy friends.
"Napoleon's life is among the most examined and written of in Western civilization.
An excellent biography of a man who disappointed his admirers and betrayed the Revolution. His motives appear to be good but his methods caused the deaths and displacement of millions and the wholesale destruction of the countryside. Such a waste of one with so great a mind.
This biography on Napoleon is great. Well written and easy to read and at the same time through and long enough to provide an analysis of the life and accomplishments of a the man full of energy and imagination that Napoleon was.
I read the RD condensed version of 252 pg. It was just a straight up, factual account of his life in the spotlight until he got sent to Elba and then again to St. Helena. Then we got to read more about what he thought about his life as he slowed his pace, so we could see what made him a great mind.
Napoleon was so crazy he thought he was Napoleon.
Napolean by Emil Ludwig (1926)
quite informative but very long winded and biased
Otra biografía del emperador francés. Ludwing renovó el formato de la biografía, haciéndola más amena al escribirla a modo de novela. Descriptivo, completo pero a veces un poco romántico.
