https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7060582-twice-bitten
Ethan once again involves Merit in what she terms "shenanigans." This time they're going to be involved with the shifters.
I'm interested in seeing what the future holds for the shifters.I liked the progression of Mallory and Merit's relationship.
It was Ethan and Merit's relationship progress.
I thought this would be the book where Ethan and Merit finally got together.
I ended the book horrified that I would have to wait a whole year to see what happens!Even thought I wasn't pleased with what happened to them, I still liked the fact that we got to know Ethan so much better.
SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS!Dear Ethan Sullivan,You don't really know me, but suffice it to say I have a standing interest in Merit's Happiness.
I'm not sure I can wholly support a liege who harms his house, his sentinel, the women he pines over; and trust me, we ALL know you pine over her.
Unacceptable my, lord.
Unacceptable.
You humiliated her in front of the ENTIRE house, I do hope you realize this.
I hope she steers clear of you from now, until you learn a valuable lesson about Merit, and about women in general.
You need to find your humanity, and your humility my liege.Regards,A House Vampire
I'm glad Ethan was such a jerk. Merit is entirely too kick-ass for him. I hope Neill sets up a new love interest for her in the next story and Ethan is out of his mind with jealousy. Take that Darth Sullivan!
Not only that, but he expects Merit to continue training with him, helping him, and generally spending a lot of time with him.
oh look, Ethan, here's a gift for your Asshole Day party!But, the thing that really bugged me the most was how Merit put up with all of that crap.
The storyline going on while all of this is happening is that Merit and Ethan are helping the shapeshifters pack leader by providing security at their conference.
The leader is a married man who thinks it's okay to call Merit "kitten" for some reason.
3.5I enjoyed the first book in the series so much I figured it would turn into a new favorite, but the second let me down a little.
The third continues what the second did, worth reading but not worth overly praising.Like many books, it started weaker and kept growing stronger, but took awhile to build up to an arresting point.
Most of the things that plagued the second continue here, namely not enough tension in the plot.
I have the fourth to read, and will see from that one if I'll bother continuing the series.
Perfection! There's not much more I can say, just get a copy and read! Actually, get all three books, they really need to be read in order. :)If anyone from marketing takes a look at goodreads...I want the original Merit back on the cover for book 4!!!
For anyone who hasn't started the series, while this is the best book so far, these are definitely not stand-alones and should be read in order.{ Merit, Whom I For Once Did Not Want to Kill }I was finally able to actually enjoy Merit, instead of constantly wishing someone would bash her over the head (was that just me?).
Instead, he became, for lack of a better word and honestly no pun intended, human to me.I completely understand his internal conflict regarding Merit and I think it's far more realistic than if he had pulled a Bones and was 1000% committed from the beginning (not to slam Bones, whom I adore).
Right up there with the Kate Daniels and Mercy Thompson series for me so far. Maybe a smidge behind, as I tend to love the humor that comes with those. But Merit is one kick ass chick, and the other characters are winning me over. Ethan...not sure what to think about his wishy washy, uber powerful ass, but I'm definitely along for the ride.
A. Amazing!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!B. Bite me! ~sigh~C. CatcherD. Drama E. ETHAN !!F. fighting, fighting and more fightingG. GabrielH. hurtful I. IDIOT!!J. Jeff :DK. KatanaL. LoveM. Merit (& Mallory)N. NickO. O-positiveP. PizzaQ. QuestioningR. RGS. SEX ~ finally!!T. Trouble U. Unity V. Victory W. Wishing X. marks the spot! Y. YoungZ. Zsnarky (ok i cheated!)This book was soooo great. I CANNOT wait for the next one. There were too many funny things and sweet things and romantic things and emotional things. GREAT BOOK!!
The author has developed a compelling paranormal world which quite an interesting theme, that of vampires that have been “outed” and how they try to live openly amongst the human race.One of the things I found annoying in the first two books was Merit.
I even began thinking that these two would never get it together.So when I began Twice Bitten, the 3rd installment in the Chicagoland Vampires Series, my thinking was…..what next with Merit & Ethan???
I have always liked Ethan Sullivan, sexy, mysterious and uber cool Master Vampire and here we get to see another side to this gorgeous man..oops..Vampire!!!!
Sorry, guys!I'm too addicted to write a review for this right now!Must... Read... The... Next... One...
This is a review of books 1 - 3.I don't really know why I read these books besides the fact that I really needed some fluff after some recent happenings - and I also wanted to explore the urban fantasy I so often make fun of.
The characters fill every urban fantasy cliche in existence from the tough-as-nails protagonist to the vampire that is hotter-than-holy-hell and everything in between, topped with a nice dash of overly-prolonged sexual tension.
I guess that sort of thing works though, as there are tons of urban fantasy fans out there.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Ah man*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱   Re-read: 30.01.2018 Love the ending. However, it seems like my love for this series has diminished. Maybe I have become too picky and annoying. I don't know, but what I do know is that I hate myself for no longer loving it. It's not bad though. BUT - yes a huge but - I somehow started picturing what this series could've been if Ethan was merely a love interest, but her soul-mate was Gabriel... Wouldn't that be something? God I'm going mad. I'm going to bed now.The charact
I'm going to bed now.The characters:— Caroline ‘Merit’ ‘Mer’ ‘Kitten’ (Gabriel's nickname for her) Merit (becomes vampire at 27, but is 28 in years), Sentinel of the Cadogan House.— Ethan ‘Liege’ ‘Darth Sullivan’ Sullivan (394, though became a vampire at 30), master of the Cadogan House.—Mallory ‘Mal’ Delancey Carmichael (27), Merit's bestfriend and a fourth-class sorcerer, a master of the First Key; power.— Charles ‘Chuck’ Merit, Merit's grandfather is the Ombudsman; a ‘liaison’ between the regulars and the sups.— Chuck's team: his secretary, Marjorie (50) (though we haven't met her), the computer prodigy and a shape-shifter,  Jeffrey ‘Jeff’ Christopher (21), and a fourth-class sorcerer and a master of the Second Key; weapons, Catcher Bell (29).
Arguably my favourite in the series for many reasons. Super happy fun naked times being one of them.
"You undo me, Merit. Wholly and completely. You don't take me at my word. You challenge me at every opportunity. And that means when I'm with you, I am less than the head of this House...and I am more than the head of this House. I am a man." He stroked my cheeks with his thumbs. "In my very, very long life, I need you more than I have ever needed anything." Eeeeeeep finally! That's all I'll say on that note. The sexual tension, the angst, the battles, the jealousy-boy oh boy was I in my elemen
Love was very definitely a bitch.They don't need only a boy and a girl circling each other to fuel the events of the book-there's always a mystery, always a need to save or protect or serve the house.
I finally got the last in my long wishlist of Ethan wants and needs-protectiveness.
"And I need you, Merit."So to say this wasn't my favorite one would sound a bit odd, but, I think it's a tie between this one and book two.
I'm on book four and I just love their dynamic-I really do.
I can't wait-but I also want this series to stay excellent.
This is my first 5 stars rating for a vampire's book.Guess you want to know why, right?
I'm okay with that.Would she want to forgive him?
I'm okay with that.Would she want to stand Sentinel and forget about her love?
✔ She is proud - in a good way, as an opposite of a let's kiss his ass way of acting - and her decisions are brave and - how can I say that - smart?
You don't even know how tired I am right now.*whisper* I think I am in a love/hate relationship here.
Guess I love him.
❞Do you know why I love this series so much?
“We know the sorcerers are beginning to see things, that prophecies are beginning to bubble up. Prophecies of war. Of coming battles.”   Finally we find out what the RG on the mysterious cards Merit has been receiving means, and who has been sending them to her. (view spoiler)[The Red Guard, and orginazation whose main job is to keep Master vampires and the GP members in check, has offered Merit a position in their Guard. They want her to spy on Ethan, to assist them in their work. And when war
And when war comes, they want her to leave her house, and to fight beside them.
Luckily Merit also got her backbone back in this book, and I loved the way she acted exactly like the meek and respectful vampire Ethan always wanted her to be, and how mad it made him.
Well done, Merit :-D Also for once Ethan acting like an ass, had some benefits.
I also loved Merit’s fellow vampire members, especially Lindsey and the other women who supported Merit after Ethan acted like a jerk again.
It had everything in it that made me fall in love with the first book!!..the suspense, the action, some very funny dialogue, the drama!...oh...the drama!!!!..and the romance...~sigh~Ethan~sigh~FROM BEGINNING TO END....it was ALL there..there was NO slow first half for me this time...just constant thrill and excitement!
I will admit though that there was a point in this book that had me full of doubt...and DEPRESSION, but THANK YOU CHLOE NEILL!!!...she pulled me right out of that funk and now i am now so thrilled i can't even see straight!!
The next book will be coming out in May..and it can't come soon enough!!!
Reasons why I love this book:- Well developed paranormal world- Intelligent, no-nonsense, highly sarcastic characters with great dynamics- Vampire / shifter related storyline with mystery, suspense and lots of action - LONG-AWAITED HOOK UP BETWEEN MAIN CHARACTERS!!
It’s exciting and action-packed, but even with all of that going on, it is the Merit / Ethan hook that, for me, is the most exciting thing to happen in this book.
(hide spoiler)]The characters from the previous books all make an appearance, and I love the smaller storylines that continue to develop.
I love this series so much.I'm not describing the book because most of my goodreads friends already read it and that's not what I do on my reviews anyway.
She just knows how to kick ass without bragging about it.I like a lot that with every book she is a bit more powerful.And then there's Ethan.
I just LOVE Ethan!
I know most of you were frustrated with him because of his actions in this book but I really wasn't, well not at the end at least.
But, Chloe Neill, know that if in the next book I don't get more romance than this I will be extremely pissed.
I know he had his good moments and is learning, but I'm not so enamored by him that I wasn't annoyed and angered by his behavior.
I see so many readers gushing about how sweet he became at moments in this and how he opened up, and although I liked that as well, that doesn't change the fact he acted like a jerk.
I know he probably didn't even realize that he was acting like a jerk, but he better make it up to her!
(view spoiler)[Chloe how can you give me my ship and take it away so fast?
(hide spoiler)]~~~~Full review to come.
fus·ty /ˈfʌsti/ [fuhs-tee] –adjective, -ti·er, -ti·est.1. having a stale smell; moldy; musty: fusty rooms that were in need of a good airing.2. old-fashioned or out-of-date, as architecture, furnishings, or the like: They still live in that fusty, gingerbread house.3. stubbornly conservative or old-fashioned; fogyish. Number of times I've encountered the word fusty in my 19 years of schooling and 27 years of life: ZERONumber of times I've encountered the word fusty in the first three books of this series: NO LESS THAN TWELVE.Nevertheless, enjoyment to the max.
a lot better this time around five stars all the way
After reading  Some Girls Bite  and it's follow-up  Friday Night Bites , I've come to adore Chloe Neill's new urban fantasy series. Not only does Twice Bitten continue the Chicagoland Vampires series's winning streak, it ups the ante.Picking up directly where the second book left off, it's two months after Merit made the change from human to vampire and became the Sentinel of her new house, Cadogan. Although she still struggles - with lust as well as the fighting - during her physical training s
, I've come to adore Chloe Neill's new urban fantasy series.
Not only does Twice Bitten continue the Chicagoland Vampires series's winning streak, it ups the ante.Picking up directly where the second book left off, it's two months after Merit made the change from human to vampire and became the Sentinel of her new house, Cadogan.
Merit's learning to balance her duties, adjusting to her new life and forming solid relationships with her fellow novitiate (initiated) vampires.
Urban fantasy series often provide us with heroines that come ready-made to kick ass.
Ya her şey iyi güzel hoş da, yazar bildiğimiz şeyleri her kitabın başında tekrarlamasa daha iyi olurmuş. Her seferinde önceki kitaplarla ilgili özet okumaktan ciğerim soldu ve daha 3. kitaptayız kdjdj
In the first book, I liked Mal. A sassy friend with her own transformation to bear, she provided a nice touchstone to the human life Merit had to leave behind.
Then she got a man, the friends had a fight, and Merit and Mal pushed away from each other.
As Twice Bitten began and Merit lamented the damage to their friendship, I suddenly realized something: I didn’t care about their drama.
She’s got fabulous ideas and interesting characters; she just needs to step up her game and make the whole of the story match the thrill of her resolutions.
Or maybe it's that Merit is my kindred protagonist.
And there are a lot of Ethan-Merit shenanigans in this installment.This book was about three (or maybe 2.5) things.
The third theme revolves around Merit's complex feelings and loyalties toward Ethan, and by extension to her house.A couple of my absolute favorite aspects of Neill's storytelling are how comfy her dialogue is and how easy her character interactions are.
Paranormal and completely natural, hows about that?Okay, I'd better stop this Chloe Neill-Merit love fest.
^_^ And be aware that you'll likely be itching for the next book immediately upon finishing this one.
Just sayin'Merit kicks ass.
This vamp gal knows how to fight, eat, play, love and party.
Love her and Lindsey & the Vamp Crew.Morgan is still an ass.
That's the best part about starting a series later than everyone else.And I finally got to know one of Merit's secrets.
Nice.This book was a filler novel but a darned good one.
As for the plot twists, well, I figured out some things (like the surprise in the epilogue) while others were a pleasant and interesting turn.Until then, kids, it's more Chicago Vamps for me.Toodles~
I was a little bored at the beginning but then Ethan started acting like a dumbass and shapeshifter intrigue started happening and I got pulled in. I'm interested enough to read the next book.
Before reading this book, I recalled how I came across this series.
I've never heard of it and did not read any reviews when I decided to purchase its first book Some Girls Bite.
I am always happy when I find a book on my own and influence friends int o reading.
It is really awesome that I found this book and my bloggers friends seem to love it like I do.Since this book has not been released yet, I will try to avoid spoilers as much as I can.
A more up close and personal profile of Cadogan House, Master Vampire, Ethan Sullivan.
