https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/714807.The_Golden_Goblet
Somehow Eloise Jarvis McGraw makes Ranofer, the main character, easily relatable without turning him into a kid that thinks, talks and acts like a twentieth century American kid who happens to be living in ancient Egypt.
To me, that's one of the most annoying things about historical fiction: the author tries to make the main characters more likable by making them just like us, no matter what century or continent they lived in.
I especially respect the level of writing here.
This is a pretty advanced children's book, with detailed descriptions of Egyptian life (especially goldsmithing and stonemasonry).
This was not the first time I read this out loud. I liked the book but my student loved it. He liked it much better than its companion Mara, Daughter of the Nile by the same author.
Exciting and thrilling, The Golden Goblet is by far one of the most exciting books I have ever read. Even though I read it a year ago just for fun, it still gave me the goosebumps because of how descriptive the author is. When reading this book, for the second time, i realize how slow it is in the beginning and I feel like I get it a lot more when we read it together. Another thing is that I don't really think that the title matches the book and I think it should be called Ranofer's Life or something.
The main character is chased rather quickly through a tomb and then escapes (low suspense during the actual chase).
I had to be creative to engage students in the story, thankfully they were motivated by ancient Egypt itself.
My students did not relate to Ranofer, the main character, since he was an orphan mistreated by his half brother but they did sympathize with him.
I do believe the book shares a lot of Ancient Egypt history in an interesting way (versus a history book).
Overall I felt I struggled through this novel as it did not keep my interest.
#geography #africa #ancientegyptCleanliness:Children's Bad WordsMild Obscenities & Substitutions - 5 Incidents: stupidName Calling - 40 Incidents: The pig, the son of Set the Devil, Accursed One, Useless One, scum, Worthless One, stupid, Fatherless One, Homeless One, ingrate, brats, Slow-witted One, Spawn of Crocodiles, Tardy One, idler, donkeyhead, Imbecile, fool, lazy clod, son of a jackal, riffraff, Cursed Ones, Mad One, Rash OneReligious Profanity - 23 Incidents: By Amon, Osiris the Merciful forbid it, Thoth’s mercy, as Maat is my witness, “For the sake of Ptah the Bearded!”, Great Ptah’s whiskers, Holy Mother Mut, "Why in the name of Amon", Oh, Mother of Amon, Great Bast’s whiskers, Hathor’s mercyReligious & Supernatural - 10 Incidents: Mentions khefts (evil spirits) and bas (good spirits) throughout the book.

I found it very interesting, it started out slow, but you have to give books time!
Mrs, Bushkin, my English teacher, recommended this book to our class.
The Golden Goblet started to get more and more interesting as I read on.
The main characters in this book fitted their roles perfectly, Ranofer, one of the protagonists, was brave, determined, and kind.
On the other hand, Gebu, the main antagonist, was very nasty!
Interesting and intense, the plot kept me on the edge of my seat the whole story.
The ending was a bit of a disappointment, but that is okay, I still enjoyed this book and would definitely recommend it!
I think I'm cheating a bit when I let myself click 'read'.You see, this book was assigned in my 7th grade history class to read outside of school.
this book is so boring, I would rather skim over some of it & take the D.The day of the test came around, and some kids had stayed up all night, reading this dang book, too scared to accept the bad grade like men!
Most people failed the test.
The teacher even let some people re take the test, but to no avail.
ohhh junior high memories :)In conclusion, the book is boring & slow.
The Golden Goblet, by Eloise Jarvis McGraw was a fantastic book. Beautifully and elegantly written, the author used such wonderful descriptions that made the book that much better. While reading this book with my class, I enjoyed the action and suspense that the author offered. I would definitely rate this book five out of five, it was such a fun book to read, I wish there was a sequel.
This book was fairly interesting with many cliff hangers and good vocabulary. But, the downfall was many problems without a suitable solution. Since I like pleasing endings, this book left me unamused. Adventurous and edgy, this book is a page turner that grabs your attention, but the beginning is a bit of a bore. Although, it is a book you need to try once in your life.
I wish I could give this book more than 5 stars! I read it aloud with my kids, we finished two weeks sooner than we were supposed to because we truly couldn’t bring ourselves to stop reading it. We were sad when it was done because we felt as if that meant we had to say goodbye to friends.
My mom read this book to me as a child, and I enjoyed it just as much as I remembered!
Ranofer also makes observations about the daily life of the Egyptians, from the importance of the Nile to the harvest of papyrus to the food they eat.
Ranofer is constantly making reference to the different gods the Ancient Egyptians worshipped in the way that the people of that day would having, noticing omens from the gods or wishing the gods would do certain things to bless his life.
Mummification and death are also discussed in context with how the Egyptians would have dealt with it, which is what most children are most familiar with, and most interested in, when it comes to Ancient Egypt.
When I read about Ranofer, Heqet, and the Ancient spying on Gebu and whenamon, and them telling one another one what they heard that day.
Finally I think this story was about how perseverance is a great trait to have because Ranofer had that trait in him and he got a donkey like he wanted and he stopped his brother froming steeling stuff from the Queen's parents tomb.
Also friendship is a great trait to have because in this story without friends Ranofer would've never have been able to keep spying on Gebu and wenamon.
With suspense and excitement, this book really kept me reading.
The only part that i didn't enjoy about this book was the first six chapters.
To be honest, it was one of the most boring six chapters I have ever read in my life.
Yet, the chapters after that made up for all the boredom.
Chapters seven and on were the most exciting chapters of my life.
Ranofer could finally turn his evil stepbrother in, enabling him to live a abusive-free life and be apprenticed to a master goldsmith.
This should definitely be a book all sixth-graders should read!

Have you ever wondered what life was like back in ancient Egyptian times?
The Golden Goblet by Eloise Jarvis McGraw is a fascinating story on a boy's point-of-view on ancient Egypt.
This book was well written, and for sure a page-turner, full of suspense.
Although the beginning was a little slow, some parts of The Golden Goblet just won't let you put it down, and for all the right reasons.
At these certain parts, the book is very intense, and is a perfect example of what the beginning is missing.
This book is a for sure recommendation for the high-level reader in you,
The book Adventurous and additive and boring at parts.
But over all its a pretty nice book.
We read the book for a class project and when we where at chapter 8 i was already done with the book it was so good.
Honestly towards the beginning of the book it was very slow and boring but closer to the climax the pace picked up and then there were huge cliff hangers that just left me on the edge of my seat.
Also its dramatic book like Ranofer's parents are died and he has to fend for himself when he was left with his evil step brother.
Amazing and addicting, I didn't want to stop reading this book. Despite the slow start, this book became mysterious and full of action. As Ranofer tries to get through life with his evil half-brother, suspense build as does danger for Ranofer. This book had so many cliff hangers that you won't want to stop reading.
This book is great if you are learning about ancient Egypt. It shows the life of Ranofer, young boy, living a difficult life with his wicked half-brother Gebu. Persevering and hopeful, Ranofer learns to survive in the hands of evil Gebu. To be honest, the book is not very exciting in the beginning, but the end the book is a page turner. I couldn't stop reading!
Adventurous and exciting, this book intrigued me from the very beginning. At the end of each chapter the author wrote great cliffhangers that made you want to read more. The author wrote lots of VSS's and changed the sentence structure to keep the book going. Reading this book, I realized that it contained many themes. I highly recommend this book if you love suspenseful and exciting books.
The Golden Goblet by Eloise Jarvis McGraw is an exciting, deeply detailed, well plotted, and filled with characters you will fall in love with. This book is a real page turner, when you begin you can't stop because of the cliffhangers hidden within the book.
I have now read this book aloud to my kids twice as part of our homeschool curriculum. They have all enjoyed listening to the story, and we appreciated experiencing a bit of a culture very different from our own.
A pretty good historical fiction set in Egypt. I really enjoyed it - it's one of my favorite settings, and it had a great mystery.
This is just what Rainofer does to Gebu in The Golden Goblet by Eloise Jarvis McGraw.
McGraw wants the reader to take away the lesson that one should follow their dreams and become whatever they want to be.The main characters of this story are Rainofer and his evil half-brother, Gebu.
If the author used more literary tricks, such as dramatic irony, similes, and metaphors, I would probably have found the book more interesting to read.I would recommend this book to anyone interested in historical fiction.
It takes place in Ancient Egypt, so anyone who is interested in this time period might enjoy the book.
This book was suggested reading for my children’s history class.
There are some things I can wait for - assigned reading is not one of them.The book began slowly and we all felt dumped into the middle of a world where we couldn’t get our bearings.
One loved it so much that when we had a pause 30 minutes before the conclusion she found the book I’d purchased and read it to herself.
This daughter is not the greatest fan of reading books as it takes too long.
This book was recommended as suggested literature to study from The Well Trained Mind.
As we are using The Story of the World, Vol 1: Ancient Times, it fit right in.
A young boy, a mean step-brother, dreams, new friends, and missing gold set the stage for this journey back in Egyptian times.
It didn't take long (3-4 chapters) for her to change her mind.
We both looked forward to this being part of our school day and some days read more than one chapter as we couldn't wait to find out what happened to young Ranofer.
The Golden Goblet was required reading for this school year, and we finally got to listen to it on our road trip. We really enjoyed this book, it has a lot of adventure and the end is the perfect amount of suspense. I had read this book as a young person, but didn't remember it, so it felt like I was hearing it for the first time. I highly recommend this if your students are learning about ancient Egypt.
Loved the ending! Nice pairing to use when teaching about Ancient Egypt
A read aloud for school. It was a bit slow, so we listened to the audio. The kids enjoyed it though.
