https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73297.The_Scarlet_Thread
The Scarlet Thread by Francine Rivers is NOT my favorite book.
This novel actually is a story within a story, telling the story of Sierra along side the story of Mary Katherine.
How He pursues us, and uses our choices and decisions to call us to Him. How He is always there, waiting for us to turn to Him at our lowest point, when we feel the most insignificant and always loving us, even when our determination is to have nothing to do with Him.So even though this is not my favorite book by Francine Rivers, this is one that has a permanent and prominent spot on my bookselves.
Personal preference, but I was horrified when the husband up and announced they were leaving their home, moving somewhere "glamorous", and putting their house of ten years up for sale.
Immediately following a very choppy first 40 pages, they're walking into a beat up 2 bedroom and their older children (a boy and a girl!) are sharing a room.
Really, I'm ranting and raving to my laughing husband at this point, but it gets BETTER- remember, I skipped the 300 pages because it was an infuriating story line, and I've already called it; I tell my husband she's going to decide him being with another woman was ALL HER FAULT.
Scarlet thread ⭐I dont know how she makes me fall in love with the characters so quickly. Everything she writes is pure gold. She is a rich white girl, he is an average hispanic boy. Their parents dont approve but love is love an unstoppable love. They get married and start a family and everything is perfect. That is until that unstoppable love sees reality in the harsh world.
Scarlet thread ⭐️I dont know how she makes me fall in love with the characters so quickly. Everything she writes is pure gold. She is a rich white girl, he is an average hispanic boy. Their parents dont approve but love is love an unstoppable love. They get married and start a family and everything is perfect. That is until that unstoppable love sees reality in the harsh world.
I just read this book for the second time - I think it's a good portrayal of what can happen in a marriage when both parties are selfish.
One of Rivers' (as well as many other "inspirational fiction" writers) trademarks is using one phrase several times in one book - for nit-picky readers like me, that can be a death sentence.
I think if Mary Katherine had spelled "baby" as "babee" one more time, I might have put down the book.
The book kept me interested; Rivers is a good writer.
I'm seeing a disturbing trend among Christian fiction where husbands engage in extra-marital affairs and it's always, ALWAYS ends up being the wife's fault!! ALWAYS! Plus, the women ALWAYS end suffering and losing everything, (pride, dignity, self-esteem), and the husbands get off with no more than a slap in the wrist. And not only that, it's the wife who always ends up apologizing to the husband because it's their fault the husband had an affair. Unbelievable!! I'm all for love and forgiveness but really, where is the justice in all of this?
The author is clearly making the point that it takes two to cause problems in a marriage and that blaming each other rather than working towards reconciliation is not the Christian response.
It is not clear that the only way is through Jesus and His death on the cross.I didn't read the part about a character suggesting that someone who had died may have been saved without knowing jesus due to being sincere which I read in another review...I would have objected to that as well.I don't recommend this as it is so long and full of arguing back and forth.
In particular, I love how she points on at the end that the final patch is a stone wall with a red thread coming down, representative of Rahab, one of the woman in Jesus' lineage (a harlot) and the rope instructed by the Israelites that she would need to hang from her window in order to be saved - neither woman had been a prostitute in the book, in the typical understanding of a prostitute.
How can I allow God now to change my heart into one after His own?#6 I think I need my own community: Another character in the book, Aunt Martha, is reflected on by Mary (the woman/relative who made the quilt and wrote in a special journal outlining her life roots and her trip across the Oregon Trail).
It is as though Heaven itself beckons them and we must all cross hell to get to it.’Set across different centures, The Scarlet Thread follows the lives of two women who are joined through an old, tatty journal as they each grapple with their husband’s ambition.Twenty-first century woman Sierra Madrid is less than thrilled when her husband Alex announces that he has accepted a job offer which means they must move hundreds of miles to Los Angeles.
It’s only when Sierra submits herself to God’s plan for her life and learns to forgive and be reconciled with Alex that she understands what the scarlet-embroidered quilt means.I loved this book.
The most interesting parts of her books are people's conversion stories.
Yes, I believe in some of what she's saying, but do I really thinking my marriage is a "three way love triangle with God"?
God is sovereign!" Not to overly complain, but the two stories that are supposed to be "woven together" don't actually have much to do with each other.
I felt like I was being told what the book was all about, instead of (to use an old writing cliche) being shown what was going on.Not her finest work, and I'm not sure I'll be reading any more.
I am facing an upcoming move with my husband, and a friend of mine saw how much I was struggling with it, and she gave me this book to "help." She had the best of intentions (I think).
While the story was completely captivating (I read it in 2 days), and I felt so attached to the characters, there were a few prevalent themes to this book that really bothered me.
3. Basically, this is just another perpetuation of the terrible concept that women have to take a constant backseat to their husband's wishes, desires (he "needs" love, so will get it from his 26-year old office assistant?), and emotions.
I could certainly relate to Sierra, her feelings about moving across country away from family and the life that they had established in her home town.
I could also relate to her husband's need for adventure, feeling like he needed to better provide for his family and follow his dreams.
I don't think it is always easy for a wife to follow her husband.
In light of the fact that Sierra didn't appear to be a Christian at the time, or at least had not had a personal relationship with God, it is even more understandable that she would feel the way she did.
I read this book every time I have moved or go through some sort of big change. The theme of God working through all things is a very encouraging one for me.
So I started this book way back in like May or something, on the Kindle app, and totally forgot it existed until a couple days ago.
hahaAnyway.This was a really good book.
Like, the climax for me was kind of way before the actual intended climax and then what I think was the intended climax was vaguely anticlimactic.
(Kind of like the structure of that sentence.) I'm not well-versed in Technical Writing Terminology, though, so what do I know.Maybe closer to three stars just for personal enjoyment, but I do really, really love the heart of this book.
The other woman a side note of hatefulness (especially in her affair as well as the way she treated his son), the heroine she was at times a pill...but I rooted for her thru most of it...UNTIL she actually was "sorry" for the sin she committed against the slut who was sleeping with her husband....uh....
This guy slept with another woman, during his marriage, left his wife for said slut, demanded a divorce, verbally abused the heroine from the middle of the book until near the end, BLAMED the wife for his children being upset with him (his son hated him).....
I rated this two stars because I didn't think this book was bad and deserved one star.
I knew exactly how the book was going to pan out from the first 50 pages and I was spot on.If you have nothing else to read then this novel will do but please know it is nothing like Francine Rivers' previous novels A Voice In The Wind or Redeeming Love.
QUESTION: Sierra's mother said she couldn't find anything regarding Mary's son, Joshua.
She didn't mention anything else regarding her other 4 children so I was confused why she pointed out Joshua.
Originally posted on Creative Madness Mama Originally published in 1996, now refreshed with a gorgeous new cover for 2012!
Read from June 08 to 09, 2012 — I own a copyReading the slight description blurb for this book does not even begin to touch on what all is inside.
This Creative Madness Mama had the God-timing to accidentally pick this book up after a very frustrating disagreement with the Enginerd.
This review was originally posted on Creative Madness Mama
Sierra is the modern woman who is battling marital problems while Mary Catherine McMurray is Sierra’s ancestor who was forced to make a journey on the Oregon trail.
But as her writing progressed, her spelling also improved as well as her character and relationship to God. By reading Mary Catherine’s journal, Sierra was able to find answers to her problems as well as find comfort that her struggles are the same with her ancestor.I love that The Scarlet Thread is a tale that centers on issues about marriage, of the little things that seem harmless at first but would eventually contribute to its destruction such as unresolved conflicts and miscommunication.
On the other hand, I'm not sure how I feel about the message of the book- I feel like the woman was blamed way more than she should've been.
Yes, in Christian marriage, the man is the head of the household, but he is still supposed to consult his wife before major decisions and get her input and advice.
Maybe if after the move he had remained a loving and kind husband and father, then I could agree with the author that the woman needed to change her behavior.
Overall, I did enjoy reading this book, but felt uncomfortable with some of the messages the author seemed to portray.
It tells the story of Sierra Madrid (a name I found painful to constantly read), a woman who has it all until her husband decides to take a new job in a city far from their hometown.
You can feel the wounds the words inflict, and that is hard to go through as a reader.
The first book I noticed this "talent" in was Her Mother's Hope, and at least in that book the pain was worth it in a good story.
In this book, the redemption doesn't bring nearly enough soothing to those wounds that the reader has taken, in some degree, with Sierra.
After 13 years of marriage, Alex decides on his own to leave his steady job for an opportunity in California as a video game designer.
I particularly liked reading the part about the issues in the contemporary marriage.
The author beautifully shows the parallels between Sierra’s and Mary Kathryn’s journeys.
They both are bitter and resentful towards God at the beginning but as he works in their lives, they come to see his love, faithfulness and goodness.
I think this would be an excellent book club read because of the marriage issues and the spiritual journey.
Mary Kathryn’s is a pioneer woman struggling on the Oregon Trail and Sierra is a modern day wife that was also moved from her northern California home to LA.
They find troubles in marriage, anger and not trusting God. Sierra finds her many greats ago grandma’s journal and reads.
It is through the journal that Mary Kathryn helps Sierra’s with her struggles and Sierra finds what is old is new or rather is there ever any new?
I can’t wait to find more of Francine Rivers’s books.
I think it may be a Francine Rivers summer for me she is that good.
I kept thinking these people had such sad lives, and I was hoping that it would get better.
As the book went on I got caught up in their characters, and how a life without Christ could be like.
I kept thinking, "if they only knew God".
It really hit home to me because I used to be that person who held on to past hurts, and kept myself in my own pity party.
It wasn't until Christ came into my life that I was healed from that.
This book really hit that point home to me.
I loved the book.
It's about two women, one in the present and one in the past.
One woman dealing with having to travel the Oregon trail.
The other woman dealing with her problems and having to move to another state in the present.
Both women moving from their homes and having to find a new way of life in another place.
Both women dealing with anger and resentment and how they find their way and let go of it.
The book compares the two women back and forth.
I enjoyed this book.
This was our March book group pick.
5+ ⭐ I Listened to the audiobook. Beautiful Story. This was exactly what I needed at this time I grieve my Dad's passing. This story inspired me and made smile. I picked this book up to read at the right time. The narrator was excellent.
5+ ⭐️ I Listened to the audiobook. Beautiful Story. This was exactly what I needed at this time I grieve my Dad's passing. This story inspired me and made smile. I picked this book up to read at the right time. The narrator was excellent.
I enjoyed this book quite a bit but this was one situation when I wished that the heroine would leave the hero and find love elsewhere (Ron!).
If not for those two instances, I’m not convinced that the hero would have left her so going back to the heroine ended up feeling like his second choice.I also wanted to add that I genuinely enjoyed the heroine’s personal journey (even though it was centred around her spirituality).
I just wish that she ended up with nice guy Ron who had a thing for her.
I have read books by Francine Rivers before and this one is as good if not better than her others I have read.This books is two stories rolled into one - one of an ancestral generation and one in the present day.Both are amazing to read. Francine puts you right in both stories like your right there.Recommended for all to read. Great lessons on forgiveness, love and putting God first before everything else.
No one likes change. That is, no one who doesn’t have a say in what is changing. However, there is a Source of comfort we can all run to when life is falling apart. Sierra’s life is ripping at the seams and happens upon a journal and quilt from one of her ancestors. Could this be a key to what she is missing in life?
Excellent book on redemption and forgiveness. A picture of a Christ centered marriage.
Soul searching book This book spoke to me in a personal way. Through it God spoke to me and showed me things He wants to do in my life.
What a journey! This one was epic!
