https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80336.Distinction
Bourdieu is getting high praise here on Goodreads and, no offense, but did you read the whole thing?Now, don't get me wrong, if I were to teach a class on aesthetics, the first chapter, an absolute masterpiece, would be required reading.
As even Bourdieu points out (pg 99), you don't need his dubious data to reach this conclusion, it merely follows from the premise of his argument which you can accept or reject.Beyond that: Have you ever gotten into a barroom conversation in which someone has said something like "Statistics just tells you whatever you think you already know."?
God, how I hate this bastard. And, god, how smart he is. I have quibbles with his methodology and instrument and the wholesale applicability of his findings outside L'Hexagone, but fuck. I might prefer Thorsten's Midwestern flair and more straightforward style, but Bourdieu has a lot of potent things to say about the myth of the natural eye and the way taste encodes and propagates social, cultural, and educational capital. You will never look at your preferences, favorites, and consumption the same way again.
The problem is that the data is all quite old now and so unless you are particularly interested in how various social fractions of the French class structure reacted to life in the 1960-70s … you get my point.I’ve been trying to work out how to write this review – you see, the problem is that there’s a bit of a back story to this book and I don’t want to just assume you understand Kantian aesthetics before I start.
Bourdieu disagrees and wants to show that taste is anything but disinterested – rather it a stake in the game of life, it is used by the different social classes as a way for them to assert their own distinction.
تا اونجا که لازم داشتم، حدود یکسومش، رو خوندم.خدا هیچکس رو اسیر این مترجمها و ترجمههای چپندرقیچیشون نکنه! بلند بگید آمین!
تا اونجا که لازم داشتم، حدود یک‌سومش، رو خوندم.خدا هیچ‌کس رو اسیر این مترجم‌ها و ترجمه‌های چپندرقیچی‌شون نکنه! بلند بگید آمین!
The analyses, however, are as sharp as a whip and provide insight into any modern Western society.Bourdieu delves deeply into the relationship between money and culture; why the upper class is more cultured, why certain demographics have different attitudes about culture—through art, music, fashion, literature, and everything else.
Bourdieu calls this relationship of class and taste “habitas” and describes it in detail through the lenses of different subcultures.Taste is essentially a device by which classes can be stratified; attitudes about taste (like the “snob” attitude of the rich and “smug” attitude of hipsters) are used to declare class and reinforce a social hierarchy.
Only read the beginning and conclusion. Lots of interesting ideas here, but my internal statistician is wondering how he could draw such wide-reaching conclusions from a single set of surveys.
As one reader previously wrote: "sometimes I wish Bourdieu knew what a simple sentence was." Or something like that.
The point is, Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste is ridiculously dense and stuffed the very brim with analyzation and graphs and information, and reading it can be hell, but also really interesting.
Just a few pages is enough to give the reader perspective and allow them to think a little differently about things.
Distinction explores the word of taste within individuals and what social class they come from.
I sort of enjoyed this book.
Damn, it's better than you'd think to have someone tell you how bullshit the way you and everyone you know does life and how you need to watch out for internal fascism!
lol
Bourdieu looks at cultural productions--- art, music, books ---and asks which social groups regard particular authors or painters or composers as "theirs": in other words, defining points for membership in a certain class.
Aesthetic sensibility, he argues, is the means by which educational and cultural capital are converted into class markers.
An aristocratic bloodline has been replaced by the 'aesthetic sensibility' as a way to define entitlement to deference in society.
Taste, Bourdieu argues, is a social weapon.
The ability to 'know' what is aesthetically, culturally defined as 'superior' is a way of excluding outsiders, of reminding those without access to cultural and educational capital that they are outsiders.
It's dated, overlong, and the prose is convoluted; however, the insights into the social construction of taste are thought provoking.
How much of our preferences are due to class envy, education, or economic circumstances?
The final chapter, on Kant's  Critique of Judgment, shows how even so-called pure aesthetics is "grounded in an empirical social relation," how pleasure itself becomes part of the way "dominant groups...ride roughshod over difference, flouts distinction, [and] reduces the distinctive pleasures of the soul to the common satisfactions of food and sex."Bourdieu also makes prescient comments on the tendencies of statisticians and sociologists to create artificial dichotomies and ends up suggesting that intellectuals may not be best placed to comment on bourgeois and working class taste.
Pierre Bourdieu in Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste offers an ethnography of 1960s French taste. Largely, based on interviews, the research illustrates how taste is inherently judgemental and a product of, to use, Bourdieuan terms, the habitus and individual agency acting within the ‘cultural’ field. Intervieews answered questions based on preferences in taste, opinions, and something close to Bourdieu’s heart- institutional pedadgogies and knowledge, regarding movies, a
Pierre Bourdieu in Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste offers an ethnography of 1960s French taste.
Bourdieu uses empirical quanitative data to think epistemologically about how particular (French) classes discern and distinguish themselves between others.
He conceptualizes the notion of cultural capital, which values non-economic and immaterial accumulation: education, language, judgement, and values.
However, in the theorization of everyday life, taste and how the bourgeois maintains dominance, he (almost) re-creates a T.S. Eliot version of culture perfected and marked by religion, formal education, and tradition.
In defining the term Habitus and developing his field theory Bourdieu focuses a lot on class but I find the power of his anthropological and sociological terms beyond a class classification.
Class definitely impacts the illusio, the Habitus, the capital but the fact that all individuals are cable of 'being' in their own predictable and unpredictable ways makes class a structuring power not a defining one.
In fact, not even class can predict the way an individual makes use of his own field in the positive and negative sense alike.
Not an easy read but one that gives a strategic way of thinking about being within the structured society of different fields and powers.
La música que escuchamos, la ropa que buscamos, cuánto disfrutamos la comida y la bebida, y cómo calculamos que nos beneficia el cuidado de nuestro cuerpo son decisiones para nada personales, sino determinadas por factores anteriores a nosotros —«ilusiones de subjetividad», las llama el autor—, y de los que incluso al querer escaparnos somos irremediablemente predecibles.
No es por casualidad que, cuando tienen que justificarse, se afirmen de manera enteramente negativa, por medio del rechazo de otros gustos: en materia de gustos, más que en cualquier otra materia, toda determinación es negación; y, sin lugar a dudas, los gustos son, ante todo, disgustos, hechos horrorosos o que producen una intolerancia visceral ("es como para vomitar") para los otros gustos, los gustos de los otros.
This book is a classic for sociologists, but not many have been able to read the entirety of it.Bourdieu's ideas on the concept of 'taste', and the driving force behind it (spoiler: the economic field and the struggle of the classes within), were (and still are) quite revolutionary, despite the clear influences he refers to (Marxism, Robert Merton, etc).
Despite these many examples, you might have trouble getting through the book.
What helps in this regard is to read a clear synopsis written by someone else (I wish I were kidding!) to grasp the main ideas behind his theory and its concepts.
He also seems to be lumping academics in that category at times as well, in that they create and reproduce cultural capital (although in the first chapter he calls them - with some accuracy - "pedants.")For anyone who really wants to understand distinction (discrimination) and taste - how sensibilities are naturally identified, communicated, cultivated, presented, and pursued in the formation of culture - this book will not yield much.
Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste is a both dense and interesting book.
Due to how long the book is it covers a lot of good points, as well as go into great detail.
It was nice because while reading this you won't feel cheated from any information but in my opinion, it was a little much.
I was originally very discouraged to read it because of how long it was but the concepts were interested and the author truly knew what he was talking about.
The book is full of charts that relate to the text.
This is my second exposure to Bourdieu...the writing is a little rough, but the ideas are really quite provocative and interesting...his general way of looking at the world is to suggest that we have dispositions that come from our class upbringing (he calls this the "habitus") and that these dispositions define our tastes.
This is interwoven into his two-by-two matrix that talks about the difference between cultural capital and economic capital.So in the book he is describing the results of a massive survey of French society, and talks about how tastes in items such as music, food, etc.
systematically vary by social class.
Ah, this is my over- simplification of Kantian concept of taste and beauty, so please correct me if I am wrong, Kantian scholars and disciples.Meanwhile, the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu asserts that the tastes of social classes are structured on basis of assessments concerning possibilities and constraints of social action.
To possess cultural capital means to have a marked advantage for social action, providing access to education credentials, occupations and social affiliation.By assessing relationships between consumption patterns and the distribution of economic and cultural capital, Bourdieu identified distinct class tastes within French society of the 1960s.
This book is the reason that I started learning sociology. I read a small part of it, in a class during a school visit to the university, and I fell in love. Five years later and I'm in my last year of my bachelorate studies in sociology, hoping to get into a position in the sociology department of some university. In other words, this book is my childhood, I grew up on it and with it. Although, for this reading, it was rather long, it did live up to the expectations. I can't recommend this book enough.
It's impossible to read this book and not see the social world differently. You'll find yourself thinking about the world around you in terms of the book's analytical imagination. Its effect is deep and lasting, and sometimes revolting. The reading has the consistency of peanut butter-sticky and dense. The abstractions come fast and the clunky prose is unrelenting. But the effort is rewarded many times over in deep disclosures of the social world around.
A little hard to get into at first, but it speeds up as you delve into Bourdieu's research. You will likely question the relevancy of his theories in modern society, and at times feel uncomfortable with what he is saying. He really does come off as a smug elitist, but - for better or worse - some of his points still hold true today.
yeah - I can see why this is quite influential.
I am interested in an American Christian rehabilitation of the arts, which I think must begin with a complete divestment of ourselves from Kant's third critique.
Kant's specter haunts every corner of all of our theories of art and he desperately needs exorcising.
Insofar as Bourdieu does this, I think this book is hugely important and another in a long list of Marxist critical theory that desperately needs a thorough treatment in Christian cultural critical circles.
I would love to see someone take a digital humanities approach to this book: I know that most of the huge concert venues keep demographic information on their ticket buyers for marketing purposes.
"Craftsmen and tradesmen specializing in luxury, cultural or artistic items, managers of fashion 'boutiques,' retailers of 'famous maker' clothes, traders in exotic garments and jewels or rustic objects, record dealers, antique dealers, interior decorators, designers, photographers, restaurateurs, managers of trendy 'bistros', Provencal 'potters', avante-garde booksellers, all those vendors of cultural goods and services seeking to prolong the fusion of leisure and work, militancy and dilettantism, that characterizes the student life-style, use their ambiguous occupations, in which success depends at least as much on the subtly casual distinction of the salesman as on the nature and quality of his wares, as a way of obtaining the best return on a cultural capital in which technical competence is less important than familiarity with the culture of the dominant class and a mastery of the signs and emblems of distinction and taste.
Self-awareness never felt so invigorating and disparaging. This work is incredibly dodgy statistically, as explained by other reviewers, yet it is a compelling representation of the way that academics see the world and, most likely, justify their place within it.
Intro
Stumbled upon Pierre Bourdieu while reading for the thesis and have to say he makes sense for some extent.
Truly, deeply awful writing. However, really useful, expansive theory that is going to be relevant to my own research.
o	Siz de Simmel’deki gibi dilediğiniz duygusal duruma geçiş sağlamak için müzik dinliyor, sistematik şekilde huzurlu, hüzünlü, isyankar hissetmeniz için düzenlenmiş müzikleri parası veya gigabyte’ı neyse satın almak istiyor olabilirsiniz.•	Alfred Schutz’a göre, müzik sosyolojisi bir müzikal deneyim okuma işi, bunu müzikal deneyimin fenomenolojisinde birleştiriyor.
Bireylerin herhangi bir durum/eyleme karşı hangi anlamlar yüklediklerini belli kodlara göre çözümlemek gibi, müziksel etkileşim biçimleri de fenomenolojik yönden çözümlüyor.
•	Pierre Bourdieu’ye göre müzik bir kültürel sermaye işi.
Ama tek bir konunda ricacınızım, müzik benim tutkum, müziksiz yaşayamam ve müzik büyülü, müzik gökten indi tavırlarınıza karşı müzik sevmiyorum dediğimde bana öyle garip garip bakmayın.
