https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2168860.One_Foot_in_the_Grave
Like Austin Powers taking a giant shit in my Guilty Pleasures review, or my reoccuring use of the word 'balls' in my Shiver Review?Well, the theme and word for the day is buttsecks.As in: I was innocently reading One Foot in the Grave by Jeaniene Frost when the two main characters suddenly had buttsecks.Now, I'm a shameless, wanton hussy with super magical slut powers, just like any other girl, but some things just kind of throw me off.
5 Life's a bitch and then one stabs you StarsFirst read 2/22/2015Reread 11/20/2015*Spoilers* "I know you left me because you thought you had to protect me, that I couldn't handle the obstacles before us. So you tried to get on with your life because you believed it would never work between us. But you see, I couldn't get on with my life because I knew we could work. I've been looking for you every day since you left me, Kitten, and I'm sick of being without you. You've had your shot at things, n
You've had your shot at things, now let me have mine."-BonesYay Bones and Cat are back in, One Foot in the Grave, the 2nd book in the Night Huntress series.
At the end of the last book, Halfway to the Grave , Cat leaves Bones to protect him , and her mom.
When Bones tells her that he has been looking for her since the day she left him, that he still loves her and that he isn't going away, because she is in danger, She loses all her fight and takes him back.
4 1/2–Chapter 32! Need I Say More–Stars I love this book. I love Cat and Bones. They are quickly becoming one of my favorite paranormal couples. The only reason this book isn't a 5 star read is because I had a hard time staying engaged in the plot during the first 9 chapters. Frankly, I was bored out of my mind until the author stopped dragging out Bone's reappearance into the storyline. Other than that, One Foot in the Grave is a fantastic, enthralling, and sexy as sin read.
*yawns*Cat is bordering on pathetic; she took the same last name as her former lover, she got the same tattoo on her hip, she hasn't slept with anybody since Bones and she spends her days snapping nasty comments at people, and thinking of Bones and his tongue.
Things like Cat 'forgetting' she was half naked while she paraded around for everybody to see, the completely ridiculous impromptu marriage (basically they cut their hands, slapped them together and said "by my blood, let's do this shit"), the OMFGICANTLIVEWITHOUTYOU romance...
I don't know if Jeaniene Frost planned all along to do what she did in ONE FOOT IN THE GRAVE, the second installment of her NIGHT HUNTRESS series, or if she adapted after reader feedback .
*tips hat to Frost* *admires ingenuity*Four years in which Cat has time to grow and mature, to accept herself and her abilities, to come to terms with her new reality.It makes for an infinitely more likable Cat. Oh, she's still not perfect.
The night when Bones is determined to show Cat that he wants no one but her .
BONES DOES IT AGAIN!!
Bones has some of the most humorous lines I’ve ever read in paranormal romance books.
But I have to hand it to Cat because she had the best line in the whole book:“You know that old saying.
Once you go dead, no one's better in bed.”  I love Bones & Cat together because I know I'm in for a fun adventure.
My only fault I had with this story was the beginning of the book because it lacked Bones.
Once Bones showed up I was all in.
Here lies Cat. Killed not by fang, but Ferragamos.”Bones trying to prove that Cat still has feelings for him, (page 112)“It was if you were sending me a bloomin’ valentine.”So if you like bad-ass, butt-kicking heroines, uber sexy vampire heroes, and a fun paranormal/urban fantasy romance with a terrific mix of thrilling action, dark humor, and hot sex, give Cat and Bones a read...you won’t be disappointed!
Verrry big 5 stars!*One of my very top favorite PNR reads ever!*A top favorite PNR series!*Cat and Bones are my favorite romance/PNR couple!*Bones is my all time #1 top favorite hot bad-boy vampire hero!
4 years ago, Bones made a promise (a threat? a friendly reminder?): “If you run from me, I will chase you, and I'll find you....” Cat never expected to see him again. She had tried to push him away in order to protect him, but she never liked what she did. They were together for just a few months, but she still loves him. Now she has an important job to do in the Homeland Security Paranormal department. Not very different to the one she used to do when she was working with Bones. She still plays
Having a beating heart, nobody suspects that she is half vampire.Fate will bring Bones back to her.
When Cat’s best friend gets married, Cat will be surprised to learn that the best man is Bones.Bones and Cat “shockingly” (yeah right) will be together again, but this time there will also be lots of jealously in their relationship.
There will be Annette drama.There will be Tate drama.Cat will prove to be a badass possessive half-vampire (
)Bones will prove to be a cheeky bastard possessive vampire master (
Take your time reading it and better read it when you are alone…
But without boy-toy Bones, she is lonely and there's some friend who just hangs around and tells her to get some: "“Dazzle Noah with your drinking skills, burn his ears with your language, but try to have a little fun with a guy you’re not intending to kill by the end of the night" I had some high hopes for Denise, her introduction into the supernatural world really set up some possibilites: “To her credit, she hadn’t screamed, fainted, or done any of the things a normal person would.
The first book literally revolved around Cat and Bones stabbing the shit out of vamps.
A good read, but nowhere near as gripping and emotionally involving as the first Night Huntress installment.I had tons of fun readng One Foot in the Grave because of the wit, snarkiness, and generally funny moments all over the book. This one resembled the last book in that way. I've picked out some of my favorite quotes/passages: "Life's a bitch and then one stabs you." Just like old times, I thought ironically. I look like a slut, and Bones is my backup while I go after murdering fang-bangers.
A good read, but nowhere near as gripping and emotionally involving as the first Night Huntress installment.I had tons of fun readng One Foot in the Grave because of the wit, snarkiness, and generally funny moments all over the book.
I look like a slut, and Bones is my backup while I go after murdering fang-bangers.
I expected better from Cat.My biggest problem was Bones and Cat's relationship.
I'm glad Cat and Bones are so perfect for one another, but it doesn't motivate me to keep reading.
If no obstacle can create serious conflict in their relationship, then why should I read about it?
4.5 stars! Another fantastic reread! While I don't love it as much as the first, it's a solid follow up to an amazing book. I love Cat and Bones, and that one scene. YOU KNOW WHAT SCENE! Omg, if I had virgin eyes they'd be flaming in my skull right now because of THAT scene. Anyways, ignore the horrible covers, this is one of the best PNR series out there.
I read this terrible follow-up to the dreadful vampire novel, Halfway to the Grave a few weeks ago while I had my brain locked by a sad event.
I could only read this kind of books, where any sign of intelligence from my part was not needed.
Even the “infamous” sex scene that all the reviews were raving about was a bit meh.
I understand that the sexy bits are the most important parts of a paranormal romance but I also expect an interesting story, something that does not make me want to puke.
That last point being awesome when you have a sexy character like Bones as the love interest.People may say Bones is a complete rip-off of Spike from Buffy, and they're right - he is.
Still, I don't feel right giving 5 stars to a novel that is, when all things are said and done, just a really good and really smutty Buffy fanfic.But I do also like the way Bones can be caring without having to play the over-protective male.
Like I said before - smutty fanfic.So this book, in fact this series, is not perfect.
4.5 Stars!On to the next one!
And once he steps back into her life you know she's toast.There's lots of violence and some grisly scenes involving some bad vamps (I'm in awe of Jeaniene Frost's wicked imagination), but there's no skimping on the romance.
And just when you think you've read it all and had enough, Frost throws a big fat curveball at the end and provides some more "ghoulish' entertainment that would make Stephen King proud!Well, I could go on and on about all the entertaining sequences in this book, but what I loved the most was the staggering love between Bones and Cat--they are without a doubt my favorite paranormal romance couple.
My tastes and standards have changed a lot just in one year!The first half of this book is basically what has Cat been up to in the 4 years she blew off Bones and joined a secret government group that hunts rogue vampires who kill humans.
Cat is their leader and thought she was saving Bones' life by leaving him and disappearing.
I never liked the secret military storyline.
Cat slut-shames someone in this book, just like she did in the first one.
I just don't know what he sees in Cat, really.
Bones tells Cat he loved her the first time they met.
This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books.I am having a lot of fun with my audio re-read of this series.
I ended up listening to the whole audiobook in just a couple of days and I think I liked the book even more the second time around.I do have to admit that I had a bit of a rough start with this book.
Maybe by the end of my re-read of the series, I will love her just as much as Bones.There are quite a few really important developments in this book.

Cat was still the kickass vampire hunter Bones taught her to be.
I really enjoyed the jealousy Cat and Bones felt when it came to their exes.
But it did sometimes become too much when all I really wanted was more moments of Bones and Cat together.
I think Bones really does make the series for me, that's how much I love this beautiful vampire.
I didn't know Bones could do those things, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I'm not sure if it was because there weren't as many scenes with Bones and Cat just talking with one another about them together.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Bones is awesome*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  Second re-read: 06.11.2018 The second book in the series starts with over a four years gap since the previous book ended. Half-vampire Catherine ‘Cat’ ‘Cathy’ ‘Kitten’ ‘Commander’ ‘The Red Reaper’ Kathleen Crawfield (27) is now working for the government after making a deal with them. The only one who know who she really is vampire bounty hunter/hit man Crispin Phillip Arthur Russell III (Crispin was his human name) ‘Bones’ (245? 246?), who Cat left behind in ord
Oh and I love how (view spoiler)[Cat and Bones are now married in the vampire world.
(hide spoiler)]→ Tate Bradley (late twenties), had been a sergeant in the Special Forces, a very select unit of them, is now on Cat's team.
(view spoiler)[Dave gets killed by a vampire and at end of the book, Rodney and Bones make him a ghoul.
(view spoiler)[Since Cat's father, Maximillian ‘Max’, is a member of Ian’s line and still under his protection, any attack against Max would be the same as an attack against Ian in the vampire world.
CAUTION! This (audio)book may lead to poor decision making, hazardous driving, and collisions between cars & trashcans.  Yep, this book is  that  good! I still maintain that the trashcan came out of nowhere... ;) One Foot in the Grave begins four years after book #1, Halfway to the Grave ends. Cat is working for a secret part of the government being a badass ass, killing vampires everyday, you know, the ushe... Things are pretty rocky with Bones & the story begins with us not knowing ho
Things are pretty rocky with Bones & the story begins with us not knowing how/when we'll get more of our favorite undead hunk.
Cat is in danger, there's a price on her head and everyone wants the infamous "Red Reaper" dead.
It was pretty entertaining to see Cat & Bones's possessiveness.
Even though I love how Bones gets under her skin, I really hope she ends up coming around at some point.
I loved Bones just as much in this one, but Cat not quite as much.
I loved this book!
The plot moves smoothly, the writing is sharper and wittier than the first book, there is oodles of action, the love scenes left me shaking.
Mostly in part because Cat has spent the last four years as a federal agent, training her own speciailized team of vampire killers for a little known branch of Homeland Security.
Don't get me wrong - the guys on Cat's team are funny, interesting characters who I hope to read about again in the near future.
But I read these books for one reason and one reason only: Bones.
Cat has also spent the past four years trying to adjust to her life without Bones.
I was looking for something non-boring to read, and decided that since I loved this the first time I read it, I’d read it again.
So many people seemed to get the drop on her though, even if she did get them back eventually, that I wondered how she stayed alive on her own for so long!The storyline in this was about Bones and Cat’s relationship, as well as she vampire politics, and Cat’s job as the red reaper.
It's full of tropes, totally predictable, a little cheesy, but still:Yeah, if there are t-shirts, mousepads, and coffee mugs that say "Chapter 32" on them, you know something big happened in chapter 32. Pun intended.So, here's the last few lines in Chapter 31: Cat: "if I don’t wake up tomorrow red in the face from embarrassment at what you did to me, I’ll be disappointed."Bones: "Now, I am short on some props, and there isn’t nearly enough time in one night to run through all the ways I’ve fanta
you’ll be scandalized in the morning when you can think again.”
She was scandalized all right.
I was scandalized!
I'm old and have read plenty of smut.
And then:BOOM BABY!So, sex with Bones would basically kill me at this age, but reading about it?
Definitely good for the old ticker.P.S. I know I didn't tell you anything about the book.
It's an old book so you already know.
Also, there's a blurb - read that if you want to know what it's about.
Although, we've established I'm old enough to be.
One Foot In The Grave is the second installment of Night Huntress series and it is better than the first one.
Bones is pretty different from the man he used to be in the previous book, more adorable and attractive, and yes, he's head over heels in love with Cat!
I still don't get that!) Cat, on the other hand, is still that same annoying woman whom I can't bring myself to like.
However, the story had a lot of interesting details, engaging plot, and it was fast-paced enough to hold my attention throughout.
Besides, I really did enjoy reading this book so I sure will continue this series.
Re-read Time with the Folks at Buddies Books and BaublesFirst book a 4.5 this one is a solid 4 “Once you go dead, there's no one better in bed!" ~ Cat” This was a solid follow up to Halfway to the Grave, not quite as good but definitely not a large drop off.It is four years after Cat left Bones to save him.
She has a dangerous exciting job, but is still completely miserable without Bones in her life.
The only complaint I have is it took a little time for Bones to come into play in the book and t
This was a solid follow up to Halfway to the Grave, not quite as good but definitely not a large drop off.It is four years after Cat left Bones to save him.
The only complaint I have is it took a little time for Bones to come into play in the book and that is just because I missed their banter.
There is still a lot of dark humor in the book and Bones and Cat’s mom’s fighting is hilarious.
As soon as Bones is in the picture again the book really picked up for me.
Witty dialogue, a lot of tough action and of course: Cat and Bones together (hot hot hot).
She has a busy work life, her colleagues respect her and love her and she loves them back.
She misses Bones, feels lonely and is bitter.
Her team of guys respect her and will do anything for her and still she’s sulking and barking!And I hate that.
I’m glad Cat pointed that out herself somewhere in the book.
This and Bones of course.
How can you not love the guy?Thanks to Bones, this books earns 2,5 stars.
This was a fun second instalment in the Night Huntress series.
It was not quite as good as Halfway to the Grave, but I blame the lacklustre secondary characters for that rather than Cat and Bones.
Cat had a chance to grow on her own and perfect her vampire slaying skills.
Best of all we did not have to suffer through her years separated from Bones!
I'm still enjoying the mix of action, humor, and romance that this series has to offer.Rating: 4 stars.Audio Note: Tavia Gilbert did a great job with the audio.
She wanted to be badass, but didn't know how to manage it -- so while Bones taught her to kill & embrace her strengths, they fell in love.
It seems Cat's only weakness is her separation from Bones.
Oh, wait...they hash that out in one long conversation, thanks to Bones' informants.
Oh, wait...both Cat & Bones explain repeatedly that she'll never be with Tate, so tough luck.
Oh, wait...Cat fights with one & earns grudging respect (of course), bookended by infodump conversations that are supposed to build character but instead offer brief respites between Cat's wanting to jump Bones.
5 Awesome Stars.
This seconds installment starts 4,5 years after the end of the first book.
Cat is working with the government killing vampires and trying to move on with her life after having left Bones behind, because she believed they would never had any chance of a future together.
The new characters are pretty good and I loved the progression of the story.
Those near the end evens almost killed me, in a good way!
Pretty good, just as the first.
Character Development:  It’s Bones and Cat. What more can I say?
Reread: September 2016Reread rating: 5 stars "And there is my payment the rubies in your cheeks. Are you properly scandalized by your wicked behavior? If you were Catholic, you'd singe the ears of the priest you confessed to. Do you remember making me swear to repeat all those naughty actions again, no matter what you said this morning?"Now that he brought it up, I did recall saying that. Great, betrayed by my own immorality."God, Bones... some of that was depraved.""I'll take that as a complime
Now, have I ever mentioned that Bones is my fictional-vampire husband?
Let me just tell you that chapter was eye-opening the first time I've read it.
The things Jeaniene Frost's vampires can do with their fangs...
O.M.G!***************************************Original read: September 2015Original rating: 5 stars
I love Jeaniene Frost!When I read a book, what makes it good or bad is that I stop seeing the words.
It's that I feel like watching a movie, not being aware that I'm not.
Unlike Halfway to the Grave, this book gets 5 stars from me, as it didn't leave me frustrated with its ending.P.S. Chapter 32...
