https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11127.The_Chronicles_of_Narnia
When the Lion/Witch/Wardrobe movie came out a while ago, some dude accosted me and said "Dude, the fucking right wing media is trying to say that the Narnia books are all about fucking Christianity!!!"No shit. I figured that out when I was 9.But who cares? If you can't enjoy these books at all, there is no child alive inside of you. And if you've got no child inside you, you're not very much fun at all, are you?
The Horse and his Boy"Do not by any means destroy yourself, for if you live you may yet have good fortune but all the dead are dead alike."This one though based when the Pevensie children are still in Narnia the focus is on two young Calormene children, Shasta and Aravis.
Like I said it certainly has flaws but its achievements overcome those big time!"All their life in this world and all their adventures in Narnia had only been the cover and the title page: now at last they were beginning Chapter One of the Great Story which no one on Earth has read: which goes on for ever: in which every chapter is better than the one before."
By the time I'd finished first grade I'd read them all and searched high and low for any book series that could be as wonderful and magical as this one had been.Now I could dismiss my love of these books as some quaint, childhood memory that I was unwilling to let go of.
I've read them all so many times that I've memorized them.
Our son's bedtime comes and goes and my husband insists on reading just a little bit more.
To me, there's a magic to these books that time and life has never managed to dim.
Quick review Terrific fantasy setting and storyline spoilt by extremely unsubtle allegory and (as the story progresses) excessive Christian preachiness. Warning: Racial stereotypes abound and may offend.Recommended for adults who thrive in a Christian religious environment or those who can overlook these aspects totally and enjoy the story. Not for gullible children, unless accompanied by a discerning adult. Detailed review I won't insult the intelligence of respected GoodReaders by giving a sy
The stories of the four Pevensie children who discover the magical land of Narnia through the back of a wardrobe is the stuff of legend in literary circles - a land which they rule over as kings and queens after freeing it from the enchantment of the White Witch, under the benign yet firm supervision of Aslan the lion.As fantasies for children go, this is a terrific universe filled with possibilities.
(They have been specially blessed as such by Aslan, we are told, in the story of the creation of Narnia in The Magician's Nephew.) This evidently comes from the Bible where Man is given dominion over every living thing on earth.
Set in the fictional realm of Narnia, a fantasy world of magic, mythical beasts, and talking animals, the series narrates the adventures of various children who play central roles in the unfolding history of that world.
Except in The Horse and His Boy, the protagonists are all children from the real world, magically transported to Narnia, where they are called upon by the lion Aslan to protect Narnia from evil and restore the throne to its rightful line.
Favorite books ever when I was a kid! So yea, sticking with 4 stars because I still love it🖤🖤
Read this as a kid and re-read later on, these 7 books were a great form of escapism despite the somewhat overbearing Christian symbolism that is pervasive throughout. The movies did NOT to the books justice but the animated film about Lion, Witch and Wardrobe was actually OK. A must for kids.
It also depends on what sort of person you are.”The Lion, Witch, and the Wardrobe: 4 starsI liked these characters, they engaged me throughout the whole story.
There was also more human and animal interaction in this story than in the previous one, but it’s interesting to read about.
The Horse and His Boy: 2 stars This story started of interesting, but I just wasn’t so captivated by the 4 main characters.
Compared to how great the previous two were this wasn’t on that level.Prince Caspian: 3 stars In this story we are introduced to Prince Caspian and I must say he was a well written character.
Not only is there a veil over the religiosity, there's so much creativity in this story: the magical rings, the in-between place, the Deplorable Word, the founding of Narnia.Starting with The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe, the religiosity becomes noticeable, with the Witch as Satan, Aslan as Jesus, and the Emperor as God. And because of the talking, fighting animals, the fantasy seems aimed at children.
But it wasn't Aslan's only life, he had another one ready.One thing I found especially creative about The Chronicles is how a story involving talking animals justifies eating animals.
The story incorporates such familiar elements as a Tree of Knowledge and the fall of man."The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe" - Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy, four children living in England during World War II, stumble through a magic wardrobe and discover the land of Narnia, which has been ruled for hundreds of years by an evil White Witch who has cast a spell over the land so that it is always winter but never Christmas.
The 2005 film adaptation of The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe was what made me want to read this thick, heavenly book.
I was so enthralled by the movie, and I asked my parents if they could buy me the series for my birthday.My uncle in the US was the one who granted my wish.
After caressing it for a long time, I tucked myself into bed and got down to business.Little did I know that this would be the series that would transform me into a devoted booknerd.
If I were the Ruler of Books, I would require everyone in the planet to read this timeless series.
This read could not be described any better than this:Journeys to the end of the world, fantastic creatures, and epic battles between good and evil—what more could any reader ask for in one book? The book that has it all is The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, written in 1949 by Clive Staples Lewis. But Lewis did not stop there. Six more books followed, and together they became known as The Chronicles of Narnia.
Later, finding out Lewis was a devout Christian and Aslan was basically supposed to be Jebus in a lion suit, I wasn't at all surprised.Nowadays, I recommend Miyazaki movies (especially Kiki) to every tween girl I meet to cleanse their palate of some of the more despicable Disney depictions of femininity, and I happily gift kids (and adults!) with the Dark Materials trilogy to counteract their exposure to the Narnia dogma.All that being said, these books are a memorable part of my childhood, and I still recall parts of them with fondness and longing.
As for the Calormen, I think it's highly possible that the garb was just supposed to convey the exotic, and this particular nation just happens to be bad in the world of the book.
The good faun from LW&W is not a statement about how pagan nature religions are good; likewise, I just don't see that the bad Calormen are necessarily a statement about how the people who once wore curly-toed shoes in the real world are bad.In sum, it's a good story, and even if all the criticisms of the book-- it's racist, it's Christian, etc.-- are true, it's still a good story, and if all I ever read were wholesome books explicitly conveying a wonderful worldview, I would be bored as hell.
I read the entire series, one right after another, eight times in a row when I got them for Christmas in fourth grade.
Just finished reading them again to Eric, my 8-year-old, and loved them maybe just as must as I did as a 10-year-old.
Eric couldn't stop giggling through the last pages of Horse and His Boy, which we had to reread when we finished the rest, since it was his favorite.
One odd little detail that I noticed this time reading Voyage of the Dawn Treader: awful cousin Eustace and his parents are Mormons.
A nice little under-handed slam at a faith that loves to quote him in General Conference.
I love how you can see Aslan as Jesus giving up his life for us. And the greater power or deaper magic that brings him back to life
Although the intended audience, in Lewis' mind, was children (and his various direct addresses to the readers as author presuppose this), there is nothing invidiously "juvenile" about the quality of the writing; it can be enthusiastically appreciated by anyone who loves tales of imagination and adventure, fantasy and wonder; and the truths here, like those in Jesus' parables, are simple enough to speak to children but profound enough to challenge adults.The Christian message is an essential part of all of the books in the Narnia series.
I love these series. It starts with a dreamy fairy tales and ending with a big bang. Behind that children story telling, it has a powerful message of God, bravery, siblings love and rivalry, love and becoming adult. Taking responsible. Punishment and forgiveness. I love all of the siblings especially Lucy.
Childhood favorite!
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe by CS Lewis is one of the books in his series, the Chronicles of Narnia in which Christianity is portrayed through various fantasy creatures.
What child hasn’t climbed into a closet and explored the back cracks in hope of finding an entrance to a new and exciting world after reading this book?
I used to sit in a closet with the door closed and a flashlight reading my favorite books after reading this series, in hopes that someday a door would open and take me to another realm.
Well, if you think that particular book smacks you across the face with Christian metaphors (and obviously as a small child I didn't pick up on this at all), wait til you hit some of the later books (especially The Last Battle).The end of the series completely shocked me.
Still creepy and shocking though.You can also see in A Horse and His Boy how harshly Lewis contrasts the Calormenes with the Narnians.
The difference this time was, I watched the 2005 movie first.
I have loved these books my whole life.
They are frequently misread, I think, by people who insist that everything in Narnia has to "equal" something in our world (Aslan=Jesus, Calormens=Muslims, Tash=Satan, etc.) While Lewis is clearly writing about God, as I read it, he is imagining how the Christian God might reveal himself in another world rather than allegorizing our own.
Anyway, these books are great, and I encourage adults as well as children to give them a shot.
All due respect to the movies, but as usual the books are much better.
Full review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/....The Voyage of the Dawn Treader: The strongest of the three "Chronicles of Narnia" books I've read so far, "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" opens with a wonderful first line: "There was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it." Eustace, a cousin to the four Pevensie children, who the first two books focused on, is the designated asshole in this entry, taking up the mantle carried by Edmund in "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" and Susan in "Prince Caspian." I've complained about this trope in my other reviews, but I don't have as much of a problem with it this time around because Eustace is so wonderfully bitchy.
Edizione in tre volumi. 1º volume (letto dal 13 al 26 Gennaio 2017)• Il nipote del mago ★★★ In questo libro (sesto per ordine di pubblicazione, ma in realtà pensato come un prequel alle avventure di Peter, Susan, Edmund e Lucy) C.S. Lewis ci accompagna per la prima volta nel regno di Narnia, attraverso la magia di due anelli forgiati da un incauto mago. Scaraventati in un mondo parallelo, due bambini - Polly e Diggory - saranno i primi a fare la conoscenza del possente Aslan ma saranno anche res
1º volume (letto dal 13 al 26 Gennaio 2017)• Il nipote del mago ★★★½ In questo libro (sesto per ordine di pubblicazione, ma in realtà pensato come un prequel alle avventure di Peter, Susan, Edmund e Lucy) C.S. Lewis ci accompagna per la prima volta nel regno di Narnia, attraverso la magia di due anelli forgiati da un incauto mago.
Avventuroso, magico, divertente, dopo "Il leone, la strega e l'armadio" è il capitolo che finora mi è piaciuto di più.3º volume (letto dal 14 al 18 Luglio 2017)- Il Viaggio Del Veliero ★★½ non mi ha entusiasmato particolarmente questo racconto delle avventure per mare di Caspian, Lucy ed Edmund.
I was wondering the other day(view spoiler)[ and lets not forget the time of year at the moment I've doubtless been sleeping on a full stomach, and my brain over fuelled with rich foods (view spoiler)[ Otherwise I'm really at a loss with that dream of mine in which a kitten transform into a baby girl with a lick of red hair on her head who grew rapidly and could soon talk with dreamlike wisdom (view spoiler)[ as indeed you'd expect for a red headed girl who had started off life as a kitten(view spoiler)[ or indeed a dream (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ either that or my daily walks are leading me through some odd places (hide spoiler)] how far Lewis's sexuality determined his famously maladroit handling of the female element to his story telling.The lion merely supplants the witch, they find no accommodation together, there is no fruitful synthesis.
La sedia d'argento  (dal 15/03 al 19/03) 1,5 stellineHo adorato l'inizio e la fine, specialmente i pochissimi capitoli che non si svolgono a Narnia.
La parte centrale mi ha annoiato a morte (Eustachio bravo e buono proprio non l'ho sopportato) L'ultima battaglia  (dal 19/03 al 24/03) 2 stellineNon mi è piaciuto il fatto che Susan sia stata esclusa dall'ultima avventura solo perchè cresciuta.
As a child, I read what I considered to be “the good ones” of this series (Lion/Wardrobe, Caspian, Dawn Treader, Silver Chair) although the little I remember is mostly from the BBC TV specials.
This is not inherently a bad thing, but it felt out of tone with the books which were written earlier, but come chronologically later.Best: The descriptions of the wood between the worlds, and Aslan sings the world into being.Worst: Shoehorned in references to Lion/Witch/etc, making that book less cool.Most Annoying Jesus-the-Lion Moment: Actually not awful, despite the whole creating out of the void and all.Score: 2 starsThe Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe:Classic.
I went back and actually read the Chronicles of Narnia for the first time last year.
At the end of the day, this story has to be read as imperfect fiction, but still with an unparalelled scope of imagination.The other issue, of course is gender.
C.S. Lewis, like many other celebrated authors of the 20th century (Take Hemingway, for crying out loud!) seems to have some issues with integrating feminine power into his worldview, let alone his fiction.
Again, however, I think that for children, Lewis' power of storytelling and imagination far outweighs his dated (even for his own time) perspective on NonWestern cultures and femininity.
"Un giorno sarai grande abbastanza da ricominciare a leggere le favole." C.S. Lewis.Recensione compl
The books are nice and short, yet each is a quality fantasy story, loaded, of course, with Lewis' exploration-in-fiction of man's relationship to diety and the world.
Lewis, of course, remained more faithful to George MacDonald than Tolkien, and that shows: Narnia is a fantasy of the Victorians pulled into the Modern period.
Maybe not really allegory, though I've heard them described as such (I think by Tolkien), but I can see how one would get that impression-- the world feels much more unabashedly fictional, in comparison to Middle Earth or most "gritty" fantasy that is out there today.
