https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24817626-go-set-a-watchman
For those living in a cave, Go Set a Watchman is a sequel to To Kill a Mockingbird, the book that popularized the "white people end racism" narrative so maligned in The Help but still celebrated in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Here is the entire plot of Go Set a Watchman: Jean Louise "Scout" Finch learns her father is not who she thought he was.
In present-day context, Go Set a Watchman works, barely, because we have To Kill a Mockingbird to characterize Atticus.
In its ending, which is tragic yet not written as a tragedy, Go Set a Watchman endorses undeserved tolerance and respect for hateful white people.
“Now think about this. What would happen if all the Negroes in the South were suddenly given full civil rights? I’ll tell you. There’d be another Reconstruction. Would you want your state governments run by people who don’t know how to run ’em? Do you want this town run by—now wait a minute—Willoughby’s a crook, we know that, but do you know of any Negro who knows as much as Willoughby? Zeebo’d probably be Mayor of Maycomb. Would you want someone of Zeebo’s capability to handle the town’s money
I understand that there are a lot of controversy and conspiracy theories regarding the publication of this book, and for good reason.I read To Kill a Mockingbird in 8th grade.
In 8th grade, before reading this book, our class studied American history.
As a newly arrived immigrant, this should have made an impact on me, but again, I was so young that I didn't truly understand the significance.It was only later on, when I was older, that I understood how important this book was, and how remarkable the character of Atticus Finch was.
First, let me say that this book IN NO WAY affected my opinion of "To Kill A Mockingbird".
In my mind, it is even more of a masterpiece from having read it's predecessor, or, as Harper Lee herself described it, the parent of Mockingbird.
And Harper Lee herself has lost no respect from me.The characters become even richer from seeing their future selves in Watchman.
She fleshed out some characters and limited others.
It was a brilliant idea, Lee took the advice, and Mockingbird was brought into existence as the book so many of us have loved all our lives.
2015 Goodreads Choice Winner:Best Fiction So, I’m not going to lie.
I was pretty excited when I found out that this book was coming out.I was even more excited when it showed up at my house.
I know there is a whole controversy around this book but I just don’t buy it.
I believe the story that was told.
No, I don’t want to argue with you about it.
No, I don’t want you to tell me why you’re right.
No, I am not going to try to change your mind on the matter.
So, please don’t think you’ll change mi
So, please don’t think you’ll change mine.I had the wonderful experience of reading To Kill a Mockingbird (reread) while reading this one.
I realize Scout is the one telling it, but it felt like it was his story.
I think that is why I’m nearly out of my mind.”I know there was a huge uproar about the change in Atticus Finch.
I’m something else and I don’t know what.”If you go into this looking for a sequel I think you will be disappointed.
If you go into it understanding that it is the whole story that has been there all the time, I think you’ll enjoy it.
Review: I think this quote really encapsulates both the tone of the book and peoples’ feelings when reading it. The audience and Scout’s nostalgia for what once was is a large part of the experience with this  To Kill a Mockingbird  sequel. Things change, people change, and the lens of our childhood perceptions can be clouded with a rose-tint that turns out to be not so consistent with reality. Fair warning is given to those dear readers who grew up—like Scout—to idolize Atticus: “As you grew u
I think this quote really encapsulates both the tone of the book and peoples’ feelings when reading it.
Gone too is the middle grade tone, though there are plenty of oddly placed flashbacks to parts of Scout and Jem’s teen years.We find Scout is fully-grown and headstrong, but is still terribly naïve (which makes for many an explosive outburst).
She clashes most with her Aunt Alexandra, mostly about such things as who she can marry; Alexandra tends to have a deluded vision of Scout as some kind of high society woman and thinks she is too good for “trash” like Hank.It isn’t a perfect book.
It isn’t an entertaining book.
It isn’t even a necessary sequel.
I am going to write a full review I think but oh this is not a novel and it was not ready for public consumption. There is a faint glimmer of plot. There IS something here but it is not coherent. It is not robust. This reads as notes toward something grand and that makes the book's current state that much more a travesty.
You can’t really look at this as a sequel that’s been directly informed by and is following up To Kill A Mockingbird, if for no other reason than because in one version you’ve got child Scout learning that racism is this ugly thing that you don’t have to hold in your heart and in another version you’ve got adult Scout coming home and feeling dismayed that she never knew so many people she grew up with could be so racist and working hard to understand the psychology of the South.
The whole cast of some old sitcom get together and you just spend the whole time thinking about how old everybody looks.The basic plot of this new sequel/prequel/first draft of To Kill A Mockingbird is that our beloved narrator, Scout (now Jean Louise), is now in her twenties and returns from New York to visit her father, Atticus, in Maycomb.
However, Atticus has changed in these years and now hold views and opinions that greatly upset Jean Louise.
The rest of the book is spent with Jean Louise trying to comprehend her father's new views and it fizzles out after that.
Atticus Finch as racist. There it is. Tough to swallow, isn’t it? Atticus Finch, the embodiment of decency, brought to life in To Kill a Mockingbird, widely considered one of the greatest novels in American literature, magnificently brought to cinematic life by Gregory Peck in the film, defender of the powerless, dispenser of wisdom, a hero to generations of readers and movie-goers, spouting opinions that do or should make most folks cringe. Here are a few samples: …You realize that our Negro po
Atticus Finch, the embodiment of decency, brought to life in To Kill a Mockingbird, widely considered one of the greatest novels in American literature, magnificently brought to cinematic life by Gregory Peck in the film, defender of the powerless, dispenser of wisdom, a hero to generations of readers and movie-goers, spouting opinions that do or should make most folks cringe.
She realizes that when it comes to her appreciation for the people of Maycomb, dad included, she has been, as Jem describes in Mockingbird, “a caterpillar wrapped in a cocoon.” The watchman of the title is taken from a biblical quotation, (Isaiah 21:6), and refers to conscience.
Praise the heavens. Now there’s a second inexplicably overly popular novel that people who barely read two books a year can list as one of their favourite novels on their Goodreads, Facebook, and dating profiles. And now there’s another inexplicably overly popular novel I have to ignore, while the world fires missiles of contempt into my head, bearing the inscriptions: “But this is so POWERFUL. It is about INJUSTICE and stuff. You are an IDIOT for not reading this.” Looking forward to not reading or rating any of your reviews of this one come June.
(view spoiler)[Looking back on To Kill a Mockingbird after having read Watchman is like looking at an advert for icecream, it makes your mouth water, you really would like some of it.
(view spoiler)[Update 1 After reading what the NYTimes Thanks Gary has to say, I am wondering if maybe Watchman was just a draft and was written by someone else from that and the someone else is not anyone with a big literary name, so if the book was published honestly it would garner some publicity but everyone would be looking for flaws as they always do when one author takes over another's book.
I guess this is as good time as any to re-read To Kill A Mockingbird.
Wooooo Hooooo!!!https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&rc...Update July 14th, 2105*I read a review that made me change my mind- and normally I don't do that (I like to think for myself thank you very much)...but I am going to leave To Kill a Mockingbird as it should be- My final memory of a great author- and characters I will always love- just the way they were.
And as Scout is only a child narrating that story, she puts her father on a god-like pedestal that is understandable when everyone tells her how integrous and upright and honest he is.So while reading Go Set a Watchman, I couldn’t help but be a bit pleased to see Atticus Finch humanized.
I know, contrary to popular opinions about this book, I really enjoyed reading from Scout’s perspective as the harsh reality of seeing one’s idol knocked down happened before her own eyes.
And now Scout has to face the harsh reality of differing opinions, seeing the ones she loves drift from her, as she comes into her own opinions.I found Scout’s internal struggle to be incredibly interesting to read about.
Go Set a Watchman is a novel about growing up; it is a story about seeing the world as it truly is and not how we wish it to be. Not everything is perfect and not everything can be separated by such a simple barrier as black and white. “Had she insight, could she have perceived the barriers of her highly selective, insular world, she may have discovered that all her life she had been with a visual defect which had gone unnoticed and neglected by herself and those closest to her: she was born col
It is something entirely different.This book seeks to break through those early ideas Jean had of the world.
In To Kill a Mockingbird she saw the world with a child’s eyes and could not comprehend that the world is a complex place.
Atticus has always been a white knight to Jean, a crusader for justice, though the real world is an endless stream of grey.
I never thought to look into people’s hearts, I looked only in their faces.” Have you ever loved a racist?
Go Set a Watchman is a fantastic book, and in many ways it does transcend the naivety of To Kill a Mockingbird.
But I suspect had Mr Finch been fortunate to live as long as his creator-author, he'd have taken umbrage at the moral failure on the part of the agents and publishers no?Be that as it may, this novel couldn’t have appeared at a worse time.
In my opinion the character of Atticus Finch is an exhausted moral allegory for a tormented racial conscience that offers a saccharine palliative to assuage the collective guilt born of centuries of atrocities inflicted upon the "lesser races.” Yet at the same time he so plainly and obviously symbolises an internalised thought process social theorists have labelled the “saviour complex.” So Mockingbird series is not about human rights and equality for black people but something else entirely.
“Every man’s island, Jean Louise, every man’s watchman, is his conscience. There is no such thing as a collective conscious.” Important things to understand about Go Set a Watchman:• It is not exactly a sequel to To Kill a Mockingbird. If you go into it thinking of it as a sequel, you will be disappointed. • This book was never supposed to be published. For most of her life, Harper Lee did not want it to be published. There's a lot of sketchiness surrounding the publication of this book. You ca
In other words, it's not a sequel––it's essentially an early draft and an alternate version of the story.With those things in mind, on to the review ...General thoughts:Like many others, I was initially excited about the unearthing of a second Harper Lee book––but, of course, nervous about it as well.
From what I understand, Ms. Lee didn't want this book to be published until after she died, because she didn't want to deal with the publicity and people comparing it to TKAM.
– – ought to be ashamed of yourselves – – disgrace to the family – – have fun?"The editors of "To kill a mockingbird", got it right when they suggested to Harper Lee, she might think about trying again, (when she first presented 'this' manuscript).
They suggested she focus on the flashbacks to the life in Maycomb, Alabama, during the Great Depression....
which definitely turned out to be the great choice, the better novel, than"Go Set a Watchman".
Yet.....I still enjoyed re-visiting the characters....the small town....and I especially enjoyed the relationship between Scout & Atticus.....( inspiring love) "Go Set a Watchman" ...( divided into seven parts...a small book), has heart...(a little nostalgia for some of us).
Seeing Scouts growing pains, changes in her opinions and ability to articulate what it is she believes, was wonderful.
Some of the parts where Scout is thinking back to her childhood were very funny, especially the revival scene.At the end it got a bit preachy, but it clearly defined both her and Atticus's attitudes towards the South and its Black residents.This book in no way changed the way I felt about Atticus, he is still a very wise man, in my opinion.
I've seen that this book has been getting so much flack lately.
But that's probably because everyone's treating it like manna from heaven and are therefore disappointed when it's not perfect.
Let's remember this very important fact: Go Set a Watchman was written and then shelved by Harper Lee, who wrote To Kill a Mockingbird instead.
there's probably a reason she opted to do that.
I, for one, loved this book for the simple reason that it isn't all sunshine and rainbows.
Thank you, Harper Lee, for showing the nitty gritty of life back in this time.
"Prejudice, a dirty word, and faith, a clean one, have something in common: they both begin where reason ends.”Go Set a Watchman was released this week and despite the warnings that reading this long awaited companion (it is NOT a sequel) to To Kill A Mockingbird may spoil everything I have ever believed about the story and its main characters, I read the book.
In a way, Go Set a Watchman is an alternative version altogether - like a standalone book so far removed in character, voice, plot, style even, from To Kill a Mockingbird that comparison by their differences becomes more exhausting than a comparison by their similarities.
Freshman English teachers everywhere gather in the streets. The chanting begins. terror rises. no one is safe. The mockingbird cannot be killed....update:apparently, Atticus is an old racist now. I always knew I would loose the original hot dad, just didn't want it to be like this.
On one hand, I like Lee's easy going prose, her southern speech inflections, her strong-willed Jean Louise (Scout at 26 years old back home from NYC), and her nostalgic writing about the south.
However, Go Set A Watchman is not really required reading unless you are, like me, someone born in the south and trying to make sense of the wave of racial hate spewed by Republicans and Drumpf in the current administration in terms of its origin and how to wipe it out.
Got a copy in my hot hands... I'm just saving it for the right moment, so I can dive in and not come up for air till I am done with it!! Because life has a thing about annoying me, while I'm reading. :)Just read the first chapter on The Wall Street Journal's site.I'm glad I did because it's going to be awesome!!! Then the bombshell that is revealed mid chapter had me in a turrets fit and I started to cry. :(Pre-ordered this on Amazon!!Holy cow!!!!I'm so excited.To Kill a Mockingbird is my favorite book EVER. :D
[4.5 Stars]
Που ειναι ο αδελφός της; τι συμβαίνει με τον πατέρα της που υπερασπιζόταν ενάντια σε όλους τα απαξιωμένα "κοτσύφια";Που έχουν παει όλοι οι φίλοι της;Οι δικοί της άνθρωποι;Η νεγρα νταντά που τη μεγάλωσε σαν μάνα;Ξεπεράστηκε το πένθος και ο χρόνος που αφιέρωναν ως τιμή στο τραγούδι των κοτσυφιων;Ολα έχουν αλλάξει.
Δε σας κρύβω συνέχισα να διαβάσω με μεγάλη απογοήτευση και μια αίσθηση διάψευσης προς ολα και κυρίως προς τα μηνύματα που μου πέρασε η συγγραφέας στο πρώτο βιβλίο.
It would be sad to know that it was published without Harper Lee's approval, but we have no way of really knowing for sure .
My favorite parts of the book were the flashbacks to Scout's childhood when we see Jem and Dill again who are not in the present story.
Of course I loved him TKAM and I'll forever see him as Gregory Peck portrayed him.
It's hard to think about Atticus this way, but we will forever have the man that Lee wanted him to be in TKAM .
This book did change my feelings for TKAM .
Go Set a Watchman (To Kill a Mockingbird #2), Harper LeeGo Set a Watchman is a novel by Harper Lee published on July 14, 2015.
It includes treatments of many of the characters who appear in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Clinton works for her father Atticus, who is a lawyer and former state legislator.
Jack, Atticus's brother and a retired doctor, is Scout's mentor.
ملاقات بیست سال پس از رخداد کشتن پرنده ی مقلد رخ می‌دهد.
اسکات در این ملاقات، در جستجوی یافتن باورهای پدرش، در رابطه با زادگاهش است.
All controversy aside, I'm still rooting for Harper Lee and for this novel to be amazing!
