https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765167.Seven_Types_of_Ambiguity
Originally purchased after reading a short story by Shirley Jackson about a character's ambiguous action to something said, this book became something I was determined to read through. Fascinating, mentally stimulating, and engrossing, even if you have to chain yourself to a wall to read it. Best comprehended reading in a windowless room, devoid of all but a desk, chair, and lamp, for uninterrupted 3 hour intervals.
In the first chapter, in a great show of reasoning, Empson defends his assertion that ambiguity is a significant poetic device; this is followed by a discussion of the relation between sound and sense in poetry.
In his discussion of the seventh type of ambiguity, Empson employs the discourses both of psychoanalysis and of symbolic logic, and in his conclusion he distinguishes between the appreciation and the analysis as two dominant forms of poetic criticism.
Although many of the examples from 15-19th century poetry that Empson analyses seems hopelessly dated—it always amazes me that the Romantics were that romantic—his close attention to words and their various meanings is a good wake-up call.
Or whether ambiguity exists because of an author's intent or by what the reader brings to the words.
In the latter case ambiguity is easy enough to produce by using loaded words ("loaded" here is a good example of what I mean).
An author may have a clear meaning in mind, but can count on readers heading in many directions regardless.
Poetically technical (or technically poetic) masturbation is still masturbation. And masturbating can condemn a man to hairy palms, sheer blindness, or even in some more incredible cases, Eternal Hell. All of this sounds horrifying and I want nothing to do with it!
Still dense, still hard to tell exactly what separates one type from another, still brilliant.
Of the seven types, the first three are not ambiguities and there is no substantial difference between the sixth and seventh.
That leaves four, five and six.
The first three amount to no more than examples of metaphors and puns, neither of which is ambiguous (though euphemisms, not puns, can be, not that Empson mentions them).
If I'd known this was written by a twenty-four year old, I wouldn't have bothered.
Though to his credit, the idea of "fortunate conclusions" is worthwhile though he does not spend much time on it (Empson means by this poets discovering their ideas as they write, like Shelley).
I found this book to contain much sensitive analysis and a pleasant style, but I traversed it with the sense that I lacked the patience and refinement to take much away from it. Ultimately, the ending cheered me and serves as a better review than anything I could write:"I should claim, then, that for those who find this book contains novelties, it will make poetry more beautiful, without their ever having to remember the novelties, or endeavor to apply them. It seems a sufficient apology for many niggling pages."
Under the false guise of literary criticism, William Empson has produced a true comic masterpiece, a book of enormous intellectual energy and verbal wit, which is closer in spirit and "atmosphere" to the impractical, rambling novels of Sterne than to the grave Practical Criticism of I.A. Richards.At the same time, Empson puts forward his thesis about "ambiguity" in poetry, which actually is not that ambiguous and nonsensical, if you could just stop laughing for a second (which you couldn't possibly).
turgid and baffling (e.g. one of his types depends on the process of the author, not on the text explicitly, but we are supposed to read this into the text—?), but his types of ambiguities are useful to think about, if nothing else.
This is "reviewed"--used, I take in in Empson's spirit--in my book "Why Are Our Pictures Puzzles?"
Everybody knows there's seven types of ambiguity...or do they?...is there? Huh? As far as literary criticism goes, Empson's book is actually an enjoyable read.
How does the detective conclude, as Empson does on page 178, that by "the ghosts of beauty glide/And haunt the places where their honour died" Pope intended to leave the door open to three pregnant prose paragraphs of potential meaning?
Elementary: Empson has pre-empted the Derridean suspicion that there can be no meaning without the possibility of it being mistaken.
(Both in his arguments and, if you have a later edition, his footnotes defending his thesis from other critics since 1930.) The result is an improving book, which Empson ended a finer critic than he started, ready to take his place alongside Johnson and Hazlitt as one of the best critics of English poetry "not least," as Jonathan Bate pointed out, "because they were the funniest."
Letto rapidamente, soprattutto senza le necessarie conoscenze della poesia inglese qui usata come base per la dissertazione. A ogni modo, estremamente utile da (qualsiasi) punto di vista narrativo la riflessione di Empson sul concetto di ambiguità come strumento del racconto.
This book is invaluable for any scholar who is pursuing a serious study of poetry. It is a must-read.
noooo restringe, antes bien, ilumina, detona, invita #chimbita SI EL ANALISTA CONQUISTÓ EL PAÍS, AÚN NO LO GOBIERNA...
3 1/2 stars
This is a wonderful book for the writer who is interested in the nuances of langauge and words.
Nonetheless, it's poetry Empson was drawn to--and he probably didn't spend a lot of time on writers like Flaubert or Proust because he wasn't as interested in fiction.
Because of my own work and particular interests as a writer at this point, the book didn't quite call to me.Still, it's a detailed, servicable book by a thorough and creative mind and a wonderful introduction to the nuances of language.
Instead, the key words in his examples are often so arcane that a modern person is immediately strained to search for any meaning on the face of them at all, never mind competing ambiguities!
A reader should not expect a scientific-objective account of the linguistic resources available to the literary writer, in the style of a Stephen Pinker book, but rather a very erudite and personal reflection on the joys of reading poetry, "scientific" in the older sense which presumes a familiarity with the whole: all the great poets of the canon from Chaucer onward, and with the latin sources of so much English literary history to boot.
An interesting an stimulating look at the presence and effects of ambiguity in poetry.
Calling up various currents in literary critical trends such as the rediscovery of the metaphysical poets and the insights of Freud, Empson teases apart a number of examples to reveal the seven types of ambiguity.It actually makes for interesting reading, since the examples he draws on are varied and often obscure.
His method is to show that ambiguity results in a number of alternate readings of the text, which taken together cast additional light on the example text.
I recall that I got this book because it was referred to (and summarized) in Lewis Turco's book "The New Book of Forms." It has been on my shelf for years.
I pulled it down and found where I stopped reading on page 78.This is about half the way through the second type of ambiguity where two or more meanings are resolved into one.
That type of ambiguity is the most fun to try to work with in a sonnet form, for me, anyway, so I think I got what I needed from the book.
But looking at it again, now for the review.

I really liked this book. I have read some reviews that describe it as wordy and redundant, but it was sull of descriptions of people and situations that I can easily imagine. There is psychology, the use of the excesses in life to get by and yet at the end boy meets girl, loses girl gets girl back, but then a new boy meets a new girl and that is left ambiguious. Good 600+ page read.
This has been sitting on the various incarnations of my bookshelves for a decade. I kept it around for the two most amazing dedications I have ever received, something of a benediction on the way out the door from graduation...chosen for the title.It's about time I opened its pages and see if the content is as appropriate a gift as the cover was back then.
early US formalism. displays the normal new criticism focus on textual 'complexity,' here the 'ambiguities,' but for author these complexities are an index of the writer's mind, which is something about which mature new criticism does not care--probably a nostalgia for earlier author-oriented writings.
I liked this about as much as one can like a book on analyzing poetry from the 1930s: not too much. I understand that this is an important text in the development of literary analysis, but the misogyny and antiquated attitudes make it hard for me to access the book.
still not sure how i feel about this one...
I skimmed it for argument, which shouldn't be how one goes about reading such a book.
This book helped me overcome my fear of poetry. It also put at my disposal the adjective "empsonian", an excellent modifier for the noun "ambiguity".
COCC PN 1031 .E4 1953 but musty
A reliable substitute for Propofol.
