https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85384.The_Centaur
”It must be terrible to know so much.”A pause.“It is,” my father said. “It’s hell.” Chiron depicted in Roman art. The Greeks always depicted him with human front legs. Chiron educated the children of the gods and goddesses so he is an apt mythological creature for George Caldwell to identify with.George Caldwell is a school teacher at Olinger High School. He struggles with teaching, not because he isn’t good at it, but because he wants it to be so much more. His mind is so expansive that it ofte
Chiron educated the children of the gods and goddesses so he is an apt mythological creature for George Caldwell to identify with.George Caldwell is a school teacher at Olinger High School.
There’s nobody else like you in the world.”The plot of the novel revolves around George and Peter trying to get home each day and encountering Herculean obstructions that keep them from arriving at their house in the country.
I do hope that he does experience a resurgence of readers because there are writers in the next generation that would benefit from reading these eloquent and graceful sentences that Updike sprinkles liberally like a trail of emeralds through the texts of his books.
Somehow The Centaur is my most favourite John Updike’s novel – it is pristinely poetic and sparkling with the freshness of adolescence…And John Updike was the one who with his wondrous words turned adolescence into a miraculous saga.The Founding Fathers in their wisdom decided that children were an unnatural strain on parents.
School is where you go between when your parents can’t take you and industry can’t take you.Every child, in order to be ready to reside in the vast world, must be educated and there is no better educator than the centaur Chiron:The Arcadian sun was growing warmer.
Winter turned vernal.And it isn’t it great to have legendary Chiron as your father.
In this modern retelling of ancient Greek myth (à la Joyce's Ulysses) Updike presents us with the famed myth of Chiron, the centaur.
Set in late-40s small town America we have the stories of George Caldwell, a teacher in his 50s, and his son Peter, 15 years old and laden with psoriasis.
The son coming of age and facing the harsh reality of life and the father coming of age and facing the harsh reality of death.
Updike weaves both lives seamlessly which demonstrates his deftness with prose.
Readers with a penchant for Greek mythology and stories of post-war America will thoroughly enjoy this novel, as I did.
when updike croaked out edmund white wrote that the father/son sections of the centaur were his personal favorite of the dead man's writings.
the centaur is a strange strange book; flawed, but the good parts are really so good that white might be right: this could be updike's best stand-alone novel.
Looking at this streak of black, I relived the very swipe of my palette knife, one second of my life that in a remarkable way had held firm.
It was this firmness, I think, this potential fixing of a few passing seconds, that attracted me, at the age of five, to art.
"Appesantito e stordito dalla propria morte, torpido e diafano come un predatore trasparente che trascini i propri tentacoli velenosi attraverso le pressioni adamantine delle profondità oceaniche, si sposta alle spalle degli spettatori e cerca suo figlio tra la folla".Updike si muove in questo testo nel segno dell'ironia fantastica e della sperimentazione creativa, accompagnando il lettore in un viaggio ai limiti della forma, in una narrazione che ha come centro l'introspezione e la ricerca di senso in un contesto di medietà moderna, nel mezzo di un'esistenza comica e profonda.
Ed è solo America, paesaggio e sogno, commedia e dramma, riso e gioco e sole e sensazione: la scoperta di quella temibile assenza che a volte è la vita."Il tuo sonno contiene innocenza come la notte contiene rugiada".
Rereading it now, I realize either that I cheated and didn't actually read it before I wrote the book report - or I'm just getting so old that I don't remember it at all.
Did Ms. Kaiser suspect I'd faked it?Except the mythology doesn't have all that much to do with the story.The central metaphor is that Chiron, the noblest of all the centaurs, took pity on humankind.
Chiron's loss of immortality gave birth to the technology humans would eventually use to rival the gods.The Chiron of Updike's story is George Caldwell, a middle-aged high-school teacher in small-town Pennsylvania.
Очень непросто.
This book is sadly underrated among Updike's oeuvre. I think it's his best literary accomplishment. The Centaur is both a distorted, modernized retelling of the myth of Chiron and a moving story of a father and son. The prose is dense and rich, heavy with classical illusion; this isn't the easiest read, but it's worth the work. Updike's erudition and his gorgeous way with a sentence are on display here to a degree unmatched by any of his other work.
داستان در مورد رابطه ی بین پدر و پسر بودکتابی نیود که خیلییی منو جذب کنه.
The autocratic headmaster Zimmerman is Zeus (and has some of Zeus's sexual mores too), but Updike keeps the mythological ties quite understated most of the time.The real strength of the novel is its analysis of the father/son relationship and how it changes during the teenage years.
Chiron is immortal and gives up his mortality to save Prometheus; Peter can be seen as Prometheus, but other critics have argued George is both Chiron and Prometheus and I think this is more likely.
The move in the novel is from the idealised immortal father to the mortal embarrassing one and there are some very typical father/teenage son exchanges.
Updike certainly has a unique prose style that is enjoyable. The father/son interchange fell flat, in part it felt because of the attempt to tie the story into a broader mythological realm. Maybe it worked better back in the day, but the story seventy years in the past didn't seem to have the same universality as the mythology upon which it was loosely based.
Updike captures angst like no other author.
This short novel set in 1947 in small town America, depicts the relationship between a father and his adolescent son by watching them over three days.
These characters were so vividly portrayed that I felt as if I had inhabited their skin.
Interspersed between chapters narrating the events of these days in a traditional form, were short passages in which these figures were transmuted into mythological figures.
My knowledge of these figures is simply too limited for me to make sense of these passages.
Because of my limitations, I did not enjoy this book as much as it deserved.
A vida de George é descrita em detalhe ao longo de três dias, numa narrativa belíssima, e este professor move-se entre duas realidades, a de George o homem e uma outra que não é intelegivelmente acessível aos de mais, George enquanto Quíron, o mito.
Com estes processos George ganha a consciência de que na vida algumas coisas têm de ir ficando pelo caminho, para o seu próprio bem e também daqueles que mais ama...Os Monstros são mais vulneráveis nas suas transiçõesPeter Caldwell, o filho, torna o livro ainda mais delicioso no retrato da adolescência e na relação com o pai.
Грандиозно, но не все понятно.И круто, что в США есть холодильники и бананы в 1947 году
The Centaur is John Updike's third novel, it won the National Book Award in 1964, and is a loose retelling of the Greek myth of Chiron, noblest of all Centaurs.George Caldwell is Chiron.
The story takes place over a few winter days in the life of George, his wife and his son.In the myth, Chiron was wounded by a poison arrow.
I was content to enjoy Updike's tale while I noted that sometimes George appeared as a Centaur but most times as a man.
He consistently appeared as an emotionally wounded man.The chapters alternate between George and the first person voice of his teenage son.
”This quote is from Bibliotheca 2.5.4, and describes the death of Chiron.The character of Peter is similar to Updike himself; both had schoolteacher fathers, lived in rural Pennsylvania, were passionate about painting, and suffered from psoriasis.To quote from Amazon, "In a small Pennsylvania town in the late 1940s, schoolteacher George Caldwell yearns to find some meaning in his life.
Interwoven with the myth of Chiron, the noblest centaur, and his own relationship to Prometheus, The Centaur is one of John Updike's most brilliant and unusual novels."I am glad to have read the book now rather than earlier as my understanding of the novel is deeper having read the recent biography and lends much background to John Updike the author.
Your solemn mouth has relaxed in sleep and the upper lip displays the little extra racial button of fat like a bruise blister.
I love the tulip-stem stance of your throat.
When you stand before the stove you make, all unconscious, undulant motions with the upper half of your body like a drinking hen.
I am glad I have met you, glad, proud, glad; I miss only, and then only a little, in the late afternoons, the sudden white laughter that like heat lightning bursts in an atmosphere where souls are trying to serve the impossible.
This book tells the story of three days in the lives of a man and his son, living in rural Pennsylvania in the early 50s.
He also likens himself to the mythological beast Chiron, the centaur, and parts of the book are told from this point of view.
The characters were interesting and well-developed, and I could really feel for Peter and his angst.
But the mythology was unnecessary, and the subordinate characters were mostly just annoying wallpaper.
لذتِ مزمزهکردنِ یک شاهکار
لذتِ مزمزه‌کردنِ یک شاهکار
Tons of easy sentimentality and very little real drama. The "suffering, heroic dad" is a lot less memorable than the brutal, Harvey Weinstein lechery of the high school principal -- which Updike seems to accept as part of the natural order of things.
This incredible story by John Updike shows a father struggling to maintain a relationship with his son by comparing the real world to mystical characters.
Self-loathing is present and acceptance into this world by their peers in yearned for.John Updike makes interesting parallels in his novel.
By comparing the characters discreetly, Updike allows the reader to make connections on their own into the mystical world.
The reader is shown the ways the characters are similar and thus are allowed to draw their own conclusions.The language used within this novel is exquisite.
As a writer, Updike taught me to create three dimensional characters.
Not my favorite Updike book, but an interesting one. Take his writing style and add some Greek mythology to the mix. This is a modern take on the story of Chiron. There is an index in the back of the book telling you which gods are mentioned, but kind of wish they told you who's who.
It is an immense whispering whose throat seems to be now here, now there." My sense is that some Muse possessed Updike to write like this with ease, that these pieces of candy were gifts to him and to me.
Here, I felt that Updike had sat down and had a long think about fabrication.
Putting aside the oddities --- frequently irritating --- of George Caldwell's behavior, one sees the genuine grief that can bind together a father and son and how loyalty and anger and love can exist on one plane.
This book intrigued me and pulled me all the way through to its end--but once I finished it, I felt like a dope.
Most books at least make some kind of internal sense within my brain.This, however, I did not 'get.' (view spoiler)[ The 'abstractification' of the ending and the inconsistent Greek-pantheon metaphors/conceits left me struggling to understand, on a basic level, just what was happening in the book.
At least I know how 'Ulysses' ends.
This--how DOES it end?
It's bugging me, that I don't have a good grasp on the ending.
Maybe at some point I'll look into the 'Rabbit, Run' books.
I have to agree with the reviewer who said, "until the second chapter, I wasn't sure if I was going to finish this book." I felt exactly the same way.
The weaving of the two stories was extremely confusing at first, the way that Updike just replaced Charion with George and slid seamlessly between the two narratives.
But without the overwhelming reviews here, I KNOW I would have put it down halfway through chapter 1, simply because I could not figure out what was going on.
It wasn't a bar bet, exactly, but one night not long ago I made a few sweeping (and whiskey-fueled) statements about the irrelevance and sexism of mid-century white dude novelists like Roth, Cheever, and Updike that quite unexpectedly garnered such a thoughtful, knowledgable defense of Updike from my friend Dave that the only possible way I saw to save face was to immediately promise to read the Updike novel of his choosing.
I've read other Updike novels, which are much different than this one.
I wasn't quite prepared for the mix of mythological and modern-day characters that inhabit this book.
As always, Updike has a remarkable ear for dialogue, and some of the scenes seem so real, they are almost painful to read.
The writing is both precise and lyrical, which is what makes reading anything by Updike so rewarding.
Just be ready for a bit of a mind-shift as you read, since mythological characters blend into the real world in this book.
Innecesariamente confuso, osea no es porque fuera necesario para la historia sino por simple capricho propio, podria habrme saltado la mitad del libro y aun asi no me hubiera perdido nada.
Such an amazing book, but the perfect resemblence of the father in this book to my own dad was excruciating... down to the last detail. Except my dad is not a centaur.
meh. me not likey likey
