https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816271.Taoist_Secrets_of_Love
ATTENTION: the book fails to underline that you ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS store the chi to the lower Dan Tian, and never let it gather on the head.Besides that, and the bad editing and the silly oranges and stuff (you'll see what I'm talking about) the book is excellent.
The juice could have been put in twenty pages or so, but this is how the market still works, unfortunately.
The quantity of pages is still a major factor for the price of a book, when, in my humble opinion, a book should be priced on the quality of its content, even if that content can be put in just one single page.Now, after I've said all that, the book is priceless, along with Awakening the Healing Energy of the Tao
A lot of what this book informed me I was practicing on my own unsuccessfully for years.
It wasn't until a huge failure in my practice of saving my seed for 6 months and despersing it in a unloving relationship where I finally decided to consult the masters and face the facts.
THis book has detailed information and first and foremost it is comforting to know you are not the only one who is facing the same challenges and sensing the same abilities.
This book is certainly not for everybody but I recommend it to young jedi's who are aiming to use the force in positive ways.
I call it "my purple bible". Not an easy read, but an excellent reference book! No matter what kind of lover you are, this will make you better. This way of living builds better men (and ladies love it!). There's an American version that's easier to get. Look for Mantak Chia.
In this book the authors demonstrate that they are experts of the conservation and circulation of sexual energy.
This book really needs to include some important warnings: 1) These are advanced energetic practices of the Taoist system.
If you found this book because you are interested in sexuality but don’t know anything about Taoism, don’t do these practices before you learn more about the taoist system first.
When the sexual energy is circulated and the microcosmic orbit is not open, these practices can leave you psychologically damaged and/or have various other dangerous side-effects (psychosis, headaches, diseases, …).I would recommend to not do these practices at all.
One of the hardest thing to do today is to find a worthy Master,Mantak Chia is just that...i've started reading "Cultivating Sexual Energy" because i find it intriguing, but i have found it to be another step into unveiling the hidden reality of our being,I've succesfully mastered 30% of the book, it took me a year, but it is worth it, and am venturing further into understanding of this human body that we posses for shortwhile, much thanks to Mantak Chia.
EsotericaMantak Chia's book is accessible and easy to follow. The exercises are explained clearly and there are many helpful illustrations. Some of the assertions do require more than a bit of suspension of disbelief, though. Given that he promises to reveal all secrets, it seems counterintuitive that he would then write poetically or metaphorically to the detriment of clarity. Despite that, the book is an easy and entertaining read. I'll reserve judgment on whether it's any more than that.
Awfully written, but still...
I read this book because it came recommended and while some of the claims are rather wobbly, I found it very helfpful nonetheless. I agree with the general principles outlined.The reason I did not finish this book is for two reasons. This is not a book I will simply read and put on the shelf, but one for reference. There is also a part with a lot of personal experiences from several people which I find uninteresting and I have little intention on reading those.
It was just too outlandish for me.. but interesting nonetheless
Excellent book...Very very informative
Prirucnik za kultivisanje seksualne energije. Ako imate problem sa energijom, mozda je kultivisanje seksualne energije resenje
This was a game changer. It really put sex and health in perspective for me... I will read more of his stuff and delve more into Sexual Kung Fu
Men's version. Every guy should know this book.
