https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55352.Brain_Droppings
I was in my high school English class, when our instructor wanted us to choose a book to read, and afterwards, write the author with questions that came up during the reading.
I chose "Brain Droppings" as I enjoyed George Carlin's stand-up routine and had seen him live before.
The book was hilarious, as expected.After reading, I wrote Mr. Carlin with a series of questions that came up during the reading.
It was a random day in July that same year when I opened my mailbox, and I had a large envelope from "George Carlin Productions".
They just want the good stuff; the shiny stuff; the electronic stuff.So when you get right down to it, your house is nothing more than a place to keep your stuff .
Gotta have the most stuff.So you keep gettin' more and more stuff, and puttin' it in different places.
Actually, your parents threw that stuff out long ago.So now you got a houseful of stuff.
You gotta bring an even smaller version of your stuff.
Actually, your friend's sister probably has her own dildos.By the way, if you go to the beach while you're visiting the sister, you're gonna have to bring--that's right--an even smaller version of your stuff: the 'fifth version.' Cigarettes and wallet.
"My motto? "F**k hope". P.S. In case you're wondering, I'm a joyful individual [...] I'm a personal optimist, but a skeptic about all else"Carlin efficiently kicks away all the crutches we use to justify the stupid things we live with.
I'm listened to the audio book edition, read by Carlin himself.
Since so much of his humor relies on the delivery, I think this was the best way to appreciate it.
I am going to try to read his book, When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops?
& I'll see how that goes.The book is really just a bunch of his regular comedic material.
It was good to listen to at the end of a frustrating day.
Not sure what the other drivers thought about that.
Probably thought I was crazy - maybe that's why the drive seemed to fly by.
“No matter how you care to define it, I do not identify with the local group. Planet, species, race, nation, state, religion, party, union, club, association, neighborhood improvement committee; I have no interest in any of it. I love and treasure individuals as I meet them, I loathe and despise the groups they identify with and belong to.”Reread this via audio while doing mountains of laundry earlier. I read it in print a few years ago, but UNsurprisingly, the audio is better. I miss George Carlin.
So when i took this book, i was looking forward to a lot of laughs that makes me think.
So, the book in effect looked like George Carlin's twitter account with brainy one liners that were more a 'yeah-funny' than laugh out loud.The book has 3 types of themes - one based on language and word play which is joke book material.
The other is a rant on state of affairs/human ineptitude - which without modulation sounds like a rant.The third is scenario based imagination - which draws the laughs.
Maybe, there doesnt exist a humour book within a standup comedian.
Actually, I think that class was called Religion.
”Brain Droppings” is little more than a random collection of bits largely taken from Carlin’s most popular comedy album ”A Place for My Stuff” without narrative arc, segue ways, or even a framework on which to hang them.
Much of Carlin’s stuff is timeless because he mixes in liberal doses of philosophical musings with the trivia of day to day life.
The book is an excellent primer but you would be better and very well-served to listen to the direct source material – his 20 or so albums (listen to the 70s stuff as well, it is just as funny now))
This is fun to dip in and out of but I just feel like George Carlin is funnier when you actually listen to him/watch him. This doesn't capture his wit very well.
I don't think that many colleges accept dissertations on comedians but hey, if they do, I have a kick ass one in the works.So I don't really remember the first time I heard George Carlin's stand-up, some time looooong ago, but the earliest I recall is when my dad got a double-cd collection of his stand-up and put it on when we went to the drive-in theater (who still does that?).
He was still sarcastic, he was still funny as hell, and he talked about all of the things that made me smirk.The first joke I remember really getting attached to, "Hey fadda, if the lord can do anything, could he create a boulder so heavy that even he couldn't lift it?
Absolutely hilarious!!
I was a big fan of George Carlin and his somewhat sarcastic humor for years so when I saw this book I couldn't resist picking it up.
Definitely the George I remember and made me miss him all the more.
I just couldn't stop laughing for a lot of this.
Talk about rolling on the floor laughing, of course it's done so much better from George himself though.
Highly recommend picking this one up for a good laugh but if you are unfamiliar with his comedy be warned he can be a bit vulgar if that would offend you.
Rtc
If you like sarcastic, mean and irreverent humor you might enjoy this.
The first 25 pages or so I would snicker at and hope it would get better.
From page 150 or so until the end of the book I was skimming though long stretches.
It was near the end of the book and frankly he had lost me by that point.
Usually I put down a book that I'm not enjoying but I had heard such good things about this one and I wanted to give it every chance I could.
I read a few pages in the middle, including the part about the very strange phoneomenon known as sleeping, and ever since then, I always wanted to get it from the library and read the whole thing.Well, finally, I DID!
Similar to my experience reading the book, I got quite a few chuckles but felt I was spending a lot of time staring at the computer screen waiting for GC to say something funny.
But with the book, I could speed through the dull parts and re-read the funny parts, etc.
the strange thing was, I actually preferred the book!Something special to note was the section on Animal Instincts (starting in page 236).
No filler, no fat, no "brain droppings," as it were.There are a million laughs and "ah ha!
What I like about this is that we get to see the mind of a great comic at work in the initial "thinking out loud" stage -- throwing every idea at us, as though he had written down on little scraps of paper and then compiled every good and not-so-good half-baked idea he'd ever birthed.
What I don't like about this is, well, the very same thing.I know, before you say it, I realize the book is called Brain Droppings.It's probably weird that, if this were half as long and subjected to the same rigor he gave to his standup material, I would probably have given this four stars.
Carlin was a master of words, which is his blessing and curse.
It's impossible to imagine comedians such as Mitch Hedberg and Steven Wright existing without Carlin's example.
Still, this is my kind of humor: smart, insightful and witty.
The fact that Carlin uses such foul language in between the jokes is kind of off-putting; such language generally doesn't bother me, but it's odd to hear him rant about precision and accuracy in language and then wield profanity like a blunt object at the end of every sentence.
Huge fan of George Carlin's stand-up comedy; in fact, he's in my top three.
But Brain Droppings was a letdown, of sorts.
The ideas and witticisms presented by Carlin were too inconsistent, meaning there were far more "sighs" than laugh-out-loud moments.
Having read the book more than a decade after its release may have played into this as well, considering many of the references are quite dated (pagers, fax machines, Dukakis, etc.)If you're a die-hard Carlin fan and must consume everything he ever published, go ahead and read it.
But this book was a big disappointment.
There are some small essays that are really good, despite often being not originally new material, things you've heard him say before.
But most of the rest is comprised of one-liners, lists of words, list of fictional book-titles, sometimes an eyebrow is raised, sometimes a smile is just around the corner, but the book isn't as good as it is made to be.
Maybe I had entirely wrong ideas what the book would be, and certainly, I didn't picture it to be this.
Despite of all that, I worked my way through it, telling myself it would get better.
Sir George Cardin gets an incredible ability of observating things. I laughed out loud a lot while reading this book, but some parts were quite hard to grasp his jokes, tho. These jokes might be a little rough, dark for some and yet despite his bitterly violent humor, bet that one still found some interesting points of view which worth to think.So, why dont you do yourself a favor and read this funny nonsense one 😉
This book induced absolutely hysterical laughing fits, so much that the other people in my house would come to check on me and make sure I was alright, only to have my hilarity spread to them without even hearing more than one or two words, which was all I could get out before cracking up again. My husband and I saw Carlin do stand-up about 5 years ago, and he was great, but this book is AWESOME!!! If you like Carlin, read it.
Even though he claims at the start of the book to really be an optimist, I can't help but think it would have been hard to come up with most of his material without being a little bitter.
In typical Carlin fashion, he ridicules many of the stupid things that people in society say and do.
One of my favorite parts of the book was "A Place for My Stuff." I have never been materialistic, so I appreciated his ridicule of people who place so much value on material possessions.
This book was less political than his other material, and that is one reason why I found it lacking.
I miss George Carlin. I wonder what he would have made of the world we live in now, especially considering how much he disliked the America of his own time. I imagine he would be just as pissed off as he is in this book.At times reflective, at times sociopathic, and always pretty random, this is a collection of Carlin's random thoughts, from global warming to Baby boomers, to oxymoronic words. It's almost better read out loud, to share the laughs with someone else.
He was just a rotten guy with a dirty mouth.Bruce was edgy for a cause, and though his mission to push the margins of what could be said publicly cost him his mental health and pushed him toward addiction and subsequent death, he paved the way for others who were talking about far more than comedy to be able to stand up in the USA and say things that Senator McCarthy and his merry band of red-baiters would never have wanted them to be allowed to say.
He said, "Fuck hope".As for the late Mr. Carlin, I would change that second word to his own name.
I think that the late George Carlin was probably one of the funniest men who ever graced the entertainment industry.
This book is typical Carlin.......irreverant, sometimes profane, clever as hell, and an inducer of belly laughs.
It is made up of little vignettes and one liners which will make you pass milk through your nose if your are unlucky enough to be drinking it at the time you are reading.
He could take a common situation and turn it into a psychedelic experience.
We lost a great talent when he passed.......thank heavens he put down some of his best material in writing for our amusement.
George Carlin was one of my favorite comedians, and I was so disappointed and upset when he died in 2008.
There aren’t too many books that I really take a lot of time into reading.
This is a book that you can read in small increments, and put down and be satisfied, and pick it right back up 20 minutes later.
This is just a notebook of all of George Carlins best observations on life.
George Carlin really makes you think with every sentence, and is a very good book to keep around for bathrooms, and waiting rooms.
As with all of Carlin's stuff, some of this is hilarious, and some of it is just so-so. I happen to really like him because he says exactly what he thinks, and he ponders things most of us never consider. And he's not afraid of offending anyone. I myself have been on occasion offended by some of his stuff, but I still like him anyway.My favorite sections in all of his books are the Short Takes. That's where I get the best laffs!
Still reading, but I have to say what a profound effect George Carlin has had in my life. I know, its cheesy, but its true. My dad introduced me to George when I was 9. Good parenting decision? Probably not. My first record was "What am I doing in New Jersey?" Actual vinyl LOL. George changed my relationship with words forever. It impacts my life every single day...and not just because I have potty mouth....The day he died I sat down and wept like a baby.
Brain Droppings is a collection of materials that George Carlin used for his stand-up comedy. Filled with hilarious, thought-provoking, and sometimes silly ideas and stories, this book is perfect to read after a long day at work or school. My favorite part was the story of a tribe leader first introduced Ritual Human Sacrifice; it was a totally new and hilarious piece of writing.I highly recommend the audiobook version read by the author himself if you want a full Carlin Impact.
In George we trust. Carlin was the master of both summing up, tearing down, and tuning in to humanity's foibles, goofy rules and attitudes, and helping us to examine life and society from a different perspective. The man was brilliant when it came to the nuances of language and how word choice shapes our thoughts and outlooks in life.
The usual. Carlin being hilarious and all. I find it hard to rate his books though. I recommend When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops? over this one.
One of the funniest books ever put together. Also check out Napalm and Silly Putty. Crazy good.
