https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/624380.Rip_Van_Winkle_and_Other_Stories
Well, I didn't actually finish this. I only read Rip Van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow. They were so boring.
I enjoyed "Rip Van Winkle" and "Legend of Sleepy Hollow" but I found the other stories to be a little dull. This could very well be because the narrator was somewhat dull and I often found my mind wandering.
Irving has a large vocabulary, indicative of his time, but his writing was very easy for me to get through and was quite enjoyable."The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip Van Winkle" actually take place in America (or, I suppose, the New World).
These two have the most compelling premises and Irving concentrates on the setting and atmosphere to great effect.
"Mountjoy" does take place in the Hudson Valley, but there is almost no setting description.
The whole thing basically takes place in the character's head, and there is no ending.
I picked this audio book up from the library because one of the short stories on it was The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, which is our bookclub selection for the month.
I really liked Washington Irving's writing style, and I could just imagine readers in his day delightfully frightened at his suspenseful and clever stories and anticipating new releases.
He has a way of writing in which the reader feels like he is hearing the story told by an actual witness of events.
I particularly liked the Legend of Sleepy Hollow and I appreciated reading the original story that has inspired so many adaptations.
I bought this book for my daughter who likes spooky stories.
I tried to read it to her on Halloween night and she fell asleep in about 2 minutes, so I continued to read the stories to myself.
I had forgotten (or more likely I did not then realize) how wonderfully humorous and not at all scary the stories are.
The language and humor are probably a bit difficult for even a really smart 9-year old, so I probably won't try to read these with her just yet.
But I definitely enjoyed reading this collection of stories.
I'll give 3 or 4 choices and a couple days on Facebook, and then pop in whatever the consensus is.I think I would have liked Washington Irving quite a bit more if I would have read him instead of listened to him.
There were several points where I lost focus early on, tried backing up the CD, promptly lost focus again, and remained lost the rest of the way through.I enjoyed immensely those stories with which I was already familiar: The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, The Devil and Tom Walker, and Rip Van Winkle.I'll come back and give the other stories a chance sometime.
I found it interesting the story that gives its name to this book was one of the shorter ones. I have to say I liked the idea behind the first few stories but I just couldn't get my head round the writing style, my just wanted to wonder. I read all the stories but feel maybe I should give them another chance at some point.
The remaining three stories: The Spectre Bridegroom, The Pride of the Village and Mountjoy.The Spectre Bridegroom has the spooky feeling that the title conveys although there is a sad circumstance, it ends with a happily-ever-after.The Pride of the Village was a typical story.
He is an arrogant twit - for the most part - happily living in the delusion of his own superiority.
The overall style of narration seemed to drift off into side trips that seem like more extraneous wordage than actually necessary to the development of the story.
But that is more likely due to the time-period Irving was writing in.
3.5 starsThis was a collection of short stories.
I was most looking forward to reading The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
It was interesting reading the short story of a well-loved cartoon that I grew up on.
We follow Icabod Crane and his untimely demise.The final short story was very bland and didn't really conclude of anything besides prepare for life and don't wing it.
Rip Van Winkle was the first short story; interesting yet odd.
I can't say the nap didn't do him some good in regards to this wife.
All in all and enjoyable collection.
These were pretty good. I was worried that the kids were tuning out, but they stuck with them and I even caught Sophie giggling when Mr. Mountjoy is corrected by Miss Somerville. They enjoyed the ghost stories quite a bit as well.
I got this book from a second hand shop in Inverness, Scotland.Read it in the Netherlands.It was a nice book to read.
This is an enjoyable collection of short stories from Irving the "Father of American Literature". They are a lovely window into Irving's time and place and Romanticism literature.
*Reto de lectura* [39/50]  Libro para leer en Halloween Unas buenas y otras no tanto. la mejor sin duda es "La aventura del estudiante alemán"
He was a lazy young man that would do literally anything to not do any of his own work and one day goes for a walk and meet a strange man who gives him a strange drink and makes Rip Van Winkle sleep for 20 (or around that) years.
I think the story would ave been better if the reader didn't know from the beginning that the man who went to meet with the family wasn't the intended bridegroom and if the reader was ticked into think he was actually a ghost.
Though most of these are dubbed “scary” stories, almost all have a logical, non-mystical answer to the supposed supernatural event (except Rip Van Winkle, he just has to learn his lesson the hard way).
“Rip Van Winkle,” “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow,” “The Spectre Bridegroom,” “The Pride of the Village,” and “Mountjoy.” I was quite surprised that the story I was least interested in reading of this collection, “The Spectre Bridegroom” turned out to be my favorite.
In all, a very pleasing short story collection, not really scary at all, and I might need to go find some more Irving to read.Notes on content: No language issues.
How many of us read Washington Irving in school?
Now, how many of you have read him since high school or college?
I didn't re-read him either until my niece started attending Washington Irving Middle School.Well, I just finished this edition and I thoroughly enjoyed the experience.
And in "Rip Van Winkle" and especially "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" he wrote the first truly great American humorous stories.
Ichabod Crane and his struggle for love is a great story.
The trouble is we are forced to read Irving when we are young, and he did not write for youth but for adults.
I recently read two humorous books that were written about a hundred years apart.
This one, short stories by Washington Irving (the first American to make his living solely by writing), was written in the early 1800s.
The other was a book by PG Wodehouse, an Englishman who published in the early 1900s.
I don't normally read humor and satire and I can't help comparing the two.
His brothers Peter and Ebeneezer probably inspire the character Ebeneezer Scrooge and Rip Van Winkle.
Rip Van Winkle is probably supposed to be Peter Styuvesant.
He is probably a zombie waking from death.
The title probably means Peter Sans Tinkle.
Tinkle or Wolf is the name for his dog or boat or cow.
Peter Stuyvesant has a peg for a leg just as a Captain Hook does.
So perhaps Peter Stuyvesant represants Captain Hook and Peter Pan. Tinker Bell perhaps represents his dog or cow.
So perhaps Rip Van Winkle is a sheephard.
So everyone knows the story of Rip Van Winkle, but I had never really read Washington Irving.
Earlier this year, I read The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and really enjoyed it, so I decided to delve deeper into the work of Washington Irving.
I realized that while I remembered the highlights of the Rip Van Winkle tale, I had forgotten how horrible his wife was and Rip's reputation in his village before his adventure in the mountains.
I enjoyed all of the stories in this book and realize that I need to fill in other gaps in the classics.
These were wonderful stories to hear read to me by a talented narrator. I tries to read Washington Irving years ago but never was able to get into the language. I have changed my tune. Ichabod's tale came alive this time as did Rip Van Winkle. However, my favorite was The Specter Bridegroom. How have I never heard of this story??? I'm no longer intimidated by Mr. Irving's hallowed literary status. I agree with it.
Very much enjoyed reading "Rip Van Winkle," long one of my favorite tales. "Sleepy Hollow" was also fun since we know the storyline so well from popular culture. The other stories - "The Spectre Bridegroom," "The Pride of the Village" and "Mountjoy" - were a bit more of a slog. More parables than actual tales. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the archaic vocabulary used and learned many a new word and turn of a phrase. Well worth the time invested.
I have to admit that I read this book because I loved the movie Sleepy Hollow and I was hoping to find some stories with that same 'ghost stories from the past' vibe. I knew the actual tale differs from the story in the movie but I was rather hoping that there was something more than this. I was a bit disappointed and I found the stories quite boring, to be honest. The writing style wasn't my cup of tea either.Definitely not something for me.
Ok- Rip Van is as amazing as it was when I read it at age 8. Sleepy Hollow- beautiful writing, but no scary blond twin girls and levitating ghostly women a la Tim Burton. Spectre Bridegroom is my favorite- the kind of story perfect for Halloween night, read with candle by bedside. Mount Kiljoy- I'm sorry, I know this is cheating, I cannot finish the last story. It's way too boring. I know this is very un-literary of me. Sew buttons.
Whilst I enjoyed the premise of these short stories (particularly the first two), I just didn't enjoy Irving's style. Early American authors seem to have this need to overdose on description and use ridiculously florid language. I've found this with Melville and Hawthorne too. Also, I hated the main character of the last story - what a pompous idiot!It was worth reading as a collection, but if it had been longer I'd have been sorely tempted to give up based on his style of writing.
I just re-read Rip Van Winkle. I last read it in the library of Southeast Elementary School. Needless to say, some of the smarts of the story were lost on me then. I love how Irving frames the story. I love how memory, lore, and history are interrelated, here. And I love love love this quote:"Everything's changed, and I'm changed, and I can't tell what's my name or who I am!"
It was an entertaining book of short stories. I actually didn't make it through the last story, by about halfway through I was just done with the way Washington Irving wrote. The story of Rip Van Winkle is interesting, and I had never actually read the actually story for Legend of Sleepy Hollow and the Headless Horseman. I recommend reading it once.
As an audiobook, it doesn't quite hold my attention. Although, hearing the original stories does add something. There is a lot more to the stories than the popularized versions, and the original does add something. The stories make more sense now.
I had never read the Legend of Sleepy Hollow nor the story of Rip Van Winkle. They were delightful stories. I was surprised to find them so short; I wished they had been longer.The book contains several very short stories (9?). I listened to it.
My memory of reading Washington Irving in school anthologies was that of ponderous prose. I didn't expect the "gamesome spirit", an Irving description. This collection of stories produced some snorts of laughter, the satisfying recognition of a character, and happy sighs at melodious phrases.
I have heard allusions to Rip Van Winkle, and to Sleepy Hollow since childhood, but had never gotten the full story until reading this. The stories are intricately written and deliciously haunting. Washington Irving seems to write with a little bit of the style of Dickens as well as H.G. Wells.
