https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225750.Selected_Poems
One of my favourite poems in it was this one : To be in loveIs to touch with a lighter hand.In yourself you stretch, you are well.You look at thingsThrough his eyes.A cardinal is red.A sky is blue.Suddenly you know he knows too.He is not there butYou know you are tasting togetherThe winter, or a light spring weather.His hand to take your hand is overmuch.Too much to bear.You cannot look in his eyesBecause your pulse must not sayWhat must not be said.When heShuts a door-Is not there_Your arms are water.And you are freeWith a ghastly freedom.You are the beautiful halfOf a golden hurt.You remember and covet his mouthTo touch, to whisper on.Oh when to declareIs certain Death!Oh when to apprizeIs to mesmerize,To see fall down, the Column of Gold,Into the commonest ash.
The first African-American to win the Pulitzer Prize (1950).Poems of war, black community, and life. We real cool. WeLeft school. WeLurk late. We Strike straight. WeSing sin. We Thin gin. WeJazz June. We Die soon.
(from "The Anniad")Yet Brooks's verse is equally powerful when plainspoken, as in "The Last Quatrain of the Ballad of Emmett Till" and "The Ballad of Rudolph Reed," two of the effective poems about American racism ever written.Maestro of every conceivable meter, from the ballad to the sonnet and beyond, Gwendolyn Brooks deserves better than to be labeled "the finest black poet of [her] generation," as Robert F.
Kiernan's front-cover blurb labels her: Brooks is one of the finest poets of her generation, even of her century, period.
sadly more like 2.5 ☆long, rhymed poems just really aren't my thing

4.5 stars! I mean, it's Gwendolyn Motherfucking Brooks.
But I do remember the specific poem, "a song in the front yard," and I do remember reciting my favorite stanza: "I stayed in the front yard all my life./I want a peek at the back/Where it's rough and unattended and hungry weed grows/A girl gets sick of a rose."Of course, I didn't know about symbolism or other poetic devices at the time.
And I loved the last line "A girl gets sick of a rose." I still love Gwendolyn Brooks.
Brooks is one of the poets whose work I know; however, I never read one of her collection in its entirety.
Gwendolyn Brooks should have been our Inaugural poet, if Clinton valued literature more, politics less.
We" alone stands as a prosodic and vocal breakthrough in American letters, the voice of the street in spondees, with the line-end punctuating the street pause.
Rappers would do well to master Brooks' spondees here.
As for inaugural poets, no politician since JFK had the political smarts to appoint an opponent--a lifelong Republican--to the post, perhaps because Frost's fame did not deter from the Office of President.
Now no one poet dominates like that, though Billy Collins is close.
And Gwendolyn Brooks made up in skill what she lacked in fame.
This is the most well-known set of Gwendolyn Brooks' poetry. Many of these poems were published in various magazines and literary journals, and now they're finally brought together in one collection.— — — — —I'd like to thank Ryan from HarperCollins for sending me the anniversary edition to enjoy.
These poems were moving and compulsively readable (which is saying a lot for me and poetry). Filled with personal reflections, mid-century African American history, and unsurprisingly beautiful language. My copy is completely marked up with all my favorites.⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
These poems were moving and compulsively readable (which is saying a lot for me and poetry). Filled with personal reflections, mid-century African American history, and unsurprisingly beautiful language. My copy is completely marked up with all my favorites.⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Some of my favorites were, "The Preacher: Ruminates Behind the Sermon", "The Vacant Lot", "The Ballad of Rudolph Reed", and "To Be in Love". From The Aeneid to Civil Rights, her poetic voice was as unique and varied as her themes.
We wonder! But not well! Not for a minute! Since Number Five is out of the bathroom now, We think of lukewarm water, hope to get in it.Gwendolyn Brooks is AWESOME.
Beautiful poems covering a wide range, and not always beautiful in that way.Brooks references ballads frequently, sometimes by actually using the word in the title, but sometimes just by writing in a form and vocabulary that sounds like it could be an old ballad of the Irish countryside and they are very pretty.
Then you have We Real Cool, with a shortness and an odd rhythm to it, disjointed in a way that should be halting but it makes everything faster.Brooks' comfort with multiple forms is admirable, but what seems even more significant for me is a grace and charity with which she treats her subjects.
So even sometimes when the subjects stray from beauty, Brooks brings it along herself.
Enjoyable collection of poems from her first book up to her work in the mid-sixties.
I found her poems most compelling when she addressed the lives of people that surround her.
She draws a vivid portrait of the life so well.
I also appreciated to her alliteration and word play.
Ironically, the poems for which she won the Pulitzer were the least engaging for me.
They felt too much like academic poetry that requires a Herculean amount of effort to enjoy which is to say they were not much fun, but perhaps this opinion speaks more to my paucity of intellect.
Well, this was just all kinds of gorgeous. The amount of complexity and richness Brooks packs into her poems, mostly about fairly simple subjects, is mind-boggling, and her virtuosic command of startlingly new-feeling language is evident everywhere. I legitimately wept at some of these poems, while others left me feeling I had a lot more thinking to do to get to their roots. Mother-love, woman-love, and love of black lives and beautiful simplicities abound in this volume. A pleasure to read.
Wonderful poems. I'm upset that in school we only read her one short poem with the least political context. These will make you catch your breath. She has a strong eye, and a clever tongue that can travel between nursery rhyme and neglect without ever tipping over into each. She was the best poet of her generation, and we have tried to forget her because her observations are continue to discomfort in their clarity.
This juxtaposition gives the poems a unique essence and place some distance between the narrator and the situations being discussed.
One of the core themes stretching through Brooks' works is the ascension out of poverty (or the desire for this ascension), and the tension between the narrator and the situations reinforces this idea.
The poetry from The Bean Eaters section of the book is the most captivating for me, perhaps because it is the most plainly written.
Overall, what is so stunning about Brooks' work is the contemporary relevance of her themes on racial and economic inequality.
I’m still working through all the poets name-checked in Christian Wiman’s MY BRIGHT ABYSS, one of the best books on faith I’ve ever read.
One of the poets I’d never read, though I was familiar with her famous “We Real Cool” poem (collected here), was Gwendolyn Brooks.
Unlike some of the other poets cited in Wiman’s book, Brooks isn’t primarily a spiritual or religious writer, but her work has a resonance that touches deeper than a mere intellectual reading.
Built on Western poetic tradition and filtered through her experience, Brooks’ SELECTED POEMS carried me far on voice alone and farther still with her empathy.


Brooks' voice is familiar, like one I grew up with in Trenton. And I've had this volume for a long time, evidently (given the now-defunct Borders coupon I've just found bookmarking one page). She swerves effortlessly between vernacular and intellectual voices as a poet of multifarious skill. Sometimes I have trouble getting through the longer poems, because I enjoy reading poetry out loud, but I still gravitate back to Brooks whenever I want to hear something like home (and the rage that comes with having lived in such a place).

After seeing one of her poems featured in the "Mecca Flat Blues" exhibit at the Chicago Cultural Center last week, I decided to come home and read through more of her work. (Not that I've never read Gwendolyn Brooks before, but it's been years.) The following poems took a lot of my attention. I can't say that I liked them all, precisely (due to how sad some of the content made me) but they're provoking: "The Bean Eaters""The Preacher Ruminates Behind the Sermon""The Crazy Woman""The Empty Woman""A Bronzeville Mother Loiters in Mississippi. Meanwhile, A Mississippi Mother Burns Bacon."
I struggle with poetry. But Holy crap I found a poet. One that makes sense, one that distills life and makes it clearer. Makes it MORE. All in bleak, sweet, fairy-tale rhythm. Brooks wrote about racism and abortion in the 40's, before it was cool to spill your private blood all over the page. "Abortions will not let you forget.You remember the children you got that you did not get.The small damp pulps with little or with no hair,The singers and workers that never handled the air."
I found Ms. Brooks' poetry to be a lot more challenging than I had anticipated. I also think that there needs to be a great reader reading this poems to really bring them to life. Even with all the difficulty, you really get a sense of the great power of Ms. Brooks' language. It felt, in many cases, that she really wrestled with what she wanted to say, and that wrestling with language and form produced a very sinewy style.
Illinois Wesleyan graduation, 1998. I was a caterer, but allowed to see most of the speech. Wonderful writer, wonderful sense of humor. Said she wrote short poems because she had to wait all day to get the kids to bed before getting them down on paper, and that's all the length she could keep memorized.
I didn't realize that Gwendolyn Brooks died in 2000. She spoke at an event for a non-profit arts organization in Chicago that I worked for when I was first out of college. I'm glad I got to hear her in person.Found this quick clip today of her reading one of her most famous poems, We Real Cool:http://www.poets.org/viewmedia.php/pr...Poets.org...what a great website!
What we can learn from Gwendolyn Brookes is not really measurable. She truly captures the history of a people, the tragedy of social inequality, the curiousity of being human, the flukes, the flaws, the discoveries that society as a whole makes. Brookes shows her readers a time of growth during depression, a time of hope in unknowingness. She is the most truthful poet I've ever read.
I hate poetry, so stop reading now if that affects your assessment of my review. Brooks is one of the handful of poets I can return to, over and over again, and find something new every time. She is amazingly talented, and perfectly captures the emotion and liveliness of the times she is writing about.
Gwendolyn Brooks is the best English-language poet of the twentieth century, and it is a crying shame that her complete works are not in print. Read this selected if you must, but track down used copies of her entire oeuvre if you have any self-respect.
