https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26722.Act_of_Treason
Vince Flynn wrote a series of thirteen novels staring a fictional CIA agent name Mitch Rapp.
He started with a self-published novel, which did well in the Twin Cities which in turn, led to a traditional book deal for his Mitch Rapp series.
In 2016, the first Mitch Rapp movie, “American Assassin” was release and grossed over $66 million worldwide.Well, this is my first Vince Flynn novel and while it took me a bit to get into it, it eventually pulled me in and grabbed me until the last page.
Another cheap second hand novel I picked up to see what people are reading.I think this is meant to be a crime thriller involving the CIA/FBI etc.
However, it reads almost like a superhero book with one man, Rapp, constantly swooping everywhere and single-handedly saving the day.
It was quite predictable apart from the odd twist-a bit like a Jack Bauer scenario; lone agent constantly going off book to bypass bureaucracy and everyone else trying to clean up his messes whilst looking on with a degree of admiration.
There was a lot of swearing and blasphemy in this and some sexual content.
There is a lot of violence including torture scenes.
The bar has been set quite high by this series and whilst nothing really changes here too much from the usual outline it falls a bit flat overall and is really let down by the ending.The story starts with a terrorist exploding a bomb killing the wife of a candidate for the presidency and some other less important people but not all is as it seems.
From the off you knew the overall outline and where things would go.
(view spoiler)[Give the man a gun and let him get bang banging and then also regurgitate an ending from another book where poison is put into someone’s drink to kill them easily (hide spoiler)].
We open here with a shattering assassination attempt.
Assumed to be the actions of terrorists when Irene Kennedy "looks into things" the pillars of the government and indeed the basis of a lot of assumptions are shaken.Who will Kennedy, Director of the CIA turn to?Guess.Mitch Rapp again thrown into harms way and handed a hot potato no one should have to handle does what's needed.
We have an ending that leaves some...well some loose ends, but I assume that's by design.So, I drop the rating to 4 stars, but still that's good.
Good book, enjoy.
This terrorist act appears to be committed by a professional from Greece who has Russian ties.
But not everything is the way it appears.
It takes super-CIA-agent Mitch Rapp and the head of the CIA, Irene Kennedy, to unwind the tendrils of the plot that leads back home.
This is a deft, fast-moving thriller that takes place in the arena of global politics.Pros:Great writing.
Great action.
Great plotting.Cons:Flynn occasionally lets the story get bogged down in backstory.
Warning: This novel is flooded with testosterone.
Mitch Rapp is an expert, brutal assassin.
This novel is not for the faint of heart.
My friend handed me two Vince Flynn books a year and a half ago, saying that I'd like them.
I stared at the plot descriptions skeptically, wondering how my friend could have confused me for an action book reader.
But then I couldn't stop reading, and found that I was completely enjoying myself.Vince Flynn's perspective is "24" + "The West Wing" so the capture and interrogation of terrorism suspects is complemented by Washington officials protesting possible illegal action.
Along the way, the ramifications of anti-terrorism initiatives and corruption within Washington politicos are worth thinking about.
I enjoy reading a thriller once in a while and have wanted to give Vince Flynn a shot, mainly because he is from my hometown in Minnesota.
As I was reading "Act of Treason" I felt that I was getting a genuine sneak peak into the U.S. intel community and the tricky business they face daily -- something which fascinates me.
Flynn's writing style remains true to this particular class of books -- very action-based and to the point, no flowery prose or introspective character building here.
I have another one of Vince Flynn's books and look forward to reading that one as well.
If I was condensing a review of this book into a bumper-sticker, it would be 'Rapp Is RAD.'Mitch Rapp is my new favorite CIA 'bad hombre,' replacing John Clark and faithful sidekick/Son-in-Law Ding Chavez.
This curveball on the usual 21st century cautionary tale has Americans hiring a terrorist - more accurately an assassin - to kill other Americans to rig a Presidential election.
When the FBI and Secret Service get bogged down in the swamp of political red tape and due process, the CIA calls 'BS' and sends-in Rapp, and the bad-guy body count begins piling-up.
In my opinion, this should have been the first book in the Rapp series to be made into a movie; but nope, they chose Consent to Kill!
What would happen if one of the Secret Service Guards felt that something was wrong, and either the explosion that claimed the President elect's wife should have claimed his instead.
And, what if that same Secret Service person recalls a moment prior to the blast that makes everything that occurred appear wrong or fixed?As usual, the Director of the CIA would call Mitch Rapp in to figure out the truth!
And, who will be taken down!Another awesome political thriller in the Mitch Rapp series (#9)
Tom Clancys Jack Ryan was great, but he immersed you in techno babble... John LeCarre gave you insight into the spy game, and Robert Ludlum made you a Jason Bourne fan, but now I am infatuated with Mitch Rapp, Vince Flynns man in the CIA. Forget about how the damn thing works, just get on the damn roller coaster and hang on... I have been on a drunken Flynn stupor for two days and finished Act of Treason and his folluw up novel.... Love it! Warning if you pick it up you wont put it down until you finish!!!!
The character relationships are deep and complex, and the dialogue is probably better than just about any other author I've read.
One of the most loved narrators out there, it is true that you could probably enjoy him reading the phone book.
Mitch Rapp kicks butt in this book, and it is awesome.
I am so sick of characters who are weak, either mentally or physically, and always ends up failing or being victimize.
Flynn writes characters that are strong yet have weaknesses that don't turn them into victims.
Political thriller starring rogue CIA operative Mitch Rapp.
Usually Jeffery Deaver or James Patterson has written something new by that point, so I just figure out what Lincoln Rhyme or Alex Cross is up to in their ever more convolutedly-plotted but thinly-written respective series.
This time Lincoln Rhyme cost a cool 27 bucks in hardcover and Alex Cross was, I guess, on vacation from the bestseller list, so I ended up with Mitch Rapp.
Sorry, Mitch Rapp, but this was our first and last airport flirtation.
Unfortunately I was disappointed with this book for one specific reason. I think it had probably 10 times as much profanity as all of his previous Mitch Rapp books combined. Having an F-bomb on almost every other page was really disappointing.
It was the usual slow start up to the halfway mark.
Can't give details but since I'm the only one who thought it was a lame way to end the book, I don't see the point in giving any, even with a spoiler alert.I hope the rest of the books bring back the Vince Flynn I've come to love.Update added November 26, 2015:I only realized this book continues in the next installment, Protect and Defend and it would have been good to know that before I posted my review.
However, having DNF'd Protect and Defend, I stand by my posted review.
Insightful, Educational & Intense!!! A Fascinating Read!!! I Loved It!!!
Act of Treason opens up not too long from where we left Mitch Rapp in Consent to Kill.
During his final weeks, a Motorcade carrying Presidential Candidate Josh Alexander is attacked by a car bomb, killing his wife and wounding many others, but Alexander survives the attack and is carried to victory by a sympathy vote, but the attacker is still unknown.
CIA Director Irene Kennedy and Special Agent Skip McMahon receive intelligence on Washington's most powerful players, and Mitch Rapp is called back into action to hunt down the bomber and find out who hired him to kill Alexander.Filled with non-stop action and suspense, left with a cliffhanger that I'm guessing will pick right up in the next book, Protect and Defend.
Another in the "Mitch Rapp" series of thrillers.
In this one, a terrorist sets off a bomb in the motorcade of a candidate for President in the middle of an election campaign.
The bomb kills the candidate's wife and a Secret Service officer.
Rapp captures the killer just as he is about to be killed by some Russian mafia types, and brings him back to the US, along with one of his almost-killers.
Political intrigue follows, including the election of the candidate out of sympathy.
Rapp, of course, would have simply liked to torture the bomber to get the information he needs, but is stymied by a bunch of effete civil-liberties loving types.
good and fast
It also had an anticlimactic climax.The author seems to think Cyprus is part of Greece.
No the Greek Cypriots and Greeks are close but the Greeks don't run things in Nicosia or Larnica.The author's English is not very good.
For instance, in Chapter 26 we read, `The people who flocked to San Diego sunk their money into real estate.' Ok everybody, repeat after me, ring rang rung, sing sang sung, sink sank sunk.
They sank their money into real estate, not sunk.
Look at the scowl on his face in the author photo.
Another book by the late Vince Flynn. Book 9 in The Mitch Rapp series. In this one, we have an attack on a presidential candidate and his entourage just two weeks before the election. He survives but not everyone is so lucky. Then what first was thought to be terrorism begins to look like another kind of hit. Mitch Rapp is dispatched to try and sort it out. Very interesting storyline, but probably not as much real action as in some of the other books in this series. That's fine by me, because the story is so interesting. Good book!
When returning from AZ this summer, my MIL lent me Protect and Defend for the airplane ride. I was surprised by how much I enjoyed that novel and so started reading the series from the beginning. I've now caught up to the book I read first.I enjoyed this novel even though I found it quite predictable, following the pattern set by the other books in the series. As my wife with a sleepy brain just said "formulaic but fun. Just like Rainbow Fairies."
Another well written, fast paced, thriller by Mr. Flynn. I enjoy reading this series as much as I like the Jack Reacher series by Dean Koontz. The plot is twisted enough that you need to pay attention or get lost. The characters are interesting and the scenes are described in just enough details to allow you picture them without gettimg annoyed with minutiae.
Wow! I thought Consent to Kill was the best of the series, but this topped it. Although Mitch is still mourning his wife Anna, at least it hasn't dragged down the series like another author who I won't mention. Mitch is at the top of his game here. Irene Kennedy has a bigger role, which I like as well. And a very dislike letter character from Consent to Kill gets what's coming to him at the end. Overall a very satisfying read. I highly recommend this series!
Mitch Rapp is like James bond as much as he does what he feels right and does not always play by rule.Some excerpts from the book:Washington was the grand stage of espionage and diplomacy, not some backwater, mosquito infested Third World hellhole.
Others killed for a paycheck, like Gazich.-------No, the target was two political candidates.
Did they preach death to Islam and the Arab world?
Nuke the entire Zionist state and push the infidels into the ocean.--------Like all good reporters, I know how to keep politics out of the story.” - - - - - -It made him think of the old adage that sometimes it’s easier to ask for forgiveness than permission.
After the attack, Agent Rapp and many other spies from the CIA and FBI work together to find the person or people responsivle for the killing of the soon-to-be first lady.
Sadly, the assasin fails to achieve his goal on killing the president and know is being held captive by the CIA.
On the way back to the United States, Agent Rapp gets calls from the Greek prime minister ordering him to release the terrorist.
Agent Rapp ignores the prime minister and continues back to the United States.
The nation is thrown into turmoil when Presidential candidate Josh Alexander's motorcade is ambushed and the car is rocked by a car bomb killing Alexander's wife and many others.
The FBI and CIA are hot on the case.
The CIA director is presented with classified information pointing to some of the most powerful players in Washington.
His mission leads him eventually back to the heart of the Nation's capital and to the Oval Office...The writing is as fast-paced and as dramatic as ever.
The plot is the typical political intrigue found in Flynn's previous books, nevertheless quite satisfying.
Mitch Rapp's role is intriguing and cleverly created.
Rapp-he just is so cool with a no BS attitude for politics or stupid things get in the way of taking care of business and making sure America is safe from foreign or domestic enemiesDid you have an extreme reaction to this book?
As always Vince Flynn has taken Mitch for a ride and amazingly Mitch fixes the nation's problems and prevails in the end even though he may not personally get ahead or even come out even, for Mitch its all about America and making sure she's safe and sound and prospering.
* This is book 9 of 13 in Vince Flynn's American Assassin series (with two follow-on's by Kyle Mills).* Like Memorial Day this volume spends much of its' time in the White House. Mitch Rapp is everywhere and nowhere at the same time--analyzing an attack on the presidential-elect motorcade thru "the wrong prism". * If you liked the movie Swordfish (John Travolta) then you won't be disappointed here. Too, the story-line is reminiscent of an old Colombo TV episode where the President-Elect was 'collared' on inauguration day with evidence of "...a single bite of cheese." (I'm dating myself :-) )
This book is about a CIA assassin named Mitch Rapp.
In this book, the president-elect's wife is killed in a presidential limo bombing meant to take out the president-elect.
Mitch finds the man who killed the mans wife, and delivers him to justice.
Rapp has to overcome the inter workings of DC, and all the politics that surround it.
With potential snitches within the CIA and the houses themselves, Rapp must be incharge of cleaning up the CIA.
This book is really about overcoming adversity in the eyes of fear.
Rapp never backs down from a fight.
I'm giving this four stars not because it was a fantastic book, but because it was exactly the book I wanted it to be.
I've been looking for an audio book that could replicate the old time radio show,  Suspense.
This one did it: short scenes, powerful characters, tough guys, jerks, witticisms, dramatic pauses, action, espionage, mystery, resolution.
I accidentally got the abridged version from my library, so I guess I missed out on some stuff, not sure.
I'll try to get the unabridged version next time I listen to a book from this author.
Because surely there will be a next time!
Oh the Suspense!
