https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/340819.Blood_Music
before he gets booted to the curb with his cardboard box, he surreptitiously injects many of his little cells into his own body so he can continue his experiments in the privacy of his own home.
no one knows - i guess she is the only sped in north america and the noocytes can't be bothered fixing her, and then the mother of the now-gelatinized bad boy scientist - she survives because...
(although if i ever get fired, i am going to inject SO MANY books under my skin so i can read them when i get home.
MOULD, FRANKENSCIENCE AND MIRTHIn Greg Bear's funny and creepy and REALLY insane story, the rogue scientist invents a virus which...
Anyway, the virus eats New York (these things never happen in Nottingham or Albuquerque) which then looks like some giant has draped giant army surplus blankets over it.
Greg Bear's very words - army surplus blankets.
Greg, you're killing me with your blankets!So of course 5 people are immune to the virus, everyone else becomes subsumed within the blankets, and just as in all other apocalypso books and movies, the five people find each other and all of the survivor malarkey goes on apace.
So Greg had to get his survivors to meet somehow (this was before Tinder).
So Vergil Ulam, a not entirely sane scientist working for a biotechnology lab, experiments with lymphocyte (a form of white blood cell) to turn them into smart cells*.
While there are several variants of the noocytes creatures specially design to function in our “macro-world” I imagine a lot of them look kind of like gigantic tofu.
Blood Music is a feast for the imagination, read it!________________* A bit like smartphones I suppose, except they are not phones, nor are they cell phones.
According to my buddy-reader and constant volunteller, Brad, the trilogy was NOT the author's best work, not by far, and I should read this short story.So I did.The story is about a scientist experimenting with biochips (computer chips that can be put in a human body).
(hide spoiler)]The characters were relatively flat (much like in the trilogy) so I'm left also wondering if characterisations are a weak point of this author or if it was deliberate here because it was supposed to be all about the science and the (view spoiler)[old (hide spoiler)] individuals didn't matter.Anyway, nice and creepy story that marks the perfect transition from September to Spooktober.
There is also some cool (though completely bogus) science and theory on observations of time.
The only character worth caring about is the virus!But I had to wade through bad sentence structure, useless characters that you can't empathise with, bad story structure, bad statistics (only 12 people in all of north america survive and of course 3 of them find each other.
Oh, and one is the main character's mom), complete improbabilities, the killing of the main character with no replacement (except the virus and the story is structured around it rather than on it), and the most useless and unfulfilling ending ever.
3.5 stars. Classic SF novel dealing with biotechnology, nanotechnology (including the grey goo hypothesis), the nature of consciousness and artificial intelligence. On my list to re-read in the near future as it has been some time since I first read this. Nominee: British Science Fiction Award for Best NovelNominee: John W. Campbell Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (the original short story WON the award for Best Short Story)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (the original short story WON the award for Best Novelette)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
Al mismo tiempo, desarrolla un proyecto personal basado en si los linfocitos son capaces de pensar por sí mismos, lo que daría lugar a células inteligentes.
Pero Vergil no desea renunciar a este experimento, y para sacarlo del laboratorio no tiene más remedio que inyectarse a sí mismo los linfocitos.
Por lo demás, la historia se desarrolla desde distintos puntos de vista y personajes cotidianos.En resumen, una novela original, que me ha interesado y atrapado en algunos momentos, pero que no me ha entusiasmado.
book *awesome-on-verge-of-omfg* greg bear MUST SPEND MORE TIME STUDYING AUTHORCould you make that slightly more readable for the nice people out there?*negative* understand. possible mean EXTERNAL GROUPINGYeah, pretty much.VERGIL translate CLUSTERS *can-not-translate*I think they mean that it's a good book.pause . . . . . . . . EXTERNAL GROUPING nice? nice from *city-nice-in-country-france*? nice *friendly*? QUERYNice friendly.CLUSTERS need learn MOREYes, quite right.- - End transmission. - -
I don't know enough about hard science to judge the likelihood of any of this novel's events, but from a layman's perspective, they seemed so absurd - and more and more so as the book progresses - that I had a hard time continuing to read past the halfway point.
But if you have little experience with science fiction, I would avoid Blood Music as your first exploration of the genre, unless you have a really strong interest in nanotechnology.Oh and be sure to check your edition for typos before you pick it up - mine was full of them, on almost every page.
Before this Frankensteinian adventure, I'd never read a book by him and I'm feeling like I am definitely missing out.
My interest waned about 70% in but I stuck in there and ended up loving the last 10 or so pages.
Listening to Your Love Is An Island by TALOS while reading the final pages is highly recommended.
"It is the bullet you don’t hear that gets you" Page 196"Thought moves like a dissociation of leaves across a lawn in a breeze." Page 261Other random thoughts...
I also liked how Bear incorporated in real controversy regarding embryonic stem cell research.
Blood Music is built around a great science fiction concept: a man-made virus becomes sentient and starts rebuilding the world to their own specifications.
(Yes, I know that they're technically lymphocytes, but they act and are treated much like a virus throughout.) And to start with, that concept is indeed very promising.
There are some issues dragging down the book as a whole, though.The most immediately obvious thing is that the characters are one dimensional sketches, even the viewpoint characters.
Sure, parts of the book up to that point unrealistic, but I feel fine with labeling some of the things that happen in the last few chapters as magic, pure and simple.
At a certain point, I had to admit that Blood Music ceased to be about science-y horror stuff, and just became a wild, sci-fi horror novel.
And while I liked that, I sort of missed the science part.
And the aspects that actually related to being human, and why that's important.
A lot of that appears to just drop away in the end (which is fairly abrupt).For some reason (gee - the cover?
the synopsis?), I'd had this impression that the book was going to be about crazy Cthulu monsters.
What a let down.I liked Blood Music.
But it leaves a lot to be desired.

HOOOOOOOOOOOLYYYYYY SHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEEEEEEEEETTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTYa en serio, ¿que pedo con este libro?Es uno de los pocos libros, en los que me he encontrado perdido pensando en lo que va a pasar después.
EL FINAL ME DIO ESCALOFRÍO QUE PEEEEEEEEDO Estoy como anonadado, me parece super chingón que un libro "vieito" me pueda volar la mente tanto como lo ha hecho este.
Resumen ligero porque la verdad cualquier cosa que les diga podría parecer un spoiler.
Aunque pasan tantas cosas en el libro que la verdad ni importara si les cuento el final.
No he leído nada más de él, pero por este libro se ganó mi corazón y un lugar en mis escritores de ciencia ficción.
starts out a pretty run-of-the-mill Michael Crichton-type thriller, then segues into a cronenbergian fly-like body-horror thing and then ends as a stephen king The Stand-type situation, with a bunch of characters wandering around in a post-apocalyptic wasteland (only the characters are really flat and none of them were there at the start and you don't care about any of them and...
right in the middle, there's this one amazing chapter!
like a new plane of existence materializing within ours...
and that chapter is so great!
Turns out he wanted to see if the concept would bother me.
The story itself was original and unlike anything I'd read before.
The concept of a man-made apocalypse where the end of the human race comes in the form of an intelligent virus that ultimately rebuilds the likes of humanity is so far out of the box it's no wonder many light readers are thrown into abysmal attacks on sentence structure and grammar.
This is the first novel I've ever read that used infinitesimals as a plot point, let alone a key character.
Da je knjiga izašla prije kratke priče bila bi za čistu desetku. Ovako Virgil je dobio dušu i prošlost, njegova veza s majkom je odlično opisana i zapravo prikazuje ga kao sociopata, no s druge strane narator Nebulom nagrađane priče je izgubio dio svoje osobnosti jer je priča prebačena u treće lice pa je njegov lik stopljen u knjigu kao nužno zlo. Svakako pročitajte kratku priču jer nećete ništa izgubiti u samoj radnji i poanti, ali knjiga je dobra, jer ima dašak stare škole pripovijedanja. Čitao sam onu verziju SF Masterworksa, čak su i krupna slova :)
Vergil Ulam is a brilliant biotechnology researcher who takes matters into his own hands when his company threatens to shuit his work down. Vergil's noocytes are like nano-techonlogy living organisms that begin to evolve and multiply rapidly. Greg Bear knows his science and comes up with some big ideas and concepts while exploring what it means to be human.
This novel surprised me with how enjoyable it actually was.
The title and cover conspired to give me the distinct impression of "generic SF." A more up-to-date look at the worries of genetic engineering, "Blood Music" moves from an "Andromeda Strain" bio-thriller into speculation of physics and the nature of reality.
It manages to do so smoothly, and without invoking any mystical hand waving, which adds greatly to its effect.
A solid read, and one that would sit well with anyone who enjoys near future SF.
(With the exception of biologists, for who the suspension of disbelief will require quite a bit more effort.)
Genre: sci-fiRating: 3.5I listened to this book.Don't quite know what to think about this book. Parts had me spellbound, and parts, bored. I enjoy bio sci-fi. Darwin's Radio is one of my very favorite books. The bio in Blood Music is great...George Guidall does a good job narrating.
In Blood Music the hard science is Genetic Engineering and the character who ignites the plot is a humanly ineffectual scientist who illicitly uses biochip technology to transform RNA molecules into living computers, these join together into Gestalts which themselves combine into a single transcendental higher consciousness (Hive Minds) incorporating all of life upon the planet into one externally homogeneous biosphere.
Unfortunately, this book does not improve the short story upon which it is based; the main characters are either unsympathetic or two-dimensional, and Bear doesn't provide more than a glimpse of the world created by the Blood Musicians (so to speak). Also, the book's title just doesn't work with the "In My Pants" game.
I'd given this book 2.5 if I had had the option to do so. Closer to "mediocre" than to "multiple-award-winner".
My first of many (and still my favorite) Greg Bear book. This guy is good!
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5The last epidemilogical hard science fiction book I read was......also written by Greg Bear!
Darwin's Radio was much more of a political thriller where Blood Music developed into a solid science fiction work.
For most of this story, Blood Music failed to add anything substantive to the reading experience.
I was finally intrigued and cared about how it would end.
Better, though, to begin slow and end well than the other way around.This was originally published as a short story in Analog and went on to be an award winning novelette before it was an award winning book.
-En su momento, ideas de vanguardia.-Género.
En el libro Música en la sangre (publicación original: Blood Music, 1985) conocemos a Vergil Ulam, que trabaja en una compañía dedicada a la investigación biotecnológica que tiene ideas propias sobre el rumbo que deben tomar ciertos proyectos.
Su actitud profesional y personal le termina llevando al despido, pero logra llevarse con él su propio proyecto secreto: linfocitos manipulados genéticamente, a partir de los de su sangre, con la intención de crear inteligencia en ellos.
Primero fue un relato del mismo nombre, publicado en 1983.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
The latter also uses a multiple-person point of view, jumping quickly from one character to the next to tell their separate stories as time progresses.
The use of the multiple-person point-of-view did not come across as unfocused in any way, but instead does a great job of telling of different characters' experiences in the story's changing environment.On a scale of 1 to 10, the 'sci-fi hardness' of this novel would be around 7 (with 1 being 'very soft' and 10 being 'very hard').
That's the starting point for Blood Music, which spends the rest of the novel answering the question.
What raises this above the usual 'beware of the geek' cautionary tales is that there is some rationale given for his actions; the man who failed to stop him reflects that a certain indifference to consequences is a necessary attribute for a creator because it's impossible to predict where true innovation will lead.Vergil sinks into the plot device by about half way through, and the consequences he neglected take over the story.
That's another point where Blood Music transcends a lot of novels that start with a flawed genius and a test tube.
While borrowed some elements from the classics like Frankenstein, The Time Machine, and I dare to say Solaris (plus maybe other books that I haven’t read yet), Greg Bear created a world unlike any of them.
Whenever you think that you find the solution, and you know how you feel about a character or the noocytes as a whole, a new event will happen and will shatter all your ideas.It’s been my first experience to read a story, which combined hard aspects of science-fiction with its soft prospects.
It doesn’t judge the characters.
It only describes them and shows you the world it has been grounded on.
This book suffers from what I'll call 'the slide rule effect'.
Some of the older readers here will know exactly what I'm talking about: those old SF books with grand-scale sensawunda in which the astrogator works out the course of the superluminal starship using a slide rule - some anachronism that takes that vital 'suspension of disbelief' a step further away.
All the way-out (or not particularly way-out) science in this is fine, but that a large part of the story takes place in the Twin Towers does bugger it up a bit.
