https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26077477-murder-in-the-museum
The setting: The books starts in the Reading Room at the British Museum.
In public, but without any one noticing.This should have made for a great locked room type mystery.Instead, there is hardly any scene setting, and the little that is there does not describe anything about the museum or the reading room.
There are lot of tips of the hat to Sherlock Holmes in this book: A character caller Mr. Henry Baker like in ACD's Blue Carbuncle, the British Museum (which is also mentioned in Blue Carbuncle), and later on (I skip read to the end) the action takes us to Dartmoor where a prisoner escaped (Hound of the Baskervilles much?).
I enjoyed this book, it reminded me of a Agatha Christie style story. I loved the way they wrote back then. This is not a fast paced story, they sometimes talk around a subject until they got to the point. There was some wording back then that we would not use now, that felt a bit uncomfortable reading. It shows how far we have come in trying to respect people around us.I liked sitting down to a good old fashioned murder mystery.
This is the fifth book in the British Library Crime Classics series that I have read, and it is my favorite so far.
The introduction provides an explanation as to why the references were left as they were originally written which was extremely helpful to know as I was reading.The story begins as Henry Fairhurst is conducting research in the reading room of the British Museum (the UK’s national library formed part of the British Museum in 1938).
I really liked both Henry Fairhurst and Inspector Shelley and their interactions.This story has all of the elements of a classic British mystery, and I thoroughly enjoyed the story line.

But it’s still entertaining: nothing too solid, fairly stereotyped cast of characters for a Golden Age crime novel, quick to read… I wasn’t expecting anything revolutionary (and indeed, don’t remember Martin Edwards mentioning this author at all in The Golden Age of Murder, which talked about some of the more interesting members of the Golden Age crime fiction movement and particularly the Detection Club), but this was the sort of undemanding, mild fun I imagined.
Despite involving murder, it’s pretty darn cosy.
I had fun.
Not recommended if you don’t like Golden Age tropes, though!Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
While I liked the setting, style, and hero, the swearing got to be too much.
Now, the author, John Rowland, isn’t of the same caliber as Farjeon, Bude and Sprigg — and Scotland Yard Inspector Henry Shelley can’t hold a candle to Bude’s Inspector William Meredith (featured in The Lake District Murder, The Sussex Downs Murder, and Death on the Riviera); however, Murder in the Museum introduces the most charming police sidekick ever, the milquetoast (if insightful) Henry Fairhurst.
Even with its faults, Murder in the Museum provides readers with a satisfying read, as long as you set your expectations accordingly.In the spirit of full disclosure, I received this book free from NetGalley, Poisoned Pen Press, and British Library Publishing in return for an honest review.
Professor Julius Arnell dies of eating a poisoned sugared almond in the hushed atmosphere of the British Museum Reading Room.
Henry Fairhurst - who is an inveterate people watcher and who spends a lot of time in the reading room.
Violet asks Henry Fairhurst for help and Fairhurst is soon helping the police in their investigations.I enjoyed this entertaining and well plotted mystery.
Some of the attitudes may seem a little dated by twenty first century readers but these were the prevailing attitudes of the day and in fact Shelley himself displays some very modern attitudes.
In 1938’s Murder in the Museum by John Rowland, Henry Fairhurst has been doing research in the British Museum Reading Room when he gets annoyed that a man nearby seems to have fallen asleep.
Inspector Shelley, called to the scene, is certain that the man has been poisoned with cyanide.
Soon Inspector Shelley learns that another expert in the same field died in the British Museum six months earlier, and a third expert has gone missing.
It doesn’t take long before they locate the missing man’s body, also at the British Museum, but stabbed only half an hour earlier.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
Fast-paced, simple detective from the Golden Age of Detective fiction with a few nice twists and turns. Solution to the murder was slightly unsatisfactorily. Very happy that it was about academic university professors of the English language (view spoiler)[even though they were all dead/killed off (hide spoiler)]. If there is one thing I've learned from reading the British Library Crime Classics, it is that an important part of the book will always - sooner or later - revolve around petrol. It is inevitable. I think everyone was just really excited about cars in those days. Fiddlesticks!
You have to read all the books in this beautifully presented series as products of their time, and provided you step into that era, and better still if you specifically love all its trappings, as I do, this is a jolly caper that put me in mind of a light-hearted and lightweight John Buchan. Good fun for fans of the golden age of crime, and refreshing to be reminded of the time in which detection depended entirely on the wits of the detectives - and a large dose of luck and/or coincidence - rather than technology and computer power.
I've gone a bit crazy buying up these classic British crime series, but must admit am thoroughly enjoying them. This one was primarily set around mysterious deaths at the British Library. Probably the weakest storyline and ending of those I've read so far, but still worth a read.
A great first half but falls apart at the halfway point. Full review at classicmystery.wordpress.com
The blurb tells us that the author ' John Rowland, (1907-1984) was a publisher, journalist, civil servant and Unitarian minister whose detective novels have long been neglected'.
This book was first published in 1938 and this is its first republication since then now under the aegis of the British Library which is publishing a fair number of neglected crime 'classics'.
'Dead certain' replies the pathologist.
In another chapter, the police ascertain that a character is in danger and has likely caught a bus from Streatham to Pinner.
Was it worth the time of the British Library to reprint the book?
Henry was in the British Museum Reading Room at the time of Professor Julius Arnell's death, and fancies himself to be a bit of a sleuth.
True to the golden age of detective fiction, Mr. Rowland does provide the reader with the pieces needed to put the puzzle together, but looking back, this one did seem to be a bit unfair to the reader in that respect.I always enjoy reading a story written and set in the late 1930's, and Murder in the Museum is no exception.
From my review at Hidden Staircase.Many thanks to NetGalley and Poisoned Pen Press for providing me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
When a man suddenly collapses in the British Museum Reading Room, quiet little Mr. Henry Fairhurst is the first to realize that he's dead. Since Henry is fascinated by detective stories, he's reluctant to leave the case in the capable hands of Inspector Shelley of Scotland Yard. And, since Shelley is a fair-minded man, he admits that some of the information that Henry provides about the learned world is useful.
OK you lot know I'm a pushover for period whodunits - I really enjoyed this one. Maybe because its so dated, because it focuses on all the loves of my life - the domed Reading Room of the British Museum, the British Museum, Elizabethan drama, Professors of said drama (OK I'd love to be one)and period detectives who always get their man. I even love the cover. Just pass me another toasted crumpet......Toast
I am quite surprised that other reviewers seem to like this book a lot more than I did. I found it mundane and pedestrian. The plot was weak, easy to see through and there was a distinct lack of detection.Sometimes excellent writing makes up a bit for these shortcomings but not so in this case. Considering the usual quality of The British Library Crime Classics this was very disappointing.
Henry Fairhurst was doing research in the British Museum Reading Room when his attention was caught by a man sitting nearby, a man with flaming red hair, enormous horn-rimmed spectacles, well-cut clothing spoiled by the spotting of remnants of several meals, a dirty collar, and a tie wildly askew.
In the Reading Room?
But Henry fancies himself as something like an armchair detective, and feels he must help the authorities with their case, and proceeds to interfere as much as possible.I was immediately caught up in this tale, which was lively with interesting characters and excellent dialog.
He's one of those unpleasant people whom the Fascists are so fond of portraying as the typical Jew. Nothing of the sort really, of course, and to call him such is a libel on the Jewish race." I wondered if that appeared in the original 1938 edition.
I've just read the introduction by Martin Edwards who claims that the BL decided to retain the original text in this instance.
Edwards adds that Rowland was influenced by an innovator, Anthony Berkeley, and modeled this mystery on Berkeley's The Piccadilly Murder which I want to look up sometime.
It has always amused me how this genre can come up with so many varied ways to incorporate crime into a novel and also the interesting titles they have produced.
Although I enjoyed reading the book (as it flows well and is essentially an easy book to read at bedtime) - it is obvious to frequent readers of classical crime that this is a first or an early crime novel by the author as he makes mistakes in his pace which is somewhat slow and tension/excitement which needs to be enhanced.
Another book in a similar style to this novel is John Austwick's - Murder in the Borough Library.
There is a new interest in forgotten authors of the Golden Age of the British Mystery, and I applaud the efforts to reprint these books.
An elderly academic is poisoned in the British library.
One of the bystanders becomes an amateur sleuth and uses his knowledge of the academic world of Elizabethan studies to point Scotland Yard to another mysterious death.
What about her nephew, who seems to be perpetually in debt?As a mystery, this story is not very well constructed.
None of the characters is memorable, and although I had guessed the identity of the culprit, I felt cheated because he was not a real character in the story.
Another British Golden Age crime novel.
The story is interesting - I was attracted by the settings (love museums and love the British Museum, wish I could live there)...
a crime in the museum, or in the library (better yet to live), a fine Scotland Yard's detective, some help of a amateur detective (the character didn't attract me so much), a background love story, a villain that seemed to me more of a cliché (but that's what made it interesting to me, I laughed a lot with him and his lines), all this packed in a nice writing.
This is a good classic British mystery from the 1930s. When several men meet mysterious deaths while studying in the Reading Room of the British Museum, an amateur detective is determined to solve the case. Scotland Yard Inspector Shelley is willing to accept his help. Possible suspects include the daughter of one of the victims who greatly benefited by the estate. Another suspect is her boyfriend, since her father had disapproved of their relationship. The final suspect is the nephew of one of the victims, who owes money to a ruthless moneylender.
This is #6 of Rowland's series but there are only a couple from this series currently available. It's another classic from the British Library introduced by Martin Edwards. Features a Scotland Yard Inspector Shelley, Henry Fairhurst an eager amateur, and multiple murders, inheritance questions, money and family issues complicating the investigation(s). The story moved along but toward the end it did not mesh together as well as it might. It wrapped up so quickly I was left feeling like I didn't know as much of the why as I wanted to.
While it is a mystery story, generally speaking, it doesn't match up very well with the modern idea of one. (Though, given its 1938 publication date, I'm not sure it matched up to the idea of one even then.) The puzzle of the story is compelling enough, but it's basically solved by coincidences and people randomly knowing or mentioning information to the main characters, not by anything one could call detection. Ah well.
"Murder in the Museum" is a re-issue of a 1930s British mystery by the British Library. The premise, of a body being found in the Reading room of the British museum was intriguing. The book is a fun mystery involving a mild-mannered man who fancies himself a detective and gets to work with Scotland Yard. There are several suspects that the Scotland Yard inspector has to sift through. It's interesting how much crime-solving has changed but then in some ways, it has not changed at all.
Hmm this isn't (in my view) the best of the British Library Crime Classics/Golden Age, granted it was short and therefore a quick read but it was jumping between characters too much and nothing seems to happen for ages and then WHAM we know what happened, quick jump in the train and get the criminal! I suspect this will be the only Rowland I will read.
What started off as an interesting and perhaps promising quirky mystery soon ends as a straightforward police procedural, with the hapless amateur tagging along. A quick and enjoyable read, though I did find the ending a little rushed and simplistic.
Pretty standard Golden Age fare, with some fun characterizations, but it felt like Rowland could never decide whether he was writing a procedural or a cozy, so he split the difference, with lackluster results. I found the ending and the plot pretty far-fetched, straining even my credulity. It's fine if you want to get the flavor of the writing of this period, but there are better examples.
