https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/240617.Tau_Zero
Anderson has in Tau Zero, more than any other book I have ever read or heard about, created a sense of unimaginable isolation and otherworldliness.I am sure there is a list on Goodreads about books that must be read by a true science fiction fan, and Tau Zero by Poul Anderson should be on such a list.
Anderson was a physics major in college and this background provides a meaningful foundation for what is a great science fiction book.
But like so many of Anderson’s novels, his ideas, the premise of his story, overshadows the technical deficiencies of the book.
To his credit, Anderson approaches a very science heavy book with a humanistic flair, and ultimately this is more about group dynamics than about a scientific expedition.
This CLASSY SF CLASSIC concernimg a cadre of colonists setting sail to colonize a compatible star using an interstellar “Bussard Ramjet” is a superior sample of Hard science fiction. For those of you unsciencey/non nerdy types who are unfamilar with what a "Bussard Ramjet" is, I have put together the following DETAILED explanation which should explain everything: ....make sense?.....great. My overall rating is really based on balancing what I thought were some mind-wrecking and very well describ
My overall rating is really based on balancing what I thought were some mind-wrecking and very well described science fiction concepts with some pretty weak (bordering on dull) characters that prevented me from ever being truly drawn into the narrative tension of the plot.
In fact, it is intended that the first 2.5 years of the journey will be spent speeding up and the last 2.5 years will be spent slowing down.I don’t want to give away any spoilers so I will just say that things get very interesting and Poul Anderson takes the reader on an epic journey across time and space.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.SFional Lorentz Transformations: "Tau Zero" by Poul Anderson“Consider: a single light-year is an inconceivable abyss.
Nevertheless, such spaces could be conquered.”In “Tau Zero” by Poul Anderson.Yeah I'm aware of the twin paradox and how Special Relativity alone doesn't account for the returning twin being younger; at the time I remember wondering specifically whether one of the main criticism of Tau zero (i.e. that the crew of the ship should observe the universe as being slower relative to them while they're accelerating, not sped up as it is in the book) was on the nose.
I also learned a lot about time dilation and relativity that I never knew before, which will undoubtedly make me the life of the next party I go to.The characters are fairly interesting people, led by a protagonist who is a "pragmatism personified" super stoic constable, but at least he is very articulate, not one of those cliche taciturn hero type.
Even before the starship went out of control the crew never had any hope of returning home to the people they know due to the time dilation effect.
It was very fun to see Bussard Ramjets going far beyond their theoretical limitations, too, but I prefer Niven's treatments a LOT better.
Tau Zero DID have story, too, an exploration of what it means to be cast adrift into deep time, losing their anchor to Earth and the possibility of ever meeting up with anything remotely like themselves ever again.
I'm reading this book as moderator of a discussion on Sci Fi Aficionadoes this month.
No one has chimed in yet on the discussion.
The reason I'm bringing that up is because Tau Zero was the winner of our "Time Travel" theme, which has me a little bit...befuddled.
I mean, yes, they travel through time, but in the same direction as the rest of us.
I guess that's time travel, but by that logic, every book that is in any way linear is about time travel.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.

desire for monogamy from some passengers), and even in the slightly lax attitude towards use of (view spoiler)[alcohol, still, even when just announced pregnancy (first one on ship), though that might've been something just missed at the knowing-it moment (hide spoiler)].It's funny to read Sweden being the current world-power, which shows the author's background, which draws some drunken protest from one American traveler.
But the end is kind of clever solution to the problem: after (view spoiler)[the scary realisation that the world is imploding into a tightness and exploding again into a new Big Bang unvierse is followed by the opportunity not only to finally be able to use the now-fixed deceleration system to bring ship back to a manageable speed (and time-passing level).
Poul Anderson doesn't understand Special Relativity very well (an interstellar ramscoop spaceship can't carry on accelerating indefinitely, for all sorts of reasons). His understanding of General Relativity is even worse. Even if the Universe is cyclical, whatever would it mean to be outside the monobloc during the Big Crunch? You'd be outside the Universe.Well... an SF writer's normal solution to problems like these is to add some sex and violence, and it works here too. Sort of.
I imagine I would gave solid five star without second thought if I read Tau Zero when I had just started reading science fiction.The ending was perfect for me: surprising although could be predictable.
Like good mystery novels, the ending of this book was not cheating the readers.I admit, if I seek a perfect read, this book is still not perfect.
The characters are mostly flat and the plot is more or less predictable.
But how could you filled such a thin novel with many round characters?
The characters were squeezed into thin flat ones, reacting to the plot.
Rating: 2 stars because equations do not belong in fictionGood story spoiled by *shudder*flinch* see above can't bear to type it again. My then-brother in law thought that I'd like the book based on my voracious reading of SF. He wasn't wrong, exactly, he just misgauged my aversion to all things mathematical. Arithmetic I'm fine with, after that it's always been a really hard slog for me.Still, it was kind of him to make the effort and subsequent recommendations were spot-on, so he was listening. I wonder how he is doing...must be 70 by now....
* Old sci-fi was written in an era with few sexual liberties, so part of the allure of other worlds was fantasizing about other sexual freedoms (gotta say, I think there's a lot of weight to this one).* They are more likely to not give a damn about human emotions and drama, and they just kind of fill that bit in hurriedly at the end, once they've got their awesome concepts fully fleshed out.And don't get me wrong, sex, love, jealousy, attraction, all these are fun times.
Kuģis ir visu zinātnes sasniegumu iemiesojums ar piecdesmit cilvēku komandu, tas nav pirmais, kas dosies uz citām zvaigznēm, un diez vai arī pēdējais.
Taču piecdesmit cilvēkiem nodzīvot kopā desmit gadus nav nekāda joka lieta.Šķiet viss ir ok, kosmosa kuģis ar Bussarda dzinēju, ilgs ceļojums, jaunas planētas, kas gan varētu noiet greizi.
Kauns jau teikt par zinātniskās fantastikas klasiku, bet te nevar īsti saprast, ko autors ir vēlējies pateikt.
Through the wetness he smelled live girlflesh."Lai ar autors cenšas, cik nu prot, atainot bagātīgo savstarpējo attiecību tīklu uz kuģa ( lasi, kurš ar kuru kad guļ), viņam neviens tēls nav izdevies dzīvāks par kartona gabaliņu ar vārdu.
I will look back on Poul Anderson's "hard" sci-fi novel Tau Zero as one of the reasons I fell in love with sci-fi all over again.The book follows a group of colonizers sent from Earth to start anew on a more-or-less Earth-like planet orbiting a star a few light-years down the road.
When the catastrophe hits, Anderson uses the opportunity to explore two major ideas.The first is the science and philosophy behind and implications of Einsteinian relativity and near-light speed space travel.
This leads to the second idea Anderson explores: the interpersonal and psychological effects of such significant time-dilation.The colonizers on board begin their mission hopeful and excited, albeit expecting a degree of loneliness.
It’s hard to imagine what it must be like.
They take that saying as far as it can possibly go.Tau Zero has it’s faults, but they’re not many.
Otherwise it’d give readers some kind of crisis!In short, I loved this book.
I loved it enough that I’ll be buying my own copy and re-reading this book countless times.
It’s bigger than your mind can grasp, so you hold on to the bare mechanics of it, and wait to see what emerges.If you’re a sci-fi fan at all, you need to add Tau Zero to your collection.
The Swedes, we are told, have come to rule the planet, surely a sign of human organization and accomplishment, and yet some of the crewmembers of the Leonora Christina are obviously running from something, as if to escape a life on Earth over which they have no control, a sign of human frailty and fear.
This is the story of fifty human beings who take on the gods in a way that would make the Tower of Babel architects jealous, and the results are a thrilling and satisfying hard science fiction adventure that may be one of the more interesting ones you've read.
I was far more tolerant of Tau Zero before I learned (while looking up publication dates) that Harry Martinson’s Aniara had been a primary inspiration for Poul Anderson in writing this book.
Tau Zero is the story of trying to solve the Rubik’s Cube, never satisfactorily exploring how such a scenario impacts people, instead spending its pages on fake science as to how the Rubik’s Cube works.
(view spoiler)[ Anderson’s decision to give Tau Zero a happy ending also undercuts any exploration of how people deal with their coming demise.
Nope, I just can’t do it. 25% is more than enough for me. The writing was awkward. The characters were awful and it was dry as dirt. I’m assuming it gets better with all the glowing reviews but I’ll never know. Movin’ On...

Decades later and the hard physics that literally propel the story is still impressive (even though the ending is now no longer accepted), but the rest of the book has aged very badly.The problem lies with the characterisation, or rather lack of it.
It is a problem that many writers of hard science fiction often struggled with at the time this book was written in 1970, but it is such a shame that this story was so badly bogged down by what should be a fundamental part of any book.
Sometimes when a fairly competent author makes a blunder, gives inaccurate scientific demonstrations and incorporates in his fiction a technology which was rendered impractical even at the time of its proposal, you get novels like these.Here is a brief summary of the plot: A Spaceship employed with Bussard ramjet engine, which is used to continuously accelerate a ship to near-luminal velocities, sets off for a colonization mission to a near star.
Shutting off the acceleration means shutting off the engine and that turns off the force field, so the ship could be blasted to smithereens by the hydrogen atoms moving at the speed of light relative to the ship.
(No wonder the poor book is out of print.) The premise is so cool, though: a small colonist spaceship breaks its brakes and accelerates towards the speed of light and the end/beginning of time!
The characters are thin and often embarrassing to read about, awkward reminders of how the sixties expected men and women to act.
Someone needs to reboot this book, because the basic idea is awesome, and the potential for real character growth and conflict is unlimited.
That would be a great book.Well, at least I knocked off one more book from my SciFi to-read list.
A constantly accelerating ship alomost reaches lightspeed then loses the ability to decelerate.
As billion years pass by in the outside universe, time runs slow for the crew.
They leave the galaxy, they even leave the local clusters.
Trying to decelerate and find a new home.
But their time almost stops.
They try to find a way to repair the ship but the universe is now rapidly dying around them...
What do they do when they reach the end of space time?
How does it effect the crew's psychology?
A relativistic adventure through space and time and even the universal cycles.
Wow, talk about the very defintion of big idea science fiction. This is it and I loved it. It's a relatively short novel but still tells a really good story. A group of colonists launch an experimental ship for a nearby star. The ship malfunctions and they find they are moving faster and faster unable to slow down. From here, the hard science from the beginning of the story gives way to a real mind-bender of an odyssey that has to be seen to be believed.
Si obviamos que los personajes de la novela son un cúmulo de tópicos regionales y que el papel que le dan a la mujer es muy cuestionable, la novela no está nada mal. Me gusta mucho la ciencia que hay detrás de la historia y me ha parecido muy interesante el planteamiento político de la Tierra aunque apenas lo ha desarrollado.
Especially those in the 'SF and Fantasy Masterworks' series.So how did this 50 year old sf novel compare to it's modern brethren?
And Poul Anderson did it better.Tau Zero follows a crew of a spaceship on one journey and the troubles they get into.+ Short and precise book.
(The whole crew basically.) But characterisation is very well done and usually it's easy to follow who is who.- You need good sf background to follow scientific terms in the book.
I had to stop multiple times and Google what are Bussard ramjet, Scoopfield webs, ...Even after 50 years, Tau Zero is a must read for hardcore science fiction fans.
But the laws of probability are given a pretty hard shakeup.And the whole premise of why their ship is forced to voyage onward forever after an accident makes it impossible to stop at their target star is just not believable.In a group read with Sci Fi Aficionados, one participant complained that the characters are poorly developed.
Our "heroes" travel to the end of the universe, and in all that time, only one character gets developed at all (Reymont) and he is notoriously close about his character.I just kept hoping for it to end.
One of the main protagonists is Charles Reymont, who works as a constable on the ship, a man, who doesn’t allow others to get close to him, trying to be unemotional and working for the good of the ship.The novel develops quite slowly, a strange mix of soap opera (shipmates join or separate, cheat or stay faithful, drama, despairing or coping as situation worsens) and popular physics (relativity, astrophysics, cosmogony, etc).
About 1/3 of the book, when opera part almost nagged me to stop reading, the Accident happened.
...According to the blurb on the cover, James Blish considers this book the ultimate hard science fiction novel.
Anderson had a degree in physics and in other novels it is quite clear that he thought about the properties of fictional planets he created.
Anderson takes hard science fiction as far as it will go, in that sense it is the ultimate novel in this particular sub-genre.
That being said, it does not escape the shortcomings generally associated with the sub-genre.
I'd say it is a must read for fans of hard science fiction only.Full, somewhat spoilerish Random Comments review
The starship 'Leonara Christine', crewed by fifty of Earth's finest, sets of at near the speed of light for a star about thirty light years away in the hope of colonisation.
Less than half-way there, an accident disables its deceleration system forcing it to continue to accelerate in order to survive.
This is the story of the crew as they accelerate their way out of the galaxy and into the distant future.This was a real hard SF book, to the point of having equations (well, one equation).
The story was tightly told and the characters all sympathetic.
And the conclusion took my breath away somewhat.
