https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/707569.100_Poems_from_the_Japanese
On this roadNo one will follow meIn the Autumn evening...I received this book a couple of weeks ago, having read a review from one of my goodreads friends.
And the poems are simply sublime, beautiful....poetic indeed.
No long dragging poems, just like four lines of beautiful poetry.
"It is common to stress the many ways in which Japanese poetry differs from English or Western European, or, for that matter, all other verse.
It is possible to claim that Japanese poetry is purer, more essentially poetic....." This is a book to keep near you...
and every once in a while leaf through it and read a few poems, and discover new things...
It was Rexroth who persuaded Ferlinghetti to move to San Francisco (where he soon opened City Lights bookstore), and it was Rexroth who introduced Allen Ginsberg—new in town—to Gary Snyder (who, in turn, introduced Snyder to Kerouac.) It is not surprising, then, that Rexroth was central to the first great public event of the West Coast Beat era: he was master of ceremonies at the “Six Gallery” poetry reading in 1955, when Allen Ginsberg gave his first public reading of “Howl.” (Later, he was a defense witness at Ginsberg’s obscenity trial.)And it was thus that Kenneth Rexroth came to be known as “Father of the Beats.” (Although this didn’t exactly please Rexroth.
One hundred poems from the Japanese, Kenneth Rexroth (English Translation)The poems are drawn chiefly from the traditional Manyoshu, Kokinshu and Hyakunin Isshu collections, but there are also examplaes of haiku and other later forms.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و نهم ماه ژوئن سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: قطره های معلق باران، شعرهای عاشقانه ژاپنی؛ گردآوری و ترجمه به انگلیسی: کنت رکسروت؛ مترجم: عباس مخبر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر مشکی، 1391، در 143 ص، شابک: 9789648765458؛ موضوع: شعرهای عاشقانه ژاپنی؛ قرن 20 مهمه کوچه ها به خانه ی تو منتهی اند، پشت همین پس کوچه ها سرگردانم؛ همگی بن بست اند. ا. شربیانی
Utagawa Kuniyoshi (1798-1861)Kenneth Rexroth (1905-1982), American poet, literary critic and essayist, was also an interesting translator of classical Chinese and Japanese poetry.
There now exist complete English translations of all three of the mentioned collections, but I very much like Rexroth's version of the poems he chooses.
Judging from the number of poems translated by Rexroth of each poet (usually only one or two), one of his favorites (and one of mine) is Kakinomoto no Hitomaro (c.
Of course, one must be open to such invitations, open to the idea that most of the experience of the poem is left up to the reader to realize, in order to enjoy many of the poems in this collection.
What beautiful poetry. I thought to myself, which one stays with me the most, and it was this one:The white chrysanthemum Is disguised by the first frost,If I wanted to pick oneI could find it only by chance. And then a poem with autumn in it always touches me:The hanging raindropsHave not dried from the needlesOf the fir forestBefore the eevning mistOf Autumn rises. Autumn has comeTo the lonely cottage,Buried in the dense hop vinesWhich no one visits.That last one is a rather sad poem, but I liked it.
If the thought of Thanksgiving table talk scares you, just reread a Japanese poem like this:Autumn has comeTo the lonely cottage,Buried in dense hop vines,Which no one visits.
-- The Monk EikeiOr this:A strange old manStops me,Looking out of my deep mirror.
-- HitomaroOr this:The colored leavesHave hidden the pathsOn the autumn mountain.How can I find my girl,Wandering on ways I do not know?
-- HitomaroOr this:If only the worldWould always remain this way,Some fishermenDrawing a little rowboatUp the river bank.
-- The Monk Shun-ESee how easy they go down?
Like little meditations, they are.
Shapshots in time, they feel like.
Like fireflies.
God bless cranky well read farts like Rexroth and major personal library upheavals that spit out old forgotten favorites like One Hundred Poems From The Japanese!This is a collection of tanka, which are kind of like long haiku, but which predated haiku by centuries.
By the last line the breeze itself is blowing through the poem evoking a cozily alert melancholy.6.I will come to youThrough the ford at Saho,The plovers piping about meAs my horse wadesThe clear water.Otomo No YakamochiI like it because it is an epic moment (with movement) of heroic beauty.I do not know how accurate Rexroth’s translations are but they more than fulfill one requirement of great translation - they all are excellent stand-alone poems in English.
Rexroth notes that the poem is the pivot point of the novel so I should probably hide this small fragment in a (view spoiler)[One morning like a bird she was goneIn the white scarves of death.Now when the childWhom she left in her memoryCries and begs for her,All I can do is pick him upAnd hug him clumsily.I have nothing to give him.In our bedroom our pillowStill lie side by side,As we lay once.
من همیشه از شعرهای ژاپنی لذت می برم. این بار مجموعه ای منتخب از اشعار ژاپنی کلاسیک، قرون وسطی و مدرن جمع آوری شده. خوندن این شعرهای احساسی و تصویری به شدت دوست داشتنی بود به خصوص وقتایی که با خودت حساب می کنی که این شعرها توی چه سال و چه قرنی سروده شده و هنوز هم انقدر تازه و زیبان.
Second reading. Here's a favorite by Fujiwara No Sadayori, 11th century:You say, "I will come."And you do not come. Now you say, "I will not come." So shall expect you.Have I learned to understand you?
نمره ی واقعی: سه و نیممجموعه ی احساسی جالبی است. باید تصور کنی موقعیت را تا شعر درت رسوخ کند و لذت ببری و گرنه از آنجا که ترجمه است حیث صوری آن چیز خاصی نیستمترجم در مقدمه دو خطر ترجمه ی اشعار ژاپنی را ذکر می کند: یکی سانتیمانتالیسم - احساساتی شدن زیادی و سطحی - و دیگری دام زبان شاملویی - یعنی استفاده از لحن حماسی و گاه پرخاش جویانه در ترجمه ی اشعار ساده و تغزلی ژاپنی. من قضاوتی نمی کنم اما جالب بود این نکته کلا
Rexroth's selection is very good: even if, like me, you grow easily bored by love poetry, you'll soon find something more to your taste.
(Lady Kasa)And then there are the mini biographies at the end of the text, which are informative and sometimes helpful for understanding the poems; the lovely production of the book itself; and the very odd idea of including representations of Japanese pronunciation, which I suspect doesn't really help anyone, but is still charming.
Lady's Kasa's poem supposedly runs: Tsurugi tachiMi ni tori sou to Ime ni mitsuNani no satoshi zomoKimi ni awamu tameNow for anyone who doesn't know Japanese, and possibly even for people who do, that is *truly* the essence of poetry, unalloyed by extra-poetical considerations like, you know.
لطافت توی شعر ها بیداد می کرد...واقعا اشعار ژاپنی عجیب و لطیفن با تصویر سازی های عالی ...ولی سخته بگم همه ی 200 تا شعر عالی بودن...ولی 50 تاییش فوق العاده بودن.....عشق ما بی پایانو شب هامان اندک اندچه بی رحمانه است صدای فاختهدر صبح دم..به شور گذشته مه باز می نگرمخود را کوری می بینمکه از تاریکی هراس ندارد..نخستین سپیده می زندبا سوسوی نوری سپیدتو باید برویبا هم لباس می پوشیم صبح دمو از اندوه می لرزیم...
When I was a kid, for many months I carried this volume in my hip pocket. It was replaced by Basho's Narrow Road to the Deep North, which I toted around physically for a couple of years, until it become part of me.
One of the great classics of poetry books.
I always enjoy reading this book.
Japanese poetry is short.
No notes are required to explain something from Japanese culture.
For centuries they have provided Japan with administrators, regents, Shoguns, poets, generals, painters, philosophers, and abbots.") As I watch the moon Shining on pain's myriad paths, I know I am not Alone involved in Autumn.
This is one of the "most famous poems in Japanese literature.") In the empty mountains The leaves of the bamboo grass Rustle in the wind.
"He is generally considered the leading Japanese poet.") Will he always love me?
Reading this book was sort of a revelation for me; it made me realize I'm a tanka person, not a haiku person.Roughly speaking:Haiku = a 300-year-old verse form; short ("one breath long"); focused on nature and the seasons; the entire poem is supposed to be a perception that takes place in the present instant, so the overt use of metaphors and other figurative language is discouraged; erotic/romantic themes are generally discouraged.
Translator Kenneth Rexroth would have you believe that the advent of the haiku coincided with the corruption of Japanese poetry by "secular and middle-class" sensibilities.Tanka = a 1200-year-old verse form, courtly/aristocratic in origin; approximately twice as long as haiku (31 units vs.
3.5 stars. It's a collection from many different poets, some were beautiful even in their simplicity. And some were merely "I walked down the stairs. Birds frolicked betwixt branches." Stuff like that. But overall I'd say I liked the collection.
When I went outIn the Spring meadowsTo gather violets,I enjoyed myselfSo much that I stayed all nigh
I borrowed this from the library during National Poetry Month (April) when I realized I hadn't familiarized myself tankas in a long while.
A tanka is one of the short poetry forms (31 syllables, broken in to five 5-7-5-5-5 syllable lines) that the Japanese poets made famous.
There's also so haiku, and longer poems as well.
All the poems have the original Japanese and English translation side by side.These poems are meant to be simple little caps to the previous evening, written the morning after.
I loved the simplicity in the topics, and the relatability of the poetry even after surviving hundreds of years.
As with most collections, this was a mix of poetry I found very beautiful and poetry that didn't appeal to me. Overall enjoyed the style.
Not the best collection, but there are some very real gems. Others may forget you, but not I.I am haunted by your beautiful ghost.-THE EMPRESS YAMATOHIMEWill I cease to be,Or will I rememberBeyond the world,Our last meeting together?-LADY IZUMI SHIKIBUYou do not come, and I waitOn Matsuo beach,In the calm of evening.And like the blazingWater, I too am burning.-FUJIWARA NO SADAIEAutumn has comeTo the lonely cottage,Buried in the dense hop vinesWhich no one visits.As I watch the moon Shining on pain's myriad paths, I know I am not Alone involved in Autumn. --Oe No Chisato
A beautiful collection that brought this reader much-needed solace and inspiration on a melancholy day.
"We were togetherOnly a little whileAnd we believed our loveWould last a thousand years."YakamochiI can't be the first to think Tennyson must have borrowed from this poem for the famous 'better to have loved and lost' portion of In Memoriam A.H.H. I think people all need this belief in the endurance of love -- we involuntarily cling to it, whether in eighth-century Japan, Victorian England, or here and now.
It's trimmed of superfluous language, and elegant in its depiction of loss, and how loss of love can hold as much beauty as love itself.
It's a pretty quick read if you've got some time to spare.
I think I'll revisit this poetry collection in the future and take my time with it.
I have an interest in Japanese poetry (and I've experimented with English haiku and tanka myself) so I was exposed to a number of these poems.
I would love to read different translations of these poems because I felt sometimes like some things did not cross through the border between the two languages--as though they were missing something a little extra.
I would recommend this to people who enjoy the brevity and the clear, simplistic imagery that characterize Japanese poetry.
I've been reading more poetry lately.
I ran across this in an awesome bookshop/cafe in upper peninsula Michigan on a lake with fantastic local ice cream.
Better translations than I've come across before.
Better choice of themes and flow between poems than most.
Much, much better translating than most.
Did I mention that already?
Yup. His translation errs on the side of subtlety and lets your brain do the work, which lets it pass through whatever it is up there that generates feelings.
Anywho: strongly recommended.
Pretty short.
Lovely illustrations.
Many, though not all are love/relationship themes.
Both male and female identified authors.
Two Poems from One Hundred Poems from the Japanese:You say, "I will come."And you do not come.Now you say, "I will not come."So I shall expect you.Have I learned to understand you?Komu to yu moKonu toki aru woKoji to yu woKomu to wa matajiKoji to yu mono wo-Lady Otomo No SakanoeI should not have waited.It would have been betterTo have slept and dreamed,Than to have watched night pass,And this slow moon sink.Yasura wa deNe na mashi mono woSayo fuketeKatabuku made noTsuki wo mishi kana-Lady Akazome Emon
This is the first time I've read Japanese poetry and I must say that it's certainly enchanting. Despite it's simplicity, the use of words which convey emotions through nature is quite touching and somewhat memorable. It's short and sweet but it has a honest explanation to it's subject of meaning. It's a bittersweet range of poetry that you can easily skim through and it's just pleasant and haunting to the soul in general. I enjoyed this entirely and I look forward to reading the sequel. 5/5.
Rexroth's translations of Chinese and Japanese poems are sublime. For all I know about those languages, he may have been just making sh*t up (read his autobiographical novel and you'll understand). But what lovely poems in English they are, whether or not one can vouch for their fidelity to the original.
I am not an expert at poetry, and I can not say I have read a lot of it. I decided to buy this book because of an anime series in which some of these poems where sung and I liked the translations. While reading this book, I couldn't help but picture them in my mind, in my own way, and fell in love with these short poems.
Not only a beautiful book, with translations and Japanese characters, but the loveliest poetry. Not one unnecessary word.Here's an example:I may live on untilI long for this timeIn which I am so unhappy,And remember it fondly.
It has some interesting facts about haiku writing and its history that I wasn't aware of. It also goes in to the different styles of Japanese poetry beyond haiku (hokku) including dodoitsu and the tanka, among a couple others.
As i watch the moon Shining on pains myriad pathsi know i am not Alone involved in AutumnIt really doesnt get much better than this.
This book really helped me with my project of translating Ogura Hyankunin isshu to Arabic.
My neighbor had some "older" books he gave to me free--this was one of them.
In 1964, this short collection was in its sixteenth printing, so it must have been popular.
But for a handful of selections, the poems in this slim collection are typically five lines or less, translated in English, accompanied by the original.
Many of the poems deal with nature, love, or loss and there is a very wistful feel to the whole.
In the preface, the translator describes most of the poems as being in the tanka form (thirty-one syllables arranged 5-7-5-7-7) which dominated for a good while until the development of the haiku (17 syllables).
These poems are short, but don't race through them; take your time! Savor the imagery packed into each meager syllable. My favorite:"I have always knownThat at last I wouldTake this road, but yesterdayI did not know that it would be today."There's also a little biography of each poet in the books endnotes. Neat!
Something about this book... I loved it, plain and simple.I have always knownThat at last I would Take this road, but yesterdayI did not know that it would be today.
A nice collection of really deep and emotional poems. More than a few of them pulled at my heartstrings. Definitely looking to add this to my collection at some point.
The main body of this book is really woefully short; 500 Poems from the Japanese might have been a better aim.
I might be quite interested, though, in an *illustrated* 100 Poems from the Japanese, which seems like a good way to coax that lingering out of a reader who's used to, say, the crashing waves of a FitzGerald or a Swinburne in his poetry reading.
What Rexroth gives us instead, though, and quite strangely to my mind, is a romaji *transcription* of the original Japanese (for all poems except the haiku, for some reason).
Although I hide itMy love shows in my faceSo plainly that heasks me,"Are you thinking ofsomething?"This collection consists of tanka (short poems) but every poem is like an arrow that will hit the center of your heart.
I was pretty gloomy these days and I felt like everything is not going according to my plans and then I came across this poem written by Fujiwara no Kiyosuke from this collection:I may live on untilI long for this timeIn which I am soUnhappyAnd remember itFondly
This is a worth reading book
I just finished this. While the poems are superb, some of Kenneth Rexroth’s notes are a little hard to follow, as it seems he assumed that all readers were well-versed in Japanese history, culture, and literature, as well as the fundamentals and nuances of the Japanese and Chinese languages. (He was, by all accounts, a brilliant man, who read the “Encyclopaedia Britannica” from cover-to-cover every year.)
I love owning this book. It's interesting to see how different translators pull the beauty and rhythm of the original Japanese through into English (I'd previously read some of the poems by a different translator). Though the tanka are by nature brief, you can feel the emotion and imagine what prompted the authors to write them.
Really reads like an American take on Japanese poems. The context of the writers is stripped and a mix of aesthetic, courtly, and formal poems are jumbled together for consumption. I can see this as a good introduction for and english reader, but in some ways it recontextualized Japanese poetry.
Incredibly poignant, concise and heart-felt poems from Japan many on the topic of love. Derived from a wide variety of authors across an equally broad time span in Japanese history.This is definitely a desert island book.
The poems were beautiful. It's a nice book to read while sitting in front of a window or outside with a nice hot cup of tea. I really like how they had the original text below the translation.
A beautiful selection of Japanese poetry with the English version, Japanese version, and Japanese characters for each poem. Some of the most simple yet poignant verse I've ever read.
