https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239745.See_How_They_Run
I am a big James Patterson fan. I had to check the cover of this book several times to confirm I was in fact reading James Patterson. I can say it's his worst book I ever read, but that seems odd, because I've never felt there were any other bad books...This was bad. Disjointed. I felt like there were huge gaps, missing parts. I have given it no stars.
I had a really hard time getting into this book. I just read it to finish it because I was already halfway through it. It was not like any of Patterson's other books that I had read and I could definitely tell it was from his early years. The first disappointing book by Patterson that I've read.
This book was dreadfully boring.
If I wasn't a completist, I would have stopped reading this one very soon after starting.
There were a couple twists, but the first one didn't even dawn on me until about 10 pages later because it was so dull.
The "exciting" part at the end wasn't even that exciting.
No biggie though.
With as many books as Patterson has put out over the years, they can't all be great.
And as always, I was able to read through it quick because the chapters are so short, which I like.
Even the book's original title, THE JERICHO COMMANDMENT (which was insipidly renamed to fit in with Patterson's typical nursery rhyme schema) is as Ludlum-esque as you can get.There are a couple of reasons why SEE HOW THEY RUN is ultimately a big disappointment.
(And nobody writes flirty dialog as poorly as James Patterson.
The plot drags so badly during the book's middle section that no amount of fireworks at the end can redeem it.The second problem is Patterson's terrible dialog, which makes his characters sound phony and dumb.
Plot Summary: Outside New York City, the palatial home of Dr. David Strauss's parents is attacked by gunmen during a glittering party.
Dr. David Strauss is soon obsessed with finding the explosive secret behind the murders of his family members.
His dangerous odyssey takes him across Europe, and finally to the Olympics, where one of the most shattering surprises in suspense fiction will take place.aka Jericho Commandment This book wasn't James best effort.
The plot line seem a wee bit contrived at times.
Even though the beginning was pretty good, the rest of the book was medicore at best.
Having not been born by the time of any of the events in this book, I think that they were less horrifying or enveloping to me than they perhaps could have been to someone who can recall what actually happened, but they were nevertheless powerful.
The best part of the book, I think, in terms of the most impact and attention-grabbing insanity, is chapter 24.
I won't tell you what it is, as the shock of it is half the point, but I stopped reading at that point to feel the suckerpunch of it; that was Patterson's pinnacle in this book.
It was a bit confusing in the beginning for me. I actually thought it was the Germans who did all the killing in the beginning not the Jewish peeps. I found most of the story hard to follow. David, the main character was sort of a bore. Alix should have been developed more or David should have done more with her to make him more exciting.
Maybe back in 1979 when this was written, using resurrected Nazi beliefs as the motivation for the bad guys worked.
This is typical Patterson, short chapters, fast reading, keep the reader slightly off balance, but the change on this one is that the author is getting better at his craft.
If this was the first Patterson book I read, I might have bought another.
It would depend on what else was available that I'd rather read.
Even so, it was an okay book and if you like Patterson, read it.
If you don't know if you like Patterson, don't start with this one as your first of his books.
Patterson's trademark short chapters were still present way back when he wrote this novel. In fact it's that easy to digest format that keeps 'See How They Run' from becoming dull. There's not really much content in this retribution tale and even the grand finale never lives up to the potential. The characters are rather two dimensional and inconsistent too. What's left is a thankfully short tale about an interesting terrorist plot around the 1980 Olympic Village. There's not really much to recommend since Patterson has gone on to produce considerably better work.
A Jewish revenge story that takes us back to the Holocaust and the Nazis. A thriller in the style of James Patterson but certainly not one of his better ones. Very few surprises and a lot of violence. Unless you are a die hard glutton for Nazi war crime novels, nothing much of interest here. And unlike Forsyth or Ludlum or Le Carre, who could create the atmosphere, it’s lacking in this one..
It was a very interesting look at what the many survivors of the Nazi death camps went through even many years after they were liberated. Also a bit shocking to learn how many of the Nazi’s were allowed to not only get away w/ the horrors they committed but were allowed to live right among us & lead rich, successful lives. Well worth the read!
This was THE hardest book to get into, but it was James Patterson, so I kept trying! I started to make sense, and it started to get better, and then it just kind of fell apart! An all around unenjoyable book to read!
DifferentUsually I give Patterson 5 stars. Only 4 this time because even though the book was very good, it was so far off base from his usual stuff. I enjoyed reading the book but much less Paterson's series books. Guess he wanted to try something new
Meh....it was fine. It was a nice read. I liked the main character. I love James Patterson but this isn't one of my favorites.
Would actually be under 3 for a rating...
A lot of historical facts here thrown in with the usual mysteries.
not the best
Not Patterson's best effort.
Good, read at the cabin in Cable. First James Patterson that I’ve ever read.
It was OK. I'm a huge James Patterson fan, but this one was unlike any other I've read. Like I said, it was just OK.
One of my favorite authors. Although I liked the book, and the plot was excellent, I found it hard to follow the characters....too many perhaps.
GreatAs per the norm, a page turner from start to finish. Thank you as usual James Patterson, may you have many more!
Awful. Really took effort to finish this book.
Interesting comparing Patterson's writing style then to now.
This book does merge history with fiction and includes original pictures pertinent to the story.
Interesting take for Patterson.
Another more current book doing the same is his take on Pharaoh TUT.
Both books required research, which Patterson pushes in his on-line Master Class.
The 1979 edition is may be slightly larger in size (??), and print is readable, but much smaller and more type per page than his current books.
I do recommend the book, especially if you are a history buff that's OK with fiction filling in the gaps.Some passages I particularly liked:⎯ ...
In fact, there is a lot of other things they should be worrying about.As it comes time for his brother's category, David and his wife head upstairs to visit with his aging grandmother Elena.
She had spent most of her life in the service of the the global Jewish nation by helping in the hunt for Nazis while also helping her family build a communications and hotel empire.As David's brother and sister-in-law get up on the stage to accept their award, a gunman rushes them, and they are shot died in front of both a live audience and millions of people around the globe.
David's wife is shot dead, and his grandmother dies of a heart attack.And so starts the bumpy ride the reader joins Patterson on.
Being a WW2 and historic events enthusiast i was only too pleased to see a swastica on my cover (I ordered this book from Abebooks.com and recieved an original softcover edition, which i believe was an UK edition of this book the title is the original title for this novel " The Jericho Commandment) Why books are revised and retitled later on in the game i do not know?
Although out of sequence my next read is Patterson's 2nd book "Season Of The Machete" I'm hoping i'm right on his pattern that he is gets better as he goes along as i know the books i have read much further down his bibliography line are all excellent.
After David Strauss's parents are killed by the Jews, he teams with Nazi Hunters to try to counter the epidemic.
One of the members states "Someone in the Strauss family has seriously frightened the Nazis"(Patterson, 93).
When the olympics begin, David finally confronts the Nazi leader, the Fuhrer.
After that, Alix explains to David what she had known but had never told him.
What Alix didn't know was that members of David's family were killed.
How his grandmother, Elena, had helped him and participated in convincing Jews to even kill Germans just as revenge for the holocaust.
David Strauss finds him, and kills him.
I normally appreciate how Patterson writes short chapters, but because of the overuse of Jewish, German and Russian titles and names that were not interpreted; the quick description of characters and the scenes; and the inappropriate choices of verbs and adjectives(author desperately trying to sound "literature"); it was difficult for me to follow the story.
I don't even recall what the story was actually about.
I didn't care about the main characters in the least.
In fact, I couldn't clearly make out what happened to them at the end, or how the major situation was resolved.
I ended up throwing this book in the trash.
Read 21 chapters and just couldn't get into it. Not going to continue.
I cannot deny that James Patterson has intriguing stories and concepts.
However, I am not keen at all on the way he tells his stories or his characters.
This may simply be my desire for more complex motivations and desires for the characters I read.
The audiences he writes for may not care for such things.
It feels as though even he doesn't know what's going on before the end.
Although everything ends up being explained, I feel a bit unsatisfied.
No doubt I will read a James Patterson novel again and have the same complaints, but I cannot help but return.
