https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8695.The_Restaurant_at_the_End_of_the_Universe
It turns out it takes little more than a moment's questioning to burst our preconceptions at the seams, yet rarely does this stop us from treating the most ludicrous things as if they were perfectly reasonable.It is no surprise that famed atheist Richard Dawkins found a friend and ally in Adams.
By showing a universe that makes no sense and having his characters constantly question it, Adams is subtly hinting that this is the natural human state, and the fact that we laugh and sympathize shows that it must be true.It's all a joke, it's all ridiculous.
On board are Arthur Dent, Ford Prefect, Trillian, and the ex -President of the Galaxy, the thief, Zaphod Beeblebrox ( nobody cares about Marvin, the annoying robot).
The only bright side is, that the Englishman gets the best tea, he's ever had...With the crew, having only a few moments to live, the great- grandfather of Zaphod's, is someways, conjured up by Beeblebrox...
Reasonable prices too, a great view of the entertainment, if you can get a good table, and join his friends for a few libations....The only heaven, that our not quite perfect hero knows.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نهم ماه سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: رستوران آخر جهان، کتاب دوم مجموعه ی پنج جلدی راهنمای کهکشان؛ نویسنده: داگلای آدامز؛ مترجم: آرش سرکوهی؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1395، در 217 ص؛ شابک: 9786002292896؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی و خنده دار خیال انگیز از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مکتاب رستوران آخر جهان، جلد دوم مجموعه ی پنج جلدی: راهنمای کهکشان برای اتواستاپزنها، است.
رستوران آخر جهان نیز، همانند جلد نخست، رمانی ست علمی ـ تخیلی، و طنز‌آمیز.
(hide spoiler)]- we find refuge from another explosive misunderstanding in space on a Golgafrinchan Ark Ship, carrying a third of the population of their home planet away from an iminent if unexplained cataclysm and heading towards a tiny blue dot located in the unfashionable end of a spiral arm of our galaxy.At the end of the second Hitchhiker installment, I might feel like I am starting to make sense of the Universe, including an explanation of how intelligent life blossomed on Earth, but I expect Douglas Adams has a few surprises up his sleeve for the next novel.
I was talking to a friend of mine the other day, when he asked me for a book recommendation.
“Nothing too long,” he said.
“Or too factual.”My brain starting racing.
Tolstoy?
Much too long.
Bill Bryson?
Much too factual.“The news?” I suggested.“No, no,” he said.
“A book.”My mind kept racing through titles.“Ah, I’ve got it!” I said finally.
“Try The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy series.
They are wholly remarkable books.”This brief conversation encapsulates why I enjoy these books so much.
They are the sorts of book you can recommend to nearly anyone, the sorts of books that turn illiterates into book enthusiasts.
Poor Marvin!I’m glad our heroes are exploring space and time but poor Marvin!!!!
I knew I'd seen the old tv version, but I wasn't sure I'd actually read the book, so I read it.
This is more about Zaphod Beeblebrox and Ford Perfect, as well as the kitchen sink's worth of whatever zany ideas Douglas Adams wanted to throw into the works.
I say "zany ideas" as if they are a haphazard, careless collection of ramblings, but Adams does actually stay on topic for much of the time.
Oh well!While not as sharp as the first book, this is a worthy successor and I plan to continue reading the remaining books in the series, which I'm pretty sure I haven't read yet.
"It must be nice," mused Ford Prefect thoughtfully, "to know what you're for. I don't have the slightest idea what I'm for. Most sentient beings don't. But you," he continued, turning to Arthur and Trillian. "You know. Part of finding the answer to the Ultimate Question. I'm sure that's comforting at times. ""You mean the 42 business?" asked Arthur. "What?" asked Zaphod's left head incredulously, while his right head rolled its eyes. "You mean you fell for that?!"The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
"The Universe — some information to help you live in it.1 - Area: Infinite.The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy offers this definition of the word "Infinite".Infinite: Bigger than the biggest thing ever and then some. Much bigger than that in fact, really amazingly immense, a totally stunning size, "wow, that's big", time. Infinity is just so big that by comparison, bigness itself looks really titchy. Gigantic multiplied by colossal multiplied by staggeringly huge is the sort of concept we're t
"The Universe — some information to help you live in it.1 - Area: Infinite.The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy offers this definition of the word "Infinite".Infinite: Bigger than the biggest thing ever and then some.
Any finite number divided by infinity is as near to nothing as makes no odds, so the average population of all the planets in the Universe can be said to be zero.
This is the second book in The trilogy of five books in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series and while I love and adore the original book, this one however feels a little less fresh.
Prior to my reading of this book, I thought that the restaurant is located at the end or the edge of the universe.
Sorry for the spoiler but it's found in the first half of the book and there are other more interesting scenes in the second part and you have to read the book and experience for yourself how is it to be dining and watching the end of yourself.
However, I agree with you that this book is good: talking insect as receptionist, elevator refusing to come up, animal talking to you prior to being butchered so you can buy and eat its meat, restaurant at the end of the universe, etc.
In this second book of the trilogy of five (which is now 6 I'm told), our crew of Beeblebrox, Arthur, Trillian, Ford Prefect, and of course the loveable Melvin the depressed robot, has to find the man behind the power, the ruler of the entire universe.
Of course, it's peppered with more great aliens and planets and if you thought the Vogons were great (or terrible, depending how you look at it), well, let's just say the committee meetings don't end there.Doug Adams was absolutely brilliant and I thought this was even more quotable than the last.
“The History of every major Galactic Civilization tends to pass through three distinct and recognizable phases, those of Survival, Inquiry and Sophistication, otherwise known as the How, Why, and Where phases. For instance, the first phase is characterized by the question 'How can we eat?' the second by the question 'Why do we eat?' and the third by the question 'Where shall we have lunch?” In which installment we learn that tea is a most dangerous beverage....
کتاب دوم نیمهی اولش برای من راحتخونتر، اما انسجام داستانیش کمتر بود. خیلی جاها حس خب که چی بهم دست میداد!تنها قسمتی که برام خیلی جالب بود، اون بخشی بود که رفتن پیش اون آقاهه که اسم گربهش گاد بود.در کل کاش نویسنده کنار خلاقیت زیادش یه مقدار داستانپردازی و شخصیتوپردازی رو قویتر انجام میداد. نمرهی واقعیم بهش ۲.۵ هست که با ارفاق ۳ میدم.----------بخشهای یادگاری از کتاب:آدم میون این عظمت نامتناهی فقط یه نقطه بینهایت کوچیکه که از بحث بیاهمیته حتی دیده هم نمیشه....- زندگی چیز غریبیه.+ زندگی اونیه که تو
نمره‌‌ی واقعیم بهش ۲.۵ هست که با ارفاق ۳ می‌دم.----------بخش‌های یادگاری از کتاب:آدم میون این عظمت نامتناهی فقط یه نقطه بی‌نهایت کوچیکه که از بحث بی‌اهمیته حتی دیده هم نمی‌شه....- زندگی چیز غریبیه.+ زندگی اونیه که تو ازش می‌سازی....چرا مردم نمی‌تونن یاد بگیرن که در صلح و صفا کنار هم زندگی کنن؟...کسانی که بیشتر از همه سودای حکومت کردن بر مردم رو در سر دارن، درست به دلیل همین آرزو، کمتر از همه آدمای دیگه برای این کار مناسب‌اند....به نظر می‌رسه که شما خیس هستید اما نظر شما رو در این باره نمی‌دونم....من فقط برای جهان خودم تصمیم می‌گیرم.
Back in junior high school, when I was being bussed 30 miles each way to the Magnet School for Gifted Math and Science Students (don't get excited; I washed out of the program in shame and disgrace after two years), the Hitchhiker's Guide series were all my nerdy friends' favorite books.
It was like trying to get excited about watching other people ride a roller coaster.I can't remember the last time I had such a hard time finishing such a short book, but I'm actually glad I did because the last 50 pages or so were the best part.
Los continuos viajes en el tiempo y el espacio y las paradojas que derivan de ellos conducen a los protagonistas por una serie de situaciones inverosímiles y desternillantes.
La Energía de Improbabilidad Infinita volverá a hacer de las suyas."Uno de los problemas fundamentales en los viajes a través del tiempo no consiste en que uno se convierta por accidente en su propio padre o en su madre.
En el hecho de convertirse en su propio padre o en su propia madres no existen problemas que una familia bien ajustada y de mentalidad abierta no pueda solucionar."Reseña completa y mi versión de la portada en http://sidumbledorefueralibrero.com/2...
Oh, how I do love Douglas Adams.
I find something really profound in the way Douglas Adams presents life, even through an otherwise nonsensical and just purely humorous book.
Each encounter, each adventure, each beloved character, each twist, each turn; these are all humorous, superbly written, and wonderful, but what I believe Adams does better than his other counter-parts is lace it all with such an intelligent irony to the point that, when you take the time to look, you see more than a Sci-Fi best-seller, you see a truly substantial commentary on the world around us.

2.5 to 3.0 stars. Decent follow up to The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams. While enjoyable, I did not find myself laughing as often as I did during the first one. With books like this, your mood is often an important factor in determining your level of enjoyment so it could be that I just wasn't as receptive to the story as I might otherwise have been. Good but not great.
Hitchhiker's, volume 2.The beginning of human life on earth and the end of the universe, aided by infinite improbability.
"Life.
Can't invent fire without knowing what people want from fire; can't invent wheel till decide on a colour.
"We were about to do nothing at all for a while, but it can wait".Brief summary and favourite quotes from the other four of the five books, as follows:Hitchhiker's Guide (vol 1): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Life, the Universe and Everything (vol 3):http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...So Long, and Thanks for all the Fish (vol 4): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Mostly Harmless (vol 5): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...And Another Thing...(vol 6), by Eoin Colfer : https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Not much to say about this. It's like the first one but not as good. It's a sequel. What do you expect?
Parking Cars - what else does one do in a car park13 September 2016 Well, this is annoying. Having just arrived back from Europe, and having travelled half way around a world you could say that I now have the holiday hangover – Jet Lag. Basically I have had about 10 hours sleep in total over the past four days, namely because I go to sleep and suddenly an hour later I am wide awake, laying in bed, wondering whether I should get up and do something, or simply lie there and attempt to get some mor
Further, it seems that the story has been padded out a bit and as such it feels a little forced, especially since the original really didn't need a plot – they land up at the Restaurant that exists at the end of time, namely because they are looking for some place to have a meal and people go there for a humongous light show.
In a way I am inclined to agree – there is actually a whole class of people that simply exist to make things more complicated, and more expensive.
از کتاب اولش (راهنمای کهکشان برای اتواستاپزنها) خیلی بهتر بود
از کتاب اولش (راهنمای کهکشان برای اتواستاپ‌زن‌ها) خیلی بهتر بود

Bir mizah, bilim kurgu ve uzay romanı. Yazar bir yandan okuru uzayın derinliklerindeki maceralara götürürken, bir yandan da bol bol güldürüyor. Kitapla ilgili incelemem: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
This series is frigging hilarious. Unfortunately, that's the only thing this book has going on. The story was a bit all over the place. There was also a lack of my favourite character, Marvin. Not sure if I'll continue with this series as yet. The first book THGTTG is a must read though.
Well, the unavoidable happened, and the only reason I didn't undergo an OMG-I-can't-believe-this-is-over crisis was that I started reading The Restaurant at the End of the Universe as soon I as was done with the first book.There was still a crisis I didn't know if I could avoid, and that was the What-the-hell-this-is-not-as-good-as-it-was-supposed-to-be crisis.
I have no idea of what happened in the first half and don't know how to feel about that, then I remembered that I have no idea of what happened in the entire first book either so I got over it.
Now I just want to start reading Life, the Universe and Everything as soon as it arrives.
Yine uçuk kaçık ve zekice olsa da ilkinin yanında biraz dağınık mı ne? Seriyi gerçekten sevsem de akılda kalıcı olmaması eksi bir durum. Evet cidden hayranlık uyandıracak kadar zekice mizahla dolu bir hayal gücü olsa da vurucu veya çarpıcı olmasını da istiyorum sanırım biraz. Evrenin Sonundaki Restoran fikrine şapka çıkartıyorum. Şu 'son' olan kısım gerçekten son, sınır değil. Kitapta en sevdiğim kısım burasıydı. Neyse, Don't panic. Seriye devam.
يه تئورى ديگه مى گه كه اين اتّفاق قبلاً افتاده.» جلد دوم كتاب «راهنماى كهكشان براى اتواستاپ زن ها» يعنى «رستوران آخر جهان»، با اين جملات شروع مى شه.زاپود كه سفينه ى قلب طلا رو دزديده و اين كار رو در اصل براى ديدن كسى كه جهانُ اداره مى كنه انجام داده، از رئيس جمهورى خلع مى شه و خب چون در واقع رئيس جمهور صرفاً وجود داره تا حواس مردمُ از اداره كننده ى اصلى جهان پرت كنه، مى افتن دنبال زاپود تا دستگير و شكنجه ش كنن.
به هر کسی که میتونه مردم رو راضی کنه بهش رای بدن و رییسش کنن، اصلا و ابدا نباید اجازه داد که رییس بشه.
دو سوم ابتدایی کتاب نسبت به کتاب اول به نظر من جالبتر بود.
هم خط داستانی مشخصتری داشت و هم طنزش ملموستر بود.
با این حال توی یک سوم پایانی باز ضعیف شد.در مجموع قصد خوندن باقی مجموعه رو ندارم.از ترجمه هم راضی نبودم.
ترجمه این کتاب کار راحتی نیست و این موضوع قابل کتمان نیست، اما به نظرم آقای آرش سرکوهی هم نتونسته اونجور که باید و شاید از پس ترجمه بر بیاد.
حالا از سختی متن کتاب برای ترجمه هم بگذری
حالا از سختی متن کتاب برای ترجمه هم بگذریم، انتخاب زبان محاوره برای ترجمه قسمت‌های غیر محاوره‌ای و باز توی همین قسمت‌ها هم گاهی جا به جا شدن بین زبان محاوره و کتابی، به شدت اعصاب خرد کن بود.یک نکته هم که توی بخش یکی مونده به آخر بهش برخوردم و برام عجیب بود، مهم‌ترین سوال جهان بود که پاسخش می‌شد چهل و دو.
از درک من خارج بود، اگه کسی میتونه منو روشن کنه، استقبال می‌کنم.پ.ن: ولی یک فصل این کتاب بود که واقعا خنده منو در آورد و اون موقع هم توی مترو بودم و نمی‌تونستم بخندم :))) کسانی که بیشتر از همه سودای حکومت کردن بر مردم رو در سر دارند، درست به دلیل همین آرزو کمتر از همه‌ی آدم‌های دیگه برای این کار مناسب‌اند
خیلی بامزه و جذاب بود. خیلی خیلی بهتر از جلد اولش :)
