https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357636.Civilization_and_Its_Discontents
Exploring what Freud sees as the important clash between the desire for individuality and the expectations of society, the book is considered one of Freud's most important and widely read works, and one of the most influential and studied books in the field of modern psychology.عنوانها: تمدن و ملالت‌های آن ؛ ملالت‌های تمدن؛ ناخوشایندی های فرهنگ (مترجم: امید مهرگان، نشر گام نو، 1382)؛ تمدن و ناخرسندیهای آن؛ نویسنده: زیگموند فروید؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم ماه آوریل سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: تمدن و ملالت‌های آن ؛ نویسنده: زیگموند فروید؛ مترجم: محمد مبشری؛ تهران، ماهی، 1383؛ در 124 ص؛ شابک: 9647948352؛ چاپ چهارم 1387؛ موضوع: روانکاوی و فرهنگ - سده 20 معنوان: ملالت‌های تمدن؛ نویسنده: زیگموند فروید؛ مترجم: محمود بهفروزی؛ تهران، جامی، 1395؛ در 160 ص؛ شابک: 9786001761515؛ موضوع: روانکاوی و فرهنگ - سده 20 مفروید با رویکردی روانکاوانه، تکوین، و تکامل فرهنگ و تمدن را مورد کنکاش قرار میدهد.
کشمکش میان سلیقه های فردی و اوضاع اجتماعی که همان خاستگاه ملالتهای تمدن ست را نیک مینمایاند.
It explains why standing behind that scruffy, ponytailed, mustachioed gentleman in the checkout lane (let’s call him “Gerard,” for good measure), can trigger paroxysms of homicidal fury.
Something deep and ancient roils inside as you do a quick comparison: Gerard, with his sensationally attractive girlfriend in tow, (let’s call her “Melanie”); and you, with just you.
You stand there fronting a twitching half-smile that conceals the throbbing urge to rip the man-bun off his head with your bare hands.
That handsomely tailored Oxford button down only goes so far to hide the truth: you're a bloodthirsty, sex-crazed, status-seeking ape.
Go on, if you dare, look inside yourself.
You'll see the truth.
This book deftly delineates the dilemma in our civic society, where the struggle between our ethics and animal instincts continue, and the ‘prices’ we have paid in making our society safe and secure.
It rejoins what Victor Hugo and Tolstoy and Steinbeck show in their works...But, most of all, I think it acutely depicts the fate of our judicial system, conceived by men who thought punishment would be the detriment to crime, but which ironically turned out to be the incitement to more heinous crimes.
فروید مواد تشکیلدهندهی تمدن را برمیشمارد. و اینها را در مقابل هدف انسان از زندگی یعنی سعادتمندی قرار میدهد ولی در این تقابل رابطهی مثبتی پیدا نمیکند. یعنی تمدن موافق سعادت هر فردی نیست. بلکه تمدن بیشتر نگاهش به جمع است. فروید میگوید اگر هر فردی به ابژهی عشق دست پیدا کند اصلا باقی دنیا برایش مهم نیست. اجتماع برایش ضرورتی ندارد. میتواند بدون هیچ جمعی با ابژهاش تا ابد زندگی کند. قشنگ نیست؟ برای من چرا ولی تمدن این را نمیخواهد اما ابژه عشق را هم لازم دارد. تا خیالش از تمدید نسل بشر مطمئن باشد! شبیه
فروید مواد تشکیل‌دهنده‌ی تمدن را برمی‌شمارد.
و این‌ها را در مقابل هدف انسان از زندگی یعنی سعادتمندی قرار می‌دهد ولی در این تقابل رابطه‌ی مثبتی پیدا نمی‌کند.
یعنی تمدن موافق سعادت هر فردی نیست.
بلکه تمدن بیش‌تر نگاهش به جمع است.
فروید می‌گوید اگر هر فردی به ابژه‌ی عشق دست پیدا کند اصلا باقی دنیا برایش مهم نیست.
اجتماع برایش ضرورتی ندارد.
می‌تواند بدون هیچ جمعی با ابژه‌اش تا ابد زندگی کند.
قشنگ نیست؟ برای من چرا ولی تمدن این را نمی‌‌خواهد ا‌ما ابژه عشق را هم لازم دارد.
تا خیالش از تمدید نسل بشر مطمئن باشد!
شبیه یک بازی است.
This is not just transference, and no, he doesn't remind me at all of my father; I believe Freud was a great genius, and far more importantly, that he was a fantastic writer and very interesting person.
I also believe that Freud is one of the most unfairly maligned and willfully misinterpreted figures of the past hundred-or-so years.If you haven't read him (HIM, not his theories), or if you have but your mind was so full of distracting, disparaging thoughts about how he was a sexist pig or whatever that you couldn't concentrate, I encourage you to go back and read him again.
It is a superficial masterpiece that stretches further than any of his other works; he is reaching for an explanation for human nature in terms of the id-ego-superego structure of the individual as he exists in civilization.
For Freud, human beings are characterized by Eros (Sex Drive) and Thanatos (Death Drive), which remain in opposition to one another.
As a result, human beings, and civilizations as a whole remain unsatisfied and suffer from neuroses.
He wonders as to whether or not human beings will be able to overcome this drive.
It seems to me that this question remains the most important for human beings in the 21st century.
But most psychologists nowadays, I suspect, would find it quixotic to look for a historical origin to an emotion.It seems hardly worth the time to criticize Freud’s ideas, but here is just a bit.
Freud was one of the first intellectuals (though by no means the first) to place the emotional life in the center of human nature.
Compared with this, I think Freud’s notion that religion is a satisfaction of an emotional need is a real insight.Not only that, but Freud made clear the extent to which self-knowledge is almost impossible.

أكثر استفادة لي من الكتاب ،أنه غير لي نظرتي السطحية ،لأطروحة فرويد الخاصة ،بعقدة قتل الأب الأصيلة ،ف
Studying psychology I never cared much for Sigmunds insights into the human psyche and dreams. They seemed interesting from a cultural, maybe even literary or intellectual perspective -but not from a scientific point of view. His sociological ideas and writings however impressed me deeply in my student years. I read this book cover to cover in two days. One of the points that stuck was that humans not only have an innate drive to survive, but also to self destruct.Fascinating book and very well written. I should reread..
He is quite impressive when he dons all his auxiliary organs, but they have not become part of him and still give him a good deal of trouble on occasion… Let us also remember that modern man does not feel happy with his god-like nature.”Death, Fire and Sex ObjectsWe are not happy because our tendency for violence and sex must be suppressed for civilization to work.
It is hard to tell here if that is his personal view, or he is guessing about attitudes in primitive society (like towards the fire), or if it reflects what he learned from his male patients.Neurosis, Civilization and Free LoveWe are constantly reminded that the cause of neurosis is suppression of the sexual drive.
این روش گرچه به علت داشتن مجموعه ای قابل توجه از جنبه های خاص نسبت به فن های دیگر امتیاز دارد اما در عین حال " هیچ گاه در برابر رنج، بی حفاظ تر از هنگامی که عشق می ورزیم و هیچ گاه ناکام تر از وقتی که ابژه ی عشق را از دست می دهیم نیستیم.٨-در حالتی کلی تر سعادت را فقط از طریق لذت بردن از زیبایی جستجو می کنیم.
لكن فرويد، حسبما يرى فروم، وفراس، وستيس، وغيرهم ممن نظروا للدين والتجربة الدينية نظرة تعلو النظرة المعتادة لروح عصر التنوير، يرون أنه لو أن فرويد تخلص من نظرته السوداوية ولو إلى حد قليل تجاه الإنسان، لبإنسان بوصفه منتجَا وكيانًا فعالا، لأفسح فرويد للديم مجالا.ليس دفاعل عن الدين وليست اعتذاريات، ولكن تقديرَا لما للدين من أهمية في نماء روح الفرد.يقول فراس: لا يمكن للمرء أن يعيش بلا عقيدة، وهي حقيقة.
أيا كانت هذي العقيدة حتى ولو فاسدة، يحتاج المرء للإيمان.الإيمان لا بوصفه وهما أو تعزية، لكن بوصفه دفعًا للأمام وإنتاج وتنمية لروح الفرد والبحث عن ما هو أسمى من الإنسان.يردد فروم نفس النبرة وإن بشكل أنضج.
از آخرین کتاب های فروید، و اولین کتابی که من ازش خونده م.
متن کاملا خودبسنده ست.
تازه و ساده شروع می شه، خوب ادامه پیدا می کنه و با مختصری تکرار مکررات به پایان می رسه.فروید واقعا نبوغ داره.
رد پای تفکرات نویسنده ی این متن رو توی هر نحلهی فکری امروزی می شه دید.
چه اون هایی که قبولش دارن، چه اون ها که نه.
چه اون ها که بهش ارجاع می دن، چه اون هایی که اسمی از فروید نمی آرن.سخت و صعب، ولی لذتبخشه.
در صورتی که کشتی گرفتن با تفکرات کسی همپایه فروید رو م
متن کاملا خودبسنده ست.
تازه و ساده شروع می شه، خوب ادامه پیدا می کنه و با مختصری تکرار مکررات به پایان می رسه.فروید واقعا نبوغ داره.
رد پای تفکرات نویسنده ی این متن رو توی هر نحله‌ی فکری امروزی می شه دید.
چه اون هایی که قبولش دارن، چه اون ها که نه.
چه اون ها که بهش ارجاع می دن، چه اون هایی که اسمی از فروید نمی آرن.سخت و صعب، ولی لذتبخشه.
در صورتی که کشتی گرفتن با تفکرات کسی همپایه فروید رو می پسندید، بسیار گزینه ی خوبی برای خوندنه.
Because, Freud says, man is basically an aggressive being whom civilization keeps in check through two “weapons”: Ananke and Eros, that is, “the compulsion to work, which was created by external necessity, and the power of love”.
The struggle between Eros and Thanatos (with the continual repression of the death instinct dictated by society) leads to a sense of guilt which, although the most important problem in the development of civilization bringing with it the loss of happiness, usually remains in subconscious, being experienced rather as a sort of malaise, of anxiety.

Good thing to keep in mind.It might be a handicap but mostly the Freud I've gotten is from literary theory (hello, papa Bloom!) and my ex-girlfriend (don't ask).
I think Bloom is brilliantly on to something when he affirms that Freud wasn't really a psychologist, consider that more of a literary conceit, what he really was was a philosopher, a wisdom writer.
در پایان این سوال مطرح می شود: آیافرهنگ به ناخوشایندی هایی که همراه می آورد ، می ارزد؟ریوییوی دومین بار خواندن:فروید همانطور که خود می گوید در نوشتن این کتاب راهنمای چندان ماهری نبوده و خوانندگان را از مناطق متروک و راه و بیراه های پر زحمت و خستگی آور گذرانده.اما جان کلام فروید چیست؟ چرا انسان در فرهنگ احساس ناخشنودی می کند؟ آیا این مسئله ذاتی فرهنگ است؟ اصلن فرهنگ چگونه بوجود آمده؟اینها یک سری سوالات هستند که فروید سعی می کند به آنها پاسخ دهد.ابتدا با رانه ی جنسی( لیبیدو، اروس) شروع می کند.
but David Mclintock’s Translator’s Introduction is excellent; I am a sucker for these and he talks about some truly interesting things, like how a German-English translator of Freud has the extra issue of dealing with the Anglicised clinical language that pre-exists his own efforts to translate...)Brave New World is often looked at as predictive book, and a book that has a way of always remaining relevant, or even an ever increasing degree of relevance ...
All of these things help avoid pain, but to remain pleasured, there is a combination of class-conditioning (which makes people happy with their lot) and un-repressed sex.
Certainly, for anyone studying the early 20th century, the ideas in here will seem eerily familiar; Freud isn't so much creating a new argument here as speaking aloud what was in everyone's heads at the time.So, the basis of this little thought-experiment was Freud's concept of the struggle between eros and thanatos: the drive for pleasure and the drive for death.
I'm sure most Freudians would say that this is a metaphorical event, which took place in the imaginations of ancient peoples and that we still carry the legacy of this concept, but Freud's rejection of Jung's "collective unconscious" forces him into a position like unto fundamentalist Christians, insisting that his myths must be based upon actual fact.
Read in 2000. Too long ago for me to review, but I will say that the impression I'm left with is that Freud may be more relevant today outside of his discipline than in it.
I was reading this book very carefully due to Frued's reputation in my society but I find this evil!
Freud uses that theme to explain his psychoanalysis in describing individuals and the societies in which they live as mirror images of each other.Yes, Freud does believe some weird things and he restates them in this book such as the early infant's whole world is the mother's breast and thus we end up fetishizing the breast when we grow up, our time in the womb means we always are looking to return to an abode of some kind, something about the anal fixation and how it never leaves us and unrepressed sex desires lead to our anxieties and other such things that sound weird to our modern ears.
Ce que l'homme obtient à travers la culture, c'est précisément de se prémunir contre les agressions de la nature et de ses congénères, à travers l'instauration du droit et de la morale.
Finalement, l'individu, en passant de la Nature à la Culture, a retourné sa puissance d'agression contre lui-même et troqué une menace de mort contre une autre...Il s'agit d'une réflexion essentiellement spéculative sur la condition névrotique de l'homme civilisé, portée au-delà du cadre strictement familial (lieu de prédilection de la psychanalyse) et pris au niveau du collectif social.
I was interested in reading this short work at this time because Freud herein addresses, inter alia, the creation of art as sublimation of libido in society.
He also expands upon his idea of the pleasure principle which draws up the program of life’s purpose.What interested me most was Freud’s discussion of culture.
“The word culture describes the sum of the achievements and institutions which differentiate our lives from those of our animal forebears and serve two purposes, namely, that of protecting humanity against nature and of regulating the relations of human beings among themselves.” But one cost of society or civilization is the necessity of denying the expression of drives toward sex and aggression that themselves would undermine society.
Sigmund Freud's psycho-analytical thoughts begin on page 10 and end on 112.
Freud concludes that if those were abolished from mankind, man would no longer be ill-minded or hostile towards his neighbour.
While I agree with many observations Freud makes in which is only related to psychology of mankind and civilization (disregard all politics), it seems that Freud, as a scientist of the mind, forgets emotions and irrational behavior of man.
Mankind doesn't like to be "OOC" (out of control) and to avoid this lack of control, we implement rules and regulations in attempts for humans living in a society/civilization do not break those laws/rules/regulations.
The first seven of its eight chapters read like an anthology of things Freud was thinking about this week, very loosely themed around the source of civilization and its consequences for the psyche.
You're left thinking irritably, "Well if I'd known _that_ was where you were going with this I'd have read that part differently." This does not, however, affect the work's brilliance, only its accessibility.The book's thesis on civilization, as I understand it, can be summed up thus:Man has a constructive, or libidinal, impulse (Eros) and a destructive, or aggressive, impulse (death).
However, the aggressive impulse threatens to destroy any civilization thus formed.
Estou fazendo um trabalho sobre influência patriarcal na psicologia clássica e ler Freud é sempre um prato cheio para tal assunto. Aqui ele discorre sobre os meandros do superego cultural de forte influência do superego individual instaurado pela figura do pai na infância, traçando um paralelo também com a figura paterna religiosa com seu deus onipotente. Enfim, estamos todos fadados à culpa em função desse superego engrandecido.
I do love me some Freud. His theories seem too speculative at times, but his insights on basic human psychology are enlightening. Although he spent most of the time trying to disabuse his readers of that ultimate "delusion," religion, I'm afraid it had the opposite effect on me. His expert construction of the ultimate human dilemma only strengthened my belief in and need for God, for which I thank him.
الكتاب غير مفيد وغير مفهوم لسبب لا أعلم ماهو، هل هو سوء الترجمة أم أن أسلوب فرويد التحليلي هو السبب
