https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121304.The_Drift_Fence
Leaving Missouri with no knowledge of cattle ranching,Jim Taft of Missouri is put in charge of building one hundred miles of fence on his uncle's western ranch to prevent cattle from drifting. The job puts him in conflict with the local community and he must find a balance.
Zane Grey’s writing career was in full stride when this novel was first published in 1929 as a serial in the pages of The American Magazine.
That year saw two other serials, in The Country Gentleman and Ladies Home Journal, plus short fiction in Collier’s and McCall’s.Not much has changed since he found his basic western formula in his first novel, Heritage of the Desert (1910).
A tenderfoot arrives in the Southwest, learns the ways of the West, wins the heart of a western girl, does battle with a nasty villain and his gang, and wins the approval of his superiors.
Good StoryA good western dressed up with considerable Zane Gray romance. A very good light read. Recommended for a couple evenings
This particular book I would call middle weight Zane Grey.
The hero, Jim Traft, I found a cookie cutter not really tender tenderfoot character, typical of a number of hard boiled types that often crop up in Grey's novels.
To his credit, Jim prefers duking it out with hist fists over the gun play that shocked Grey's editors back in the 1920s.
I also enjoyed reading about the cowboys' tasks in building the controversial drift fence and the mayhem it engenders.
Though "The Drift Fence" is one of Grey's Mogollon Rim novels, he doesn't constantly wax poetic about the scenery.
Young Jim Traft comes west to Arizona to make good and does right well, both as ramrod of his uncle's cowboys and in love with Molly Dunn. The landscape is every bit as much a character as Jim and while the prose style remains repetitive and verbose, still much more story than in some of Grey's novels.
The best of all the Zane Grey set yet. Mine was hardback with 314 pages.
In the Top Six of his Top Ten.
Well, he's a good storyteller. Maybe I'm too liberated.
