https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25571848-the-z-murders
How could he with a bullet in his heart, having been shot through the window while he slept?The “Z” of The Z Murders refers to a token that police Detective-Inspector James discovers at the scene of the crime: a crimson-enameled metal Z.
Or to a pretty but anguished young woman who Temperley saw fleeing the scene of the crime?
At any rate, Temperley’s determined to track down the mystery woman.
Three cheers for The British Library and Poisoned Pen Press!
Why is Farjeon not a household name like Dame Agatha Christie, Nicholas Blake, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Ngaio Marsh, Dorothy L.

It’s when you read some of the ropier inter-war crime stories that you appreciate why writers like Christie and Sayers are considered to be the masters of the art.
I suppose one might say in its defence that it’s not meant to be a conventional whodunit or even a detective story of any kind (there is little detecting and barely any real clueing), but rather a thriller.
Even so, it’s not to my mind a good example of that genre, or a particularly good story on any terms – at the very least it hasn’t aged well.
I wished they had a stronger role in the latter part of the story.However, while this wasn’t a “whodunit”, I would have still liked the mystery to be “solved’ at the end by the Inspector, or Temperley even, but instead much of the answer is revealed (towards the end of course) but through a conversation of the “villain” himself and his accomplice (and that too before they are tacked down), who we “meet” in a manner of speaking fairly early on.
Also, I wasn’t entirely convinced on Temperley’s reasons for not wanting to work with the police from the start or at least not doing what he did some way in (specifying this might be a spoiler) earlier on.
I enjoyed the first half of this book but towards the end it all got too silly and impossible. I suspect the author got fed up with it and just wanted to finish it off.
Dorothy Sayers remarked that he was "unsurpassed for creepy skill in mysterious adventures." Yet it's the Crime Classics series that can be credited with a resurgent interest in Farjeon, and word of mouth over Mystery in White fascinated me enough to try another re-release, The Z Murders.As Richard Temperley rode the night train into London, he wished his onerous traveling companion dead.
So not only is it well-written, The Z Murders is fairly tense and compelling, a Golden Age thriller I found hard to put down; in particular, there's a car chase following a race-to-a-train that I found hard to put down...
Utter drivel. Silly characters & non existent plot. The author didn't seem particularly keen to reveal the mystery even at the end. Most of the time, even if I hate a book, I'd say that it's just an opinion, read it for yourself & make your own mind up. This? Really, don't bother. A child could come up with a better murder mystery.
The introduction to this Golden Age classic places this as a serial murder, but actually the reader does not find the police trying to establish correspondence among the victims.
Of course, the book takes in a span of 36 hours, so there isn't the buildup of suspense and fear that most serial killings bring.
He follows her rather than confide in the police, who are in turn following him.
Even in the 1920's or 1930's setting, it's not really my kind of book, but it is enjoyable in an old fashioned way.
Published in the British Library Crime Classics series J.Jefferson Farjeon is a largely forgotten author of crime novels, this one first published in 1932.
Richard Temperley is caught up in a shooting at a hotel near Euston Station in London where he arrives early one morning by train from the North.
However the story goes from London to Bristol then Boston, Lincolnshire and onto Whitchurch in Shropshire with only Temperley and a mysterious young woman realising why.Far fetched and fully of such flowery prose that I might easily have thrown it down but I'm a sucker for punishment and did actually read to the end.
No wonder the author was forgotten.2 stars.
Not all forgotten books need to be remembered - this one would have been much better consigned to the dustbin of history.
I can't believe it's by the same person who wrote Mystery in White, that book was excellent while this one was absolute bilge.
The characters were dull, the plot was contrived and nonsensical, and nobody behaved with the slightest hint of intelligence from the police to the killer(s) to the main protagonists.
I wouldn't use it to line the cat litter tray.
I hate throwing books away, but I honestly don't want to inflict it on anybody else.
I'm going to be seething about this for the rest of the day now!
Abandoned on page 56 of 256. Very atmospheric and written well but more a chase than a murder mystery with clues. Didn't really care what happened next.
There’s something in the way he can describe a scene, and his mysteries quickly take over, clever and strange.
The only thing I’d say I don’t fall in love with is the romance: you can see it coming a mile off, and it’s the obvious two people, and you know it’s going to end with marriage.That aside, The Z Murders works really well at the suspense throughout.
The antagonist does have a reason and an end in mind… although that reason does still seem unhinged.Overall, Farjeon’s books are a pleasure, and I’m sorry I’ve only got Mystery in White left to read of the British Library reissues.
The Ben the Tramp books don’t seem quite my thing.
I've read four or five of these British Library Crime Classics now, and I'm starting to think I may have to build a collection! This one I really enjoyed. It's fast-paced, with plenty of mystery and menace. At times I forgot it was written over 80 years ago. No spoilers from me regarding the plot, but I liked the characters, especially Diggs. I wasn't quite certain who had done what in the final scene, but the outcome was satisfying anyway!
This is one of those quaint British thrillers from the Thirties that never makes much sense, in which a plucky young man aids a young woman in distress and becomes entangled in a bizarre random killing/jewel heist plot. There's lots of motoring around England and a pervading sense of danger, but I still dare anyone to explain it in any way that sounds logical.
Another excellent classic murder mystery. This would make a good film.
4.5 stars. This was such a fun ride!
The result was 'British Library Crime Classics', a UK imprint that specialises in the work of long-forgotten British authors of the pre-World War II era of mystery fiction.
The novels of such writers were generally light, escapist entertainments that relied almost exclusively on plot - many were straightforward whodunits - and which invariably eschewed character development, overt violence and anything approaching realism.
Temperley decides to investigate the murder, primarily because of the apparent involvement of a beautiful and mysterious young woman who suspiciously left the scene of the crime in a hurry.
I applaud 'British Library Crime Classics' for resuscitating the work of unjustly neglected writers such as Farjeon.
Detective inspector James knows the young woman is somehow connected and realizes Temperley may be able to help find the sinister killer.
Any lover of classic mystery will eagerly devour it.
It is a pleasure to see it re-released and made available to a new generation of mystery lovers.The Z Murders is available for preorder and will be released September 1, 2015.5/5I received a copy of The Z Murders from the publisher and netgalley.com in exchange for an honest review.--Crittermomhttp://muttcafe.com/2015/06/the-z-mur...Poisoned Pen Press releases Farjeon's classic thriller The Z Murders
I guess you’ll have to make your own mind up but please don’t assume that because some didn’t enjoy the book, everybody didn’t.I’ve just discovered I have a new favourite author on my list of favourite authors!
Firstly, I love detective fiction and whodunits from the Golden Age (between the wars), so this book was always likely to appeal, but I enjoyed it more than I would have hoped because of the writing of J.
His prose and writing style is clear, clever and humorous in places.
The book is full of well crafted phrases and clever uses of words.

It was full of humour and strange incidents as well as suspense and a particularly frightening murderer who would basically stop at nothing to achieve his aims.Richard Temperley shares a compartment with a man who snores on an overnight train and encounters the same man in a nearby hotel smoking room where he goes to finish the night.
Richard has also seen a mysterious lady about the time the man met his death but she has disappeared.
When he finds her bag down the side of a chair at the hotel, instead of telling the police he decides to try and find the lady because he doesn't believe she has anything to do with the murders.
Disappointing, bordering poor. "Z Murders" is dated and lacks authenticity: Set in the 1930s the British labour movement was in full swing and yet every working class character was one dimensional, monosyllabic, deferential and thick. The police were inexplicably forgiving of the main character who was so love struck that he hadn't considered he was hindering a murder investigation.None of it stacked up!Surely this world never existed.
The only good thing I can say about this book is that the author is capable of producing a forbidding atmosphere - as he also did in "Mystery in White." But that's about it. He adopted such a verbose style of writing in this convoluted tale of serial killings that it swamps the already unlikely plot. He then tops it out by annoying asides to the reader. No wonder this book had faded into obscurity before British Library Crime Classics revived it.
This is tricky one to score. I romped through it enjoying every page until I got to the last 10 or so. I’m wondering if some pages were lost as the end is rushed, unclear & rather disappointing. I’d love to know what happened to the police, if anyone has the answer.......
Good Golden Age mystery/suspense book with the classic romantic subplot. My biggest complaint is that the ending was a bit abrupt.
A padded short story, needlessly repetitious, about a dumb guy and a useless heroine who has nothing going for her other than she's beautiful.
4.5 stars. A new favourite British Library Crime Classic. Read for my #BLCCchallenge.
very melodramatic murder mystery with unconvincing plot and bizarre characters. another resurrected 'classic' that could probably have stayed buried.
I bought this when it was published in 2015 and have, on the third attempt, managed to finish it.There now remains only one of the British Library Classics which I have been unable to read to the end.
I enjoyed the other Joseph Jefferson Farjeon mysteries I have read: I did not enjoy this one.The reason boils down to the fact that it never makes up its mind what type of story it is or is not.It tries to combine elements of amateur detective, police investigation, thriller, car chase, serial killer,killer with a theme and a romance.
The British Library Crime Classics appear to be marketed as Cosy Crime with reissues from the'Golden Age'.
This book isn't.We are more in the realm of John Buchan than any of the classic Crime writers.
Of course there is a crime, a series of seemingly unconnected murders both in victim and location.
I particularly enjoyed the way Farjeon explains the motive and the behaviour of Miss Wynne.
There is no all-knowing detective explaining their reasoning; there is no gloating villain revealing all before dispatching the hero; instead we have a conversation between crooks on the way to complete their plan.Another good read from Farjeon.
