https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480019.Adventures_of_the_Wishing_Chair
Woohhoo.. I finally back on Enid Blyton again.. and I gotta say that I'm amazed by her imagination.. she had written sooo many fantasy stories and at times you got a different taste from one story to another and I think it's haaarrdd to do that, hahaha..I still have 2 more books of this series to read and I'm excited about that one..Ohh ohh.. I'm wondering where will Peter, Mollie & Chinky have the next adventure with their wishing chair?And how I wish I had one as well! Wakakakakak :p
A fast and easy read that consist of a collection of stories about some kids and a wishing chair that can take them places, oh the chair fly.
It's no Faraway Tree book, but the Adventures of the Wishing Chair is a delightful read and one which parents will enjoy just as much as children.
In it, two children (Mollie and Peter) discover a magical wishing chair in a mysterious antiques shop - it has the ability to grow wings and fly, and it does so to take them home from the shop.Of course, Blyton sprinkles in characteristically weird names, too - 'Chinky' the pixie, for example.
I have so many great memories about the Wishing Chair series and many of Enid Blyton's other books. I loved the fantasy world where pixies and gnomes and little magical people where around every corner. I see a lot of the Harry Potter series in the Wishing Chair and wouldn't be surprised if Rowling read a lot of Blyton when she was younger.
A childhood favourite ❤️
Do you want distinct characters, rich descriptive writing, emotional involvement and that mix of the fantastic and grounded that makes a story feel truly magical?
A bad writer like a popular politician feels no need for there to be any rules and can throw whatever random nonsense they like into the plot.
Its true that some good books can feel almost as random, Mary Poppins for example is at least as variable as this, however that randomness is offset by grounded moments that make the weird ones stand out through contrast.Despite the very short chapters i rarely made it through one fully engaged.
A reread from my childhood. Only this time o read a chapter a night with my youngest son <3 He loved it!
I've had the 'Wishing Chair Again' since I was a child, but this is the first time reading the first book. It is made up of short chapters of two children Peter and Mollie with thier Pixie friend Chinky going on grand adventures on a flying chair. Most chapters are a full story in themselves. Only a few carry over. If I can't have a TARDUS then a Wishing Chair would be the next best thing.
Mis historias preferidas de pequeña eran ésta, y la del Árbol Lejano. No me canso de leerlas, qué bonito haber encontrado los libros.
My young daughter loved it, even though it does feel dated and slighlty out of kilter with the modern world
My father read this to me as a little girl and now I have read it to my boys. My youngest (6 yrs old) really enjoyed them :)
I wish I had discovered Enid Blyton a few years ago when my oldest kids were younger.
Blyton is the perfect author to read aloud to kids ages 5-8ish.
Thankfully I still have a few kids in this age range but I read this one for myself to "preview" it at the ripe ol' age of 40 and still enjoyed it fine!
Blyton likes to tell imaginative, magical stories full of elves and pixies and wizards.
There is sometimes a moral lesson attached but not always.
The stories are pleasant, gentle and adorable.
I'll be reading more Blyton for sure -- WITH my kids!
I will always like the faraway tree more than the wishing chair.
Mum bought me this and I read it about 1973. I loved this as a child and did re-read a couple of times growing up in the 1970s.
The fantastic imagination of the little child(19 March 2012) This appears to have been written earlier than the Faraway Tree series and Blyton's style in this book seems to be quite different as well. Where the Faraway Tree had stories that covered multiple chapters the Wishing Chair has about one adventure per chapter with the exception of two, one takes up two chapters and the grand finale takes up three. Also, where the adult world occasionally intruded into the world of the Faraway Tree, in
Where the Faraway Tree had stories that covered multiple chapters the Wishing Chair has about one adventure per chapter with the exception of two, one takes up two chapters and the grand finale takes up three.
Also, where the adult world occasionally intruded into the world of the Faraway Tree, in that the fairies would come and visit the children in their home, this does not happen in the world of the Wishing Chair.
A couple of the adventures do involve the adult world intruding, but they only involved an incident when the Wishing Chair was going to be sold, where it was then moved into the house, and the other one involved a missing ring.
My kids (4 & 5) just couldn't get enough of this book.
I rationed it at a chapter a night, and they lost all interest in movies or cartoons if it meant no wishing chair - which was my plan all along!
Every night they begged for wishing chair, and at the end they begged for just one more!
This made it easy for little people to keep track of.So for getting kids back into books and away from screens, it worked a treat.However, I did find some of the content objectionable, and would love to hear any recommendations of something along these lines but more up to date.
The Wishing-Chair books aren't as great to me as the Malory Towers or St Claire books because I just love those atmospheres.
However reading these books did bring back some nostalgia for my youth when I would read these at night before bed.
Overall I took this book for what it was...a children's book that doesn't really feel the need to explain itself.
The children don't even have a crazy reaction when the wishing-chair flies for the first time.
Definitely recommend for younger children to play on their imaginations.
These types of books are so important to a person's childhood.
Enid Blyton books were my first favourite as a child, and I explicitly remember those days my primary school teacher would read it to the class. As she told the story, my mind would wonder and visualise the magical scenes, and it made me feel part of the adventure for those few minutes. I would read these books to my own children one day.
This book is another timely classic from Enid Blyton.Set in the older days, 2 children Molly & Peter find a pixie in their garden who they allow to sleep in their play room (a room seperate to the house in the backyard). Along the way a chair comes to be in there. Before long this chair (sparatically) grows wings and the children discover that by sitting in the chair that they can command it to take them anywhere they choose.A whole lot of fun and adventure awaits anyone that reads this timely classic5 STARS.
I read this many many years ago for the first time – I do love Enid Blyton’s fantasy stuff – but the Wishing Chair books really don’t live up to the wonder of the Magic Faraway stories.Quite disjointed really, hopping from one adventure to the next and they seemed like very short adventures for the most part, so you never really felt like you had a chance to enjoy them.Not one of my favourite Blyton stories, but I needed something super easy to read to relax my brain, and that’s what I got.
Two siblings, Mollie and Peter, have numerous adventures on a magical chair. They fly to magical lands, meeting giants, wizards and pixies. Since the edition I own is a reprint of one first published in 1937, I imagine that later editions will have had many elements rewritten. For one thing, the language is dated. Children today no longer use words like 'horrid' to describe things that they don't like.
Logan is usually very patient with older books, which tend to have slower, more detailed narratives. He loved the E. Nesbit books. But somehow, these stories didn't grab either of us. Im not sure if it's because he's already too old for them or if it's that they are too antiquated in the way the children behave. E. Nesbit's characters, despite living in early 19th century London, are quite modern. Blyton's characters don't seem to have that true-to-life spark.
I remember being bored and digging up some dusty hardcover books out of somewhere, and this was one of them. I absolutely loved these stories, and I can still remember how exciting it was to read the description of the wings budding out of the legs of the chair as the kids figured out how to work it.
I think normally I would give this a higher rating but I have just finished the Faraway Tree books and I enjoyed them more than this one. That said, I still enjoyed this although there seems to be more unpleasant incidents than in the Faraway tree series, and fewer quirky characters to get to know.
I was enthralled with this book as a child. Enid Blyton was despised by parents & teachers as her use of language was considered incorrect & a bad influence on children. However, we children adored Enid Blyton! She was our savior from chores & general boredom. We escaped through her imagination!
By far my favourite childhood book. Memory lane.
my childhood. the end
very good and enjoyable.
Lived this book as a child. Looking forward to reading it to my kids.
Great imaginative books for children
