https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22339.Death
As great as the first time that I read it! This the collected edition of the story “Death: The Time of your Life” with an introduction written by the actress, Claire Danes, who is a personal friend of Neil Gaiman, and she was the lead actress in the film adaptation of “Stardust” (another story by Neil Gaiman).Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Chris Bachalo & Mark BuckinghamLetterer: Todd Klein (since he is the best letterer in the business, always it’s relevant to mention that
I read it and I liked it a lot, but of course, I didn’t know anything else about The Sandman’s related material or even the character of Death, but I like a lot the reading experience.Now, that I had read it for second time, right after reading Death: The High Cost of Living, I like it even more, and definitely, I appreciated it even more, since Hazel and Foxglove, the main characters here, they were introduced as support characters in the previous story, so it was awesome to realize that.
I have a bit of a thing for Death.
I really like the concept behind the character so much, and, well, I think she’s rather lovely.
Her calming presence is all they need.
Some of them are sad, and some of them hurt, and some of them think they’re the only real thing in the whole world.
But they’re not creepy.”And then there's this:As great as she is, she took a back-seat in this story and did not feel very present like she did in the previous volume.
It felt like she was appearing in someone else’s story rather than her own.
A nice, short story that doesn't actually feature the main character (Death) very much at all.It's probably best to think of this as a tangent book to the Sandman series, as it deals mostly with the characters from those books.That said, it works fairly well as a stand-alone story, and I think most anyone could read this by itself and still enjoy it quite a bit.
I thought this would be an extra book in the Sandman world about Death, who is my favorite character.
Nope, she is hardly in it.
It's a stand-alone story about a famous singer.
She's depressed and dissatisfied with her career and life.
Death is intertwined in the story, but plays a (way back in the background) background role.
I don't really think there was anything special about this, but it was an okay, quick read.
It is disappointing when you think you are getting a whole story about Death and it's not about her at all, really.
As if that paradox is not enough, Gaiman spawned yet another mini-series featuring Death in a gritty yet hopeful tale that celebrates life, talks about how love can change a person’s way of living, and shows what it means to be alive.A follow-up to Death: The High Cost of Living, Death: The Time of Your Life takes us back to the story of the lesbian couple Donna “Foxglove” Cavanagh and Hazel McNamara.
So she agrees with the bargain: she extends Alvie’s life for a time, and when that time finally runs out, Hazel, Foxglove, and Alvie will be meeting up with her in her realm and someone must stay behind as a payment.
Another story of death, with Death as a character in it! Nice short story, but Death wasn't featured as much as in the first one.The artwork is stunning in this one! The drawings are, still, a bit old-school but the general artwork is amazing!It loses a star because the story was not something extraordinary, but it was cool...
I think the difference between this and the earlier Death: The High Cost of Living is how the first book dealt with far broader concerns and themes, rather than just the single story of Foxglove and Hazel that appears in this one.
In this case, the problem faced by the protagonists--a life is saved at the cost of a life--is really specific to them, and Death is a side character instead of the central figure.
Me, I want the Endless stories featuring Death to be about universal, common-to-humanity things, so I failed to connect with this more narrowly-focused story.
It juggles a myriad of complex issues, such as sexuality, the fleeting nature of fame, the multiple meanings of love, desire, and commitment, and the value of friendship and life.
But this Gaiman we're talking about so rest assured, he's going to take us for a ride that leaves Sandman fans picking up clues as allusions to The Sandman story arcs.Foxglove is struggling personally even as her fame shoots through the roof--she wonders whether she should stay in the closet, and whether she should stay with Hazel and their son Alvie.
Hazel is struggling too; she wants to know the value of her relationship, and to save her son's life, most of all.
3.9  La Muerte es Vida Hasta dónde serías capaz de llegar por el amor de tu vida...Muerte: Lo mejor de tu vida por Neil Gaiman (Chris Bachalo, Mark Buckingham y Mark Penningtones) es un especial de la serie "The Sandman" donde nuestra protagonista es nada más y nada menos que la mismísima Muerte personificada, con un aire punk-rock que la hace lucir excelente. Pero ella no es la única que luce bien en las viñetas, también tenemos a una estrella de rock (Foxglove) que tiene que lidiar con su fama
Una historia repleta de chicas que lejos de ser las típicas "señoritas en peligro" son las que verdaderamente aportan todo el carisma a esta novela.
Sin duda una novela repleta de mensajes y con mucha filosofía detrás, como es costumbre en Gaiman.Opinión PersonalPara ser sinceros me gustó y mucho, estoy empezando a adentrarme en todo este universo y creo que me va a gustar bastante, todo este aire filosófico-existencial que le aporta Gaiman a sus obras es único.
Si bien no me conmovió tanto como "Cazadores de Sueños" no deja de ser una novela gráfica muy buena.
Death: The Time of Your Life is another story which includes Hazel and Foxglove, their son, and Death.
You need to have read Death: The High Cost of Living and the volume of the main series which involves them, or you won't really get what the big deal is.
It's quite a strange story, in which Hazel actually makes a deal with Death -- something apparently unheard of, and which certainly doesn't seem to fit into The Sandman canon.
It basically has a message about/from Death: that she and her job, in a sense, remind us to live.
I loved the concept -- I'm going to try the first "Death..." and see how it is. This one started out strong but didn't live up to Death's potential as a character, in my opinion.

It was good experience reading this comic. There were parts where it got boring and obvious but it had its unique touch in the end anyhow. The comic was made really well, though the concept was fine, as well as the story lie for one could do too much more than that concept. The characters were good and so was the end. Goodread
"Can I ask a stupid question?""Sure.
Why isn't life good all the time?
Why isn't it fair?""Those aren't stupid questions, Hazel.
They make the rest of it matter."Like Death: The High Cost of Living Collected, this volume mostly stands apart from the main Sandman series, so it can probably be read alone.
I think this is the stronger of the two Death volumes, but this is one of those times when I’ve already read a great review and would rather link to it than write one myself.
Porque en cuanto a los secundarios, peca de presentarnos unos sujetos que son muy relevantes para la trama pero no llegan a su "spotlight" en ningún momento.
Hay poca intromisión en sus sentimientos y sus motivaciones, así que cuando toman tal o cual decisión más que importante para la trama uno dice "Ah, pará, ¿entonces era para tanto lo que le pasaba?".
En fin, ya me queda muy poco por leer del universo Sandman de lo que escribió su creador, así que cuando consiga los platos que me faltan, trataré de saborear cada bocado con paciencia sibarita.
The storyline is basicly as follows: Young lesbian mother strikes a deal with Death to save her child - at the same time her partner is pursuing her career as a rock star and that put a strain on their relationship. But Death teaches them the ultimate lesson - both love and life takes sacrifices.It kind of reminded me of one of my favourite Hans Chrstian Andersen stories The story of a mother.I actually liked this one even better than the first in the series - so it's five stars plus.
To není fér! (view spoiler)[Smrt má být nestranná, prostě si vezme toho, čí čas akorát přišel. Ne že ji někdo ukecá a pak si vezme někoho jiného?! (hide spoiler)]Jinak škoda, že Smrt nemá víc dílů, byla by to bombová série. :(["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I did like the idea; Death being a real sweetheart with a goofy umbrella. Still, this felt kind of flat. Also, I did not like the main characters of this particular issue.The art was pretty, though! Which is why I'll try and read another piece from this series.
Další úžasný počin pana Gaimana. :)
Mucho mejor que "Death: The High Cost of Living".
Three stars for Death's (small) appearance. Read this thinking it would be about my favorite Endless, instead it should have been called Lesbians: The Time of Your Life featuring Death.
Gaiman's Death is officially my favorite fictional Death (I haven't read enough of Pratchett's), this series doesn't even feature her all that much, especially in the beginning, but still, a great read and there are a lot of great quotes throughout the book.
É quase tarde demais quando Foxglove afinal volta para casa, seguindo os pedidos de Hazel e Larry, e, sem encontrar o resto da família, apela para o que aprendeu com Tessália.Enquanto isso, acompanhamos Hazel e Morte no que é, afinal, ‘o grande momento da vida’ de que fala o título, quando Hazel rememora toda sua história, especialmente seus momentos com Foxglove, numa representação daquela ideia de que, quando morremos, toda a nossa vida passa num instante por nossos olhos, como um filme.
Although I am a rather adept Neil Gaiman fan I am not exactly pleased with this contribution to the story of Death.
We follow a pop singer, Foxglove, around as the people around her either make deals with Death or die to meet her.
They are good themes, but definitely overused at this point.The characters also seemed a bit out of place and there was a few random scenes that I couldn't quite wrap my head around.
Namely, when Foxglove attempts magic to follow Hazel into the shadow realm where she is talking with Death.
This sort of follows  Death: The High Cost of Living.
Hazel and Foxglove are back, and Hazel's making deals with Death to give her little boy a second chance at life.
It was mostly Hazel and Fox separately recounting the last ten years of their lives.
A lot of tell and not much show...which is an odd complaint to have with a graphic novel, but there you go.The art is great -- simple, with lots of shadows and muted colors.
The color only comes out when things are happy or hopeful.I'm giving this three stars because I feel like the story could have been stronger.
If I had to pick my favorite Endless sibling, after Dream, of course, it would be Death.
While, we would wish that she visits us that infrequently in real life, I wanted more of her, and less of the melodrama of the coming out story.
That being said, if you are in the closet and have coming out drama, or if you want to revisit those angsty days, you might like this one very much.I, however, did not have the time of my life while reading this one.
Готическата сладурана на име Смърт , все така продължава да си върши така старателно работата(ама че работа си има само).
От разнообразие ли , от съжеление или от друга там прищявка решава че този път ще направи сделка от която ...е да речем че прецакани винаги ще има.
Малко ли книги , филми и тн.
има по темата ,за да се направи заключението че сделка с Смъртта НЕ ТРЯБВА да се прави.
Поредния Геймънов трогателен разказ в който ни обяснява за значимите неща в живота , за времето които се изплъзва м/у пръстите ни и никога не се завръща, за времето което прекарваме с любимите хора и за времето в което мечтаем и се опитваме да направим тази мечта реалност.
As morbid as this sounds, I love Death.
She is a very collected, young (well, she appears to be) woman.I've only read two of the Death comics, but I must admit that I love them.
And probably one of my favorite qualities about them is how they connect to each other-- and apparently to the Sandman series (which I haven't read, unfortunately).If you're an adult who still likes comics/graphic novels, I highly recommend the Death series.
It's nice to feel like a kid sometimes, but thankfully the writing style is NOT on a kid level.<3
I was kind of surprised by this. It's Neil Gaiman and therefore was brilliant and touching, but it seemed rushed - like an unrevised first draft. Characters weren't given the loving, understanding attention typical of Gaiman; motives were left unexplained; plot points were left unresolved. A lovely comic, but without the force and inspiration behind Sandman.
This one takes minor characters from The High Cost of Living, who were previously minor characters in the Sandman series, and finishes their story. It's lovely. Where The High Cost of Living wasn't terribly creative, mostly nice because of Death, this one is closer to the Sandman series in depth. Really good.
