https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11691.Snow
Other Good Reads reviewers express the desire to like this book, but proceed to be confused, bored, and insecure.
I’m not so good at post-modern fiction to begin with, but I decided to leave my bias at the door because I had heard such great things about this author, and Pamuk didn’t seem like a bogus poser from what I’d read.
Margaret Atwood says, in the New York Times Book Review “Not only an engrossing feat of tale-spinning, but essential reading for our times.
A social case study.A culture clash.A literary masterpiece.Unreliable narrators.Misogyny.Protest.Political campaigns.Multiple truths.Diverse realities.Deeply moving characters.Darkly funny storylines.Religious fundamentalism.Arrogant humanism.Liberal press coverage.Fake News.National identity divergences.
A book full of LIFE!If anything, it has gained more power in recent years, as we see Turkish democracy facing ever harder challenges, and various traditions clashing with liberal ideas and freedom of thought.
As history moves on, the story of the Istanbul journalist who visits remote Kars to investigate young women's suicides becomes more real, and relevant, and the questions raised shine in a bright new light.The power of a novel to speak truth to power and to enrage people!Recommended to the world!
Most of the men are unemployed and spend their days in teahouses discussing politics and religion.
So much happens in three days and you feel the sadness and despair permeate your being along with guffaws at the ridiculousness of men trying to make sense of their world and fear for women who are trying to survive and be safe.The story is complex, beautiful and you reflect on your own existence and wonder if you are living the fullest life that you have available to you.I very much look forward to reading more of Mr. Pamuk's work.
The author made himself a character in his story.
3. The men in this novel are whiny, infantile, and fall in love with every woman they encounter.
Things happen to the main character without foreshadowing.
As a fellow poet, I hated that the main character wrote 19 poems throughout the novel, but the reader never got to read any of them.
From this novel I am to presume that every Turkish woman is profoundly beautiful and that Turkish men can only drag themselves after these creatures in the hope of being noticed.
Bonus reason: two years later I'm still angry I read this book!
The expatriate poet Ka returns to his native Turkey ostensibly to investigate a growing number of suicides among "head scarf girls" for an article in a German newspaper, but actually to reconnect with the beautiful divorcee Ipek whom he knew in college.
While there, he is caught up in religious and political intrigue.
I also liked the way he portrays the Islamists of Turkish culture--and the secular revolutionaries and artists as well--as fiercely Romantic individualists who are angry at the West--above all other things--because we refuse to recognize and respect the individuality of their religious passion.
پس از خاکسپاری مادر در استانبول، کا خبردار می‌شود، دختری که در زمان دانشجویی، از دور عاشقش بوده، از همسرش جدا شده، به قصد ملاقات او، به شهر شمالی قارص سفر می‌کند.
کا در مدت زمان کوتاهی که در قارص اقامت دارد، موفق می‌شود دل ایپک را به دست آورده، و چه زبانی و چه فیزیکی، عشقش را ابراز کند.
البته یکی از عمیقترین اثرات این خوشبختی این است که کا دوباره توانایی سرودن پیدا کرده، و در مدت چند روز نوزده شعر عاشقانه سروده، که بهترین اشعار عمرش نیز هستند، اشعاری که گویی از وجود کس دیگری سرچشمه می‌گیرند.
Snow is an absurdist novel about religion as community and its communal conflicts.The protagonist, Ka, is a sort of thirty-something adolescent who finds himself in a blizzard, in love, in a state ruled by paranoia, and in the midst of a local revolution begun by a provincial theatre-group (remarkably like a Turkish version of Heinrich Boll's Clown).
The state, since the destruction of the Ottoman Empire, has attempted to replace rather than include local communities within itself.
It uses this power and legal violence to present a binary choice to the population: ‘My Fatherland or My Headscarf.’The intractable conflict created by this situation isn't new in Turkey (nor for that matter in America).
It is a system (and one that Ka participates in throughout the novel) in which women become icons for men, just as Ipek is an icon for Ka. As a result, the initial story that brings Ka to Kars--the suicide girls--drops out of the narrative until even Kadife becomes fed up with it.
But I think that given the focus on writing (Ka cannot discover himself through his poems, Orhan Pamuk cannot discover Ka through the novel, and no one can figure out the suicide girls), identity and politics, this strategy is better.
Pamuk's description of the delicate (and frequently upset) balance between secular and religious fanaticism in modern Turkey is a gripping story.
It is told from a pseudo-autobiographical viewpoint (like DFW's The Pale King) and follows the (mis)adventures of the exiled poet Ka in his return to a town visited in his youth near the Armenian and Georgian borders of eastern Anatolia.
While primarily a narrative, it sheds essential light on the struggles against radical Islam and is even more revelant now in light of the failed coup in Turkey in July 2016.
(Are there any big-time poets left?) He’s hit a dry spell but his muse strikes in Kars and he writes a series of poems, or, we are told, “they write themselves” through his hands in a trance-like state.
“…three days, that’s all it takes, three days and they’re dead: gone, shot, forgotten.” We are told fairly early in the story that the poet was assassinated after his return to Germany and that any number of groups could have been responsible.The narrator makes a point of telling us about his beliefs in a geometry of opposites.
In addition, the narrator keeps telling you what’s going to happen – big stuff, like deaths, etc.
I ended up skimming the last third because I was so annoyed with how all plot tension was gone, the protagonist was quickly becoming a snivelly annoyance, and – here’s my main beef – no poems.
Ka’s whole character hinges on the fact that he’s been blocked for all his years in the West, and when he comes “home” he has this rush of nineteen poems that just flow out of him.
The plot structure even would have allowed at least one poem to be printed, but why couldn’t Pamuk have done even that?
I read a few sample pages of Snow in the bookstore, drawn by its blurry, snowy cover; drawn by a recent New York Times review; drawn by its non-westernized roots in Turkish writer Orhan Pamuk; drawn, too, by curiosity at this recent Nobel Prize winner for literature.
The first few pages mesmerized me, the scene of a Turkish poet riding a bus through the snow capturing my imagination even as I left the bookstore.
Of course, there are exceptions, but when I am in the mood to sink deep into a multi-layered tome, I choose non-western literature, and when I want a quick tap-dance of literary skill, I choose American literature.
The best book you've read full of interesting characters that come alive on page and draw you into the book.Well, you're not going to get that from this book.
Bad enough you'd die of alcohol poisoning drinking the weakest alcohol if you drank every time you saw the word snow in this book but I am at a part where an extremist takes a gun to a principal and goes on and on about head scarves and how girls wearing headscarves will keep them from being raped or harass.
He goes on about how headscarves help a man respect a woman.But you should respect women as people in the first place and NOT rape or harass them whether they're in a bikini or naked or covered from head to toe!
But if what makes a novel a novel is the creation of a world, what makes a novel good is the creation of a tone, a space, a way of seeing the world that reaches outside and it is this quality which I really loved.
You have to read for the humor, indulge the poetry (this is not a veiled language reference, I mean the actual poetry in the text) and take the characters just seriously enough to care but not to mourn.
So maybe, just to indulge my english teacher self once more, what makes a novel great is also this quality--it must be singular enough to be disliked and good enough to love.
"To play the rebel heroine in Turkey, you don't pull off your scarf, you put it on" If you were interested in the whole controversy raised by ban of veil in France a few years ago, then this book too might interest you. It is based on real events in a modern and secular Turkey. Here too there is a ban on wearing head-scarves in universities and like, though this is in a country where the majority of the population is Muslim but rulers are still liberals (or rather ultra-liberals). As a conseque
As a consequence several innocent religious women are deprived of their right to education and, forced to choose between education and religion; they end up committing suicide.
And so, in a way, they must have felt condemned by the very religion they were fighting for.To me, the book shows that the dangers of ultra-liberalism.
Most people sort-of get married with their religious beliefs over time, to force them to leave behind their religion is like forcing a drug addict to abandon his drugs.
And even if you did, religion (or drug) will leave behind a void (a sort of need it has created in person for itself) and the person will never be comfortable.
Orhan Pamuk Türkiye'de söyledikleri pek ciddiye alınmayan, çok konuşulan ama hiç dinlenmeyen biri olsa da, her zaman toplumu analiz etme, tanıma, anlama işine önem vermiştir ve tüm kitaplarında da bunların izlerini görürüz.
Kara Kitap, Yeni Hayat, Benim Adım Kırmızı romanlarında görüyoruz bunu ve deneysel, okuyucuyu zorlayan (bence öyle değil ama insanlar zorlanıyor garip bir şekilde) bir tarzı var.
Burada yine doğu-batı çatışmasının müthiş bir şekilde işlendiğini görüyoruz, ki ben bu mevzunun üstüne kafa yorulmadan Türkiye'nin anlaşılamayacağını düşünüyorum.
Üçüncü dönemi, Kar ile başlayan ve Kırmızı Saçlı Kadına kadar gelen, deneyselliğin görece azaldığı, dilin görece basitleştiği ve toplumla ilgili meselelerin çok daha güçlü bir şekilde işlendiği dönem.
رواية قديرة. استحقت كل ساعة أمضيتها معها. التجريب الذي مارسه باموق هنا في الكتابة بالصوت العليم، الذي هو في الباطن صوتٌ ذاتي، عظيمة. والشخوص المتراوحة ما بين قطبين متضادين، الشخوص المركبة والغنية والخصبة.. يستطيع المرء أن يكتب لأجلها كتبًا.
“It was as if he were in a place that the whole world had forgotten; as if it were snowing at the end of the world.”My first foray into Pamuk territory, Snow is a book about an exiled poet returning to his hometown under the pretense of writing a journalistic article on a suicide epidemic.
I found the drama to be a bit overbearing at times and the scenes can have an absurdist element to it that doesn't come very naturally from Pamuk.
Yet, I found the book to be a refreshing read.
I'll be looking forward to reading more from the writer.
By considering this fictional book as a new and useful approach for me to what are not so far different wounds from ours ; I will write my words …For me ; it is a magnificent novel , a heart breaking one ; discussing the contemporary Turkish conflict between political Islam , tradition & even on a bigger scale ..
this conflict was presented in the novel by fanatics from both sides producing a complete bloody chaos , with the poverty & unemployment as the main feeder for its continuity !
Surah Al-Ahzaab, Verse #59 ‘O Prophet! Tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to draw their cloaks veils all over their bodies that is most convenient that they should be known and not molested: and Allah is Oft-Forgiving Most Merciful."   Ka is travelling by bus: a white scenario outside unfolds: it’s snow, relentlessly falling…and he falls asleep.Ka, or Kerim Alakuşoğlu, a Turkish poet, returns to Kars, an old and small city north-east of Turkey. Kerim, a 42-year-old
Ka is travelling by bus: a white scenario outside unfolds: it’s snow, relentlessly falling…and he falls asleep.Ka, or Kerim Alakuşoğlu, a Turkish poet, returns to Kars, an old and small city north-east of Turkey.
After that, he decides to go to Kars: while traveling by bus to the remote city he lies to someone who inquires him; Ka says he’s going to Kars because he’s a journalist and will report on local elections and the suicide-of-women problem.
They try to halt the suicide rate.In Kars, while talking to the local newspaper editor, Ka sees the snow keeps falling: an incredible amount outside.Purging snow?
And the quiet of this empty city was as if the world had come to an end, and it was snowing.If this were the beginning of a poem, he would have called the thing he felt inside him the silence of snow.He walked the city in the cold, alone with his poems.
There, like the snow, he walked the city quietly, thoughtfully, observantly, deliberately, and Kars became his muse.
Loneliness and despondency are certainly themes in this book, as Ka is faced with those darkening thoughts, even as he experiences moments of euphoria.
I would not have finished this book except for reading it for the book club. I haven't been this bored by a book in a long time.
.Από καιρό ήθελα να διαβάσω έργο του Παμούκ και με μια μικρή έρευνα που έκανα (βασικά στο goodreads) είδα ότι όλα του τα βιβλία θεωρούνται το ίδιο καλά, οπότε διάλεξα το παρόν καθαρά από θέμα τύχης (η επίσκεψή μου στη βιβλιοθήκη δεν πρέπει να κράτησε πάνω από λίγα λεπτά).
Από τη μια η Ευρώπη με τις ιδέες του Διαφωτισμού, της αυτοδιάθεσης και τον τρόπο ντυσίματος και επιπέδου μόρφωσης (ιδίως όσον αφορά στις γυναίκες) είναι πολύ κοντά στη χώρα, Τούρκοι πολίτες ταξιδεύουν συχνά, ενώ από την άλλη το Ιράν (με την Ισλαμική Επανάσταση) και άλλες φανατικές μουσουλμανικές χώρες την περιτριγυρίζουν και φυσικά επηρεάζουν τους κατοίκους της.
Existe um traço melancólico enfatizado pela neve e pelo isolamento da vila e das vidas de cada personagem que caracterizam a atmosfera e a tornam muito particular, por isso a meio do livro e quando fora das suas páginas, damos por nós invariavelmente a pensar “quando volto para Kars”.A escrita impressiona, embora como o tema, não é para todos os gostos.
“Neve” funciona como uma espécie de fábula imparável em que o protagonista, um poeta acabado de passar por uma crise de inspiração, recomeça a escrever, mas não nos fala, chega-nos por meio de um romancista, que tem o mesmo nome de Pamuk, e que está a escrever um livro sobre esse poeta.
O. Pamuk -aslında birçok yazarın yapmış olduğu gibi- bir roman yazmadan önce oluşan fikir üzerinden araştırmalar yapan, gözlemleyen, mekanları bizzat ziyaret eden, notlar alan, hatta roman sürecinde bazı fotoğrafları cebinde taşıyan bir yazar.
Bu noktada da en trajikomik eleştiri geliyor : anlatılanlar Kars şehrimizi kötü gösterdi, Kars böyle bir yer değil.Bütün bunları derin ve sindirerek düşünmeyince kişiler üzerinden karalamalar yapılıyor, sanatın toplum için ve topluma yönelik olması gerekliliği (?!) savunularak yazarın zihnine saldırıda bulunuluyor, belirli siyasi düşüncelerin öne çıkarıldığı, propaganda yapıldığı hatta daha da ileri giderek yazarın Türkçe'yi kullanmayı bilmediği söyleniyor.
Από την μία οι οπαδοί του κοσμικού κράτους που επιθυμούν η Τουρκία να προσεγγίσει τη δύση και να ξεφορτωθεί όλα αυτά τα θρησκευτικά και πολιτιστικά στοιχεία που θεωρούν ότι κρατάνε τη χώρα τους πίσω, από την άλλη οι ισλαμιστές, μετριοπαθείς και φανατικοί, που επιθυμούν μία επιστροφή στις παραδοσιακές αξίες.
Μέσα σε όλα αυτά κάπου προκύπτει και ο έρωτας αλλά φαίνεται ότι ακόμα και αυτός είναι εξίσου χαοτικός.
Όλα αυτά σε ένα βιβλίο εξαιρετικό, με μία γραφή ζουμερή και μερακλίδικη που συνοδεύει μία συγγραφική μάτια αιχμηρή και ιδιαίτερα διεισδυτική.
τουρκική, κάτι που σημαίνει ότι αρκετά μεγάλο μέρος του βιβλίου είναι δύσκολο να κατανοηθεί από τους απ' έξω.
The snow means many different things to different people, and we see how that plays out over the course of these days- with results that largely end up more or less disastrous for all sides.Ka himself was purportedly drawn to the city to write an article about the "suicide girls,"- a high number of local women and girls who had committed suicide in a very short period of time, a story that had gotten some play in Istanbul and Germany.
Though Pamuk is recognized as a first-rate author, and I do not gainsay his talent, unlike these more accomplished works, after the first 200 pages or so of Snow, it began to feel like a depressing slog, and then it went on for another 250 pages after that.Yes, I recognized his method here, the rather meta construct involved.
Because the residents of Turkey (and in particular the town of Kars, in the far eastern part of the country) were and are living through their own depressing slog, which seems to be broken up only by the terror that from time to time enters their lives.This book was very timely for me, too, because while I was reading it, the terrorist attacks in Paris took place.
There is no real character development.
That doesn't count as character development.
In fact, he was usually the target of this hate speech as representing the atheistic west.
I didn't know he was an atheist until told so, long after he realized that snow made him think of God. I found it unbelievable that right out of nowhere would an atheist think of God when he saw snow.This is on Boxall's 1001 Books You Should Read Before You Die. Opinions vary.
My opinion is that you would die more easily and happily without having read this.
জারমানির রাজনৈতিক আশরয় থেকে দীরঘদিন পরে নিজের শহর কারস-এ ফিরলো কবি কেরিম আলাকসুগুলু, একে আমরা কা নামেই চিনবো। পরের কয়েকটা দিন সেই ছোটটো শহর কারস একেবারে বিচছিনন হয়ে ছিটকে গেলো দুনিয়া থেকে। কেনো? না, দিন নাই- রাত নাই- সেখানে তুষার কেবল ঝরেই যাচছে, থামাথামি নাই। তুরকি ভাষায় তুষারকে বলা হয় কার, পামুকের ‘সনো’ তাই কারস শহরে কারের মাঝে কা’এর কয়েকটা দিনের গলপ।কবি হলেও কা লোকটা নিজ শহরে ফিরেছে বলা যায় একরকম সাংবাদিকতা করতেই। কলেজ করতৃপকষের চাপে মাথার হিজাব খুলতে বাধয হয়েছে বলে আতমহতযা করেছে কজন মেয়ে (বল
না, দিন নাই- রাত নাই- সেখানে তুষার কেবল ঝরেই যাচ্ছে, থামাথামি নাই। তুর্কি ভাষায় তুষারকে বলা হয় কার, পামুকের ‘স্নো’ তাই কার্স শহরে কারের মাঝে কা’এর কয়েকটা দিনের গল্প।কবি হলেও কা লোকটা নিজ শহরে ফিরেছে বলা যায় একরকম সাংবাদিকতা করতেই। কলেজ কর্তৃপক্ষের চাপে মাথার হিজাব খুলতে বাধ্য হয়েছে বলে আত্মহত্যা করেছে কজন মেয়ে (বলে রাখা ভালো, উল্টো দিকের কাহিনিও বেরিয়ে এসেছে এই উপন্যাসেই), কা এসেছে এরই অনুসন্ধান করতে। তা ফেরত এসে কবি আবারো গিয়ে পড়লো নিজের পুরনো সহপাঠিনীর খপ্পরে, যার প্রতি সে বেশ দূর্বলই ছিলো একসময়। ইপেক। এই দুজনের পাশাপাশি ইসলামি আন্দোলনের নেতা ব্লু, কাদিফে (ইপেকের বোন) সহ আরো কিছু চরিত্র যথেষ্ট বেগবান হয়ে ওঠে কাহিনিতে। পাঠককে অবাক করে পামুক নিজেও একসময় ঢুকে পড়েন কাহিনিতে। পামুকের ভাষার কথা আগেও বলেছি কোথাও, আশ্চর্য ঝরঝরে গদ্য, ধরা ছোঁয়ার মাঝে থেকেও সে ভালোই অভিজাত, সমীহ করতে হয়। এ প্রশংসা পামুকের কানে গেছে কি না কে জানে- নইলে স্নো’তে আগাগোড়া ভাষার দিকে এমন মাত্রাতিরিক্ত মনোযোগ কেনো?
