https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8563911-pickman-s-model
Cthulu and Woody Allen walk through New York’s Central Park and discuss H.P. Lovecraft’s novella Pickman’s Model.Woody: I mean, it’s art, it’s about an artist and his inspirations and what he sees and observed, so what if it’s ghoulish and murky.Cthulhu: But don’t you think the subject matter is too dark?Woody: What are you kidding me, dark?
Only when it's being done right.Cthulhu: That’s funny, but don’t you think that in Pickman’s Model, you had more going on than dirty, perverse sex?
I mean, there is an artist who is mesmerized by devilish images.Woody: Sex is the most fun you can have without laughing.Cthulhu: Ok, but what do you think was Lovecraft’s central theme in Pickman’s Model?
Written in 1926, the tale’s narrator, Thurber, a Bostonian gentleman and art connoisseur, speaks of the paintings and drawings of artist Pickman in ways that anticipate how many modern artists employ graphics and digital technology to create their own dark worlds of horror and terror.
First published in Weird Tales (October 1927), “Pickman’s Model”--although perhaps a little too pat and slick to rank among Lovecraft’s best—is not only remarkably effective as a piece of terror but also presents one of the clearest articulations of Lovecraft’s aesthetics that may be discovered in the tales themselves, asserting the paradox that the creation of otherwordly terror requires, above all, a realist’s eye and an expert’s knack for bringing the most unreal things into breathing, believable life.Thurber, the narrator of our tale, describes to his friend Eliot the story of the painter Richard Upton Pickman, a man ostracized from good society because of the controversial and appalling images that he has chosen to commit to canvas.
A spooky BR with Craig and Lovecraft as our entertainer.I read it last night. A peculiar story. I drifted a couple of times in the beginning! It's quite bad as the story is short :D But, I must admit that this a bit creepy story worked for me in a way, the atmosphere was quite well created. I guess I had a stronger feeling just because it reminded me of Slade's Saxon (Ghoul) in a way. The main character felt like an odd person, too. But I prefer Slade's version more, it was way more believable! :)You should be! :D
The narrator descends to a metaphorical and possibly literal netherworld that wasn’t “merely made, but actually grew”.“It isn’t so very far from the elevated as distance goes, but it’s centuries away as the soul goes.”Lovecraft carefully ramps up unease at the unknown.
Image: “Insight into Hell 3” by Hieronymus Bosch, c1500 (Source.)“Only a real artist knows the actual anatomy of the terrible or the physiology of fear… It’s my business to catch the overtones of the soul.”Setting a horror story in the context of Bostonian artists creates an excellent disconnect that Lovecraft milks like an expert but sadistic dairymaid.
A re-read.When someone speaks of an artist's model, the first thing that probably leaps to mind is an attractive woman. But when an artist specializes in painting the weird, the grotesque and the macabre, the feminine form is likely not what he's seeking out. When the artist in this story invites a fan to see his secret studio, in the depths of Boston's North End slums, what is revealed has implications for the whole city.
The narrator, Thurber, is telling his friend Elliot about the reason he 'dropped' Pickman when he admired him and his art so much.
The rest is retelling of the last time he saw Pickman and his horrifying paintings.Thurber starts with less important aspects of Pickman's art and behaviour, or at least the things that are already familiar to Elliot.
Then the descriptions gradually become more and more sinister and horrifying only to end the story on the highest (for the story) note.
The way the story ends is still creepy.
It is even more interesting to check all the artists mentioned in the story when Thurber compares them to Pickman's art.
I particularly liked this one, as his urban nightmare type stories go.
Narrator is reduced to nervous wreck by what he has seen." This could describe any number of Lovecraft's stories, but it continues to prove an excellent premise to draw out the vast array of weird and wonderful ideas he had.At first I thought this would turn into 'Lovecraft does Dorian Gray', like The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath is 'Lovecraft does The Wizard of Oz', but no - that would not be open-ended enough for this author.
Having become interested in Caitlin R. Kiernan's "sequel", 'Pickman's Other Model', I decided to reread Lovecraft's original. It's a short, well-written story about an artist with a penchant for unconventional subject matter. This weird tale builds up the suspense gradually, a common trope of H.P., and gives you the ending you were expecting all along. Atmospheric, creepy, slightly racist Lovecraft fare."It was the faces, Eliot, those accursed faces, that leered and slavered out of the canvas with the very breath of life!"
One shouldn't judge the creature for taking on some extra work as a life model. Paying for college can be tough. My favorite things about this story is that Fallout 4 has a location called Pickman Gallery, which had an awesome little sub-plot.
Chilling. Artistic. Fantastic.Also, too short.
According to wikipedia, 'An H. P. Lovecraft Encyclopedia dismisses the story as "relatively conventional"'.If by that they mean "boring" and "nothing happens", then I suppose that is true. I was never sold on our narrator's fear and did not see the slightest reason for it until the last moment, by which time it was too late.
The ending twist is visible from space, but that doesn't detract from the story.Lovecraft evokes a dark and mysterious setting, with the character of Pickman painted with particular relish.Whilst it's never going to set you screaming, it's a deeply unsettling tale, although tame by modern standards, Lovecraft leaves you to imagine your own worst horrors and give yourself sleepless nights.
This one didn't do much for me. The ending was exactly what I expected, and it was... dull. "The Thing on the Doorstep," my first Lovecraft, was more fun. Next up... "The Cats of Ulthar," "The Call of Cthulhu," "The Music of Erich Zann," "The Whisperer in Darkness," "The Shadow over Innsmouth."
This was a very creepy story.
¡Ah, Lovecraft!
Siempre nos sumerges en un ambiente de terror que termina en la locura de tus solitarios personajes, destruyes su humanidad y su cordura.
"El modelo de Pickman" Es un cuento corto fabuloso, al tener como principal premisa la pintura, está plagada de referencias estéticas y culturales.
Se nota el basto conocimiento de Lovecraft al querer impresionar al lector con sus detalles estéticos.
"¡Fueron los rostros, Eliot, aquellos malditos rostros, que miraban de soslayo y parecían querer salirse ansiosamente del lienzo con un verdadero aliento vital!"}"Lo que veíamos no era simplemente la interpretación de un artista; era el mismo pandemónium, nítidamente reproducido con la más absoluta objetividad."
The first Lovecraft that left me truly offended. Not because of his usual racism or classicism, or his cop out 'it was too hideous to describe, so I won't bother trying to be imaginative' habit, but because it's a laborious trip, that is neither fun or engaging, towards an ending twist so thoughly expected and incredibly obvious that Lovecraft must assume his readers have intellects rivalling broken toasters.
i think the reason for the story take 2 , the end . i felt like she is incomplete .
This oil-based grotesquery is one of Goya’s 14 so-called Black Paintings, all of which he painted directly onto the walls of his two-story residence, as a haunted, embittered, death-fearing septuagenarian.
“Pickman’s Model” is one of Lovecraft’s most interestingly structured, centred around a progressively more inebriated one-way dialogue between the narrator and some unnamed acquaintance, punctuated by ad-lib cogitations on ‘real art & artistry’ and – towards the end of it – nervous summaries of choice paintings in Pickman’s gloomy, faraway workshop/gallery.
One of many dearest pen pals was his fellow writer-of-the-weird Clark Ashton Smith, whose flabby creations in sculpture and painting Lovecraft paid tribute to by namedropping them in a number of his stories, including “Pickman’s Model”.
El monstruo estaba allí —miraba ferozmente y roía, roía y miraba ferozmente—, y supe que sólo una suspensión de las leyes de la Naturaleza podía haberle permitido a un hombre pintar una cosa como aquélla sin un modelo...
sin haberse asomado a un mundo infrahumano poblado por seres de pesadilla».ESTE-CUENTO-ME-FASCINÓ.En serio, Lovecraft me está impresionando.«Lo que veíamos no era la simple interpretación de un artista, sino el propio infierno, reproducido con inflexible objetividad.
Pickman no era un imaginativo ni un romántico: se limitaba a reflejar un mundo de horror que él veía en toda su plenitud.
Standard Lovecraft. I feel like at a certain point, all his stories start to sound the same. Strange religions that raise forgotten demons that are so horrible they will drive a man insane, blah blah blah. It's good, but it's nothing different than most of what he's written. I enjoyed the first few books and stories I read by him much more because I was surprised more.
Very formulaic, and the ending of the story can be seen from miles away. The imagery is good, granted, but this one seems to follow his usual formula a little too closely. I hope his style evolves as I continue to read through his collected works.
It's been a long time since I've read anything from Lovecraft, and even what I have read is pretty limited.
This was alright, although probably not the ideal place to start.The environment was spooky, as is to be expected.
I just felt a bit underwhelmed by the execution of the plot.
That said, I just felt like I was waiting for something a bit more ominous or frightening to happen, and the climax didn't provide that.
If you're planning on going through a number of Lovecraft stories as I am, this is probably not the ideal starting point.

Good and creepy
"It takes profound art and profound insight into Nature to turn out stuff like Pickman's.
Funny thing is, I do sometimes laugh at his work.In the context of the story though: OK, dude you already know that (view spoiler)[ Pickman paints from photographs  (hide spoiler)] so maybe he isn't such a great imaginative mind after all...and if, as it is suggested, (view spoiler)[ Pickman is a changeling  (hide spoiler)] getting access to these scenes wouldn't be that hard.
His art has all the subtlety of a a family photographer.
El modelo Pickman es un cuento breve de uno de los maestros del terror y, por lo tanto, al leerlo, hace que se nos ponga la piel de gallina.
En mi opinión, el final resulta ser bastante obvio, aunque tal vez no lo fuera cuando la obra se publicó, pero no importa, porque el espanto no radica, a mi entender, sólo en el desenlace sino en el tono con que Lovecraft describe las pinturas de Pickman.
Lo que no vemos, pero que sospechamos que está allí, puede causarnos un temor aún mayor que la confirmación misma de nuestras propias intrigas .
No en vano, el narrador de la historia prefiere evitar caminar por ciertas calles o tomar el subterráneo.
Do you ever want to know where artists get their ideas for horror illustrations? Maybe it's better not to know.Pickman also appears in the story, The Dream-quest of Unknown Kadath.
Son excelentes estos libritos de clásicos del terror de Planeta... todas las historias son buenas, esta de Lovecraft esta buenísima... ojalá los pueda conseguir todos.
Un buen cuento con una buena historia, sin embargo sentí que le hizo falta algo mas
