https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254316.Cancer_Ward
At the time when I first read this, I didn't know much of the Soviet Union, or of writers' fate within that state, or of cancer and its silent, treacherous spread in secret weak spots of the body.
But some fears grow with knowledge - and the Cancer Ward plays on exactly that kind of human terror.Although it is meant to be a metaphorical story, indicating the macrocosm of the state in the microcosm of the ward, there is no real need for symbolism in the frustratingly hopeless cancer ward, where people with desperate diagnoses gather without any previous connection or anything in common except for the silent killer they have discovered within their bodies.
My Dad loved Solzhenitsyn, of course, and he held the great author up as an example of everything that was wrong with the Commies.
The lenses I saw Cancer Ward through were Star Spangled, and even though I couldn't get through Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's dreary world that first time, I always loved the book and wanted to try reading it again because it made my world -- my North American world -- so much brighter.
And damn did it feel good to have my moral and ideological superiority confirmed by a man who had lived "under" Communism.My lenses aren't Star Spangled anymore, and that same hundred pages that I read when I was twelve revealed a society that I can walk out my door and see today.
Oleg Kostoglotov is lying on the floor of a provincial hospital, at the entrance to the cancer ward, which is unpromising named , the 13th wing, looking up at the cold ceiling, his dead eyes stare.
To the inmates of the cancer ward, reading, is enjoyable, their only entertainment, to pass the dreary time, boredom makes them lethargic.
Still Oleg Kostoglotov, even has time to romance two women, Vera, a pretty, friendly doctor in the hospital, and Zoya, even more beautiful and younger nurse, studying to become a physician also.
Cancer Ward can be read purely as a literary work, without the reader ever knowing the circumstances in which it was written, without recognizing the larger picture that the book rounds up, of the excruciatingly totalitarian regime under which Russian writers, intellectuals and artists worked, and were finally silenced if they raised their voices against oppression.
Despite being confined to the same small space and sharing a common fate, they are very colourful, different from each other and interesting in their own right.
They develop beautifully, right before the eyes of the reader, through their interactions, thoughts, reactions to what life throws at them.
All the way being told that freedom is the utmost human right.
It is about fear and loneliness; about the flesh and the soul; about the equal right of life of every living creature.
Most of us have had some dealings with it, some more than others… it’s one of the nastiest things out there… rots you from the inside out, leaves you to dwell on things left unaccomplished and fills your head with messy words like ‘sarcoma’, ‘carcinoma’, ‘lymphoma’, ‘melanoma’, and you know, the biggie: ‘death.’ So, here it is the beginning of Spring, the most joyous of times, birds tweeting, flowers sprouting...
and I’m reading about a ward full of cancer patients in Soviet Uzbekistan circa 1955.Joy. Actually, the thing is, it was.
“In the midst of life we are in death.” The beauty of Cancer Ward is that it illustrates the fact that, quite often, the opposite is true too: even in the midst of death, we can still find so much life. For me, this was by far the most compelling aspect of the novel, that the characters you meet are so vibrantly, tenaciously alive, and that they feel so utterly real. Solzhenitsyn wrote this with his whole heart; his compassion for his characters is undeniable. Overall, an unexpectedly life-affi
“In the midst of life we are in death.”
The beauty of Cancer Ward is that it illustrates the fact that, quite often, the opposite is true too: even in the midst of death, we can still find so much life. For me, this was by far the most compelling aspect of the novel, that the characters you meet are so vibrantly, tenaciously alive, and that they feel so utterly real. Solzhenitsyn wrote this with his whole heart; his compassion for his characters is undeniable. Overall, an unexpectedly life-affirming, heartening look at the human condition!
And I don't mean three years lying in the clinic, I mean three years in the field."'When you're born, you wriggle; when you grow up, you run wild; when you die, that's your lot.'"Living longer doesn't mean having long life.""The falsest line of reasoning would be to treat what he was losing as a premise: how happy he'd have been, how far he'd have got, what he'd have attained if only he'd lived longer.
A man of no talent craves long life, yet Epicurus had once observed that a fool, if offered eternity, would not know what to do with it.Cancer Ward (CW) consciously strives for the epic, readily aware of the distance between itself and the baggy monsters of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky and yet sways in the limitations of the material especially in moral terms.
Caught almost in the sway of self-conscious people becoming cynical.
Matters are more organic -- the effects of the Purge, the show trials -- they are returning-- as the metaphysical meaning of Remission becomes palpable , even rendered upon the very flesh of the sick.
Tolstoy's vision is by and large a more positive one, transcendence a possibility, scythe in hand or on the battlefield, Ivan Denisovitch's brief burst of work-pride by contrast suggests the impossibility of transcendence, one can only approximate it.That I guess is his point, soviet man is in his view too far fallen from Uvarov's 'Orthodoxy, Autocracy and Nationality' for such experiences, the only answer as Voinovich playfully suggested in Moscow 2042 is to return to the Seventeenth Century.I still like the cover though, with the implied weekends spent searching through sheds and outhouses for appropriately shabby tools.
Dostoevsky said about Victor Hugo's The Last Day of a Condemned Man, "Absolutely the most read and truthful of everything that Hugo wrote." Without being arrogant and just my strong opinion as a reader, Cancer Ward has to be the most human and honest book by Solzhenitsyn.
You can read this as a modern day cancer book or one on health care or more importantly, heath care ethics.
It should be recommended reading for everyone going into the Health Care Field in any capacity.
Another nice little cancer!""The hard lump of his tumor—unexpected, meaningless and quite without use—had dragged him in like a fish on a hook and flung him onto this iron bed—a narrow, mean bed, with creaking springs and an apology for a mattress."Solzhenitsyn writes beautifully about human physical, moral, social, and political conditions; over-layering each consideration one upon the other.
His books do not depress me, I find them powerful and hopeful documents to the strength of the human spirit.
The patients come from different backgrounds, different political hemispheres, laying in beds alongside each other, each battling their particular sicknesses, pains and fears.I find Solzhenitsyn's writing has something in common with American Southern Gothic.
Finally, a Russian book that I REALLY liked! This is an extremely well written, slow paced story of the daily life of patients and employees at a cancer ward somewhere in an Asian Soviet republic in 1954, with the soviet mindset, customs, oppression and resignation, coupled with fear of death. Wonderfully interesting!
Cancer Ward is like all the other greats of Russian literature: Dense, passionate and rewarding. This truly beautiful novel is, to me, the best Russian novel of the twentieth century, and Solzhenitsyn is one of Russia's greatest writers ever to have lived.
As the cliche goes, money is the root of all evil, and many would agree that indeed it is. On the contrary, it contradicts the essence of what had become human living since time immemorial. As human living immersed itself voluntarily in the deep dark materiality of existence, as it is beleaguered by the sensual pleasures of physicality. In truth, the want of money is only a direct object. It appears only as the end goal to attain the inexhaustible, human yearning for  material happiness . This b
tries to redeem through his Christ like vision of passivity.Soviet Russia under the tyrannical regime of Stalin was gripped by the might of his human cruelty, social oppression and the injustice of his political repression, casting his dark shadow over the country in the midst of turmoil, as it blanketed the tortured lives of the many into the oblivion of dreamless isolation.Cancer Ward is a seamless reenactment of this fatal social condition, surprisingly overwhelming in the pureness of its simplicity, as it is written in the fluidity of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's masterful technique.
سولژنیتسن در کتاب بخش سرطان تلاش می کند وضعیت اسفبار شوروی را توصیف کند.
او از زبان شخصیت های داستان به ویژه اولگ از اردوگاه های کار اجباری، خفقان و بی عدالتی ها می گوید.
آنچه بارز است این است که افراد از حقیقت گریزان هستند حتی پزشکان بخش سرطان.
آن ها می خواهند با خودفریبی و دگرفریبی خود را تسکین دهند اما این کار برایشان ثمری ندارد.
اسامی زیاد و پیچیده در این رمان گاهی خواندن آن و پیگیری مسیر داستان را دشوار می کند.
اما زبان ساده ی نویسنده و تلاش بی نظیر او برای برملا ساختن حقیقت بر جذابیت داستان می افزاید.
I loved this book about life as is and how it should not be. It's a very sad story and somehow the ending left me with broken heart.
This work of Russian literature -which is quite epic in scope-deals with many themes.It is set in a 
The greyness of the cancer theme (it's set in a cancer ward) is just like a mirroring backdrop for the Soviet Union that it showcases.
Vignettes of the lives of patients, doctors, nurses and others; from the high-ranking and staunch Soviet bureaucrat Rusanov to the poor exile Kostoglotov, it breaks their political and ideological positions down to their narrower human concerns and desires, such as the materialism of Rusanov's home that he enjoys, or Kostoglotov's desire for a woman that takes up much of the novel.
Remekdjelo. Naići na ovakvu knjigu je kao i naići na biser u školjci. Jedna u tisuću. Svaka stranica priča za sebe koja te tjera na razmišljanje i sagledavanje životnih prioriteta iz sasvim drugih uglova.Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn je jedini rus kojeg sam mogao pročitati do kraja a moja ga žena naprosto obožava. Skoro smo i sina nazvali po njemu :)
当暴力上台时，它对人们大喊：“我是暴力，快让开！”人们于是惊恐、惧怕并躲让暴力但是久而久之，人们知道暴力不过如此，不管它如何大发淫威，或者，即使在受到伤害前也已知道如何避免和对抗它，所以人们不再惊恐和惧怕它了暴力觉得这样下去不是个办法，于是它就和谎言成了好朋友
Read literally- it's a look at the lives of cancer ward patients, who are also dealing with a reign of terror in their bodies.
The seemingly educated man of the ward seems to be the one least versed in the way of the new, Stalin free, world.
This rings true for the allegorical side of the novel, all these seemingly smart people who are highly educated but who let themselves be involved with Stalin, his regime, the purging that went on etc etc.
Perdonatemi, ma amo Solzenicyn. Questa opera per me è un piccolo capolavoro. E' la storia di un uomo restituito alla vita, un deportato che riemerge dalla prigionia staliniana grazie alla morte del dittatore e riesce a vincere inspiegabilmente il cancro. Dimesso dal reparto oncologico che per mesi è stato tutto il suo mondo, graziato dalla provvidenza, o dal caso (per chi non crede), vaga in una città estranea (Tashkent) sradicato da tutto e cerca un amore impossibile nelle persone di un'infermiera e di una dottoressa del "Reparto C".

There's something sobering about this novel.Weighing in at over 500 pages and easily the heaviest thing in my bag, Cancer Ward would seem to come to a definite conclusion, be it comforting or disturbing, by its denouement.
And touch he does: Solzhenitsyn set the novel in a Cancer Ward on the outskirts of the USSR in the mid-50's, and used this locale masterfully as a touching-point for his clear observations of both life and death.
Kostoglotov realizes this and fights for his freedom with all that he has; he sneaks books, questions doctors, does all that a peasant man can do to try to take hold of his life once again.
In this novel Solsjenitsyn is above all a Russian writer: lots of characters (patients, doctors, nurses in the cancer ward of a hospital, somewhere in Central Asia, in the mid-50's, in full Soviet era).
Solsjenitsyn gives a most uncompromising critic on the soviet system, namely by showing the effect it has on real people.
The last 100 pages are beautiful: the main character, Kostoglotov, leaves the cancer ward, still a bit unstable and enters the nearby city, observing everything with wondering eyes; it has been 12 years since he has been in the real world.
I was slow to pick this one up, "After all," I thought, "how interesting can a book be about a ward full of cancer patients?" The answer is very interesting. This is an excellent book. It is a remarkable contrast to the epic fictional works of his that I've read of his. It is intimate, romantic, personal, and tragic. I heartily recommend this book.
Istinski velika knjiga. Kroz pacijente i osoblje odjela za rak odslikava se Rusija (SSSR) u doba Staljina. Pošto je knjiga poluautobiografska, pitala sam se što je fikcija a što stvarnost. Protkana je sa toliko mnogo prelijepih misli o životu, smrti, sreći... Knjiga koja tjera na razmišljanje.
در اين بيمارستان تبعيدي ها در و صاحبان مقامات دولتي در كنار هم و در شرايط مساوي مجبور به تحمل دوران درمان خود هستند، جراحيهايي كه صورت مي گيريد، اميدهايي كه همراه عضو قطع شده بر باد مي رود و بيماراني كه تنها ارزومند سه سال زندگي براي رسيدن به اهداف خود هستند و حتي پزشكي كه خود در دام سرطان مي افتد، همه با قلم شيواي نويسنده توصيف شده است.
اين اثر درون مايه ي اجتماعي و تاريخي داشته و افراد با ديدگاه ها و سرنوشت هاي مختلف سياسي با حمله ي سلولهاي سرطاني در كنار هم قرار گرفته اند و در روزهاي تلخ و طولاني معالجات گاه به توصيف گذشته ي خود مي پردازند.
My first was One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, upon which I wrote a frustrating and rather dull essay entitled 'Past and Present in the Works of Solzhenitsyn and Chekhov', or something of that genre.
In my mind, I didn't (still don't, particularly) distinguish Solzhenitsyn from someone like, for example, Esther Herzog, who wrote The Endless Steppe.
The only thing that existed in that instant was the world of the character, as seen by that character.I don't remember much else about the book.
The sheer magnitude of the skill with which Solzhenitsyn wrote took up all the allotted memory-space for this book.
