https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39671.The_Real_Frank_Zappa_Book

How did we get there?) This is definitely stream of consciousness writing, complete with generous and inappropriate use of italics, bold, CAPS, and underlines, which becomes quite annoying after the first 50 pages.Still, some of the rants might be of interest, depending on your point of view.
Read the book if you like Zappa’s music and/or satire, but feel free to skip sections you’re not enjoying.
You can pick up (or leave) his stream of consciousness at any point.
Whether you like Frank Zappa's music or not (of course you do), I can't recommend this book enough...it is Hilarious (note the capital "H")...he had a terrific perspective on the world, and the most perfect sense of humor. I want to read it again just thinking about it.
That’s right, it’s the PMRC!The Parent Music Resource Center was the result (if we are to believe the legend) of a bored housewife hearing her daughter’s Prince LP, specifically the song “Darling Nikki” and its masturbation reference and FLIPPING OUT.
I’m done talking about Back In Control because it gives me the willies but, if you aren’t familiar, it makes for as good a bedtime read as any horror story.I think it’s unfortunate for society that Zappa passed away so young because we could all use a little of his input right now.
I read this book so long ago.It belonged to my boyfriend at the time, Michael Schneider.
I read this book while we waited for car repairs.
Let me say right off that I love Frank Zappa.
But this book is a disappointment.
It's got way, way too much about his appearance before Congress and his disdain for organized religion (though God knows I love zingers against politicians and Jerry Falwell--but just because he's right doesn't make it not boring) and not enough about, you know, his MUSIC.
There is also a non-chronological lack of flow to the book.
I couldn't help but think, Jeez, he must have better stories than these.
His Captain Beefheart stories alone, I imagine, would make a better book.
started out great, seemed to be full of delightful anecdotes and stories, but in the meantime transformed into boring babbling about pretty much everything. i prefer different streams of consciousness.
პოლიტიკის მიმართ ოდნავი ინტერესი მაინც რომ მქონდეს იმ ერთ ვარსკვლავს არ ჩამოვაკლებდი ამ ოქრო კაცს <3
This is a brilliant and very funny book. It has great insights into the current state of America, music, politics, televangelism, and much more. The biography of Zappa is only a small part of the book. The rest is devoted to his thought on various issues, and deserves reading. An excellent read!
Very important in my teenage years. Introduced me to a lot of important ideas, none so important as the John Cage bit: "If John Cage, for instance, says 'I'm putting a contact microphone on my throat, and I'm going to drink carrot juice, and that's my composition,' then his gurgling qualifies as his composition because he put a frame around it and said so. 'Take it or leave it, I now will this to be music.' After that, it's a matter of taste."
HERE's a REAL fake=Review ;; one that won't make you hurl.Please listen as our Central Scrutinizer saves us from the dangers of Music ::Welcome to Joe's Garage -- the whole damn thing!!!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XCw2y8...The White Zone is for loading and unloading only....
Hilarious, down to earth. He's as much a movement as a composer. I didn't love all his musical work, didn't even love half of it but his revolutionary irreverence holds an importance to me I can't overstate.
כמו לא מעט גאונים, זאפה הלך לעולמו מוקדם מדי ובמקרה שלו בגיל 53 ממחלת הסרטן הארורה.לדעתי הספר הזה יעניין בעיקר מעריצים של פרנק זאפה המוזיקאי (כמוני..).
עוד פרט שהפתיע אותי הוא זה שזאפה הודה שלמעט השירים שכללו סאטירה פוליטית, אותם הוא נהנה לכתוב, כל שאר השירים שכללו הומור שחלקו "נמוך" ולעיתים "מלוכלך" לא היו באים לאוויר העולם לולא העובדה שהמוזיקה האינסטרומנטלית איננה פופולרית ולכן היה צורך לבצע התאמות ווקליות וזאת מהפחד לאבד פרנסה...הספר מבחינת העניין הכללי שלי הן כמעריץ אבל גם כקורא שאיננו אמריקאי צריך לקבל 3 כוכבים, לא יותר מכך.
I bought this because I wanted to read whatever Frank Zappa wanted to write a book about.
In fact, the very first sentence reads "I don't want to write a book, but I'm going to do it anyway, because Peter Occhiogrosso is going to help me."This book is actually pretty damn cute, oddly enough.
I knew people got tired of the ramblings, as I also did, but I still wanted to read this just because it's the only book he wrote.
Предполагалось, что Заппа станет травить байки из собственной жизни, но он всячески избегает это делать, коварно выдавив за всю книгу меньше десятка и почти все безобидные.
Мы ждали сегодня очень важных гостей — к нам должен был прийти Джордж Линкольн Рокуэлл, вождь Американской Нацистской партии, — к сожалению, он прийти не смог, — но зато здесь присутствует Джон Уэйн».Только я это сказал, как он встал из-за столика, доковылял до танцплощадки и принялся держать речь.
В результате всех этих экспериментов все его тело покрылось нелепыми буграми — однако это было только начало.В один прекрасный день Джерри обнаружил в себе любовь — а может, даже страсть — к электричеству.
This book was very interesting. The first half of the book is an autobiography of Zappa's life, while the second half of the book consists of short chapters explaining his political and musical beliefs. I found the first part of the book more than the second part, but I really enjoyed a few chapters in the second half.
ფაქტობრივად ბლოგპოსტების კრებული უფროა, ვიდრე ავტობიოგრაფია. კარგი მსჯელობაა ბევრ საკითხზე - განსაკუთრებით რელიგიასა და ცენზურაზე.
Published four years before his death in 1993, this autobiography explores various facets of Zappa’s life including his childhood, career as one of the weirdest musicians in rock music, and censorship battles against Washington legislators.
Gifted with the ability to create a clever turn of phrase, Zappa utilizes his own brand of humor to tell his side of the story.I am a huge fan of Zappa’s music.
I did indeed get that, but I also got so much more.Towards the last third of the book, Zappa’s tone becomes more political and less introspective in terms of a comprehensive history of his life.
Regarding my thoughts on Zappa and his excellent ouerve, see my review of Kelly Fisher Lowe's book.This autobiography/polemic makes for a zestier read, although the last 50-90 pages of it descend rapidly through stages of acerbic wit from critical observation to rant to diatribe to screed. (You know there's trouble any time a writer begins moving from italics to boldface to  BOTH IN ALL CAPS WITH MULTIPLE EXCLAMATION POINTS!!! ) I'm guessing that Zappa lost interest in self-censoring (or the pro
Regarding my thoughts on Zappa and his excellent ouerve, see my review of Kelly Fisher Lowe's book.This autobiography/polemic makes for a zestier read, although the last 50-90 pages of it descend rapidly through stages of acerbic wit from critical observation to rant to diatribe to screed.
Frank Zappa managed to be as productive as he was by routinely staying up all hours of the night and sleeping during the day.
When I discovered the music of Frank Zappa & the Mothers of Invention way back in 1970, I wasn't ready for it.
Nonetheless, Zappa continued to crank out the records that I was interested in & a new release was always exciting..
until things like some of those mid-70s live albums came out.
Anyway, the more experimental & jazzy Zappa was, the more I liked him; the more "Titties & Beer" he got, the more I got bored.
Shortly before he died he started doing a few things that interested me again - about wch I was quite happy!
Yes he had a few laughs - many of them lovingly recounted for us in these pages - and yes he unapologetically pissed a lot of people off, but he was just annoyed that he couldn't get on with creating something of value for the future because so many resources were being squandered on appalling musical tat.
However, if you are a Zappa fan (and you would have to be talking about the music, not the man) then you really cannot miss this out.
In the real Frank Zappa Book, we get to hear from the man himself, about his career, music, politics, and variety of other subjects.
The first part, Zappa talks about his childhood, moving to California, forming a band and getting a record deal, while in the second, we get mostly get Zappa’s views on the politics, culture, and music that shaped the ‘80’s.As a fan of Frank Zappa, I enjoyed this book, which serves as part autobiography and part collection of personal musings.
Not so much a book as a "conflicted document," perhaps.
So this book has the curious characteristics of (a) often sounding like Zappa himself chit-chatting, (b) some actual biographical information (probably), (b1) some of that of actual interest, and (c) a paradigm shift from a biography (sort of) to a sort of stage for Zappa to air a grievance or two.
The book has moments of genuine entertainment, moments when you wonder if you're the bourgeoisie being épater-ed, and stretches where even genuine interest in Zappa as a musician may not serve to keep you quite awake.

No one can express Frank Zappa's view of the world better than himself, and he did so in such an interesting and hilarious way in this autobiography.
Whether you're a fanatic or this is your introduction, it's hard to not enjoy the life story of Frank Zappa, from his birth in 1940 and the adventures through his life up until 1989.
The fast paced, but detailed stories take you on a journey through the mind and body Frank as he goes through life with twists and turns and turmoils that will make you question his sanity, and maybe even yours!
Though the last 1/4 of the book is nothing but a long tirade against the PMRC (among other things), the preceding text more than makes up for it.
Though there's a picture of his family, he gives very little information about his parents and nothing (not even names) for his siblings.
However, you will get (in great detail): how he got into music, his love of Varese, how he met his wife, how he almost got in a fight with John Wayne, what he does for a living, slightly disturbing tour stories, his fight to get his symphonic work performed, and how he balances home life with creative life.
i like zappa, but im not one of those freak-fans that you find out there. i enjoyed this book, however, because it wasnt a zappa bio, but a collection of his thoughts on various topics. its a quick read, so anyone interested in music or the absurd can quickly check it out. the chapter on music was wonderful, and the one on the 1985 tipper gore pmrc bs is also quite interesting - reprinted are zappas officaily statements both to the us and MA govts during the attempts to limit freedom of speech.
An interesting book by and about Frank Zappa, telling some of the more interesting stories of his interesting life. I think his ideas on government (such as doing away with the income tax and generating government revenue from sales) were a little crazy. However, his music, his background, and his struggle against censorship are all in here and quite interesting. This book is a good and accessible read for anyone looking for a little more about this awesome man.
Not only was Zappa an undisputed musical genius, he was a brilliant father, husband, inventor, and political analyst. By today's standards he'd probably be considered a Libertarian, but I would have voted for him any day of the week. He was a valiant warrior against censorship and for separation of church and state who suffered no bullshit from anyone.
I wish this book went more into why studios took a risk on him, how he persuaded his band to switch from being a typical bar band into the strangest group of the 60s, and more of the history of his groups, but I can't complain too much. This is a fascinating, funny, and incredibly smart book from one of the most talented musicians of all time.
