https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262582.The_Psychoses_1955_1956
I read this after my friend had a major psychotic episode. It was fascinating, but I'm not a Lacanian so my grasp of the text is probably severely lacking. Unfortunately I can now identify a psychotic discourse when I see read it...so i guess it's kind of like learning knowledge that contains a curse. One should always keep these things in mind.
It's one thing to assert that Schreber's psychosis/paraphrenia evinces an etiology of the foreclosure of the Name-of-the-Father and altogether an other thing to witness Lacan work toward that notion over the course of months.
To match the specialization of the psychological topic of the psychoses, Lacan insists upon a coterminous specialized analysis of the signifier, which for him is an unsurprising move that yields surprising results.
I won't go into here because Lacan does, and does again.
In the last instance, why should one be determined to read The Psychoses if not training to be an analyst or to soothe a psychotic?
This seminar is still fairly early in Lacan's development, but a lot of important elements of his theories are elaborated.
Lacan concludes that not lacking enough of these is key factor in bringing on psychosis.
It's also noteworthy because of his in-depth focus on Schreber, perhaps the most famous case of insanity in history, and his book, Memoirs of My Nervous Illness.
Deleuze and Guattari make the same book a focus of Capitalism and Schizophrenia: Anti-Oedipus.
After reading all of this I feel as though I understand Schreber a lot better than I am comfortable with.
Lacan's works will be always the hardest most demanding reads ever.
All about Schreber and psychosis... It was great! Though provoking. Unconventional. Insightful.
A foreclosure of the name-of-the-father eh? Sounds pretty radical but I'm going to believe you because you are Jacques Lacan. I can only imagine trying to explain this one to the shitty mental health system of which I am a part. Helped to clarify the meaning and the function of the father though which is great.
Uma maneira surpreendente de trabalhar os conceitos Freudianos, abrindo novas perspectivas de abordagem da psicose. Seu conceito de Nome-do-Pai e de Foraclusão trouxeram possibilidades para a escuta e tratamento da psicose.
Lacan's reputation precedes him. I've read reviews of his books that say his books are purposefully obscure, difficult, and not worth the tedious effort. I am finding this reputation must come from short-attention-spanned professors who are barely literate.
