https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337623.Eye_of_the_Storm
I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought as I have listened to some of the other, "Dillon," stories, but to this point found none as good. I now have a clearer understanding of this character who originated in '92. Michael Page is superb as narrator. This story is not for the faint of heart. 10 of 10 stars
I suspect he becomes less bad in subsequent books, but here we’re talking about a guy that signs up to kill one or more leading figures in British Parliament in the late 80s/early 90s.It’s a fictionalised account of what led up to the mortar attack on Downing Street, and thus it features some real life political figures.
You can’t write words into the mouth of John Major, Prime Minister, and then say it’s a coincidence that he’s like John Major, actual Prime Minister?That was quite a big problem for me, but if we put that aside, it was a good thriller.
I can’t believe they didn’t check.Overall, it was an entertaining, if uncomfortable and unbelievable read.
In Eye of the Storm, British thriller writer Jack Higgins reimagines the story behind the mortar attack on 10 Downing Street that took place in 1991 shortly after John Major succeeded Margaret Thatcher as Prime Minister.
Instead, Higgins puts the blame on a former Provisional IRA hit man named Sean Dillon working as a mercenary for the KGB and its client, Saddam Hussein.Saddam Hussein gets the blameEye of the Storm reflects the historical record in many respects, including the details of the attack.
Following his first appearance in 1979 in The Judas Gate, the younger IRA gunman Sean Dillon was the central character in twenty-one subsequent novels.
Not bad. Took me a while to get into it, but once I did, I enjoyed it. Think it's the first one I,ve read by him. Onto the next one now, Thunder Point.
June 2018 Sean #1 but my 5th Jack Higgins. I think I appreciate Sean more as a person part of the Ferguson team than as an ruthless independent contract.
How the character Sean Dillon came to be.
Had to put this one down. 30% into this book and nothing much is happening.When I picked it back up it was a slow read up until 50% into the book.The last 50% moved much better.
(Higgins admits the plot was inspired by the real life IRA mortar attack on Downing Street during the war.)British intelligence, however, is on to Dillon.
Brigadier General Charles Ferguson, had of Section 4 in MI6, convinces another former IRA gunman – Martin Brosnan, a one time colleague of Dillon's – to join the hunt for the killer.Higgins grew up amid the Irish Troubles and he is at his best writing thrillers about former IRA members.
But unlike Devlin and Brosnan, I don't like Dillon.
Jack Higgins The story is very interesting.
The story is written in typical Jack Higgins format.
The book is one in a series featuring the villain Sean Dillion who becomes a very likeable character.
The name of the books in the Sean Dillion series are listed below.
It seems all the Jack Higgins novels follow a similar story line, and if you enjoy his writing style you will enjoy his novels.
I would not put this novel in the same category as The Eagle has Landed, but that being said it is a very interesting novel well worth reading.
Having read The Eagle Has landed, and having my expectations high, I was amazed to discover that old Jack only had one book in him! This and several others among his efforts show a recycling of the same character types, story lines: I can't figure why he hasn't been denounced loudly for it. I read a few and came to believe I could write a Jack Higgins novel myself using his templates. Unlike Jack, I won't be so cruel. Don't bother reading anything he wrote apart from "Eagle".
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
Won't read the rest in this seriesJust bad. Dillon is supposed to be an elite criminal. Yet, he makes mistake after mistake. Tells everyone his plans. Fails twice. Won't waste my time continuing this series.
masterpiece. first Dillon book i read. i dont have a copy though. theres little i wouldnt do to get a library edition or even a hardback of this or its renamed version: Midnight Man.
Very much your average spy thriller, I didn't find it particularly enthralling. Hoping the series improves as it goes along.
Eye of the Storm focuses on the real life mortar attack on 10 Downing Street on Feb, 7, 1991, mixing facts & real people with the fictional characters & what might have happened leading up to the attack.I do like some of the characters, killer for hire/master of disguise Sean Dillon, Liam Devlin (another shady fellow who first appeared in The Eagle Has Landed), as well as not-so-ex-gangsters Harry Flood and some of his henchmen.
I've come across Brosnan in other Higgins's books, and he's just as miserable.
The novel that introduced Sean Dillon as a character. The author paints a picture of him as a truly evil person who cares not who he kills or who he works for. Fast-paced with lots of action. The author portrays Sean's language and acting abilities, something which is not emphasized later in the series. His survival at the end strongly hints he will return as a character. A great opening to a character who will become something more.
It is written like a true thriller and is an easy and exciting read. But unlike " The Eagle has Landed", it lacks the edge that would have made it into a masterpiece. However, the main character - Sean Dillon though an assassin has been crafted into an endearing person.
Surprising. .Having not read the books in series, I was surprised to learn how Dillon's character has changed. He doesn't garner any symphony from the reader in this book and is indeed a cold blooded murderer
How many characters were killed? I lost count.
From the master Higgins, expect no less than quality.
action adventure, the main character shows his true colours within the first few pages.
Entertaining readTypical Higgins/Dillon with Dillon still the bad one. A good easy read that keeps one entertained. Well worth a look.
Clean, entertaining, not the same calibre as Clancy or Brown, but kept me reading.
RDC-M, #5-92, Read 1/93. A hired assassin who has worked for the KGB, the IRA and the PLO will now work for Saddam Hussein to show he can strike anywhere. 4*'s = Very Good.
Good book overall. Interesting that the main character is a bad guy. I will definitely read more in the series.
This book ranks up there with iris johansen books. There is not a time were I end of forgetting the lost ones.
It was good. But nothing to add here.
Interesting outlook on what might have happened.
Not a fan. I have liked Higgins work before but this was trite and predictable and more than a little bit sexist and old fashioned. Sorry.
Ok book. Easy read and a good twist at the end.
