https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12096.Rhinoceros_The_Chairs_The_Lesson
The play is called Rhinoceros, not Rhinoceros and Baby Hippo, so that's why the Hippo was kindly told to go away for a bit.
He did not like being told to go away, and is in the process of writing a musical about hippos, which he says will make more money than some stupid play where everyone is a Rhinoceros.
I read these plays a while ago.
I read Rhinoceros a bunch of times, and I don't remember much about it, except that it was about everyone being rhinoceroses.
Chairs I don't remember at all, but I know I read it.
Three dramatic works by the master of absurdity, of which 'Rhinoceros' is the most successful, although 'The Chairs' has its moments of humour, melancholia and nonsense.When faced with the threat of becoming a rhinoceros, do you cling to the real world or find it preposterous?
I had to perform a scene from the Rhinoceros with 3 classmates for a French class and it was certainly a great introduction to Ionesco's work. It gave us time to contemplate and embody the scene and I fell in love. I have great respect for absurd humour. It is difficult to pin down why it works so well when an author or performer pulls it off. It is a certain kind of intelligence that requires an understanding of the culture, the ability to read people and some another element that I like to think of as mysterious.
This was so enjoyable!!! There were a few confusing parts, but besides that it was extraordinary!^ THIS WAS FROM THE FIRST INITIAL READ IN DECEMBER, 2017.I love this even more after the second reading!!! ^ APRIL, 2018.
I really hate reading plays, but this was very funny and thought provoking. I'm excited to watch it, even if I didn't love reading it.
3.25/5
The Chairs (26/11/2018): 4/5
Très drôle.
Totalitarianism, nuclear war, ideology prompted Ionesco to pen these confusing black comedies. I recommend you review the history of Europe during and after the Second World War to contextually comprehend these plays.Of note, read Rhinoceros. This particular piece of dramatic literature is humorous, and is the most accesible of Ionesco's absurdist literature.
Read it in class taking parts. Great fun, good discussion. Stuck with me since high school. Can't say that about some of the other stuff we had to read.
Henüz sadece Rhinoceros'u okudum ama dersler ve diğer yoğunluklardan bir süre diğer iki oyunu okuma fırsatım olmayacağı için finished diye işaretliyorum. Puanım Rhinoceros'a özgüdür.
Similarly cliches point up the limitations of the characters, rather than being a central focus as in Soprano, which he calls “The Tragedy of Language” (175) in his essay on the play collected in Notes & Counter Notes.Ionesco in his writings has clearly spelled out that Rhinoceros shows how tolitarianism takes hold of a country (this is not a play about conformism, he declares), and it’s also not a comedy but a “terrible farce and fantastic fable” (French production) or in essence a tragedy (German production, 207).
Get in the bin, post-ww2 anti-logic absurdist existentialism.
The Lesson:Brilliant critique of totalitarianism in education!
Delightfully absurd jabs at society.
I got to be a rhino when we acted it out.
Originally published on my blog here, here, and here in October 2001.RhinocerosIonesco's most famous play may have a surreal idea at its centre (that people are turning into rhinoceroses), but he uses this to say something about human nature while at the same time creating a drama which is by turns funny, surprising, and fascinating.In the first act, the main characters, Berenger and his friend Jean, are terrorised by the first rhinoceroses, running around the streets of the town causing lots of damage.
The Lesson by Eugen IonescoSince we’re dealing with absurd theater, I guess I could write anything I want and sell it for a review…After all, this not so much about a “lesson” as about the absurdity to claim that we know so much- it crossed my mind, or maybe the ridiculousness of some people who take degrees, without knowing the basics:The student in the play knows nothing about four minus three, but has learned by heart two billion seven hundred million twenty multiplied by something similar.I will not venture into the meaning of all this, maybe the author wanted to mock the tendency to get into ever more extravagant realms of science, forgetting the basics.
Ionesco is definitely one of the kingpins of absurd theater, and I found Rhinoceros to actually be the most 'normal', metaphorically obvious of the 3 plays here.
Rhinoceros is existentialism through and through, where the main character is left isolated as the only human in a world that has turned into - you guessed it - rhinoceroses.
It is then left to an Orator to take over and when he does, readers (and viewers) are in for a shock.
The Lesson is another example of how Ionesco expertly escalates the absurdity and mania in his plays.

People turning into rhinoceroses, flawed logic, break down in communication, a trampled cat...
On the page it's thought provoking and intriguing, but I feel it's something you need to see on the stage (which I intend to do!) The sounds of the rhinos, for example, are absent when reading: one can imagine the trumpeting, drums and roars but this should definitely be experienced in the theatre.Aside from that, I really liked it.
I particularly liked how the rhinos are symbols for mass hysteria, Fascism and its dangers.
Don't follow the crowd and turn into a rhino, okay?
This review is purely of the play The Chairs.
I do at some point want to read the other plays within this collection, but I had to read The Chairs because I am studying it in drama at college.It is probably the weirdest play I have ever read.
I don't know, my rating will probably go up once I've studied it in class and understood it a bit more, but I just found it really weird, and I had to force myself to read it.
This is one of my four literature books I have to have read prior to the end of next month and since I've only completed one other than this so far (see: Pygmalion), I've been concerned that I was not going to have enough time.
So, as I am thus 338 pages into Jane Eyre (another literature book), I figured that Ionesco's three plays would be an easy enough read.
I do not give this book two stars, I give it at least two and a half.
Better than Pygmalion, but still not as enjoyable as Jane Eyre continues to be.
More absurd drama.
Rhinoceros is an effective metaphor on totalitarian regimes, The Chairs ponders how we can make what we leave behind be heard, how to leave an impression, and The Lesson is a more or less humorous take on the abuse of power.
Ionesco is self-referential, witty and more than amazing: His plays take on a large number of thought-provoking topics while never leaving out humour.
The Chairs is certainly the hardest play to grasp, leaving the reader behind with a speech by a mute and the phrase Angepain written on a blackboard.
Angelbread can mean anything and nothing – and is thus perfectly absurd.
Frankly, I haven't read the book but I saw the play and I loved it.
A bit on the weird side (ok, on the very weird side) but I love the absurdity of it.
One of my friends who came to see it with me said it was stupid, and I suddenly realized that I was one of the few people laughing at the theater.
It was funny how society was slowly turning into Rhinoceroses, leaving the protagonist the only "normal" person left, only to realize that if everyone was a rhinoceros, doesn't that make him the abnormal?
Tragic and funny, but I guess not for everyone.
The master of the Theatre of the absurd. If you want to delve into the genre, this collection containing three of Ionesco's best is the best place to begin. On the surface, absurdist behaviour, making sense of a universe without an order/structure - but underneath, we see the more difficult human drives which make us being explored - society and its values, age, sexuality, religion. As Jean says in Rhinoceros: 'There's an Ionesco play showing. I think you ought to see it'. Change that to read it.
"Rhinoceros" and "The Lesson" were both very interesting plays to read. However I found that "The Chairs" would be far more engaging performed than read as it would have a greater effect on the audience than trying to imagine it. Of course,all of the plays would be quite interesting seen and even if the chance arose, to perform.
The Rhino is the symbol of a sudden wave that attacks the society. It is like the book "La Peste" Of Albert Camus. They talk about the same thing.In Rhinoceros the only character who is rejected by the standard of the society doesn't convert to a Rhino....and that shows there is nothing as a reality of living...we just make it the way it is....
This captivated me when I first read it, which was sometime between high school and getting my own apartment, I think. I saw the play performed somewhere, too--where?Entirely different beast than the one in The Gods Must Be Crazy. Sort of a non-sequitur, but really, how many rhinoceros stories are there? Is there one by Kipling?
This is theatre of the absurd at its finest. Ionesco has such a gift with words and knows how to use them (and sometimes seemingly misuse them) to evoke rhythms, strange meanings, and some of the most humorous plot-lines, while still contributing to the ever-present absurdist questions: how can we make sense of a universe that gives us no answers?
