https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1755883.Anthony_Adverse
It is set literally all over the western world including the Spanish colonies of America during the time of Napolean.
It is the story of Anthony Adverse, a young man who was the product of an affair between a young French nobleman and the wife of a Spanish nobleman.
From there, Anthony travels the world, engaging in various mercantile trades, eventually living for a time in Africa where he becomes a wealthy slave trader.
However, it seems to me that Allen's purpose in this novel is not to glorify commerce and wealth as much as to be a sort of "Citizen Kane" story, in which a wealthy man yearns for the simplicity of his youth and ultimately returns to simplicity.
I was looking over the list of books over 800 pages and I remembered reading this book my sophomore year in high school.
I remember none of the book, even the summaries only get a hollow jangle of memory bells, but I'll claim the read.
My English teacher did not believe I had read the book I reported prior.
I said I'd read a book in a night.
I did the read that night and made the report the next day.
I'm now reading a book on memory and that got me to thinking what book do I (or you) remember best after ten years, twenty, thirty?
An historic novel of an orphaned boy who rides the wave of 18th-19th century commerce to success. This book was so well written it may be amoung the best stories I have ever read. It concludes on a spiritual note that huants me to this day.
can it be done?" :)About half way through now and it's not what I expected.
Still an enjoyable read, although, I had to smile that the previous owner of this particular copy marked page 612 in black ink as "half way" as though one needed encouragement.
Sounds rather cliché, but somehow it really wasn't.I won't be keeping it on my shelf, because, being realistic, I'll never REread a book over 1200 pages, and I wouldn't recommend it for everyone, but it was good.
An engaging adventure story. Read it many years ago.
_Anthony Adverse_ Volumes I, II, III, (first published in 1933) (1933 bestseller) (1,224-pages)by Hervey AllenAdded 9/26/119/26/11 - I had always heard of this book, but never knew much about it.
When Don Luis and his duplicitous new spouse (Gale Sondergaard) conspire against Anthony, securing his birthright proves no easy task.
Sondergaard's performance earned the first Best Supporting Actress Oscar ever awarded.Cast: Cast: Fredric March, Olivia de Havilland, Donald Woods, Anita Louise, Edmund Gwenn, Claude Rains, Gale SondergaardThis movie is: RomanticThe following link to the Kindle edition gives a detailed summary of the story:http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66...Wiki pages:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hervey_A...
Clocking in at around 1100 pages, Anthony Adverse is not an easy journey.
Mostly because the author writes with a careful precision and you want (and need) to read every, single, word.
There is no skimming with this book.Aside: I am a champion skimmer.
I never realized how much until I read a book that simply didn't allow for skimming.
You feel like you literally live every day of his life.
And Anthony Adverse definitely has an interesting life.
Napoleon is in the book, Anthony travels the world, he loses, he wins, he falls in and out of love, he experiences everything.
Much like real life is.
Surprisingly, this is a masterpiece.
I say surprisingly, because I had heard it referred to jokingly on the few occasions that it was mentioned in my presence.
It is a very big book, and the author writes in such a way that one must not skim.
So reading 1100 pages without skimming is a daunting task for those of us (most) that have attention spans of cocker spaniel puppies.
It's kind of like Hugo; if you can read the first 20 pages the right way and stick that far, you're hooked.
But read it.
I have read this book as a young woman in the late forties or early fifties.
Setting of book is England, Farnce and the Americas.
Time frame: Perhaps in fifteenth or early sixteenth century.
Story centers about an orphan child who had been left at a Convent.
In his adult years the story included his many wanderings and dangers as he searched for his roods.
This took him throughout Europe, Africa and America.
I originally read this book when in my twenties.
I recently reread it as a very mature adult just to see if I liked it as well as I remembered.
The most popular book of 1933 (according to someone).
In scope this reminds me of 'The Count of Monte Cristo'.
It had some slow moments mid book, but the overall story and reach was pretty great.
It took me forever to read this 1224 page tome because I had to keep finding new copies through the interlibrary loans department -- interlibrary loans are not be extended.
Even so, I'm glad to have read it in it's entirety and the ordeal and length of time it took to read satisfies the story's perseverance and scope for some reason.
This book so impressed me in my early 20s that I was consumed with it for several weeks, really. The sweep of time (generations, decades) and global scope (continents) impressed the heck out of me. This historical adventure including the Spanish colonies of America during the time of Napoleon struck me as wildly exotic. I was so awed that I wrote - by in hand in pen in a spiral notebook - my own epic twin-based novel called "Castor and Pollux" and completely blew past the requirements in my community college creative writing course.
A forgotten best-seller from the thirties which is also a wonderful epic. Deserves to be rediscovered. Another book that you can't put down and have to read all night long. If I'm correct, it was the biggest hit of its time until Gone With The Wind arrived and dethroned it from the top of the best-seller lit. It's massive in every way, yet it reads very easily without being badly written at all. Allen certainly possesses a real sense of storytelling.
I read this gigantic book many years ago while stuck in bed for two weeks. Maybe that's why it made such a lasting impression on me. I truly loved this book. Anthony makes and loses several fortunes and families around the globe until finally reaching the stone in the heart of the tree. You can see it has hugely melodramatic, or you can think about what's really important in life.
A very good bookA very good bookI enjoyed this book very much, except for the fact that it was a little hard to follow, because of the archaiclanguage. I had to.pay very close attention and had to guess sometimes as to what they were saying.
A simply delightful and spiritual journey of life!
I'm planning to reread this as I read in high school many years ago like a number of the other people wrote in the reviews it's big so I know I'll have to prepare myself and set time aside.
This might deserve five stars, but I am discounting for how long ago I read it. I loved it. It is a big book: big story, big messages -- but lots of action. I may have to reread it so I can raise the rating. I just learned there is a movie and I don't know how I could have missed it since it seems to have Frederic March in it. Must rent immediately. Oh, maybe that's off topic!
This is a fun read - especially for those who enjoy historical fiction. It has swashbuckling action, interesting characters, and provides an interesting perspective on the end of the 1700s / beginning 1800s. As I was reading this I kept thinking about how my grandparents may have read it when they were my age.
I checked out this book out because it was scheduled to be removed from the library shelves because it had not been checked out for a long time. I saved it and read it all. It seemed to have a lot of twists and turns in the plot and many novels I subsequently read used similar plots. I liked this book and like really long books.
This is one of my favorite adventure books. It starts in Italy, ranges through France and Spain, goes to the West Indies, then Africa, Mexico, and North America. The book covers the entire life-time of a foundling orphan with many adventures, escapes from his enemies, and romances.
The first and second volumes are totally engrossing. I thought the third part degenerated into a maudin religious mysticism.. Still an epic story.
