https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37731.Just_as_Long_as_We_re_Together
It's the one that has Stephanie, Rachel and Alison in someone's room (Rachel's?) and they are laughing and someone's holding up one of the purple t-shirt that say "FRIENDS" in yellow letters.
I think this was my favorite Judy Blume novel.
Stephanie and Rachel had been best friends since just about forever.
Alison moves into the picture.
Feelings get hurt, friendships become affected.Now that I think about it, I really felt sorry for Rachel.
I could relate to her feelings of exclusion from Steph and Alison.I enjoyed this book so much.
I need to reread some Judy Blume.
It was my first Judy Blume novel, and it captured perfectly the world of preteen girls that I was in the midst of experiencing.
I never really minded it much though, other than that I wanted the book to keep going beyond the last page.All I can say is that to this day I still remember Stephanie's poster when I see a Benjamin Moore paint can, I still recall Rachel's book collection when I come across Gone with the Wind, I can still tell you that Stephanie's middle name is her mother's maiden name, I think of Jeremy Dragon each time I see or read the word "chartreuse," and I recall perfectly all the excitement of the girls' first date experiences at the Ground Hog Day dance.
Judy Blume has done a terrific job accurately portraying a preteen experiencing family break up.
This was my first 'obsession' book. I got it for my 11th birthday and read it about 4 times in the first 2 months I had it. To this day, 20 years later, I still remember that it's Stephanie's birthday on Feb 2. Ground Hog day. As today is Ground Hog day, I wish you a very happy Birthday Stephanie. And to Judy Blume, a thank you for writing characters that seem as real to me now, as they did 20 years ago.

This is probably close to my millionth re-read of Judy Blumes' book since childhood, but I was feeling nostalgic. It still holds up. I felt as if I was 12 again, which is something you need every now and again.
I read this book in 5th grade (1994ish?). I will always remember it as the book that made me realize my dad wasn't really on a very long business trip! :D Slightly traumatic at the time, but it makes me laugh now!
This was my favorite/most-read Judy Blume book, as a youth.
Recently re-read for a book club and it was like walking through a house I used to live in.
There are so many things I learned from this book, so many things I tried to emulate...so many things I accidentally emulated, without knowing that I ever would.
Notable on re-read:(a) The way the situation with Stephanie's parents is handled.
(b) There's an effortlessness to the way Judy Blume writes about friendship, and the evolution of friendship.
Nothing is hamfisted, it's all just the way it is.
This book defined me.
This was a childhood favorite growing up and I guess I'm getting real nostalgic this Christmas and I reread it.
I'm being conservative when I say I've read it three times.I really believe that all middle-schoolers should be shipped to a deserted island until high school.
Stephanie was insufferable and Rachel got on my damn nerves.
The writing was decent and I liked that the story had no real plot; it just followed the girls around in their everyday life.
Still, I remember LOVING this book as a kid and have really nothing bad to say about it since it was such a favorite.
When I was in 5th grade, the deal was if you got 100% on the spelling test on Monday, you didn't have to take it on Friday.
When I was done, a male friend of mine in the class found out and put it on the markerboard tray during recess and drew arrows point to it and things like "DIANA READ THIS!!!!!" "GROSS!!" "EWWWWWWWW!" He got in trouble.
The boy with the chartreuse dragon jacket, the girl eating bananas to gain weight, the guy with the translucent eyelashes whose mom was the doctor, getting your first period at the school dance...it's all from the same book!
I had read this book back in elementary school and hadn't liked it much then.
I love books written in the 80s because they bring me back to my youth in a way that few other things do.
Stephanie is an average girl making her way through junior high, having two best friends instead of one and the shock of her parents' trial separation.
Her oldest friend Rachel is gifted and her new friend Alison is an adopted Vietnamese girl with a tv star mom.
It sounds unlikely, but these girls come across as very real and very likeable.
I liked this book much more this time around.
Never have I been taken back to the pain and torture of 7th grade until now, reading this.
I was just a little too old to read this when it was first published in 1987, but the Guess?
jeans, the school dances, the fear of nuclear war (thanks to The Day After) rosebud comforter with matching lampshades and jazzercise?
Rachel Robinson - I'm sure it's not easy being perfect, but like Stephanie said during the great fight before the Groundhog's Day Dance, it's not easy being friends with someone who always thinks they are right, even when they are not.
The characters to in this to me did not act like 7th graders AT ALL. It may be that they were just a group of immature girls, or that the author does not exactly understand how middle schoolers are. To me, these characters were equivalent to 4th graders.  Of course, I took this book lightly because it is just suppose to be a fun read considering it’s a middle-grade book, but compared to other Judy Blume books, this was 2nd to last on my list of favorites.
Judy Blume really is just so great. This tackles a lot of transition - fighting with your best friend, puberty, and your parents having a trial separation/thinking about divorce. It's a lot to handle when you're young and Blume knows all those feelings.
Dokaz da prijateljstvo moze da prezivi sva zivotna iznenađenja.
However the book is from Stephanie's point of view and she doesn't realize there is a problem until Rachel and she have a fight on page 241.
Yes, I know SE Hinton cited this book but, that took place in the South and was written published in 1967 and Hinton was only a teenager when she wrote it.Because the main issue doesn't come into play until page 120 the book reads more like a episodic younger reader like Busybody Nora than an older novel.The December play is called Mary and Joseph and yet is suppose to be about a Jewish and Christian couple celebrating Chanukkah and Christmas.
She talked about having good friends and how sometimes they come and go, and she talked about finding your best friend.
She also talked about how it is a STRUGGLE being a part of a trio of friends.
I have had my fair share of trios and it can definitely be tough to navigate.
Judy just captures these kids' minds and her characters are so relatable.
I think that's why her books resonate so well with kids.I loved seeing Rachel, Allison, and Steph's friendship bloom.
I also loved the way Steph and her brother, Bruce, were there for each other no matter what.
Ένα αρκετά όμορφο και ευχάριστο βιβλίο που μιλάει για τη φιλία και την πρώτη αγάπη.Απευθύνεται κυρίως στο νεανικό κοινό καθώς είναι αρκετά απλοϊκά γραμμένο ωστόσο οι ηλικίες 10-12 σίγουρα θα το απολαύσουν!
I laughed the whole way through! It was amazing, spectacular and heartwarming
Still a classic, after all these years. <3
I was obsessed with this book. I read it over and over and over. It was again one of those books I discovered at the perfect age, and I fell in love.
I am sure I read this many, many years ago, when it was a lot newer. Surprisingly, it hasn't aged all that badly. It reminds me a lot of teaching middle school - all of the painful friend/not friend, lonely, teasing/showing romantic interest, young teen issues.
One of my absolute faves growing up. Would love to read it again, but unfortunately, my middle-school copy has been lost to the winds. Will see if I can track it down.
This was a good book. It reminded me of those horrible years I was in middle school.
Just one of those inexplicable favorites.
I read this book over and over again when I was a kid. It’s typical for me to revisit things from my childhood and empathize with the adults (esp in shows like Gilmore Girls), but this book is different. Stephanie is such a smart, authentic voice whose side I am on unconditionally.
Re-read a childhood favorite because I found it on a bookshelf while visiting my parents this past weekend.
Throw in a supposed talking dog, an exercise video involving “gluts” and a ninth grader nicknamed Jeremy Dragon, and that is basically the complete picture of what I remember about this book from childhood.Just As Long As We’re Together is the story of Stephanie Hirsch, a seventh grader, who has two best friends.
It was like checking back in with an old friend after twenty years and finding she hasn’t changed a bit.Just As Long As We’re Together is one of the tamer Blume novels, and I think it’s appropriate for girls as young as eight or nine.
They didnt know if they could all be friends at once but they talked and realized that they could.
Stephanie's father was away for work and for thanksgiving.
On Thanksgiving day Stephanie realized that her father and mother were sperating for a while.
Stephanie's father thought her mother told her but she didn't so Stephanie found out and got really upset.
She didn't go out of the house for a couple of days and she didnt talk to neither one of her parents for a couple of days.
Alison got the flu and she wasnt in school for a whole week.
Typical Judy Blume--you know, the protagonist got her first period and her parents were (probably) getting divorced.
I enjoyed the references to Jane Fonda and Crazy Eddie but because I am getting old.
It was the first Judy Blume I read that was written in my time ('87) and I enjoyed today's reread.
I just had a hard time feeling sympathetic toward Stephanie when the kids were calling her "El Chunko." I mean she would eat a sandwich, an apple, a bag of Fritos, and two donuts for lunch.
Not only was this gluttonous but how long was her lunch period?
Oh to be a preteen again.
What a wonderful stage in life.
I really enjoyed this book.
It brought back so many memories.
First crush, new friends, fights with friends, first period (wish I could forget that one), and middle school.
I like Stephanie, however she was a bit annoying.
I loved how they all crushed on Jeremy "Dragon" a boy so much out of their league.
I think had Stephanie relied on her friends and trusted them with the info that her parents were getting a divorce she would've handled the situation a bit better.
