https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30078567-the-collapsing-empire
As delightful and easy to read as Scalzi at his best (Redshirts, Old Man's War), with characters who are going to stay with you whenever you have to put the book down ...
which you aren't going to want to do.I won't discuss plot, at all, but I will say this much: like all great SF, and like the SF that has become accepted as classic, The Collapsing Empire works as a wonderful SF tale ...
but it also has important allegory, metaphor, and commentary on some things that are going on right now, for readers who are open to that sort of thing.
A big thanks to Netgalley for this ARC!This novel marks a very strong return to Space Opera for Scalzi and I'll admit that I felt slightly trepidatious about it, after all, these tomes usually require a fairly substantial investment of time and energy, especially when contemplating an extensive book deal for him running to 2027!
(Congrats, by the way!)However, I should just go ahead and trust that my favorite authors, Scalzi included, can pull off these kinds of really ambitious undertakings.
Like I said, Scalzi is a man with serious writing chops.
Very much the first book in a series, The Collapsing Empire resolves the main plot expertly while simultaneously paving the way for a lot more stories that will undoubtedly come.
Several powerful houses competing for power and resources, an Emperox (Emperor) that controls a planet called Hub, which resides at the epicenter of The Flow, a trade network of one-directional interstellar wormholes that humanity found a thousand years ago, religion and politics intertwined, etc.
Still, I know that Scalzi can write more elegant prose, and it would drastically improve his novels if he did.
This is a wildly fun space opera.
Witty, irreverent, even a little sexy.
Lots and lots of world building and the society here, the Interdependency is full of intrigue.
Incredible women characters which is very refreshing.
I was turning the page so so fast and sad when the book ended.
One flaw is that there are some really annoying, kind of lazy ways in which the reader is taught about this world.
Like, straight up, in one scene a guy is explaining the universe to kids on a field trip.
inconsistent, funny but like inside jokes.
And that's fine, mostly.Great book, though.
UPDATE 12/13/18:Re-read in preparation for book two.
Listened to Wil Wheaton’s audiobook narration this time, which was really great.
Loved the book just as much the second time and will probably listen to the next one as well.
4.25ish stars.'Accessible' is a word I've read used to describe Scalzi's fiction a lot, and it's true.
It's very much a first-book-in-a-series, but a lot happens and it's very readable; the pace never drags too much even during worldbuilding exposition and frameworking.
It's done its job of getting me to commit to at least the next book in the series.Posted in Mr. Philip's Library
It’s also a nice bit of old fashioned sci-fi fun – heroes do heroic things and villains do villainous things, the story has nice momentum and the world-building is fun.Trying to figure out why I felt unsatisfied by the book is a little harder to explain, especially when I basically had a good time reading it.
When he decided to end The Collapsing Empire the way he did, he was leaning on the good will he has engendered with readers over the years, and I don’t think that’s something any writer should fall back on at any point in their career.
If you like political machinations, space, Scalzi's wit, and characters who are more asshole than charming, you'll enjoy this. It took me a little bit to get used to the general lack of fucks all of the characters give (and the amount of fucks the characters say), but I found myself rooting for many of them by the end and I'm interested to see how the rest of this series will go.
Like a gas station marooned in the desert when the interstate is built, that planet and it’s teeming millions of fat and happy colonists are going to be cut off and unable to reconnect with the rest of humanity.So Scalzi, brilliant evil mastermind that he is, has set up his Interdependency series.
A damn fine story ensues that’s what!Fun story that it is (sometimes outrageously) Scalzi uses the themes inherent in the setting to explore allegorically scarcity policy, conservation and the needs we all have for connection.*** COOL CHARACTER ALERT!
The Collapsing Empire marks his strong return to space opera with a fresh start in this series opener, introducing readers to a new universe, new characters, and a whole new set of rules.
For almost as long as the space opera genre has existed, science fiction authors have been coming up with creative and practical ways for their characters to travel the vast distances between stars.
Already, parts of The Flow are starting to destabilize, and Flow physicists are estimating that a complete collapse will happen within ten years, which would inevitably lead to the destruction of the entire Interdependency.True to form, Scalzi knows how exactly how to hook the reader.
The entire social order is interdependent and was set up that way as a means to facilitate unity and cooperation as allowed by The Flow.As you can see in the book blurb, and has you quickly discover in the book, The Flow is shifting threatening not just the existence of the Interdependency but the survival of humanity as a species.
The characters were very much in the Scalzi mold of snarky, irreverent, but nuanced in their own way, pursuing actions that fit their own goals instead of merely servicing the story.I look forward to seeing how they will develop and interact in subsequent books.
Scalzi delivers yet again!The Collapsing Empire by John Scalzi is part of a new sequence (I can’t find details on how many books it will comprise of but I hope it’s lots!), which is due for release on 23 March.
Most impressive is Scalzi’s ability to deliver a lot of action, background, exposition and character through dialogue.
CharactersEvery book should focus on the characters within it.
I would have liked the book to have been a bit longer and for the characters to reflect more.
The latest one was about a worldwide plague where the lantern-jawed hero is a journalist trying to uncover governmental secrecy while trying to decide whether to go to his mistress - young, beautiful, free loving and rich - or whether to return to his ex-wife - a dour and buttoned-up biologist - who has an in on a secret survival bunker.
(He's a selfish and cold-hearted bastard, so my bet is on him going with the ex-wife and claiming to have loved only her all along.) “The Collapsing Empire” belongs to this book category.
🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟Re-read on October 2017 amidst the chaos and craziness of what is known as "real life" Even better the second time around! Definitely one of the best reads of this year ****************************************What an insanely entertaining and oddly satisfying book! This was my first book by this author, according to a number of his ardent fans this is not one of his best works. If this is an example of not his best, I can' t wait to read the supposed better ones :)Simply loved
Definitely one of the best reads of this year ****************************************What an insanely entertaining and oddly satisfying book!
If this is an example of not his best, I can' t wait to read the supposed better ones :)Simply loved the pace of writing.
The political intrigue, the shift of power from one moment to the other, the twists and manoeuvres were presented in such an easygoing and offhand manner, that it was exactly why I had such a good time while reading this book.I'l definitely be looking out for its sequel which won't be out before next year (although, plenty of Scalzi back logs to fill my time in the meanwhile....)
5/10I've never read any John Scalzi before and I saw this on NetGalley and decided it would be a good entry into his work (free) and a good indication on whether to read some of his other stuff like Old Man's War.As you might be able to tell from the rating, I didn't overly like this book.
The plot strands were a bit thin, the characters didn't jump off the page and felt a bit formulaic.
I even emailed NetGalley about it and they passed on my information but I've finished the book and heard nothing further.
This was a lot of fun. Scalzi is really becoming one of my favorite writers, as his work is so readable yet so full of ideas. His science is plausible and he tells it in a way that an ordinary person can understand. He takes serious situations and balances them with snarky dialogue and humor. I wouldn't call his work comedy, but there is enough humor in it to keep it upbeat most of the time.This is the beginning of a new series, and this first book shows such great promise. I'm definitely looking forward to the next one!
The three people mentioned are the newest emperox (same title for either male or female) of the Interdependency, Cardenia Wu-Patrick/Grayland II, who learns not only of the problem, but the surprising roots of the Empire, and whose ruler name is not only an example but a warning - and she almost(view spoiler)[ suffers the same fate as the previous carrier of the name (hide spoiler)].
And poor Naffa, such a good friend, yet she has to (view spoiler)[die like she does; I feel she would've been great help later on (hide spoiler)] :(This story is actually rather funny sometimes, especially when the cursing happens.
Its a novel about the political machinations of the super rich, their schemes and the downfall of their Empire.It follows a group of planets which have been colonised by humans who are united under the rule of the Emperox of the Interdependency.
I get that this was probably intentional given the story but I did miss Scalzi's signature wit and the light tone he can strike even in tense situations.On the plus side back room scheming, I love a few back room deals and a world of political bargaining, completely my thing so I enjoyed that aspect.
The merchant Lady Kiva has come to the only habitable planet in the Interdependency only to find it in the middle of a rebellion against the reigning Duke and the machinations of another merchant house.
On the same planet the son of a brilliant Flow physicist Marce needs to get to the Imperial Hub urgently to inform the Emperox that the Flow is about to collapse.
And at the Imperial Hub, the current Emperox is dying and about to leave the Interdependency in the hands of his ill-prepared second child Cardenia.
Kiva comes across as foul-mouthed and snarky.
Marce comes across as smart and snarky.
To be perfectly clear about this extended short story: It's a trap luring you into reading a series which doesn't exist, yet.
I said it is an extended short story, not a novel.
For one, it is 336 pages, which is short for a novel but too long for a novella in the usual meaning.
Fuck you, Scalzi, you should have written one standalone novel, not this teaser of an extended short story.Sorry about swearing in this review, I've still got a sugar shock.It is more like 2.5 stars.
I read about the first quarter of this book before I was sure this just wasn't going to be for me.
I've read two other books by Scalzi and although I liked the first in the old man's War series, I really didn't care too much about Lock In. I feel like the tone in this book is more in the style of Lock In, and yet it's a really politically-heavy book and focuses a lot on warring between wealthy families and scheming to undermine.
I really don't feel like Scalzi doing that sort of politically-heavy story works for me personally, and I could tell from the start it just wasn't my kind of read.
I Tok je došao do faze kad su se ulazi i izlazi počeli zatvarati - ajme frke - "međuovisnost" sjetite se.A baš je i prdnuo stari Car te ostavio nevoljnu ćeru u zamjenu.Tu uleće jedan svježi i raspoloženi Scalzi koji u svom najboljem crnom, ciničnom, humorističnom stilu razvija priču sa nekoliko pamtljivih i vrckavih likova.Nema aliena kojima su ljudi posebna poslastica no nije mi bilo ni tren dosadno, a 80% vremena sam se veselo kesio njegovim rečeničnim konstrukcijama.Ne mogu dati 5 jer bih oštetio Old Man's War no možda je i potonja za 6?Uglavno vrlo zabavno, teško se ostavlja i prekratko traje.
I tried repeatedly to read and finish this book, but finally gave up at 25 percent (DNF).
I loved "Redshirts" and "Lock In", but this book right here is all the worst bits of "The Android's Dream" and I refuse to read that book ever again.I think the biggest issue of why I couldn't get into this book is that I felt like I just got dropped right in the middle of an interesting story.
I just am not in the mood for a book set up this way like this.I finally asked another friend if they were feeling this book at all and she apparently moved on weeks ago and just gave her book to someone else.
I'm not a huge science fiction fan so what I really need in a science fiction book is an engaging story that is well written, keeps me turning the pages and has great characters.
If Scalzi's writing is not your thing then this book will probably not do it for you.The science is good but I would not call this a hard science fiction book.Can't wait for him to continue the story in (hopefully) many more books.So...if you like Scalzi's writing, if you like great characters, if you like an intelligent plot, if you like a book that makes you want to keep turning the pages and keeps you up late at night, if you like all these things then this book is for you and it has my highest possible recommendation.
Scalzi being one of my favourite scifi authors, I couldn't resist getting this new novel of his.From the prologue, the narration was full of humour and snark, something the author does very well.
Mix to that interesting characters - from Cardenia, the new reluctant Emperor of this Interdependency society, Marce, scientist on a mission, to the the foul-mouthed but oddly likeable Kiva - and action scenes, and you have a pretty entertaining read.
The setting itself is intriguing with a society spanning several star systems and connected by The Flow, only means of travelling in this universe where TFL doesn’t exist.
This novel is really ‘just’ an introduction to all the main players.
Mostly talk, talk, talk, not much plot or character development, interchangeable characters, little world building, a lot of swearing instead of decent dialogue.30% into the book things finally started to get more interesting and by the halfway point I was hooked and wanted to find out everything.
Still too much pointless swearing, but at least the plot was evolving.In the end I liked this well enough and I am pretty certain that I will have a go at the sequel, whenever it comes out.
The over-the-top swearing of the Lagos family members made me think of overexcited teenagers.I might expand on this pretty measly review at some point.
I’m trying to improve my English, thanks)The Collapsing Empire reminds me the entertaining readings of Poul Anderson’s "The Polesotechnic League".
Thus, Scalzi joints the trend about dynastic intrigues seen -for example- in the astonishing “Luna” by Ian McDonald.As a space opera the book is a good reading.
About the ending, as a criticism, I think it is a bit silly, but considering we are talking about an space opera perhaps this is not important...Finally, this is a list about books the author considers that have influenced his novel (I think he must add the Ian McDonald’s books I mentioned before):http://www.tor.com/2017/03/28/somethi...#
Can't say much about this yet BUT DON'T WORRY I WILL, I WILL HAVE SOME WORDS.UPDATE: I finally wrote some words about this novel! I am also writing even more soon because I suspect this is the space novel I yell about for the entirety of 2017.UPDATE 2: I READ THIS AGAIN AND IT'S STILL GR8, MY PALS. Maybe you should give it a try.
I enjoyed reading The Collapsing Empire so very much, I have no words.
I loved the good guys, booed the bad guys and even found myself cheering for a crude, foul-mouthed character.And Caldinia.
I loved the way she shut shit down when she had her first meeting after becoming Emperorox.
(hide spoiler)]Scalzi’s dialogue is snappy without feeling forced – which made The Collapsing Empire a definite page turner.
I would LOVE to see this one as a movie...I’m finding it difficult to write this review as I’m still feeling the after-reading high.
And I’m telling mom to read this one.As if you weren’t sure: Recommended!
This is one of Scalzi’s rollicking fables and I enjoyed the fast pace and imaginative scenarios.What we have is a galaxy populated only by humans (so far as this story is concerned) and they are organized into trading guilds.The guilds are basically families and they are as rapacious as Mafia chieftains.
It’s also a nice bit of old fashioned sci-fi fun – heroes do heroic things and villains do villainous things, the story has nice momentum and the world-building is fun.” But he felt that Scalzi spent too much time world-building.
The main POVs are the newly crowned Empress of the Interdependency, Cardenia, Lady Kiva of the trade house of Lagos, and Marce, Lord of Claremont, a scientist.
She inherits the throne when, unknown to the majority, the space pathways ("The Flow") that connect her Empire are failing, potentially cutting off planets and space habitats from each other, and dooming the human race.
He comes under the eye of the Duke's "advisor" Lord Ghreni Nohamapetan, of the House of Nohamapetan who figures in prominently in the story, as well.
The beginning chapters with Empress Cardenia were a little slow, although necessary to lay the foundation for the story.
