https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22698569-the-fate-of-the-tearling
4.5
I'll update my review closer to the release date with more about the story, but for now I'll just say the first 3/4 of the book is SO good.
I was never very big on the whole "doorway through time" plot that started in the second book, but I was still going with everything that came up...UNTIL THAT ENDING.
Ok, I think a lot of people will like the ending, but it was NOT for me.
But on the other hand it kind of fit the theme that the books had going and I totally admire that the author tried to do something like that.Aside from the ending, this book was a really satisfying conclusion overall.
For those of you who are like me (and by that, I mean you occasionally read the last page first), or for those of you who have already read this and want to discuss it...*rubs hands together*(view spoiler)[I usually hate it when an author kills off the main character.
And, like I said, by the halfway point I was fairly certain that Kelsea was going to have to go back in time and try to fix things from that end.
14 Dec. '16 blog | goodreadsThis book propped up the series for me. What I would otherwise consider an okay, but could've been better two-star debut trilogy is now a solid three stars.The questions I addressed in my review of the previous two books, particularly concerning the powerful necklace: where it came from, what exactly were its powers, and why it only worked for Kelsea, where thankfully answered by the end of this book. The answers, although fairly exciting and contributive to the worl
What I would otherwise consider an okay, but could've been better two-star debut trilogy is now a solid three stars.The questions I addressed in my review of the previous two books, particularly concerning the powerful necklace: where it came from, what exactly were its powers, and why it only worked for Kelsea, where thankfully answered by the end of this book.
In the previous book, Lily's story was far more intriguing than Kelsea's - and here, Katie's was also far more engrossing.This, I think, is due to what I've explained in my first critique above.
For me, I didn't like the ending at all!I don't even know what to say!
I mean, I loved the first two books and there were parts of this book I REALLY loved.
Like what went on with the Red Queen, but there wasn't much of Pen or Fetch in it.
We do go back in time when Kelsea has her visions and see how it all started.
That part was kind of cool.
I'm just not happy with the ending, that's all I got.
I'm just not happy but I guess we can't win them all.
The last 20% has ruined it for me personally.Reason for such low score:-ENDING WAS A COP OUT-SO MANY QUESTIONS LEFT OPEN-IT ALL GOT WAY TO COMPLICATED IN SUCH A SHORT SPACE OF TIME.-This last book was disjointed.i could literally cry.I LOVED BOOK ONE AND TWO.
Why do i feel like this world got to complicated for the author and she coped out with an ending.Don't get me wrong, it makes sense.
Its her book not mine and she knows this story better then me....but personally, this ending is my worst nightmare.
ALSO.WHY HAVE THERE BEEN SO MANY QUESTIONS LEFT OPEN.
1.) The Queen of the Tearling ★★★2.) The Invasion of the Tearling ★★★  “This, I think, is the crux of evil in this world, Majesty: those who feel entitled to anything they want, anything they can grab.”  I honestly feel like I don't know how I feel about this series. There is so much good in this series, and such a strong sense of feminism, which brings up a lot of important and not commonly discussed topics: the need for birth control and women to be able to protect themselves, rape culture, ch
I actually think it will be a polarizing love it or hate it ending, but my gut feeling tells me most people will dislike it.
I also know the ending made me feel very uncomfortable for Kelsea, and I hate that I'm left with only being able to hope for her well being in her new and very uncertain future.
My only complaint about his character destruction is that I feel like in the previous books, we are to believe he will play a pivotal role in the ending, since he is such a mysterious man with all these secrets, but it ended up just being a flop.The Red Queen - I loved her relationship with Kelsea in this book.
This has been one of my all-time favorite series and I think the first two books are masterpieces, but this one just stumbled and fell on the ending.
It could have ended any other way and I think I would have been happy, but this ending is one of my ultimate pet peeves in terms of fictional worlds.
The rest of this book stands up with the series.
And it was seriously terrifying a few times.
If not for the ending this would have been a nearly perfect series.
Oh, the ending.
Oh, the ending.
I've been furiously angry about the ending of books plenty of times before, but at least they were endings to the same story I started reading.
This is Johansen either not knowing or not caring about figuring out how to get her story to the conclusion that was promised, so instead she used time travel to push a big old reset button.
Characters weren't acting like themselves, entire plot points were just dropped, never to be heard from again and Kelsea was regulated to a supporting player in her own story...
Ha!I've been enthusiastically recommending this series to everyone I know for years, but now I'm telling them to not even bother.
Annnnnnnnd Erika Johansen did not disappoint and wove a beautiful 3rd book and ending to this series.
There were so many small details in this book that all come together in the end, every word she wrote had a purpose to the story.
There was so much going on in the ending there that the characters had no time to really spend thinking about her death but I still felt like perhaps we could have had a bit more on that.I have read critiques on this series, especially about how Kelsea views vanity and her judgemental tendencies.
But practically everything else that happened in the tale supported the conceit and all the other characters drew me in, and in the second book all those concerns went away as I was drawn into the visions of the past within the second novel so I just didn't care about anything else.
Huh?Trust me, you'll know it when you see it.But on reflection, and I had to keep recalling all the events leading up to this last event, I have to admit that while it's strange and I recall much worse examples of this kind of event, Johansen actually pulls it off with aplomb.
I found Katie interesting and was happy to know more about the Tearling’s origins.There was so much in the book about past mistakes, lessons to learn, how humans maybe aren’t meant to live equals, how the better intentions can lead to disastrous consequences how…it was just too much, too dense!I had sometimes to read sentences and passages twice and yet I did not understand everything.
To sum it up: read the first two books, stay true to your characters, to your story and don’t become so elated as to write something your readers will never recognize and understand.And I don’t take gloves to write this review because I just loved your story so much I just feel betrayed.
well, that was not what i expected. but i loved it nonetheless.more to come later, maybe?DEAR WORLD:I NEED THIS.WHY DON'T I HAVE IT YET.THE WORLD IS UNFAIR.ALLLLLL THE GRABBYHANDS.*ALL OF THEM.*
No one in the Tearling could even see Tear's better world any longer, let alone muster the courage to dig for it." pg 6, ebook.The path isn't easy.
I'm still thinking about it, even though I finished this book last week.I found some of the scenes with (view spoiler)[the Orphan's army (hide spoiler)] to be the creepiest thing Johansen had written for this series.From a lackluster start, I think The Queen of the Tearling series turned out to be fairly enjoyable.
The Queen of the Tearling grew on me.
*3.5 STUPEFYING STARS* "Hatred is easy, and lazy to boot. It’s love that demands effort, love that exacts a price from each of us."  FUCK NO.  I refuse to believe this!THAT was the big revelation after 2 entire books and 400 pages of building up my anticipation?? No. Just no. I will never forgive you for this, Erika Johansen! That entire last chapter was such a big letdown, I'm left speechless. That chapter just never should've happened, honestly. I was so prepared to give this book 5 stars afte
I refuse to believe this!THAT was the big revelation after 2 entire books and 400 pages of building up my anticipation??
That entire last chapter was such a big letdown, I'm left speechless.
I was so prepared to give this book 5 stars after that immense buildup in the first 400-ish pages and everything seemed to come together like pieces of one big puzzle and then...
I don't want to spoil anything for anyone, but I really don't get how Erika Johansen could do that to all the characters we've gotten to know and love throughout this trilogy!
On the surface the stories are not very similar, but when you scratch off the cover and cinema-scope, you are left with two worlds of fantasy that don't necessarily end the way you want them to.
The ending was perfect, and though there were more neat, conventional endings that could have happened, I wouldn't have it any other way.(view spoiler)[(For everyone that doesn't care about spoilers and are just reading the review, wanting to know what happens: Kelsea uses magical sapphires to go back in time to a critical moment in the Tearling's past.
It appears to be a happy ending, a world without violence and greed, but Kelsea's struggle shows that there will always be strife within.
I’m sure there are some unanswered questions I’m forgetting to include bc this book was just all over the place - There were some odd plot points like the 2 odd sex scenes.
It’s like the author wanted to include them but was not sure where to put them so she picked random times.
- I know some people hated the ending but I wasn’t angry at how it ended, mostly because I stopped caring about anything at that point but it was a cop out!- The #1 thing I dislike about this was the portrayal of the Christian religion.
blog***The Fate of the Tearling by Erika JohansenBook Three of The Queen of the Tearling seriesPublisher: HarperPublication Date: November 29, 2016Rating: 4 starsSource: eARC from EdelweissSummary (from Goodreads):The thrilling conclusion to the New York Times bestselling Tearling trilogy.In less than a year, Kelsea Glynn has transformed from a gawky teenager into a powerful monarch.
This particular book is told from many third-person POVs besides Kelsea's; Aisa, Javel, Ewen, the Red Queen.
Kelsea sees Katie's story bit by bit, and begins to understand what she needs to do.A lot of parts and pieces from the previous two books started to fall into place, and a lot of questions are answered.
1.5/5 StarsThe first 92% of this book was amazing. There were parts I was unsure about, but over all it was a 3, perhaps even 4 star book. Then that last chapter happened and I have NEVER been more disappointed in my entire life. That was not an ending, that was just the easy way out. I have never hated an ending more than I hate this one, and I now feel like giving it two stars is being generous. Urgh. I wish I didn't waste my time with that ending. Maybe I'll post a more detailed review later.
Right after finishing the second one, I (voluntarily) got myself a spoiler of the ending and didn’t like it at all; and so, a story I used to love acquired kind of a sour taste.
For one thing, a considerable lack of explanations as regards the magic system, specifically, for instance, questions like (view spoiler)[How did Tear come into possession of the sapphire in the first place, or Why does Kelsey’s face become identical to Lily’s?
This book doesn't even have a title yet but I know it will outshine the two before it... It will be amazing !!!
Would you expect any less? Wow.
I loved the series but the ending seemed like an anti climax after such a big build up
You can see the story arc leading up to some weird possibility of this ending, but I spent the last 30% of the book trying to think of other routes it could take.
The majority of three books focused on Kelsea and it all was leading to a successful queen in control of her kingdom, but we're just going to throw all of that away, I guess.
Not every single thing needs to be explained, but if you throw a major plot point at me and then refuse to give me the answers, I'm going to be upset.
The series is worth reading & my heart aches at the ending, but I am content now but i wasn't sure initially about how the story line wrapped up. The writing is clear even if the plot isn't always straightforward but all in all i loved it.
This one GIF sums up everything I'm feeling about this novel...10/28/15: There's a title!  AND  a synopsis!!!
It wasn't bad but had a different feel to it than book one and two.
I really loved book one.
Book two was good also and added new characters that were great to read about but this one added more new characters (which was not an issue) and just took a different turn than most would expect.
The ending was alright but not as great as I expected after falling in love with book one.
I am glad to have read this trilogy in a row as I did because I believe the changes among the books could be difficult when recalling information.
I spent weeks going through each book with their goddamn long chapters only to have a copout ending.When the Fate of the Tearling was released, I saw that a lot of people were not happy with the ending.
So here we are now, and I can definitely see why the ending wasn't well received.The Fate of the Tearling was supposed to be the final battle between Kelsea and the Red Queen.
4 stelline e non 5 solo perché il secondo libro di questa trilogia resta il mio preferito.Ho amato molto questo ultimo capitolo, e penso che sia una degna conclusione!
Kelsea resta la mia preferita, insieme a Lazarus!
Ho apprezzato molto anche Lily e Katie ed ho adorato leggere del passato dei Tear!
Ci sono alcune incongruenze (di tempistiche più che altro) e colpi di scena che mi hanno fatta arrabbiare, ma non ne ho dato molto conto visto il finale.
Mi mancheranno, ma sono contenta di come sia andata a finire e sorrido, chiudendo il libro e dicendo addio al regno Tearling.
EDIT: 8 February 2018 It's been 5 fucking day's and i'm still thinking about this book!! My god, someone save me.4/5 starsCan you hear that? It’s the sound of my heart being ripped from my chest...If you want to feel pain so great you feel like you’re going to crumble into tiny fragments, just read this series.”The butterfly effect deals in the tendency of infinitesimal variations to amplify over time. ""You never play around with history, because the change you thought you were making for the b
It’s the sound of my heart being ripped from my chest...If you want to feel pain so great you feel like you’re going to crumble into tiny fragments, just read this series.”The butterfly effect deals in the tendency of infinitesimal variations to amplify over time.
These books have my whole heart and I’m so damn happy I picked up The Queen of the Tearling.Erika Johansen, you’re an absolute goddess and I love you but can I please mention that fucking ending??Was that suppose to make me feel good?
Was that suppose to be a happy ending?I felt nothing but fucking empty inside.I almost never want to read this book again.
