https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2671.The_Painted_Word
Jack the Dripper, the king of Abstract Expressionism, an art movement author Tom Wolfe didn't hold in high regard You will be hard-pressed to find a more lively, wittier book on the phenomenon of modern art than Tom Wolfe’s “The Painted Word,” a 100-page romp through the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s where the author jabs his sharp satirical needle with signature debunking flare into Abstract Expressionism, Pop Art, Op Art, Minimalism and Conceptual Art. And that’s ‘Painted Word’ as in Wolfe’s epiphany whilst reading an article in the Sunday New York Times Arts & Leisure section containing these words: “Modern Art has become completely literary: the painting and other works exist only to illustrate the text.”To put it another way, Tom realized, regarding modern art, all his previous trips to museums and galleries to view the work of painters like Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko were uninformed since he neglected a critical first step – understanding the theory revealed via the text, those oh-so-important words.

If one likes the art that Wolfe takes apart, you might find yourself inclined to dislike the book without giving what he's saying enough consideration.
If you asked the man on the street in the 50's and 60's to name a few great living artists, you were likely to hear the names Picasso or Dali, even Pollack after his Time magazine cover.
Wolfe's funny, easily read book touches on some real and vital issues in the art world.And this from someone who studied Art History, loves Jackson Pollack and a great deal of "Manifesto" art.
Rockefeller's living room." The elite in America wanted to import the excitement of Picasso in Europe.On into Pop Art, "a new order, but the same Mother Church." Thus, the arrival on the scene of Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein, and of course, Andy Warhol.Even a skewering of Op Art, in which "real art is nothing but what happens in your brain."Eventually even the need for museums seemed absurd and bourgeois, hence the beginnings of Earth Art, such as Smithson's Spiral Jetty in the Great Salt Lake.Finally, toward the end of the twentieth century, Wolfe believes that "Modern art was about to fulfill its destiny: to become nothing less than Literature pure and simple." And then "Art made its final flight, and disappeared up its own fundamental aperture ...
Wolfe's argument in this short, entertaining, and completely wrong-headed polemic is based on the idea that the non-representational art of the last 100 or so years is a hoax because it can only be appreciated by those who have learned and agree with various abstract theories.
The basic fallacy of this argument is that Wolfe doesn't admit (or perhaps he is really unaware) that the "realistic" nature of the art works he champions is no less dependent on a variety of theories that have either been absorbed into modern Western culture but are by no means universal throughout the world (like perspective and other 3-D modeling techniques) and/or are no longer central to the culture most of us live in and must be learned in art history classes (like the iconography of saints, etc).
Then, during the 20th century, artists increasingly tried to *imitate* literature (as in the case of an unnamed conceptual artist whose "artwork" consisted entirely of a written description of what she wanted her artwork to be).
In other words, Wolfe thinks modern artists, in their self-loathing, began to worship---and to try to imitate---literature of a sort: what Wolfe calls "the Word."I can see why Wolfe is an acclaimed writer, anyway: he has a gift for hyperbole.
Tom Wolfe rips the pish out of art critics using their own chosen weapon - the word.This was probably about round 6 of a 12 rounder between painting and theory.
Up to this pont Theory had been winning every round and it looked like painting was going to have to throw in the towel and abandon the title.
Wolfe stepped into Painting's corner and this round was a decisive winner.
but Painting is still alive and going from strength to strength if not at the cutting edge of lard-'n'-feathers, sharks-in-tanks, used-tampaxes-in-tents that ,
And as for Theory and Critics?
Liked it lots, but I always feel a little gypped when a publisher puffs up what amounts to a magazine feature’s worth of words with a big font, generous line-spacing and margins, and some illustrations, to make it just big enough to put legible text on the spine so they can sell it as a book.
A clear and concise easy to read book about why much contemporary art has become the vast wasteland that it is.
Why is dumb, empty, meaningless, talentless art esteemed in certain galleries?
There is a war of values and wills taking place in a culture that has lost it's philosophical moorings.
Contemporary cultural values have been influenced by the Existentialism and relativism of the 1960's and art follows.
Visual art no longer speaks for itself, but needs an interpreter and justifier to speak for it, something like the Emperor'S New Clothes fable.
Beginning in the 1920s these elites patronized the anti-bourgeois vanguard artists as an act of atonement, even though this bohemian vanguard sought to destroy anything (e.g. realism) comprehensible to the elites' bourgeois taste.The idea is that people in a post-Christian moral economy are desperately seeking a release from guilt.
This is the same argument that some are putting forward to explain the rise of identity politics (with being a loyal ally to the victimized as the analog to supporting bohemian artists).To see it here, in 1975, is evidence in support of Wolfe's prescience.
I could not get into Wolfe's style.
splatters of unchained id." You have to appreciate Wolfe for his bluster and charming if irritating and irascible ability to simplify everything to the level of the five-year-old, which is about the age of his persona as an essay writer, esp.
Nevertheless I was inspired to read this after loving John Updike's take-down of Richard Serra in the NY Review of Books.
Writing in 1974, Wolfe seems to have already had the similar smart insight about contemporary art in the Serra vein, which is that it is fundamentally about consumption, abstracted from the essence of visual experience.
Confession: Wolfe's essays are among my guilty pleasures as a reader.
This was a very interesting read - Tom Wolfe talks about how modern art moved away from being a visual experience and started to be a reaction of what the critics were saying and it all culminated with conceptual art (I happen to like conceptual art, but I agree that it is less "artistic" in the classic sense of the word).
Among the many artists he grills, Wolfe practically skewers Jackson Pollock and says that his art was a mere creation at the request of what the galleries wanted and that leads to one of the more interesting points in this book - that art is the art form that is least influenced by the general public's demand.
A glorious hatchet job on modernist art. Wolfe's main point is that most schools of modernist art cannot be appreciated unless you first understand the theory behind them, which makes the art itself pretty much irrelevant. It's all about the theory. Wolfe is delightfully vicious and highly entertaining.
Tom Wolfe has mastered the art of being shocked and horrified at the mundane and obvious. This book has the character of a child that has discovered some new situation and, misconstruing it, lets forth a torrent of outrage without insight. His assault on 'theory' only demonstrates the necessity of substance to fill out style.
In his 1975 book The Painted Word Tom Wolfe, America’s favorite white-suited New Journalist, examined the New York City art scene and the leading critics of the past 30 years.
He was reading The New York Times on April 28, 1974, when he read an article by Hilton Kramer that basically said, in Wolfe’s words, “In short: frankly, these days, without a theory to go with it, I can’t see a painting.” (p.2) Wolfe naturally wondered how modern art had arrived at this point.
I love this book.
When I read the last page, I returned to the beginning of the book and read it again.
I wish I had read this book years ago.
It made very clear to me all the things that had always puzzled me about "modern art." Wolfe covers art movements starting with Cubism, Dada, Surrealism, and on through Abstract Expressionism, Pop Art, Op Art, Art Installations, Earth Art and Conceptual Art.There is humor throughout the book, such as this quote from an art critic of the time: "Shards of interpenetrated sensibility make their way, tentatively, through a not always compromisable field of cobalt blue..." When the emperor has no clothes, Wolfe is delighted to point that out to the reader.It's a small, easily readable book of around a hundred pages, some of which are almost empty or filled with illustrations and photos.
Highly enjoyable critique of the origin and content (Flatness!!) of Abstract Expressionism and other Modern Art schools. No more trouble to read than a lengthy essay.
If your interest is writing or art, you’ll enjoy The Painted Word by Tom Wolf.
This is Wolf at the top of his game and you’ll find yourself constantly reading passages aloud to anyone within earshot.
First published in 1975, Wolf decomposes modern art movements in a way that is both enlightening and entertaining.
Even if you have only a cursory understanding of modern art, Wolf’s insightfulness will prompt numerous “oh yeah, now I get it” moments.
The Painted Word will make your next visit to an art museum more discerning and a heck of a lot more fun.
Tom Wolfe waxes snarky about Modern Art. He hates everything, but he's funny about it.
And given the nature of our intellectual commerce with the works of art, to lack a persuasive theory is to lack something crucial- the means by which our experience of individual works is joined to our understanding of the values they signify.”This may be the reason he wrote the book, but it looks a lot like a bandwagon that came by and he jumped on to tell the world that the modern artists really don’t have anything to say and, of course, the best and meaningful message is from the writers.Wolfe refers to the well-educated people who appreciate the arts, saying this smug elite group have made the decision as to what art is for everyone.
I understand where he's coming from: this idea that modern art is reliant on theory (words) for people to understand it, in comparison I suppose to "old masters" or Renaissance art or even social realist art of the early 20th century, where you could look at a painting and "get it" simply by looking at it.
However, I do think Wolfe makes a point in his constant needling of the upper-middle class types who think themselves "different" from their bourgeois neighbors because they own a de Kooning and are "part" of the boho modern art crowd.
Oh my! No wonder Jeff loves Wolfe so much. As a starting point on the “read the authors that died last year” journey, I picked up the smallest Wolfe book — a devastating shake down of “modern art” as descending into the literary with adherence to the Word (here defined as flatness). I need to read it again with a dictionary nearby.
This was a quick, easy listen-read on Wolfe spectating the burgeoning modern art movement. Very short and in audio without pics, most of it breezes by this Wolfe fan that is not an art aficionado. I can picture Pollack, sure, but not Jasper Johns... It is interesting and relevant the point that the painting world does not have a popular following, like music, film, etc. Also, it is interesting but I can not form an opinion on the accentuating of inherent "flatness" in the post-cubists art movements.
Re-reading some of my favorites by the late Tom Wolfe. This book is still painfully, awesomely funny.
(It also feels as if it’s a little bit about Tom Wolfe, too, but then, what book of his doesn’t feel that way?) Still, it’s an engaging read, filled with Wolfe’s studied observations and dripping with a detached bemusement toward the twisted subculture of art.
Wolfe argues that the artist who gets stuck in a crippling disdain for his audience, who cannot accept the offer to dance when it is made, is doomed to stagnation and will not be revered by history.
According to Wolfe, the public, with their dollars determines the most popular books, music and concerts.
Even the insiders don’t like it but if they consider it new, avant-guard, ahead of it’s time and other adjectives, then it’s good art.
These insiders don’t seem to consider whether the artist has talent.
They only seem to consider whether or not the artist’s work fits into a theory or narrative that the insiders are into at the moment.Reading about the art world made me think of the academic world of music.
Both camps are orchestrated by the insiders and very little money is spent by the public to look at or hear.
Кога "картина", състояща се от една червена линия на син фон придоби цена от $60 млн.?Ако, като мен, си задавате тия въпроси, Том Улф има отговор на тях, само не знам дали ще ви хареса.
crapola.This is a cynical and insightful description of some of the forces behind 'success' in art, mostly centered in mid-last-century.
It was recommended to me by two friends who are both professional artists.
According to this book, it is because the entire art world consists of a few score thousand people worldwide, and the public at large is both unequipped and not permitted to know what is 'the latest thing'.
But then, I'm not a professional, just a perpetual amateur with growing sensibilities and increasing skills and vision.
I'd read this book.
Unfortunately, Wolfe doesn't cover the sincere art world that went virtually underground as the modernist movement trashed the good and bad of the old world only to create something unimaginably laughable.
I would have liked to have gotten his point-of-view on the artists who continued to bust their asses to learn master techniques, the human form, and most of all, esthetically valid forms of abstraction.Dali's 50 Secrets of Magic Craftsmanship is a good companion read to Wolfe's Painted Word.
