https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2767793-the-hero-of-ages
As I finish this trilogy, I feel like addressing this book on two levels: first, on its own strengths and weaknesses as a novel; and second, as the capstone of the series and as an exposition of the Mistborn world and mythology.
Completely absent is any feeling that the author was making things up as he went along; I never once found myself having that “Sure Luke and Leia were always supposed to be siblings, George” feeling, nor even that “You know, Jo, when Hagrid got out of Azkaban prison at the end of your second book, he acted as though it was no big deal” feeling.And this is great for me, because I’m a pedantic geek myself when I read fantasy and sci-fi; it’s naturally difficult for me to suspend disbelief, and I’m constantly mentally peeking around corners and poking at curtains.
Fantastic conclusion to a truly amazing trilogy! Brandon Sanderson is a masterful storyteller.BOOKTALK HERE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4k99...
Picture: The Hero of Ages by breath-artI’ve read and reviewed more than 200 novels within the past two and a half years.
I found a lot of friends who have the same hobby as me, I found a new job, I found a new girlfriend who loves to read and understand my passions; I’m not empty anymore.Some readers will consider Brandon Sanderson a weak author who doesn’t deserve his success.
A story about me, and I’d like to thank Brandon Sanderson for sparking my love for reading novels.
I cried =(I finally got to find out all of the mysteries behind the mysteries in the book.
I loved how Spook's character grew so much in this book, although some of it wasn't from a good place.
I fell in love with his character a lot in this book.
I still love Sazed and he had such an important part in all the books.
I'm so happy for his ending in the book.
I love Brandon Sanderson, even though he breaks my heart!
I will always love you both ♥
"You've led us to die!" Fatren yelled.
"Why?" Fatren demanded.
This was the most perfect series finale I can remember reading... I cannot... I just........ A review will be on my channel when I can form words.
And this particular journey, was most possibly, the most rewarding journey I’ve ever been on in the literary world I thrive on.When a novel really makes me feel, it becomes more dear and precious to me than any other book.
Not only does it make you feel deeply, it has outstanding world building, an incredible cast of characters that you love dearly, and a brilliant execution of a story that leaves you in breathless awe.I knew this series wasn’t all happy endings and rainbows and light.
When I love a book so deeply and desperately, I can’t not tell everyone of its brilliance, and that they MUST read it.
"I am, unfortunately, the Hero of Ages." Books like this are the reason I am so harsh on shitty books, is all i have to say right nowReview to come.
What a heart wrenching, but beautiful ending to this fantastic series.😭
The Hero of Ages is undeniably a satisfying ending to the Mistborn series which answered all my questions and more.
Tensoon and Sazed remained my favorite heroes and I am delighted with the way their storyline developed.
Also, the dialogues were a bit flat and I love powerful words exchanges.
Lastly, I wouldn’t have minded a bit of humor in the mix although I understand why Sanderson might have thought that it wouldn’t go well with the depressing atmosphere.
It is a series worth reading, I loved most of it and I will definitely read more Sanderson in the near future.
With Sanderson it feels like I’m reading something completely new and completely exciting.
I love the way Sanderson does this; he captures internal conflict really well, as Elend questions morality and the necessary nature of being a strong leader.
If I was to rate this book just on its action then I would give it five stars.
I think the ending of the series was superb, but there was also another six hundred or pages or so to contend with.
The conflict at the beginning of the book had much more time devoted to it than the crux of the plot.
Yes, the worldbuilding and magic is creative, but the amount of information Sanderson packs into this trilogy was more than a little bit exhausting, especially when reading all three books pretty much in a row.
In this book, they're straight up infodumps, pertaining to a new magic system that he clearly couldn't find another way to work into the story.I was left wondering what the point of all this information was, and like an english major taking a math course, wondering why I needed to know it.
I CANT FORM WORDS
*Grabs mic*  *Clears throat and begins to scream*FUCK YOUFUCK MEFUCK THISFUCK THATFUCK EVERYTHINGI SALUTE YOU, BRANDON SANDERSON!! I'm just going to go kindly check myself into the hospital. I suffered multiple cardiac arrests over these endless plot twists. Sanderson has  ZERO  mercy. Let me repeat that:  ZERO MOTHERFUCKING MERCY. *Drops Mic*
I cry but I'm also so happy. WHAT AN ENDING. I've never been so happy to be so sad.
1st read: Nov 20142nd read: April 20153rd read: April/May 20164th read: November 2017I mean, it was perfect obviously. As glorious and bittersweet and fulfilling as the first time I read it. I'm in awe of Sanderson! I'm amazed by his skill as an author. As someone who designed a world from scratch and connected the plot lines in such a god-like way almost. Even though, I've read it 4 times, I still cannot fathom the scale of epicness.Forever my favourite trilogy.
So this was BY FAR my favorite installment in the first Mistborn trilogy.I cannot even begin to sum up how great this was.  LIKE DAMN. I've mentioned before how much I appreciate Sanderson's heavy inclusion of religion and religious characters in his work. He somehow is able to ask those big questions, taking his characters through hell and back, without making the reader feel at all criticized or alienated. The character developments in this one (especially for my precious Spook) were just beyo
I've mentioned before how much I appreciate Sanderson's heavy inclusion of religion and religious characters in his work.
The character developments in this one (especially for my precious Spook) were just beyond anything I could've imagined.
each character grew to be so much more than what they were
when we began this journey in The Final Empire.Now that I'm sitting at the end of this series, I believe wholeheartedly that this book is responsible for tying together the first two into what became this brilliant high fantasy epic.
A beautifully crafted ending.
I have a little time to read this book because of Ramadan.The Hero of Ages genres are fantasy and sci-fi.This book has focused on the characters of Vin and Elend.'The Hero of Ages' was a lot quicker. I love this book so much Alhamdulillah!This is the best trilogy! I have ever read Alhamdulillah!Oh, wow you have changed, Spook my dear man!I love the conclusion of the 'Mistborn' trilogy so much Alhamdulillah. It is very sad. I cry a lot in the end of this book. The end of this book are happy and sad.Lists of 'Misborn' trilogy unforgettable characters:Kelsier/KellSazedElendVinZaneBreezeHamDocksonClubsSpookTenSoon
Re-reading because:1 - It is Brandon Sanderson and he is always better the second time through2 - Shadows of Self comes out next month 3 - I just can't fight this feeling anymoreBuddy Read of the Mistborn series with some friends at Sanctum of Fantasy and it was worth it.
I always feel like he had every part of the magic system and world building figured out before he ever started the first book.
He is for the fantasy reader that loves all the details and respects the world building as well as the story.
Buddy read with   TESSY  I just discovered my new favourite series, The originality of this series is astounding, I already miss this world and the character, its like nothing I’ve ever read before, Allomancy,Feruchemy and Hemalurgy the new forms of magical powers where you can control metals by either consuming them, storing strengths in metals amongst other stuff. If you have not read this series I suggest you pick it up ASAP.This book made me cry more than anything I’ve ever read in all my li
(view spoiler)[ Now a mistborn and the Emperor that is trying to saved everyone, He is still too honorable, He refused to attack a city that captured his wife Vin because he knows that she would rather he find another way, than an innocent person dying because of her.
(view spoiler)[ Sazed is also the hero of ages, yes I know we did not see that coming, We all thought it’ll be Vin, but no its Sazed.
I felt so bad when he said that he knows Vin and Elend more than his own children.
📂 files  └📁 rare  └📁 very rare └📁 vin and elend finding true love and happiness and being content and seeing the world restored and beautiful and getting more dances and balls and being cute and sassing each other guys. . . i think sanderson broke me5 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~brandon sanderson is an evil man who creates the most intricate and detailed worlds and gives me the most precious and perfect characters and then he ruins me with his fricken plot twists so, basically im here for pain
I love how everything tied in at the end - I'm usually good at guessing everything but I kept being shocked by this book. The characters' growth was enjoyable to watch, the magic system and the world building became more and more complex which I adored!I didn't 100% love the ending but I still loved this book.I can't wait to continue with the next ones!
I don't even have words to describe the last book in this series.I finished last night and I'm still trying to wrap my head around everything that happened in this last book. To be completely honest, my heart is a bit broke as well. Bloody hell!This book and series is one of the best fantasy series that I’ve read.Kudos Brandon Sanderson! I bow down to your world building, your amazing magical system and for breaking my heart!
I wrote a longer review talking about how much I loved depression rep and the romance rep in this book (and the whole trilogy).
Thank you The Mistborn trilogy for becoming my new favorite trilogy of all time.
Thank you Brandon Sanderson for making me cry because your books are masterpieces.
That ending...This book made me cry at least 5 times.
“I ask of you your lives,” Elend said, voice echoing, “and your courage.
I ask of you your faith, and your honor—your strength, and your compassion.
I will not ask you to welcome this event.
But in the centre of it all stand Vin, recognised in the Final Empire as the fabled Hero of Ages, the one destined to save the world.This book is the last chapter of a legend.
And finally there is The Hero of Ages, a book about the ultimate struggle between preservation and ruin, about the struggle to survive through the end of the world itself.An interesting part of this book is its focus on religious and political fanaticism.
“Faith means that it doesn't matter what happens. You can trust that somebody is watching. Trust that somebody will make it all right.” ― Brandon Sanderson, The Hero of AgesWell, I didn't see that coming !! 😭😭😭😭
*sobs* What an ending to a fantastic trilogy. Just wow.
Amazing diverse characters, a meticulous crafted magic system and powerful theme of good vs evil makes this one of my favorite series of all times.
Bravo Mr Sanderson!‘Hero of Ages’ is arguably the strongest of all 3 books in the series, if that’s even possible.
KolossAgain, the seamless interplay of ‘Allomancy ‘ magic system is so well played by Sanderson, that it becomes second nature to the story!
Vin The story conclusion felt right.
Sanderson was able to coalesce all different aspects of this amazing story.
I guess in the end, Sanderson showed us readers, that fighting for good will always overcome evil.
I have 3 thoughts1) I hate you Brandon Sanderson. You better pay for some therapy sessions because my heart can't take anymore. 2) I WORKED OUT WHO THE HERO OF AGES WAS BEFORE IT WAS REVEALED! I feel so accomplished3) Why did I take so long to read these books? And now I shall resume my rocking back and forth and crying in the fetal position. Goodbye
But for now, we simply have to be satisfied with who we are.”3 books182 chapters2212 pages of awesomeness!!I can't say that I saw that coming, I saw a few things coming but the ending as whole was a bit surprising, everything is explained in this book with so many revelations.I think The well of ascension is my fav in the series, because the character development and storyline were just so perfect, this book was very good, but not much character development happened except for Spook, Sazed was my fav all along so...
God, my emotions are all over the place. I've never read a book with an ending that made me so sad, but also so satisfied at the same time.I don't think that there would be a better way to end this series than this. It was just so epic. The whole series was.
