https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18860.The_Little_Red_Lighthouse_and_the_Great_Gray_Bridge
One of many favorite books we discovered thanks to Reading Rainbow*. Straightening books in the back room and my eyes fell on this. A charming tale about realizing size has nothing to do with importance or usefulness. A fun book to read aloud due to repetitive words and sound effects. And best of all it is based on a real lighthouse and bridge in New York.*A brief check showed me RR has now become digital with a Skybrary.
In the classic picture book tradition, this functional object is imbued with the friendly qualities equal to its usefulness.
Our friend the lighthouse beams on the page.This is not only a delightful story, but it's also a very important book that illustrates the power of children's books.
After it's publication, so many children wrote letters wanting to save the little red lighthouse, that eventually it was spared.
Now, once a year, the city holds a Little Red Lighthouse Day where it's open to the public and to this day, children still flock to it.
Published in 1942, this tells, in a rather inventive way, the story of the little red lighthouse which still stands proud beneath the George Washington Bridge.
Originally there, pre-bridge, as a guide for those sailing the Hudson River, the personified lighthouse feels obsolete with the dawn of the great Bridge but finds that it is far from redundant and still needed by the people of New York.
Together, Bridge and Lighthouse are there as guides throughout the night to the boats of the water and those of the skies.
Here's another subject of books I love: things that are things but are like people in stories.
Like Mike Mulligan and his steam shovel, and this one.
HA!) and the lighthouse keeps everyone safe, but one day they build a big bridge over him and he gets sad because he can't help people anymore.
And they all live happily ever after!This is an old one but it's SO good.
I really believed that the lighthouse and the boats and the bridge were real.
The bridge is like the lighthouse's big brother.
So they should get along great.A really really good one!!
This is an amazing book. I first heard it read on the "Captain Kangaroo" show in the mid 1960's - and loved it so much I asked my parents to buy it for me. They did, and now I have bought it for my daughter, my nephew and my niece. And the best part is that the Little Red Lighthouse is still there, on Manhattan under the "great gray bridge" - the George Washington Bridge. A wonderfully imaginative book that I would recommend to anyone who has children to read to.
Particularly fun for children living in New York or new Jersey who regularly commute over the GW bridge.
I didn't read this until my husband introduced me to it as an adult (it was one of his childhood favorites). Now I can't look at the GW without thinking about the little red lighthouse below.
I totally did not tear up at the end of this book. >.>I envision a lot of little nieces and nephews getting copies of this for birthdays/Christmas.
It feels like a spin-off of Virginia Lee Burton's stories, such as The Little House and Maybelle, which I like, but I think this is not executed as well. And if you don't care for Burton's stories, you probably won't like this either.Ages: 4 -8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
I picked this book up strictly because of the cover.
I thought the boys might enjoy it.
They did and it had a really great story, of change and purpose.
I researched a bit on YouTube about it because Mike had said it was still there and apparently the kids who read this book and loved it would go visit the lighthouse.
Some years later they were going to tear it down and the kids who loved it petitioned it not being destroyed and now it’s a museum and states the kids who loved the book had saved it.
I think that’s a pretty cool story.
The boys love the story!
The book has a chronological plot following the days of the little red lighthouse in his experience before and after the building of the Hudson River Bridge, in the setting of New York City.
First, the protagonist, the little red lighthouse feels extremely proud of his job keeping the boats safe along the Hudson river.
The book finishes with a solution to the conflict and the little red lighthouse and the great grey bridge working together as they still do today.Ward uses beautiful watercolor paintings in this edition that restores the original design of the book published in 1942.
The George Washington Bridge connecting New York (via Manhatten) to New Jersey (Fort Lee) is built in this simple story, which is told from the perspective of a little red lighthouse who is overshadowed by it.
The epilogue clarifies that Ward rendered the drawings in ink, and then added watercolor of only two colors - blue and red.
In this regard, the book could be used effectively in an art class.A wonder full book for locals, an exciting book for children traveling to NYC who can see the George Washington Bridge, a brilliant example of illustration for artists and a solid library check out for the rest of us.

Reminiscent of the books by Virginia Lee Burton, such as Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel and especially The Little House.I picked this book because I have become a recent fan of artist Lynd Ward.
This is nice book, about a very real little lighthouse in Manhattan's Washington Park, under the grand George Washington bridge.
Happily, the lighthouse avoided demolition and still stands erect today, although sadly it is no longer lit.My favorite picture is of..."A thick fog crept over the river and tried to clutch the boats one by one." The illustration is a spooky and sure to give young readers an exciting chill.

(Review is for a different edition)This was one of my favorite books as a child. The message of the story is great, however the illustrations are what make this book stand out.You are important! No matter how small or insignificant events or people make you feel, your size doesn't matter, you can make a difference and you are needed in your world!This is a great book for kids of all ages, and I enjoy reading it to my children just as much as I once enjoyed having it read to me when I was their age.
Any child who reads this will forever after (even when they are past 40!) be watching for the lighthouse as they drive near the George Washington Bridge in NYC. In addition to being a wonderful story every child should experience, this book shows the power a story can have. Because of this book, the Little Red Lighthouse (official named the Jeffrey's Hook lighthouse) was restored and can be visited by children and their families. Go to www.hudsonlights.com/littlered.htm for more information. And be sure and read the book before going!
A wonderful story about believing in yourself and the uniqueness that is every individual. This was a favorite of mine growing up. For years my dad would taunt me that The Little Red Lighthouse didn't really exist—that it was just a myth—but I believed and defended it's existence even though it was years before I would see it for myself. This book was also so beloved that when it became known the lighthouse was to be demolished, area children protested and saved the landmark. It still stands beneath the GW, hopefully a permanent fixture.

The artwork in The Little Red Lighthouse is very, very pretty. It's lush and somehow creamy. I just love it.I was afraid the story was one of those complex-giving ones -- all things are sentient and also old things are better for no reason other than they're old, so you should always feel guilty and sad about getting rid of things or finding superior technologies! But it's not -- it's about everybody having a purpose. Much better.
This was recommended to me by Dick "Your Voice Sounds Like Angels" VK. He stared at the lighthouse and bridge in this story for quite some time while his daughter was in the hospital for an extended stay. I feel that this book was probably awesome when it first came out in 1942 and as it is a Reading Rainbow book, I'm sure it remained awesome for quite some time. I can also see how Dick likes it, since he has an emotional tie. Me? I was bored silly.
This is an amazing read aloud for storytime. I found myself quite easily with the text to be animated. The watercolor illustrations are lovely and I understand why this is a vintage story brought back to life. Well worthy to be a classic with such beauty in color as we'll as in text. Also on top if that already merit it has a great meaning and moral message in the purpose of the new and old. Definitely a worthy purchase well made.
One of my favorite children's books of all time from when I was a kid. And did you know you can actually go see the Little Red Lighthouse, its located at the base of the eastern pier of the George Washington Bridge in New York City.That and a Lighthouse with an inferiority complex, and a worrier...you can't go wrong with that!
i have the 1973 printed edition.i was first given this book when i was a child. many, many, many years later i still have the book. i still read it every once in a while. i would like to go to new york someday to see if the little red lighthouse and the great gray bridge are still standing side by side on the hudson river ... ... who knows - one day i just might.
Very interesting book which makes non-fiction fun to read by personifying the lighthouse, bridge, boats and fog. The illustrations are nice and warm and the story is easy to read, without being elementary. I loved that the story of the lighthouse's restoration was on the back cover. The moral that even small people/jobs can still be very important and needed is sure to appeal to children.
I love the fact that this very old lighthouse still stands in the shadow of the great George Washington Bridge-a bridge whose lights I grew up seeing from my bedroom window without ever knowing the lighthouse hidden behind it. The pictures are well-done & it evokes a sense of somehow nostalgic pride in my "hometown" - New York City.
The restored original watercolors printed on cream paper shine an even brighter light on this classic children's book. This is an example of the combination of imagination, craft, and care that fuel my passion for books. E-readers have a place, but this story would not look or feel quite as beautiful in an electronic form.
This is a cute story first published in 1942 that brings lighthouse, boats and bridges to life as sentient beings. For children who already know and love Thomas the Tank Engine and/or Theodore Tugboat, this story will be a natural favorite for them. It's also a great story about being proud of what one does and doing it well.
A gorgeous old picture book in the same vein as Little Toot, with its anthropomorphised boats and structures and sound moral message: 'Each to his own place, little brother'. The illustrations are top-notch and exquisitely detailed. Next time I'm in NY, I'll have to look out for the little lighthouse. :)
I was skeptical about this book at first because I teach 4 and 5 year olds and just wasn't sure. It seemed long at first glance. I was wrong. They absolutely adored it. They were so interested in the bridge (The George Washington Bridge) and lighthouse I had to look up youtube videos for them.
