https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401789.The_Dark_Labyrinth
This is the best book no one's ever heard of. It's really had to find, and I can't understand why, because Lawrence Durrell's a pretty popular author. This was the first book I read by him and still my favorite, about a group of people who get separated from each other exploring these caves in Greece, and what happens to all of them, inside and out. Really creative, and I don't think he ever got this good again.
Certainly I think Durrell is making some pretty specific comments on British society of the time; but he's also making comments about humanity more generally that are still applicable today.The story: a bunch of random people, some with tenuous connections and other not, come together to go explore a labyrinth on Crete as a day-trip from their Mediterranean cruise.
That doesn't mean you need to understand 1940s Britain to get the novel; it just means that understanding these people live in a basically recognisable but actually very different world is an important thing to keep in mind.
This is a fascinating read with profound insights into the shortcomings of academia and archaeology. The opening scene (as I recall from reading 20 years ago- yet still seems vivid) is of an old archaeologist playing chess while casually explaining how he falsified a dig in order to lift his career and expose other archaeologists as frauds. The irony drips off the page as the retiring scholar explains how everyone will now rewrite the history of civilization because of his fraud... to prove his point that they are posturing for careers instead of truths. Captivating.
A classic tale from the master. On one level a physical exploration of a labyrinth on the Island of Crete, on another a metaphysical exploration of the labyrinth of the human soul, that Durrell conducts vis his characters. A totally gripping read that is impossible to put down. The fate of those who escape the rock fall in the labyrinth come as a complete surprise!
I picked this to read after watching the PBS show The Durrells of Corfu. I had no idea that the Durrells were real people until I did a search for the show on Amazon and saw so many books written by Lawrence and Gerald. It was a little hard to follow at times, but kept my interest to finally find out what happened to all those who had taken the trip to see The Labyrinth and the Minotaur.
Uma fastidiosa alegoria. Datada, e formalmente preguiçosa. Não vale mesmo a pena.
Zanimljiv pogled na mit o Minotauru, od tvorca Aleksandrijskog kvarteta.
If you survive the excruciatingly dull character development during the first two thirds of the book you will be rewarded with a really great conclusion from the point they enter the labyrinth. The labyrinth acts as a sort of higher conscience that delivers to each character exactly the outcome they need or deserve. It amplifies their fears and desires, it materializes them and confronts them.

The book was very boring at the beginning but I was stubborn enough to move thorugh it and as the action unfolds, the story gets really exciting, even a bit surreal. The final chapter about the labyrinth and its possible paths is almost cathartic, a brilliant metaphor about our inner life with all the hopes, dreams and fears and really sticks in your brain for days. Overall, great storyteller who will make you see Greece (and even life!) with different eyes.
I've read this book multiple times. It's one of my favorite of all times. Every character in this novel has finds their own version of salvation, only to find it's also their own hell. Some survive, some don't. "Be specific. Be very specific." --The Safety of Objects
Durrell certainly knew how to set up his characters and set the stage for his story.
However, I found that the "real' story began over half way through the book, and the endings for each character were somewhat incomplete.
The archeological significance of the labyrinth, and its discovery, I also found a bit confusing to understand exactly who had made the discovery, and whether or not it was believed by the academic world to be "real" or not.Would I choose to read more of Lawrence Durrell?
I may try another of his books, as he was very prolific, but may choose one which is a series.
The Dark Labyrinth is very San Luis Rey, which may reveal too much but by the second page the deed is done, so there. Durrell paints a cast of unfortunate characters to descend into the titular abyss on the island of Crete. Themes of guilt, illness and ennui abound. Postwar disappointment leads our cast to East but not quite Exotic Marigold Hotel.Despite the powerful Mediterranean atmosphere one could discern that Durrell is still struggling in the wake of Huxley, yet to depart for his own singular quantum ethos of Alexandra. 3.4 stars.
A group of British tourists become lost in the dark cave after a rock fall kills their guide; they are (with one exception, a man who found his way out) believed dead.From the symbolic point of view, it is clear that the labyrinth represents a spiritual or psychological crisis in the lives of these people, some sort of difficulty that they need to find their way through.
'The Dark Labyrinth' (1947) is Lawrence Durrell's fourth novel and his first after the early masterpiece 'The Black Book' (1938).
Originally published as 'Cefalu' in the UK, it was republished in the US under an alternate title to capitalize on the success of 'The Alexandria Quartet.''The Dark Labyrinth' finds Durrell attempting a more conventional style after the experimental prose poetry of 'Black Book,' an approach reintroduced in more measured fashion with 'Justine' in 1957.
'The Dark Labyrinth' features an expansive cast of characters, often introduced with a large volume of exposition.
In the end, 'The Dark Labyrinth' feels awkwardly proportioned, but his genius for language is evident throughout.
Although the plot is not as exciting as it could have been (which isn't really disappointing considering it is not an action novel), it is truly the mind-twisting way in which Lawrence Durrell writes that makes this read an extraordinary one.
Reading this novel was a bit like placing my brain in a warped realm -- there are so many polychromatic ideas within it painted by the author's slight brush strokes that it becomes difficult trying to grasp it all completely in one gaze.
But that is precisely what makes this novel all the more enchanting.
A captivating Mediterranean novel,full of atmosphere and the vivid first-hand experience is the description about the landscape and people of which Durrell was a master.
They include a lot of eccentric people each on his or her own mission.
To some extent the book is half mystery/suspense romantic and a psychological story, the characters tells you about their experiences, themselves and a certain psychological unease that has led most of them to embark on their journey.
The climax is a disastrous visit to the labyrinth, with its reported minotaur, a gripping piece of story-telling.
Finally, I finished!!! Maybe it was me, but this is one of the hardest to finish... I had no desire to read it...I find characters, although described in detail and some deeply analyzed, false, lifeless, like puppets moving around in the hand of various puppet masters. The end was somehow saving the book, but...really why do you need 200 pages for 50 beautiful ones? Mythology? There is only a tint of it...and not even really used, or analyzed, just some pretext, as if the action is in Greece there must be some mythological being wandering around...
Great book! Reminded me a little bit of ‘The Magus’ in some ways (although I read that a long time ago so that comparison is possibly completely irrelevant - my memory is terrible). Loved the writing and a thought-provoking story to boot. Not sure I necessarily ‘got it’ but I like that aspect of it - maybe I did ‘get it’?
The whole of the first chapter was entirely spent on describing the people involved, including one whose voice was likened to a volcano, and described as like a monomaniac... I'm not sure I have the stamina for the rest of this one, however keen I might be to see what the scenario around the labyrinth might be.Not finished.
Lugesin reisil ka oma teise Lawrence Durrelli raamatu. See oli selline pisut nõutuksvõttev, aga otsustasin jääda selle juurde, et on mõjuv portree ajastust ja ühest või paarist tollasest inimtüübist ning mitte hakata liigselt pead vaevama, kas see inimtüüp mulle ka meeldib. Labürint ise kahtlemata küll, pime ja põnev, sees ja väljas.
Proclus said that "It is customary for theologians to put Crete in the place of the Intelligible," (In Tim. I, 118); so too Durrell. A jewel of a novel, a petite masterwork of high modernism. It's as though Agatha Christie wrote an alchemical text.
I read this book from cover to cover in one day. It contained just about every element you want in a good story as well as making you think about the meaning of life. It would make an excellent movie.
Superbly written story about a disparate group of visitors to Crete and its ancient labyrinth. It draws on the history and legends of the island and on Durrell's own time living there. The labyrinth is not only physical.
Durrell is one of my fav authors and I love to read his books when I travel to his locations. This is one of his most accessible books but still retains that sort of magical allegorical quality. Wonderful!
I've reread this and appreciate now much more the subtlety of Durrell's characterisation which transforms a potential Cretan version of the 'Poseidon Adventure' into an intricately crafted social commentary with beautiful description and observation
Durrell writes an intriguing story set during WWII as some tourists get trapped on the isle of Crete. Their labyrinth becomes the plot of the story. Enjoyable read.
Unusual but beautifully written, I didn't really get into this book until the last third. But that part was stunning. I'll certainly read more Durrell.
I liked most the mythical land found by the main character after passing through the labyrinth. We all would like to found such a place sometimes in our lives.My copy of this book is in romanian.
Present from John
