https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/790418.Selected_Poems
speak!speak if you must, but speaking speaking speakingwhat does it get us, what does it get us, what?act act act act givegiving is love, giving is love, give!One cricket said to another =what is love what is love what is love -act - speak - act - speak - act - speak -give - take - give - take - give - take -more slowly as the autumn comes, but givingand taking still, - you taking, and I giving?And the other cricket said to the first -yes!
But while they quarrelled, these two foolish crickets,and bandied act with word, denying each,weighing their actions out in terms of speech,the frost came whitely down and furred them both,the speech grew slower, and the action nil,and, at the end, even the word was still,and god began again.
NV Archives PS3501 L5 A6 1961
I suspect many would describe Aiken’s poetry in general the same way.Aiken himself led a difficult life.
His poetry is honest, in that it frequently autobiographical connects his language to his self-doubt (which was so severe that it led to at least one attempted suicide).His most famous poems are the two Preludes.
Preludes to Memnon contain many passages that are quite brilliant.--I saw myself and God.I saw the ruin in which godhead lives:Shapeless and vast: the strewn wreck of the world:Sadness unplumbed: misery without bound.Wailing I heard, but also I heard joy.Wreckage I saw, but also I saw flowers.Hatred I saw, but also I saw love .
His poetry is very real, often sad, and always difficult and beautiful.
Wonderful. Very musical and strange. Sometimes you get the feeling that music is favoured over meaning or clarity, but that's something I don't mind. I'm currently re-reading The Biography of Senlin. The middle section contains some of the best poetry I've read in a long time. Apparently he wrote notes to this in his Collected Poems, but I can't find the collected poems anywhere - not even in our city library. I take it they're out of print - does anyone know where they might still be sourced?
https://books.google.se/books?id=JDwa...
