https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110397.How_to_Marry_a_Marquis
Lo mejor de "Cómo casarse con un marqués" fue descubrir que el gran personaje secundario de éste libro, y que juega un papel muy, muy importante, es nada más y nada menos que Lady Danbury; la entrañable anciana de la serie de los Bridgerton.En esta historia conocemos a Elizabeth Hotchkiss, una dama de la nobleza rural y empobrecida, que se ve relegada a trabajar como dama de compañía, y de Lady Danbury nada menos.
Elizabeth descubre de manera casual en la biblioteca de Lady Danbury un librito llamado "Cómo casarse con un marqués", quizás sus enseñanzas no le vendrían mal, ya que lo que necesita es casarse, y mejor si puede ser de alguien con dinero.
Elizabeth is desperate enough to marry for money, but suddenly too good to accept money from James.
Even if it meant comfort for her siblings and the much needed education for her brother.
And even to refuse marriage (or any common sense) from the Marquis who kept trying to tell her he loved her and the real reason why he kept his identity hidden.
But noooooooo all Elizabeth can rail on and on and on about is how it was all a heinous plot by James to simply mock her.
Perhaps she should let her siblings starve and be homeless then.
Historical romance - 3.5 stars!Sweet and fun!"Are you paying attention or just trying to make me look like an idiot?""Oh, I'm definately paying attention. If you look like an idiot it has nothing to do with me.""He looks like a man." "How descriptive," Susan said in a droll tone. "Remind me never to advise you to seek work as a novelist."
(Edited: spoiler deleted scene - copied from JQ's website - at the end of this review. Another lovely epilogue)I have no doubt that Julia Quinn is the queen of historical romance to me. This book gave me a great time (I was ill when I read this). It had quite a simple and common story with predictable plot and yet I ended up loving it. Tons of laughter guaranteed! “I offered to burn the book, if you recall. I told you it was utter nonsense." He glared at her, and when that didn't cause her to qu
If James and Elizabeth don't make you laugh loud enough, Lady Danbury will.
~ JQEpilogue(view spoiler)[It was a perfect wedding… almost.James Anthony Edward, Wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinance, in the holy estate of Matrimony?
"I do."The curate continued with the ceremony and James repeated his vows, but in the first pew, not everyone was paying attention."What are you holding?" Jane whispered to Susan."Be quiet.""What is it?""I said, be quiet.""But I want to know.""The two of you," Lady Danbury hissed, turning to face them, "be quiet.
Precioso, desde la primera hasta la ultima pagina. A pesar de que al final ella se torna demasiado orgullosa, aunque en parte la entiendo que enterarse de la verdad de esa forma hiciera que mandará a paseo a James.Divertido, de lectura ágil y con unos personajes tanto secundarios como principales (adoro a James, es un amor) encantadores, es un final de serie de broche de oro.
I liked this way more than the first.I love Lady Danbury and her adorable, moody cat, Malcolm.The couple was cute too, but they (mainly the girl) got rather annoying in the last 15-20%.
(view spoiler)[Happy.
(hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[No, no, was low and then turned medium towards the end.
(hide spoiler)]Tears-worthy?
(view spoiler)[Can be quite emotional, especially about the family.
(hide spoiler)]Humor?
(view spoiler)[Some.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite scene?
(view spoiler)[When James first meets Elizabeth's younger siblings.
When Malcolm the Cat finally shows his love for Elizabeth.
Lady Danbury's scenes.
(hide spoiler)]What age level would be appropriate?
(view spoiler)[Mature audience.
(hide spoiler)]
i feel horrid to say that i found this book to be a HUGE dissapointment and far below my expectations if one could imagine :/i loved the idea of the plot,but for some reason i felt almost the 1st half the book just drag,while the second half speed by with just fighting,screaming and dissapointments...For the first time (in my long reading life ! ) I found myself unable to even LIKE ms.quinn's characters while struggling to finish the book..A sad day indeed :(
Just when me and my friends were complaining about the plateau plots of HR's lately, I come across an unread Julia Quinn and then, BAM, I take it back.
There is hope as long as we have such books in our lives.I enjoyed the first half of the Bridgertons series, I loved loved loved all the characters and how their stories were brilliantly written.
I did not however enjoy the last few, as well as the SS Quartet so instead of tainting my thoughts on Ms. Quinn's writing I stopped reading her books.
Go on, read the book.
So if you're looking for a simple sweet read to break up some of the more intense novels that we often pick up I suggest this cute little tale.
For me it's an escape from the everyday mundane, to live in someone else's beautiful, perfect and exotic life for just a moment in time, and for me personally I started reading becasue of stories like these.
So maybe the first line in this review is wrong....maybe it is simple things like this that can make you actually stop, think and remember.
After the lack luster hero in Julia Quinn's Ten Things I Love About You and the bubble head heroine in JQ's To Catch an Heiress, it was a refreshing change to read a JQ book where I actually really liked both the hero and the heroine.
She finds a copy of "How to Marry a Marquis", the early 1800's version of The Rules.James likes being seen for himself and not his title, and Elizabeth is torn because she is falling in love with a man that can't afford to keep her family.
After growing out of Barbara Cartland and working my way through all the slightly outdated 1970's Corgi and Avon Historical romances which were the only books available during those pre-internet days, and every single Historical Georgette Heyer of course, I discovered Julia Quinn and Eloisa James.
Eloisa James annoyed me because the way she wrote her stories felt so wrong, her books read like modern romances set in historical periods, very irritating for a bona fide historical romance reader.
Next to her the couple of Julia Quinn's which I read, seemed, and in hindsight by comparison, quite promising.
Also, the thing about her being clumsy, always smacking her hand on the table and howling in pain about it like a wimp got very annoying very fast.Lastly, if you're going to use a well-known literary quote, make sure you're attributing it to the right person:"She'd read enough Shakespeare to trust the Bard, and if he said it was better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all - she believed him."I usually trust the Bard, too, Julia Quinn...but the fact is that Tennyson actually coined that famous quote, and he did so about 35 years AFTER this story is supposed to be taking place.
Adorable, as always! And, even better, there is plenty of evil-cat humor - my favorite! She looked down. Malcolm, the demon cat was sitting at her feet, staring at her as if she were a kitchen rat."What do you want?"The cat shrugged. Elizabeth hadn't known that a cat could shrug. Uppity cats! bad kitty!So, this book is about James, the Marquis from the last book, bff of Devin. He is an awesome love interest! He comes to help his aunt because she is being blackmailed, and in so doing, he meets hi
Elizabeth hadn't known that a cat could shrug.
He comes to help his aunt because she is being blackmailed, and in so doing, he meets his aunt's young companion, Elizabeth.
She finds a book entitled, "How to Marry a Marquis," and tries to follow the instructions.
But, she has no idea that James is a Marquis because he is pretending to be his aunt's estate manager while investigating her blackmail situation.
So, James, pretending to be poor too, says he will help her in her husband quest.
Of course, Elizabeth falls for the guy she thinks is poor.
Overall rating: 4.5 "How to Marry a Marquis" stars!!!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Our hero James: Before the start of the book, it is alluded to that he was casual with his sexual affairs. Not a womanizer and not a manwhore, but he obviously had sex. He never mentions being with other women in the book, but you know he has been. He only mentio
Overall rating: 4.5 "How to Marry a Marquis" stars!!!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Our hero James: Before the start of the book, it is alluded to that he was casual with his sexual affairs.
He only mentions dating a few women who he knows he could have been happy with if married, but he just didn't feel that spark so other men ended up offering their hands in marriage and snatching them up.
Putus asa karena miskin dan harus membesarkan ketiga adiknya, Elizabeth memutuskan untuk menikah dengan orang kaya demi membiayai sekolah dan kebutuhan mereka. Gajinya sbg pendamping Lady Danbury tidak cukup.  [image error]Pada saat di perpustakaan, dia menemukan buku mereah yg aneh berjudul "How to marry a marquis", tergodalah dia untuk meminjam buku itu.Marquis James Sidwell yg adl keponakan Lady Danbury dipanggil utk menyelidiki pemerasan thd bibi nya dg menyamar sbg petugas properti lady Dan
[image error]Pada saat di perpustakaan, dia menemukan buku mereah yg aneh berjudul "How to marry a marquis", tergodalah dia untuk meminjam buku itu.Marquis James Sidwell yg adl keponakan Lady Danbury dipanggil utk menyelidiki pemerasan thd bibi nya dg menyamar sbg petugas properti lady Danbury.Disini lah banyak kejadian2 lucu antara James yg menyamar jd orang miskin dan Elizabeth yg akhirnya naksir James, tp tdk mau menikahi James krn dia "harus" menikahi org kaya demi adik2nya.
[image error] dan James kena batu nya krn dia terjengkang saat di tinju Lizzie hahahahha...dialog2 nyalucu sekali, membuat membaca nya tidak bosan.
This past few days I’m kinda feeling blue and can’t see myself picking another book to read.
And I’m feeling that I might be experiencing a “book slump.” And I don’t want that so I willed myself to pick any book.
I loved so many things about the book right from the very first page itself.
It didn’t fail to make me happy!I loved both Elizabeth and James immensely.
And as much as I loved James and Elizabeth, the secondary characters were also fantastic!
They don’t actually feel secondary ever!
Another fun and humorous book by Julia Quinn!
Once again, I loved all the characters.
I seriously cannot find fault in the hero or heroine--I thought they were both lovely, charming, and witty.
I also adored the siblings of the Hotchkiss clan--their interactions were so cute.
I just find that JQ puts a smile on my face and makes my worries go away for awhile.
I absolutely love her books and I'm so happy that I loved this one as much as I do the Bridgerton series.
I was so HAPPY that Lady Danbury was in this story!!!
She'll definitely go down as one of my favorite characters ever!
Loved the boxing scene - made me laugh out loud!
Só poderia ser importante na vida dela se ela permitisse." Já é possível afirmar que os livros da pequena saga "Agentes Da Coroa" de Julia Quinn foram as melhores descobertas literárias desse ano e eu estou até agora indignada comigo mesma por não ter pegado essas obras antes.
Estou certa disso.Blake deu de ombros.- Eu também tenho certeza disse pelo menos metade do tempo." O encontro desse quarteto foi de longe meu momento favorito e se Caroline era uma mocinha preciosa demais para esse mundo, Elizabeth merece ser colocada em um vidrinho e protegida a todo custo.
Ella trabaja como dama de compañía de uno de los mejores personajes que ha creado Julia Quinn: la marquesa viuda Lady Danbury, una mujer fuerte, frontal, rica y orgullosa poseedora de Malcolm, un gato obeso con una gran personalidad e ínfulas de rey.Elizabeth decide que ha llegado la hora de casarse por conveniencia para sacar adelante a su familia.
Ella tiene poco para ofrecer más que la conexión con un título noble menor, y es por eso que, sintiéndose tremendamente tonta, decide "tomar prestado" de la biblioteca de Lady Danbury el libro CÓMO CASARSE CON UN MARQUÉS.
James Sidwell, the marquis of Riverdale, comes into his aunt's home, the most wonderful old lady to ever be written in historical romance, to investigate a case of blackmail.
This was a sweet love story, don't let the cliche of Elizabeth's situation stray you, this was a book I read quite easily and enjoyed it a lot.
If you enjoy, like me, reading historical romances, this will not disappoint.
I have to admit, it wasn't as strong as Blake and Caroline's story, but still it was good enough for James and Elizabeth to meet.
Ironically, when she is at her employer's (Lady Danbury) home serving as a lady's companion, Miss Hotchkiss comes across a book, "How to Marry a Marquis." This little red book causes a lot of trouble (amusing trouble).
The Marquis of Riverdale is called by his aunt, Lady Danbury, to go undercover and investigate a blackmail.
If you've read a Quinn romance then Lady Danbury is a character you are fairly familiar with.
'Old?' Lady Danbury hollered." Elisabeth's siblings were adorable and so very amusing.
Thankfully, Elisabeth wasn't that kind of heroine.
Was totally prepared to give this an unexciting 'meh' 3 stars but the silly melodramatic drama and dunderhead of a heroine made it hard to even do that.
And her reaction to finding that stupid book How to Marry a Marquis and trying to hide it like it carries world political secrets was just outrageous and so extreme.
And of course her reaction to finding out James's true identity was so overblown, silly and stupid you would think he murdered her family.
She seemed to care much more about her own pride and imaginary humiliation than seeing to reason or believing in James.
She needs to marry someone with money so that she can support her siblings and send her brother to Eton (to get a gentleman's education), so she borrows the books and ATTEMPTS to apply it to her life.Meanwhile, James Sidwell, Marquis of Riverdale, Lady Danbury's NEPHEW is working for the War Office (predecessor to MI5, the British version of the CIA).
So he comes and poses as James Siddons, Lady Danbury's new estate manager, to help her track down the blackmailer.Well, Elizabeth needs to practice her new behavior on SOMEONE, and who better than the new estate manager, Mr. Siddons?
I loved, loved, loved this regency romance by one of my favorite authors! Young impoverished gentlewoman must marry for money to support her three younger siblings. Working as a paid companion, she finds a how-to book titled "How to Marry a Marquis" in the library of the lady she works for. Little does she know the man she thinks is her employer's estate manager is really a marquis - and he's willing to tutor her! A great screwball comedy romance as only Julia Quinn can do! Loved it! 4.5/5http://ktleyed.blogspot.com/2010/11/h...
Have you read this book? No? Go read it and come back and read this review after. I think I'm going to have to redo my all time favorite book list and put this in it. I laughed and cried and was swept away in their romance. It was perfect.
I enjoyed this book so much!
But why I didn't give this more than 3 stars?
Well, mostly because I was expecting a lot of drama when the moment of truth comes up, yet..
I didn't really feel it.
But overall reading this book reminds me a lot of the nostalgia that I always felt when i read Julia Quinn's books.
It got me addicted all over again!
The Her is not as rake-ish as I thpought he would be.
He's an overall kind gentleman.
He also treated the heroine quite tenderly and caring, despite the fact that he suspected her for something something.
4.5 starsThis was the first book I read by this author. It was long ago – the book was published in 1999 – but it was a marvelous introduction. Ever since this book, I have been buying Julia Quinn’s regency romances as soon as they came out. I enjoyed most of them but I approached the re-reading of this novel with trepidation. What if it didn’t live up to my memories? I shouldn’t have worried.  How to Marry a Marquis  was as good at re-reading as I remembered. The story centers around two protag
4.5 starsThis was the first book I read by this author.
James, Marquis of Riverdale, is Lady Danbury’s nephew, and she asks him to come visit her to take care of her problem: someone is blackmailing her.
Elizabeth must marry money to provide for her siblings.
James, as an estate manager, doesn’t have any money, never mind that the Marquis of Riverdale is extremely wealthy.
Fortunately, Elizabeth discovers a handy manual in Lady Danbury’s library – a little red book 
I liked both James and Elizabeth.
I liked Lady Danbury.
I liked the fragments of the book 
Of course they are joined by a cast of odd characters, such as Lady Danbury who adds touches of old people humor with her loud cane, sarcastic remarks, and her giant demon cat Malcom who she swears is the nicest kitty in all the world XD There's Elizabeth's meddling sister Susan, and her adorable brother Lucus, who thinks that it's blasphamy to have raw toast, and let's not forget little Jane who will forever daydream about having her hand kissed by a gentleman.Unlike the first book, this story is more centered around drama and romance.
I LOVE YOU SO.My review of How to Marry a Marquis could easily be an ode to Lady Danbury, who is one of my favorite side characters EVER.
Lady Danbury, though she makes her introduction here, is in many of the Bridgerton and Smythe-Smith books.
Lady Danbury is James's aunt, and thus, when he comes to investigate the *dun dun dun* BLACKMAILER, he meets Elizabeth, who's in desperate need of a husband so she can support her three siblings.How to Marry a Marquis has even more glimmers of what I've come to love about JQ's books: family antics.
Because FAMILY ANTICS.Back to James and Elizabeth.
