https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13895.The_Fires_of_Heaven
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.For being such a long book (nearly 1000 pages in my trade paperback copy), amazingly little happens in The Fires of Heaven, and this is why so many readers have abandoned this otherwise interesting story.
It felt like the proverbial "one step forward, two steps back!"I managed to stick with it, though, only because I was listening to it on audiobook (and therefore only half listening while I accomplished something else at the same time) and because I wanted to write a review.
That's a shame, because the story itself is very good -- but it's just too hard to extract it from the dross.Read more Robert Jordan book reviews at Fantasy literature.
The Fires of Heaven bored me to tears. Nothing happened. My favourite character wasn’t even present. I feel like the story hasn’t progressed since The Shadow Rising. It's 900+ pages of nothingness! The problem with epic fantasy is that is can easily become too long. It’s usually filled with big descriptive passages, history and lore with a huge cast of characters in order to fully illustrate the world. And I usually love it, as I have done with books in this series, but the story needs to move f
I feel like the story hasn’t progressed since The Shadow Rising.
And I usually love it, as I have done with books in this series, but the story needs to move forward for these elements not to feel superfluous.
If I had the time, and the patience, I could find paragraphs and passages from the first four books that were almost identical to those printed here.
Although toward the end of this book something has clearly changed to alter their relationship forever, I still found myself growing bored of their repetitive interactions and conversations.
It follows a very similar pattern: Moraine advises Rand.
Fifth book in the series and I must say Jordan is still keeping things interesting.
I was very sad throughout the book because of it.Elayne, Nynaeve, Aviendha and Rand, more than made up for Perrin’s absence here though I must say I only liked Rand here.
Surprise of the book for me was Mat. He really came out of Rand’s shadow in this book.
She has been my favorite since book 1.
And I will admit graciously that she drives me mad sometimes but she is one of the strongest characters in the series so far.
What I like to call Volume 1 in the "Women Hating Men" trilogy.
At almost no point in these three books did women interacting with men consist of anything beyond: insulting men, assaulting men, sniffing at men, or thinking about how stupid men are compared to all the omniscient women.
I almost didn't finish this book because of all the negative energy towards men.Lessons I learned from this trilogy.1) It is always a man's fault.
And the greatest army the Westlands have seen in thousands of years emerge from the Waste, as the clans of the Aiel cross the Spine of the World at the command of He Who Comes With The Dawn.The Fires of Heaven is unfortunately not as interesting as previous instalments in the Wheel of Time series.
So there were certainly great parts included in this book as well.The ending was definitely not as good as the one in The Shadow Rising, but neither would anyone expect it to be.
And for the first time in a while, I'm very much looking forward to reading the next book in this series.Wheel of Time reviews:#1 
But she does get to have a battle with Mogadine and that is pretty awesome.Birgetta - The one female character that I loved through this entire book is more in the fight than I ever thought she’d be.Mat - FINALLY DOES SOMETHING….I feel like I’ve been waiting forever for him to become more than a man that only gambles and chases skirts around.
I enjoyed her chapters traveling with a deposed Suane the most and I hope she makes it to Rand to have her shot soon.There are some great surprises in this book but I liked the last one just a little more.
This is an amazing Epic Fantasy full of excitement, drama, wonderful as well as ridiculous situations, very flawed main characters, and a feeling of enchantment which is almost unattainable for most authors...
But despite the infuriating cat fighting and frustrating stubbornness they all exhibited at times, this is still an amazing, BRILLIANT, and addictive read which should be read by EVERY Fantasy fan!!!!I wish you all Happy Reading and may you find the books which make you feel the way this series makes me feel!!!!
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
It took me 24 years later to read 'The Fires of Heaven'.I am so please to come back reading 'The Wheel of Time'.I love this book a lot same as I love the first four books of The Wheel of Time.
I would recommend these people who are fans of fantasy to read 'The Wheel of Time' series.I only read five books of 'The Wheel of Time' this year.
I hope I will complete 'The Wheel of Time' in 2018.
Full review to come, but for now, here are some random observations:The book started out strong, with those tricky Forsaken up to their shenanigans, which is always fun to watch.But as Rand and company traveled without getting anywhere, things got slower......and slower......and sllllllllloooooooowwwwwwwer!But then Nynaeve and Elayne met a circus menagerie, which was really cool!And the Forsaken started causing trouble again, so my interest was once again piqued.
That's a lot of pages!
In this book all of the Forsaken plot against The Dragon Reborn practically in broad daylight, high lords and ladies in different kingdoms pursue their own interests - the Dark One be damned, and the troubles in the White Tower split the Aes Sedai into two fractions.
The interesting part about the latter is that I counted exactly two (arguably three) full Aes Sedai who try to support The Dragon Reborn with only one of them - Moiraine - being able to actively do it.
In fact, she mentioned several times that the only two reasons she became Aes Sedai are to help him and to learn healing; I can support and understand both.
Like all the rest of the Wheel of Time books this was an enjoyable and engaging read.
That left Rand and the pairing of Nynaeve and Elayne as the main POV characters.
Their journey was lengthy and while this was not the best book for Nynaeve as a character, she was a little too crazy at times, I did always enjoy her POV segments.
Min, Siuan, Mat, Morgase, and Egwene all had supporting roles in the story.
I loved the addition of Siuan and Morgase as POV characters.
Mat was an ass for the majority of the book, but had a few good moments towards the end.
It's funny, because if you read other's reviews of this book, you'll notice that folks start to split into two camps.
They don't like the fact that Jordan is "getting all epic on your ass" in this continuing study of the adventures of our characters.
They don't like the fact that there are 1239724897923489084 more books after this one in the series.I'm first-camping it.
Yep.I personally love the fact that I'm not finished with this book and done with the series.
I'd say "Keep 'em coming", but Robert Jordan died and the 12th book is probably being written by someone else, so that phrase isn't likely to be crazy-fulfilled.
And while some of the male protagonists seemed passive, merely reacting to the world around them rather than making proactive choices, Nynaeve, Egwene and Elayne at times drove the plot, making decisions and bringing the fight to the bad guys.But in this book, Jordan relies more heavily on Nynaeve’s point of view, and that sucks much of the fun from the story.
Even some of the plot developments late in the book are overshadowed by Nynaeve’s personality, and that’s too bad because Jordan moves the story forward and takes it to some interesting places.
The way I would consider this book is like this:Start (first 200 pages) : slow, very dry and missing that touch of magicMiddle (200-400 pages): picked up the pace but a lot of filler content focusing on politicisingEnd (400 - 900 pages): the crucial elements fell into place, although they took their timeSadly that's probably Robert Jordan's major flaw as a writer.
However that all said he is incredibly compulsive as a writer in his Wheel of Time novels.I really don't know what else I should say about this book.
I'm sorry, but by this point, if I had to read once more about "smoothed faced" ageless women (and insert many other repeated phrases of your choice here), I was going to lose my mind. I kept reading the books for the sake of completion, but by book 5, I was rapidly losing patience and interest. I think these books suffered from the syndrome of many long-running book (and TV) series--the lack of an overall cohesive plotline and the presence of far too many characters to keep active in an otherwise entertaining and creatively built world.
On hold at 55%. I got sick of seeing it on my currently reading shelf lol.
The Wheel of Time series represents, for me, the perfect example of a guilty pleasure in the world of fantasy.This series is not actually written very well.
Robert Jordan was not a very good wordsmith, and he really only knew how to say and describe things one way.
Many people also love and adore these books, and will forever place The Wheel of Time series upon their list of all-time favorite books.
Either way, you'll have exposed yourself to one of the most famous fantasy series of all time.
Executive Summary: I liked this a lot more on a second read than I did on my first.Audiobook: Another fantastic job by Michael Kramer and Kate Reading. Full Review I really liked Wheel of Time as a whole on my first read through, but I felt like things slow down a lot during the middle books. On my first read Perrin was my favorite character and Nynaeve annoyed me for much of the series.This book had no Perrin in it whatsoever. Probably because much of the last book focused on him. It also had a
On my first read Perrin was my favorite character and Nynaeve annoyed me for much of the series.This book had no Perrin in it whatsoever.
That said, the things I came to appreciate about her later in the series are more apparent to me on my reread and so far I don't find her nearly as I annoying as I recall.I also really like Mat, who became my favorite character at some point later in the series.
I'm really enjoying his parts of the early books a lot more on my reread as well.
For one thing, grown women going around strapping other grown women on the backside?
Considering that about half, if not more, of this tome is dedicated to the female characters, there is a lot of that kind of thing going on.
These books are pretty long already, but having your patience strained on so many different levels seems unfair.On the other hand, despite the marked absence of Perrin, the bits with Rand and Mat were really good.
I am curious to see how things are going to play out, with so many different pieces on the board.
Another solid entry in the WoT series. Minor quibbles here and there, but otherwise highly enjoyable fantasy.SPOILERS PEOPLE.Highlights: (view spoiler)[- ♪ Da, da, dum dum, dum - ♪♫ another one bites the dust! Forsaken, that is. - Padan Fain gets reunited with his long lost love. And then disappears for the rest of the book.- Morgase is pronounced dead. o_O Like anyone fell for that Mr Jordan.- Mat’s BATTLEMASTER © skills are revealed.- Bye bye Couladin- Rahvin kills Mat, Asmodean & Aviendha
Another solid entry in the WoT series.
Minor quibbles here and there, but otherwise highly enjoyable fantasy.SPOILERS PEOPLE.Highlights: (view spoiler)[-	♪ Da, da, dum dum, dum - ♪♫ another one bites the dust!
Forsaken, that is.
-	Padan Fain gets reunited with his long lost love.
o_O Like anyone fell for that Mr Jordan.-	Mat’s BATTLEMASTER © skills are revealed.-	Bye bye Couladin-	Rahvin kills Mat, Asmodean & Aviendha.
WHAT???-	Siuan vs Gareth.-	Salidar road trip.-	Lanfear LOSES.
So point of view I suppose?-	Nynaeve vs Moghedien escalates -	A surprise trip to Seanchan.-	Rand.
Aviendha.
I cannot speak highly enough of this series.
Its sweeping epic storytelling just blows so many other fantasy series out of the water.
This is the fifth book in the Wheel of Time series.
There's a lot to take in, which is to be expected from this series, but instead of it being daunting, it's actually refreshing.
The story takes its time to unfold, so you get to have a full understanding of all the characters and their motivations.This is a must read series for any fan of epic fantasy series!
4.5/5 stars
Poooop joooookes.Still, for every thing in the book that went on too long (like all the focus on the traveling menagerie, Nynaeve's obsession with people making her wear low-cut dresses, the ceaseless bickering between all the female characters, and men and women being up each other's butts all the time), there was actual plot movement and character development.
There is also progress for Rand, Mat, Moiraine, and Egwene (though none for Elayne, as Nynaeve takes center stage here) that alleviates some of my concerns with the way things were going for those characters.
It was more that, in knowing what is necessary to defeat the Dark One, that certain thing has to happen.
I am hopeful to see more of Perrin in the next novel.
I don’t think about it all the time, and I enjoy the people that I’m with right now, and they are fab.
getting to know Perrin so much in the previous book connected me enough to hold on and hope I get to see him more in the future.
I wasted no time in picking up the next novel in the series.
The thing is, if CNN took out the "Situation Room" (somebody really screwed up not naming it the Bat Cave, by the way) or if Fox failed to deliver a "fair and balanced" right-wing spin, both stations would lose their audience.Formulas can help writers to gain an audience, but they can also constrain.Some readers that left the "Wheel of Time" series did so after reading The Fires of Heaven, the fifth book.
I'm particularly fond of the time spent in Ebou Dar and a couple of other things that are still in development, but, yeah, we are well on our way.I'm having a hard time coming up with plot points that don't give too much away, so let's talk about some of the characters.
There's also Valan Luca and his Traveling Menagerie!I've avoided saying much about it b/c I can't even mention my second favorite character yet (view spoiler)[BIRGITTE!!
Valan Luca's Traveling Menagerie:A tall, dark-haired man strode out of the camp, of all things in this heat wearing a red silk cloak that he flourished as he made an elegant bow.
I feel like the Aiel are Jordan’s most interesting and detailed creation, as far as worldbuilding goes (with the Seanchan coming second), and that alone makes this part of the storyline more enjoyable for me, even when things are slow (and before they begin their march into Cairhien, it’s slow as hell.
She really does seem good at this, as opposed to other characters that Jordan has to tell us are good at this, despite all evidence to the contrary (Forsaken, I am looking in your direction)Speaking of the Forsaken (and this concludes the ‘good’ portion of the review) in Fires of Heaven it’s Rahvin’s turn to fight and lose to Rand.
Ne ara bittin😭
The Wheel of Time weaves complex plots in each book, but the main plot centers on a young country boy named Rand Al’Thor.
His friends become intricately involved in the plot, and new characters come to them by attractions of fate, called the Wheel of Time.
Also, Rand gets three or four women waiting to be with him, as well as the psycho-super-terrifying lady, named Lanfear – so polygamy emerges as a theme also.
The story has too many sub-plots and themes and cool things to write in a review without writing too much.
BEST. YET. Also, pull your fkn head in, Lan. Ugh.
