https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31751571-since-we-fell
And I say this as a fan of several of Lehane's books.The later chapters of Since We Fell are really quite ridiculous.
Lehane drops huge hints earlier in the story that something is not quite right so the big "oh my gosh" probably won't come as a surprise, and one hint is only subtle if you’re American (view spoiler)[or don’t use the date format dd/mm/yyyy (hide spoiler)]I think, perhaps, that many feel this book gains its strength not from its thrills and surprises, but from its character exploration, but I can’t say I liked anyone.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.Dennis Lehane is truly one of my most favorite contemporary authors. He electrified me the minute I read the first Kenzie-Gennaro mystery (and all of the others that followed) and dazzled me with  Mystic River , and while not every subsequent novel has been a home run, the indisputable fact is, I love the way he writes.Needless to say, I pounced on  Since We Fell , his newest novel, practically at midnight the day it came out. I've decided that how you feel about this boo
takes a while to build up steam, but it's still a well-told, compelling story about a woman driven to uncover secrets, first about her father, and then about the news stories she covers.
It's also a story about how an unexpected relationship might not save you, but it may give you the courage you need to save yourself.Lehane's storytelling is in fine form here, and once he kicks the book into thriller mode, the engine just takes off, leaving you breathless at times.
was released, I met Lehane at a reading and book signing.
This goes on for so long that it fools you into thinking that the book is more of a character drama/romance type of thing instead of a straight-up mystery/thriller, and I was actually enjoying this part.After the turn we know is coming happens it seems like we’re in the territory of a Lifetime movie, but the book still had its head above water at this point.
But the idea that Brian sets up the whole elaborate thing of having Rachel follow clues to the point where she’ll ‘kill’ him, and then fake his own death solely as a shock treatment to cure her panic attacks is a bridge too far as well as just goddamn ridiculous.
4.5 Stars* (rounded up).“Since We Fell” by Dennis Lehane is the story of Rachel Childs.
Then one day, Rachel discovered that things were not as they seemed.
It became a life of terror, deceit and insane intrigue – all of which made my breath catch in my throat and caused my chest to get tight.For me, none of this was surprising, for Rachel Childs was a woman who grew up in a house of lies, experiencing familial dysfunction.
Rachel is an interesting, multi-faceted character.
Rachel Childs.
Just no for me. Not this one
Eventually after her mothers death Rachel sets out to search for her birth father.
Eventually she figures out her father's identity, only to be left with more questions and loose ends, which only make her pervasive issues with anxiety worse.
The two eventually get into a relationship, making Rachel think for once things are going her way and will be okay.
Then when Brian begins to do small things that don't quite add up, Rachel can't help but begin to question their whole life together, leading her to confront her own issues and anxieties, especially her fear of abandonment.
What stands out more than anything to me is the creation of "Rachel Childs".
In the same way that Lisbeth Salander is synonymous with the Steig Larsson's Millennium Series ....Rachel Childs is with "Since We Fall".NOT that these two women are alike - or behave the same -but she's one hell of a fascinating female protagonist.
I replied Dennis Lehane's new book -"Rachel Childs".
but it's clear once finishing this thriller.
Through it all -- with unique supporting characters - is Rachel Childs!!!
She is sensitive, often contemplating her own issues.....( fears, pessimism, loss, trust, and love)....As we take a journey with Rachel.....
Suspenseful - sensitive -psychological thriller!!!!
Rachel has the world in her grasp, a successful journalism career, marriage to an equally successful man, and then in a very public way it and she falls apart.
Until she reconnects with Brian......The first part of this book is slowly paced as we get to know Rachel, her search for the birth father she never knew, her career, marriage and her breakdown and it's after effects.
Then this story does almost a complete 360 and takes off like a runaway train, morphs into a whole different thing.
Not that I wasn't entertained, I was, this is a very readable story but in my readers mind, too much didn't hang together.
The story was not very remarkable, but it kept my interest. I didn't love it but I didn't hate it either. The authors writing style was fantastic.
The first half was good, but more of a stream-of-consciousness style of writing that is not at all what fans have come to expect from Dennis Lehane.
It's totally worth it imo.Unimportant side note: Is it just me, or are his books written like they should all be movies?
I love this about his writing style, and it makes me wish that this would become a movie, like some of his other books.
The second book in the series, Live By Night, became a movie in 2016.
Also, while I thought the female protagonist was very well-developed, I wish he'd gone much deeper because she may be his best protagonist ever, certainly for the first 40% of the novel.I won't provide a description of the characters or plot because it would likely ruin the story.
The good poets welds his theft into a whole of feeling which is unique, utterly different from that from which it was torn." By this definition, even if one thought that Dennis Lehane borrowed from a certain director's plot twists and/or endings in writing this novel, Lehane still "weld[ed] this...
It pains me to do this, but I am going to have to go with two stars. I fell in love with Dennis Lehane's writing ever since I first read A Drink Before the War, but this one just didn't do it for me. The first half of this book is bogged down with so much back story that you have no idea what the point of the book is. The second half of the book is a bad Katherine Heigl movie. Period.
Other times, so much emphasis is put on shocking the reader that the characters don’t feel like actual people.
Or, it can go the opposite way and the thing that’s meant to shock us is telegraphed so clearly that it sucks all the tension out of the story.So, yeah, I don’t read a lot of straight-up thrillers.
It did help increase the tension in the second half of the book—Rachel doesn’t trust her perception of events due to her mental health, but it never feels like a cheap trick to pull the rug out from under the reader.The actual thriller elements were pretty solid, too.
Her mother, Elizabeth Childs, died in a car accident leaving everything to Rachel except her father's name.
Rachel wanted to know who her father was as she thought somehow knowing about his identity would fill the hole in her heart.
She married him and he helped her in facing her fears and brought her out in the world.
But things suddenly picks up after she finds about Brian's lies and we get the trademark Lehane story.
Lehane kept throwing secrets and lies at me, and poor me failed at every turn as all my guesses were proved wrong as the story progressed.
By chance she meets her future second husband and the love of her life, Brian, who slowly helps turn things around for her.
Then the second half is gloriously pure trashy airport thriller as Rachel gets caught up in the mystery of the husband she never knew.
Lehane knows exactly how to hook the reader and take them on a breathlessly thrilling ride, executing the second half of this book in the genre style flawlessly.
But that structure also plays into the duality theme of the story: Rachel is looking for a man she didn’t know, her father, and then she’s doing the same in the second half with her husband.
He usually has an engaging story, lively pacing and dialog, and, above all, character development that elucidates human nature.
We spend a long build-up to the opening premise set up in the first lines of the book:On a Tuesday in May, in her thirty-fifth year, Rachel shot her husband dead.
She got them confused sometimes.Overall, the book makes a satisfactory beach read, in the sense of subjecting yourself to a lot of clever twists and turns in your expectations and choices for the main characters.

★★★Since We Fell encompasses two parts. They aren't labeled but you'll know immediately when the switch occurs. I had to investigate my library-rented audiobook to ensure there hadn't been a mistake. It's that kind of switch. Part one is well-written character, family, and culture/class development. It's slow but good. The second part breaks into a mysterious barrel-roll of a thriller. It's also good. It just doesn't flow well from part one to part two...not at all in my opinion. It's like they'
★★★½Since We Fell encompasses two parts.
They aren't labeled but you'll know immediately when the switch occurs.
It's that kind of switch.
It's slow but good.
It's also good.
It's like they're two different books.
After all is said and done, I can see how the two parts compliment each other but I felt at a disadvantage during my reading experience.
I can say that the thriller portion of this book was my favorite.
Although I have watched many adaptations of this author's work, Since We Fell was my first Dennis Lehane book that I have read.
But when she miraculously encounters Brian, an old acquaintance, the couple begins a sweet relationship that eventually leads to marriage.
Although Brian’s work requires him to travel often, he is so patient and their marriage is so solid, Rachel begins to slowly venture out again.
This book is one part character study and one part literary thriller/ psychological suspense.
Combining the character study with the literary prose, wrapping it up inside a dark and twisty, yet very stylish and polished caper -like thriller, is quite a unique experience.
If you like crime drama, or smart literary thrillers, you can't go wrong with Dennis Lehane.
Buddy read with Anuradha, Poonam, Rohisa and AsgharSomeone tell me why I stayed up until after 2am to finish this???
To write a proper review or not???
#AmbivalenceCentral I guess I will never be a fan of the thriller/mystery genre.
Or maybe it was this book which I found utterly ridiculous...At least I discovered this cheesy song which I can't stop playing: Since I Fell for You - Lenny Welchthree stars....maybe???
Or maybe not....
I'm assured by others in my buddy read that it's not just me and my ambivalence towards this genre but that the book is indeed dull!!!two stars...maybe!!!
Video review will be up soon :D
More to the point, given her fragile psychological history, can Rachel finally trust her own instincts?
The answers take shape by way of getting to know the ins and outs of the minds of several characters - primarily Rachel and Brian - and are revealed through many twists, turns and outright surprises that kept me intrigued enough to not want to put the book down till I'd reached the last page.An afterword: After I finish any book and my own review, I usually check reviews from other readers (that doesn't apply, of course, to the advance copies I get in exchange for a review).
That, in turn, piqued my curiosity as to why; what I learned is that apparently, this book veers from the author's "standard" approach to writing - a diversion not appreciated by a number of his faithful readers.
Absolutely yes.Suffice to say it is a thriller with its cast of nefarious souls.
However in this bunch there were characters that you just loved to hate.
Thinking like a Pollyanna is just not within the mantra of most people and certainly the characters in this novel were no Pollyanna's!So, I have to thank Mr Lehane for a fun filled couple of days while I went on this adventure with Rachel and an assorted group of nefarious people and situations.
Buddy Read with Nameeta, Rohisa, Anuradha and Emer "Safety is an illusion we sell to children to help them sleep." What a potential to make into an amazing story but sadly my expectations on this one were crushed into dust. It was sorely disappointing. The main reason was that I expected soo much more from this story having recently read Shutter Island by the same author!!Well this has been classified as a Suspense Thriller but there is nothing thrilling about this book and the suspense bit of i
What a potential to make into an amazing story but sadly my expectations on this one were crushed into dust.
The main reason was that I expected soo much more from this story having recently read Shutter Island by the same author!!Well this has been classified as a Suspense Thriller but there is nothing thrilling about this book and the suspense bit of it is really a shame.
I actually considered giving this a 1 star but that would be unfair as the writing is decent and the problem was My Expectation vs.
Hence giving this a 2 stars.
I've been a hardcore Dennis Lehane fan since the first Kenzie novels and I wanted to like this book a lot, but I cannot in good conscience bring myself to give it more than three stars.
Have a normal person discover someone who's larger than life, but strangely enough Lehane is too good for that idea?
I believe lots of people will like this book more than I do, but I doubt that long-time Dennis Lehane fans such as me will have a stronger reaction.
Your understanding of Rachel as a three dimensional character will enhance your overall interpretations of her in the second half of the book where the speed limit is 55 mph and the thrills and action speed up to over 100 mph.I don't want to give away any spoilers here as to ruin your reading experience.
This novel doesn't engage in the usual prototype of psychological thrillers that we have been bombarded with lately.The novel is both literary and thrilling at the same time."Since We Fell" is Dennis Lehane's writing at his very best.
You know that metaphor about killing a frog by placing it in tepid water and then slowly increasing the temperature until it comes to a boil? That's what this book felt like. Dennis Lehane builds the tension and the twists so slowly and then all of a sudden it is past your bedtime and you can't believe the ride this book has taken you on
The first half of this book was all about Rachel and her parents, as she is trying to solve some unanswered questions after her mother dies, while becoming a successful reporter, struggling with the reality of some of the stories she has to cover.
But after that was all established, the story took a different shape and romance made it sweet and comfortable…..until….I’ll quote from the book cover,” Sucked into a conspiracy thick with deception, violence, and possibly madness, Rachel must find the strength within herself to conquer unimaginable fears and mind-altering truths”.
This book definitely held my attention and then I started to see what it boiled down to for the main character.
This book is a heck of a twist and if you think you see something coming, get ready cause no.
Oh things might seem to calm for a while, but that's just what you think, and Lehane knows how to surprise.
So you can expect twists and surprises and emotional tug as you follow Rachel in her journey to not only fight debilitating conditions but family lies and everything in between as she tries to make a life for herself.
I'm waiting for another Mystic River. Unfortunately, this isn't it. Since We Fell begins slowly as the main character is developed and picks up at the midpoint. The last third of the book requires the reader to suspend belief in really big ways. The dialogue even becomes stilted and just doesn't resonate. I'll keep waiting.
