https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/873195.Han_Solo_at_Stars_End
He slowly became a "good man."Unfortunately, much of that was undermined in Return of the Jedi when Solo began to make decisions that made no sense at all -- like giving Lando, his betrayer, the Falcon, behaving like an idiot schoolboy in his relationship with Leia, and behaving like a knob everywhen else (and it didn't help at all that Lucas had Solo dispatch Boba Fett through sheer luck rather than ruthlessness or skill).
The message of Return of the Jedi (particularly when coupled with Lucas's later decision to have Greedo shoot first) was that Han Solo was weak, and he'd always been a good man.
I read this book the week before seeing Solo.The rest of the efforts to write Han Solo in movies, books and comic were writing about General Solo.
Solo as a movie rightly writes a character who is the foundation of both those sides of the character we know now, what makes this book special is the author Brian Daley had only the super rogue Han solo to go off of.Han and Chewie are a little more simple in this book but it doesn't suffer for it.
I like the artifact nature of the sorta-out of date Star wars book.
It's not like starting up your Honda and cruising on down the road; the Millennium Falcon is basically a cross between a warplane and a battleship, and Daley seems to set those expectations better.This Han Solo is also more harsh and abrasive than the one seen in the Crispin books: here he is very clear that he's only looking out for number one, and he means it from chapter 1 on.
This is a great side-story from the old days of the Star Wars galaxy before the gaps were all filled in by episodes I-III, heck before the Empire Struck Back or there was a Return of a Jedi, the Clone Wars were just an event from the past that were referred to from time to time, but not really understood by the fan/reader/viewer.
Man, I loved that stuff back in the day and this story took me back to the adventure and romance of that far, far away Star Wars galaxy a long time ago.
Brian Daley had to write his Han Solo stories outside of the traditional Star Wars universe, so he moves the characters to a wing of the galaxy where another brutal military regime, the Corporate Sector Authority, rules with an iron fist.
Writing before Episode V had been released, he had to go far enough away in time (Solo's past) and place (another sector of the galaxy) to not mess with the yet-to-be-completed canon.
But the book itself is a fine action-adventure story, taking place on a number of inventive worlds with some surprisingly vivid auxiliary characters, especially the slow-talking robot Bollux and his "brain" companion, Blue Max.But what really makes the novel work is the way Daley handles the Solo character.
Still a fun read after all of these years but different than the Post-Expanded Universe books because it's mostly disconnected from the rest of the Star Wars Universe.
While it does examine their pre-Luke Skywalker life, it makes no references to anything familiar other than the two characters and their beloved ship, making it markedly different than most other Star Wars tie-ins.
Still, the character do feel like those we grew to love on screen and they do have fun banter and action adventures.
Altogether good reads that fit in nicely beside A.C. Crispin's deeper examination of Solo's early years and meeting Chewbacca.
It's just that despite the amazing writing style and its cool, action-packed elements, occasionally it wasn't very engaging.
Plus, the action-packed elements are still there, and the story definitely gets more engaging.
Something cool that appears here (and maybe in other parts of the story because right now, I can't remember) is how Daley can smoothly put a scene from a character's perspective without making it confusing.
Plus, the action-packed scenes are still amazing, the writing style is as vivid as it gets, and there's a satisfying yet suspenseful conclusion that makes me want to read more from the series.No doubt, I like this book.
After having just read Splinter of the Mind's Eye, this was a breath of fresh air. Loads of fun, action packed and Han Solo even admits he's the kind of guy who likes to SHOOT FIRST and ask questions later. Unfortunately, it bogged down a bit at the end and the climax felt a little too ridiculous, but still fun and worthy of any fan's time for a quick adventure. I'm sure this will be better than the upcoming Solo movie.2.5 stars
It really rates 3.5 stars but Goodreads doesn’t believe in half stars apparently. It’s fun, it’s pulp, it’s briskly written. Brian Daley was a gem, and he had a great grasp of why the audience loved Han Solo.
by Brian Daley, published in 1979.Yes, I’m back on the Star Wars train and this ride by Brian Daley is certainly fast, wild and true to the flavour of the Star Wars Universe.This is the first book by Brian Daley in the Han Solo Adventures, written not long after the first movie hit the big screens way back in 1977.It features Han Solo, of course, as well as Chewbacca and the Millennium Falcon.
Granted, I don't have the time to read as much as I would like, but if this was able to hold my interest at all it wouldn't have taken more than a few days to get through.
Honestly, I'm trying to write this only a couple days after finishing the book, and I'm finding that it made such a small impression on me that I really can't remember much of anything specific other than it being dreadful.
When I was able to force myself to plug through a few more pages, my mind wandered constantly because the story was completely incapable of holding my attention.
Additionally, don't take a book like this too seriously...This was a surprisingly fun, believable read, particularly given that the author only had the character development from the original Star Wars to go on.
Any self-respecting Star Wars fan looking for a unique, quick, fun read should avail themselves of this book, without self-cannibalizing the experience fretting over the minutiae of trivia which is often the bread-and-butter of their enjoyment.
i have original hard covers of these books and i love to read them from time to time.they are not really star wars, it seems more to me that the author had some sci fi stories that werent really going to sell, and he added han solo and chewbacca to the mix to make it interesting.
its in a place that is run by something like the trade federation in phantom menace.
the company runs everything.anyway they are still fun to read and shit its han solo.
way better than the more "star wars correct" further adventures of lando calrissian
This story , I've read was written right after Star Wars came out and before Empire Strikes back.
So it doesn't have knowledge of everything that happens, although I would think anyone who watched Star Wars knew Han and Leia would end up together, or maybe that's just me.Anyway, this is the story of one of Han and Chewbacca's adventures.
They started off trying to make money but ended up saving lives.
The parts where Han found out that they took Chewie and that he had to leave Chewie.
Rip my heart out.
And the droids?
Aww so adorable.
Love Bollux!
I just love the cover on this one!
I have the 1981 version and it is so vintage anime-esque!"Hey, I happen to LIKE to shoot first" - Han Solo.This book is fun, rompy, 80's, and has some great action set-pieces.
I'd love to see this made as an animated movie.
The writing is a little bit amateur, but the characterizations are correct and the setting is done well.
This book goes in to establish Han's background as an imperial fighter pilot and how he ruined his career by standing up for a slave.
I recommend this book as a breeze-read that'll last an afternoon at best.
I'm surprised how long it took me to get through this. I found the first half choppy, hard to follow, hard to settle into. It just wasn't doing much for me. By the second half, things picked up as the story kicked into gear, the supporting cast developed into some neat characters, and it became a really fun heist adventure with some big action and sharp laughs. Hopefully I'll have a better time with the next two.
This was another example of Star Wars fiction published before The Empire Strikes Back took the Star Wars series to the next level. There's nothing earth-shattering here, but it's just a fun romp in the Star Wars universe from a time when Star Wars novels didn't have to add to or comply with a burgeoning and bloated Expanded Universe canon. Great fun.
I'm going to give this book a 3 because it is an enjoyable, if forgetable, read. The following two books in the series are also readable but got repetitious pretty fast.
Now that I'm starting to get into some of the older books, though, I see that I've made a mistake.In Han Solo at Stars' End, one of the plot points revolve around Doc, a mechanic for criminals and other scoundrels, having gone missing.
In a way, it's neat to see how a later author uses an earlier story to support their own, but in another, I feel like I'm missing a lot of other Easter eggs by reading these all out of order.The book itself is okay.
It takes place in the expanded Star Wars universe but it follows everyone's favorite Smuggler: Han Solo.
It perfectly captures the wit and the tactful charm that Han Solo had in "A New Hope." Whats even more interesting is that it takes place in the Corporate Sector Authority (not within the Empire's Grasp).
The whole series books #1 through #3 take place from 3 years BBY to 1 year BBY (BBY is Before the Battle of Yavin for any of you who aren't Star Wars nerds).
If you are an avid Star Wars fan or a newcomer to the Legends Universe; I highly recommend reading this and the other two books in the saga.
This was a good book.I hate to say this, but, this was the first Star Wars book I ever read.I am a super fan.
The book had a good plot and kept me reading.
The characters were familiar but it was good to read a story that was not part of the film series.
I'm only sharing one quote from the book with you...
'It's lucky I know you're a mercenary, Solo.
It's lucky I know you only flew that Headhunter to protect the Falcon, not to protect lives.
I read this less because I'm a Star Wars fan (I'm not at all) than because I just needed a hit of nostalgia and wanted to take a trip back to the sort of book I read when I was young (I read one of the other Daley books when I was 12.) This novel was written when there was only one film in existence, so there isn't a lot of lore to drag the story down or limit the author.
There's also none of that Jedi stuff, just a single passing reference, so it's more science fiction and not science fantasy like the films, or more recent spin-offs (I imagine).
The reality, though, is that HAN SOLO AT STAR'S END is actually a legit sci-fi novel with a fun plot, great concepts, clever writing, and terrific world-building.
No, the story details don't really gel with actual STAR WARS canon, but who cares about canon now that it's being determined by a bunch of Disney execs?
I'm 98% certain that Disney would've been better off to simply adapt this novel into next year's Han Solo "solo" movie rather than starting over from scratch.
I seriously doubt director Ron Howard will be able to give us anywhere near the bang for our buck that HAN SOLO AT STARS' END provides.
"What value is there in existence without purpose?"Okay, so I'm not a HUGE Star Wars fan, but a friend of mine is and he's extremely butt-hurt that all the books he read are no longer considered cannon.
SO he gave me a set of three Han Solo adventures to read before Solo: A Star Wars Story comes out.Honestly, this reads like what it is: fanfiction written by a Star Wars/Han Solo fan.
It's interesting to see this adventure of Han and Chewie, but the writing itself is mediocre at best, boring at worst.I'm still planning on reading the other two stories though.
I’m reading some old Han Solo stories as I wait for the Solo Star Wars story movie this May. I had a hard time deciding what I thought of this book.
That all changes after a series of events leaves the Millennium Falcon in need of repairs, and the payment is a mission he would rather not take.
Before long, Han is swept in a mission with humanitarian goals, and Han is Han, so....Parts of this book worked really well as a Star Wars story.
Regardless, I enjoyed it, and I’d give it 3 1/2 stars.

A fun novella adventure story, nothing terribly remarkable, mostly just "Han gets himself and a bunch of people into a scrape and back out again," but it's fun. Plenty of action, a dumb mini-romance and neatly tied-up in a little bow at the end. A little of Han's fancy piloting skills, a view into his "I don't care about anybody.... well, at least I won't admit it" while saving the day, and some of his innovations to make the Falcon the hodgepodge that she is. Not amazing literature but not a bad little adventure either.
I first read this book when I was 9 or 10 and it was the first Star Wars book I read that wasn't a movie adaptation. I loved it at the time and if it hasn't quite held up in the intervening decades, well, what has? It's still a fun adventure tale starring some of my favorite Star Wars characters. In some ways it feels like older science fiction - more 40's and 50's - but Star Wars itself hearkens back to those 'space opera' traditions.
In comparison to another Solo Trilogy that I read (which was decent) this opening novel of another Solo Trilogy gave me something I longed for. That is Solo the scoundrel, the scruffy looking nerf herder. Perhaps Solo's most rogue portrayal to date this is sure to please Han fans. Hopefully the new planned cinematic spinoff will draw inspiration.
Han Solo at Stars' End was originally published in 1979 and was the second Star Wars "spin-off" novel, after Alan Dean Foster's Splinter of the Mind's Eye (released the year before).
Whereas Foster's novel focused on Luke, Leia, Threepio and Artoo and was a direct "continuation" of events from Lucas' film, Stars' End is a completely separate story with no direct links to that first film, save for the characters of Han and Chewie and, of course, the Millennium Falcon.
Yes, this is a pretty standard men/aliens-on-a-mission / prison-break story, yet Daley invests it with enough colour and gusto to make it very engaging.
As opposed to shooting second.”Taking my niece and nephew to Walt Disney’s Star Wars weekend gave me the itch for a bit more of George Lucas’s universe and, eschewing the more modern material (much of which I have already read), I decided to dip back to 1979’s Han Solo at Stars’ End by Brian Daley.
To many fans’ chagrin, Lucas rather unceremoniously retconned Han taking the first shot against the bounty hunter Greedo from the original film, subtly changing (to many) a bit of Han’s personality.Daley doesn’t fall into that trap.
But Han Solo at Stars’ End is more than just nostalgia; it remains entertaining its own right and a read that any Star Wars fan can appreciate.
This works great as a head-canon for Han, so it's unfortunate that this isn't what others went from.What is awesome though is that this is the novel that introduced the Z-95 Headhunter, which is in a plethora of Legends works AND is also canonical.Han goes to Duroon, which is in the Corporate Authority Sector.
Han gets in trouble with the Security Police because of his work on the Millennium Falcon.It's strange to me that the CAS is constantly mentioned, but the Empire isn't.Han and Chewie escape and head to a planet where their friends are.
Jessa is the daughter to Doc, a technician who does a lot of illegal work on ships.
For instance, at one point Han Solo has to fight off some invading fighter from this planet, an event that is thrown in there completely randomly and has absolutely zero impact on the rest of the book, like Daley just stuck it in there because he felt a need for a star fighter combat scene.Also, I thought the ending was kind of silly and anticlimactic, and the entire book just wasn't epic enough.
How many times has THAT one been done?Despite all this, I had to give this book 4 stars just because I enjoyed the humor and writing in this book, and it was a good light summer read.
It's comically bad in retrospect, and it's a good thing Lucas got the budget to film ESB as it was instead of that shoddy sequel.In contrast, Daley seems to have tapped into the direction the modern EU might take.
He developed so many concepts incorporated into later books that it seems anachronistic, as though Daley wrote much more recently.
It captures the depth and diversity and vastness of the GFFA, seeking the essence of a good adventure story in the setting without relying on cheap movie callbacks.
Unlike Splinter, these books definitely hold up and deserve a place in a modestly comprehensive retrospective reading list.
I love that the action takes place outside of the settings that we know; Han and Chewie take the Falcon into Corporate space to smuggle and earn profits.
As the title says, Adventure #1 is about the Stars' End prison and rescuing Doc from there.
I really enjoyed this actionful novel.*SPOILER*The only part that I found a bit weird was the escape from Stars' End itself.
Han set off an explosion, the prison tower was thrown into the atmosphere of the low-G moon, and they had to evacuate before the tower came back down and crashed?
You get hints of the idealism he once had (and will again) and how it turned into a cynical view of the universe.Han is totally in character and this is one of the few books where you get to see him in full smuggler mode.
Lots of excitement, impossible situations that only the reckless, determination and creativity of Han Solo can reveal.
It's also one of the earliest books to offer clues on how Han and Chewbacca team up and how far they will go to protect each other.
Any movie that tries to remake Han Solo's story will seem empty without these awesome adventures underpinning them.
Not really.The plot was muuuch better than in the LCAs though, it was straight-forward and easy to follow without having weird drug-induced dream like sequences.
The closest we got to weird was the "pretend to be a circus"-part, but I'm down with any kind of plot that gives me Han Solo in a skin-tight black body-suit, so there's that.It felt a bit rushed by the end though, and I don't really get the point of having Han "get the girl" because it came out of the fucking blue and felt off, but whatever.
Han Solo at Stars’ End / Han Solo’s Revenge / Han Solo and the Lost LegacyThree books written in 1979/1980 that take place just before Han and Chewie meet Luke and Ben. These books illustrated a bit of background in Solo’s being a “scoundrel” and a smuggler, painting a picture of his impressive and improving skills with a blaster, as well as his innovative ways of getting out of jams.
He was also tied to a pair of droids “Bollux” (BLX-5) and Blue Max (who was a smaller robot that made its home inside Bollux).
These three books are quick reads, but I would probably pass if I had to do it again.
Il succo della vicenda sta in questo: viene incaricato da una sua amica di ritrovarle il padre, rapito dai soliti potenti di turno, e i nostri due eroi ne passeranno delle belle pur di ritrovarlo (e i nostri rischiano più volte di perdere la vita, e il nostro wookie viene pure catturato dai poliziotti).
Ad un certo punto, piccola chicca, si fa cenno anche alla Guerra dei Cloni (vedi film numero due).Mi sono molto divertito a leggere questo romanzo, spero di trovarne altri con protagonisti gli eroi di Star Wars.
Released in 1978, one year after the first Star Wars movie released, this book offers an uncompromising, primal look at Han and Chewy as smugglers and outlaws.What starts as a routine criminal operation and pit stop transforms rapidly into a full blown impossible situation.
it's Solo at the height of his legendary smuggler career, before going through his movie redemption arc.
Always running from the good man inside, trying to remain free and flying, Han comes to grips with the fact that there are some bonds worth living and dying for, and many risks worth taking and allies worth making.The Corporate Sector as villains provide a stark and brilliant insight into modern problems, with bureacracy, private security, and business corruption overtaking our world.
This story looks on how Han Solo changed the world he lived in by finding his humanity in others.
What I would describe most about the book is how Han Solo attempts to solve his problems in the most spectacular way, he is the kind of man that would make a mountain out of a molehill and not get the reason why.
Thank you Brian for giving us a story we can chuckle at still admire the character that is the legend, Han Solo.
Daley's Han Solo doesn't sound too much like "our" Han Solo.
Similarly, it's not much of a "Star Wars" book, since it has nothing to do with the Force, the Empire, the Rebellion/Republic, or anything beyond the names "Han Solo," "Chewbacca," and "Milennium Falcon." Yes, Daley has set himself up for that, creating a kind of backstory for Han before he had personally encountered any of those things, so those familiar elements would of necessity be lacking ...
The final act is decent and even generates some suspense and interest in the ancillary characters Daley has created.
I did!This is a decent entry into the Star Wars universe.
There being no mention of Luke or Leia, or the usual droids, it appears to be a prequel to the original Star Wars film, confusingly titled Episode IV: a New Hope.
Chewie and Han and their new friends find themselves trying to shoot their way out of a secured facilty.
Daley creates a couple of new droid characters that are more than a little interesting,even if they don't seem to feel compelled to obey their masters and seem a bit too self-aware.
This was a decent, if not great entry into the Star Wars universe.
Quick-paced and fun with plenty of gear-head references to non-existent machinery, this very pre-Disney "Solo" adventure stars Han and Chewie being rebellious without being actual Rebels. Hi-jinks, shenanigans, and cool Solo posturing, _Han Solo at Stars' End_ has it all. Published in 1979, it had so little to go on, and takes it as far as it can with character. A goofy, satisfying romp.
I think my main problem was the isolationist approach the author is forced to adopt as George Lucas still hadn't completed ESB and ROTJ and given a bigger picture of the Star Wars galaxy at large.
However, Brian Daley certainly makes a fast paced book and knows how to write Han Solo (something most EU authors have real problems with).
I did like Daley's writing style and some of the dialogue is great but can't shake off the feeling I didn't read a story of significance, that it doesn't matter if it existed or not.
Pretty disappointing, not that Han was ever my favorite character. The writing was sub-par, the plot was meh, and it didn't add much to the Star Wars universe. The most interesting bit was alluding to Han's background (which I can probably find on a Wiki somewhere). I don't think I'll be finishing the series...
I try to stay away from tie-in novels as much as possible but these Han Solo stories have always been on my list. If you're a fan of the character or Star Wars in general, this isn't a bad read. Some of the parts got way too wordy for me but I enjoyed it enough to read the next two stories.
