https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76971.The_Secret_of_Wildcat_Swamp
They had left Bayport, NY on an airplane to go to a swamp some 1000 miles away just to solve a mystery.
And of course, men followed them, and it appeared that they, too, were looking for the fossil.Learning Notes that may ruin the story for you: In the beginning of the book when boredom set it I would put it down and read other people's reviews of it.
Because one of the boys was attacked by a wildcat, and I had thought, Bobcats probably do not attack unless they have rabies because they are only twice the size of a domestic cat which in turn, makes them afraid of people.
I really liked this book a lot because it was related in mystery and adventure.
Most adventure and mystery books are about men trying to find bad people.
They help their father who is a detective in finding many mysteries.
When helping their father they get in many difficulties.
At the end they always find a way to solve the mystery their father started.
I recommend this book to people who like to read and like action movies, because it has a lot if imagery in some fighting scenes and much more.
I really think you would like this book a lot.
This is the 31st of the series that I've read with my son Jason. Jason is currently 10 years old. The series is excellent for someone his age. We spend time every night reading the books. It has been a great learning experience for Jason, as Franklin W. Dixon uses some vocabulary that my son needs me to look up in the dictionary. It has also been a great bonding experience that I have with my son. This book is typical of the series with slightly more sinister crooks in the mystery.
Okay so Hardy Boys is easy reading, but I like the wholesome adventure, but this one was not so good. Sometimes they appeared like complete idiots with not making the most obvious connections, but in the end they save the day.
My goal of re-reading all the Hardy Boys books of my youth brought me to purchase a copy of the 1952 edition of The Secret of Wildcat Swamp at a good used bookstore in Wildwood, NJ and read it on the beach.
This is one of the better of the original Hardy tales, with an action-packed storyline that includes a search for fossils in a swamp while the Hardys are harassed initially for unknown reasons.
Anyone who enjoys the original Hardy series will enjoy The Mystery of Wildcat Swamp.
My first attempt at reading my boys a lengthy non-picture book. My oldest (6) blew me away with his ability to identify clues and piece the mystery together. That made it really fun to read together. Upon finishing, they immediately wanted to pick out their next Hardy Boys book.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This is by far the best/goofiest cover ever. I love it. It's just so silly.The actual book was pretty good too. A train robbery gang! Awesome.
The copy I have is an original text version with DJ, however, I don't think this one was included in my collection when I was a kid.
My older brother (who is now 72) had a collection of Hardy Boy books that he had accumulated in the 1940's and 50's.
I think I acquired the copy I now have on ebay or in a used book store but I'm quite sure I read it when I was in my teens - maybe I borrowed a copy.Anyway, I thought the story was very good with lots of action.
However, what Hardy boy story is not a little far-fetched?
I read a few Hardy Boys mysteries as a kid, so when I found this in the room during a beach vacation, I thought I would check-in again with Joe and Frank.
I was surprised that the writing was so basic while the plot involved some rather sinister characters.
I didn't remember the other stories I read that way, but that was a long time ago.
Having read quite a bit of recent YA lit before recommending it to my nephews, I'm struck by how much more sophisticated the writing is.
Granted, the Hardy Boys stories were written 65 years ago.
It's when the Hardy Boy's find another mystery to solve. They must find a set of treasure which might be a skeleton of a animal to solve the mystery. But bad men try to mess it up. but they come back strong.
Dixon, Franklin W.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
Another great mystery adventure.
Read in 2005.
read when I was 10 through 13
I read like 7 hardy boyz books growing up... from UB's collection... i think this was one of them
Read with miles
The detectives go to jail to find out what a certain criminal is like. While they are there one of the criminals friends escapes from jail. K.M.
Nice book a lot of Mysteries that puzzle you
In which the Hardys turn paleontologist and nearly die in every chapter, and Chet turns Bruce Lee.
A must read book.... The Hardys go helping their science teacher, Cap.
I'm sure I loved the idea of a wildcat swamp.
Awesome book
good book
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
