https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5084.My_Life_in_France
Everything from incredibly detailed memories of menus she ate or cooked for people in France in 1950, to explanations of her experiments with translating French foods to the American market to the trials and tribulations of publishing her cookbook.
It was fascinating to hear her talk about politics of the time period (and this was a surprisingly political book), whether French or American- and then stop herself with one of her patented sweet exclamations (“Phooey!”, “Whew!”)- as if she was suddenly self-conscious of talking about something that she was not an expert about and didn’t want people to think she was getting above herself or something.
Julia Child was such a unique, eccentric, brilliant woman, and I'm always inspired when I realize that she struggled along at loose ends for years before finding her true passion and calling.Her marriage to Paul Child is beautifully portrayed in the book.
I loved her description of her seminal first meal in France, the one that began her obsession with French cuisine.
The woman was not averse to hard work, that's for sure.I really can't say enough about My Life in France.
I absolutely loved reading it, and it made me adore Julia even more than before.
Yet Julia Child wrote this book with her husband's great-nephew Alex Prud'homme, who tells us in his brief Foreword that getting his garrulous old relative to open up about the feelings and secrets that make up the majority of any human life.
In the course of learning to cook the haute bourgeoise cuisine that she made famous in her native land, Child came alive to the joys and thrills of sight, smell, and taste in a way that only truly delicious food can cause a person to become.
If you're a fan of Julia Child or French cooking, or love France, you'll love this witty book. Co-written near the end of her lifetime, My Life is France gives an intimate perspective of Julia Child's joy with life, France, and cooking. If you own Mastering the Art of French Cooking, this is a perfect companion piece. It's also a great gift for good and/or aspiring cooks. It might even inspire the poor or non-cook.
Needless to say, I don't think that group would enjoy My Life in France either - Julia Child is fiercely anti-Republican and critical of many aspects of American politics which she sees as hypocritical.
Julia's politics were important to her and she studied assidiously so that she could hold up her end in dinner-table debates with her more knowledgeable friends, often over one of her wonderfully-cooked meals.The story of how she learned to cook and the various places she and Paul lived in, is beautifully told without either undue self-praise or false modesty.
I've never been a fan of Julia Child, and whenever I ran across her show on PBS I'd make a conscious effort to change the channel, which was why I was surprised when My Life in France turned out to be one of the most well-written, engaging Autobiographies I've read in quite awhile.
The reader will feel as if they are having a conversation with her over lunch.
Julia's love of the food and people of France, as well as her husband Paul, permeate this book, and allow the reader to get a feeling for her as a person, rather than just an imposing, 2-D TV personality.
A nice window on Child’s love affair with France and its food starting in the post war period.
I appreciated her practical and good humored approaches to the challenges and solutions to helping the average household achieving quality meals.
Some of her friendships and conflicts have some life and color, but for the most part the story came across as bland and sanitized.
Some of her passion for particular foods comes through, such as for home-made mayonnaise and French bread.
Ultimately, there was not enough real life drama (e.g. the “thrill of victory and the agony of defeat”), and I expected more humor.
As noted in the introduction, the book was pieced together from conversations Julia's nephew had with her.
He made notes at these conversations and then arranged the events described into some kind of chronological order.
Due to this, however, the narrative is not in any sense a complete autobiography, more like a series of remembrances arranged chronologically.The book is an excellent portrait of the wonders of France just after World War 2, when the country was not as modernized as it is today.
It is not just young people that discover new things and live a life worth enjoying.
But I think what's striking in this memoir of Child's love affair with French food is her drive, her dedication to excellence, her passion--there's something attractive in that no matter what the endeavor--as well as fascinating to get a picture of such an elite, esoteric world as high cuisine.
As for the English, she didn't care for their cooking--and that seems to have been a capital crime to Julia Child.)Did I mention this is about a love affair with French cooking?
I think the reasons I wanted to read this book are that Julia's always thought of as a late bloomer, and because her travels were so influential in helping her discover herself.Certainly, her life had great adventure.
She has a different kind of attitude about life that really makes me think.
Maybe that's not so bad; I just don't think most people would do things this way.
Meanwhile, knowing I'm fairly young, I still worry about the appropriate time to have children, oh, nonstop.
We got all the salmon and king crab we could eat for free.
It's a love story, of her marriage with Paul Child, who is about the most intelligent, charming man I've ever met between the covers of a book.
It's a voyage of discovery into French cuisine, into the science of cooking, into collaborating on and writing a cookbook, or any book for that matter.
Yet my friends, both French and American, considered me some kind of a nut: cooking was far from being a middle-class hobby, and they did not understand how I could possibly enjoy doing all the shopping and cooking and serving by myself.
If you love books about food or about living in France, this is a must-read.
It's the story of how Julia Child learned to cook French food and how she came to write that famous cookbook.
It's one of the most delightful travel books I've read in years.What's wonderful about Julia Child is the confidence she can inspire in a new cook.
I liked this quote toward the end of the book: "The great lesson ...
is that no one is born a great cook, one learns by doing.
It is written by Alex Prud'homme, Julia's great-nephew, who spent days trying to get to the essence of Julia's love of French food.
I enjoyed the utter fascination of Julia and her husband, Paul, with France and French food.
The book does become less interesting in the second half once the couple leave France but by then I was so hooked with Julia's life and career that my interest remained strong.
Sadly, I could not use most of her recipes because they were not vegetarian, but I found a couple of aubergine recipes that I totally intend to try out.Julia Child was a remarkable woman, and Alex Prud'homme is a remarkable writer.
After all her marvelous culinary contributions, Julia Child (with her nephew, Alex Prud'homme) has created a literary gem--one that will no doubt fill your tastebuds with longing but will satisfy many other senses as it is a joyous, exuberant, intelligent and touching memoir sharing her love for husband Paul, for France, and for good food!
You will learn so many more fascinating and charming details about Julia's life.
But, truly, I would recommend this book to anyone--Julia Child fan, Francophile, gourmet, anyone interested in spending a few hours with an intelligent, warm-hearted and humorous woman whom you also wish could stay and help you cook (and then eat) dinner!
This memoir is fun and I want to live her life.
I want to live in Paris, Marseille, Oslo and Boston too, creating sumptuous recipes, hanging out with James Beard and decorating a summer house in Provence.
I wouldn't even mind being dead since 2004.I am totally convinced that her cookbooks are the foremost authorities on French cooking, now that I've seen how many times she would experiment with a basic recipe to get it right.
Makes me want to read her cookbooks cover to cover to actually learn how to really cook.
Good thing her "Mastering the Art of French Cooking" vols.
Well what can I add to my loving Julia Child as a food personality and chef. She is iconic in her love of life and someone I have always admired.Never Apologize!!
That in itself is amazing, as Julia Child would never have been considered the emblem of stardom.
"Pretty good," we declared, "but not great." We had tried, and this was the very best we'd ever look.That's why I love this book and that's why, after reading it, I grew to love Julia Child.
Not able to find any at the local store, I will make it myself with the same obsession to detail that Julia Child brought to her food and her life.
(Written after reading the first thirty pages or so.)Every now and again I pick up a book by a chef which isn't a recipe book....and I always regret it. This time shouldn't have surprised me. I'd seen the movie (loosely based on the book) and it was merely innocuous. It could have been made 20 pages shorter, just by taking out the exclamation marks. I guess if I were American and she was my cooking icon maybe?But I'm not.
I can't say I was crazy about the style, or Julia herself, for that matter, but her enthusiasm and energy came across clearly (relentlessly!) and I found her story to be, mostly, engaging.Though I'm not actually interested in French food as a general thing, I do remember Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking as a fixture on my mom's cookbook shelf, and I find the social history aspect of the thing – the growing curiosity and excitement about gourmet cooking alongside the increasing availability use of convenience foods among American home cooks in the 50's and early 60's – an appealing subject.As I read I found myself swinging between aggravation at her brash, self-congratulatory tone and admiration for her passion, curiosity, and drive.
I really liked the style of how this book was written--very organized, just as Julia was!
Can you imagine writing such a cookbook as she did with no computer to keep tabs on all the testing, changes, etc?
She would have loved Good Eats when Alton Brown does all his chemistry talk especially with all the testing of mayonnaise, of all things!
I realized early on that Julia and I would not be friends--she was so focused and intense.
Everything for her was cooking, writing, testing and eating.
She says at one time that she likes "eggheads"--I always thought that meant bald men!
"No heroes?" she asked sadly, before brightening just as quickly and asking, "What about Elenore Roosevelt?"After reading My Life in France, however, I am happy to report that I am as close to having a hero as I've ever been.
Julia Child: left-leaning, wayward daughter to her conservative parents, left home to pursue work with the Office of Strategic Services (the precursor to the CIA), lived in multiple countries in South Asia.
Yes, I'd say that Julia Child is at the very least going to be my emotional-professional-spiritual guide going forward, if not simply being referred to as my absolute most favorite person I've never met ev-er.Bon Apetit!
This was a Christmas gift from my best-friend-forever Ariel, and a perfect read not only for foodies and urban farmgirls like myself, but anyone who's going through the "if not now, when?" blues.
There are some eyerolling tales here of the Childs being tossed about like an old Raggedy Ann doll by their employer, the U.S. government, that will make anyone who collects a paycheck nod with recognition.
Oy.) But yes, if you love food, travel, cooking, late bloomers, France, tiny cars, dogged pursuit of unlikely passions and hobbies, and maybe Julia, this one's for you.
This book was largely ghost-written by a nephew of Julia's husband.
She arrived in France knowing nothing about food or cooking, and this book is first and foremost about her learning process as a cook (and a chef, an author, and a TV personality).
I'm inspired by this story of a woman who worked for the OSS (forerunner to the CIA) after WWII in Asia, and got married in her mid-30's (unheard-of in the late 1940's!) to the genuine love of her life.Anecdote: She arrived in France a fairly new bride, very nervous, speaking minimal schoolgirl French, and knowing nothing about food.
I doubt she even realized just how extraordinary she was.
Her greatest successes came at an age when most people think their best years have already passed them by.I'm not fond of French cuisine or rich foods in general, but there is much to enjoy in this book, even if some of the food doesn't sound appealing.
I admire her enthusiasm and eagerness to just dive in wherever she was and learn the language and experience absolutely everything.
It was a revelation to me how much went into creating her cookbooks.
Years and years of research and testing, re-testing, re-re-testing recipes!
This is a autobiography of Julia Child. I was too young to have been a fan of her cooking show, but I do own one of her cookbooks. It amazes me how one event in life can alter the rest of your life...forever. Her pivotal moment was moving to France. I enjoyed her story. She found her passion and then she sought to perfect it. I admire that kind of dedication....it was sort of a labor of love for her. I was completely impressed with her tenacity..... 4 stars
This is a delightful book about Julia Child and the things that she loved the most: her husband, France, cooking, and eating.
Paul took letter writing seriously: he’d set aside time for it, tried to document our day-to-day lives in a journalistic way, and usually wrote three to six pages a week in a beautiful flowing hand with a special fountain pen; often he included little sketches of places we’d visited, or photos (some of which we have used in these pages), or made mini-collages out of ticket stubs or newsprint.This was taken in 1953, probably in Provence:Some of my favorite quotes:“I made sure not to apologize for it.
This book is more than just those days when she and Paul lived there; it spans her life from her original posting to Ceylon for the OSS (where she and Paul Child met) all the way through until she closed up and sold their home in Provence 40-odd years later.It is a warm, engaging, and personal book and I think we can grant her and her co-author a bit of liberty in what it covers.
Since she herself did a fair amount of travelling, it should not have been surprising to find her at the airport on a day that I was.
I love biographies.
I love food memoirs.
I love books about places I've never been, sights I haven't seen.
My Life in France is all of the above and then some.Throw in Julia's unique personality, effervescence and other equally entertaining folks such as her cookbook collaborator.
Add a dash of disappointment, a sprinkle of frustration becomes the perfect story with its ups and downs, tensions.One of my favorite qualities Julia possessed was her ability to state things as they were, no touching-up the truth to make it more palatable.
Getting her cookbook published exemplifies this well.For the hesitant reader of My Life in France, forget everything you know or heard about Julia Child and enjoy the book.
I'm not sure exactly what makes it so compelling to me, because I am not a cook, but I think it's the unpretentious look-at-me-ness that was Julia Child.
Alex Prud'homme carefully captured Julia Child's voice and the force of her personality.
This book is also a great slice of life portrayal of life in post-war Europe, from the perspective of a civil servant and his wife.
It was also fascinating to learn about Paul Child, and the relationship between Paul & Julia - at the conclusion of the book, you really wish you could just hang out with them at "La Peetch", eating sole meuniere and watching the sun set in Provence.
In contrast, when her husband's government job transferred them to Germany, the very thought of "living in that land of monsters caused me to suffer le cafard (the blues)." This was post WWII--mid 1950s.
Could they really be the same people who had allowed Hitler to terrorize the world just a few years earlier?" All of this illustrates the fact that Julia's life story is inextricably linked with an interesting time in history, the time of recovery after WWII.
I enjoyed her reminisces as she lived this era of history.Julia also had some fascinating friends.
