https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139463.Maniac_Magee
Little girls jumping rope chant: "Ma-niac, Ma-niac He's so cool Ma-niac, Ma-niac Don't go to school Runs all night Runs all right Ma-niac, Ma-niac Kissed a bull!" But the thing Maniac Magee is best known for is what he did for the kids from the East Side and those from the West Side.He was special all right, and this is his story, and it's a story that is very careful not to let the facts get mixed up with the truth.Maniac Magee by Jerry Spinelli, Scholastic Inc. 2002.
I really didn't enjoy this book. I feel like the story didn't really go anywhere. Spinelli tried to touch on issues of racial prejudice and poverty, and let the exsistance of those issues carry his story. It didn't work. However because there are touchy issues, it becomes a story that isn't easy to complain about. However I'll be brave enough to say, "I didn't like it!". As a personal note, I do not find this novel appropriate for children still in gradeschool.
A really neat book.
I find myself asking, "Why didn't I ever read this before?" I've certainly heard of it for years.
My fourth grade daughter just read it at school and loved it.
It starts out almost like a tall tale, but what Maniac really accomplished is better than a legend.
So it's a meaningful story that teaches an important lesson without being preachy.
The quick pace of the story matches the speedy main character.
I liked his courage, kindness, humility, joy in life and desire to help others.
I've heard other Spinelli books recommended, too--I'll have to read more.
I HATED IT.Plot: A little boy named Maniac's parents had a tragic death. He lives with his stupid aunt and uncle who should get a divorce. During a march of the animals or whatever school play, he shouts like Harry in the fifth and runs into the onion smelling night. He lives with animals and eats animal food. He is not very happy. :o He meets an old guy who used to play baseball. He dies. Maniac lives with animals again! etc... DON'T READ IT.
It approaches the concept of “race” and “racism” through the eyes of someone that just wants to make friends and doesn't understand why people would treat others differently just because of their looks.
Students need to see books that don't gloss over the dark side of life but show how a character can go through the darkness and come out the other side by making friends and building relationships.
I have personally recommended this book to help a boy I worked with deal with his dad's passing and it helped him a lot since he could see how someone went through the same emotions as him and how that character found the light again after.
I love this book because is telling me the time when black people and white people were seperted.Thi
I loved this book when I was in junior high school. You know that scene in Forrest Gump where Forrest decides to just run across the country repeatedly? This book is very similar, but the extraordinary runner in this story is a boy who gets sick of his stuffy aunt and uncle.

Last week I came across a pile of free books on the ground...all copies of MANIAC MAGEE.
I don't talk politics online, mostly because my own personal believe system is simply "don't be a jerk" and "if you are nice to people it'll spread", but if you know a kid, or really anyone who is sad and confused by what happened in Ferguson/Staten Island this book is a great place to start the conversation.
My copy will return to the streets, just like Magee himself, and hopefully find the hands of someone else in need of a little hope.
"Maniac loved the colors of the East End, the people colors.For the life of him, he couldn't figure why these East Enders called themselves black.
But never licorice, which, to him, was real black."Oh, you precious little freak.I don't really follow the thought that if people stopped talking about color of skin, then racism would disappear- and that' what Spinelli promotes through Maniac's sweet innocent voice.
"Maniac kept trying, but he still couldn't see it, this color business.
He didn't figure he was white any more than the East Enders were black."-2,5 stars because you just gotta love jeffrey-Good message, poor execution-short and easy to read-funny and weird and sad
Re-read in prep for teaching it to my younger group of kids this year. The structure of the book lends itself very well to teaching it in chunks and to illustrate its points clearly, which isn't why it's a classic of early middle school, I assume. Extra star for that- looking forward to discussions that arise from it.
Maniac Magee is a book that stuck with me long after I read it in fifth grade for the first time.
It stuck with me more than in just a life-long love of Butterscotch Krumpets, but also in the sweetness of the main character and the good that he finds in - well, everyone.
This book shows that in a way that is accessible to a kid, touching to an adult, and just...
He meets people along the way - white, black, old, and young.
Jerry Spinelli is a wonderful writer, and he gets what makes kids tick.This book lived up to my expectations, and even surpassed them.
I also really liked the way the author removed him from that home and gave him the ability to love the old man.
The final place he stops for a while is the classic idea of someone trying to do for the two little boys what no one had done for Maniac when he was a young child.
The theme of the bitterness of racism prevails throughout the story, but Maniac’s ability to be colorblind and love unconditionally no matter where he finds himself is a unique and fresh approach.
Jerry Spinelli does more than just tell Maniac’s story, he weaves the very fabric of his life until he finally comes home for the last time.
I personally am not a fan of Jerry Spinelli (with the exception of Stargirl), and thought I would give him one last shot.
Throw in there a sad, pathetic kid whose life does not improve whatsoever and some other worthless surface characters and you have the trainwreck that is Maniac Magee.
It might just be me, but almost all of Jerry Spinelli's protagonists have tragic, horrible lives (which I get, I totally understand the appeal), but the lives of these characters never turn positive--Loser, Milkweed, even Stargirl!
Maniac Magee is no exception.
Teacher came up with a set of topics & each student was assigned a topic.
I was given the topic of the knot, some little plot device in the middle of the book.
I was pretty annoyed that a girl in the class was assigned the widescale topic of the character, & demonstrated that she didn't get past the first chapter when she stated that they called him maniac magee because he was yelling like a maniac whereas in the following chapters they state explicitly that he gained the name because people said he was running like a maniac
Really good book! I read it more than once!
The ending of the book wasn't as I would think the writer would've ended it. Some parts of the book were confusing and hard to understand.
A year later, he appears in a strictly racially segregated town, doing amazing feats and running like a mad man, earning him the nickname, Maniac.
This Newbery Winning story, without a clear setting in time, deals extensively with issues of race and segregation.
This should be encouraged, especially with students who have trouble with some of the more painful aspects of the text.Activities to do with the book: This is a good book to discuss topics of race, segregation, school truancy, homelessness and loss.
This is also a good way to introduce the idea of ‘whiteness.’ To help students visualize the text, they could create maps of Two Mills, reinforcing the division between the sides of the town.
OMG! I forgot I read this until now, I loved this book!!! The story of Magee is do interesting.
The town is divided by two sides, the East and the West.
He wanders into the East side and meets Amanda Beale.
After awhile, Maniac started to realize how much some people in the East side hate him, he runs away again.
He lives in the buffalo pin at the zoo, until he meets a man named Earl Grayson.
He wanders for awhile, and then he comes across two boys claiming to have run away from home.
He lives there until one night, Amanda Beale comes looking for him and begs Maniac to come back, and he agreed.
This cute but disjointed story chronicles the early life of an outcast, Maniac Magee, and his journey to find a home. It is laugh out loud funny at times, touching during others, but it lacks coherence. It reads more like a collection of anecdotes than a story or even a memoir. Magee is clearly endearing, and his nobility in the face of hardship makes him a hero of sorts. (Having near super-human powers doesn't hurt, either.) Middle schoolers will take a shine to this character for sure.
The opening pages of this book are good. The writing is alive, and, well, "maniacal," and then it sort of melts into a gooey pile of pabulum. Lots of weird racial stuff takes place. I mean, if you wanted to use the book as case evidence of white guilt, it would work, 'cuz there's something fishy about this super-fast, orphaned white-kid who ends up living with a black family. Wishful thinking, Spinelli. It's too late. You're a honky.
Probably the best book club book I've read in a while! This book takes place in a very interesting town named, Bridgeport. This town is separated by race. This book got me surprised that the town is separated by race and it takes place in the 2000s. I recommend this book to anyone who likes different types of stories.
This is my ultime favorite book! I love the determination and survival techniques that Maniac Magee displays and the positive evolution of the character. This novel will warm your heart and you will read that everyone can and should be loved. Your eyes will play magic tricks on you as you read and can visualize the line of racial tension start to fade away.
I still can't find the words to express what this book means to me. When I was in fifth grade reading this book, I felt like Magee. This book is as deep and soulful as any book that has ever been written for adults. I hope it remains on elementary school reading lists for years to come.
Now that I have, I’m not sure what I would have thought of it then, and I wonder if I would have interpreted it differently than I do as an adult.Maniac Magee tells the story of how Jeffrey Magee becomes a legend in his small town after his parents die in a freak accident.
Maniac Magee is a white boy born on the West End, who understandably suffers when his parents die from a freak accident.
Overall, I’m glad I read this book and finally ended the mystery that is the legend of Maniac Magee.
I think that Jeffrey "Maniac" Magee is a far more likable character than I thought he would be and one that made a better impression for doing good for both the west and east ends of Two Mills, Pennsylvania.
Maniac Magee's ability to make an impact on everyone he comes across in most cases for the better really says a lot to those of us in reality about how someone's race, color, religion, creed, background, or nationality should not stand in the way of how they are treated.
“Vowels were something else. He didn't like them and they didn't like him. There were only five of them, but they seemed to be everywhere. Why, you could go through twenty words without bumping into some of the shyer consonants, but it seemed as if you couldn't tiptoe past a syllable without waking up a vowel. Consonants, you know pretty much where you stood, but you could never trust a vowel.” Maniac Magee, an orphan kid who's lived on the street and various homes, is nothing short of a legend
Why, you could go through twenty words without bumping into some of the shyer consonants, but it seemed as if you couldn't tiptoe past a syllable without waking up a vowel.
Consonants, you know pretty much where you stood, but you could never trust a vowel.”
Maniac Magee, an orphan kid who's lived on the street and various homes, is nothing short of a legend.
Strangely, I had never heard of Maniac Magee before.
I decided to give the audiobook a shot, and it turned out to be one of the best middlegrade books I have ever read!
:-) And then it sat languishing on my shelf until my 11 year old niece found out I had it, had not read it and became EXTREMELY indignant.
And has been badgering me for over a year to read it.
Like all of the Spinelli books I have read, this one was very realistic, very touching and had me thinking about many things [and how I handle situations] for quite some time after I finished.
My niece will be thrilled that I finally read this, and to be honest, so am I.
It was, quite simply, a delightful, thought-provoking, fantastic read.
Quick re-read for a challenge
