https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253.The_Air_Conditioned_Nightmare
Some excerpts:It is a world suited for monomaniacs obsessed with the idea of progress - but a false progress, a progress which stinks.
It is a world cluttered with useless objects which men and women, in order to be exploited and degraded, are taught to regard as useful ...
is debarredWe are accustomed to think of ourselves as an emancipated people; we say that we are democratic, liberty-loving, free of prejudices and hatred.
To call this a society of free peoples is blasphemous.
What have we to offer the world beside the superabundant loot which we recklessly plunder from the earth under the maniacal delusion that this insane activity represents progress and enlightenment?
هنري ميللر قد يكون أول الكارهين لأمريكا يعري وجهها من تبرجها المبالغ فيه يعري أطروحة أمريكا الحلم ال
It's a shame that Miller didn't make it to the millennium (though he died at 88 years of age; 1891-1980), although I would imagine he lived long enough to see how right his bleak vision of our self-destructive world come to fruition - for lack of a better word.
No man ever will be ahead of his time quite like Miller was, and despite his being ridiculed at the time for his vulgar outlook on the world, he has since become a legend in his own right.
Do yourself a favor and read Miller; especially this volume of immaculate confusion and wayward perfection.
But the vast majority of the text is comprised of sweeping generalizations about vast swaths of the country (about which he seems to know little); effete, snooty, and quasi-aristocratic attitudes about the people he encounters - the sort of ex-pat elitism that he attempts poorly to counterbalance with some patronizing support for a scattered handful of salt-of-the-earth types; and blatant, unabashed racism - again, that he attempts to cast as some sort of admiration for African-Americans, but is unmistakable in the acidic tinge that it carries.
Update: I'm abandoning this one some 50 pages in. He is far too annoying and the racism is really grating on me. If you have read it, and know that it improves, please tell me.In this book so far, Miller goes from being a more-or-less cool sex-drugs-and-rock&roll guy (as in Sexus/Nexus/Plexus and the Tropics) to being an archetypal Grumpy Old Man. The train is ugly! I don't like the skyline! That station is horrific! That seagull shows the utter decline of the American nation! I can't stand looking at these bland office blocks a second longer!
"Everything worth saying about the American way of life I could put in thirty pages.
Topographically the country is magnificent--and terrifying.
Why terrifying?
Nowhere have I encountered such a dull, monotonous fabric of life as here in America.
Here boredom reaches its peak."A good quote to sum of the gist of reading this book.
I thought I would get tired of reading Miller's criticisms of America, but I found his insights dead-on mostly, even despite the fact that this book was originally published in the 1940's.
It's similar to Umberto's Eco's America in conception, but like Celine in terms of themes.
I read this book in a road lit and film class, everyone called it propaganda except me...i fought for this book all semester...this is so refreshing and current...although he is a little long winded--but he is Henry Miller--I am sure he doesn't care
I've read the many mixed reviews about this book and I must agree with the reviews that reflect how much this book relates to our current times. It's not a book to be lumped with Miller's well known Sexus, Plexus & Nexus series. Instead, the readers should be prepared to see a dark and at certain moments, a downright depressing outlook on our nation. He makes no effort to hide problems that existed when the novel was written and continue to exist today.This book is worth reading merely for the different perspective that is presented on our nation.
(..) It is a world made for monomaniacs obsessed with the idea of progress ... but of a false progress that stinks. It is a world encumbered with useless objects that, in order to better exploit and degrade them, men and women were taught to consider useful. (..)
Like I did last summer, Henry Miller traveled across the country beginning in 1939.
This is not why I didn't like his book - some of the best travel writing is born of hatred and disgust.
At the same time, Miller openly describes his frustrating efforts to try and secure a book deal prior to his trip.
But most of the book is not like that.
It is comprised of essays, and the worst are the ones entirely removed from the narrative of the trip that seem to function as filler, and that filler is mostly of the whiny starving artist kind.
It is an eye opening book about a land where imagination is difficult to find, sense of adventure minuscule, where the people are essentially lemmings, glomming along, while at the same time filled with a sense of arrogance because they get the sense of themselves not by intelligence, and insight, but by the fact that their country is big, robust, has a powerful military and is financially strong, which in the end has little or no meaning where the human condition, and their interaction with others, their land, is concerned.
It is at once both amazing and depressing.I was refreshed to realize that for over 100 years at least people like Henry Miller have been looking for the root cause of what is wrong with us.
The Grand Canyon chapter points brilliantly to that.I thought it interesting as well to discover little has changed since the 1930s.
Amazing!One of my truly favorite works from Henry Miller.
I recommend this to anyone interested in culture as seen through the eyes of an expatriate communicated with the color of raw language Miller is so well known for.
I often didn't agree with what he said, but I always enjoyed how he said it. Quote from page 192: "The duck is plucked, the air is moist, the tide's out and the goat's securely tethered. The wind is from the bay, the oysters are from the muck. Nothing is too exciting to drown the pluck-pluck of the mandolins. The slugs move from slat to slat; their little hearts beat fast, their brains fill with swill. By evening it's all moonlight on the bay. The lions are still affably baffled and whatever snorts, spits, fumes and hisses is properly snaffled."
بغض النظر عن أن هنري يتحدث بأسلوب رائععن أمريكاه..إلا أن اللغة شدتني وأبهرتني فعلاً.وحديثه يشملنا جم
I never considered myself a patriot, until I read this book and felt so fiercely insulted by every trivial insult he flung at all things american.
I was fleeing Charleston at the time, and driving through the Smokey Mountains--which were incredible.
His arguments seemed extremely petulant ("the parks in america aren't as good as the parks in europe.
The stores in america aren't as good as the stores in Europe," etc, etc, etc), and I knew he had no idea what he was talking about when he stopped to make an exception for Charleston, saying it was the only place in America worth going to.
الهجاء الأكثر راديكالية لأمريكا
This is not James Baldwin returning to America from a fruitful career as an artist in Europe out of a sense of personal responsibility for the outcome of the fight he left behind to explore his voice.
I could write an entire review about the racism of this book, but in the end it's like having dinner in the old folks home with your uncle Bob; what do you say to dinosaurs like this?
He tells you who his artistic heroes are and details his FEELINGS about their greatness.
Miller is a crank, a morsel of his time, the "Man Artist".
Since I am kind-of on a travel book spree, I picked up this one.
In 1939, after living on the Continent for ten years as an ex-pat, Miller decided it was time to come back to this country and get to know it better – to get to the roots of his homeland.
It soon becomes obvious that Miller will not like much of anything that he sees on his travels.
I suspect that I will have to find a biography of this writer to make sure that I will be reading his better books and getting a feel for the real man underneath all the negativity.
Henry Miller's lush prose is gorgeous, but he seems to get distracted about a third of the way through.Regardless, The Air-Conditioned Nightmare is a great motivation to leave the US, if only I could afford...
مجموعة خواطر كتبها الأمريكي هنري ميلر يتحدث فيها عن كراهيته لأمريكا وسياستها وطبيعه مجتمعها ويقارنها بدول اوروبا وخصوصًا بفرنسا، الكتاب ممل بعض الشيء لكثرة سرد نفس النقاط وتكرارها
I am just amazed how many Americans have not even heard about this book...but then again, many didn't hear about Depleted Uranium Weapons either.

The journey begins on a note of hope: “I wanted to have a last look at my country and leave it with a good taste in my mouth.
I wanted to embrace it, to feel that the old wounds were really healed.” Instead, he finds despair: a nation where giant industries deaden the lives of their workers while polluting the environment, and a population which seeks nothing greater than credit, cheap cars, and vapid mass consumerism.
It says a great deal that many of Miller’s scathing critiques are just as relevant today.And yet the book contains a note of hope.
I don’t believe that a man as brazen as Mr. Miller would continue a journey of this sort for such a long amount of time if he really hated it so.
As much as I dislike this book, I will admit that he noticed our throw-away culture before most people would have defined the beginning period: I have always heard that it was September of ’45 when everyone came back from the war with money in their pockets.
We got the suburbs, and all the throw away convinces that came with them… Perhaps he was trying to write a book as throw-away as the society he found.
Not because it's a happy book, it's really quite angry and harshly critical of so much that Miller saw in America when he returned from Europe--which I guess is part of what prompted him to go in the first place, but his critiques of mid-century America serve to show that we in the twenty-first century aren't the first to be angry and frustrated with the things that are happening that we feel we have no control over.
Miller's descriptions of his friends and favorite places that feed his soul provide a counterpoint to the negatives that he details, so that you can walk away from this book with a sense of hope, however world-weary it may be.
Like many who read this i appreciate his criticisms of america although i think they don't tell the whole story.
There's a lot about his ideas of art and artists as the counterbalance or antithesis of what he hates, and interesting discussions of several specific artists operating in America that he considers on the right path.I thought the tone he took while talking about his car and repair efforts was funny and strangely humble compared to his usual attitudes.
I think the Hollywood party was probably the worst section in the sense of just being entirely to easy and not interesting.
I had my doubts but I'm glad I read it.
هنري ميللر يهذي بطريقته الساحرة كالعادة، لم تكن رواية ولا أعلم لم صنفت كذلك، هي ذكرياته وحكايا مغامرته لما قرر اكتشاف وطنه "أميركا" من جديد لعله يجد سببا ليحبها وهو المشهور باحتقاره لها.
أحداث الكتاب ليست كثيرة وذات إيقاع هادئ، لكن ميللر كعادته يكتب وهو يصرخ ويبصق في وجه كل شيء فهو دائما منزعج.وأحيانا تشعر وأنت تقرأ كأنك تركض، فكرة تجرّ فكرة وجملة أقوى مما قبلها لأنه إما متطرف في مدح مايعجبه أو متطرف متهكم في ذم مايكرهه، ويصبح أحيانا كرجل حكيم طحنته الحياة فكتب خُلاصتها.
كتاب جميل لكن لا تبدأ به لهنري ميلر.*الترجمة ركيكة خصوصا في الوصف، لما يأتي مقطع يصف -والكتاب أغلبه وصفي- مكان أو لوحة تصبح الكلمات غريبة واللغة ركيكة جدا بالكاد أفهمها!
summary: henry miller is a old man, he has aspergers, the park bench is too uncomfortable, they wont let him feed bread to the ducks at the park, theres too many negros at the park, theres too many dog at the park.
hendry miller discovers yoga.
henry miller eats, prays, loves.i hate american as much as the next guy but id rather read america-hate from a real authentic french cool guy (baudrillard much??) than a wannabe french bitter expat guy, even if tropic of cancer was good, sorry henry milner.
Henry Miller, soaked through, sopping, swimming in his world of beauty and truth, confronts America, 1941. Observations, ruminations, lamentations and more follow. The best chapter is hard to name... I love the bit on Weeks Hall, and the bit on the surgeon painter, and of course the last essay, the evening in Hollywood.
Still reading....however, I will add that despite being published in 1945, I feel Miller's observations on American and European culture are timeless. He could be writing the same today. Extremely descriptive and passionate...I'll revise my review upon finishing.
