https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49741.Miguel_Street
وبصراحة دى اول مرة أقابل الأدب (التريندادي ) وكانت مقابلة ممتعة .شئ بديع , فعلا , حاجة كدا بتغيّر لك المزاج الشخصى للأفضل .ذكريات جميلة سردها الكاتب بطريق مميزة تجبرك على أنك تحب العمل وتحب أسلوبه.
شخصيات بتفاصيل ستوقن من أنك سبق وقابلتها .الأحداث مبهجة ومؤلمة فى بعض الأحيان .العمل فى المجمل ينتمى لذلك النوع العابر للثقافات والمشترك بين كل المجتمعات قى المجمل عمل ممتاز.ملحوظة : الرواية صدرت عن الهيئة المصرية تبع سلسلة الجوائز , الاصدار رقم 18 .
A stranger could drive through Miguel Street and just say “Slum!” because he could see no more. But we who lived there saw our street as a world, where everybody was quite different from everybody else. Mam-man was mad; George was stupid; Big Foot was a bully; hat was an adventurer; Popo was a philosopher; and Morgan was our comedian. You want a book that is earnest and enjoyable with the pace being right quick, quick? - well you came to right place. This be a collection of vignettes through th
You want a book that is earnest and enjoyable with the pace being right quick, quick?
This be a collection of vignettes through the eyes of a short pants playing at being a man.
It's a collection of characters, but it also be a description of a place and time - it paint a picture real good good.
Like most books that are written in dialect though, with time you catch the rhythm, beat, and patterns, and soon you will find yourself engrossed, not just comprehending the words but hearing the earnest voices.
How charming!The Caribbean street filled with lowlifes, with dreamers, with quirky, street-smart or naive characters literally comes to life in Naipaul's beautiful, beautiful prose.
It is a panoramic narration - we are introduced to people one by one, a chapter at a time, and by the time we are done reading, we have lived a different, distant life with them.
I am sure that such control cannot come without total confidence in one's writing.
I think I have read the best book by an Indian writer so far.
Miguel Street probably ranks as the most poignant work of art I have ever read, stirring inside of me emotions that no piece of literature has ever had the power of doing.
From the narrator's perspective, we are introduced to every character in his vicinity, portraying the diversity and the interaction between them.
From banter to jokes, laughs and sorrow, intellectual conversations and heated arguments, this is a community within Trinidad where everything that happens in Miguel Street is nothing but the world for each and every one of the characters.
For those of us that read Miguel Street, we know better.
Used to teach Miguel Street in community college Freshman English--maybe fifteen years, often twice a year.
And the aforesaid tinkerer-mechanic who destroys new cars and trucks, his chapter titled, "The Mechanical Genius." There's the fireworks afficianado whose obsession blows up his house, in the "Pyrotechnicist," which begins with the central point of the book: "A stranger could drive down Miguel Street and just say 'Slum!' because he could see no more.
But we, who lived there, saw our street as a world, where everone was quite different from everybody else." (63, Vintage 1984) I would use the book as the first of five in my course, others including a Shakespeare play, a poetry collection, and a memoir or non-fiction.
The book is written in some nice subtle use of vernacular - almost patois, not at all challenging or distracting, but for me it really added to the great descriptive writing.
Otherwise I come up and turn your face with one slap, you hear.""She look like a drinker sheself." Each chapter brings a new depth to the neighbourhood, building on previous characters and events, but written in such a way that the chapter stands alone too.
Very clever.I understand from other reviews that although this was Naipaul third novel published, it was written first.
أمتلكُ الخيال، لكن تولى عني الحب وقال يَا أَسَفَا، "لله أيام تقضت بكم = ما كان أحلاها و أهناها...
The author's nihilism has no time for sympathy.Whilst one could easily construe this as an assault on the common sense and dignity of Trinidad's poorer communities, perhaps the biggest reason the book had such an effect on me as a teenager was because it so accurately portrayed characters who did seem to have parallels with many of the individuals living in the Caribbean's poor communities.
Whatever the viewpoint, there is no denying that Miguel Street is an amazing book and earns Naipaul the right to consider himself one of the best modern writers.
reading this book was like experiencing the pleasure as a child of squishing vibrant finger paints between my fingers and slowly smearing them onto a sheet of white paper. the colors ran together and jumped off of each other and filled the white page with intriguing images. 'miguel street' is a masterpiece of character development, colorful imagery, caribbean flavor, and charming story-telling. the short stories are street-smart yet tender, narrated with the wisdom, innocence, and insight of a young boy. a real joy to read!
کتاب داستانی عادی درباره مردمی عادیست ، داستان آرزوها و ناکامی هایشان ، کمی هم تلخ است ، شاید هم من زمانی که میخواندمش حال خیلی درستی نداشتم ، فضای داستان نزدیک داستانهای لاتین است با کمی رنگ و لعاب کمتر ، به خواندش می ارزد .
کتاب داستانی عادی درباره مردمی عادی‌ست ، داستان آرزوها و ناکامی هایشان ، کمی هم تلخ است ، شاید هم من زمانی که می‌خواندمش حال خیلی درستی نداشتم ، فضای داستان نزدیک داستانهای لاتین است با کمی رنگ و لعاب کمتر ، به خواندش می ارزد .
I mean this was so awesome that I took 20 days to finish this 200 page book.
Just to spare it for the next day even when yesterday I was about to finish I left 5 last pages in greed to fill the passage for next day.If a man want something, and he want it really bad he does get it, but when he get it he doesn't like it.
It doesn't feel like reading the book its in being in the book living with the characters.Thanks Petra X for introducing me this masterpiece :)
A while back, I realised that I've read basically nothing set in the Caribbean, and that the few books I *have* read were action and adventure type books written by white authors.
This book is essentially a series of short stories, told from the perspective of a young boy growing up on Miguel Street in Port-of-Spain.
Each chapter/short story revolves around a different resident of the street - their life, their friendships, their relationships.
So really, this was on track to be a four star book for me.
This was written in the 1950s, and every second story seemed to involve domestic violence in some way.
There's a LOT of domestic violence, basically.
Miguel Street was the third novel published by V S Naipaul, except that it is not really a novel.
He wrote this collection of vignettes before he had published any novels, so it makes sense that it is actually composed of short stories about different characters who live on this street in Port of Spain, Trinidad.
Because I had already read and enjoyed those I felt at home in Port of Spain.Now I am looking forward to his breakout novel A House for Mr Biswas, published in 1961.
I read this book for the first time as part of my literature class and I remember loving all the characters.
This is one of my favorite V.S. Naipaul's books.
I love a book with amazing characters, the kind that stick with you and that is what you get when you read Miguel Street.
Having re-read this book as an adult, specifically as an adult living in Trinidad and Tobago- the country that the book is set, there was something even more special on the second read.
If you are look for an exceptional look into Caribbean life this is a great book to get started!
On the one hand, I wanted to read something set in the Caribbean with a pinch of his Indian background, on the other hand, I wanted the book to not be too long.
So I settled for "Miguel Street" - a type of novel, where each chapter is dedicated to one character.
S. Naipaul has several themes running through novel, which integrates the chapters well.
Overall, the book was alright, but I still feel I haven't really read a true novel by V.
S. Naipaul yet."If a man want something, and he want it really bad, he does get it, but when he get it he don't like it."
كالعادة لا يصح الثناء علي الكاتب قبل الثناء علي المترجم الذي أستطاع أن ينقل الرواية بهذا الشكل الرائ
Miguel Street written by V.S. Naipaul is a breathtaking novel about the people.
The narrator, whose name is never revealed, recalls his encounters and memories with each one of the people living on Miguel Street.
As the novel progresses, the narrator grows up and develops his own identity.
V.S. Naipaul provides the reader with an insight of the life in Trinidad and Tobago, the life of the black community and more specifically, the life of a colonized black community.
The search for identity, corruption, education, social division and domestic violence are the most prominent themes along the novel, all of which characterize the people on Miguel Street, and consequently, the people of Trinidad and Tobago.
قصص وحكايا عن الحياة الشعبية في ترينداد يختصرها الأديب الفائز بجائزة نوبل للآداب نايبول في نطاق جغرافي واحد الا وهو شارع ميجل ببساطة سكانه ليصور لنا جزء من الحياة الاجتماعية في ترينداد
But we got back about ten or twelve of our cricket balls."I feel like I know this street, its residents, and the rhythms of life here.
But when I know that in your nonfiction you have claimed that the African race is hopeless and does not know how to improve its own situation, and I see that most residents of Miguel Street are black, the implications get more disturbing.Since this is a rant, not a review, it might seem like there's much more negativity in my feelings toward this book than positivity, and that 3 stars is me being generous.
I asked Mel for a book set in Trinidad and Tobago, and she mentioned she read this one in school.
This slim, little volume is about a street in Port of Spain (the capital of TTO) and the collection of short stories about the interesting characters and happenings on this street.
Women are mentioned and part of stories, sometimes even the supposed protagonist, but all in context of a man though.
I feel like I enjoyed the book more because of that, than I would have if I read it 3 years ago.
But there are enough characters and stories in this book that I hope you enjoy it too.
A collection of short stories about growing up in Miguel Street in Trinidad.
The narrator is being brought up by a single mum and the stories revolve around the different characters living in the street.
There are 17 chapters which talk about Bogart, George, B.Wordsworth which I thought the saddest one about a poet and the loss of his wife.
Titus Hoyt the teacher who wants recognition to Hat and his antics.
One common thread I did not like was the continual domestic and child abuse as part of the norm.
Of course it was a different era but it still does not make it right.
Miguel Street, put simply, is a story about a corner in Port of Spain, Trinidad and its inhabitants.
Using these colorful characters, Naipaul shapes the many universal yet complicated emotions of love, hope and jealousy into a story about life and its many unpredictable phases for the inhabitants of Miguel Street.
Naipaul crafts this story by charting the lives of inhabitants through the lens of a young boy growing up in Miguel Street which I found to be profound in many ways.
All in all, these general themes and colorful characteristics mixed with the ambivalence towards the colonial rule makes Naipaul’s Miguel Street a simpler masterpiece.
Naipaul effectively pieces together the individual stories of various members of Miguel Street, as observed through the central narrator--a young man reflecting upon his childhood, from a physical and emotional distance.
The layers of the novel and the textured lives of its characters resoundingly prove that Miguel Street is not merely a "slum," as a stranger would conclude from "driv[ing] through Miguel Street." Rather, it is a "world, where everybody [is] quite different from everybody else." This notion is utterly conveyed by the vignette style Naipaul employs, in addition to the woven emotions of humor with a tinge of sadness.
All in all, Naipaul's writing draws the reader into the vibrant life of Miguel Street, lending the understanding of life in a poor Port of Spain neighborhood in the early mid-twentieth century.

A stranger could drive through Miguel Street and just say 'Slum!' because he could see no more. But we, who lived there, saw our street as a world, where everybody was quite different from everybody else. Man-man was mad; George was stupid; Big Foot was a bully; Hat was an adventurer; Popo was a philosopher; and Morgan was our comedian.
One of Naipaul's early works; it gave me a sense of place within a poor Trinidadian neighborhood, and the various inhabitants and interactions. There tends to be a dark, futility to their lives, but I found some humor too. I enjoyed this book for its clarity, its characters, and its poignancy.
I found this book thanks to my neighbor who was kind enough to pass the book on to me ... I enjoy finding new authors to me ... great chance to check out a book/author you might always know or ever see ... I enjoyed this read ... couldn't put it down. I've never traveled overseas ... but in this book you get to go to Spain... maybe one day I will get the chance. Set during WW1. Well written ... great read. Check it out. ( :
خیابان میگل کتاب خاص و شاهکاری نیست.احساس ادم قبل و بعد خواندن کتاب فرقی نمیکند.خواندنش به همه هم پیشنهاد نمیشود!ولی با سطرها و ادم های داستان اشنایی جالبی هست که انگار این کاراکترها را بارها خوانده ایم و دیده ایم وخود خیابان با وجود غریبه بودنش انقدرملموس است که هرلحظه چشم ها را ببندی تمامش را تصور میکنی.هروقت بی توقع خاستین کتاب بخونین خیابان میگل و بخونین.
حكايات من ترينداد علي لسان صبيذاكرة ترينداد بعين صبي
عجبتني و استفدت من طريقة ترجمة المترجم للكتاب اكتر ما عجبني الكتاب نفسه..
