https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24937499-her-final-breath
Despite that, Tracy is assigned as the lead detective in a serial killer case, in which several dancers have been murdered.
But, when Tracy sees a link between these crimes and another murder which took place years earlier, things kind of get sticky.
I’m looking forward to seeing what the future has in store for her in the next chapters of the series.But, until then, this book was every bit as impressive as the first, showing promising development, along with clever plotting, and top notch suspense.
Like the first, My Sister's Grave, the author hits the ground running and never looks back.As the book opens, Crosswhite has just come back to work after dealing with the retrial of the man who killed her sister several years earlier.
Reviewing the case, Crosswhite wonders if Nolasco arrested the wrong man, something that will hardly endear her to a supervisor who already has her in his sights.As the number of victims mounts, so does the pressure on Tracy and her team to find the killer.
I think that the murderer, called the Cowboy, is one threat.
The 10 year old murder that may be linked to the current crimes is another.
The info leaked to the media which discredits Tracy is another such element.Tracy's abilities are honed by practice.
The cases in the book take their toll on her.
Her crimes more horrific.
Her deductive abilities are more feral.Robert Dugoni sometimes not only pulls the rug from under you, but rebuilds the whole room around you, without you knowing about it.
The book is written with occasional shows of brilliance.
Strange how it slips into position and draws tighter and tighter until.....Much like the rapid details and the tangled and twisty storyline here in Her Final Breath by Robert Dugoni.
Tracy is still suffering from the everlasting trauma of her sister's murder in the previous book.
The Cowboy leaves no clues behind and is meticulous in exiting his crime scenes.Frustrated, Tracy and her team feel the pressure from the higher-ups to close this case once and for all.
Robert Dugoni has the fine talent to raise the stakes even higher in Her Final Breath.
4 Stars for Robert Dugoni's 2nd Tracy Crosswhite Thriller This installment had a solid plot and the mystery keeps you guessing till the very end.
I must admit I did have the killer in mind but I had it narrowed down to 2 possibilities - so it still kept me guessing until the big reveal.
In this book Tracy is tasked with finding a serial killer that is killing exotic dancers with an intricate knot that basically makes them strangle themselves to death.
Not only is Crosswhite up against "the Cowboy" (the killer) but she also has a stalker and Nolasco maliciously interfering with her investigation at every turn to contend with.
4.5 stars!Great book!
The plot was solid, the clues are scarce and you really have no clue who the killer is until the end.
The locations in the book were in Seattle and they were on point (even Hooverville Bar!).I enjoyed the characters.
I enjoyed hating him in this book.This is the second book of Robert Dugoni's that I have read.
I'm enjoying his books!
He writes realistic books on police procedure, the police culture, attorney language and how the court system seems to run.
It's nice to have the realistic with the fiction in books.
It makes the book more believable.
Tracy has returned to her job as a homicide detective with the Seattle police department where she is assigned to work on a series of murders.
A serial killer, dubbed "the Cowboy", is targeting exotic dancers.
In her investigation Tracy discovers a decade old homicide with strong possible ties to the current series of homicides.
I believe that in this story Tracy's skills as an investigator are even more apparent.
Her investigation into the decade old homicide puts her career in jeopardy.
Tracy is still suffering from the death of her sister and her job as homicide detective does not help bring closure.
Crosswhite takes the lead on a task force only when more dancers turn up killed by the same method, but she cannot shake the fact that Dan has uncovered some damning evidence, where an innocent man might be serving time.
Crosswhite keeps his investigation under the radar and turns to DNA in her current cases, hoping to determine if there is anything the killer is leaving behind.
With Crosswhite in the apparent killer's crosshairs, a violent event brings the case to a climax, with Nolasco basking in his role as leader.
Would Book #2 hold my interest?The Line - ”He had time to kill”.
Would his character, Tracy Crosswhite continue to entice me?
Her Final Breath is only the second in the Tracy Crosswhite series.
I like her spunky spirit, the people she surrounds herself with, the Seattle landscape, her dedication to her career, and her determination to bring killers to justice and provide a sense of closure to a victim’s family.
Detective Crosswhite believes there is a tie between these recent deaths to a cold case in which a man has been accused and is serving time in prison.
What a pleasant surprise this turned out to be!I had requested book 1 and book 2 of Dugoni's new police procedural series from NetGalley at about the same time.
I took a chance-I mean it Robert Dugoni...they have to be good!Unfortunately, My Sister's Grave, introducing Detective Tracy Crosswhite left me feeling a bit underwhelmed.
If I hadn't already received book 2, I guarantee you I would never had requested it.
I recommend for all who love a good who-dun-nit, just make sure you read them in order.ARC proved by NetGalley
In HER FINAL BREATH by Robert Dugoni is Book 2 in the Tracy Crosswhite detective series.
Having already read book 1, My Sister’s Grave and really enjoying it, and being approved for the 3rd book in the series, In The Clearing, through NetGalley, and quickly went ahead and purchased Book 2.
In HER FINAL BREATH, Homicide detective Tracy Crosswhite returns to the Seattle Police Department after the retrial of her sister’s killer.
It is very evident and adds immensely to the enjoyment of this book.Now I look forward to read the third book in the series, called, In The Clearing.
Yes......ROBERT DUGONI......remember his name because in my humble opinion is a brilliant author I hadn't heard of before this series.
Waiting bated breathe for his next written work.BOOKWe met Tracy Crosswhite in book 1.
I liked how the author slowly moved up a notch at a time leading the reader to put all the learning processes into order, so much so, it kept me hanging on every written word.
Nevertheless, I can't rave about this author, this book, this series enough.
And I certainly cannot wait for my next from Robert Dugoni.
Really enjoyed this book.Robert Dugoni books always keeps me guessing to the end. He has created very strong female character, she might be hardheaded but knows right from wrong and does her job. She has incompetent boss and lazy lawyer to deal with, good honest partner and her loving caring boyfriend is in her side ready to help her, when she needs it. Even when she didn't know she needed their help. Little slow at the beginning, stay with it and you'll be rewarded.
Because the killer has struck again and it seems that they have a serial killer loose that is targeting exotic dancers.I had a much harder time getting into the story in this book, I just felt that the case wasn't that interesting, at least not as interesting as in the first book.
And, part of me feels that the angle with the main character being targeted is used way too many times in thrillers/crime novels.
I like that the loose ends from the first book are taken care in this book and that the ending wasn't all too obvious even though I had a suspicious feeling towards the end before the confrontation who the exotic dancer killer was and I was right.
I had thoroughly enjoyed the first book in this, the Tracy Crosswhite series and was looking forward to reading this second instalment.
With the Cowboy on the hunt, can Tracy find the evidence to stop him, or will she become his next victim?I found the method of killing that the serial killer employs in this book, particularly the psychology behind these methods once some reveals roll out towards the end of the book.
A solid crime read, a series I am really enjoying and I am certainly looking forward to reading and reviewing book three.
Her Final Breath by Robert Dugoni is the second book in the Tracy Crosswhite series.
It starts where the first book ends off and is a great police procedural for all mystery lovers.Tracy Crosswhite is on a trail of a serial killer called The Cowboy who is killing strippers.
On the heels of this killer Tracy is also being followed by a stalker.
Tracy and her team are facing pressure from the higher ups to close the case fast while somebody is feeding information to the media thus increasing the pressure.Overall, I would rate this book 4 stars.
This is a good series set in the Northwest--this book in Seattle--with a range of well-drawn characters. Dugoni keeps the mystery going right to the end with great pacing. Her Final Breath is well-researched. My only beef, and it is a small one, is that bullets don't knock people backward as described in chapter 52. The physics don't operate that way. People just fall after they've been shot. (Credit: law enforcement officer Lee Lofland.)I am looking forward to reading books #3 and #4 in the Tracy Crosswhite series with the fifth due out September 2017.

Second book of a series can sometimes be a disappointment, but not this one!
I enjoyed this one just as much as My Sister's Grave.Tracy Crosswhite is a Seattle cop.
I think what makes her a bit unique is that she doesn't have a lot of baggage or vices.
She still feels guilty about her sister's death, though she shouldn't.
She's at the beginning of a happy, loving relationship with a childhood friend.
I really like her!There is a character in this book to hate, and it's not the perp.
Tracy's boss is Capt.
I love to have a character to hate.I'm looking forward to reading the third book.
But like so many times before I got lost in my to be read pile and it was only when someone reminds me of the book that I decided it was time to jump back into this series.
Much like the first book a lot of time is devoted to the actual mechanisms of how a police case unfolds.
The realism of how they follow each lead and clue is one of the things that help the story jump off the page.
And in doing this he created a story that felt very creepy and jumped off the page.
Back in Seattle, Tracy Crosswhite's investigation into the death of stripper Nicole Hansen is derailed by her boss, Johnny Nolasco, deciding it was a cold case.
When additional strippers start dying in the same heinous manner, involving self-strangulation with a noose and Rophynol, Tracy is named to head the task force to find the serial killer, nicknamed Cowboy.
Lots of suspects, and Nolasco is systematically undermining the investigation while Tracy finds a ten-year old case, with obvious similarities, which Nolasco "solved." Cowboy is elusive, calculating, and carries a major grudge, but makes one small mistake, helping Tracy bring him to justice.
The one nit is the dizzying, improbable acceleration of the plot from Tracy being benched to the ending.
Phenomenal!Excellent suspense, captivating storyline, extraordinary heroine!
Unfortunately, I missed the first one My Sister's Grave Thanks to Net Galley, I happened across this one and could not resist.Tracy Crosswhite is a detective with the Seattle PD.
There is some bad blood between her and her boss ( more of this in Bk 1), so it comes as a surprise when her boss places her in charge of a task force.
He is abducting dancers/strippers, hogtying them with a particular rope and then letting them strangle themselves.
I love Tracy Crosswhite, I love her team, I even love her cat, Roger.
I really enjoyed the first Tracy Crosswaite story, My Sisters Grave, so was looking forward to reading the second, Her Final Breath and am delighted to say that I liked it even more than the first read.
There are plenty of suspects and red herrings galore in this read which really gripped me as it twisted and turned its way to a very dramatic conclusion.
It is definitely a read that I couldn’t second guess at all.
2 and 1/2Copy for Review from the publisher via NetGalley.I have to admit I'm a little disappointed.
I did not enjoy this book as much as the first ("My Sister's Grave").
I kept hoping it was going to get exciting.
Sounds interesting, isn't it?That's why I asked for a copy.But for some reason I couldn't get into the characters or the story.
Maybe, it was too lengthy with lots of unnecessary details.
[And I like details and police procedurals very much!]I'll give the author another chance, I am reading the (freebie) Kindle Short Reads: "The Academy: A Short Story".
Good second book in a series that I am really enjoying.
Not only is he old school he bears a 20-year grudge from when her time at the police academy.It suits him to set her up as the lead detective in a task force considering a serial killer of exotic dancers.
When he finds out he throws her to the wolves; but she isn't like him, the investigation has been based on hard work and people tend to trust her and seek her out when they have a lead or want to share information.The author writes so well the book reads itself.At first for the initial 100 or so pages it is frenetic but laying down the story; you can dip in and out as time affords.
Very much enjoyed this second book in the Tracy Crosswhite series.
I will definitely continue on with reading all of them.
Tracy is a great character, bold yet humble and easy to feel a friendship with.
She's great at what she does, and the author does a marvelous job writing her.
Her main case in this book is to find the Cowboy, a serial killer on the loose in her area.
But are things as they seem?
Could someone in the department be hiding something?
And does someone have their eyes on Tracy?
You have to read the book to find out!
Tracy Crosswhite is back in Seattle and is soon caught up in a murder investigation that looks like a career killer.
So naturally her captain (Nolasco) gives her the lead hoping she will fail.Exotic dancers are being found dead in cheap motel rooms.
No clues, no suspects and no progress keeps Nolasco on Tracy's back.
She looks into older cases with a similar MO and finds one that could be the same killer.
The only problem is Nolasco was one of the pair that solved that crime and a man is serving a prison sentence for it.
And what is his problem with Tracy anyway?
I definitely felt that Dugoni upped his game with the second book in this series.
For this reason, I thought it provided an opportunity for Tracy to show her skills as a detective; along with her fellow cops, she does much of the legwork in this one, whereas her boyfriend, Dan, provided a lot more assistance in the previous book.
She's intelligent, capable, and has a bit of an attitude, but she's still a woman and allows herself to think outside of the 'i'm a ball busting female cop and so can't be at all feminine' stereotype.
(hide spoiler)]Many thanks to Robert Dugoni, Netgalley, and Thomas & Mercer for this copy in exchange for an honest review.
