https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/886985.Mountain_Born
For even though Mountain Born has been an interesting and enlightening read (and I do appreciate exposing children both then and now to the often hard lives of shepherds and that raising animals for market in bygone days was rough and sometimes even potentially devastating work) and while I do sweetly enjoy how Peter and Biddy forge such a loving, tender bond, that Biddy is therefore in all ways more than simply a pet lamb for Peter, the antics and the general behaviours of Peter's ewe are at least in my humble opinion not all that obviously ovine, but rather much more canine in nature (not that Biddy is a hunter or a carnivore, of course, but simply that she acts and behaves much more like a typical farm dog, a typical guardian sheepdog than a sheep).
Both families are significantly more well-off than Laura's, but that's because they didn't keep going west to pioneer like Pa!I liked that there were basically two sections: the first, as Peter gets just old & big enough to be a real helper, and the second, as he's actually considered ready for a young man's work & responsibilities.
The in-between years are skipped - which makes for a more concise and engaging book, in my opinion.
We see life throughout a year, and we see the cosset grow up and (view spoiler)[her ewe lamb grow up and take over as leader of the flock (hide spoiler)].
I finished reading this to my kids today. I cried.
This gentle story of a boy, a lamb, love and loss, is a 1944 Newbery honor book. It is a light, delightful read.
This is a book about a boy and his lamb but it is also about life and mentoring and the correct way to raise up a child.
"Aye, a Book," Benj repeated, lovingly.Then Peter knew what book it was."You mean the one we hear read from at church on Sundays?" he asked.Benj nodded.
"My father read from it every day.""There are sheep in it, aren't there?" Peter asked."Sheep aplenty," Benj answered, "and a boy named David looking after some of them."
In a day and age when life is fast-paced and so are the best-selling books of the day, it is nice to return to a book that is "quiet," as one reviewer noted.
This book brings me back to time spent on various farms (in Wisconsin, in Florida, in Indiana, as a child, as a married man, as a young father, and as an older father).
This story describes a boy growing to be a responsible young man as he is guided through life by his father and an elder mentor.
It is also about a young boy learning about the "stuff of life" (birth, death, love, friendship, business sense, and responsibility).
I absolutely adored this simple, beautiful story.
I read it as a bedtime story to my little boys who will never experience being a shepherd firsthand but, thanks to this book, received important life lessons all shepherds must learn.
Most of the book is religiously neutral, but there's a part in the middle when the strong but silent Benj talks about the only book his family had growing up.
It's very sweet and talks about the sheep and shepherds in the Bible in such simple terms.
If you love the Little House on the Prairie books, you'll likely love Mountain Born.
This is an extraordinary story, set in the sparsely populated mountains, of growing up and getting to know oneself and of real love for family and those people we would be lucky enough to call true friends.
I can very much see how this was given a Newbery Honor citation in 1944, though it was certainly bad luck for Mountain Born to have been published contemporaneously with the classic "Johnny Tremain".
I highly recommend this lovely, tender story to anyone who likes books that are infused with wisdom, warm humor, and an innate sense of decency and heart.
It is an excellent story.
I loved this book for children, well-written by Elizabeth Yates, and beautifully illustrated by Nora S. Unwin. It was about a young boy growing up and learning both the pleasant and difficult aspects of raising sheep. The book rang true for me, based on experiences I had visiting my grandfather's farm as a child. (He had cattle, chickens and often a hog but had previously raised sheep as well).I can certainly see why it was a Newberry honor book in its time.
I liked this very much! Very descriptive and conservative. Includes allusions to and quotations from Scripture. It does end rather abruptly, leaving one with several questions. Well-deserving of the Newberry Honor it received.
My edition has the ISBN 9780890847060, but the cover image matches this one.
A truly beautiful book, and a tear jerker for any mom with young sons.
Mom's pick for read aloud time.
This is a simple but very sweet read-aloud. It is very well-written and it is the first time I consistently had my son doing (oral, I typed) narrations, so that may have had something to do with how we enjoyed it. We will remember it so much more thanks to having had to stop and process. Mountain Born really does make you appreciate the sheep imagery in Scripture more than just the classic sermon explanation, "sheep are dumb." Each character was also endearing!
I liked this one pretty well. We read it for school, and I think most of it went over the kids' heads (ages 6, 7, and 9). Lots of the story was told in a roundabout way, with action implied but not stated; then there were all the metaphors and moral lessons. Sometimes I stopped to explain what had just happened, but for the most part, I just read through. Good book, not great for this particular age range.
I loved the book! I was reading it to my daughter and I'm not sure she got it as much as I did. Perhaps she can re-read it again when she is bigger. Yes, I'll put this book in her "reading challenge list" when she is in year 6.
Read this as a bedtime book to our kids, ages 5-9. It's sweet and simple, with good lessons. Nothing exciting or complicated, but it had a depth in it's own quiet way. Some of the language is quite dated, so be ready for that, but overall it was a pleasant read.
I read this book to my children twenty-one years ago when I was homeschooling them. This story is still a teriific read to now grandchildren. So many discussions came from this story from Biblical to the nitty gritty life of a shepard and his sheep. One of my favorite books.
My 2nd and 3rd grader wasn’t very interested in this book. As difficult as it was to keep their attention with this one we trudged through and made it to the end. We read the book as part of Sonlight Curriculum. I would highly recommend skipping it and choosing another book to fill the space.
As typical with this author, you will travel into the life of a forgotten time of simplicity. It is gentle to almost boring, perhaps just aimed at a much younger audience than I pictured. I read it because it was an award winner.
There is so much good in this little package. This book is a quick read, but it is also rich and full.
Such a charming heart warming story. This was perfect to read with my 7 year old son. We both read it individually and will discuss it tomorrow at our summer family bookclub dinner.
Read-aloud for school. Although the story itself is lovely and slow and rich, I just had the hardest time reading it aloud! None of us really loved it.
This book is one of my favorites now.
Sweet little read aloud about a boy and his lamb.
I'll definitely encourage my nephews to read this one. A breath of fresh mountain air in a jet-set world.
i liked it
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13118390
A good book I read for school, it was extremely short but cute. There's lots of good quotes and wisdom...it wasn't extremely interesting and it ended off on a bit of a depressing note, however. 3.5 stars out of 5.
The writing is beautiful and rich and there were so many little nuggets of wisdom nestled within its pages - wisdom that a momma is always happy to have her son reading.
If we care for them all a little we won't feel the hurt too much when we part with one."" A man must have a care to what he puts in his mind, for when he's alone on a hillside and draws it out he'll want treasures to be his company, not regrets."  Elizabeth Yates is not an author I'm familiar with, but after this book, I'll be seeking more titles from her.
