https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70191.Salome_of_the_Tenements
Sonya is a poor Russian-Jewish immigrant; John Manning is the upper-crust WASP.
He can give me the high things of heaven and the beauty and abundance of the earth." (p 7)I thought that her attitude would improve as the book progressed, but what we see is a woman who cared so much for fine clothes and other superficialities that she used her "womanly wiles" to get what she wanted from everyone else.
Her goal was to hook the man, and come hell or high water that is what she was going to do.(view spoiler)[She does grow a pair by the end of the book.
Sonya is pissing me off immensely
NO
"We kill the divine in us. We kill the beauty in those we love. But the very killing makes immortal the contact."
una ragazza povera e ardente che cerca di sollevarsi dalla miseria del ghetto ebreo di new york. un miliardario filantropo, un corteggiamento serrato e folle, la ricerca disperata della bellezza salvifica, il matrimonio e due mondi inconciliabili che non si incontreranno mai, gli abissi della disperazione e la rivincita. la verità è che davanti all'amore non esistono differenze sociali né ricchezza e povertà. modernissimo romanzo degli anni '20.
I enjoyed the book very much. If I could read it in one sitting, I probably would have. The ending was a bit disappointing. I felt as though Yezierska had enough of the novel and didn't complete it properly.
Made me thing a lot about beauty, the "ready-made" clothing industry, and immigration
a 1920's "love" story that nails the rich and their so-called charity.
This is a wonderful period piece dealing with social issues esp. those affecting Russian/American women. Interesting love story too. A great read!
It celebrates the force of beauty and creativity.Yes, Sonya is totally misguided in her drive to marry rich, a situtation that can only end badly for such a mismatched couple, despite what they profess.
The novel shows neither the Lower East Side Jews or the Fifth Avenue Presbyterians in a good light.I am surprised by the number of negative reviews written by those who evaluate the manipulative witch that is Sonya by today's standards.
But by the standards of the early 20th Centruy, women had hardly any opportunity to lift themselves out of grinding poverty without the forces of sheer willpower.
I really loved this book!
The language is beautiful and I think the end is inspiring as well as sincere.
It is great to finally have a female Quixote figure who isn't just upset with romance and seduction.
It might seem like that later in the book, but hold on for a little while and near the end, you will see it fit into something else.
Yezierska's language is beautiful, at some points too beautiful for the story that it is describing.
There are a lot of phenomenal quotes about beauty, passion, and desire and the story is an interesting one as well.
I read this book to prepare for a booktalk at the end of the month. Otherwise, I would not have finished it. The fact that it was published under Radical Novels Reconsidered gave me hope that I might like it. This is a series of mid-century, left-wing books, re-issued in the 1990s, with new biographical information. The introduction by Gay Wilentz was the best part of the book. See El's review on Goodreads for a book review..
Enjoyable novel. Sonya is indeed, "full of life" and a likeable character. Definitely a forgotten classic.
Really interesting in the historical context. Reads like early Jewish theater in NY - dramatic, histrionic, melodramatic.
