https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688489.Technics_and_Civilization
From how monks invented clocks to control social order through technics that concentrated power including through industrial revolution this likely is one of the most influential books ever on this old, thoroughly sodden mind of a historian dad, philosopher wife, sociologist. Excellent for political or economic sociology or anthropology. The historical and cultural background for those of us teaching the "new" field of STS (Science, Technology, Society) or Science Studies.
Writing in the early 1930's Lewis Mumford offers a sweeping viewing of technological development over the past thousand years of human history.
But Mumford is far from a simple chronicler of technological achievement and failure.
Indeed, Mumford's insights into, criticisms of, and prescriptions for technological development are fascinating.
Instead, Mumford calls for a critical evaluation of technological systems and devices relative to the nature, abilities, and goals of human beings that possess a rich thought life that resists an overly simplistic regimentation.
Apart from the various insights Mumford offers, he is also pleasure to read.
Many people in America looked to the Soviet Union as an alternative system that distributed the goods of society more evenly across the population, avoiding the bulk of wealth moving to the top while leaving the masses out.Lewis Mumford was one of those who felt this way and in the last chapters of this book he makes this plain.But before he does so, he paints a detailed picture of the history of the machine and civilization that had me making notes and dog-earing many pages.Mumford divides history into three periods.
I think a whole book could be written on the clock.
But in terms of social life, may of the most extravagant advance of the machine have proved to rest on the invention of intricate means of doing things which can be performed at a minor cost by very simple ones.
In its advanced state, it rests upon rational organization, social control, physiological and psychological understanding.
He goes on to say that the crude state requires use of force and power to exert itself.
I just don't understand why I didn't read this before: the most important book about the history of technology, the history of media, the history of power, OUR history.
If you don't want to know shit about the world you inhabit than don't read this book. If you do.... Get to it bitch!
Neotechnic phase began to conserve materials3.
The planning of human regions is the most important neotechnic innovations2.
The romantic movements were important correctives to what the machine left out2.
This is the ideological turn that sets us on the road to the here and now - and our largely uncritical acceptance of machines and machinery that might, indeed, get shit done, but only at the expense of those who service and administer them, those who share their environment (increasingly, a global one!) and those who live in the shadow of their ruling conceits (i.e. all of us!)But, and this is essential, as Mumford makes explicitly clear: this scientistic perspective was never 'objective' in the first place - as the 'objective' truth is that there are complex living creatures (and systems) in the world that, once you dismantle or reduce them, cease to live.
An interesting book, although I got seriously bogged down in the final third or so when he discusses his own emerging technical period (the "neotechnic" as he called it)For a book that is all about material culture it is very idealistic, Mumford is constantly talking about how the paleotechnic phase (generally the late 18th through early 20th centuries, what most people would call the industrial revolution) was dominated by the 'spirit of the miner' and so on.
I was also disturbed by his seemingly approving quotation of Oswald Spengler; in particular he mentions the concept of the pseudomorph:"Spengler points to the common fact in geology that a rock may retain its structure after certain elements have been leached out of it and been replaced by an entirely different kind of material.
A classic study of the entanglement of technology and society. Dated, of course, but Mumford's text is still provocative for those of us thinking about the intersections of culture and new technologies today. A must-read for anyone working in tech or on tech.
the last chapter is obviously outdated, but the main (historical) part of the book is absolutely outstanding
I have no problems with his Marxian approach (although at times very critical of Marx because that is for him an outdated paleotechnic thinking).
I also think that his reasoning of bringing the production of energy under public control merits a lot of attention, especially in his arguments that increasing too much the available energy does not help us solving issues better, it just creates more stuff that we need to buy.
Don't get me wrong, I do think that the neoliberal policies since the nineties aren't necessarily better, and that counting on the profit motive to solve our problems will not help either.
Written in 1934, this is a great (though not complete) review of technological progress up to that point. It's a little bit fatalistic in its last couple of chapters, which is sort of ironic given the rest of the book concludes that the fear of automation replacing humans throughout time was warrantless as people are generally not imaginative enough to believe next period's great new technology will mean things, on the whole, will be alright. Indeed if you replace the word "machine" with "AI/robots" in many areas, you get a funny feeling, the author lives with us today!
"Unutar moderne civilizacije postoji čitava serija kompenzatorskih funkcija koje, daleko od toga da omogućavaju bolju integraciju, služe samo da stabilizuju postojeće stanje i naposletku same postaju deo disciplinovanog sistema protiv koga se bore. Među ovim institucijama su najvažniji masovni sportovi. Oni se mogu definisati kao oni oblici organizovane igre u kojima je gledalac mnogo važniji od igrača". (339 str.)
-Considerar al hombre ante todo como un animal que usa herramientas equivale a pasar x alto los principales capítulos de la historia de la humanidad. Hombre es 1ro animal fabricante de espíritu.-Técnica como apoyo expresión humana.-Irracionalidad del hombre.-Cerebro > manos. Ritos, lenguaje, organización social > herramientas.
I envisioned it as a short tract, instead what I found was a glorious 450+ page in-depth philosophical examination the modern relationship of culture and the industrial machine as well as the historical events and trends that all had to converge to get to the dominance of technocratic thinking in our society at the time.
A modern way to say this would be something like, "There are aspects of life and human happiness that no cell-phone app or gadget you can buy will ever be able to help someone with."3) He basically calls bullshit on the entire culture of production, advertising and identity consumerism.
Finished this a while back and simply forgot to review it.
Mumford writes well and his views on the evolution of machines and their importance to human development are impressive.
The book masters a wealth of historical detail without bogging the reader down in reams of statistics.
What makes the book so much more than a sort of history of technology is Mumford's sensitivity to so many aspects of human existence--his comments on the impoverished sex life of the working class (to take just one example) show a humane awareness of the costs and benefits of technology that is never dewy-eyed or sentimental.
One of the first books to analyze technology as a separate force that influences and shapes civilization.
Mumford divides the history of civilization into three phases, the eotechnic, paleotechnic and neotechnic and analyzes the impact machines made upon society and intellectual life.
Naturally since it was written pre-atomic age, let alone computers, the outlook is of its time, but his historical analysis is still fascinating, and I heartily agree with his prescription for a kind of rational socialism as the highest and necessary phase of mechanical civilization (while holding no belief that it can actually happen).

This is probably the longest book that I have read — thus far. But 430+ pages was definitely worth it. The book brilliantly illustrates the impact that an invention can have on man and his environment, and, the impact which the environment can have on man. For example, the impact which the invention of glass (which led to the invention of the mirror) had on human beings; namely, the introduction of the notion of "self-consciousness."
Mumford is a modern day (1934) prophet. If you have any interest in human development, history, organizational behavior, or how technology evolves and impacts the human race, read this now. Take you time though, this is a dense book, packed with wisdom. Read it like a bible...small chunks daily.
Nicholas Carr mentioned this book in his now-famous essay, Is Google Making Us Stupid? which ran in The Best American Science and Nature Writing 2009.
Thought this was fascinating. :)
This is one of his best. Mumford is very important reading.
Essential.
Mumford describes the ad-hoc development of cities and civilization through applied technology and provides numerous case studies that highlight the various phases of this evolution.
It' always great to go back and read Lewis Mumford's denouncements of the "megamachine" and the overly hierarchical structure of our society and his faith that we can do better.
science,cities
I'm a Mumford-ian kinda gal. More modernist than postmodernist.
Boring but interesting m8
