https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404399.The_Sun_Egg
Utterly charming! Full of the adorable woodland creatures and quirky, adorable elves that make Beskow great. I absolutely love her illustrations and this is a wonderful story to read any time of year as it follows all the seasons. Children will probably have fun guessing what the sun egg actually is before the characters do ;-)
A lovely little red-haired elf - whose dancing welcomes the returning sun in Spring, the golden leaves in Autumn, and the falling snow in Winter; and who is beloved of all the birds in the forest, because she always returns their fallen eggs to their nests - stumbles upon an unusually larger and orange egg, in this charming tale from Sweden's beloved picture-book artist, Elsa Beskow.
Convinced that the egg has fallen from the sky, and belongs to the Sun, the elf soon has her friends and comrades gathered round.
Fantastisk saga med flera dimensioner och ett mysigt, om än lite tomt, språk. Lätt att dramma sig bort, och drömma sig tillbaks till skogens dofter.
"The sun has dropped an egg and she can't see it because the cloud's in the way",, 25 February 2016This review is from: The Sun Egg (Hardcover)Verified Purchase(What is this?)A dear little book about a small elf in a wood who likes returning fallen eggs to the mother birds.
Then one day she sees a big yellow object and decides the sun has laid an egg and goes off to tell her friends - a cheeky elf, a frog who runs a restaurant (like the sign "Guests are forbidden to eat each other!") and others.
Spectacularly beautiful illustrations. Not thrilled with the story that goes along with them. Too large a cast of characters, and somewhat clunky writing - perhaps better when read in Swedish to an audience of Swedes who are familiar with the cultural context. Q: "Now that we've read it, what did you think?" DS4 &DD2: "Let's read something different."Me: 5/5 for illustrations (did I mention how beautiful they are?) 2/5 for story. Them: 2/5
Magical with lots of room for imagination.
One of the pillars of my childhood, this book has been very thoroughly read in my home.
It's cute how it incorporates Peter into the story, but the whole thing didn't totally work for me. Yeah, its that cute and old-fashioned vibe, and there are moments of silliness (because we know it's not a sun egg from the get-go!), but I don't know. The way it was written read a little awkward to me (as translations tend to do) and I kept thinking it was over before it was.
Enjoy her illustrations, even if the stories a lame or odd.
So beautiful and imaginative and archetypal and gentle. All children's books should be like this.
Another lovely book by Elsa Beskow. Kids enjoyed it very much indeed. Simple kind text, sweet illustrations.
A sweet book about a fairy who believes an orange is a "sun egg". She even migrates with the birds. Just lovely.
И тази е разкошна. Малка елфка и един портокал, в който живее бебето на слънцето:))
A happy little story for kids. We enjoyed it.
The most amazing pictures!
Stopped reading when the elf called the fairy "stupid" and threw things at her.
Stopped reading when the elf called the fairy "stupid​" and threw things at her.
Nice story with beautiful ilustrations. Kids enjoed it and they were laughing about "the sun chick" :)
Beautiful tale I remember from childhood.
I loved Elsa Beskow's books when I was little, and this was one of my favorites.
We had to shorten this a little a few of the times we read it to our 3-year old, but we did read the whole thing a few times. Some funny characters; a cute book, Beskow-style.
A family bedtime story favorite with fairies, gnomes, adventure and nature.
Ties with two others as my favorite Elsa Beskows. :) I adore the red-haired elf.
This is a lovely book that is just right for a good night story.
A sweet little tale of a young fairy who finds an orange laying in the wood one day and mistakes it to be a egg from the sun. A lovely little bedtime read to share with your little ones.
The Sun Egg is really an orange!
