https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5972.The_Sanctuary_Sparrow
In this, the seventh of the Brother Cadfael mysteries, one night during Matins a young boy quite literally bursts into the chapel, and in pursuit is a mob from the village convinced that the boy, a musician and entertainer, has committed robbery and nearly murdered someone.
Things in the Aurifaber household are far from simple, and there is plenty of tension in the air aside from the added problems the robbery and attack on Walter Aurifaber have brought about.
It feels repetitive to write another review, please see instead these two reviews:http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44...
for "The Leper of Saint Giles" and http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
They become real people because in all the books their character doesn't change; so the more you read, the more you enjoy going back to meet them again.
These characters are more than nice versus bad, they are unique individuals: one LOVES anything to do with music, another has a good heart but always breaks things and makes messes, and then of course there is Brother Cadfael (pronounced Cad-file).
As usual, the writing is NOT salacious, but lovely.
Lovely series.
These are wonderful cozy mysteries with a great cast of characters and a wonderful setting. They are even better when listened to as an audiobook.
Set in 1140, it makes no reference to its historical situation.
For that reason, lovers of mystery may prefer it while lovers of historical fiction may be less enthralled.
“No man can be wise for another.”The team of Cadfael and Hugh ferret robbers and murderers, protect the innocent, and occasionally sit down to a cup of wine in the monastic’s herbarium.
Almost medieval cozies.“God’s reach had better be longer than man’s, otherwise we are all lost.”Cadfael series: excellent historical fiction.
Though the foreground of each chronicle is a murder mystery, behind it a nation and a culture are woven in a wondrous tapestry.
Spring 1140 in Shrewsbury is a lovely time of year; peaceful and calm at the Abbey, all is well.
The mob's leader calls the sanctuary seeker a thief and murderer--serious charges, if true.And thus begins Brother Cadfael's new investigation.
Interwoven with the mysteries is a sweet love story involving our 'sanctuary sparrow' and the young serving maid in the goldsmith's house.
As the story reaches its harrowing climax a second love story comes to light, with no good outcome possible.Long time readers of the series will find much to enjoy--our favorite deputy sheriff, Hugh Beringar, is on hand to help in the investigation.
In this, one of my favorite Brother Cadfael stories (and also the first one I read long ago on a trip to Britain), attention again returns to the roles and lives of medieval women, but this time the focus is on the middle and lower classes.
You really do feel as though you are in that long-lost world lit only by fire, where it's quiet and green and life moves at a pace most people can be happy in.Cadfael is a suitably complex man.
He's lived a full life, now he wants to be quiet.
Peters has an amazing eye for historical detail, and her knowledge of such varied things as botany, criminology, psychology and the human heart is as impressive as it is extensive.
The religious aspect of the novel is never heavy-handed or overpowering, every character -- even the minors -- is three dimensional and believable, and the love stories at the heart of the mystery will pull at your heartstrings in an entirely sincere fashion.A wonderful read for anyone who's interested in history, Medieval Britain, mystery, and the television adaptations.A+ in my book, Ms. Peters.

Re-read of an old favourite. Excellent plotting.
Not quite as good as The virgin in the Ice, but a more intricate plot with Ellis Peters once again scribing fantastic dialog. I’m not sure I’ll be able to read all the books in the series, one after the other without a break, as I’m beginning to feel restless for something a little different. Maybe a couple more.
But that got me thinking about historical fiction generally, and of course Peters is trying to evoke a certain period, not write her sentences as though she lives in it.
Even so, I'm on to you, hobbledehoys.Also, as an inveterate numismatist, I was beyond excited to see mention of a moneyer in the book, a certain Godesbrond -- because coins play a small role in the course of events, it turns out.
Ellis Peters again delivers a wonderful historical mystery.
In this book, there are three couples, each couple very much in love, but in three very different ways.
The action of the story comes about naturally from who each person is, and comes to light just as naturally.
Ms. Peters does seem prone to the trope of "the first suspect is never guilty", but I hadn't realized it until just now.
But I preferred to stay immersed in the time and place of the story, than take the time to work out the plot ahead of time.
3 1/2 stars - so far my favorite one of the series, although I've only read A Morbid Taste for Bones and The Virgin in the Ice so it hasn't had a wide field to beat. This felt more like a modern mystery; lots of pretty obvious clues, character studies and very little superstition being bought into play.
With its mind-numbing combination of impeccable style and glacial pacing, this mystery novel left me wondering when it would ever end rather than inspiring any curiosity about who committed the crime.
When after a seeming lifetime had passed me by and my Kindle told me I had slogged my way through only 37% of the text, I gave a hoarse cry of despair and abandoned it.
I think it's safe to say that if you're a person who likes this kind of thing, this is the kind of thing you'll like.
I am not that person, and this is not my thing.
Great series and great reads!
So the fox must feel, acting innocently after its kind." Out of compassion for the malnourished and aggrieved young performer, Cadfael takes it upon himself to investigate.It turns out, no murder has been committed, as the mob had been braying, but the local goldsmith's entire reserve has been stolen.
The keys at her waist were her only jewellery." Keeping even their crimes closely within the family, the old woman's words on her deathbed from a stroke give Cadfael just enough information to trace the adversary she has identified and alert the law.
The title character in the seventh [1] Brother Cadfael mystery novel is a young man who escapes from a lynch mob by claiming the right of sanctuary at the abbey where Cadfael lives, after he is falsely accused of theft and murder after being cheated out of his fair wages for singing and playing a version of the viol at a wedding feast for a greedy family of merchants.
They chase a battered and bruised boy, Liliwin, that they accuse of robbery and murder of the local goldsmith, Walter.
His house is in uproar and his family is drawn into the mystery.Things become darker when another body is found in the river.
He rented rooms from the goldsmith and worked as a locksmith.
#7 in the Brother Caedfel series.[return][return]The serene rite of Matins is interrupted by a figure racing desperately for sanctuary in the church of the Abbey of Sts. Peter and Paul at Shrewsbury.
Caedfel doubts the young man s guilt, and quietly begins investigating, in his own way, into what really happened.[return][return]That sets the stage for another episode in the life and times of Brother Caedfel, Benedictine brother, who seems to spend as much of his time solving murder mysteries as he does compounding his herbal remedies for the sick.
Caedfel and his colleagues, the deputy sheriff Hugh Beringar, and the people seem far more real, for example, than those in Peter Tremayne s series about Sister Fidelma of Ireland.[return][return]An excellent read.
Two young people enlope-- right in the church (this is handled very tastefully).
All this forces him to confess to Brother Cadfael what has been happening.
But the complexity of the plot doesn't stop there-- excitement actually builds and inquisitions are made.There is a fairly exciting action-packed climax to the book.But the take home for me is the way Brother Cadfael handles these difficult situations.
Those who confess their sins to him are surprised to find that he doesn't prejudge them at all and works through their situation very wisely.I can take many pages from this guy!
I suppose I could write the same review for all of them, but since this is the one I just finished, I'll start here.
Cadfael is, as always, a fantastic character, and the medieval world is very well realized.
This particular mystery was pretty well done--sometimes she makes it pretty easy to guess who's responsible, but this time I had to put a couple of things together to guess as early as I did.The key, though, to Ellis Peters, is that she isn't a craftsman of plot so much as character and setting.
She won't write the most intricate and twisted Agatha Christie solutions--if you're the sort who only likes a mystery until you can guess whodunit, you might never finish a Cadfael.
As with most of the books of this series, it is not necessary to have read the previous books to be able to follow the actions and interactions of the characters.The book opens with the peace of the monastery being disturbed during the evening prayers by a young man running in, pursued by the townsfolk.
The man claims sanctuary, the right to be kept in the monastery for 40 days, and not turned over to the law.
Read this one on a trip out to Ohio this past weekend !
I love this series for just being a wonderful way to engage in a mystery and love story without the brutality and gore and explicit sex that often accompanies such a genre!
In this one there is not just one but a series of deaths that cause raised eyebrows and not just one but two sets of lovers !
While the messages may seem heavy, Ellis Peters always delivers these messages in a winsome intriguing story line.
I love the Brother Cadfael mysteries, and somehow missed this one when I read all of the others years ago.
In this one, a young man seeks sanctuary at the monastery as he is being pursued by a violent crowd who are accusing him of theft and murder even though he is innocent of both and has done nothing wrong.
They believe he committed those crimes and want to kill him but the abbot grants him sanctuary for 40 days, as was customary in that time period.
Fortunately,that is enough time for Brother Cadfael to find the true culprit, but not without a life-or-death stand-off near the end.
The Brother Cadfael books are always enjoyable! The characters are great, and her descriptions of scenes make everything real and bring you back to 12th Century England. In this book, a young jongleur has managed to make his way to sanctuary just in time to avoid being lynched by a mob of villagers who are certain he murdered and robbed his employer. As always, there are so many more underlying stories, and Brother Cadfael is instrumental in solving the mystery and bringing peace to the lives of all involved. It's always a pleasure to visit with Brother Cadfael!
A compelling medieval whodunnit murder mystery. This is the first Brother Cadfael tale that I've read, and I'm definitely going to read some more in the series. I chose to read this one because it is a real forensic botany mystery using plants found on the victim's body to work out where the murder took place (the body was moved after death). I teach a forensic botany course at my university and I'll be telling my students about this wonderful literary example. I'd love to know about other similar examples. If you know any, please let me know.
I do enjoy these books. This one had a young, gifted orphan at center and at risk...the one claiming sanctuary. Excellent plot and benevolent handling by Cadfael and Hugh in a joint effort to bring resolution and/or justice. Ugliness aplenty, certainly...but beauty from ashes prevails. There are some lovely interactions between some of the brothers and the young jongleur as well as oppositional forces from some members of the order. Reality. We are allowed a happy ending with this one.
This is the seventh Brother Cadfael mystery, but my first. I hadn't read any of these mysteries, but since I've always enjoyed the PBS series with David Jacobi, I thought I'd give the books a try. I'm glad I did! Cadfael's deductions are a joy, and the personal drama and conflict is very well done. I did guess who the culprit was fairly early on, but that didn't diminish my enjoyment of the novel, and there were still some surprises for me.
The brothers at Cadfael's abbey are interrupted at prayer by the intrusion of a desperate young man seeking asylum from a raging mob. The lad, Liliwen, is accused of murdering and robbing an elder of the city of Shrewsbury. Naturally, Cadfael investigates.Lots of nice twists and turns in this. I'd give it 4.5, as I liked a couple others in the series slightly better, but I'm feeling generous and I'll round up.
Missed the 6th so I am going back. This was even better than The Leper even though I figured early who and why.
