https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17496.The_Secret_Seven
5 stars 🌟 Also rant down further as I don’t like reading reviews that bash a book for ridiculous reasons!
Perfect for children as they are short as well and the writing style has a way of making the reader feel included amongst the children.
The fact that people try bashing these books is ridiculous they were written in 1940s for kids and your adults saying the language or style is poor and they are really short books but that’s the whole point meant for 7 year olds and many 7 year olds are not going to sit down and want to read 200+ page books!
The Secret Seven consists of Peter and his sister Janet, and their friends Jack, Colin, George, Pam and Barbara .
Secret Seven Adventure (1950)3.
Well Done Secret Seven (1951)4.
Well Done Secret Seven (1951)4.
Secret Seven On The Trail (1952)5.
Go Ahead Secret Seven (1953)6.
Good Work Secret Seven (1954)7.
Secret Seven Win Through (1955)8.
Three Cheers Secret Seven (1956)9.
Secret Seven Mystery (1957)10.
Puzzle for the Secret Seven (1958)11.
Secret Seven Fireworks (1959)12.
Good Old Secret Seven (1960)13.
Shock for the Secret Seven (1961)14.
Look Out Secret Seven (1962)15.
Fun For the Secret Seven (1963)
I read this to my second oldest daughter (aged 7), here's her review: Dad helped me to choose it...well, I was the one that thought of it! I liked the title but it wasn't my favourite part! My favourite part of the story is that the Secret Seven was amazing and very important. You will get a HUGE surprise when you find out the full mystery! But thanks to Jack and Peter, Kerry Blue was saved.
The Secret Seven is the first book in the series.
However they were probably also outdated in the mid 1980s when I read these books the first time, and I was never aware that they were so old fashioned through my childhood eyes.
Of course the Secret Seven come up trumps, I don't think that is a spoiler, and as an adult I finished the book with the same sense of satisfaction that I did the first time around.
Any child seeking high adventure and a story about true friendship and teamwork will find plenty in the Secret Seven books to appeal to them.
I loved it. I always have and always will.The story consists of 7 children who are friends and live locally - Peter, Janet (siblings), Jack, Barbara, Pam, Colin, George and the family dog Scamper.Each book takes them on an adventure whilst they solve a mystery.They are a little dated, but if you love kids books or have children if your family yourself i highly recommend.
Re-reading the Secret Seven with my eight year old girl and its amazing how much I can remember more than thirty-five years after originally reading the books. The characters are clear in my mind, as our the original drawings (not sure if they appear in this edition - certainly not the cover) - what really shocked me was how much of the plot I remembered. There are various bits and pieces of text which have been updated and changed, which sometimes works and sometimes doesnt, and the world it de
Re-reading the Secret Seven with my eight year old girl and it´s amazing how much I can remember more than thirty-five years after originally reading the books.
The characters are clear in my mind, as our the original drawings (not sure if they appear in this edition - certainly not the cover) - what really shocked me was how much of the plot I remembered.
There are various bits and pieces of text which have been updated and changed, which sometimes works and sometimes doesn´t, and the world it describes is very quaint and post-war Britain, but the pacing and characterisation is dead on.
For my money, the Secret Seven adventures wipe the floor with the Famous Five tales.

While searching for his badge in a snowy field late one night, Jack witnesses a strange van approaching an old house whose only occupant is a deaf and cranky caretaker.
Why are two men going to the old house and what is that strange noise coming from inside the van?
This calls for The Secret Seven to spring into action and solve the case.This is the first of Enid Blyton's Secret Seven books.
I so wanted to be a member of the Secret Seven and solve mysteries in my own back yard.
And how lovely it was to take this trip with the Seven :D :DChildhood memories of curling up with their books come back to me as I read this one.
Reading this book brought back memories of sitting atop a wall with my friends, talking about adventures and queer happenings in our society while going off to 'investigate'.
:)The first book of the series, it brought together the seven friends; Peter, Janet, Barbara, Pam, George, Jack and Colin and of course Scamper the dog.
The Secret Society had already been formed earlier in another book but they were meeting after a long time and this time to solve a mystery.
Anyway, for me this series is the weakest of all adventure series written by Blyton.
And unlike Fatty from the Five Find-Outers (another series by Blyton), he's not even funny.
The female characters are described as stupid, passive or annoying and although Blyton is known for her sexist comments in all of her books, I feel that nowhere is this more prominent than in this series.
However, I still give this book -and the series as a whole- 3 stars.
The plots are clever (remember this is a children's book) and most children dream to be able to do adventurous, exciting things in an adult-dominated world.
A fine little mystery, the first book in the Secret Seven series.
I never really liked this series as much as the Famous Five, because time and time again the girls get left out, or comments are made like it's suprising they could solve mysteries.
Even child Kirsti preferred George and her stubborn wish to be 'as good as a boy'.
Janet always tries her best, but Peter gets the final word and often makes the girls stay out of things.
They're quick and fun, if not quite as good as some of her other stories.
it's the first part of secret seven there are 7 childrens i it peter, janet, jack, barbara, pam, colin and george it's a good book for childrens above age of 6
Author: Enid BlytonIllustrator: George BrookFirst Published: 1949I remember, when I first read these, one was either a Famous Five or a Secret Seven fan.
I can't remember which side I fell.Having now read the first of each with my 7yo I find myself in the Secret Seven camp.First up, they're shorter.
(*grin*)But also I found the adventure better developed, the characters more intelligent, the problem to be solved less selfish, and the adults (they're parents) more approachable.On the negative, the girls have more of a background role in active tasks (eg they don't go on the night surveil) but they accomplish as much and are included in the solving of the mystery.
This book is really called, I think, The Stupid Seven. I mean, come on!! These guys have peas for brains. I have never heard of kids like this. It's like, "Huh! Here's some tire tracks! I wonder if I should copy them down!" Other person: "No, no, they couldn't be useful at all!" Beware this book. And especially all the other books that follow it in the series. It may cause serious brain damage. BEWARE!
Not one of her better mystery novels, to be frank. [edit: oh dear god I just realised 'Frank' was a rally bad unintentional pun here on my part.]And wearing badges with 'SS' on it is a brilliant idea after WWII. Maybe they should also shave their heads and bleach their hair blonde as well.
Much of my childhood reading involved mass produced children's mysteries -- started with The Secret Seven, graduated on to The Famous Five (also Enid Blyton) and then hit Trixie Belden and Nancy Drew. What a way to spend a childhood!
One of my all time favorites.
An easy to read book. Although I find the "Secret Seven" constant requirement of a password to their "secret meetings" rather silly.
The first of the Secret Seven books13 July 2012 Well, there are a few things that I can say about this book: the first being that it seems to be a retelling of an earlier Blyton story, The Mystery of the Secret Room. In many ways it seemed to be the same story with different characters and a slightly different mystery. The reason I say that is because both stories seem to focus around an old abandoned house and in both stories the children go to a real estate agent, where there is a 16 year old
The first of the Secret Seven books13 July 2012	Well, there are a few things that I can say about this book: the first being that it seems to be a retelling of an earlier Blyton story, The Mystery of the Secret Room.
Seriously, using a logo saying 'SS' is not something that you want to encourage children to do, and since it is also a secret society with badges and passwords and what not one has to wonder what was going through Blyton's mind at the time and what she was suggesting to her readers.
The secret society of seven children who have their own adventures in a very exciting way that will get you involved with them in every situation. I recommend it. It's for children and about age 17, however, I think that any age can read it..it's so exciting. I thought it was a horror story then I found out that it was a mystery that was solved by the secret seven at the end.
not bad i liked the suspense created to make the reader tensed which i actually feltthe story settings was greatcharacters amazing and talented
Secret seven mysteries aren't as good as Famous Five ones but still they are fun and interesting to read.
Çocukluğuma ait bir macera kitabı daha. Özlemişim
It had got facing and humorous characters, suspenseful story and simplistic language which makes it a lot of fun to read.
It builds a suspense and as the mystery isn't very difficult to comprehend if makes a good children's deceiving collection.
The plot is something just like this*This is the secret sevens first adventure together, when Jack's adventure on a snowy niche leafs then to an old house, a deaf caretaker, and a thrilling mystery *A very enjoyable book.
The characters are merry and very serious about their secret seven society with their badges and everything.
I just finished reading this book to my kids. I think I enjoyed it more than they did as they found the creepy bad guys a bit scary. Other than that I think it was well-written for their level and look forward to reading more of the series with them.
A fun children's mystery by Enid Blyton. 'The Famous Five' is generally more entertaining and captivating series, but while 'The Secret Seven' was more juvenile, the last little bit of the mystery was exciting and fun :)).
I loved the adventures these kids got up to. i grew up reading Enid Blyton Books. unfortunately i never ended up getting the whole series. i loved the freedom and the fact these kids predate scooby doo!
A Quickie ReviewIt had some old school charm going for it, but it was too short to be all that involving. Interestingly enough, my copy was from India; it was in English, and I bought it at a library sale, so...who knows?
Read this book in school in library sessions. Enid Blyton was one of the primary reasons why i took up to reading.
I don't know where all the enthusiasm went while reading this book. Maybe its the fact that am not a kid anymore? :(
