https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6116753-boom
From a financial perspective, it makes perfect sense that this book, originally published in 1992 under the title  Gridzbi Spudvetch!
It’s been nearly four year’s since the latter’s publication, and with no new adult novel on the horizon (for the time being), it makes sense to haul a title out of the archives before people forget about Haddon.
For both Haddon and the publisher, of course.The problem with repackaging these older titles is that they inevitably seem hopelessly amateur compared with the author’s current work.
Clunk goes Haddon’s sense of humor, so sharp and biting in his two adult novels.
Mark Haddon's books tell me that they contain a different kind of cuteness and innocence with them.I've read his only one book so this notion is based on that.I'm waiting to read this one real quick.
I read this to my grade 6 class. They enjoyed most parts of the novel.
This one was a total hoot! What a fantastic ride! Really quick read and so entertaining at that.
Weird little book. Funny at times but the plot is often too ridiculous. Well(view spoiler)[Aliens (hide spoiler)]are not really my thing.
I read a lot of middle grade and YA titles that indicate they are "hilarious" "uproarious" "laugh out loud." Many of them make me smile.
Jim's not so great at school.
When his sister tells him the teachers are talking about sending him to a reform-type school, Jim becomes paranoid.
Two of their most regular teachers are talking in gibberish.
Charlie becomes obsessed--to the point of breaking into one of the teachers' house...then a weirdo with a glowing blue finger threatens them at a chicken shop-- And that's all you're going to get out of me.
"Boom! is a version of your old-style Something Is Very Strange About the Teachers at My School story. You know that story. They're aliens, or monsters, or she collects the teeth of children for nefarious purposes. Love that storyline. Who hasn't thought it at one time or another? Even in college, I was pretty sure a respected art history professor of mine had probably wrested herself into life from the mud at the bottom of an archaeological dig in Sicily."Full review on Pink Me: http://pinkme.typepad.com/pink-me/201...
Que desperdício de papel...
That being said, there are juvenile fiction books that still have kept me more than engaged (The Giver comes to mind) as an adult.
So I won’t hold back...I read this book having enjoyed A Curious Incident, that I have re-read a few times.
I thought Haddon’s foreword was really insightful having finished the book.
There were moments of promise, but overall the book just felt disjointed.
It felt silly with the ‘robot language’, but maybe that’s as an adult reader.
It’s just a book and maybe I’m not adventurous but, I wouldn’t recommend this book to any adult or juvenile.
This book follows the unexpected(and rather odd) journey of a teenage boy Jimbo, his best friend Charlie and his 16-year-old Becky.
(I especially think he nailed the brother-sister relationship between Becky and Jimbo)A character I could relate to, not just to myself personally, but I felt I could almost match and place into the life of a teenage girl was Becky.
It is overall a very exciting storyline, so a 10-year old would not get bored when reading, but it does have some important morals that I think that age is mature enough to pick up on; if not understand the consequences of certain decisions made by characters throughout the book.
This was a strange little book featuring a very likeable young boy named Jim who discovers an alien plot to re-populate the Earth entirely with science fiction fans and who must, consequently, save the world.
On the whole, great fun and a quick read.
Easily 4 stars.However, this is intended as a children's lit, for ages 8-12, and as such it fails.
Therefore, 2 stars in that department.
Compromise, since Jimbo is such a great character, and the book presents a family in which the mother is a high-powered businesswoman and the father prefers gourmet cookery, reversing "traditional" gender roles in a very positive way (without being at all preachy or ironic).
3 stars.
I can understand why this didn't sell under the original title of nonsense words, but I'm not at all sure that "Boom!" is better. I'm also bugged by the rocket since there aren't any rockets in the story.But the adventure is good, the families of the two boys are interestingly developed, and the mystery of what those two teachers were talking about is a clever one.Charlie and Jimbo behave realistically, which adds to the suspense and the humor.
Plus a half star. I really liked it. I love lot's of things about his children's books from Agent Z and the Penguin from Mars onwards. One is the way the girls and boys are all active agents - things happen to them but they always put a finger, or a fist in to make a difference to the outcome. May or may not work but they go on acting. And also the way he pushes situations beyond normal and into farce. Makes me laugh and cheer the characters on.
One Sentence Review: If you didn't know it was science fiction going in, the sudden switchover might shock you, but really this is just a fun mystery with some pretty goofy sci-fi elements (and copious Britishisms) in the mix.
Ik vond het verhaal beter worden naar het einde toe.
Het las erg vlot en was heel simplistisch geschreven.
Soms vond ik het zelfs iets te eenvoudig geschreven.
Ik vind het lezen van young adult boeken doorgaans verfrissend, maar ik word graag uitgedaagd met een iets diepgaander verhaal en een bredere woordenschat.
Het zou nochtans wel een goed introductieboek zijn als je Engels leert.
Als kind had ik er vast meer van genoten.Lees: ik heb mezelf al enkele jaren ontpopt tot een vervelende, omhooggevallen lezer die zoekt naar diepgang en zeurt over een te eenvoudige schrijfstijl.
A typically farcical story from the King of farce himself, Mark Haddon. Technically a 'speculative fiction' novella, but it's completely overrun by the farce and comedy, which isn't that bad..Best friends Jim and Charlie overhear two of their teachers talking a fantastical language, and they could've sworn they saw a blue glimmer in their eyes... thus begins a lighthearted, and at times quite funny tale.
משעשע ומגניב. מתאים לגילאי בית ספר יסודי.
If you love curious incident of the dog in night-time, this is a book for you. For an unexplainable reason, I do enjoyed reading it..
Un po’ strano ma sicuramente molto divertente!
The style is charmingly straightforward, which I'd expected from The Curious Incident, but this reads half like Captain Underpants and half like Adrian Mole, neither of which I like, so it was never going to be my cup of tea. It's also YA sci-fi that takes a dig at the stereotypical sci-fi fan which irked me a little bit. Just not my thing, I guess.
We enjoy the same type of book, action packed and fiction.This book completes ‘recommended by a member of your family’ on my bingo board.I thought this was a good category because, knowing what books each other like is another way of getting to know each other, always a good thing in a family, (especially with siblings) it teaches us to share.My favourite quote from the book ‘Boom’ was “life is a cow pat sandwich, Jimbo” he sighed “with very thin bread and lots of filling”.
Lots of teenagers can make bad decisions like Becky and her boyfriend-who she dumps near the end of the novel.
The first thing potential readers should know about the book is despite the jacket copy declaring it a "hilarious adventure for all ages," the book is intended for children ages 8-12 or so.
As a result, it's very short (adult readers should be able to read it comfortably in about 90 minutes), it's entirely "clean" (no curse words, etc.), and the characters are pretty thinly developed.
The second thing potential readers should know about the book is that it's not new -- it's a retitled (and possibly revised) version of Haddon's 1993 book Gridzbi Spudvetch!, which was only published in the UK.
Приключения на макс на планетата Пльок” е смесица от почти първолашки хумор и научна фантастика с апокалиптичен оттенък.
Марк Хадън проби с това заглавие, но със същия успех бихте могли да рекламирате „Чарли и шоколадовата фабрика” като „от автора на „Кучката” и „Размяна на съпруги””.
едва ли е чела каквото и да било друго от Марк Хадън – нито случката с кучето, нито „Петното” или пък „Червената къща”.
Всъщност, Хадън е написал БУМ!
Приключения на макс на планетата Пльок” е първата му детска книга, която попада в българските книжарници, под логото на издателство Унискорп.https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Mark Haddon is good.
Just not that good here.
Just not that good here.
It's a weird little book if I'm honest.
There are some absolutely lovely moments with the dad but as he is a supporting character and this isn't his story, these moments are few and far between.
When held up in comparison to something likeCosmic by Frank Cottrell Boyce Boom!
I love Boyce.
I could fight for the brilliance of his books until the cows come home.
It looks gorgeous and that, coupled with the name of the author, will get this book a substantial audience.
It held my interest enough to finish it, but it just wasn't for me.
But I think it comes down to that this book just wasn't written for me.
It is a young adult book that really is written for that more juvenile audience (unlike The Hunger Games series, The Maze Runner books, etc., that stand up to an adult audience).
The book was silly, far fetched, and unrealistic.
I sought out this book having enjoyed others by Mark Haddon (The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time and A Spot of Bother).
Looking forward to moving on to something written for adults.
people should stop comparing this book to the dog in the night time this book is a book in its on ri
I'm actually pretty irritated that I didn't enjoy this book.
I really enjoyed the intro, where Jim throws food off a roof at his sister's obnoxious boyfriend.
The cover's awesome.
And it's nice to see a pure-sci-fi J title.
I don't read J titles as much as YA so I was really hoping to like this one.
But between a mixup about the CDs and some distractions, I lost track of the plot and although I liked elements of this (fields of bunnies!
motorcycle tricks), I just never latched on and needed to move on.
Bummer!
This is the story of a friendship and family disrupted by life on another planet.
I enjoyed the first two-thirds of the book better, because they were less far-fetched, which is strange to say about a science fiction book about aliens.
I think I enjoyed the mystery, quest and journey more than the discovery.
I found it more interesting.
I really liked the changes in Becca, including her relationship with her brother.
It is well written and right from "go" grabs the reader's attention.
I listened to this novel and I loved the reader's English accent.
I also enjoyed the English vocabulary.
My rating is a combination of how much I liked it and how much I think I would have liked it as a kid: 4 stars!
Mark Haddon is the guy who wrote 'The Curious Incident Of The Dog In The Night Time' and this is his version of a YA adventure novel.Jim and his friend Charlie hide a walkie-talkie in the teacher's lounge and discover two of them speaking in a weird language.
Are they Russian are aliens or what?
As these typically underachieving kids hunt down more clues, the secret codes and magic wrist bands suggest that they aren't Russian.
I just couldn't get into this one, as much as I really wanted to. While it seemed like the plot might take off at some point, I was 60 pages in and was pretty bored. The author has a great sense of humor, but the writing is so British that I think most of that would be lost on kids who are unfamiliar with their slang and commonly used expressions. I'm not sure who I could give this to. I think most kids in the United States would find it inaccessible.
