https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1398034.Bumi_Manusia
jangan anggap remeh si manusia, yang kelihatannya begitu sederhana; biarpun penglihatanmu setajam mata elang; pikiranmu setajam pisau cukur, perabaanmu lebih peka daripada dewa, pendengaranmu dapat menangkap musik dan ratap tangis kehidupan; pengetahuanmu tentang manusia takkan bakal bisa kemput”-	Pramoedya Ananta Toer dalam Bumi Manusia –=============================================================Aku adalah manusia.
Ironis memang, tetapi itulah yang mungkin akan terjadi padaku kalau saja tak terjadi peristiwa ituSebagai lelaki normal, wajarlah kiranya ketika kujatuh hati pada seorang perempuan.
Karena memang ini adalah Bumi manusia.
Tetapi bukankah Indonesia memang adalah negeri yang penuh anomali??Bumi manusia mengajak kita untuk berpikir dan merenung.
If this is a great work of literature, Its greatness eluded me. But I enjoyed the book, learning a bit of Indonesian history and imagining what life would've been like for Natives under Dutch colonial rule.
Pretty awful as a work of literary fiction (or else a truly terrible translation of a masterpiece?), but interesting as an anthropological document of colonial-era Java.
In all honesty, I didn’t like the novel as much as I liked the other two required reading novels for Oriental Literature class, “The Temple of the Golden Pavilion” and “The Rope of Ash”, nor do I think it is as impressive as the other Asian Literary works that we have read in class, like the short stories of Lu Xun. The first few parts actually didn’t get my attention. There are points in the story that I asked myself where the book was getting at or what it is trying to say. I know it is a pos
But I liked reading about everyone else, especially the European friends of Minke, who supplied the information about colonial Indonesia.
The Mellema’s family doctor, Dr. Martinet, who explained the condition of Annelies and what the author was trying to communicate when he wrote about Annelies, and the La Croix sisters who were trying to help Minke become a successful Javanese who could lead Indonesia to rebel against Dutch rule.
What I like most about reading the novel is that I get to learn about Indonesia: the History and their Culture.
I think, this is a call for Indonesia, and maybe to all parts of Asia, to fight against Western rule.
This Earth of Mankind is the first novel of the Buru Quartet, so called because it was composed when Pramoedya Ananta Toer was a political prisoner on Buru Island in the 60s.
I’m certainly tempted to pick up the second in the quartet.This Earth of Mankind is my book from Indonesia for the Read The World challenge.* it feels very weird to keep capitalising ‘Native’ like that, but I’m following the practice of the novel, or the translation, which capitalises the racial terms to emphasise their formal legal status.
This book (English title: The Earth of Mankind) was recommended by an academic friend who learned Indonesian to read it in the author's native language - impressive! The subject is serious: a love affair between a pure-blood Javanese and a mixed-race Indo set against the backdrop of the emergence of Indonesian anti-colonial sentiment near the start of the 20th century. Unfortunately, I found the almost soap-opera-ish style hard to get accustomed to.
Three stars because it introduced me to a slice of Javanese-Indonesian history and Dutch colonialism there, but was a difficult read at times. Though Toer takes a pretty clear side against the Dutch and its imperialism, he gives a more complex telling and analysis of Javanese life. However, the language felt a bit old (which it is), and so got got a little repetitive and dry. Still, it's worth reading and admiring the clarity that Toer had at the time in looking at his country.

I got this book to read while I was on Java. I didn't dislike it, but it definitely dragged. I was also hoping for something that would give me more of a feel for the island than this did, more akin to "The Gift of Rain" or "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil" in terms of being really steeped in the setting.
Dulu seorang teman pernah berkata : " Jika Amerika memiliki F.C Fitzgerald, Perancis memiliki Victor Hugo, Rusia memiliki Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Jerman memiliki Johann Wolfgang von Goethe dan Jepang memiliki Haruki MurakamiMaka, Indonesia memiliki seorang Pramoedya Ananta Toer "Penasaran, karena saya sudah baca beberapa karya sastra dunia, tapi baru sedikit karya sastra Indonesia yang saya baca.
Bumi Manusia adalah buku pertama dari Tetralogi Pulau buru yang menceritakan tentang pertentangan batin yang dialami seorang intelektual Indonesia pada masa pra-kemerdekaan bernama Minke (terinspirasi dari RM Tirto Adisuryo).
Bersama Minke kita sebagai pembaca diajak untuk mengalami langsung serta terlibat dalam masa perjuangan pra-kemerdekaan Indonesia, juga tentang pandangannya terhadap pendidikan serta bagaimana pendidikah dapat merubah derajat manusia dan juga nasib bangsanya.Naskah cerita ini dibuat pada masa Pram diasingkan di penjara Pulau Buru.
"Mas, kan kita pernah berbahagia bersama ?""Tentu, Ann.""Kenangkan kebahagiaan itu saja, ya Mas, jangan yang lain."
Oke saya tau dia masih muda,nah justru karena itulah,setiap melihat ulahnya saya nggak bisa berhenti berpikir, "drama banget sih, dasar ABG!" walaupun dia memang menunjukkan sisi lain dirinya di bagian akhir buku sih,tapi sepanjang buku dia lebih sering membuat saya geleng-geleng kepala.Namun saya jadi penasaran, kalau buku ini benar difilmkan siapakah bintang yang secantik itu sampai kita bisa melihat kejora di matanya, ya?
Semoga pilihan Mira dan Riri tidak membuat kecewa.Bagaimana dengan Minke sendiri?Hm...nggak banyak yang bisa saya katakan tentang dia,kecuali 'tukang nyosor' hahaha...well,sebutan apalagi yang harus saya berikan pada pemuda yang langsung mencium seorang gadis pada perjumpaan pertama?
I kept thinking to myself: "Why is it that I know next to nothing about Southeast Asia's struggle with the Dutch colonialism?" Reading these books was like looking out at your back yard and realizing that, in it, there is a trail that leads to whole another dimension.
The first three books are written from the point of view of Minke -- a gifted "native" who internalizes the Dutch and Western norms of his white education and who comes to see the impossibility of realizing the values of equality and justice within the colonial setting.
House of Glass shifts the point of view to another native but one who is a collaborationist.
Sebuah novel sejarah yang mengisahkan perjalanan intelektual seorang anak manusia (yang diberi nama oleh Pram Minke=monyet) untuk menemukan arti kemanusiaan dan identitas kebangsaan awal abad 20-an.
Munculnya sosok Nyai Ontosoroh, meskipun hanya seorang gundik Belanda Totok tapi dengan kebanggaan yang besar sebagai inlander (priboemi)mampu menjadi "guru spiritual" yang menanamkan kesadaran identitas diri pada Minke, yang akhirnya membawanya pada kesadaran untuk menyadarkan bangsa ini, sebagai pewaris sah Nusantara, untuk bangkit dan berjuang melawan kolonialisme.Sebuah roman yang sangat menarik, yang akan membangkitkan jiwa nasionalisme, jiwa kebanggaan sebagai bangsa besar.
Kutipan Tetralogi Pulau Buru==''Bumi Manusia''==* "Berbahagialah dia yang makan dari keringatnya sendiri bersuka karena usahanya sendiri dan maju karena pengalamannya sendiri " (''Mama/Nyai Ontosoroh, hal 39''* "Seorang terpelajar harus juga belajar berlaku adil sudah sejak dalam pikiran, apalagi perbuatan.
(''Jean Marais, hal 52'')* "Cinta itu indah, Minke, terlalu indah, yang bisa didapatkan dalam hidup manusia yang pendek ini.
(''Jean Marais, 55'')* "Tak ada cinta muncul mendadak, karena dia anak kebudayaan, bukan batu dari langit.
Itu bukan cerita tentang manusia dan kehidupannya , tapi tentang surga, dan jelas tidak terjadi di atas bumi kita ini.
Malangnya nasibmu, Inlander.
Biadab.Malangnya nasibmu, Sanikem.
Diambil madu dan kemanisanmu, diperas otak dan jiwamu, dihinakan status nyai-mu, tak bisa menyelamatkan darah dagingmu sendiri.Malangnya nasibmu Annelies.
Dibuat lemah oleh kuatnya pribadi mamamu, kesempitan duniamu, dan butanya cintamu.Malangnya nasibmu Minke.
Apa kurang bagus pemberian orangtuamu, ha?Malangnya nasibmu Vera.
baru sadar belakangan halaman 312-344 ternyata bukan bagian dari buku ini, tapi buku Anak Semua Bangsa.
Mbak Endah (empunya buku) sadar nggak ya?
Benar-benar buku bagus.
Buktinya saya hampir meraung saat Annelies tak bereaksi saat suaminya bercerita macam-macam.
Dan buku bagus ini tak layak dapat review ngasal macam ini.
Tapi kan saya baru kena spoiler.
This is a complex novel about Dutch-Indo relations through the eyes of Minke, an intelligent Javanese boy who is sent up through Dutch schooling. He falls in love with the daughter of a nyai (a concubine, or slave, as she would put it) whose father is Dutch but whose mother is native. He calls the nyai "Mama" through most of the novel. He is forced to confront his own preconceived notions on intelligence, hierarchy, and personal value, largely because of Mama:  "Stories about happy things are ne
There are co-existing governments in Indonesia during this time period - Minke's father is a bupati, a regional nobleman post that is given honor and authority until it involves a non-native person, and then all bets are off.
Since this volume ends so tragically, I would be interested in knowing what happens next.I have read a handful of books set in Indonesia (more than a handful if you include West Papua) but this is the only one translated from a native author.
The author's life is reflected in the tensions of the novel - native vs.
Selesai baca Bumi Manusia - Pramoedya Ananta Toer.Sempat saya menunda membaca Tetralogi Buru yang saya beli sebulan lalu, karena tebal dan panjangnya sehingga saya merasa nanti-nanti sajalah bacanya.
Saya mengambil Bumi Manusia dari rak, bagian pertama Tetralogi Buru, dan mulai membaca.
Tak terasa, saya sudah tiba pada halaman keseratus, dan terus melanjutkan membaca.Saya kira Bumi Manusia berat, namun ternyata tidak.
Bumi Manusia betul-betul page turner, saya sulit berhenti membuka halaman demi halamannya.
Pendalaman karakter dan motif karakter lewat back-story dan narasi isi kepala dan perasaan karakter disampaikan dengan sangat baik.Ah, sulit buat saya untuk tidak memberikan 5 dari 5 bintang untuk Bumi Manusia.
Menangis dan sedih diakhir bab terakhir ini..dan semua ditutup dengan sebuah dialog:“Kita kalah, Ma” bisik Minke“Kita telah melawan, nak, Nyo, sebaik-baiknya, sehormat-hormatnya.” Nyai OntosorohIni adalah perkenalan pertamaku pada kisah para manusia..tentang kisah cinta pria pribumi dan wanita Indo nan cantik jelita; Minke dan Annelies Mellema..tentang kewibawaan seorang wanita pribumi tangguh; Sanikem atau kita lebih mengenalnya sebagai Nyai Ontosoroh..tentang seorang pria pribumi yang gamang akan hidupnya, haruskah ia hidup seperti ayah dan semua nenek moyangnya; mengagungkan sembah pada leluhur dan pembesar melalui perendahan dan penghinaan diri!
Itu bukanlah yang Minke inginkan kelak dilakukan oleh anak-cucunya..
Rest in peace to the postcolonial novel of characters.
There were once droves of them, from all parts of the newly liberated world, but they're a rare commodity in an era where the “ethnic” novel in the U.S. has been reduced to level one alienation and occasional italicized references to spices.Toer wrote a fucking four-volume epic without a pen on a prison island in Indonesia (and you think you're a writer...).
And the first volume is a novel of beautifully drawn characters.
My only regret is-- given all the references to what dialects characters are speaking at any given moment-- that I wasn't able to read the original in what is presumably a shimmering heteroglossia.

Review lengkap: http://expellianmus.blogspot.co.id/20...
Jatuh cinta sejak adegan pertama:-- pada kecantikan seorang Annelies Mellema.
Baca: cinta Annelies (hehe!) Terasa olehku pena Pram menggoreskan nasib Minke untuk tugas-tugas besar kesejarahan yang aktual pada jamannya.-- pada cerita yang hebat ini, yang menguntai ulang detil-detil sejarah yang kupelajari di sekolah dulu, memberinya wajah, rasa, suara bahkan airmata yang begitu manusiawi.
Tergagap-gagap aku membaca sesuatu yang tampak sederhana tapi sarat makna, salah satunya adalah dialog Minke dengan Dokter Martinet tentang kondisi psikologis Annelies.
Bagaimana aku bisa segera mendapatkan lanjutan cerita ini?
Jatuh cinta dan jatuh siksa seakan dua wajah dari koin yang sama :-)
ada dinamika dari masa lalu jawa yang entah mengapa tidak terlalu menonjol, kalah oleh publikasi 'jawa keraton' yang menjual diri ke pariwisata atau gerakan heritage.ada jawa yang lain, yang lebih dinamik.dan membacai karya pram ini [yang ditulis dengan gaya bahasa yang sama dengan yang di koran-koran sejaman minke: lugas, tanpa bunga-bunga] membikin kerinduan mendalam pada dinamika yang hilang itu.keempat-empatnya dari tetralogi ini segera saya baca.'bumi manusia' saya baca ketika buku ini belum leluasa didapatkan di pasar.
dan segera membaca karya pak pram yang lain "sang pemula", ini buku yang menceritakan tokoh yang sama tapi dengan cara lain.lalu, ketika suasana politik membolehkan publikasi ketiga buku lainnya, maka segera saya beli dan melanjutkan kisah yang terhenti tadi.pak pram berkisah dengan bahasa lugas.
Minke is the only Native Javanese student in the H.B.S., one of the best high schools in the Dutch Indies.
Due to his race, all of his western education and ideas, his ability to speak and read fluent Dutch, and his dreams of being a journalist or writer cannot gain him real admission to colonial society.
But because she is a pure-blooded native and, even worse, just a nyai, she has no real power over anything in this colonial society – not even the company that she built from scratch or the land purchased in her name.When Minke and Ann fall head over heels in love, both colonial and Javanese society see their relationship as scandalous.
The setting begins around 1898 Surabaya, Java, a period of Dutch Indies colonization.
His family is among the native nobility, and Minke has the privilege to attend the elite Dutch high school.
Though Nyai and Minke have the support of many natives, the powerful directive of the Netherlands court is supported by the local Dutch Indies court.
The conflict over the inheritance and Annelies reveals the hidden social inequality of the natives Nyai and Minke when they make their rare contact with the courts and teaches them that their own ancestry might be as worthy as that of the colonizers.
An interesting book marred( I assume from all the 5 star reviews in the original language) by an abysmal -- and sorry to say, laugh-out-loud--translation.
That said, I really enjoyed the outright bizarre and melodramatic (and yes they are melodramatic) turns in the story: the keystone cops chases, the courtroom scenes, the doctor who goes on and on for pages about the psyche like some pipe smoking physician giving Rock Hudson moral advice.
I also liked the main character's growing self-awareness of his sexism, even if Ann (again, the translation might be at fault here) comes off as too much of a delicate flower.
But "Who is this Fatso?"
This Earth of Mankind is the first novel of the Buru Quartet, the book was orally narrated by the author when he was a political prisoner in Buru islands to his fellow prisoners, and it was published later.
It was good to know about the colonial laws for Natives, Indos and Whites.
Colonial laws wouldn't be in favor of natives obviously, but in this book it shows how disastrous they were for Nyai's family.
However, they still fight knowing they cant win against the European law.
The ending was sad, maybe because author wanted a solid foundation for this series and wanted readers to pickup the next book quickly!
Second, it’s the story, set at the end of the 19th century, of an 18-year-old Indonesian boy, nicknamed Minke by one of the teachers in the elite Dutch school he’s privileged to attend (the teacher apparently meant to call him a monkey, and now that’s replaced his actual identity, ooooh don’t you see the damage colonialism does here?).
The translation could have been more accessibly-written, though, and there’s a lot of repetition, as if the author was perhaps too wedded to the novel’s spoken form.At any rate, I can see this novel being great for courses on comparative or post-colonial literature, and am sure its virtues are much more evident in Indonesian and to people who share that cultural background.
If i were Nyai Ontosoroh...If i were Minke...If i were Annelies Mellema..."if i were" adalah kalimat yang terlintas di pikiran saya ketika saya membaca peran dari masing - masing karakter tersebut.
Seandainya saya adalah Nyai Ontosoroh, saya bukan hanya akan mengurus tanah dan perusahaan milik Herman Mellema saja, melainkan meminta bagian sebagai ganti tenaga dan pikiran saya dalam tahun - tahun saya mengelolanya.Minke, entah mengapa Raden yang satu ini enggan menyebut namanya, apa mungkin karena ia malu atas ke"pribumi"annya?
entahlah, namun dibalik sifatnya yang memuja - muja barat yang pada saat itu menguasai tanah Jawa, ia adalah seorang yang pintar dan manusia yang memiliki estetika tinggi.
