https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88314.Mortal_Engines
Another fascinating book by Lem. I generally have little interest in short stories. I prefer longer narratives that I can really invest in. And when I realized these were short science fiction stories, I was skeptical that he would pull it off. Science fiction requires world building (as does fantasy) and integrating character into an unfamiliar universe takes time, which short stories don't afford. Lem solved that issue by writing short stories that are far more like fables or parables. Most pr
​Another fascinating book by Lem. I generally have little interest in short stories.
And when I realized these were short science fiction stories, I was skeptical that he would pull it off.
Science fiction requires world building (as does fantasy) and integrating character into an unfamiliar universe takes time, which short stories don't afford.
Lem solved that issue by writing short stories that are far more like fables or parables.
There were two slightly longer stories toward the end that were not quite novellas, and these were more traditional in style.
Still very respectable stories that defy expectations.What impressed me the most is his incredible creativity.
Wtedy myślałem, że nie zmogę polubić ten język.
Minęło kilka miesięcy i ja zrozumiałem, że nie jest ten język tak zły, jak ja myślałem.
Ale kilka tygodni temu mój ojciec poradził mi przeczytać powieści Stanisława Lema.
Ojciec dla mnie to najlepszy kolega, z którym ja zawsze mogę porozmawiać, i który nigdy nie poradzi czegoś złego.
Połączenie dwóch różnych gatunków literackich, science-fiction i baśnia, w wykonaniu Lema, daje nowy, dla mnie egzotyczny do tej pory styl.
Imaginacja Lema poprostu zaskoczyła mnie.
Chociaż to nie jest dziwne, bo jestem chyba jeszcze nie zbyt doświadcznym czytelnikiem, więc na mnie czeka jeszcze wiele zaskoczeń.
This, again, may result in rich yet heterogenous, simple yet detailed tales that are easy enough to remember and tightly sewn to the culture in which they have born, tales with memorably-named characters, morale and teachings.
Hero-tales both work as examples for their hearers, but also point out what doesn't give good results, what is not to be done (because it's been done before and didn't end well even then).These points considered, I think Mr. Lem managed to stay loyal to the style he chose through the whole book, and this is a great accomplishment in itself.
Stanislaw Lemin "Konekansan satuja ja tarinoita" sisältää tulevaisuuden faabeleita, opettavaisia "robottitarinoita". Suurin osa tarinoista perustuu teknisillä nimikkeillä kikkailuun ollen valitettavan köyhiä sisällöltään tai juoneltaan. Onneksi joukkoon on kuitenkin osunut muutama oivallinenkin tarina. "Automatiaksen ystävä" on ehdottomasti kirjan paras hetki. Tämän vajaan 30 sivun takia kirja kannattaa hankkia käsiinsä. Muut voikin sitten jättää lukematta.
I had fond memories of the The Cyberiad, but I still did not expect to love this as much as I did.
The fairy tales for robots that make up the bulk of the collection are charming and hilarious (and occasionally heartbreaking), but it's the final novella"The Mask," with its fascinating exploration of gender and self-determination told in lush prose, that really makes the collection for me.
(The other novella, "The Hunt," was the one low point for me--it's not bad, but the writing is clunkier than anything else in the collection.
No one hits a home run every time.)
Tempo fa mi sono imbattuta in una recensione di questo libro che mi ha conquistato..
Ho rimandato per poi dimenticarmene fino a che una sera una vocina dentro di me mi continuava a ripetere questo titolo..
(Sì, sì, poi verrà il tempo in cui ci preoccuperemo del fatto che io senta le vocine dentro di me, ma non è questo il giorno :D)Queste fiabe sono semplicemente adorabili: è il termine che prepotente mi viene in mente tutte le volte che parlo di questo libro..
Il libro è un concentrato di genialità, di 'magia' e di tenerezza, davvero!Come se non bastasse, ogni storia è ambientata in un mondo diverso e beh..
On some level, something must have gotten lost in translation from Polish to German, Lem being a hailed SciFi author and all.
The significantly higher ratings in Eastern European seem to indicate that possibility.
While the first story was still kind of whimsical, the ones after grew increasingly bland and formulaic.
They read like run-of-the-mill fairy tales for toddlers with the added twist that most of the nouns are either replaced or prefixed with a term from chemistry, metallurgy or pre-IC computers and robotics.I freely admit that expectations definitely contribute to my disappointment, but when I read "robot", Asimov's depictions come to mind, which have no relation to the beings depicted in this book.
"Av" baya iyidi.
An eclectic collection of stories mixing in elements of fantasy, hard sci-fi and tonnes of invented names, which would even give Alastair Reynolds a headache! A definite read for anyone who would like to stretch their imaginations. My Rating - 4/5
More genius from Stanislaw Lem. I'm not a huge fan of short stories, but these take the reader to places that I think no one has ever been. Half fairy-tale, half science-fiction, these stories these stories entertain while shoring up our science vocabularies.
Nie zliczę ile już razy chwaliłem geniusz Lema, ale i w tym wypadku pióro autora zasługuje na śpiewanie peanów. Lem podjął się nie lada wyzwania tworząc książkę, której treść pod każdym względem pasuje do tytułu. "Bajki robotów" to zbiór opowieści o myślących maszynach stylizowanych na baśnie, legendy i podania. Pełna niesamowitego humoru, miejscami moralizatorska (tak jak każda prawdziwa bajka) wciąga i pozwala oderwać się od książki dopiero po przeczytaniu ostatniej strony.
The most funny and charming book I've read recently.
Asimov' da da görmək mümkündür), biraz nağılvari, xüsusilə son iki hekayəsi ilə insanı düşündürən hekayələr toplusundan ibarətdir.
Lemin robotları heç də bəşəriyyətə duyduğu qəzəb hissi ilə alışıb yanmır və məqsədi hər zaman "insan növünü məhv edib hakimiyyəti ələ keçirməliyəm" olmur.
Lem orta əsr cizgiləri ilə, elmi- fantastik ünsürlərlə zəngin, toplumda hər kəsin robot olduğu, amma bunu bir neçə yerdə yazılı görməsək baş verənlərin insan toplumundakılardan fərqlənmədiyi hekayələr yazıb.
Xüsusilə sonuncu hekayələr olan "Ov" və "Maska" oxunmağa dəyərdir.İngilis dilinə tərcümə edən M.
Tichy də bir hekayədə görünür.
I. Tichy sevərlər üçün xoş bir təsadüf :)
Piękne bajki łączące poetykę science fiction ze światem bajek. Książkę przeczytałem w ramach mojego prywatnego roku z prozą Stanisława Lema. Co ciekawe wiele bajek jest napisanych piękną polszczyzną bazującą często na neologizmach. Z tego powodu jest są one prawie nieprzetłumaczalne ( np. elektrosmog zamieniający się w elektrosmoka). Na dłuższą metę przedstawione opowieści są do siebie bardzo podobne. Nie nadają się do jednokrotnego przeczytania, jednak są doskonałe jako bajeczki na dobranoc - niekoniecznie dla dzieci.
Not my favorite Lem, but there’s definitely some good material in here, especially in the first 11 robot fairy tales.
Ten zbiór opowiadań, który po raz pierwszy ukazał się w 1964 roku oczarował mnie i spowodował moją fascynację i późniejsze zachłyśnięcie się książkami najwybitniejszego polskiego pisarza fantastycznego.Spis bajek.Nie widzę sensu z przytaczania, czy też streszczania każdej bajki z osobna, więc podrzucam tylko spis całej piętnastki, a poniżej pozwolę sobie tylko na króciutkie podsumowanie.Trzej elektrycerze;Uranowe uszy;Jak Erg Samowzbudnik Bladawca pokonał;Skarby króla Biskalara;Dwa potwory;Biała śmierć;Jak Mikromił i Gigacyan ucieczkę mgławic wszczęli;Bajka o maszynie cyfrowej, co ze smokiem walczyła;Doradcy króla Hydropsa;Przyjaciel Automateusza;Król Globares i mędrcy;Bajka o królu Murdasie;Jak ocalał świat;Maszyna Trurla;Wielkie lanie;Roboty, królewny i…Osoby, które podkreślają, iż Bajki robotów nie są książką dla dzieci – mają trochę racji.
The translator/editor says in the introduction that he wanted to collect Lem's stories about robots, but for the most part the only distinguishing robotic characteristic of these characters is that they're made of metal; were it not for references to rust here and there, they might as well be human, or some other sort of life.
But even in these stories, the fable-like structure means that there's very little opening for the reader to care.
But hey, I'm the one writing this review.One star gained for the last two stories, which break out of the fable mode and really delve into what it is to be a robot.
Based on content alone, the stories probably deserve a 4* rating - I'm proud to have this on my bookshelf and will keep a close eye out for more of Lem's work in future.It isn't, however, the easiest read.
Probably partially due to the writing style of Lem himself, the translation often has sprawling sentences filled with a multitude of long and unfamiliar vocabulary.
Trying to make this my "primary" book to read just put me off of reading for a long period of time, despite the quality of the stories in themselves.
Fourteen stories about robots, translated from Polish. The first eleven are from a collection called Fables for robots; like the stories of The Cyberiad they are short satirical parables or fairy tales set in a world inhabited by robots and are just fun to read. The twelfth story features Ijon Tichy, and the thirteenth is a story of Pilot Pirx, two characters who appear frequently in Lem's writings. The last and best story is a stand-alone, "The Hunt", which is more serious and recalls themes from Solaris.
Brilliant collection of short stories, all of which share the theme of robots. Some are deep and dystopian, and echo the mood and feel of "Solaris". Others are just plain silly. This exposed me to a mirthful side of Lem I didn't know existed.
Borrowed from Bill. It's Borges meets Katamari Damacy. ;D It's a lot of fun to read; many stories are told like myths or fables, except they involve strange robot alien space race kind of fellas.
Հեքիաթներ մարդկանց հանդեպ տհաճության մոտիվներով, մի քիչ արխայիկ խոսքով, տրագիկոմեդիկ վերջաբանով և հարուստ երևակայությամբ:
Me he esforzado, pero al final lo he tenido que dejar. Muy apartado de obras más "serias" de Lem, estas fábulas simplemente no han conseguido despertar mi interés. Ya lo siento.
Uneven, as it is an arbitrary collection of short stories and novellas. But a couple of the works are nothing short of revelatory.
The system was the important thing, not the raw material; that could be biological or nonbiological." (p viii) This gives me an excuse to quote at length from my review of Rudy Rucker's The Hacker and the Ants ( https://www.goodreads.com/story/show/...
By "fable" I mostly mean stories told in a somewhat simple formulaic way that involve kings & kingdoms, wch might be more appropriately called "fairy tales" even tho no "fairies" are involved, but they're also fables in the sense of "a short tale to teach a moral lesson, often with animals or inanimate objects as characters" ( http://dictionary.reference.com/brows...
Non credo sia facile trovare un altro scrittore di fantascienza che sappia affrontare temi simili in modo così divertente e paradossale.Nel leggere questa geniale raccolta, mi sono tornate alla memoria le bellissime pagine delLe Cosmicomiche: anche se in Lem manca l’intento didattico e l’ironia calviniana non è graffiante come quella del polacco, credo che le due raccolte abbiano moltissimo in comune, sia nella scelta dei temi, sia nel tono della narrazione, sia nell’inesauribile fantasia delle situazioni.
I picked Fables for Robots, more or less at random.Fables for Robots is a book that combines aspects of traditional fables with science fiction.
Robot kings, robot knights, robot inventors (that invent other robots or machines!), robot advisors etc.
In the fable about the three robot-knights the knights are vanquished due to their greed, in the fable of Mikromil and Gigatian the catastrophe was caused by megalomania, king Erg was beaten doe to his greed so on and so forth.I haven't read a book of Lem that I didn't like and this is no exception.
Very cute and easy read!
Fables for Robots features 13 short stories which supposedly are fairy tales about robots and for robots.
In a few other stories, humans are mentioned, usually in a derisive or hostile fashion ("Bleichlinge").What Lem has done here, reminds me of Calvino.
Two stories, I liked a bit better.The White Death: For fear of attacks the robots live beneath the surface.
Purportedly this story is inspired by Poe’s Mask of the Red Death.How Mikromil and Gigatian Provoked the Runaway of Nebulae: Lem’s robot myth on the creation of a galaxy.
As believable as the Genesis.I’ll give Lem another chance someday but I’m afraid his books are not for me.

In my youth Lem was one of the few science fiction writers translated to Finnish (along with Clarke, Asimov, Bradbury, etc.
- basically single books from selected big names).
Then I read Solaris, The Futurological Congress, Return from the Stars or whatever it's English title is, Invincible, Cyberiad.
Also I remember finding an English translation of Pirx stories and enjoying it immensely.
With that history I should have liked this collection more than I did.
I returned to the book only now to finish it.
The latter stories are more to my liking: Ijon Tichy and Pirx make appearances and the last story is stylistically rather ambitious.
