https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30152.In_God_We_Trust
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/To borrower some of Jean Shepherd’s own words, I chose to read In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash in order to prepare for the . . . .  “Yearly bacchanalia of peace of earth and good will to men.” Save your breath if you want to tell me “it’s too early” or “it’s not even Thanksgiving yet” because this is pretty much me . . . .  By the time Christmas actually rolls around I’m usually ready to curl up in a ball of blah so I’m all about
Alas, the porny librarian proved that he/she does live on porn alone as the audio was not an option.
(Have no fear, porny librarian, you’re still my boo.) Anywho, I settled for the eCopy and had a pretty enjoyable time experiencing new vignettes about crappie fishing and blind dates and faulty roman candles.
It was still like old home week when Ralphie spun yarns of finally acquiring his 200-shot, range model air rifle, with a compass in the stock and this thing that tells time .
Or when Ralphie beat the crap out of that awful Grover Dill or when the Old Man finally received his major award .
The book fleshes out the characters, and it’s fun to learn the reasoning behind some of the throwaway movie scenes like why Ralphie gave the old man a can of Simoniz for Christmas.The nostalgic vignettes of In God We Trust are grittier than the lighthearted movie.
My great tie that Aunt Glenn gave me is two feet wide, hanging down to the floor like some crinkly tinfoil noose.
Yes, this is the book that "A Christmas Story" was based on.
But don't read it expecting it to have the same innocently charming humor as the movie.
Don't get me wrong, this book is quite humorous, but it is told in a much more wry and sarcastic manor than the movie.
In fact, the stories that made it into the Christmas Story narrative aren't even the funniest ones.
I actually laughed out loud at that fun.
All in all, a fun read as long as you're not expecting to get "A Christmas Story" in print form.
I thought it would be a book of humorous essays.
"A Christmas Story" the movie that runs 24/7 during December is based on only two chapters in this book.
Mr. Shepherd's look back on his youth growing up in Indiana during the Depression is never dull.
His story about the local theater owner who enticed people to the movies by giving every woman who attended a piece of dishware from a 100 piece set sparked my imagination.
I've heard of people who collect Depression era dinnerware that movie theaters gave away, but I was never familiar with the details.
He was rushing off to work when we got up the morning, would come home for dinner, then settle into his chair with a pipe, a book or the papers, feet up, to listen to classical music until he went to bed.
But he started respecting me for that at least, even though I often was trying for something more personal.So, I know my dad very much through the books he's read and reads, the music he listens to, the political commentators he approves of and stuff he thinks entertaining.
His childhood, like my dad's, was during the depression at the southern reaches of Lake Michigan.
First published in 1966 the stories of a depression era North Western Indiana Town of boys, their families, girls, bully’s, teachers, neighbors, and of course Red Rider and his trusty air rifle.
I am here to tell you that there are stories and images the film shared, but it is just a taste of the nostalgia and humor this book delivers.
My old man was more into whatever he could afford.
Jean Shepard is a hell of a story teller.
Many of the stories woven together here were actually first published in Playboy in the early to mid-1960’s.
Heartwarming and funny, "In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash" is a novel of interrelated vignettes containing the short stories that eventually became the classic holiday movie, "A Christmas Story." In the book, Jean Shepherd tells the sometimes heartbreaking and dark, but tongue-in-cheek, laugh-out-loud stories of growing up in a Northern Indiana mill town during the Great Depression.
I was fascinated not just with his humor, but hearing about the way he described school, neighborhoods and town life -- much like the way my mom remembers this type of community; she also grew up in northern Indiana and remembers the lifestyle and culture of the place, even though she's a generation younger.As this December marks Indiana's 200th birthday, I'm trying to read books by and about Indiana authors, so Shepherd is a natural pick -- highly recommended.
After watching "A Christmas Story" for the millionth time during the holidays I was craving more of Jean Shepherd's humor.
I was familiar with his radio show but was pleased that there was a book version of many of his stories.
This is a funny and entertaining read and you can see his influence on modern humorists' storytelling.
It reminded me a lot of Bill Bryson's recollections of growing up in suburbia (a few decades later).
The stories area loosely connected by meeting up with an old pal at a bar and they reminisce about growing up.
The book that inspired A Christmas Story. I read the whole book in the movie narrator's voice.
Checked out from library and tried a bit. Very clearly not for me! More "humor" I didn't get.
They start reminiscing and Shepherd tells stories.
When his Mom finds out, she confronts him and he admits telling the joke but she knows that he didn't 'get it' when he says that one of the words he used was related to hockey (this continued to make me laugh even as I typed this).
It takes a hundred years to grow out of that one, if ever!"Ralph's Mom proceeds to explain to Mrs. Wocznowski that they boys didn't understand the joke.
The book has a bundle of short stories, including Ralphie Parker's pursuit of the Red Ryder 200 shot carbine-action air rifle.Adult Ralphie goes back to his hometown, as he recounts his memories.
- My Review -I love the movie, "A Christmas Story" which was based on this book.
The first part of the book, I could actually "hear" Ralphie's adult voice (from the movie) reading the words along with me.
The second part of the book reminded me a lot of the sequel to "A Christmas Story" titled "It Runs In the Family".
The book had short stories that were shown in the sequel.
There were many times where I told myself to just allow this to go the way of the DNF pile but I really try and stick them out if they are for book club and less than 300 pages.
There are some books that just don't stand the test of time and this is one of them.
I found this so dated that most of the references went way over my head, with the resulting effect being reader apathy.
Throw in multiple references of casual homophobia, sexism and xenophobia and it became less appealing as the pages turned.
I picked this up as a holiday read (it's largely known as "the book that the move A Christmas Story is based on").
I have memories of loving these stories when my middle school teacher would read them, but in retrospect I think I just remember him loving the stories.
Next time I'll just watch the movie.This is really a collection of short stories held together by a sort of lame and annoying narrative contrivance.
On top of that, each of the stories themselves begins with a "Remembrance of Things Past" sort of introduction to the story itself.
It's hard not to hear Jean Shepherd's voice as you read this book, especially if you know him best as the narrator of the movie A Christmas Story.
Shepherd is one of the modern masters of hyperbole, building his tales on great towering word structures until it's hard to know what's real and what's imaginary.
Fitzgerald's Adenville, there's probably a lot of truth mixed up with fiction.) As with other episodic novels, my overall rating is influenced by my liking some of the stories better than others, as well as my general (and unjustified) disappointment that they weren't all about the young Ralphie of the movie.
Make no mistake, Jean Shepherd is a fantastic humorist and essayist. This collection is entertaining and definitely well-written. It's unfortunate, however, that Shepherd's masterwork, "A Christmas Story," has rendered almost everything else he ever did a footnote. Doesn't matter how funny or how clever his other stories are- you'll always be comparing them to the brilliant writer and raconteur's turn as narrator and author of the most beloved holiday slice-of-life comedy ever made.
Jean Shepherd's semi-autobiographical collection of short stories is full of wit.
He weaves a tapestry (to quote himself right from the book) of words to form vivid imagery, thought, and analogy.What humorist Shepherd does brilliantly is being a fantastic storyteller.
With his great word selection and great storytelling, you'll find the wit I mentioned at the beginning.A few of the stories will be familiar to readers if they've seen the two Bob Clark-directed films "A Christmas Story" and "It Runs in the Family".
A female kid is a girl.[Uncle Ben]'d just sit there and glow, and like most Joke Tellers was indecisively fat.
Ralph (a semi-autobiographical Shepherd and big New York writer-hepcat) goes back to Hohman, Indiana to write about his childhood.
He meets up with a childhood friend - now a bartender - and they swap stories.
The frame story feels a bit dated, with references to Pop Art and the like, but the meat of the book is the recollections.
And I have a new respect for Ralph's mom, knowing that she had a copy of Boccachio's Decameron in her nightstand.
I've wanted to read this for a few years now.
The thing is the price of the book I thought was too high, so I waited.
I got into after a few minutes.The one essay is closely the story we know from the movie outlining Ralphie's desire for the Red Ryder bb gun.
I would say it isn't as tight of a story as the movie version and certainly not as fleshed out.
The book is a compilation of stories.
The cursing episode was much different than what was in the movie.At some point I read the something online about this.
In case you're not at all familiar with it, this is the book that the movie The Christmas Story is based on.
If you don't like that movie, forget this book exists.The cover blurb says that Shepherd bridges the gap between James Thurber and David Sedaris.
Funny in the movie, not so much in the book—especially by the seventh time he uses it.
I'm not a big fan of the frame as a storytelling device anyway, but (a) Shepherd's particular frame is a really lame one, and (2) he's not satisfied with just one frame, so most of the book exists within a double frame.
Originally published as a series of essays in "Playboy" between 1964 and 1966, Shepherd has pooled them together into a single volume, connecting the essays and short stories with little vignettes that have Ralphie returning home from New York on business and running into his friend Flick, who is now a bartender in a local pub.Fans of the movie will find some very familiar tales, such as the visit to Santa at the local department store, the magnificent lamp prize won by the Old Man, and even all the Christmas morning festivities (though they take place on Christmas Eve in the essay).
(My husband told me there was a follow-up to the Christmas Story movie that had the same characters, played by different actors, that wasn't very good, and that some of the other stories from this book appeared in that movie....but I haven't seen that particular movie.)In any case, if you enjoyed The Christmas Story, you might also enjoy reading this book.Also, a relatively recent transplant to Indiana, I was particularly amused by a chapter about the annual visit by the tax assessor, fear of whom was said to be in every Hoosier's blood.
Before Lewis Black, before Bill Bryson, before even Garrison Keillor, there was Jean Shepherd.
Like A Christmas Story, In God We Trust: All Others Pay Cash is an adaptation of some of his greatest hits, some of which were previously published as short stories in Playboy (which should tip the reader off that some of them are slightly more PG-13 than the 1983 movie version) and all of which were first told live, on the air.
These are hilarious, heartwarming and incredibly perceptive and accurate.
The movie glommed most of the stories into a single event.
Basically this is a homecoming story about a New Yorker returning to his gritty, steel mill hometown in Indiana where he meets up with his childhood friend, Flick, now a bar tender.
The two reminisce about growing up.Good stories.
I liked the last one about the Gravy Boat.
All were funny and thought provoking about my own childhood in the 60's and 70's in my own hometown in steel country of Western PA.
If you like the movie, or stories about kids growing up during the Depression,this is a read for you.Good Read!
Jean Shepherd is a guy, and the book is the basis for the well-known movie, "A Christmas Story." So far I really like it, except that in at least two places he uses poor grammar, "to he who waits," etc. Where was the editor??* * * * *Entertaining, with some situations that weren't in the movie and an entirely different setup. I did, however, miss not having the story of the kid getting his tongue stuck to the flagpole. The author is heavy on hyperbole to the nth degree!
This was a fun, light, read. There were only a few stories that had actually been featured in the movie, A Christmas Story, however. Yes, there is the famous "you'll shoot your eye out" scene. Shepherd's writing definitely takes the reader back in time to a small Indiana town in the 1930s and 40s. Each childhood tale is filled with humorous nostalgia. I still like the movie better, though, as it has long become a yearly tradition in my family.
One of my favorites! Many of the stories from the book were incorporated in the movie Christmas Story. Written with the same humor and nostalgia, while filling in some of the details. Highly recommended,
Enjoyed this but didn't find it as humorous as I thought I would, having seen the movie. Did enjoy the nostalgia - kids running free, fireworks! - some of which brought up good memories of my childhood.
So he wrote this "novel" -- a collection of his short stories as if remembered by a "Ralph" who was returning to his fictional home town of "Hohman, Indiana", after a career as a successful magazine writer living in New York City.
Well, there's a reason for why he's not better known, and it's because he's not funny-ha-ha.But if you want to read stories that contain elements of humor, as well as caustic commentaries on the destruction wreaked by industrialization, and which try to relate a boy's understanding of what life was like living on the edge in an industrial town in the American Midwest during the Great Depression, I think Shepherd's work is pretty good.I can't say it's great.
TRIED not to let my undying love for the movie A Christmas Story cloud my judgement of this book; alas, that may not have been the case. In this refreshingly light-hearted glimpse of the depression-era midwest, wit never wavers. Whenever writing makes me pause and sincerely wish that I had “the gift” myself, I have no choice but to give 5 stars.
