https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414066.The_Scarlet_Slipper_Mystery
Too many characters ..... :/But still I liked it....
This was a very exciting read and I liked it. But I got confused who was who all the time. There were too many characters, but in the end it was still a great book! I would recommend to any mystery and adventure lovers!
I did actually enjoy this book it was full of many surprises.It was about a picture of a famous dancer wearing a pair of scarlet ballet slippers.
The picture was stolen from Paris and Nancy and her friends soon find out why.
Nancy kept running into these people and started to suspect something.
Her friend Mr. Fontain she met painted the painting and was a dark person, just like the people she suspected of stealing the artwork.
Also they were the only dark people in town.
These people will do anything to keep Nancy from knowing the truth about them.
Another great entry in this series.
One of my least favorites so far---boring and confusing.
Nancy Drew must solve a case of extortion in this addition to the book series.
Sadly this doesn't stand the test of time.
Bahaha!
When we first meet Bess'n'George, they're attired "in gay cotton skirts and blouses." At one point Nancy gets offended when Ned intimates to a stranger that they're husband and wife.The teaser picture shows HANNAH GRUEN bound and gagged, which is the first time in the series that anything has happened to her.
We discover that Nancy is a skilled ballerina, though she hasn't practiced in years.No one loses consciousness, but the epic stupidity occurs when the girls enter a house that simply reeks of kerosene, shut themselves in an upstairs bedroom to look over evidence and then are totally surprised eight pages later when the bad guys torch the place.
Predictable story but I totally enjoyed revisiting my childhood hero and her pals.
The Mystery of the Missing Scarlet SlippersBy: Carolyn KeeneCritique by Margot BuckeyThe Mystery of the Missing Scarlet Slippers is about twins named Henri and Helene Fontaine from Centrovia.
Nancy and her friends discover there are Centrovian men trying to steal special things from the Fontaines.
When they come to America, they open a dance school for children.The main conflict in this book is that there are strangers trying to steal objects from the Fontaines.
Nancy finally discovers that men are trying to steal paintings from the Fontaines that have gems hidden in the paint.
"The Scarlet Slipper Mystery " is about a girl detective , Nancy Drew who meets Helene and Henri Fontaine , refugees from Centrovia who run a dancing school in River Heights .
When they receive an annoymous note threatening their lives , Nancy offers her help .
Have they been threatened by their own countrymen ?
Is a series of paintings by Henri Fountaines being used for a sinster purpose ?
Suddenly the Fountaines disappear.
Nancy and her friends persue the trial relentlessly , even through danger lurks around every corner .
But Nancy's quick wit finally enables her to solve this intriguing and intricate mystery .
I read it to my little sister (age 10) before bed each night. She enjoyed it, and the writing is of a fairly good quality for a children's book. Expectedly, the plot was fairly simple, without many unpredictable events.Altogether, a good children's mystery novel.
Nancy Drew helps some dancers find our who is threatening them. A charming mystery.
This book was good, however there was a lot of events happening and it got a little confusing at times. But this book is about two siblings who are refugees, who got a note which threatened their lives. Obviously, Nancy Drew wants to help, but the siblings vanished. Nancy starts to look for them but finds goods which are somewhat valuable. I would recommend this book to anyone who loves mystery and excitement, but I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who might need to re-read over parts in order to understand what's happening, and doesn't like doing so.
I’ve got to say, it’s not often that I actually can’t guess the ending of a Nancy Drew mystery, but this one had me second guessing myself the entire time. I wasn’t sure where everyone’s allegiances lay and I was convinced several times that people were double agents only to suddenly trust them again. A thoroughly enjoyable mystery, even if it was a bit convoluted and required quite a bit of exposition at the end.
This was always one of my favorite Nancy Drews - mysterious paintings, hidden gems, and cracked bisque figurines with enigmatic numbers hidden inside. Nancy cracks the case as always and remains the voice of reason no matter the peril (while poor Bess is always the chubby nincompoop. Oh, dear.) Such a great escape into the time capsule of memory lane. 5 Stars
I rated this book for what it is, a children’s mystery written in the 50’s. It’s not a great work of literature but I thought it was a fun and interesting read. Albeit cheesy in places, and clearly written in a different era, I still found it fun and intriguing. A quick read that any young reader interested in mystery could get into.
Nancy Drew is back with another mystery! This story, just like all the others in the series, inspires me to be more inquisitive and sympathetic with others. This is a great book for younger readers, but I still appreciate it even in my early twenties.
Not really sure about the foreign country whatnot, but this is one heck of a story!
My first Nancy Drew (because I was super into ballet at the time), and probably one of my favorites.
Nancy does a great job of not only saving a brother and sister from their enemies but also a their homeland centronavia.
2.5. Nancy finally suspects the people who enlisted her help; characters are slightly less black and white.
This book was a good mysterious read! It kept me on my toes and wanting to read more to find out what will happen next.
I wouldn't read this one again. Ballerina paintings, dance classes, and framed ballerina slippers. Mrs. Nickerson makes an appearance.
It was good but a little confusing. Still liked it though.
The Scarlet Slipper Mystery  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 32nd book in the  Nancy Drew  series. At a dancing school run by Helene and Henri Fontaine, refugees from Centrovia, scarlet slippers hang on the wall. Are they a clue in the mystery involving underground activities, missing jewels, and paintings? Strange circumstances brought the brother and sister to the United States. And when they receive an anonymous note threatening their lives, can eighteen-year-old N
And when they receive an anonymous note threatening their lives, can eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew solve the puzzle?
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
The Scarlet Slipper Mystery
The Scarlet Slipper Mystery
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
I found this book confusing - there were too many people with too many aliases.
I'm not sure if the confusion comes from the update or not.
This is the 32nd book in the series and was first published in 1954 and revised in 1974.A few things that I noticed - Burt and Dave haven't been seen in awhile.
Ned apparently is more involved with the relationship than Nancy is.
At one point in this book he eludes that he and Nancy are married.
Poor Ned, he's been there for Nancy through 26 mysteries, risking his car, his life, spending his time, energy and money on her and he doesn't even get a good night kiss.
#32 in the Nancy Drew seriesAnother light and enjoyable book in this young adult mystery series.
For instance, the police are always happy and friendly figures who welcome Nancy's help and actually let her lead the way--driving the cops to the scene of a crime in her car, questioning suspects, and being allowed to look for clues in a barn that the police are guarding.
In this case a young couple is threatened and accused of a crime.
Nancy invites them to live in her house (!), and she and her friends work at the couple's dance studio while they are in hiding, teaching classes and managing the school.
I read tons of Nancy Drew books as a preteen - I loved that she solved mysteries, drove a convertible, had a boyfriend, two great friends, and could basically do everything.
When Nancy comes across a brother and sister in trouble, she immediately asks them to stay at her house (she believes in their innocence completely!).
Overall, the plot was a bit convoluted as all of the suspects had multiple aliases, so I didn't really understand the whole scheme, but that's okay since this book was more about Nancy's ability to do everything!
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
