https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77678.The_Lays_of_Beleriand
I think I probably got my copy around the time it was first published when I was but a wee sprat simply because it was by Tolkien and certainly at that time the likelihood that I would read a book comprised primarily of two long narrative poems accompanied by copious editorial apparatus was, to say the least, unlikely.
Ultimately they allowed me to see, in the best cases, much fuller versions of the tales of the First Age of Middle-earth that are given only in precis in The Silmarillion as published.
After all, while I certainly enjoyed reading all three versions of each of the two long tales, the vast span of time and effort the professor spent creating and recreating them could have better, in my opinion, been spent writing more stories of Middle-Earth featuring, or amplifying, other times, places, and characters.
And this in the end is what I took away from The Lays of Beleriand: awe at the man's sheer creativity and perseverance, but disappointment that there is so much about Middle-Earth we will never enjoy because of his obsession with these two tales and their forms.
It's not LOTR, by any means, but it could have rivaled it if Tolkien had ever written an expanded prose version.
It is basically two poems about pre-LOTR Middle-Earth written in an Old-English style.
There are also some comments on an early version of Leithian by C.S. Lewis, which was neat, both to think that he and Tolkien were friends and because Lewis treated it as critic reviewing a real translation of an Old-English poem.
That all said, I do not recommend this book to someone who has not read "The Silmarillion".


Not the earliest works of Middle Earth, but where he loses the bits of twee that were in the Book of Lost Tales.Turin done in alliterative verse, in several variants. The basic bones of the story are down, but many interesting differences between here and the final version.Luthein and Beren are done in rhyming verse, and come closer to the final version. It makes The Silmarillion version look terse. Some repetitionbetween this and Beren and Lúthien.
I adored these stories in this form, for me reading them in the rhyme and meter of older works of poetry made them so much more lyrical and enjoyable than the brief summaries found in The Silmarillion.
All right, I haven't read this book all the way through.
Mainly, because a great portion of the book is the story of Turin, which is the most depressing story Tolkien ever came up with.
But this also includes a great deal of the tale of Beren and Luthien, told in a beautiful way.You see, the stories in here are written in leys, told in a poetic form that flows off the tongue and right into the heart.
I can get chills reading certain passages of The Ley of Leithian.
If you want the complete tale of Beren and Luthien, read it in the Silmarillion.
The Lays of Beleriand (The History of Middle-Earth #3), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
While I was interested to see how the different narratives developed, and while I did enjoy those narratives, some of the commentary was a little too detailed and abstract for me - I really do not care to read endless notes on minor spelling changes, for instance - and it's hard to deny that there's a lot of repetition here.As always, the sheer depth of Tolkien's imagination is a delight.
Still, on a macro level if not a micro, this is an interesting read if perhaps one more directed towards academics than people who just want to read a good story without being interrupted by sausage-making.
Great, long and unfinished poem "Lay of Leithian", written in octosyllabic couplets, so many times mentioned both in official version of "The Silmarillion", as well as in "The Book of Lost Tales part 1&2" bursts of beautiful literary expressions and reveals how the story of Beren and Luthien was step-by-step developed and how the plot and characters were shifted in the long period of time in which it was written.
Another great poem listed in this volume is "The Lay of the Children of Hurin" - an early Tolkien's work, written in his beloved alliterative stanzas.And the most biggest surprise for me is "Noldolante" i.e.
Was really cool to read, especially being able to read the commentary by C.S. Lewis on the Lay of Leithian alongside an early version of it.Luthiens story is my favourite of all Tolkien's characters in the stories other than LOTR. There were quite a few bits and pieces that were quite cool, but it was not an easy read, as it is obviously not a story, but for the hard core fans.
This is the third volume within the collection of books that make up ‘the history of Middle-Earth’ which delves into JRR Tolkien’s great creation behind The Silmarillion, the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings.
Complete with pages from the original manuscript of ‘the lay of the children of Hurin’ this is a fascinating and interesting study of such a work on an epic scale, which I urge fans of his books (such as the lord of the rings) to discover for it is so illuminating.
Christopher Tolkien has put together some poetic stories that his father worked on but never finished.
In "Lethien," a man named Beren meets and falls in love with the elf king's daughter, Luthien, or Tinuviel.
(hide spoiler)] This was an interesting story, and it is too bad that Tolkien never finished it, at least, not in this format.
Christopher points out throughout the notes that this story is also in the Silmarillion, but since I have not yet read that book, I don't know how well-developed the story is in that work.
The tales of Túrin son of Húrin and Tinúviel (more commonly known as the story of Lúthien and Beren) exist in many forms and in many diffeeent books, some of which I have yet to read.
Christopher Tolkien does a quite good job of explaining the progress of the poems, or lays, in this book and how they develop into the later prose forms known from The Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales.
(The poem about Húrin's children in this book should not be confused with the book by the same title, as I understand it they're different stories, but as I haven't read the latter one yet I can't be sure).
It's never quite accurate to categorize Tolkien as a "modern" novelist.
He certainly did not match the trends of his time, and modern readers often struggle with his antique style, antique in the sense he is out of time by centuries.
Tolkien is not exactly prose writer, he's really an out of place bard, and in his poetry especially you see his true skill as an author.
To me "The Lay of Beleriand", which includes the unfinished epic poems of the the Lay of Leithian and the Children of Hurin, is Tolkien's greatest work.
Anyone who truly enjoys the works of JRR Tolkien will like this. Much of the story of Beren and Luthien is told here in prose. Their story is my favorite that is told in the The Silmarillion and being told in prose is beautiful. This book also has some of the earlier stories such as Thingol and Melian as well as further information about the construction and changes that these stories underwent. Much of the commentary can be skipped and the stories themselves enjoyed as they are.
We actually get the Lay of Leithian! The actual poem form! Yay! I mean, as usual, there's way too much commentary by Christopher Tolkien, but the purpose of the book is excellently served. The best of the History or Middle-earth books!
3 stars just because it's so darn difficult to read this kind of poetry...
It will be a great relief when that is accomplished and I then feel at liberty to go back and dip into a book and just read the parts which I really like.
It will be great to revisit the History and Middle-Earth series and just read all the main pieces by JRRT, and skip all the commentaries by his son, which turns pleasure into drudgery.I enjoyed both main pieces in this book.
Following on from the Lay of the Children of Hurin, the Lay of Leithian was much more satisfying with its rhythm and rhyme, and was much more comprehensible, and I very much enjoyed it.
In this chapter of the History of Middle Earth are the bountiful and beautiful attempts by Tolkien to render his tales of the First Age into epic and lengthy poetry.
I really wish the Histories of Middle Earth presented their textual changes and commentaries as margin annotation.
Particularly galling is the relegation of C.S. Lewis’ commentary to it’s own chapter outside the Lay. I would much rather have it alongside the text to “read it” along with him, as their inclusion afterwards have an incredibly frustration lack of context.It’s pretty emblematic of my dives into the various volumes of the History of Middle Earth.
So be warned, if you skip all the poems when you read Lord of the Rings then this book might not be for you.The bulk of tLoB contains two long poems: The Lay of the Children of Hurin in alliterative verse and The Lay of Leithian (i.e. The story of Beren and Luthien) in rhyming couplets.I know nothing about poetry, and indeed had no idea what alliterative verse was, even after reading the poem!
This is especially important for the story of Beren and Luthien, since the story of the Children of Hurin was fleshed out in other works.
This book should be read after The Silmarillion, and The Book of Lost Tales Part 2.
It contains really no new stories but tells two of my personal favorites, Turin's story and Beren and Luthien's story, in poem forms.
They are both great but Beren's story was better in my opinion.
Turin'a story was not even half complete (it doesn't get to the dragon) and it was also more difficult to understand (it is in alliterative verse).Overall, I enjoyed parts of this book and if you enjoyed The Book of Lost Tales you should definitely put this down as your next read.
Totally loved it! And I never expected it. I was actually hesitant to read this because I normally don't enjoy poetry. But I'm reading my way through the History of Middle Earth with a little group of readers and this was next and so I thought, well, let's try it.Fantastic! Here are the many different drafts in the form of poems of The Children of Hurin and The Lay of Leithian (Beren and Luthien). Never did I imagine the power of the vision, the depth of feelings and emotions, the beauty of the language. Loved it! Just loved it!
Since I do not have the time right now to do this book justice (but I hope to be able to soon), I will keep this review short and to the point;J.R.R. Tolkien is one of the greatest and most underrated poets of the English language and a fantastic writer. With "The Lays of Beleriand" Christopher Tolkien allows us to read (sometimes multiple versions of) the poetic tellings of tales told in the Simlarillion and provides valuable commentary.
I like poetry, but I can only read so much of it at one time before I can't concentrate. I would read a canto or so of 'The Lay of Leithian' every night, and I really enjoyed it. It flowed really beautifully and I could follow the plot line relatively well. There were some amazing lines and rhymes in there, I loved it, but I wish there had been more about what happened after they escaped. Now I need to read the Silmarillion again so I can remember what happens!
Okay I'm cheating, as I'm currently translating Christopher's commentaries in III & IV. But I promised myself never to regard work as "non-pleasure" reading, and I have to admit, I actually quite like the Lay of Leithian. Christopher is still overdoing it with the commentaries, but that's his style, and I think I'm slowly warming up to it, actually.
I have never read such exhilarating poetry. I feel lucky to have read it and so disappointed neither poem was finished. In poem form both the Lay of the Children of Hurin and the Lay of Leithian are much richer and fuller than they are in The Silmarillion. I absolutely adored this.
Mostly the children of Hurin an Beren and Luthien once more.. so I skipped most of the book, it was written earlier than the complete works on those 2 stories.
One of the most beautiful books I have ever read.
