https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172732.The_Motorcycle_Diaries
But I was not prepared to meet a man so deeply committed to the cause, without bothering which country he was fighting for.It was enigmatic for me how Guevara, born into an affluent family, immensely good-looking, lively, easy-going, friendly and with a prosperous future earmarked for him, would later become one of the most determined, daring and charismatic guerilla leaders.
An Argentine who fought for Cuba, and then, instead of resting on his laurels for the rest of his life, went off to fight in Congo, coming to his end in yet another warfare in Bolivia.So now I didn’t lose the chance to read this little book.
However, I decided to give the genre another chance, and after reading this book, I am glad that I did.So what is this book about?This is the diary of the Argentine doctor and revolutionary, Ernesto Guevara, more known by his nickname of "Che," as he traveled around South America with his friend Alberto Granado, using a motorcycle.
Along the way, Che experienced several facets of life in South America that later on shaped his revolutionary outlook in life.As I was reading this, I cannot help but make comparisons to another travelogue that I have read recently, and that was Jack Kerouac's On The Road.
Why haven't I read this before? There's a movie based on the book too, starring Gael García Bernal aka precious cinnamon roll.    "The future belongs to the people, and gradually, or in one strike, they will take power, here and in every country. The terrible thing is the people need to be educated, and this they cannot do before taking power, only after. They can only learn at the cost of their own mistakes, which will be very serious and will cost many innocent lives."  I have a weird misplace
"The future belongs to the people, and gradually, or in one strike, they will take power, here and in every country.
The terrible thing is the people need to be educated, and this they cannot do before taking power, only after.
They can only learn at the cost of their own mistakes, which will be very serious and will cost many innocent lives."  I have a weird misplaced crush on señor Bernal.
Ernesto Guevara and friend.
Self-Portrait, by Ernesto Guevara, Argentina, 1951.
Ernesto Guevara in Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1951.
I love sightseeing, visiting new places and learning about different cultures.
I'm no Che Guevara, but I do love my travel.
And if, at the same time, he’s somewhat of an adventurer, he might live through episodes of interest to other people and his haphazard record might read something like these notes.And so, the coin was thrown in the air, turning many times, landing sometimes heads and other times tails.
It is likely that out of 10 possible heads I have seen only one true tail, or vice versa.
you know what I like is mapsYou could break Guevara's life into three phases.
Phase 3 is when he quits his cushy job in the new Cuban government to go back to the jungle and lead another revolution, this one in Bolivia, because this is the one guy in the world who, like, every time he says "We should have a revolution," he immediately drops everything and starts one.

"This is not a story of incredible heroism, or merely the narrative of a cynic; at least I do not mean it to be. It is a glimpse of two lives that ran parallel for a time, with similar hopes and convergent dreams." At times I mourn the inadequacy of the written word and how poor of an approximation it is of lived experiences. And yet reading transports you to places and into minds you could never have known otherwise, in any other way. As I closed this book with a sigh and put it aside, I felt
It’s funny, the Eurocentricism that I find among my people, not sad but funny as I read through this book and realized that there are races and cultures and countries and forests and mountains worth dreaming of, about which we have such little interest, and absolutely no knowledge.
But this book is not special merely because it is the future-Che who is writing it, but because of South America itself, and all the places Ernesto and Alberto journey through.
There is something the movie doesn't give you, and that is the narrative, the inner dialogue which accompanied Ernesto as he traveled silently through South America.
قبل از اینکه چگوارا به رهبر انقلاب کوبا بدل شود، یک دانشجوی پزشکی درونگرا بود که در بوینس آیرس زندگی
I wanted to read this book so badly, mainly because I wanted to read about Che. He is such a popular icon and you see so many people wearing t-shirts with his image on them etc.
I would open Wikipedia to read more about the cities mentioned in the book.
I also read stuff about Fiedel Castro and few more people mentioned in the book.
Apart from Che's personal life, this book was interesting to read in many aspects.
Machu Picchu, which is now one of the wonders of the world, has been explained very well by Che in the book.
Sometimes my job sees me heading off to the worst kind of places (chemical works and sewage plants being two prime examples), however sometimes the gods just smile down and I find myself being sent somewhere really good.
Go on, off you go!Overall I enjoyed this special random free "book-in-a-bin" find, but it was not quite as inspirational as generations of Che t-shirt wearing wannabee revolutionaries would have me believe.
The most amazing part of the book was the way that the police could always be relied on to provide a place to stay and some free food when all else failed.
At a time when everyone is trying to settle down into a career which would reap harvests eventually, where you dream of going on your dream trips eventually, where you would want to read that book or draw the painting or write the poem, eventually; we have a book about a 20 something who does it all.
Read this book, if you dream of travelling, if you had dreams of travelling.
May bea towards the end of it you just might want to live the life Che Guevara did.
And if, at the same time, he’s somewhat of an adventurer, he might live through episodes of interest to other people and his haphazard record might read something like these notes.And so, the coin was thrown in the air, turning many times, landing sometimes heads and other times tails.
Coming from a well to do family and taking time off from studying medicine, young Ernesto and friend Alberto travels across Latin America and witnesses the human condition and the suffering it faces.
This is a first-hand account of Ernesto "Che" Guevara's trip across South America with his good friend.
It's just a blow-by-blow account of the events that took place.What I found interesting was that Che was a passionate medical student who just wanted to help people, quite in contrast to his later guerrilla life with Castro.
It's amazing that such a caring, gentle person would go on to become such a vicious individual.I guess that's part of the enigmatic personality that has kept Che Guevara on people's minds for the past 50 years.
La cronaca del viaggio che ci regalano i due personaggi si mescola alla storia di un'amicizia destinata a durare negli anni: Ernesto, diventato in seguito il Che attuerà la Rivoluzione cubana e inviterà l'amico a far parte del governo...
il viaggio raccontato nelle pagine del libro è la prova di un'amicizia vera che durerà fino alla prematura morte del Che nel 1967.
Un libro da leggere sicuramente: mai lasciarsi ingannare dalle lunghe descrizioni dei luoghi, perchè la meraviglia di questi due diari di viaggio sta proprio nei luoghi quasi incontaminati dell'America latina; in più è la storia di un'amicizia che va al di là delle credenze politiche, basata sul rispetto, sull'altruismo e sul servizio per gli ultimi.
For life, courage, adventure, endurance and whatnot.
Non-adherence to Marxist ideology should not prejudice me against him.
With all the bumps, jerks and brief halts, this is a fascinating journey.
A real journey which made me dream throughout and imagine myself as a part of this adventure.
Lastly, I do not rate such kind of non-fiction on literary merit or judge it structurally as a book.
Instead, on the merit of life, on the merit of human qualities and the extraordinary element of their lives which made them worth writing in the first place.
To me, such books celebrate what is best in humans.
لو كان الرومي إختارطريق الحقيقة بالرقص و العبث فجيفارا قد إختار دربه بالدراجة البخارية ..في البداية أنا محتار كل الحيرة لأبدأ الحديث بأي من الجملتين ؟؟"علمتُ أنه حين تشق الروح الهادية العظيمة الإنسانية إلى شطرين متصارعين، سأكون إلى جانب الشعب.
أرى نفسي قربانًا في الثورة الحقيقية، المعادل العظيم لإرادة الأفراد.
أنا مؤمن بأن كل عظماء هذا العالم أو علي الأقل من لن تنساهم البشرية يعرفون بعضهم حق المعرفة حتي و إ، لم يعاصروا بعضهم ، جيفارا يقرأ للوركا ليست صدفة  ، جيفارا ..
هذا الكتاب يسرد وقائع رحلة قام بها ارنستو (تشى) جيفارا مع صديقه ألبرتو جرينادو على ظهر دراجة نارية ع
نُشرت المغامرات التي مروا بها في هذه الرحلة في كتاب لجيفارا بعنوان يوميات دراجة نارية, وفي كتاب لألبيرتو بعنوان السفر مع جيفارا: صناعة ثائر.هل نستطيع قراءة يوميات جيفارا يوميات دراجة نارية بعيداً عن صورة الأسطورة التي تخطت الزمن بإنسانيتها وشعبيتها الجارفة وكفاحيتها الشهيرة؟ عند تحييد البعد الأسطوري لشخصية تتمتع بكاريزما طاغية مثل جيفارا لا يمكن أن نقبل تلك اليوميات البسيطة المفعمة بروح الشباب والسخرية الحادة.
تا حالا نشده بود از خوندن بدبختی های یه نفر انقدر لذت ببرم و بخندم، خاطرات سفر هشت ماهه ارنستو و دوستش آلبرتو به کشورهای امریکای جنوبی از مردم میگه، از مشکلات سفر میگه، از بی پولی میگه ولی سرشار از حس آزادیه، سرشار از حس زندگیه، حتی آدم رو ترغیب میکنه که خونه به دوشی و سفر این مدلی رو تجربه کنه."ما هنوز زنده بودیم و در متن حادثه زندگی حضور داشتیم، همین برای ما کافی بود. بین میلیاردها احتمال نبودن، قرعه بودن به نام ما افتاده بود"
الرحلات/الأسفار تمنحنا ، تُعلمنا الكثير .. تُرينا الصورة من كل الزوايا .. تُعيد فلسفة الحياة في قلوبنا .. أؤمن أن الإنسان يتغير وتتوسع معارفة بعد كل رحلة سفر يقوم بها ، فكيف إذا كانت الرحلة لـ عام كامل وبرفقة صديق على دراجة نارية؟الكتاب ممتع ، وتفاصيل الرحلة غاية في البساطة والجمال أجمل ما في الكتاب إحساس الحرية العميق ..؛ أغبط من يَملك روحاً توّاقة للإرتحال مع القدرة على ذلك
After reading The Bolivian Diary: Authorized Edition it was interesting to go back and reread this earlier more well-known work. In this one he is a much happier person soaking in the beauty of nature and the friendliness of the people. He dreams of returning after his road trip to work maybe in a leper hospital.There's a lot about being hungry and who fed him what. In between eating, fixing the motorcycle and then hitching rides, there are glimpses of his social conscious, his hatred of American Imperialism and the poverty of the suppressed.
The diary of legendary revolutionist, Che Guevara, as he tours Latin America by motorcycle in his early twenties.
This is a much more sensitive and positive Che, an eternal optimist, not the hard-hearted and resolute guerilla fighter of the Cuban revolution.
The copper mines of Chile struck Che hard, paving the way for his anti-capitalist views.
The lessons learned in the physical demands of his tour: cold, hunger and his debilitating asthma undoubtedly served him well in the mountains of Cuba during the revolution.
At the end of the diary is a speech given by Che in Havana after the Cuban revolution.
A must-read book for fans of Guevara and/or Cuba.
3.5-4 starsReally interesting, and it actually reads like the diary it is.
I was a bit perplexed by the idea that Che and Alberto made it through 2/3 of their journey with next to no money and basically existed on the hospitality of strangers.
Perplexing most likely because I don't think it's something anyone could do in the US in 2017, but that's one of the differences between the US in 2017 and South America in the 1950s.
Beyond that, his compassion and intelligence shines on the page, and because it's a diary you really feel how upset he is to see people living in squalor and without proper care.
The movie, and now the book, allowed me a chance to meet the real Ernesto Guevara, later known as Che, in the formative days of his early 20s, before he was radicalized.
Instead, Guevara writes about his trip with his traveling companion, the ways in which they con people out of food and shelter, how nice the Civil Guard is in various countries, and Guevara's frequent asthma attacks.Ok, it's not that blase.
It was interesting to see how Guevara the revolutionary saw the world, compared to the journey just read.
It was like reading about two different people.
The Diary did a great job expressing the feelings and thoughts of a young man who changed from his journey through Latin America.
It was really cool to get into the young Che's head and see how, why, and when he began to change into the revolutionary icon so many of us know him as today.
Since this is a diary, it reads as one, and the events that create an overarching continuous story are loosely held together.
However, where this lacks in story, the Diary makes up for in the analytical, internal musings of Che's mind.
So very glad I read this...some evening...when I am in the frame of mind, I'd like to see the film.....Very interesting,but the man was not the best writer...IMHO......but his life is interesting,and I grew to have a better understanding of his motivations in Cuba....I think his heart was in the right place, not sure Communism is the best thing for Cuba...but hell, America seems to have its problems...is any form of government the best?
Maybe a mixture...Anyone have a suggestion of a biography that's a great read about this man?
I'd sure like to hear about it.
I hope to see Cuba someday.
2.5 Stars. The stuff we actually do in class about the book is often more interesting than the book itself. But there were some interesting insights that this book showed, and it was quite the journey they went on I will admit.
That photo, incidentally, was also what prompted me to read Che’s The Motorcycle Diaries in the first place (no, I haven't seen the movie, but probably will now).And what a throughly engrossing little book this is.
In 1952, just about to complete his medical degree and become a doctor, the then-24 year old Ernesto ‘Che’ Guevara and his friend, the leprologist Alberto Granado, set off on a motorcycle named La Poderosa (‘The Mighty One’, a hilariously inappropriate name, as it turned out) across South America.
There is humour here, fun, and some interesting insights into the times, the continent, and the man himself.My only grouse with The Motorcycle Diaries was that Guevara tends to be too brief at times.
Sure they were low on fuel, finance & luck, but they got great passion for life & a Great Spirit to move forward as life takes them.This book is a mere travelogue on surface level, but on deeper level, it’s an introduction to the human face of Che Guevera, who was introduced to the world of suffering that has a role in shaping of a revolutionary in him.
You have just heard of Che Guevara.2.
This book told me how Ernesto Guevara transformed from a humble and passionate medical student into a articulate, cunning and brilliant revolutionary who not only changed the face of the entire Latin American continent but shaped the perspectives and the thoughts of millions of people from all the world over.This book was eloquently penned and I thought that I was literally reading a novel.
From his early life, Che Guevara embodied the necessary traits, ideologies, beliefs and motivations that propelled him as the revolutionary and the icon that we now know today.
