https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152622.Decolonising_the_Mind
But its most important area of domination was the mental universe of the colonised, the control through culture, of how people perceived themselves and their relationship to the world.”I read this book with my experiences in Africa, conversations with my relatives and friends, and my education at the back of my mind.
The more I read books on Africa, be they about art, language, history, or politics, the more I’m amazed how the continent is seen, in many people’s minds, as a homogeneous country.

A few years later he published this polemic, which he said would be his last writing in English in any genre.Consequently, he's now probably even more famous among sociolinguists than students of literature, because Decolonising the Mind is a rare example of a top practitioner setting out a total rationale, complete with backstory and running examples, of the political and cultural implications of choosing one language over another.It would be possible to argue on purely artistic grounds that a local language is simply better at describing certain things – the rhythms of daily life, say, or regional wildlife – than another.
Ngugi wa Thiong'o explains that language allows us to define ourselves in relation to our national and social environment: our capacity to confront the world creatively is dependant on how those images [of nature and nurture formed by the dynamic process of history & culture reflecting each other] correspond or not to that reality, how they distort or clarify the reality of our strugglesHe describes his experience of learning-through-storytelling alongside everyday communication and shared experience in his mother tongue, Gikuyu, and how the harmony of his learning life was broken in colonial schools, where speaking Gikuyu was punished while all achievement in English was rewarded and prioritised.

The western world understands colonialism in terms of the most visible aspects of a nation, namely its leadership.
Decolonizing the Mind reminds us of another of these aftereffects, specifically, the domination of language by the Western World.
By dominating African languages, and asserting the superiority of European ones over them, Western nations did (and African administrations still do) perpetuate a system where educated whites rise to the highest social strata while native Africans are resigned to the working classes and peasantry.
It is part of that struggle for that world, in which my health is not dependent on another's leprosy; my cleanliness not on another's maggot-ridden body; and my humanity not on the buried humanity of others."Ngugi wa Thiong'o's Decolonising the Mind: The Politics of Language in African Literature is a series of essays which discusses about language and the role it plays in history, culture, literature and the lives of its people.
Barring the exceptions, as Ngugi said, only the peasantries and working classes compendiate the African languages.The sense of African identity and African belongingness was snatched away to be replaced by those of the Westerners.
The western world understands colonialism in terms of the most visible aspects of a nation, namely its leadership.
Decolonizing the Mind reminds us of another of these aftereffects, specifically, the domination of language by the Western World.
By dominating African languages, and asserting the superiority of European ones over them, Western nations did (and African administrations still do) perpetuate a system where educated whites rise to the highest social strata while native Africans are resigned to the working classes and peasantry.
I had the pleasure to read part of this work a few months ago for my Postcolonial Literature class and had been meaning to read the whole of it ever since. Now that I found some time to do it, I gotta say this is a MUST for anyone interested in the effects of colonization in African literature, fiction and theatre. Very thought-provoking and even more intense knowing this was actually Thiong'o's way of saying goodbye to writing in English.
بيقول - من خلال تجربته الشخصية للأسف اثناء الدراسة - ان كان بيتم معاقبة الشخص اللى يقول كلمة من لغته الأم فى أى وقت بأنه يلبس طايقة مكتوب عليها انا غبى، إلى ان يفتن على شخص تانى، وبكدا الشخص التانى يلبس القبعة.
اللغة مش بس تعبير وانما هى أفكار بتساهم فى تعريف الفرد لنفسه وللناس اللى حواليه، لان - بديهى برده - اللغة هى وسيلة للتواصل جوا الفرد و مع الناس اللى حواليه.الكتاب بدأ يتكلم عن الطبقة البرجوازية اللى تخلفت الأستقلال.
وعليه اعتقد الحل هو أعطاء اللغة الأفريقية أهمية بالغة، لكن لايعنى ان الكتابة باللغة الانجليزية طريق مسدود.فى عصر النهضة المصرى أغلب أدباء العصر كان بيسعوا لنفس المبدأ، الفكرة انه كان بشكل مختلف.
Gracias a los premios Nobel de literatura se pueden descubrir autores que de otra manera permanecerían ignotos por la mayoría de habitantes de la comunidad lectora.
Lo excepcional es que el autor, de manera clarividente, lo enfoca hacia el uso del lenguaje como elemento imprescindible para salirse del yugo colonizador constituyendo un texto que bien puede encuadrarse entre lo más florido de los estudios postcoloniales.
An amazing book by a Kenyan author on understanding the psychology of exploitation and oppression by colonialism and imperialism. Its focus is on the exploitation of Africans by Europeans through the domination of culture, but its lessons are applicable to the struggles of all people.It's a must read. I learned about it from a Palestinian activist visiting the United States.
By the time Ngugi wa Thion’o wrote this book he had no doubts about the path to take, he saw renouncing to Gikuyu as tantamount to alienating himself, and the people he most identified with from their common cultural heritage:The choice of language and the use to which language is put is central to a people's definition of themselves in relation to their natural and social environment, indeed in relation to the entire universe.
What about a non African who wrote about Africa: did his work qualify as African literature?
من الكتب التي وسَّعت مداركي في عمل المستعمر اتجاه إفريقيا بمعضلته لتخليص تلك الشعوب من هويتها وإرثها
He just refuses to make English his primary language of literary communication.This discovery is not particularly surprising, given how I've seen other white people misread and miscomprehend similarly clear statements of intent from people of color in discussions of race.--Finished reread.
English languages, the reconstruction of an Afro-centric canon, and what that might mean for a white woman in the US, as well as the chapters on the construction of the novel; this time I was fascinated by the depiction of the democratic development of theater, enabled by the shift from English to Gikuyu.Notes for eventual review:- wa Thiong'o's postcolonialism draws much of its theoretical basis from Marxism, although he is stronger on feminism (if not heterocentrism) than most of the base Marxist source texts- Marxism's great gift to cultural studies is the demystification of the economic basis of cultural practices (including but not limited to art and education).
God bless this man. Wow. Real review to come.
واثينغو في كتابه هذا يدعو إلى العودة للذات، للغة الإفريقية، للكف عن استخدام لغات المستعمر الذي عاد مجددا بشكله النيو كولونيالي ليسرق "كنوز العقل الإفريقي" والفصل بين لغة الثقافة ولغة التعليم حيث يشتت الطفل ويعرضه "لثقافة هي نتاج عالم خارجي بالنسبة له" وهكذا.. الكتاب جيد بصفة عامة، يعرض صورة واضحة لمفهوم تطويع المستعمر اللغة لخدمة مصالحه.(توصية أيمن عبدالرحيم في سلسلته الوعي اللغوي -مدرسة شيخ العمود)
المره دي رحلتي مع كاتب وقاص وناقد كيني،الكتاب دا بالذات عن رحلته مع الأدب الافريقي علي وجه الخصوص،مج

Decolonising the Mind is a fascinating and thought-provoking dissection of the effects of colonization in African literature through the lens of one of the most well-respected African writers.
The book, Ngugi wa Thiong'o's last in English, traces the effects colonization has had on literature, theatre, and fiction in Africa and what has been done and can be done to create something more authentically and wholly African.
It raises questions of self and culture, imperialism, and language through the eyes and stories of someone who grew up in colonial Kenya and has spent his life fighting to separate African literature from the European influences that have so pervaded it.
I took a class with this author. He's extremely intelligent and presents an interesting argument about the politics of language. In this critical theory text, he addresses the way the colonial process works on the cultural level (as opposed to the material, political, or even physical level). He encourages the use of African languages (rather than the language of former colonizers) in African literature. He also explains how his personal experiences informed his opinions on the politics of language, which I found interesting and rather persuasive.
Very thought provoking and insightful work. I read a book like this once long ago by a lesser well known author called Chika Onyeani, the book was called "Capitalist Nigger: The Road to Success: A Spider-Web Doctrine. While Onyeani's work may not have had the editorial attention Thiongo's work received, they both speak the same language regarding Western domination and the destruction of the African identity. Great read.
Everyone should read this!
África y su cultura es tan vasta, tan rica y tan variada que aun haciendo un esfuerzo por no recurrir a tópicos, por no seguir aquello en lo que se nos educa con respecto al continente y por no aprehender de/a los africanos tal y como nos los comunican la sociedad y los medios....
Porque "La búsqueda de nuevas direcciones en la lengua, en la literatura (...) es un aspecto inseparable del conjunto de las luchas de los africanos contra el imperialismo en su estado neocolonial.
Més que canviar fets concrets en la educació kenyana, el que cal fer és tractar de canviar com està enfocat l'ensenyament, no s'ha de deixar de llegir els grans clàssics de la literatura anglesa ni deixar de banda l'anglès, però si que l'educació s'ha de fonamentar en les llengües natives com el swahili i el kikuyu en aquest cas.
La recerca de la rellevància (rellevància sobre què cal estudiar i què no cal estudiar, què cal incloure en l'educació obligatòria) exigeix més que una mera elecció de materials.
wa Thiongo argues that, while physical domination under colonialism was a matter of violence, cultural power was a matter principally of language and education.
Specifically, he's interested in how the imposition of the English language and an English-rooted literary curriculum in schools alienated Kenyan/colonized subjects from their own cultures.
This alienation particularly affected the bourgeoisie who then became the politicians, ministers, and bureaucrats of the post-independence, neo-colonial governments.
Marx & (primarily British) Marxist thought is present thruout, but Ngũgĩ's fundamental position & arguments do not require the reader to accept more than these basics.The middle chapters of the book are in large part autobiographical, reflecting on Ngũgĩ's first work in Gĩkũyũ in a community theatre—an appealing account of collaborative artistic production that Ngũgĩ overtly compares to Boal's Theatre of the Oppressed—& then his struggles to employ Gĩkũyũ as a novelistic language during his subsequent imprisonment & isolation, writing Caitaani Mutharabaini (
عندما استرد الكاتب الكيني الكبير نغوجي واثيونغو اسمه الافريقي ولغته الافريقية، لم يكن يفعل شيئا استثنائياً، لأنه عبّر، ضمن مسار غالب على اختيارات الكتاب التابعة، عن محاولة، توصف احياناً باليائسة او المدمرة، لاسترداد الهوية ومواجهة الامبريالية الثقافية او الاستعمار الثقافي، أو ما سماه واثيونغو نفسه "استعمار العقل".
ولم يكتف واثيونغو بالمواجهة، بل دعا الى "تصفية استعمار العقل " فقد وجد ان الخلل اللغوي والثقافي، باستعمال اللغات الامبريالية او الاستعمارية وثقافاتها هو خلل علاقة مع المستعمر او الامبريالي المهيمن والغاشم.
كما ان الحلول ايضا ليست مسألة قرار شخصي بقدر ما هي تحول اجتماعي أساسي لبنى مجتمعاتنا يبدأ من قطيعة حقيقية مع الاستعمار وحلفائه من الحكام المحليين".
Decolonising the mind is a perfect book that dares to touch on the subject many western imperialist and neo-colonized mind wouldn't find interesting.
The subject of our African languages to be used in literal work has always been met with different forces both internal and external but still, they have remained strong.
"But African languages refused to die.
They would not simply go the way of Latin to become the fossils for linguistic archaeology to dig up, classify, and argue about the international conferences"Ngugi Wa Thiong argues why it necessary to preserve our languages like Swahili, Yoruba, Amharic among others.
This year has been great, filled with amazing reads and this is certainly one of the best.
Wa Thiong'o expresses what I was saying/thinking for a while now, with an intelligent perception, wit, a nice sense of humour, and an acute look at the plight of Africa and its language under imperialism and the white man's rule.
Certainly, us Africans should and must be looking to learning our languages, and writing our work in those languages, because it is our language after all.
It is not only the embrace and resurgence of African traditions, but the fact that the languages brought here does not belong here, and should be reflected upon more.
