https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/942019.August_Is_A_Wicked_Month
A definite look of devil-may-care sitting snug around the corners of her mouth.The blurb for the book reads something like.
liaisons in France.Hey, I thought, it would be way cheaper to read a story of wanton lasciviousness than to get an infected belly button (and a lot less painful, too).So, I splurged and found myself a lovely first edition of this book, a hardcover which smells like the 1960s, which is just when this novel happened to have been written by Irish author, Edna O'Brian.I was that determined that I'd be living vicariously through the licentious protagonist, Ellen, and I figured we'd be friends for years.Er.
I'm pretty sure that Miss O'Brien considered that this was a novel written for women, not gals and one can only speculate with lines like that, that this is a close as Gavin has ever gotten to being inside a woman, er inside the skin of a woman.This started out in a light hearted way - a sticky August, the beginnings of a potentially stickier liaison and then the decision to abandon London and head to Cannes where a holiday might promise the luxury of fast men, faster cars and nights of heady passion as surf crashes on beaches and the Moroccan zephyr flutters the luxuriant drapes of the master bedroom.
Although this book is about a lonely 28-y/o housewife, Ellen, she is not really your sex-starved character who sleeps with men from one bed to another.
I've read the trilogy's first book and I thought that O'Brien once again captured the inner feelings of women in Ireland during the time particularly their relationships with men and their place in society as a whole.Ellen in the story is separated from her husband who is an ex-army.
The "wicked" in the title of the book refers to the sex skills of Ellen's lover.
It’s about a young Irish woman with an eight year old son who’s been separated from her husband for a year.
She meets a younger American girl who’s just run into a famous Hollywood actor in their hotel.
There’s a tragedy concerning someone outside their party and the group forced to head back to town.They goto a burlesque show and the flirting and innuendos continue but Ellen is really only interested in the actor.
She languishes on in France where flirting now becomes a compulsive distraction as well as a physical need.I loved O’Brien’s character, Ellen.
She’s not a girl though not quite a woman.
A strange book, sort of surreal.
I haven't really read much Edna O 'Brien (although i seem to be collecting a number of her books).
It has the capacity to induce violence among ignorant people.Ellen is bored at home in London, bored with her straight-laced sexual encounters and bored with life in general.
Her ex husband has taken their son away on holiday and Ellen decides that maybe a holiday is what she also needs.
O'Brien has an exciting way of showing her character's flaws, lumps and bumps without taking away any of their mystique.
I will be reading more of her.
More of a novella, O'Brien does a tremendous job of bringing us inside the mind of a woman, Ellen, who is hurting and insecure after a divorce.
In an effort to forget, Ellen takes a holiday in France, and basically behaves in a way that ends up reinforcing her sadness and depression.
I loved the way this book was written.
O'Brien really takes you inside Ellen's mind the entire time, and it is hard not to empathize with her feelings and situation and her deep deep loneliness.
It's hard to share without spoiling.So if you require books be uplifting in order to enjoy them, don't pick this one up.
There's no one like Edna O'Brien to burst the fantasy bubble of the fairy tale romance.
People who fall in love stagger out the other side stunned gutted disillusioned awakened.
O'Brien's skills are consistent from book to book, and the story isn't sensationally told.
O'Brien's protagonist is a young, divorced, mother, who decides to go on a frisky holiday for the week her child is away with his father.
But, her fantasy comes up against human beings and human existence, and she gets nothing of the raunchy or tender fling that she envisioned.
Dreams and reality have absolutely nothing in common in this story.
Ellen is @28 year old divorced Irish Catholic living in London; her mother disowned her for marrying a heathen.
Out of spite and seeking thrills elsewhere she heads for the French Rivera and books into a pretty basic hotel where creeps prevail amongst the male staff.Four weeks later she is back in the UK having found the thrills she sought didn’t transpire that well; indeed she returns with some shocking news and a bitter pill to swallow.
She also comes back having matured and clear as to what it is she indeed seeks from life and from love.This was a quick read I devoured in two evenings.
Waste of time
Rather than spend a lonely summer in London, Ellen decides to take herself on a lovely vacation to the French Riviera only to walk into a comedy of errors.
After being brought as low as possible, Ellen does find her way back to herself and living her life.This is not a happy or easy book, but that is not a bad thing as life is about exploring the good, the bad and the ugly.
This is not a book I will recommend to most people as many of my friends do not like unsavory characters and negative emotions.
This must have been audacious stuff back in 1965, with its frank depiction of feminine carnality, but today it seems dated. Holidaying in France and eating an artichoke is no longer the height of decadence - and please, please do not describe a penis as resembling 'a foxglove in a secret glade'.
Ellen Sage is, like Kate, the divorced mother of a young son.
Her estranged husband and child go on a camping holiday to Wales and rather than sit around stuffy London, Ellen books a flight to the Côte d'Azure, looking for sex—pure and simple.
And then she learns her son has been killed by a car crossing a road.There is something about the entire book that reminded me of La dolce vita.
Nevertheless, there is a new level of ennui and resignation, of displacement and alienation that in some ways reminded me of—and anticipates—Joan Didion's early fiction: Play It as It Lays and Book of Common Prayer.
Another well written Edna O'Brien novel, but not as entertaining and charming and the first two in the Country Girl series.
The protagonist, Ellen, is in her late 20s and who is no longer living with her husband, looking after her 8 year old son in London in the 1960s.
O'Brien very effectively describes a woman who is hurting, insecure and unsure of what she wants.
She decides on the spur of the moment to fly to France for a short one week holiday whilst her ex-husband has taken their son on a camping holiday.
This book filled me with an incredible sense of sadness, as in some ways I found myself in complete undersranding of ellen's emotions.
I found it quite a different type of read from the same author's The Country Girls Trilogy, and look forward to reading more by her to see if she is yet again able to sucessfully make another stylistic change, or if it will more closely match one or the other of her books I have already completed.
As needs must with novels of this type it was quite short, only 138 pages long, so if you are unsure of it at least it will not be a lot of time spent.
A short novel, it is nevertheless jam-packed with the O'Brien's trademark haunting prose - in her best works (House of Splendid Isolation, In the Forest), her trance-like writing is both comforting and harrowing - often at the very same time.
The central character is so lost, that you ache for her while at the same time you'd like to slap her and tell her to get over it (though I can't honestly say my choices would have been any different).
O’Brien’s works often revolve involve the inner feelings of women, and their problems in relating to men and to society as a whole.If you read her novel August is a Wicked Month with this information in mind you can really gain an appreciation for her efforts.
However, O’Brien’s writing is so fine and the story so honest that I cannot help but be impressed.
Also interesting, and equally disgusting, was the treatment of the main character by men and later the medical profession in regard to her sexuality.
I just scrolled through a long list of tags to describe this book and rejected every one.
Set in the 1960s, it was probably considered quite 'modern' at the time.
The main character, a 28 year old mother (and former nurse) - separated from her husband - goes on a holiday in France, by herself, for the purpose of having a sexual adventure.
It's not really about her marriage, nor is it about her sexual or emotional liberation.
Even though the title and book cover were both promising and attractive, I left my copy on a "borrower's" shelf in a hotel in South Africa.

What a strange and fascinating little novel.
O'Brien describes certain emotions and sensations in a way that is jarringly blunt, but still genuine and familiar.
Ellen, the protagonist, is both naive and sensual, and her desperation for physical and emotional fulfillment leads her to make decisions that, as a reader, made me cringe.
The contrast between the raw honesty of the prose and the incomprehensibility of so many of Ellen's decisions has the effect of pulling the reader into the narrative, then shoving her outside of it almost immediately, only to pull her back in again moments later.
I enjoyed this novel very much.
A lushly written voyage of self discovery! INTO A SWAMP OF CATHOLIC GUILT. I guess in the early 1960s a nice irish lady couldn't buy a plane ticket and some scandalous trousers and head to France for anonymous holiday sex without a Severe God Smiting. Make a note of it, sluts who like carmine polish on your toes. Make a note of it and keep those knees together lest your sin kill your kid and net you a nice case of trichomoniasis.
Single mom just wants to be loved. Maybe it will be her ex-husband. Maybe it will be Hugh, the friend with benefits. Maybe it will be Leonard or Jason or the violinist or the bellboy. Maybe it will be Bobby, Mr. Possibly Right.Maybe it will be just a yeast infection and not gonorrhea.
Looks too good to miss...
Got the new autobiography, but had never read anything by her, so gave this a try first. DARK! And attitudes of its time. But well written and compulsively readable!
I suppose this is a landmark of some sort in women's literature?
Again, its not bad writing, but the book is populated by characters whose obnoxiousness and shallowness are such that I wouldn't want to know them in real life.
Edna O'Brien's other books, listed at the end of the paperback, have titles suggesting soft-porn like this one....
Academics may have to study this stuff, and thus the Penguin imprint, and do read it if you are interested in bad-girl lit of the late 1950's, but otherwise, book lovers, move on to what you really enjoy reading.
Coming off getting dumped from an affair gone nowhere and facing weeks of loneliness, Ellen books a trip to the French Riviera and goes shopping for the kind of scandalous clothes that will advertise her licentious openness to new experiences: trousers!
We've got a case of full-on Irish Catholic repression here, ca 1965, dawn of the sexual revolution.
O'Brien, whose books were banned and burned upon publication for their frank descriptions that 45 years of social changes make seem almost coy, reads like a spiritual predecessor to Nuala O'Faolain.
August is a Wicked Month was written in 1965 and may seem rather dated now.
Ellen has left behind her life in Ireland (repression, Catholicism and Magdalen Laundries) and now lives in 'Swinging London'.
August is a wicked month for her in several ways.O'Brien's style is often languid and sensual, inviting the reader to share in the senses and sensations of her protagonist.
She arrives back in London 'not happy, not unhappy' to face 'a cool and lovely autumn' that will contrast with the five sizzling days suffered by Londonders during August.
Her son leaves with his father for a camping/fishing outing and in her boredom, Ellen has a one night fling and then leaves for beaches of France for a vacation.
1001 description of Ellen, " just average and her life is just average".
I think points the author may have been making is that Ellen's Catholic guilt made all her attempts to make her life a fantasy of seduction and hedonism just made her more and more guilt.
I don't think it is just average to have one night stands and take of for the beaches alone on vacation in August.
Ellen is a woman living in the sixties, a new permissive society, where sexual experimentation leads to everything from pornographic photos being taken of her to being used as a non-chemical Viagra to sexually transmitted disease.
A fish out of water, not just in being Irish living in London, or the not-so-perfect-one in the holiday beach scene, or the wife and mother without a husband or child, Ellen is a woman in a patriarchal world trying to cast off the shackles of a Catholic guilt complex and years of conditioning closing in on her horizons.
Even if I haven't exactly run away to the South of France, nor got caught up with a Hollywood star, I have sought solace on a summer holiday and been propositioned by characters who turn out to be less than savoury and so often when reading O'Brien I feel I have experienced similar situations.
Her heroine is a much more complicated and nuanced Bridget Jones, wanting to be proactive but ending up being acted upon rather than taking the initiative.
Ellen may not be a heroine, but she is a woman trying to find solace, and the reader can identify with her quest.
What to make of this novel? It's weird. Fairly good at times, weird and difficult to believe in other parts. It seems somewhat outdated, sixties' preoccupations are prominent in the development of the story. Preoccupations that are quite different from those of today. A major flwa is that the background of Ellen is only touched upon which makes it hard to understand her motives. All in all this novel has some serious flaws.
