https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156784.Permutation_City
It’s a bit like finding out your girlfriend is really a transgender biker - a mixture of fearful awe and fascinated interest.
This is Tohu, the Shattering of the Vessels through which the original unity of the universe is broken into fragments, both physical and spiritual.
Tohu happens psychically as well for individuals.
These spiritual bits can become quite unruly in their condition of fragmented isolation.
Paradoxically, of course, such a ‘rebirth’ also involves the ‘death’ of the fragmented Selves.
If those conditions are met then my patchy understanding of the scientific details is not too much of an impediment and the bits that get through to me tend to be quite fascinating.So it is with Permutation City which had me hooked from Chapter One which takes place inside a computer (no, not the plastic casing!) and is told from the point of view of a simulated personality, a software version of the protagonist.
Without going into the synopsis this book is essentially about what constitute reality, an examination of the nature of the consciousness, and the implication and psychological impact of digitization of personalities for the original people and the "Copies".This cover nicely depicts the virtual city.The sf trope of digitizing or simulating personalities utilized so well in Richard K.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review."I was six years old when my parents told me that there was a small, dark jewel inside my skull, learning to be me"...With this starts off one of the most astonishing short stories I've ever read. If you haven't read it, I urge you to do so. Egan questions what it really means to be human in a way that it's quite unsurpassed in my mind.
Egan doesn't write about emotional soap operas, if that's what I wanted I would just go out and talk to real people, but he writes about ideas.
I think his charachters are quite believeable but they just aren't the focus of the show.In Permutation City Egan draws out some of the consequences of strong AI, in particular the hypothesis that any system which implements the same computation as the human brain would have the same experiences.
If you want an emotional soap opera or you stop listening as soon as people talk about abstract things like math or philosophy don't even bother reading the blurb on the back.
It’s incredibly cerebral, consisting of more science than story as if Egan was more concerned in establishing the credibility of his vision of a world where humans clone themselves electronically and live in virtual worlds to computer programmers and quantum theory boffins than make any kind of appeal to people like me who simply want a good story!
I’d suggest though that this is only likely to appeal to hardcore SF buffs who demand any vision of the future be scientifically and technologically justified in painstaking detail.
If so, read on.Permutation City details attempts in the mid-21st century to create an artificial universe based in the Autoverse, a computer-generated environment where digital copies of wealthy people can enjoy a limited form of immortality in virtual reality.
If I can piece together my own coherent space and time from data scattered so widely that it might as well be part of some giant cloud of random numbers, then what makes you think that you’re not doing the very same thing?Is your mind completely blown at this point?
What starts and ends as a basic search for immortality as data, as in uploading perfect copies of yourself to cheat death indefinitely, makes this 1994 novel a rather focused utopian novel.
When the universe is math and math is the universe, a perfect copy as data will have no real difference with everything we have.
Create a universe that is self-evolving, have it compete with itself and all the parts within it, run a simulation of Life, and turn Darwinism and Game Theory upon data elements.It's smart.
We're already the running software platform in our own universe, after all.
How do you define 'science fiction'?From a quote from an interview with sci-fi author Ted Chiang: “Sometimes, people who read my work tell me, ‘I like it, but it’s not really science fiction, is it?’” he says. “And I always feel like, no, actually, my work is exactly science fiction.” After Star Wars forever made the genre synonymous with what Chiang calls “adventure stories dressed up with lasers,” people forgot that science fiction includes the word “science” for a reason: It is supposed to be
So let's talk about a theory that assuredly influenced Egan's writing of Permutation City: Quantum Electrodynamic's 'Sum-over-possibilities' approach.Suppose I want to know whether some particle which starts at A will end up at point B and what path it will take.
And, finding it out, what would they do with this knowledge?" What follows is a compelling exploration of consciousness, religion, posthumanism, immortality, and, yes, the science and math behind some of these ideas.That’s where we encounter a second problem in reading Greg Egan.
Rereading this book 15 years later reminds me why I still bother reading Egan's books, despite very lukewarm experiences like his more recent Zendegi.
The extrapolation of these ideas is solid and well meshed with the unique and intriguing plot.Egan is at the top of his form here, banging out compelling world building characterizations in a couple of pages as he introduces side characters to build the number of perspectives for the unfolding of his vision.My one caveat is that it might take a certain level of a certain kind of intelligence to understand the central conceit of the novel.
отличная книга.единственный недостаток (да и тот с большой натяжкой) — это спорная, на мой взгляд, степень визуализированности цифрового пространства, от которого слегка веет чувством, что относительно скоро после выхода этой книги выйдет и «Матрица».
но даже эта мелкая придирка теряет смысл в последней четверти повествования.в остальном всё блестяще и поразительно современно.
действие развивается экспоненциально — чем ближе к развязке, тем чаще меняется тема произведения.и особенно круто, что концовке удаётся остаться очень человечной — хотя, казалось бы, все эти вопросы книга уже сто раз прожевала.
а всё равно — по эмоциям тоже бьёт.не только уму даёт, но и сердцу.в общем, отличная книга.
Egan esplora la cosmologia, sonda la creazione dell'universo e le sue implicazioni filosofiche.
Sonda le origini dell'universo, esplora la chimica degli elementi, la matematica applicata a tutto ciò che ci circonda.
L'informatica, la scienza cardine di questo romanzo visionario, elemento fondamentale per ogni racconto cyberpunk, viene utilizzata da Egan, in un modo che mai avevo letto.
Autore incredibile Egan, è riuscito a creare una storia dall'immensa fantasia, inesauribile direi, ma con implicazioni sociali, filosofiche, ambientali, così tangibili.Non un libro semplice da leggere, anzi direi a tratti molto complesso, per argomentazioni e scrittura.
(If you ever want to cause an aneurysm in a hard sci-fi fan, ask them for their opinion on Star Wars.) But that said, hard sci-fi is generally not really my cup of tea -- in fact, I doubt I would've ever read this unless it had been recommended by a new friend of mine in Chicago, fellow hard sci-fi author Jeremy John -- and as a result I found Permutation City to be only a bit above mediocre, with a central premise revolving around quantum mechanics and multidimensional consciousness that might as well have been freaking Hogwarts, as little as I could keep up with the high-level real science being bandied about.
Egan evaluates the challenges that would arise if you were able to copy yourself, personality, memories, and all, into a virtual world in a computer, and how that copy would interact with your original meat version, how the copy would adapt to the limits of its new environment, and what the legal and moral obligations would be in interacting with such copies.
This is probably not my first choice for books about mind uploading, but it's a pretty interesting take and worth the read for anyone interested in the subject.
Sci fi story about creation and immortality and computer virtual reality. Don't want to give away too much but gives a plausible vision to the idea of immortality through being uploaded and questions the boundaries between the virtually created and their creators. Very deep story touch on many philosophical themes. Definitely very good sci fi.
Im not the biggest hard scifi fan but thought I'd give this a go. I have loved most of Egans short stories. However this was too much Science for me and not enough plot. Some parts just dragged a little too much for me.
Il rapporto tra i numeri?Tutto questo messo insieme?Esattamente dieci anni dopo Neuromante e cinque anni prima di Matrix, si impone questo ricco e visionario romanzo, con una rilettura della realtà virtuale forse troppo complessa, ma che davvero è capace di aprire la mente.Scenari cyber degni di Gibson e soci, scenografie e paesaggi mastodontici che ricordano un po' Ian M.
In realtà una tale presentazione sarebbe fuorviante, perché l'essenza di questo romanzo va ben oltre la mera summa di cui sopra.Forse troppo complesso, troppo matematico, soprattutto: è questo il principale elemento che mi ha reso la lettura piuttosto difficile e discontinua.
The ideas Egan shows are so big, so compelling that you cannot help but try and put yourself on the shoes of some of the characters.
Questions like if before dying, I get scanned and turned into a sentient AI with all my memories and experiences, a “copy”, does the copy is really me?
Also, how long can someone change himself until his identity is lost?These questions and the ideas the book showed were what made the book so good, but, with that being said, it was a very dry and humorless read.
What do you mean that's just pocket lint?
In my pocket lint universe I am an immortal god!
What do you mean pocket lint immortal god Me has nothing to do with the Me that you've known for the last three hundred pages?
Sometimes we say the same things!The premise of this book made no sense.
There are plenty of books worth reading that make no sense - everything I've read by Murakami for example.
But this is a Greg Egan book, so the real point of it is the idea, which as I may have mentioned, makes no sense.
Both of these books are very pure instances of conceptual science fiction; the philosophical and scientific ideas are the meat of the book, not just convenient setup for the plot.Permutation City is actually a lot "purer" than Distress in this sense -- pure to the point that I had a hard time maintaining interest.
Bueno, conozco muchos que no escriben novela que lo hacen pero en novela conozco pocos.Lo que menos me gusta es que en ciertos momentos necesita mover las consciencias de realidad a máquinas y lo hace y se queda tan agusto.
También gasta un universo paralelo donde se disuelven las consciencias de los muertos y éstas se pueden volver a juntar, una especie de nirvana, almas, magufadas...
No está mal, pero cuando me atiborras la novela de datos y me gastas la broma del nirvana me pongo a pensar en anuncios de pestañas millonizadas.Un problema de este autor es que no sabe huir de las explicaciones de lo que desconoce.
Y los dilemas existenciales; las Copias viven en un bucle monótono, y la idea del tiempo subjetivo e infinito (inmortalidad), no parece ser algo a lo que en realidad todas las personas aspiren; vivir eternamente, requiere de mucho mundo interior, de la búsqueda de actividades e intereses que te mantengan "vivo" y, además, puede ser muy difícil vivir para siempre si tus fantasmas del pasado pesan mucho.
El concepto de Ciudad Permutación, que aparece hacia el último tercio, aunque puede ser apasionante intelectualmente, no fue mi parte preferida del libro.
Egan writes sci-fi, heavy on the sci. It’s what sci-fi was meant to be: a tale that takes a scientific idea and leads the imagination, wide-eyed, past the event horizon. The protagonists of Permutation City are software humans, scanned from fleshly originals, virtually immortal, and fated to craft a purpose for themselves in a world of infinite flexibility. Those who revel in the vertigo of Egan’s world may want to move on to  Diaspora next.
This book has all the stuff I was thinking about in the early 1990s -- artificial life, genetic algorithms, cellular automata, philosophy of consciousness, virtual reality, neurochemistry, brain simulation -- all woven together into a premise that is absurd but with enough actual computer science (and inside jokes) to make it mind-blowingly plausible. Not a lot of action, but fun -- if you can follow the details.
Fantastic book, very well written, with great characters and full of fabulous ideas. But what's really incredible is that this is an almost 20 years old near future hard SF novel that doesn't feel outdated at all.
Second time through after forgetting I'd read it before.Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #272.
Dull metaphysical nonsense. Also, 70% could have been axed.
Imagina que antes de morirte te escanean todo el cuerpo a nivel molecular copiando hasta la última neurona y luego esa copia la vuelcan en un programa informático de realidad virtual en el que cobras vida de forma inteligente, dándole un continuo a tu "yo" pero sin ser de carne y hueso.
A mi me encantaría ser una copia!Un libro que si lo situamos en el universo Egan da una explicación al origen de las "Polis" de "Diáspora" aunque Ciudad Permutación no pueda ser polis al no poder relacionarse de forma bidireccional con el mundo terrestre.Una lectura compleja pero que engancha, si lo lees sin darle mil vueltas a las teorias que a veces cuenta se disfruta y mucho.
This one came up when Schwern and I were poking around the Wikipedia articles about Conway's Game of Life, and I was like, "You know what, it's been way too long since I just said 'fuck everything' and downed a whole book of potentially dubious quality in a single slurp.
All in all, I don't think the book covered its hard SF debts well enough to earn a pass on character and prose.Also, while Egan made some interesting steps in considering how consciousness changes when it can self-modify beyond the tolerances of electric meat, I don't think he really took it far enough.
I listened to the audiobook, and for a few weeks, my daily travels were inundated with the joy and excitement of contemplating the structure of existence, instead of permeated with the weight and ache of taking one's arbitrary human desires too seriously.
Its entire existence is contained in it from the beginning, but most of it is only latent until time unfolds, or another dimension is added.
So that got locked up with my previous thoughts, and I have nothing insightful to say about them except that it's rather exciting to contemplate.
Y hacerlo ha conseguido que (1) lea muy despacio (2) haya pensado mucho más de lo que he leído (3) me haya quedado exhausto al terminarlo.No sé si es una obra de ciencia ficción, de filosofía tecnológica, un tratado ontológico o...Tampoco sé si Greg Egan es un buen escritor y Ciudad Permutación una obra de arte, o es solo una ida de olla con tintes de realidad que consigue transportarte a su perturbado sueño.Solo sé que Ciudad Permutación es un libro de ciencia ficción dura, muy dura, que mezcla conceptos de informática avanzada con filosofía y preguntas tan existenciales como de dónde venimos, por qué estamos aquí y hacia dónde vamos.¿Te atreves con un libro así?
si es que un niño es capaz de comprender algo de lo que hay entre las tapas de Ciudad Permutación.
