https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8791.LSD
It is not what certain types of human have been known to refer to as "trippy," despite containing what are known as "trip reports." Hofmann is a fairly dry writer, and assumes that the reader is as interested as he is in accounts of the chemistry of LSD and other psychiatric drugs.
But at the heart of the book is an accurate and serious account of a fascinating molecule and a plea for its reasonable and sensible use in therapeutic contexts.
This book was written some time ago, but it is only now that the potential of psychedelic drugs in therapeutic contexts has come to the attention of largely white Euro-or-Anglo-oriented therapists.
Marvellous! I shall always carry the picture of this very Bourgeois Swiss chemist cycling home with a head full of LSD and muttering about a further synthesis, while the Aztec gods played with his head.

This book gives tremendous insight into Albert Hoffmann's life and research.
Hoffmann is the scientist who, in 1938, first isolated the compound LSD-25 from ergot.
At the time, Hoffmann had no idea that this compound had what we've come to know as psychedelic properties.
Hoffmann, who died in 2008 at the age of 102, tells us how his research began, how it progessed, and what, ultimately, went wrong.
Some of the early researchers (including Hoffmann) took the LSD and detailed their "trips" in journals.
However, Hoffmann didn't stray far from his own personal research and experiences.
Эта книга позволит читателю сложить своё мнение на счёт того, хорош ли или плох факт существования такого уникального вещества, но в любом случае нельзя игнорировать ложь средств массовой (дез)информации в отношении психоделических веществ и, в первую очередь, ЛСД.Книга написана хорошим языком, описание происхождения ЛСД-25 описано легко и не требует каких-либо серьёзных научных познаний.
Большую ценность представляют письма и сообщения об опыте, полученном после принятия ЛСД, от видных учёных времени "психоделической революции", от людей бывшими первыми, кто испытывал на себе действие ЛСД.Обязательная к прочтению книга для тех, кто интересуется историей средств и методов для изменения сознания.
Interesting from a historical and chemical perspective. I never knew so many psychedelic drugs were chemically related. Unfortunately descends into mysticism. I think it ultimately doesn't contribute anything new to the dialogue on psychedelics or drugs in general. (I realize the book was written in 1980, but Hofmann says nothing so revolutionary that I can't imagine it wasn't thought of by then.) The most interesting part of this book is the reminder that psychedelics were seen as potentially a legitimate aid to psychiatric investigation until the 1960s counterculture movement. But this opinion is resurging today too.
An impressive, first hand account about lsd25, or simply lsd, and its birth by hofmann himself. Apart from its history there are nomerous accounts about its use by regular and famous people, who shared their views with hofmann. Some interesting quests about magic mushrooms. The end of the book is kind of boring (som letters exchanged with famous people about lsd), but 90% of the book is worth of the five stars.
For those who understand biology and chemistry I'm sure this book will be even more enjoyable.I wanted to read this to see if Albert Hofmann really thought of LSD as a "problem child," but the more I read the more I understood, and agreed, that it is far from it.
It is an extremely beneficial drug that has only become a problem because people do not educate themselves before using it.
My favorite part of the book was reading what Albert and the other people who took LSD, along with other other hallucinogens, wrote after their experiences.
When I first found out that Hofmann, the creator of LSD, had written a book about it, I thought he w
Who would have thought that this chemist is such a prolific writer. This book is a joy to read even from a very literary point of view. In the beginning it takes us into the heart of the process which lead to the discovery of the most defining substance behind 60's turbulences. In the second part Hofmann mentioned his view on mess that happened and notable people influenced by the powers of LSD effects. But the last chapter is a marvel; almost like a re-reading of "The Master and his Emissary", but slightly more mystical.
3/5Las sich sehr schnell und blieb interessant trotz vielen technischen Teilen zu Beginn des Buches über wie es Hofmann schaffte, LSD-25 vom natürlich vorkommenden Mutterkornalkaloid zu isolieren und zu synthetisieren.Das letzte Drittel des Buches befasst sich mehr mit Beschreibungen von Trips die andere Leute hatten, war somit relativ langweilig zu lesen und hatte nicht mehr viel mit dem eigentlichen Thema des Buches zu tun."Das LSD hat mich gerufen, ich habe es nicht gesucht. Es ist zu mir gekommen, es hat sich gemeldet."
A considered and nuanced collection of Dr Hoffman's thoughts and experiences with LSD. Appx 1/3 is devoted to history/discovery, 1/3 to sacred plants and spiritual insight, and 1/3 to the intellectual relationships developed around LSD experiences. Wonderful book.
It is so interesting to read the thoughts of the creator of LSD on its discovery, uses in therapy (his "wonder child) and its misuse by the counterculture of the 60's and 70's (his "problem child"). This book is filled with experiences, related issues and inspiring thoughts; I learned a lot!
Los efectos y consecuencias que el LSD25 legó al mundo son motivo de debate entre la comunidad científica, los organismos de salud pública, los estados nacionales, las comunidades religiosas y artísticas, psiconautas y chamanes: las posiciones se extrapolan desde los que piensan que es una “droga” que daña la mente y el cuerpo, hasta los que ven aquí la partícula de Dios enviada a la humanidad para la comprensión del universo interno/externo, y de la vida y la muerte.El libro consta de 15 capítulos narrados en primera persona de forma científica y anecdótica.
Esimene inimene, kes sünteesis LSD ja seda ka enda peal katsetas, on kirjutanud sellest raamatu.
Ta kirjeldab LSD saamislugu (võib leida selgitusi ka keemiavaldkonnast), selle levikut ja populaarsuse tõusu ning juhtumeid, mis on leidnud kajastust ka meedias.
Ta toob välja oma isikliku arvamuse LSDst ja sellest, mis eesmärkidel seda võiks ja peaks kasutama.
On igati positiivne, et LSD avastaja ise ei suhtu oma "leiutisse" ainuüksi vaimustusega, vaid toob välja ka mõned objektiivselt negatiivsed potentsiaalsed tagajärjed ja juhtumid, mis aine tarvitamisega võivad kaasneda.
Tegemist on väga huvitava lugemisega, mis tutvustab niivõrd erinevaid teemaga seotud aspekte, et tekib huvi nii mõndagi mainitust edasi uurida.
Amazing book. Very detailed in chemical and cultural uses of hallucinogens, with a most thoughtful and personal take on the spiritual and metaphysical properties of the sacred drugs (LSD, Peyote, Mushrooms, and Morning Glory). The conclusion really draws on the spiritual benefits of hallucinogens, of course with careful considerations of tragic events related to its misuse, and how a different reality rises to the surface with the aid of such drugs, as well as with other experiences such as meditation.
It was enlightening, to say the least, to read a work of Hofmann's. It is written in a similar style to Aldous Huxley's Doors of Perception. Although a bit dry at times, it has loads of information for the reader to discover.
amazing! a wise man, a very clear vision of what needs to change in our society, outstanding.

Hoping this would be limited to introductions by other people rather than Hoffman himself I continued and was happy to find him marvelously explaining the chemical research that led to his accidental discovery of LSD.
However, the book then descends – by steps punctuated with more account of his actual chemical research – into accounts of people experimenting with LSD, mushrooms and other hallucinogens.
Perhaps this is the part that some, interested in LSD experience, might enjoy, but I was annoyed at the lack of explanations as to the actual effects of these substances in the chemistry of the brain.
Alfred Hofmann o LSD rozpráva ako o svojom problémovom dieťati, pretože pri vzniku tejto látky ani len netušil, že táto droga bude stáť za zrodom nejakých kultúr.
Jeho prvotné plány boli, aby sa LSD stalo medikamentom nápomocným pri liečení duševných ochorení, čo, ako sa ukázalo časom, malo často presne opačný efekt.
Mnohí ľudia začali užívať LSD rekreačne, pre zábavu a holý zážitok.
Alfred Hofmann neobhajuje LSD ako "liek na rakovinu" či stroj času, rozpráva o svojich skúsenostiach, zámeroch, histórii a pôvode.
Náhode ktorá stála na počiatku a vážnych nehodách ktoré sa neskôr v spojení s LSD začali stávať.


Sách kể lại quá trình Albert chiết xuất ra LSD, vô tình sử dụng nó, đồng hành nhìn nó phát triển, và cả những rắc rối mà nó mang lại.Mình xin không review quá kĩ, đề tài này rất nhạy cảm, nói chung ai có "hứng thú" nên đọc.
Sách rất hay và nhiều thông tin bổ ích, từ kiến thức hoá học, khoa học, tới tâm lý, nhận thức..., không chỉ xoay quanh LSD mà còn nhiều loại chất thức thần khác như magic mushroom- vốn được cái bộ tộc Nam Mỹ, đặc biệt là người Aztec sử dụng trong các nghi lễ tôn giáo từ hàng ngàn năm nay...
As I get to review this book I recall so many times in which Hoffman's observations have been signif
It's a very nice read about the discovery of LSD and extracting psilocybin from mushrooms, thanks to Dr Hofmann. The book has a lot of interesting experiences, objective discussions and correspondences of influential people like Aldous Huxley with Hofmann. This book can be skimmed through since there are many information which I thought was not interesting to me.
LSD:n kehittäjä on kirjassa vahvimmillaan, kun kirjoittaa tieteellisestä työstään torajyvän parissa ja kokeiluistaan LSD:llä. Kuvaus on suorastaan luonnontieteellisen asiallista. Myös kuvaukset kohtaamisista eri henkilöiden parissa osuvia. Maailmankatsomukselliset ja filosofiset osuudet ovat uuvuttavia, mutta niitä ei onneksi ole kirjassa paljon.
Mr.Hofmann has written a good autobiographical story about his discovery of LSD and how he set his hopes on changes it may bring to humanity. But his initial expectations faced the reality and he had to review his discovery from the different angle.
Great book detailing Hoffman's discovery of lsd and it's awesome power. The final chapter is kind of a leap but besides that it is never dull. Loved it read it more then once.
Wordy at times, but an essential text on LSD. An intelligent and thorough accounting of the discovery and early days of psychadelic development at Sandoz.
