https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1898.Into_Thin_Air
Life got you down? Then join us on a guided expedition led by Capital Idiocy Inc. as we climb to... The Summit of MOUNT EVEREST For the bargain price of $65,000,[1] we will take you on the adventure of a lifetime full of scenic views,[2] camaraderie,[3] and athleticism.[4]Worried that you lack the necessary climbing experience? Don’t be discouraged![5] While Mount Everest is the tallest mountain in the world, it is not the most technically challenging climb. And in addition to our expertise and
Don’t be discouraged![5] While Mount Everest is the tallest mountain in the world, it is not the most technically challenging climb.
We will prepare you for the high altitudes with our carefully developed Acclimatization Program.[7]Sensitive to the cold?We have you covered…with the best protective clothing available![8]When the time is right,[9] we’ll organize the final push to the summit where you will enjoy the exhilaration of being the King/Queen of the world.[10]Remember your safety and health are our top priority![11]What are you waiting for?
The author, that crazy guy, already climbed Mount Everest for you.
RELEASE THE KRAKAUER!!!!seriously, it is time to just raze everest and be done with it already.
really, i think it has reached its peak and is all downhill from here.shameless punning aside.so this started out as an article that KRAKAUER was asked to write for outside magazine about the commercialization of everest.
for fifty bucks a toe, i will chop yours right off and you can pretend you climbed everest and had a gay old time.
i still think everest is unnecessary - it is like a hot fourteen year old - who needs that kind of temptation, right?
everest: who needs it?
One of the key speakers was Simone Moro, the close friend of Anatoli Boukreev, the climber who was killed in an avalanche several years ago on Annapurna and whom Krakauer pretty much vilifies in this book as not having done enough to save the lives of those caught in the blizzard on Mount Everest in May of 1996.
For more accounts of the Everest disaster, see also Boukreev's The Climb and Beck Weather's Left for Dead.
In addition, Joe Simpson's Touching the Void is a similarly remarkable story of a climber who survives unlikely odds after breaking his leg on the side of the mountain Siula Grande in Peru.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Everest has always been a magnet for kooks, publicity seekers, hopeless romantics, and others with a shaky hold on reality.”  Welcome to one of Kelly’s creepy obsessions! (Advance apologies - this might get rambly.) Okay, so I’m totally obsessed with all things Everest and CAN. NOT. WAIT. to see the movie that details the same tragic events which are covered in this book (even though just watching the preview in IMAX 3-D made me have
(Advance apologies - this might get rambly.) Okay, so I’m totally obsessed with all things Everest and CAN.
Because seriously, while this book was fascinating in a “watching a trainwreck” type of way – it should have served as Exhibit A of why massive changes in the rules/regulations regarding Everest needs to happen.Recommended to anyone who likes to experience adventure and defy death from the safety of their reading chair.
If a person decides to climb Everest, they are likely to encounter dead bodies along the route up to the summit.2.
Lobuje, which is on the way to Everest Base Camp, is a place that overflows with human excrement.
Besides schlepping tons of your crap, they also know the way, and they place climbing ropes and in some instances, repair ladders, so people will be able to ascend the trickier places.
One camp reported having around a thousand empty canisters of supplemental oxygen (as I said below in a review comment, so I might as well stick it in here, too).4.
Utterly harrowing and propulsive. I could not put this book down. This is another book that details people's misguided quests to conquer nature--to see nature as something to be conquered. It's also another great cold-weather read, to make you realize that, really, it's not so cold out after all.
But I'm so glad that I did.It definitely reads more like a memoir, since the author was present for the events of the story.
I'm not sure how I particularly feel about being so interested in reading about a tragedy like this, but I also think it opened my eyes to SO many new things that there is definitely merit to the story.
I will definitely be recommending this book to friends and suggesting it to people who, like me, are hesitant to pick up non-fiction books that aren't memoir.
Note to self: take climbing Everest off bucket list.
15 climbers died the year Krakauer climbed.At the beginning of this review, I mentioned there was one exception to my expectations for this book based on several books I have read by this author.
Krakauer had not had much respect for another of the climbers - the guide and tour leader Anatoli Boukreev.
Sadly Boukreev, a climber par excellence, was buried under an avalanche on Annapurna the following year, in 1997, so we will never get to hear what he thought of Krakauer's defence.The book is worth reading because the Sherpas have always been sidelined in stories of climbing Everest.
What a read to start 2018! I enjoyed the majority of this, and I'll admit I fell down a bit of a black hole when it came to the controversy behind Krakauer's perspective. Review will be up tomorrow! :)
Several authors and editors I respect counseled me not to write the book as quickly as I did; they urged me to wait two or three years and put some distance between me and the expedition in order to gain some crucial perspective.
I thought that writing the book might purge Everest from my life.
But it is the way this reads, as Jon Krakauer, a client of Rob Hall’s, Adventure Consultants Guided Expedition, takes us step by brutal step up that mountain, in the spring of 1996.
I can't even imagine how Jon Krakauer was able to write this story which came out in 2007, just one year after the deadly expedition in May 1996....where nine climbers were killed on Mount Everest.
In the author's notes at the end of the book, Krakauer mentions an article he wrote for 'Outside', which angered several of the people and hurt the friends and relatives of some Everest victims.
I said in my first sentence - yeah I couldn't imagine how Jon Krakauer wrote this book, when he himself was in the midst of a traumatic experience.
I had a feeling that I would due to my personal experience hiking and climbing in the Pacific Northwest region."Why did you want to climb Mount Everest?"This question was asked of George Leigh Mallory, a Himalayan mountain climber in 1921.And his answer was,"Because it’s there."This might not make sense to someone who’s not into this sport or adventure, but to me, I get it.Why do I test myself on grueling 4500’ elevation hikes or scrambles?Well, to get to the top!To challenge myself physically, mentally and sometimes emotionally to push myself up that trail.
On an Everest expedition there are three classes of people.The guides – these are the white expert mountaineers who organise everything and guarantee client safetyThe clients – these are the rich white people who have nothing better to do.
On the day your team is going to reach the summit the guide will announce a turn round time, usually 2 pm.
This means that wherever the client is,  they must turn round and begin descending at that time, even if they haven’t reached the summit yet.
This book was well told. At times I felt oxygen deprived and often this made me unaware of tragedy. I am not a huge fan of non-fiction but this is worth a read.
Into Thin Air similarly deals with a climbing catastrophe but with the horrifying struggle consuming an entire group of climbers instead of a lone individual.Jon Krakauer, a seasoned mountaineer, joined a 1996 expedition to Everest with experienced guides who had reached the mountaintop on numerous occasions with previous groups.You would think that only the best of the best attempt Everest.
He doesn’t shy away from his own feelings of guilt, and the way that what happened on the upper reaches of Everest has impacted his life.Into Thin Air is a gripping, terrifying and informative story that taught me more about mountaineering and its risks than any other book I’ve read.
Jon Krakauer standing on the summit of Mt. Everest."Straddling the top of the world, one foot in China and the other in Nepal, I cleared the ice out of my oxygen mask, hunched a shoulder against the wind, and stared down into the vastness of Tibet".You have heard the saying, "truth is stranger than fiction".
It is told by Jon Krakauer, a journalist and accomplished mountaineer in his own right.
The fact is, Mt. Everest is a deadly place, especially in the upper region known as the death zone, where the air is thin and brutally cold, made worse by the force of the jet stream winds.
When I picked up this book, I thought it was going to be Jon merely researching and giving account of what happened on a Mount Everest hike as a journalist, not as someone who climbed the mountain.
Reason number #93824 why I could never be a journalist--it requires such menial tasks as, oh i don't know, CLIMBING MOUNT EVEREST??!?!?!?!
Because it was centered on what went wrong with the tragedy though, I think Jon's personal experience took a backseat to fleshing out the lives of everyone he climbed with, which ultimately weighed this book down for me.
The fact that these people spend upwards of $65,000 to subject themselves to hypoxia, frostbite, and possible cerebral edemas just makes me shake my head and say 'what the fuck?'Krakauer states in the first chapter that once reaching the summit, a sheet of ice at 29,028 feet above seal level, he couldn't summon the energy to care.
I quickly came to understand that climbing Everest was primarily about enduring pain."The fact that the drive to reach the summit had climbers walking over corpses of their peers also is mind-numbing.
***NO SPOILERS*** May 10, 1996 was a very, very bad day to be climbing to “the roof of the world.” On that day, journalist and avid mountain climber Jon Krakauer reached the summit of Mt. Everest with a group as part of a guided expedition.
There’s a lot that’s covered, and Krakauer’s a very well-organized writer who didn’t skimp on the details necessary to bring to life the reality of high-altitude climbing.
Critics who have dubbed Krakauer “cowardly” and “selfish”...well, one can only wonder whether they read the same book.On the surface, Into Thin Air is a story about mountain climbing and tragedy, but deeper down it’s an emotional survival story.
I now know that there is no sportsmanship or athleticism or fitness about these trips to the top of Everest.
Even more, what kind of an achievement it is, if everything is done for you - Sherpas build your camps, make your food, carry your baggage (including laptops, TVs, gourmet foods, and magazines), fix ropes for you to hang on, even haul you to the top if needed?But enough of ranting, time to talk about the book itself.
Overall, a very interesting and in many ways eye-opening story, which in spite of being beyond my scope of interest, managed to hold my attention.
This is probably the best climbing book I have read despite the controversy surrounding some aspects.
I was with the author on the mountain and felt the terrible pain of the losses they endured, the guilt of the survivors and the many "what ifs" after the event.The author relays his personal experiences climbing Everest in 1996 with a number of groups.
He also documents a lot of the history of other climbs and delves into the personalities and characters of some of the great climbers.
Reading books like this, one might suppose that most climbers do it for the beauty of the scenery or the thrill of the surroundings.
I'm just going to come out and say it: I just don't get it.Even after reading this book, I just cannot understand why anybody would want to climb Everest.
From Jon Krakauer's descriptions in this book, it actually sounds like a bit of a shithole (or the opposite of a hole, I suppose).Krakauer lists several different, contradictory statistics on how likely you are to die climbing Everest, but they were all far too high in my opinion, especially for something that's essentially a pointless exercise.
I knew the basics: a)	It’s the tallest mountain in the word and;b)	It’s really difficult to climb.Just how difficult?
Oh, and don’t forget altitude sickness, falling rocks and boulders as well as blocks of ice the size of large buildings that have been known to detach and fall without warning.Jon Krakauer gives a stunning account of his attempt at conquering the mighty monster in 1996 with a slew of others.
In fact, some of those who survived did so with extraordinary feats of strength coupled with an undying will to make it off of that mountain.I’m not going to go into a lot of detail here; I feel I would ruin it if I don’t let Krakauer have his go at telling the full story to you.
I have put a quote by a famous mountaineer at the end of this review which partially explains that enigmaThe author, who is a climber, was a member of the 1996 team, headed by an expert who had attained the summit of Everest several times and was considered one of the best guides available.
Everest has attracted its share of men like this.......three things they all had in common: faith in themselves, great determination, and endurance.
Sure it's a testament to the human spirit to overcome obstacles, and being able to do this is something I know I would never be able to do (or want to do), and it's pretty amazing that people can do what it takes to climb these high mountains, but it's also really dangerous and people die doing things like this all the time (historically up until 1996, 3% of all people who climbed just above base camp on Everest died, that's not even necessarily the people who made it all the way up to the final reaches near the summit where the events of this book took place).
Krakauer is not shy about offering up criticism of expedition leaders and some fellow climbers, and he discusses his own feelings of guilt as to one guide who died on the mountain.
Krakauer's book angered a few other participants from his climb; however, their criticisms go to peripheral matters (did guide Anatoli Boudreev behave responsibly in descending before his clients?
Moreover, the number of deaths on Everest suggests that there are plenty of people climbing the mountain who have no business being there in the first place.
High altitude mountain climbing is not for the faint of heart yet it is easy to understand how people can be seduced by the idea of conquering a big feat like this.
“Everest has always been a magnet for kooks, publicity seekers, hopeless romantics, and others with a shaky hold on reality.” Jon Krakauer was offered an opportunity to join an Everest climb so he could write a magazine article.
Krakauer is a very good writer and he conveys the magnitude of the operation, the challenge, the personalities, and the journey quite well.
Nonetheless, it is the true story of a harrowing climb that few ever attempt.
This book was insane. No way in hell. These people are nuts.
A second source of interference that I detected came from the fact that the story was comissioned by Krakauer publishers with a predetermined theme, and I suspect that they had their say in the final version of the book, especially regarding the dangers of commercial guided expeditions and amateurs promised a safe climb to the top.My reservations about the book were soon forgotten as I become immersed in the day to day grind of preparing for the crucial moments in the "death zone" - acclimatization ascents, health hazards at base camp and above, the interplay between members of the team and between different expeditions.
