https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1081270.James_Madison
But it's just so good in the way it plunges you into Madison's world!
And there are all these anecdotes peppered throughout that give the flavor of the colonial world and really humanize the people who are known to us as abstract historical figures.
So if you don't like details (which - why not?
It's A)historical B)biography, a good place for details, no?) you might not be thrilled.
I did read 40-50 pages at a time several times.
I recommend reading it in big chunks if it all possible -- just taking a couple Sunday afternoons and doing 150-200 pages.
He is considered the “Father of the US Constitution” for his role in its drafting and passage, was a primary champion and author of the Bill of Rights, was a key advisor to Presidents Washington and Jefferson, served as Jefferson’s two-term Secretary of State and was the fourth President of the United States.Ketcham’s “James Madison” is a sober, detailed, well-researched and lengthy treatment of Madison covering most aspects of his life – from his birth in 1751 at Belle Grove Plantation (more on this interesting site in a later post) until his death at Montpelier in 1836.
This one took me awhile - it's extremely detailed & well-researched. Very well done. I had no idea how much Madison contributed to the country before, during, and after his presidency. It's astounding. I'd kill to sit down to dinner with him, Washington, Adams, and Jefferson.
Ketcham fails miserably; in producing a volume of 650+ pages to tell a story that needed no more than 400.I've only read the one biography on Madison (and rest assured, it's put me well off any desire to read another), but I'm confident that Ketcham has produced the definitive work on our fourth President in terms of completeness of research and minutae of detail.
Such insignifica burden the text and the reader with another 200+ pages of clutter, which add nothing material to the story or to understanding the portrait of the man.Perhaps someday in the far off future I'll tackle another Madison biography, provided it does not exceed 400 pages.
His lifelong "republican" ideology, which viewed strong government as anathema, taxes as theft and strong military forces as a threat to democracy was fine and good during peacetime, but in the event of a war with a major power, this style of governing was almost the cause of a national catastrophe.
However, one should remember that Madison enjoyed a long and fruitful career, became known as the "Father of the Constitution" and was revered as a great man both by his contemporaries and posterity.
This is the best one-volume biography on Madison. Although it is dense and not altogether geared to a general audience, Ketcham does a fine job in his balanced view of Madison. Ketcham's writing style is crisp as he skims along each topic giving you just enough, and I did not feel too bogged down. Madison shines through the Revolutionary/Early Republic period, but his presidency was not as strong. He did his best during the War of 1812, but his leadership in war were not as skilled as Washington, Lincoln, or FDR. You do appreciate him more after reading this book.
This is where the academic Madison begins to truly shine and just as John Adams spearheaded the drive for independence, Madison (with Alexander Hamilton's help) leads the push for a strengthened national government to replace the Articles of Confederation.The second half of the book moves along nicely and Ketcham does a much better job of holding the reader's interest during Madison's years as Secretary of State under Jefferson and during his own Presidency from 1809-1817.
I believe it does much honor to the Father of the Consitution.
My favorite quote of the book is, "It seems clear he neither embraced fervently nor rejected utterly the Christian base of his education.
He accepted its tenets generally and formed his outlook on life within its worldview." Our founders may not have all embraced Christianity, but no honest research of our history cannot say that we were not positively influenced by the Christian worldview in a profound way.
Your worldview is everything and shows what you believe.
This says a lot about the history of our country!
Though he was one of the Founding Fathers, I admittedly didn't know that much about James Madison before I read this biography. The book gave a good picture of Madison's personality and his contribution to the country's birth. Its writing was rather dry, though, which is a problem for a nearly 700-page work.
this book is so good; so thorough and expertly balanced. Ketchum is able to write about all of Madison's awesome contributions, his political writing, and his shortcomings, without coming off as biased in anyway. I especially appreciated the details Ketchum gave about the federal convention.
There are a few overarching thoughts for a book of this density. First, I will freely admit portions of this book are boring, and it is about as academic a read as one could ever hope to find on a president. Madison presents a fascinating case, primarily because he has not elicited the same kind of attention that the other Founders have. There have been maybe two well-regarded books on Madison in the last 15 years. Ketcham’s effort is from the 1970s, and still resonates. On Madison the person, I
Ketcham argues that it wasn’t until his last years as President that Madison really grew satisfied that the government was fully republican (how wrong he was!).
A personal note of admiration for me came when I read Madison didn’t support the Bill of Rights…because he thought the Constitution hadn’t been framed to impede any of the rights that a Bill was meant to protect.
There is one conclusion I made reading this book: Madison was not a good President.
In the end, Madison does deserve more attention, so there’s a role for this book out there for sure.
I read “James Madison” because, even though he was the fourth US President at a crucial nexus in our history, all I knew about James Madison was that the was the “Father of the Constitution” (whatever that means), and one of the authors of the Federalist Papers.
He guided the new United States through the great world war, the one we forget about, between an England newly shorn of its rich American colonies and a France suffering through a bloody revolution that was transforming into Bonapart’s autocracy.
I came away from this book feeling that I knew Madison well enough to recognize him and respect him, without idolizing him.
When reading about Jefferson, Madison came across as mere disciple, and less as a man who deserves a high if not commanding position in the totem of early American visionaries.
Ketcham captures Madison first as a disciple of republicanism and then into his own maturity as possibly the most steadfast and consistent defender of his particular conception of republicanism.
His early career in Virginia prepared him for a more prominent national career, first as an integral thinker and signer of the Declaration of Independence, second as an ardent supporter of the federal government being formed in the late 1700's, and third through his administration as president and the War of 1812 that occurred during his tenure.This book is quite comprehensive, but only as a means to be as informative as possible about President James Madison.
His enduring friendship with Thomas Jefferson, his predecessor, and James Monroe, his successor as president, has left those of us fortunate enough to live centuries after these individuals with the ability to read the letters written to and from these individuals.
He and Monroe tend to be forgotten in middle and high school history classes, but after reading this book I have a whole new appreciation for Madison's contributions to uniting the States.My big complaint is that the book lacked a cohesive thesis.
I got the sense he was trying to connect Madison's public life to the Constitution but personally thought he could have done it better, especially as his time as Secretary of State and President.
The book is also boring at times and reads too much like a textbook for me.I would recommend this book for any fan of American History because it seems to be the definitive biography of Madison.
I agree with other reviews I've read that this is the best single-volume biography of Madison.
For that matter it is one of the best single-volume Presidential biographies that I've read.
I also whole-heartedly agree with the other reviewers who claim this book is "excellent", "great", and "dull".
After reading this book I am more interested in the lives of some of Madison's colleagues who became future Presidents, James Monroe and John Quincy Adams.
However, I believe that Ketcham delivered a rather fair review of Madison's life and accomplishments.
I plodded my way through this biography at times, as it is heavily focused on Madison's inspirations and accomplishments rather than who he was as a man.
Much of it presents an abundance of names too numerous to comprehend — his ancient historical influences, his college acquaintances and teachers, and various politicians of little significance.
However, most of the information is invaluable in presenting the amazing mind known as "The Father of the Constitution." That the book lacks a certain degree of entertainment may complement the equal shortness of personality of its muse.
But boy, could he (Madison) write!
Ketcham’s books in this vein included the acclaimed biographies of …James Madison….” Ketcham, an expert in Constitutional and political theory, writes about Madison, who is perhaps history’s foremost expert with regard to the practical application of enlightened governmental theory.
Between the author and his subject, James Madison: A Biography contains a large dose of constitutional and political theory, but I thought it was easy to swallow.
Madison carried this idea - that of providing divergent factions in a large republic an interest in government as a means to protect liberty – into the constitutional convention.
Ok, this one was a slog.
I wish I could have watched a hip hop musical of Madison instead, but there will never be a hip hop musical about Madison because he is probably the least hip hop of the Founding Fathers.
Other than having to flee D.C. and ride around (seemingly mostly unhelpfully) for a few days while the British burned his house down, his story is not one of particular action, drama or scandal.
The book instead exhaustively covers his intellectual and political work.
A lot of that was very interesting and informative, but did get pretty exhausting after a while.
Incredibly arduous to read, amazingly complete. Should you wish to understand the man arguably the greatest of the Founding Fathers, or a deeper understanding of the manner and meaning to the construction of my country's political institutions, or the political travails during our 2nd War of Independence, the War of 1812, then look no further.
This is a robust Madison biography not for the casual reader. It brings the former president to life with a great deal of material considering it is a single volume. Historians and lovers of American History should give it a try.
2.5 stars. It dragged a little in the middle.
Ketcham's Madison biography provides a thorough and engaging survey of Madison's life, the philosophical underpinnings of the U.S. Constitution, and the political maneuvering of the founders and the early republic.
Although a single volume, it delves deeply into Madison's letters and other primary documents to paint a detailed portrait of the foremost political theorist among the founders.A child of the Virginia planter class, Madison's early years help illuminate how a group of rural colonies on the edge of the known world produced such an extraordinary collection of political theorists and statesmen.
Obviously the reader learns details about the man along the way, about his life on his Virginia plantation, Montpelier; his involvement with those who mentored him ( Thomas Jefferson and George Washington) and the man he, himself, mentored (James Monroe); his association with those with whom he worked on the theoretical design for the United States (including Benjamin Franklin and John Adams) and with whom he created The Federalist Papers (Alexander Hamilton and John Jay) arguing for a nation with a strong central government instead of mere confederacy of states, loosely bound; his happy marriage to widow Dolly Payne Todd, definitely the hostess with the mostest; and his political career which included stints as state representative, Congressman, Secretary of State, and President.
This made him a permanent proponent of a strong National Republican government, which in some ways had him support strong National government, such as The Federalist Papers, and others Republican, such as his Presidency or the Virginia Resolution.
These actions lead him to be accused as switching his opinion as political opportunity presents itself.The politics (Read forming of the Constitution) at the beginning bored me, but as his presidency came to be dominated by international diplomacy the book hit its stride and I devoured the last 1/2 to 1/3 of the book.
Not my favorite of the presidential biography read so far.
This book helped me get my mind below the surface of political infighting to understand the deeper currents flowing in the first years of our nation.
That was when i understood that the occasional struggle with Ketcham's detail had given me a deeper appreciation for the conflicting political currents that drove the conflict between Federalists and Republicans.
But take the plunge if you are at all interested in Madison, why we have an electoral college, Why he opposed a national army, how he helped determine where the nations capitol would be built, and other pieces of American history you may have wondered about.
Still, since I am going through the presidents, I like seeing the focus each one had.
Madison was so focused on the long-term success of the country, and like the three presidents before him, worked tirelessly in support of that.
In this book the reader can also see the North/South relationship steadily deteriorating and the prospect of civil war becoming more of a 'when' than 'if.' This is my last founding father president and while four times going over that era is enough, each time I have been hugely impressed by the sheer effort and will people put in to ensure this country would succeed, despite incredible complexities.
It's encyclopedic in detail which is a double-edged sword. It's not written in the easiest style, and can certainly get bogged down at times. However of all the early presidents Madison's life story probably most benefits from extreme detail: his genius was based in granular policy-making and nuanced navigation of turbulent times rather than sweeping victories, simplified ideology, or charisma. He was the enlightened philosopher of the revolution, which in my opinion makes the extra effort associated with diving headlong into the weeds well worth it, and this this book worth investing your time into.
A very thorough biography of Madison's life, sometimes to it's detriment. Ketcham provides a overly comprehensive picture of his early life, which isn't particularly novel if you're familiar with his contemporaries' upbringings. That's relevant, in my mind, as this is a really academic book. This is not for a general audience. I was inclined to give it 3/5 but I've bumped it up as his analysis of the causes of the War of 1812 and the politics of the Napoleonic Wars was very clear and refreshingly concise.
Hard to rate --- clearly well researched and informative. The chapters surrounding the founding of the nation, the Constitutional convention, etc. are wonderful and exciting. After that, it can be difficult to wade through all of the pointless drama and bad decisions that bring us through the War of 1812. But, that can't be blamed on the author. So, 4 stars for it being a good bio -- but be warned, it's not always an enjoyable read.
