https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/800952.The_Complete_Woodcuts_of_Albrecht_D_rer
There's little more to say about the book itself, other than expect to see page after page of saints and sinners, heads on plates, people being beaten with sticks, strangely-shapen breasts, people being cooked in pots, Jesus doing various things, a badass griffin with a scroll, people being stabbed with swords, and a scaly monster handcuffed like a captured fugitive about to get the business from an angel with a huge, elaborate key.The only downside to this collection is that it's just woodcuts.
But if you like the style of woodcuts, Durer has a huge variety of illustrative techniques for you to admire.
A great large book with really good prints.
This is one of those books that probably would NOT look good enough on a e-reader or a tablet, for in art books it is the size and the quality of the print that counts.
So the paper here is the best medium, in my opinion.It would be ridiculous, of course, to expect my review of Durer's art - we are only talking about books here.
Yes, calm and meditative, in spite of the many terrifying things depicted by the artist, for in art it is not what is depicted that ultimately touches our soul, but how it is done.
The detail Durer could get into a block of wood is astonishing, and the woodcuts reproduced here are like those magic-eye illustrations that were popular about twenty years ago, where you stare and stare trying to make the image emerge in 3D. Death and the Maiden isn't in there, so presumably that wasn't a woodcut.
Good, but I'd have liked it better if the notes were actually WITH the woodcuts and not in a separate section, requiring a lot of page-flipping.
Thick book. Just looked at the pictures. Pre-read for CC1
Fantastic collection of Durer's woodcuts. A master of the medium
The prints themselves are obviously masterworks - it's Durer after all - but the way that Dr. Kurth has arranged the prints does well at showcasing a gradual biography of technical mastery spread across Durer's life.
By calling upon the expertise of other aficionados of the Durer woodcuts, Kurth was able to cross-reference every individual print to come to the closest approximation of when these prints were completed.
The end result is a chronological arrangement of Durer's work that shows shockingly humble beginnings.
This collection is very interesting if only because the audience gets to see just how far Durer had to come before evolving into the artist - tactician that was capable of the Apocalypse series.
Lovely.
Great book!
