https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68682.And_the_Ass_Saw_the_Angel
i also wonder what mr nick cave would think about the word "antihero" being applied to this book.
i havent read this book in at least 5 years, but i can still see every character, every building, fortress, dog, prostitute, church - everything.
if the three most important rules of door-to-door salesmanship, as we were taught in the death of bunny munro are "vagina, vagina, vagina", this book teaches us the three most important rules of messiah-dom, "crazy, crazy, crazy".
Like nearly every damn one of Cave’s songs (especially in the 80’s throughout the early 90’s) Cave wrestles themes such as GOD and LOVE and MURDER, and the results are finger-licking good.BONUS FEATURESHere's my custom-made playlist of Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds to accompany your reading of this book:"Up Jumped the Devil": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CVNkA8..."Curse of Millhaven": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DvnkTU..."God is in the House" : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xnh4ps..."Get Ready For Love": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFpamP..."Saint Huck": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Af275k..."Well of Misery": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oiSpXL..."Into My Arms": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEUgOR..."Papa Won't Leave You Henry": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AoFxUJ..."Witness Song": http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wb8NGU...

While not the worst book I've every had the displeasure of reading*, Nick Cave's work here may be the worst that I've both read and finished.  Eragon ? Gave up with extreme prejudice.  Da Vinci Code ? Accidentally left it in an airport bathroom in Denver with eleven pages left and did not care enough to visit the library to see how it ended.  The Lovely Bones ? Granted, I did finish it and it was bad, but it was a shiny, gold-plated sliver of heaven compared to And the Ass Saw the Angel, which I
? Granted, I did finish it and it was bad, but it was a shiny, gold-plated sliver of heaven compared to And the Ass Saw the Angel, which I was unfortunately compelled to finish.Ah, the joy of being in a book club.The first thing one will notice in Cave's book is that the principal narrator is dense with a lugubrious sort of prose made up in striking part by words that won't be found in any dictionary (as they are made up).
I read somewhere that Cave himself doesn't even think the book is any good.
This is the canvas on which Nick Cave (the Australian frontman of the rock band Nick Cave and The Bad Seeds) paints his allegory of spirituality, evil, corruption and redemption.A hellish Southern Gothic landscape.A grotesque protagonist living in a shack surrounded by a junkyard (more precisely, Euchrid Eucrow, a dumb kid doomed to undergo any sort of physical and psychological abuse), with a sadistic alcoholic as a mother and a bipolar psycho as a father.
Because I've always sensed this book had ALL I look for in literature and art: the Beauty of Outrage and the Outrage of Beauty - the horrible, omnipotent Beauty that flourishes where she's supposed to wither, like a flower blooming on a battlefield.
To say that I’m giving this book 5 stars based on the fact of how much I enjoyed it, would be a lie. The book had a really weak start and a pretty damn weak plot. In my one, dumb, humble opinion the books is aiight. Yes, here comes the big but…BUT! There were 2 things I fucking loved about this book. 1. The addition of a new kick ass word to my “cool as hell words” list (the word Fornicatrix, which according to a dictionary means: a woman who engages in Fornication). I fucking love that word! Wh
I was sitting on the Q11 when a couple of kids (proly like 12 or 14 years old) started laughing at the title of the book.
When they were done he passed me the book back and said, “That was funny, thank you.” Now as a fast food worker, I don’t usually get a chance to give people cool shit to read =( but this time I got away with it.
and yet you get 5 starts cuz now I have one more kick ass word added to my vocabulary and I also had the chance to teach something funny and cool to a couple of kids =)
The writing is gloriously, indulgently, and shamelessly overwrought.
It is also an incredibly grim book, but with a wicked and sometimes viciously dark sense of humor throughout (this is Nick Cave, after all).The novel's protagonist is a character named Euchrid Euchrow, a physically deformed and mentally deranged mute living in the fictional backwoods town of Ukulore.
I think I read this book cover to cover in a day, as I recall, but that was about eight years ago.
The novel is insane, grim, and overwrought.
If that sounds like your cup of tea, and you don't mind a slightly self-indulgent author, do read this.
The father comes from a seriously inbred lineage, and while he stays with his wife for years until her death, the way he deals with his daily heaping of poison is to trap animals.
Euchrid, now older and grower more insane over the years, believes this young girl and he have a connection.
Mounting insanity.As someone who has had two spoiled dogs and two worthless cats sleeping in the bed with her for the past 38 years (live ones, not remains like we find in this book), I was able to distance myself from this portion.
It has been nearly a decade since I first read this, and it was probably the first Southern Gothic that I read.
It does still hold up and is in fact in good company as one of the most gruesome in the category.
I place it next to The Devil all the Time by Donald Ray Pollock and also Child of God by Cormac McCarthy and that is among very good company indeed.
One interesting thing I noticed is that while many readers placed it in the Southern Gothic style, the majority placed it in Horror.
Overwritten, overwrought, and truly poorly edited, Nick Cave's debut novel is a grimacing, death trodden and DARKSOME tale of mental madness and religious madness and hillbilly hell and rotten mash liqueur and hobos and godsent rain curses and child rape and hooker rape and child lust and hooker lust and child killing and hooker killing.
Having loved Cave's music all my life, and especially his storytelling through lyrics, I determined to slog through this book till the bitter end in tribute to his many-faceted brilliance.
But this book smacks of having been vetted by yes-people or non-writers.
Though I love him still, I don't know that I will rush to suffer another of his novels!
Can a book start out as a 5 star read but by the end you absolutely despise it? In my experience, yes! I have no idea what I just read nor do I really want to ponder on it anymore. The Doghead section completely did me in. It’s completed, shall we move on?!
Nick Cave is truly one of a kind. This book blew my mind when I read it in my early 20's. To realize how it came to be, from a chaotic and obsessive situation in chaotic surroundings - a 20-something strung out Cave living in a loft in Berlin (as seen in the brilliant 20,000 days on earth) was a kind of surreal experience as well. I need to put this high on my tbr - a re-read is long overdue.
Review and rating to come......maybe. As soon as I figure out what happened here, and why.
I am too tired to say much about this waste of time novel. This book I paid too much for is now in the recycle bin where it can be reborn as scratchy, industrial, toilet paper. Nick Cave had to be stoned out of his mind when he wrote this sick nonsense. The publisher had to be smoking wacky weed and I am nuts for reading the majority of it. And I thought Infinite Jest was the worst book ever.
"The plot, rife with gory atrocities, is relayed through clotted, gutsy prose which ranges from poetic to rabid, and is interspersed throughout with graphs, lists, genealogies and scraps of Scripture. Although Cave's manic effort will not lure traditionalists, it may snare the more adventurous." - Publisher's WeeklyThis book was scummy, degrading, depraved, soul-draining, woeful, surreal and sinister; the prose continually drove the point of the unforgiving, despicable nature of humankind to al
Although Cave's manic effort will not lure traditionalists, it may snare the more adventurous." - Publisher's WeeklyThis book was scummy, degrading, depraved, soul-draining, woeful, surreal and sinister; the prose continually drove the point of the unforgiving, despicable nature of humankind to all manners of life in times of fear.
As a lyricist, he applied poetic tone throughout the novel and increased Euchrid's resonance of insanity as his disastrous life unfolded.
You could argue the evil and cruelty within this book has been spun out of proportion but who are we too deny how depraved humankind can be in the environment of the unknown.
For me, I just let it all wash over me and then sort of sat back and enjoyed the different snapshots of Cave’s unusual world as they came.
I think with books like this, that’s the only way to read them, although I also think this is the kind of book that you could re-read and re-read and find something new every time.As for my rating, it was a pretty solid 4/5 throughout until right at the very end, and specifically the epilogue.
It was the perfect way for the book to finish and I also didn’t call it, so it hit me like a punch in the gut.

****Spoiler Alert for the rest of the review**** She is beaten to death by the townsfolk for being a harlot and outing the evangelical women's husbands as customers.
Either I checked out while reading or Cave just decided that it wasn't worth mentioning that Cosey Mo was pregnant while being pummeled to death by her clientele.
She is supposed to be godly, despite being ripped out of the loins of a prostitute.So Euchrid develops a fascination with Beth as he did with her mother.
Then guess what, it turns out Beth was pregnant and the baby lives.
The book blows, but Cave's writing doesn't necessarily suck.
Cave is somewhere between them, but darker, dirtier, and creepier.I absolutely loved this.I wouldn't recommend it to people.
I probably wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
But it's one of those secret loves, except for all of you in GR and anyone else who asks; I guess my point is I probably won't go around talking about it because I like that not a lot of people have read it or even heard about it.
It's out-of-print, so finding a copy is like finding a rare gem.
A really dark, dirty, creepy gem.
A blood gem.
A beautifully rich and intelligent novel - the language playful and complex and colourful (though most of the colours are greys, browns and red..
lots of red), this was almost poetry at times.
There is a sub-theme concerning a young girl suspected to be a 'chosen one', there is lots of detailed description of various violent, gory, perverse happenings.
It's all pretty much what one would expect of a Nick Cave novel, if you were familiar with his song-writing.I did enjoy it - like Will Self and Douglas Coupland etc.
there is a lot of entertainment to be gleaned from the unusual, oft twisted, challenging and clever writing.
Wie van de muziek van Nick Cave houdt, moet ook wel van dit boek houden.
Niet uit onvoorwaardelijke idolatrie waarbij alles wat de man produceert goud is (integendeel, dit boek heeft veel te lang in mijn kast gelegen, uit vrees dat het zou tegenvallen) maar omdat dit eigenlijk gewoon de boekversie is van nummers als 'Tupelo' of 'Red Right Hand'.Het verhaal is macaber, donker, broeierig, geschift en met bijbelse allures.
Die bombastische schrijfstijl hoort er dan ook gewoon bij.Nipt vier sterren, want ik vond dit boek een klein tikje te lang om al die duisternis te blijven verdragen.
Maar Jezus en mijn God: dit boek was een trip om nooit te vergeten.
Fantástico e pesado. Quem ler este livro que se certifique que o melhor é lê-lo com um escudo de segurança porque o ataque à sensibilidade do autor é forte. O Nick Cave quase que não dá qualquer tipo de hipótese com este livro. Encontra-se uma escrita muito boa (mas cansativa em determinados momentos), desenrolando uma história criativa, densa e incomum. Para mim este é um livro fascinante, de culto. A arte em torno deste livro consegue assimilar tudo aquilo que de mais ridículo existe como de apaixonante e espectacular.
Irregular.No sabes si dejarlo, continuar o aplaudir a Cave.El final es tremendo.(que clase de droga se tomó Cave mientras lo escribía?)
Nick Cave's contribution to the written word20 April 2012 I have been meaning to read this book ever since I discovered Nick Cave as a musician. I also recently discovered that he is also Australian (born in Warracknabeal in Victoria) which means that there are actually some decent musicians coming out of Australia, as well as authors. Okay, I probably shouldn't knock Australian artists, but to be honest with you I have never really been a big fan of Australian music, literature, or movies. I gu
His music does tend to be quite dark and moving, and this book is no different: in fact a number of people have suggested that his music has gone into this book, but that is not really all that surprising since Nick Cave is an artist (as opposed to simply being a musician, all you need to be a musician is the ability to play music, however to be an artist requires great skill) and artists will put a lot of their own feeling and passion into their works of art.
I guess there is an idea of personal faith verses communal faith in this novel.
The prose is complex, gritty and even abrasive at times, but to judge all of the technicalities of Cave's writing as faults of the author is to ignore the possibility - and the necessity - of the main character having some hand in the often ridiculous, often confusing, often disturbing diction.
Reading this book was a frustrating, murky and at times terrible experience -- and that's coming from someone who loved it!It's not for everyone: the story is beyond dark, the setting is nightmarish, the characters are for the most part despicable and the protagonist (antihero?) is all the more pitiable because, despite his rampant insanity and horrendous brain-droolings, he is thoroughly empathetic on the most basic levels.
"And the Ass Saw the Angel" is a lurid, violent, and very, very mad book - much like the protagonist Euchrid Eucrow.
However, his muteness does not stop him from conducting a very disturbing and visceral retelling of his service to God during his short life.
Despite his clear madness and disturbing visions, I found myself on Euchrid's side as he carried out his Divine instructions.
"And the Ass Saw the Angel" is a harrowing journey into the life of a mad mute living in a religious backwater Valley.
My 2-star thoughts on this book are specific to this "new edition" Penguin recently released, which is a heavily edited version of the original book as published in mass-market paperback editions and trade editions over the years.
This new version attempts to tighten up the book by cutting out a lot of descriptive prose and focusing on the plot.
Made to pass itself as a faster, more muscular text, it loses a lot of its power for me.So if you see this version, which didn't photograph well (it has gold foil text/art over a black background), go ahead and judge it by its cover and keep looking for an older edition, like the 2.13.61 w/a sunset, or the old mass market paperback with a country scene on the cover.
This is Faulkner meets Nick Cave at the end of what should have been the American South's disappearance.
Unfortunately, the South has become more Rednecky and Crackery than ever.
This is the Nick Cave book to read, as he recently released another one, something about someone named Bunny Munroe or something, which wasn't anywhere in the same literary vein as "And the Ass saw the Angel".
"And the Ass Saw the Angel" is an intense and transformative book very worth reading.
It is the literary equivalent of Nick's music, as tremendously, beautiful, haunting, and esoterically profound.
I would have to agree with a fellow reviewer of And the Ass Saw the Angel by saying that this novel is very much what would happen if William Faulkner wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.
Nick Cave's grandiloquent debut novel plays upon the notions of madness and zealotry: their intersexions and divergences.
As the book progressed, I notived many common themes with his songs, notably 'Tupelo', 'Black Crow King', and much of his musical influences (as tributed on Kicking Against the Pricks).
If you enjoy the '80s-era Bad Seeds, the novel will feel like a culmination of sorts.
A final tribute to World War-era Southern culture in the form of a Southern Gothic novel.
Tokrat sem ostala brez besed. Izjemen prevod, takšen, da se na novo ali znova zaljubiš v materni jezik. Iskrena hvala prevajalcu, da imam kup novih najljubših besed.Knjiga je zame vsekakor zajeten zalogaj. Po eni strani jo želim nestrpno prebrati do konca, a me knjiga kar 'bremza'. Po drugi strani je pa kar nočem (še) končati.Izjemno redko naletim na takšno čtivo. Vsekakor je poslastica svoje vrste.
