https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6493208-the-immortal-life-of-henrietta-lacks
Most people don’t know that, but it’s very common,” Doe said.“OK, but why are you here now?”“Well, your appendix turned out to be very special.
So I have to get your consent if we’re going to do further studies,” Doe said.“But you already got my goo-seeping appendix.
Same thing,” Doe said.“I don’t consider someone lucking into an organ if the Chiefs win a play-off game and I have a goddamn heart attack the same thing as companies making money off tissue I had removed decades ago and didn’t know anything about,” I said.“Fortunately, the American government and legal system disagree.
The contrast between the poor Lacks family who cannot afford their medical bills and the research establishment who have made millions, maybe billions from these cells is ironic and tragic.
As an extremely wealthy American tourist once put it to me, he had earned good health care by his hard work and success in life, it was one of the perks, why waste good money on, say, a a triple-bypass on someone who hasn't even succeeded enough to afford health insurance?
All of us have benefited from the medical advances made using them and the book is recognition of what a great contribution Henrietta Lacks and her family with all their donations of tissue and blood, mostly stolen from them under false pretences, have made.
“She's the most important person in the world and her family living in poverty. If our mother is so important to science, why can't we get health insurance?” I've moved this book on and off my TBR for years. The truth is that, with few exceptions, I'm generally turned off by the thought of non-fiction. I'm a fan of fictional stories, and I think I've always felt that non-fiction will be dry, boring and difficult to get through. Especially a book about science, cells and medicine when I'm more o
It's all the interesting bits of science, full of eye-opening and shocking discoveries, but it's also about history, sociology and race.I started reading The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks while sat next to my boyfriend.
And it just shows that sometimes real life can be nastier, more shocking, and more wondrous than anything you could imagine.Maybe you've heard of HeLa in passing, maybe you don't know anything about these cells that helped in cancer research, in finding a polio vaccine, in cloning, in gene mapping and discovering the effects of an atom bomb; either way, this tells an incredible and awful story of a poor, black woman in the American South who was diagnosed with cervical cancer.
Maybe because it's not just about science and cells, but is mainly about all of the humanity and social history behind scientific discoveries.
First is the tale of HeLa cells, and the value they have been to science; second is the life of, arguably, the most important cell “donor” in history, and of her family; third is a look at the ethics of cell “donation” and the commercial and legal significance of rights involved; and fourth is the Visible Woman look at Skloot’s pursuit of the tales.
This is like presenting a how-to of her research process, a blow-by-blow description of the way research is done in the real world, and it is very enlightening.The Immortal Tale of Henrietta Lacks has received considerable acclaim.
It is thought provoking and informative in the details and heartbreaking in the rendering of the personal story of Henrietta Lacks.
It was the sections on Henrietta and her family that I wanted to read the most.In 1950 there was “no formal research oversight in the United States.” Years later there are laws on “informed consent “ and how medical research is conducted, and protection of privacy for medical records.
The in depth research over years in writing this book is evident and I believe a heartfelt effort to recognize Henrietta Lacks for her unwitting contribution to medical research.
Fascinating and Thought-Provoking. Strengths: *Fantastically interesting subject!One woman's cancerous cells are multiplied and distributed around the globe enabling a new era of cellular research and fueling incredible advances in scientific methodology, technology, and medical treatments. This strain of cells, named HeLa (after Henrietta Lacks their originator), has been amazingly prolific and has become integrated into advancements of science around the world (space travel, genome research, p
I thought the author got in the way and would have preferred to have to read less of her journey and more coverage of the science involved and its ethical implications.
This book won't join my 'to re-read' shelf...but has whetted my appetite for further exploration of this important woman, fascinating topic and intriguing ethical questions.I was left wanting more:-more detail surrounding the science involved, -more coverage of past and present ethical implications-a more refined biography of Henrietta, and -a more focused look at the impact and implications of the HeLa cell strain line on Henrietta's descendants.
First, the background of cell and tissue research in the last 100 years is intriguing and to hear about all of the advances and why Henretta Lacks was key to them is fascinating.
Second, the background of not only the Lacks family, but also others who have had their tissues/cells used for research without permission, gives a lot of food for thought.
As I had surgery earlier this year that involved some tissue being removed for analysis, it started to make me wonder what I signed on all those forms and if my cells might still be out there being used for research.The only part of the book that kind of dragged for me was the time that the author spent with the family late in the book.
And of course, at the end of the lesson, everyone wants to know what really happened, how things turned out "in real life." On those rare occasions when we actually do know something of the outcome, it is clear that knowing what "really" happened almost never makes the decision easier, clearer, or less agonizing.
Such was the case with the cells of cervical cancer taken from Henrietta Lacks at Johns Hopkins University hospital.
Perhaps we, too, like the doctors and scientists who have long studied HeLa, can learn from the case study of Henrietta Lacks.
The fact that the HeLa cell line is the foundation of so much valuable research is rightfully a source of pride for the family of Henrietta Lacks.
That horse left the barn a long, long time ago.Furthermore, I don't feel the admiration for the author of this book like I think many others do.
At times I felt like she badgered them worse than the unethical people who had come before.The sadness of this story is really about the devastation of a family when its unifying force, a strong mother, is removed.
Henrietta Lacks' story is finally told--and Skloot makes very clear how important Lacks' cells have been to the last 60 years of science and, paradoxically, how much Henrietta and her family suffered because those cells were taken from Henrietta without her consent.
Again, this is disturbing in a book that concerns the importance of dignity, consent, etc.Finally, Skloot inserts herself into the story over and over, not so subtly suggesting that she is a hero for telling Henrietta's story.
Sometimes, it appears that she is making the very offensive suggestion that she, a highly educated unreligious white woman, has healed the Lacks family by showing them science and history.
One scientist estimates that if you could pile all HeLa cells ever grown on a scale, they'd weigh more than 50 million metric tons--an inconceivable number, given that an individual cell weighs almost nothing....Her cells were part of research into the genes that cause cancer and those that suppress it; they helped develop drugs for treating herpes, leukemia, influenza, hemophilia, and Parkinson's disease; and they've been used to study lactose digestion, sexually transmitted diseases, appendicitis, human longevity, mosquito mating, and the negative cellular effects of working in sewers....Like guinea pigs and mice, Henrietta's cells have become the standard laboratory workhorse.(The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, pp.
Remember to SHOW YOUR WORK.2) Compare the Body of Christ to the Body of Henrietta Lacks.
An estimated 50 million metric tons of her cells were reproduced; thousands of careers have been build, and initiated more than 60 000 scientific studies until now, but Henrietta Lacks never gave permission for that research, nor had her family.In The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, Rebecca Skloot gracefully tells the story of the real woman and her descendants; the history of race-related medical research, including the role of eugenics; the struggles of the Lacks family with poverty, politics and racial issues; the phenomenal development of science based on the HeLa cells, in a language that can be understood by everyone.
Stories of voodoo, charismatic religious experiences, dire poverty, lack of basic education (one of Henrietta's brothers was more fortunate in that he had 4 years' schooling in total) untreated health problems and the prevailing 1950's attitudes of never questioning the doctor, all fed into the mix resulting in ignorance and occasional hysteria.Much of the first part of this book includes descriptions of scientific research and discoveries; both the theory and practise of how genes were isolated.
But what happens when her biological material generates billions of dollars for the drug and pharmaceutical industry, leaving her dirt poor descendants in the lurch?Yeah, I know I wrote that like the teaser for one of my mysteries but the only mystery here is how people who have profited from the diseased cells that killed a woman can sleep at night while her kids and grand kids don't have two nickels to rub together.The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks is really two stories.
Her story is a heartbreaking one, but also an important one as her cancer cells, forever to be known as HeLa taken without her consent or knowledge, saved thousands of lives.Through ten long years of investigative work by this author, this narrative explores the experimental, racial and ethical issues of HeLa (the cells that would not die), while intertwining the story of her children's lives and the utter shock of finding out about their mother's cells more than twenty years later."Physician Seeks Volunteers For Cancer Research." Yeah, right........So many parts of this book made me sick to my stomach.....like the uncaring treatment of animals and all the poor souls injected with cancer cells without their knowledge in the name of research and greed; and oh, dam Ethel for the inhumane and brutal abuse to Henrietta's children too.
Be it a biography that placed a story behind the woman, a detailed discussion of how the HeLa cell came into being and how its presence is all over the medical world, or that medical advancements as we know them will allow Henrietta Lacks' being to live on for eternity, the reader can reflect on which rationale best suits them.
Skloot brought Henrietta Lacks to life and if that puts a face to those HeLa cells, perhaps all those who read this book will think twice about those medicines used in their bodies and the scientific breakthroughs that are attributed to many powerful companies and/or nations.
Mix in interests in social justice, bioethics, the history of science, and mysteries, and you’ve got me primed for some outsized adoration of Rebecca Skloot’s The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, because its three main narratives are: 1) The history of tissue culture, particularly the contribution of the “immortal,” fabulously prolific HeLa cells that revolutionized medical research.2) The life, disease and death of Henrietta Lacks, the woman whose cervical cancer cells gave rise to the HeLa cell line.3) The story of Henrietta Lacks’s impoverished family, particularly her daughter Deborah, belatedly discovering and coping with their mother’s cellular legacy.Intertwined with all three is the concept of informed consent in scientific research, and who owns those bits of us and our genetic information that are floating around the research world.
This is such an important story. HeLa cells were a miracle to humanity and all thanks to Hernietta Lacks and the doctor.It is a must-read.
I do believe this book must have scored near the top of all books used in college courses these last 5-6 years - from English to history and social sciences, but I wonder how much traction it got in medical school and across the healthcare and medical research fields.
It quickly became a "classic" because so many issues are covered: race, class, gender, genetics, property rights, and about the social ends of science and our technological choices.
As well, it's a story of how some people are used by institutions for other ends, whether admirably or not, and how unjust and unfair it was to Henrietta to have her cancer cells taken without her permission.
The book alternates between Henrietta Lacks' personal history, that of her family, a little of medical history and Skoot's actual pursuit of the story, which helps develop the story in historical context.
While I understand she is the touchstone for the story, that she is partly telling the story of the mother through the daughter, much of Henrietta and the science is sidelined.Interesting questions popped up while reading; namely, why does everyone equate Henrietta's cancer cells with her person?
It is not "them." Biologically speaking, I'm not sure the book answered the question of whether of not the HeLa cells actually were genetically identical to Henrietta, or if they were mutated--altered DNA.
And yet, some of the things done right her in our own nation were reminiscent of the research being conducted under the direction of the notorious Dr. Mengele.Reading certain parts of this book, I found myself holding my breath in horror at some of the ideas conjured by medical practioners in the name of “research.” Of course, we know.* Anyone who is even moderately informed on this nation's medical history knows about the Tuskegee trials, MK Ultra, flu and hepatitis research on the disabled and incarcerated, radiation exposure experiments on hospital patients, and cancer, cancer, cancer.
Henrietta's story is bigger than medical research, and cures for polio, and the human genome, and Nuremberg.
A key part of this story is that Henrietta did not know her tissue had been taken, and doctors did not tell her family.Scientists had been trying to keep human cells alive in culture for decades, but they all eventually died.
If the cells died in the process, it didn't matter -- scientists could just go back to their eternally growing HeLa stock and start over again.Unfortunately, the Lacks family did not know about any of this until several decades after Henrietta had died, and some relatives became very upset and felt betrayed by the doctors at Hopkins.
This book's been out for a while, so I'm just going to put down a bunch of thoughts rattling around in my head, and probably leave it at that:-legacy left by slavery and how it affected Henrietta Lacks and the members of her family, and African Americans in general (where they lived, what kind of employment was available to them, the quality of education available to them, the history of abuse and violence, and the impact on their mental health, and the quality and availability of healthcare)-the assumptions and treatment by the medical establishment, at the time, of their patients and patients' rights-the lack of laws, or their lack of clarity, around a patient's consent, and the ownership of a patient's waste products from medical procedures.
April 22nd will be a film on HBO !!!
So, I always end up giving those away to the poor junk man so as to have something to load in his pushcart.It may not be the best analogy to introduce a very compelling book like this.
However, just like me and the car junks, I would imagine that you don't want to bring home with you some test tubes filled with your excess coagulated blood, liquified Chlorox-smelling semen, miniscule torn ligaments or decayed tooth.
Henrietta Lacks, a poor black Tobacco farmer, died of cervical cancer in 1951.
Henrietta's cells propagate like wild fire and they are still alive up to now.
While I applaud Skloot's attempt to present a fair look at the history of the HeLa cell line used in research labs all over the world, the book is clearly skewed toward sympathy for the family.
Perhaps a little more objectivity and less family bonding would have made this a better book.In conclusion: though Skloot claims she tries to give an unbiased view of the history of HeLa cells and the family from whence it came, I am concerned that lay people who read this will not understand some of the finer points and it will increase the already rampant fear of science that pervades American culture.
It's a sad thought.The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks offers historical insight into human rights issues within the medical field.
Factors related to race, poverty, education, medical issues, disabilities, and access to healthcare are definitely warranted in a book like this to show the overall contrast between those benefiting from Ms. Lacks' contribution and the family that was left behind, along with the insensitivity and injustice of it all.
If you'd like to gain some insight into the history of medical/science research along with a look at human/civil rights issues throughout the decades, check out The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks!My favorite quote:"You don't mess with Henrietta — she'll sic HeLa on your ass!"
She went on to establish a trust for the family.This book discusses science, both the present state of medicine while Henrietta was being treated for cervical cancer (nothing short of radium tube inserts and lead!) and how science has grown in its understandings and treatments because of her cells.
Ha. I read this during Banned Books Week 2015 because earlier this year it was challenged by a Tennessee mother who felt it was "pornographic." The woman had cervical cancer, cancer of the CERVIX, a body part all women have.
It is not surprising that poor black people in the USA remain poor over time, it is not surprising that difficult childhood experiences can overshadow later adult lives, it is even not surprising that something if not entirely free to obtain like the tissue sample in question, has come to be a source of profit for many companies while providing no benefit to either the donor’s family nor the institution which provided Henrietta Lacks with medical treatment and collected the sample in the first place.
Perhaps part of the success of Skloot's narration is just how unsurprising those elements of the story are juxtaposed with the completely unexpected survival and continuing life of Henrietta Lacks' tissue sample.
I was completely in the thrall of author Rebecca Skloot while listening to the audio of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/08/sci...)At first I found the structure of the book a little frustrating because it jumped in both time and storyline, but once I decided to just flow with it, I was completely engaged.
Skloot reveals early in the book that she learned about HeLa in a biology class when she was younger and decided then and there to research and write about them.
Little did she know that she would be telling the story of the Lacks family right along with the scientific importance of the cells.
