https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16377.How_Right_You_Are_Jeeves
It also leads you to believe that Jeeves will play a large role in said title, and that is not the case.
Jeeves is Bertie Wooster's manservant.
How Right You Are, Jeeves is a perfectly adequate addition to the J & W series, but it's not one of P.G. Wodehouse's best.
The plot is a tad muddier than usual, as I don't feel Bertie has any great impetus pushing him on as is the case in other books.
Even so, any Wodehouse fan can find plenty to enjoy in How Right You Are, Jeeves, such as recurring characters Aunt Dahlia, Sir Roderick Glossop, Bobbie Wickham, and the 18th century cow creamer.
In the offing, indeed!
Where the hell is Jeeves?!Jeeves is Bertie Wooster's manservant.
When Bertie is without Jeeves, he often finds himself neck-deep in the soup.
When a Jeeves & Wooster book is without Jeeves, the book often drowns in said soup.
Jeeves in the Offing is not one of P.G. Wodehouse's best.
In this story, Bertie is left to fend for himself for the most part while his manservant is off on holiday.
The plot is a tad muddier than usual, as I don't feel Bertie has any great impetus pushing him on as is the case in other books.
I am sure, somewhere PGW books are categorised under therapeutic books for stress.
Bertie is summoned by Aunt Dahlia to Brinkley while Jeeves is taking his off to judge beach side beauty pageants.
Before reaching, he also finds from the Times (the paper), that he is engaged to Roberta Wickham, his personal nightmare and lover of his childhood friend Reggie Kipper.
Step up - Bertie, Bobbie and Kipper to bring more disorder to the proceedings.
sample this "There was the sort of silence which I believe cyclones drop into for a second or two before getting down to it and starting to give the populace the works".A total Stress Buster!
What a breeze, this was a delightful read, maybe not the best of the Jeeves and Wooster books. Do you no what? It made me laugh and smile which is just the tonic needed after the debacle that was Murakamis' The Wind-up Turd Chronicle.Nearly got that guff out of my system once I've got through the letters of Mozart and a book by John Betjeman, this little trilogy of purging shall make oneself normal again
I just love P.G. Wodehouse's stories. It was a pity Jeeves wasn't really in this one but I already have 2 more of these on my TBR pile, so yay! 😃
One of those books in the Jeeves series in which young, bounding Bertie has to fend for himself, since Jeeves is off on vacation. The plot borrows several elements from previous Jeeves books, but is unputdownable all the same due to the usual comic Woosterisms, the highlight being his comic befriending of the loony doctor of old, Roderick Glossop.
It lacks the spark and fizzle of the earlier Jeeves & Wooster novels: a quality wonderful and magical which existed within their pages, and which made them some of the funniest books ever to have been written in the English language, is sadly absent here.
One will have a glorious time reading this novel and will also have the hugely pleasurable sensation of realising that there exist other novels in this series which – for all the hilarity within the pages of ‘Jeeves in the Offing’ – contain that indefinable something which makes them some of the most magical pieces of fiction ever written.
Reading a Jeeves book is always an absolute d. ;)
An enjoyable read but falling short of the perfection of earlier books. There is a distinct lack of Jeeves in this particular story. He only makes a few brief appearances and adds little to the tale which is maybe why I felt somewhat short-changed.
Yet another delight.This one needs you to have read a few of the others in this series - or at least, I think it is better if you know some of the other characters and the sorts of 'solutions' that are offered in other books to resolve the types of problems Bertie's friends are likely to find themselves in before you read this one.It is wonderful to watch Wodehouse set up situations and then to deny (or is it defy?) our expectations repeatedly.
If I didn't know better I would say it must be incredibly easy to write a book like this.
Another great farce. Twists and turns with Wooster reading he is engaged and his friend Kipper trying to marry the lovely vermillion head who gets him in an entanglement. Funny throughout with his aunt, cow creamer and his old school master from the past. Thankfully Jeeves solves all their problems albeit Bertie ending up looking like a loon.
Any of Wodehouse's "Jeeves and Wooster" books are books worth reading. His books are delightful escapes into a world where misadventures happen. Don't except solutions to world hunger or any other problems of humanity to be solved. Instead, just sit back & enjoy the ride. I find it impossible to read a Wodehouse novel without laughing.
It was mayhem all around and I lived it through with Bertie. But this time around Bertie unfortunately failed to make a mess of it as much as he is capable of. And Jeeves was a late entry as the saving saint. Enjoyed this one immensely best of all the Jeeves I've read so far.
Is it just me or the book is incredibly unfunny? I reckon the British humor isn't ha ha laughter track kinda funny. But I did expect a few subtle chuckles. Sadly there were none.
Exactly what form this would take I was of course unable to say - it might be one thing or it might be another - but a voice seemed to whisper to me that somehow at some not distant date Bertram was slated to get it in the gizzard.and the heavens bless you, bertie wooster, for it!----bonus: aunt dahlia quotes!1."A very hearty pip-pip to you, old ancestor," I said, well pleased, for she is a woman with whom it is always a privilege to chew the fat."And a rousing toodle-oo to you, you young blot on the landscape," she replied cordially.2.
"Do you know, Bertie, there are times - rare, yes, but they do happen - when your intelligence is almost human."3.
All the Jeeves & Wooster books are good, but this is one of the best.
We get Aunt Dahlia, Sir Roderick Glossip playing an undercover butler, scheming Bobby Wickham...
and the cow creamer makes a reappearance!
This despite the fact that Jeeves is on vacation for much of the story, only popping in now and then to lend his magnificent brain to Bertie's and friends' problems.
His final solution is especially hilarious.
:)These books are great to read or listen to.
I feel sorry for people who haven't discovered Bertie and Jeeves yet - they're missing out on a load of fun!
The usual hijinks and misunderstandings, all wrapped up in a Jeevesian bow. There’s a lot less Jeeves-Bertie banter than one could wish for, but it still goes down sweet and smooth as hot chocolate on a frosty day.
Sometimes I feel the best thing for me to do would be: retire to my 19th century lake house and do nothing for a year other than drink coffee, smoke cigarettes, and read everything P.G. Wodehouse ever wrote. Think it'd be time well spent.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
My first Wodehouse. A positive delight!
Another Wodehouse classic; the action takes place almost exclusively at Brinkley Court, the home of Bertie’s Uncle Tom and Aunt Dahlia Travers.
Other returning characters include Sir Roderick Glossop (but on the side of the angels, for once!) and Roberta “Bobbie” Wickham.
Also making a return appearance is a certain 18th century silver cow-creamer.
Jeeves is conspicuously absent for much of the book, and consequently, the situation is pretty dire when he arrives just in time, of course, to save the day - by throwing Bertie under the bus.
Not the best of Jeeves & Wooster but still quite entertaining.
Do his books even need a review ?
No,they seriously don't !
There's Bertie at Brinkley Court(summoned by Aunt Dahlia of course for another small favour)again which is overflowing with a variety of birds while Jeeves is away on a holiday.
There's a lazy cat and an active Daschund also thrown in and total madness and mayhem ensues and Bertie has no option but to fetch Jeeves.
Seriously, if you haven't read him till now, you've missed out on not just the greatest comedy writer ever but one of the best things life had to offer in the 20th century.5/5
It's nearly impossible to read a Wodehouse book and stay in a bad mood...
nobody could turn a comic phrase like he could and this novel is packed full of examples.
The plot is as ever complex (and hilarious) as in his other novels and very satisfying.
Jeeves is in this story less than usual (as he is on "holiday" for much of the novel) but that doesn't mean this one doesn't rank up there with Plum's best works.
This was my second time reading this one (and I'll probably read it again someday).
Reading this reminded me (yet again) why Wodehouse is my very favorite author.
This one is particularly funny. I lost track of how many engagements were made and broken. Wooster ends up with the short end of the stick, I think. :)I listened to the audio.2018 A book from a library
non uno dei suoi migliori
Every Hollywood comedy I had ever seen came back to me as I saw the prototype from which they were modeled, and now I don't believe I'll ever see a movie like that again without wishing I was actually reading P.G. Wodehouse.
First, the situation becomes so complex and entangled that at one point it is almost incomprehensible, and the reader has to be surprised he can tie it down at all.
Third, he has a way of using tension perfectly when revealing details to the reader-- never too hastily, never too slowly.
The British edition he gave me is actually called "Jeeves on the Offing," which is a much more appropriate title.
Even though Jeeves tried to take a vacation, he still ended up saving Bertie Wooster. The language in these books makes me ridiculously happy, and as I have only read a few Wodehouse books thus far it was the first time coming across a writing technique he infrequently used that was clever and made my brain work a little harder.
Getting hooked on Wodehouse
I can't believe Wodehouse wrote this when he was like 80. As great as any other Jeeves novel, despite the conspicuous lack of Jeeves for 90% of the novel. I recommend it if you like Jeeves and Wooster, or if you at least have a brain and a sense of h. The sixties' culture references threw me for a bit, but those come nowhere near ruining the book. Check it out!
And just like that the series is over. It has been a great ride to go along with Jeeves and Wooster and all of their misadventures. These books are the funniest things I've ever read and I am so grateful they found their way into my reading challenge this year. Working on collecting the entire set.
