https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/212957.Outline_of_a_Theory_of_Practice
In your heart you know he's right."Hello, I'm Pierre.
It looks like you want to solve all the problems and problematic dichotomies that have continually been plaguing the human sciences.
May I assist you?"I feel that part of why Bourdieu is today's doxa is because he synthesizes all the insights of the Heroes.
All the old-fashioned theorists that you spent so much time learning, but thought you'd never see again (the toys you abandoned when you left childhood) are all there at this shindig at Bourdieu's house!
Oh look everybody, it's Karl!
Pierre smiles at me and rides off into the sunset.
He sayin' all sorts of stuff, like “structuring structures” and a “present past that tends to perpetuate itself into the future” that make me want to lie down.
Maybe it’s because he parler voo francey and this was Englished by some nut case, but maybe he's crazy in French, too.
But, I reckin’ he does have some nifty little ideas, like habitats and doxer, and some real good food for thought, once you get past the wordy baggage.And now he is smilin’ down from yonder heaven, smirkin' at all these here anterpol’gists who have to read him fer school.
And all them can parler voo francey 'til judgment day.
But the real meat is the three short theoretical chapters: 'The Objective Limits of Objectivism,' argues that a purely objective social science (which looks at the world from a third person perspective) will never capture the importance of social rituals.
The big problem is with that last little bit; Bourdieu's 'political' perspective is one that assumes, without further ado, that *only* 'heterodoxy' or heresy can produce new ideas; that both doxa and orthodoxy are by definition bad; and that everything is, in the last instance, the product of material interests and nothing else.
Plan on averaging about 4 pages an hour.
What we find here, is a critical analysis of how these structure are socially produced through coded practices, passed on (or reproduced) through habitus acquired through schooling and upbringing, and fetishized into “nature” “taste”.
Bourdieu is often criticized by later scholars as NOT giving agency to the individual.
Agency has been fetishized as freedom from organized forces and systemic structures, which is in turn mythifized into the foundation of our democracy that demands this fiction of agentive self to guarantee both the political and institutional myth-making.
i hear its better in french. and if i had time to outline every sentence perhaps it would be easier to follow. that said, how can one not love structuring structures?
Wonderful. 10 stars out of 5.
Molasses-thick, filled with structuralist concepts and analyses of the Kabyle habitus and doxa, this isn't a work by the Bourdieu I came to know and love in La Distinction. But some of is analyses are truly insightful, making room for both structure and agency, recognizing the role of physical motion in establishing practice, and proving that there is a middle ground between relativism and objectivity. Not a breezy afternoon read, but an important contribution to social theory, and one I'm glad I read.
This is the last book of the summer for Art Theory Summer Camp. I would not call this an easy read, but Bourdieu provides an excellent tool kit for looking at the assumptions we all have when asking questions and how the question itself reveal our bias.
I keep going back to this book because it takes the Wittgensteinian line of representing philosophy as an intellectual error - but the catch is, as Aristotle observed, even those who attack philosophy are doing philosophy!
"Almost comically obtuse at time (in the great French postmodern tradition!) but this work does a good job introducing some key concepts in social anthropology such as ""doxa."""
I don't know who to blame, the writer or the translator, but someone has no idea how to form a legible sentence.
Phrases that seem directly translated but are not useful as is ("Structuring structures" for example).
However, words are not directly equivalent across languages.I am of the belief that if two writers, in two different languages, wrote the same book, they would be incomparable.
I don't know if I'm being clear, but I think the sin of this translator is to think that translations consists solely of exchanging one word for an equivalent, without the contextual understanding of why the word was chosen or how it would be read.
A concise and thorough explanation to arguably one of the most dynamic reconciliations of sociology's structure and agency paradox. Bourdieu's theory of practice avoids reductionism at all costs and makes an admirable attempt to describe the complexity of human action through a multi-faceted, stratified deconstruction of identity. The Habitus, Doxa, Forms of capital all come together to provide the social sciences with a beautifully pragmatic contribution. A joy to read and an even bigger joy when applied to everyday life.
It's quite French. There's a lot of suggestive material that asserts broad theses without doing what I could recognize as arguing for them, esp. in the ways that practices cannot be understood in more "objective" or "cognitive" ways. But the suggestions are certainly interesting. It provides, I suppose, a way of looking at phenomena that one might investigate on one's own and invites questions to ask.
This volume presents Bourdieu's formulations of key concepts largely based on ethnographic analyses in North Africa. It works especially well in conjunction with the volume titled The Field of Cultural Production, which applies his economic analyses to European trends in Modern Art, which are only hinted at in the concluding chapter here.
Provides a very useful heuristic for analyzing social practices which surmounts the distortions caused by the strict methodological dichotomy between objectivism/subjectivism. Knowledge of the European (esp. French) intellectual tradition is helpful.
Wonderful book about human relations being about tactics and strategy, so an objective account and a subjective account both miss the point.
"The most successful ideological effects are those which have no need of words, and ask no more than complicitous silence".Unreadable at first yet very interesting once you adjust to the style of thought (and translation).
It's a mix of everything: anthropological research in Algeria, parallel marriages, rites and rituals, male vs female and all other dichotomies, economics, linguistics - all brought up together to viciously fight against "outdated" epistemological principles.
Mon dieu, it's Bourdieu!"The logical relations constructed by the anthropologist is opposed to "practical" relationships -- practical because continually practiced, kept up, and cultivated -- in the same way as the geometrical space of a map, an imaginary representation of all possible roads and routes, is opposed to the networks of the beaten paths."
Difficult read that I had to supplement with several other readings in order to fully grasp Bourdieu's practice theory. Important theory on the structuring structure of society, incorporating his concepts of habitus, capital, and field, and applying it to the Algerian Kabyle tribe that he was studying.
Not a particularly easy or riveting read, but its full of great theoretical concepts and you need to interact with it.
Terminei!!!
getting through it very slowly
thanks pooja for sending me this book. it is a very difficult book, as one sentence is a paragraph long!! tough read but very important theory for my MA thesis:)
I found this one particularly dry but none the less brought up many important things to keep in mind when conducting ethnographical studies.
I have already read this, but it was for school, and I would like to read it again (and absorb more.)
His language makes this book just barely comprehensible, some of his articles are better. Seems silly to need people to interpret your jargon. Of course very important theory here nevertheless.
The writing is incomprehensible. Perhaps it is better in French?
I am impressed!
