https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118108.Delirious_New_York
pure unadulterated architectural self-aggrandizement. completely pretentious crap. some interesting material, but you have to wade through every other sentence of bullshit metaphysical declarations that this guy just pulls out of his ass.
The main thing I learned from this book is that architects have incredible freedom in establishing their own narratives. It helps when it is done masterfully, as is the case here.Seemingly unrelated and sometimes arbitrary elements intermingle to produce an intense and inimitable environment...the history of urban life in Manhattan becomes spectacle as seen through the critical eye of the author. Fueled by Koolhaas' precise and colorful verbal descriptions, the book makes good use of historical images to produce a grand and absurd vision that, in my opinion, contains a healthy dose of self-criticism.
Inevitably, the most memorable elements are weird details, such as Gaudi’s never-built skyscraper (pictured here), everything about Dreamland on Coney Island (which deserves the many pages Koolhaas devotes to it), the 1931 costume ball at which architects dressed as the skyscrapers they designed, and Dali’s arrival in NYC:For shock effect on arrival, Dali decides to realise - retroactively - a Surrealist project originally intended to upset Paris, the baking of ‘a fifteen metre loaf of bread’.
Much like Lefebvre in Writings on Cities, Koolhaas is no great fan of Le Corbusier, although he discusses his views on New York in some detail.
Can you imagine if this dystopian scheme had materialised.'delirious new york' is by no means a systematic or full history of its architecture and planning, nor is it meant to be.
Rem Koolhaas patří mezi nejuznávanější architekty a je považován za současného Picassa architektury. Ale svou kariéru začal jako teoretik, kdy napsal tuto knihu, která je dodnes jednou ze základních příruček oboru. Je v ní krásné vyznání z obdivu k nekontrolovanému rozrůstání Manhattanu. A to přitom nesnáší mrakodrapy. Každopádně disharmonie protichůdných elementů se stala později jedním z poznávacích znamení jeho staveb. Já město New York miluji a díky této knize jsem mohl město poznat mnohem důkladněji. Hned bych ho chtěl znovu navštívit a projít si všechna místa, o kterých Rem píše ve svém manifestu.
It was purely man over nature.The second constriction was the 1916 Zoning Law, which prescribed how high a building could be in relation to its footprint.
It was created in response to the realization that buildings produce shadows and that people seek to have access to light and air.The book describes several architectural responses to these constrictions.
The story of the construction of the Empire State Building justifies reading the entire book.A third project is the Downtown Athletic Club.
New York is WEIRD.
Man is ultimately controlled by his quest for knowledge, and the once-noble project of Enlightenment is turned towards chaos and destruction."You're stealing my stuff, Frenchmen.What saves Koolhaas is the fact that he's a working architect and, i'll add, a damn fine one at that.
The Seattle Public Library, where I checked out this very volume of Delirious New York, is one of Koolhaas' designs and it's a wonder.
If this is the basis for that kind of noble, unearthly, whimsical, and still remarkably practical architecture, I'll take it.
Auf einem Fasching, bei dem die Architekten als ihre eigenen Wolkenkratzer auftreten, stellt eine Frau das "Basin-Girl" dar: "Sie steht für die fortdauernde Peinlichkeit der biologischen Prozesse des menschlichen Organismus, die sich gegen die hochfahrenden Ambitionen und technische Sunblimierung als restistent erwiesen haben." Der Downtown Athletic Club, ein Hochhaus für Junggesellen, in dem auch "Darm-Irrigationen" vorgenommen werden, bei denen den Eingeweiden Bakterienkulturen zugeführt werden, was den Mann verjüngen soll.
Le Corbusier, der bei einem ersten Besuch die Wolkenkratzer zu klein findet und vorschlägt, sie abzureißen und durch Türme auf Rasenflächen zu ersetzen, die durch Autobahnen verbunden werden.
Koolhaas, the most influential voice in contemporary architecture, explicated his theory of Manhattanism in "Delirious NY" in 1979.
30 years on, it still stands as a fascinating insight into the culture and architecture that make NY one of the great cities of the world.
Notable chapters include Coney Island: the technology of the fantastic, The Lives of a Block, the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel and the Empire State Building and Radio City Music Hall: the Fun Never Sets.
I lived in NY for 8 years and I found Koolhaas to be right on point.
Delirious NY is one of those books that will forever change how you experience the city...
Delirious New York is a book that gives shape and vision to the endless collisions, accidents, and collaborations that produced the signature architecture of Manhattan. As much a history of schemes and illusions as a lucid extrapolation of the pragmatism that bore out the aesthetics of the skyscraper within the limits of the grid, the zoning law of 1916 and the city's ever present culture of congestion, Koolhaas is dazzling as he reads the formal code of the city's past through its buildings and balances their history, biography and sociology.
An excellent read not only for readers interested in architecture. The book greatly conveys the feel of unrealistic, almost derilic process of development of "the greatest city on earth". Surprisingly light to read and engaging through many expamles, execellent graphics and interesitng facts.
Delirious prose! Wonderful little book on the bizarre, wacky and ridiculous ideas that took Coney Island and Manhattan during the pre-and early sky scraper era.
A history lesson, dissertion in urbanism and thought experiment soaked in pretentious intellectualoid blabber.
Should be called New York Delusion.
Truly brilliant at times, it did make me marvel, but you really have to indulge the writer and power through the text to get to them.
It is, I guess, the point of the book, to sell this idea of congestion and manhattanism as an urbanism concept (and I am CERTAINLY not even close to being an expert on the matter), but for me, it mostly felt flat on its face.
But what would I know.Some really beautiful ideas in there though, especially in the first and last chapters of the book.
I'd been pushing the thought of reading this book for so long, since buying it in 2008.
Most books on Architecture these days talk about some bullshit ideas, but described through flowery yet complex words.
But, Delirious New York is none of those.
He tells his reasons for writing the book, explains the retro active manifesto of New York by tracing the history of the place, mentions about the people involved during the time and then concludes with his own projects (collaborated with Elia Zenghalis etc) to show how the manifesto could be then used for new projects in other cities.
I will have to give this another read. I truly tried my best to get through most of it, but I found the rhetoric and syntax to be obnoxiously tedious while lacking in cogency and force.
Rem Koolhaas' 'Delirious New York' is not merely a book on architecture, but an investigation into the psychology of what Koolhaas calls the 'culture of congestion' which served to influence 'Manhattanism'—a philosophy to world-building which ushered the golden age of the skyscraper.
He cannot admit to this disgust; he sublimates it by identifying external exploitation and corruption as the reason for the masses' aberrations."And though Coney Island and its fantastic backdrop of technological razzamatazz provides as a covert inspiration for what was to become a gold standard in Manhattan, city planning in the roaring twenties wore the mask of practicality, citing banal issues like real estate prices and bang-for-its-buck—what was really at play was a marriage between the needle and the globe, that is, the monument and the world which was to be contained in these skyscrapers, these tiny one block ecosystems.
Koolhaas is the king.
Rem Koolhaas is an architect and writer whose style of glossy, heavily-illustrated art and architecture books have become the norm since their release in the 1970s.
Published in 1978, Koolhaas proposed that the street grid system of Manhattan, as well as what he called the "Culture of Congestion", developed with the culture of the city, feeding off each other until it was impossible to tell if the architecture created the culture or vise-versa.
He traces the cultural development of the city in regard to architecture, this is not a simultaneous history of New York.
But bushwhack through this babble and you catch fleeting vistas of lucid thought about the unique architecture of NYC.Rem has put his mind to understanding both the material and psychological engines of architecture as one complex.I was in the habit of thinking of the progression of architectural styles as basically the constant interplay of the material imperative (cost of building materials, abundance of capital, utility and use, shifting technologies, zoning laws, etc.) with the cultural imperative (making buildings look nice by whatever standard, or like they are part of a tradition, or like they fit in, or stand out, or allign with some kind of values).
L'ho appena finito e vivo simultaneamente un momento di stasi e un momento di frenesia nel voler dire qualcosa al riguardo.Wow. No, forse così non va bene.Ok, ci sono.
Questa è una cosa che mi ha fatto sempre impazzire, sarà perchè nel mio piccolo ho questa tendenza.La seconda ammirazione va alla nascita del: 'cavolo è vero!' al termine di ogni congettura.La terza ammirazione è l'avermi ficcato New York come una pulce nell'orecchio, io che per la cultura americana non nutro spirito di attaccamento.La quarta ammirazione va per i progetti deliranti, da fottersi dalle risate.
Premio indiscusso la nuova zattera di Gèricault.La quinta ammirazione va per la comunicazione diretta ed efficace, che mi spinge a scrivere come una ragazzetta.
Whether you are an architect or just want to expand your knowledge about one of the busiest cities in the world - this book definitely will appeal to you. Rich history of the most iconic city of the U.S. will leave anyone amused. Whenever you will go to NYC after reading this masterpiece you will look at the city from a different perspective.
Dans sa quête du progrès sans fin, la petite île de Manhattan projette ses ambitions toujours plus haut dans le ciel.Koolhaas théorise et donne un sens aux innombrables expérimentations, accidents et collaborations qui ont donné naissance à l’architecture qui fait l’identité de Manhattan.
Produit de la recherche du profit maximal couplé aux nouvelles technologies, le gratte-ciel s’impose et fascine, sans jamais dépasser les limites de la trame, seul élément constant et intouchable.
Hommes d’affaires, théoriciens, artistes et même Le Corbusier : rien n’échappe au regard critique de l’auteur.Dépassant la fiction, Manhattan nous montre ce qui se passe lorsque l’homme met la nature à ses pieds et transforme son environnement en véritable usine à fantasmes.
Interesting historical tidbits about the development of New York (including some plans that were never built), wrapped up in a "retroactive manifesto" of Manhattanism, which, as these things go, is fairly readable, but makes much of small observations, like: the street grid calls attention to the finitude of the island, a skyscraper is a piece of territory repeated many times ("the Theorem"), a skyscraper breaks the traditional connection between exterior appearance and interior use ("the Lobotomy").The high point for me is the description (with picture) of a meeting of NYC architects where each is wearing a building he designed as a costume.
Strange.
Thought-provoking.
Curious.
Funny.
Informative.
And sometimes annoying.
I am glad that I finally read it (and finally finished it), but I don't think it lived up to the hype.
Don't get me wrong - parts were Very interesting and entertaining, but as a whole I didn't feel that way.
I do think it hurt my opinion that this book took me soo long to finish.
Had I read it in the span of a few weeks (instead of many, many months) it would probably have made more sense to me and gotten another star.
I'm sure of it.
"Słuchaj, musisz ją przeczytać" - rzucał mi milion razy partner.
"Doooobrze, kiedyś przeczytam".Zaczynałam właśnie pracę nad recenzją Gropiusa i miałam z nim straszny problem.
No bo niby demokratyczny, jednak tak jakby nie do końca, bo niby wszystko w porządku, ale coś mi chwilami nie grało i nie wiedziałam co, a ten stan doprowadzał mnie do pasji.
"Zajrzyj do Koolhaasa, kto wie, może coś Ci wpadnie do głowy" - po raz n-ty zaryzykował Rafał.Jak siadłam, tak przeczytałam.
Ale czad.
I już wiem, co przeszkadza mi w Gropiusie.
To Dobre Intencje.
Po dwóch latach bezkrytycznego zachwytu modernizmem (Przyznajcie się, też to robiliście.
The book focuses on development of several landmark buildings on Manhattan, provides useful insights on "unplanned" process of development of NYC. Describes quite vividly key characters involved in the planning and construction of Rockefeller center, Empire State Building, Waldorf-Astoria.I picked up this book since it was described as an "unurbanist manifesto", sadly I found that book's scope is much smaller, as it does not touch any city planning issues, such as transportation, zoning, etc.
Irreverently witty and thought provoking, Rem Koolhaas's manifesto on Manhattanism is still a must read for architects, planners, and perhaps even landscape architects like myself. Statements like "Manhattan is an accumulation of possible disasters that never happen" require an extra close reading and parts of the text were too abstract and nuanced for me to fully appreciate. However, much of the text is accessible and provides a powerful understanding of the ideas that fueled the growth of Manhattan at the beginning of the last century.
This is a non-fiction book focusing on the history of New York's architecture, explaining how this city architectually exploded into what it is now. It's from the 70's so it's not exactly up to date, and the writing style lives up to it's "delirious" title sometimes. Not every chapter is captivating, but altogether it's a very interesting history lesson on New York. I was especially surprised by the rich history of Coney Island, considering the sad (but somehow beautiful) little beach it is nowadays.
Un libro que le recomendaría a cualquier persona interesada por el mundo de la Arquitectura, por Nueva York, por el Urbanismo… Con una visión completamente innovadora, amena y estrambótica, Koolhaas nos introduce en el complejo universo metropolitano del Nueva York de la primera mitad del siglo XX. Imposible desligar de su contexto donde un ambiente de locura y fantasía general imperaba en Manhattan. https://divagacionesylibros.wordpress...
A really fascinating look at New York's architectural history--and how it's effected/formed the city's culture. Koolhaas discusses how things like the imposition of the grid, the 1916 Zoning Resolution, and a desire for a man-made utopia helped to create a "culture of congestion." He focuses on the development of Coney Island, skyscrapers, Rockefeller Center, and Radio City Music Hall to make his retroactive--and quite solid--case.
A classic masterpiece that every architect and New York City lover should read.Not too academic for people who didn't study architecture, I loved to have the opportunity of reading it while I was living in NYC.Highly recommended to learn a little bit more about NYC history and the importance of Manhattan in architecture world.
