https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9729504-lost-in-shangri-la
Mitchell Zuckoff in Papua New Guinea, next to the wreckage of the Gremlin Special - image from BU Today - photo by Buzz Maxey I bet you watched at least some TV coverage of the rescue of Chilean miners in 2010.
While researching another project, Mitchell Zuckoff happened across this story, actually located one of the survivors, and has rescued this gripping tale from an undeserved oblivion.
"The cabin crumbled forward toward the cockpit. The walls of the fuselage collapsed as though sucked inward. Both wings ripped away. The tail section snapped off like a balsa-wood toy. Flames shot through the wreckage. Small explosions rang out like gunshots. Black smoke choked off the light. The air grew bitter with the stench of burning metal, burning leather, burning rubber, burning wires, burning oil, burning cloths, burning hair, burning flesh."It wasn't easy getting a seat on the Gremlin
It was a good mix of young men and women who were excited about the prospect of joining a select group of people who have been allowed to see Shangri-La. The more experienced pilot was back in the cabin area probably answering questions and flirting with the pretty girls.
The military quickly realized this was an opportunity for wonderful PR and blessed their lucky stars that one of the survivors just happened to be a beautiful young WAC named Margaret Hastings.
Margaret Hastings To add to the poignancy of the story one of the survivors John McCollom lost his twin brother Robert in the crash.
** Before you break your fingers on your keyboard in your haste to flame me for that comment take a moment to ask yourself if I might be joking.In the last months of World War II as America worked its way towards Japan a plane load of military personnel took off for a sightseeing tour of a remote valley in New Guinea that had been dubbed Shangri-La. Previous flights had noted tribes of natives numbering in the thousands, but the terrain prevented visits and viewing them from the air had become a treat for bored service men and women.Unfortunately, this trip turned deadly when the plane crashed and killed almost all the passengers.
Rescuers will have a tough time not only getting in, but due to the geographic problems, getting them out will be near impossible.Did I mention that the area is inhabited by war-like Stone-Age cannibals?
Over-gilding an obvious lily by stretching out the story, amping up the dramatic tension that doesn’t need amping, and addressing events with dramatic potential and then forgetting about elaborating on them (Weren’t they life-threatening or at least limb-losing wounds?
It’s an interesting-true-to-life story that just didn’t need to get juiced quite as much as it did.Sexist pig bonus questions: Ladies, when you are laid low with burns and gangrenous wounds, at the sight of a hot guy, does your libido go on over drive?
WWII Plane crash in the jungle; survivors include a beautiful, plucky, injured WAC; Stone Age lost civilization; rescue mission by paratroopers; tabloid exploitation by news media and government; impending loss of “innocence” as the modern world intrudes into “Shangri-La”.
All of it true and expertly covered in the Four Star Lost in Shangri-la: A True Story of Survival, Adventure, and the Most Incredible Rescue Mission of World War IIa. Highly recommended.
Mountain flying is inherently dangerous and Nicholson ensures the coming crash by descending to low level in a small valley to buzz the natives and give the passengers a better view.
It was that good!You'd think with all the stories written with regards to World War II that all had been told.
Lost in Shangri-La is such a story.
Unable to land, Ellsmore was nonetheless enthralled with what he had seen and told all who would listen about it.
What started out as somewhat of a joy ride turns tragic when the plane crashes leaving all but three dead.
The army makes an all out search for the missing plane.
Three survivors, Corporal Margaret Hastings, Tech Sergeant Kenneth Decker, and Lieutenant John McCollom, see Shrangri-La in a way they never dreamed.
I read a great deal of non-fiction mostly history, military, and political science.
I have a set idea of how nonfiction should be written and that it must be cited and documented.
I don't really know if I would give much more credence that a "Based on a true story" Sunday Night Movie or historical fiction.
The story of survival and the challenges of surviving in what could be a very hostile wilderness makes for great reading.
The story is full of challenges.
I will call it a very interesting story based on real events.
Like Margaret’s swimming hole, my sister used to take us out to someone’s ranch and we all sneaked into their hot spring pool during the night.When Margaret survived the plane crash her legs were severely burned, so she feared losing them.
Long ago, according to the Uluayek legend, the valley people and the sky spirits climbed up and down the vine to visit one another.
No one knew for sure, because the spirits had stolen pigs and women, and the people of the valley had cut the vine, ending contract.
The Uluayek legend claimed that one day the sky spirits would replace the vine and climb down again.
I was unexpectedly enlightened when I recently picked up Mitchell Zuckoff's book, Lost in Shangri-La: Escape from a Hidden World, A True Story.Shangri-La was a fictional valley in the Himalayas created by James Hilton in his 1933 novel entitled Lost Horizon.
So it was no surprise when a virtually untouched, beautiful valley deep in Dutch New Guinea was discovered by soldiers stationed at Hollandia Military Base during WWII, and nicknamed Shangri-La. On May 13, 1945, a military airplane carrying 24 officers (male and female) from Hollandia on a sightseeing expedition over the valley, crashes into a mountain base at the entrance of the valley.
My favorite parts:• The development of the relationship between the native people, rumored to be hostile, and the survivors and soldiers – their interactions could have gone awry very easily• The anthropological information about these isolated native people, what their lives were like, how they viewed the outsiders, why they acted as they did – this was all based on research and interviews with the native people involved – I found it fascinating • The ingenuity and creative thinking employed throughout the rescue attemptContent includes descriptions of painful injuries, death, and rituals surrounding tribal warfare.
Recommended to those with an interest in anthropology, the history of WWII, or stories of survival under extreme conditions.
But unfortunately, the only person the author could interview was the paratrooper, so despite the fantastic potential of reading a story about Maggie, McCollum, and Decker, the storyteller in me felt the tale lacked the details that could have taken it from ho-hum to awesome.
I’m glad Zuckhoff didn’t make stuff up, but I guess he needed a time machine to really do the story justice.
The book was the right size, it just had too much information on everyone on the periphery and not enough about the survivors doing their surviving.
And it wasn’t there, because Zuckhoff didn’t know.
Sure, but there are other WWII survival/rescue books I’d recommend first.
Zuckoff almost pulls that off...but he can't quite get his boner out of it.Because he can't at all hide his crush on pretty survivor Margaret Hastings, which zooms from zero to creep city faster than a plane zooms into a mountain.
She intended to use the panties' silky fabric to make bandages for herself and the other survivors.Zuckoff will bring up Margaret's panties about every other page for the rest of the book.
The army has forbidden white panties because, hanging on a clothesline, they could attract an enemy.] This is a terrific book for people interested in true adventure and survivor stories, or WWII-era ladies' underwear.
Lost in Shangri-La is a simple, enjoyable story about a tragic plane crash and a subsequent rescue mission. It's a little slow at the start but after initial character introductions it's a smooth read. The prose is straightforward, effective, and doesn't contain overwhelming details; just enough to engage your imagination (although at some points in the book I wished for more detail about the lives of the natives). This may not be the greatest survival story ever but it's quite an interesting adventure and overall I really enjoyed this book.
This book is SO not what I was expecting. A plane goes down in New Guinea in WW2 and only 3 people survive and have to find a way out of the jungle surrounded by cannibals stuck in the Stone Age and perhaps rogue Japanese soldiers. Shouldn't that be exciting? It should, but this book is strangely unemotional, disconnected and boring. What tension the author tries to inject is obviously manufactured. I really wanted to like this book, but it is a strong 1 1/2 stars.
Lost in Shangri-la tells the true story of the fatal plane crash in May, 1945 of 24 U.S. Army servicemen and WAC's on a pleasure tour of the remote New Guinean jungle with only 3 survivors. This incredible story details their encounter with the local natives, their horrific life-threatening injuries, and the dangerous conditions of the rescue mission while still adding in a bit of humor. Amazing historical read!
I don't know if it was the topic of the Americans crashed and rescued out of a very difficult to reach spot, their interactions with the natives, how they survived, the time period and location of WWII in the Pacific or how it was written, but it all grabbed my attention and refused to let it go.
I would like to read more about the natives though.
I like to think in some parallel universe, they were never discovered and that they are still living their way of life.
Author was not good as the audiobook narrator.This is a true story - a good story.
But I’m not sure I liked the things the author chose to put in the story.
I’ve read other authors who take facts and make them into an engaging story.
He did a back story about women who died at other times and places during World War II - that did not interest me.
One thing that continues to trouble me: at various times during a female’s life the men chop off her fingers.
The author should not narrate his own book.
Grab some "Color-by-color" hard candies (reds, greens, yellows, and so on), start sucking and start reading this book!
I admit--I never thought it would be THIS good.
IT was: Important AND GREAT!!!This story is sooooooooooooooooo damn engaging ---I could not stop reading.
I was fine to just "suck-on-some-candy" and keep reading!
But we could always understand each other's hearts and intentions.
The greatest miracle that befell McCollom, Decker and me, aside from our escape from death in the crash, was the fact the natives were good and gentle people.
Amazing Story!!!
.........And....Amazing Author for an outstanding well-written book!
Onvan : Lost in Shangri-la: A True Story of Survival, Adventure, and the Most Incredible Rescue Mission of World War II - Nevisande : Mitchell Zuckoff - ISBN : 61988340 - ISBN13 : 9780061988349 - Dar 384 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2011
While the actual events were without doubt written in an exciting manner, there were periods of time where they were simply recuperating from their terrible injuries (gangrene effecting the plane crash survivors as much as their initial injuries), where the book turns to more anthropological writing - how the Americans interpreted the natives, and how the natives interpreted the Americans!
The natives were Dani and their whole interaction with the soldiers was interesting, and a unnavigable maze of confusion and misunderstanding, right from the start when the soldiers though the natives took them as women (when really they were feeling their clothes, having thought they were covered in mud) through to the belief that they were spirits and not humans at all.
This is the kind of story that if it weren't true would be completely unbelievable. Zuckoff writes well, and the narrative has just the right amount of back story to flesh out a page-turning yarn.
(Really more 3.5 stars)I thought I was done reading books set in New Guinea but when I was flying home the only book that sounded interesting on my iPad was this story about a plane that crashes into the Baliem Valley of New Guinea during World War 2.
I know the Baliem Valley because that is where the Dani people live, and I have read multiple books about them.
Only three people survived the crash, and this book is an account of how they were rescued and the story up to that time.
Find this and other reviews at: http://flashlightcommentary.blogspot....I'm not sure who decided to dub Mitchell Zuckoff's Lost in Shangri-La a thrill ride in the blurb, but I respectfully disagree with the assessment.
I mean no offense, but the book put me to sleep on multiple occasions and that's not an experience I associate with heart-pounding, adrenaline inducing excitement.To be clear, I liked the content.
I felt Zuckoff's research thoroughly detailed and I enjoyed the enthusiasm he had for the story.Unfortunately, I found the telling dry and plodding.
Stylistically, the book did nothing for me and that made it incredibly difficult to share in the author's interest and passion.
Lost in Shangri-la: A True Story of Survival has been on my TBR list ever since I read I read Zuckoff’s Frozen in Time, and while the two have very different paths, there’s a commonality in their stories, somewhat similar to Laura Hillenbrand’s Unbroken: A World War II Book of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption.
While James Hilton’s Shangri-La survivors may have found a paradise of sorts, Zuckoff’s Shangri-La is much more grim, the environment less welcoming, at best, and unforgiving much of the time.
Even though they face tough odds, a hostile environment and extremely painful injuries, they are all determined to maintain an outlook that is beyond merely positive.
This is one of the most unusual stories from World War II that I have read!
In 1945, a plane carrying 24 members of the U.S. military and Women's Army Air Corps crashed in a remote jungle area in Guinea.
The three survivors had no food, water, or supplies.
The area was so inaccessible that the native tribes who were living in primitive conditions there had never seen a white person.
Japanese troops also occupied much of the surrounding area.
But the military personnel at their base refused to abandon them.
This incredible survival story reads like a novel, but it is true!

On May 13, 1954, a C-47 military plane called the Gremlin Special, carrying 24 service men and women on a sightseeing expedition to the fabled valley of “Shangri-La”, crashed deep in the jungle of Dutch New Guinea.
Unbelievably, three of the passengers survive: Women’s Army Corps (WAC) Corporal Margaret Hastings, Lieutenant John McCollom, and Sergeant Kenneth Decker.
By the inspired leadership of McCollom, who despite the loss his twin brother in the crash, rises to challenge after challenge, they make there way to a small clearing where they have a chance of being seen by rescue planes.It is in this clearing, that the three first encounter face-to-face the much-feared natives of the valley.
Even today, after they have been on television, the Dani and Yali people of the Beliem Valley in Western New Guinea are still primitive, unabsorbed by modern life.
In 1945, they could only account for white people showing up as the beginning of the end of days described in their creation mythology.The U.S. Army Air Force stationed on New Guinea called the valley Shangri-La when they accidentally found it and saw the neat villages and row crops laid out on the green valley floor.
This is the story of the effort to rescue the survivors.Five made it out of the plane alive.
What an amazing story - a plane filled with "sightseeing" servicemen and WACs crashes in what they think is a hidden valley (except it's actually one valley over), and only three people survive.
They escape the crash site, hidden in the jungle, and make it to a clearing where they meet Stone Age tribesmen who don't kill them, and after a few days are found by a search plane.
The valley is one mile up, so helicopters won't work.
It's jungle-filled, and landing a plane won't work.
This is a fantastic look at one of the lost stories of World War II.
Though the story garnered brief worldwide attention in 1945, the details soon were lost in the bigger picture of the Allied victory in the war.
Zuckoff takes many characters and gives each one depth and detail, then weaves their stories into one epic tale.
After reading the book, I feel like I know the characters.
Additionally, Zuckoff paints such a vivid picture of New Guinea that it seems I have visited the exotic locale.This is not a gruesome war story like many from World War II.
