https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147941.Figure_Drawing_for_All_It_s_Worth
But the mathematician in me is also just bowled over by the attention to proportion ratios and visual guides for such (is it a freudian slip that I kept accidentally writing the letter k instead of h in the word such?).
I am quite sure that there are many other books that will delve into the fine details of ratios and proportions and tell you the magic numbers you need to make you hero look...heroic and everyone else dumpy, fashionable or whatever fits your fancy.
My characters may not all need to look like the 50s pin-up women or Arian comic book men, but as long as you have a great foundation, you can go anywhere/draw anything.
I love this book. It's old fashioned but that's okay, especially when it comes to a book on drawing. I can't think of anything that would stop being relevant fifty years from now... The figures may be a little idealized in proportions but you can learn just as much from it. Andrew Loomis writes to the reader like a friend. This book is perfect for reading with a cup of coffee and your sketchbook nearby.
My manga illustration teacher introduced me to this book for basic human figure drawing and i’ve been using it ever since. Although this book is very old (first published in 1943), it is still a great reference book for figure drawing in my opinion. Check out my full reference books collection here: http://korpannita.wordpress.com/2013/...
Enticing contours that will stir up your desire to try drawing few lines to see if you can replicate the shape of the woman or man you might like.
The book has good explanations, and you never know, if you like how your combined lines look at the end, you might try few more times and eventually develop a new skill or advance the ones that you are already pretty good at.
This book is a wonderful collection of drawings of the human body in the context of statics and dynamics!

As an intermediate artist I found it overwhelming. I was hoping for more how-to's and less actual complete drawings. Also the ideal human figure got tiring after 50 pages. You definitely won't learn how fat works here. He spends a page talking about complicated subjects like the dreadful Box and a page on something trivial like advertisements. I definitely loved the style and some of the things were explained pretty well, but there must be better books out there.
This guy is amazing- if you want to be able to draw the figure, either from life, or purely constructed from line and imagination- then this is the guy to read.This is a sumptuous re-print of the original classic and well-worth buying- however all his books a brilliant and are readily available as downloads because they are out of copy-writeThis book and 'Drawing on the Right side of the Brain' are the best books for any one contemplating figure drawing
If you're an artist and you want a great book on life drawing, this is it. Thankfully it's back in print too. Highly recommended.
Finally finished this, after dipping in and out for a year and a half. His breezy mastery still feels out of reach for an amateur lug like me, but his lessons and approach at least make the path clear. I'll be returning to this as a reference for many years to come.
I think that if these words reach just one person who has had the misfortune of never hearing about Loomis and his works before, then it would all be worth it.If you are a professional artist, aspiring professional artist or historian of art/illustrations texts, then you already know that the quality of this work is exceptional and the only thing that this review will offer you is the knowledge that this epic tome that was first printed in 1943 is now back in print.
His treatment of line and form especially in regards to the female figure shows a superior knowledge and sensitivity that is often not seen in contemporary art and illustration.
An essential book for the artist! Really helped a lot of my rookie-drawings.
Alex Ross was made famous for his life like paintings depicting iconic comic book heroes and has stated that Andrew Loomis was his biggest influence in art.
The influence on Alex Ross was so much that not only is he an alumni of the art school in which Loomis was once an instructor he was also involved in adding text, producing, and printing Andrew Loomis' unfinished 5th and final book "I'd Love to Draw"."Drawing For All It's Worth" is filled with beautiful drawings and detailed instruction on both the male and female form which include mannequin frames, proportions, foreshortening, movement, bones & muscles, light & shadow, weight & balance and clothing & drapery.Highly recommended.
For an aspiring artist or the illustrator who may be out of practice, Loomis' book is very insightful and instructional on how to best draw the figure.
back in 1920-1940 all of which are dead now.Other than that, this is an excellent book for all artists who wish to improve their figure drawing skills, especially those that may be on a tight budget and do not have access to a live model all the time.
The definitive work on figure drawing, in my opinion.
The book is old, but everything that relates to art itself (and that's 98% of the book) is as relevant as ever.
Loomis doesn't go into great technical on any one subject, but delves into the fundamentals across the board and speaks with a maturity and insight that's lacking in most how-to art books.
What's more, he speaks directly to you in a very personal voice.I read this years ago, and it was amazing how much it helped me focus on improving my craft.
This will only make some small sense if you have a basic grasp of perspective drawing. It seems to be 90% Mr Loomis showing us what nice things he drew. We get it, he can draw things. There is almost no actual instruction that can help you when you draw something on your own instead of copying examples. I'd strongly recommend "Figure Drawing: Design and Invention" by Michael Hampton instead. Loomis' "Successful drawing" was much more informative.
Really enjoyed this, even with the sexism of the time. Think I might pick up more of his books.
Even if nowadays you can find all kinds of books about figure drawing, many of them simplify it too much in order to make the subject seem easier and give you the impression that you will learn faster and without effort.
However, if you just want to know how to imitate figure drawings as a hobby or out of curiosity and don't plan to invest time for further developing your skills and prefer instant gratification, then this might not be the book for you.
Great for self-taught artists.If you find this book too challenging but want to get at this level of good, I recommend you to first check Loomis' Fun with a Pencil
It is a great book for advice rather than actually learning anatomy. It is inspiring somehow but the way he draws women is extremely sexist, they have unreal proportions, what the f*** breast and high heels even nude? I recommend just reading the advice, the first pages. Though Andrew Loomis' way of drawing is old fashioned and sexist, his mental approach of how an artist should think is inspiring."Your job is to glorify the everyday material" "Mere lifelike representation isn't enough, go beyond obvios facts to pertinent facts, characterization, to simplification" "Everything about your pictures is a little of you..."
Great foundational stuff if you plan on drawing a lot from models. I got more out of the earlier chapters by working through them slowly multiple times. If you plan on drawing from imagination (eg. for cartooning or animation) I hear Loomis' approach is more appropriate.
A must read for any artist
Good book
Definitely an amazing book for figure drawing. I need to look for a better book on Perspective and Foreshortening though.
This guide is best for artists who want to draw superhero comics in the style of 1950s American anatomical canon.
He's been an institution when it comes to illustration.
His works dated way back the 1940's but are still very relevant today.This book features detailed instructions on how to illustrate lively human figures, covering everything from the basics of the human body to proportion, balance and so much more.
A more detailed lecture on drawing heads and hands can be found on his other book Drawing the Head and Hands.Original copies of this book are hard to come by nowadays and are priced expensively.
It's full of great merit here and there, but it stands and outlier in Loomis's collection of how to draw books that I felt really did more harm than good on instructing how I learned to draw.
Even now it feels like there's something to be gained from it, but I wish I started with other, seemingly better books.It did give me an appreciation for what it was trying to do, and learning from other books (some recommended within this very book itself), and made learning from them feel far far smoother.
I just don't feel the book itself was any useful.Eventually I'll revisit Loomis, since Fun with a Pencil was pretty good and Creative Illustration is looking to be better.~July 2015
This book is really focused on commercial art, giving examples of the types of assignments one might fill, and some guidelines about money and equipment.
Some of that information is outdated, and some of it wouldn't apply if you are not planning on art as a profession.
For that, the points he makes about idealization make perfect sense, but I didn't like them (not being particularly fond of advertising in general).The book is still really helpful.
Also, I like the generosity of the book where you sense a sincere desire to raise others up without concern about competition.
北京种牙??▄┨北京康贝佳口腔医院▄┨┨电话：4000075210,专家QQ：20908960，官方:bjkbjkqyy▄┨▅康贝佳牙齿种植首选┨┨┨，传统镶牙方式没有牙根,部分缺牙镶装的假牙,多靠邻牙的支持;但在邻牙上需作卡环固位或切割邻牙作牙套固位,容易损伤邻牙.随着种植牙的出现,很多人都愿意选择种植牙来修复牙齿,那么种植牙有哪些优势到底哪家医种植牙好又便宜专业呢？首选【康贝佳】北京种牙 【康贝佳专业牙齿种植医院】　　北京康贝佳口腔医院患者信赖的口腔医院，北京康贝佳口腔医院一直专注于口腔疾病的研究，始终坚持以口腔的健康为目的，始终倡导绿色、安全、精细化的手术诊疗理念，注重国内外新技术、新成果的临床应用，以专业的临床技术差异化、精细化、专业化，先进的诊疗理念，先进的技术设 备，洁净的手术环境及完善的术后服务，确保口腔整形技术达到良好的效果，造福口腔患者的健康。　　【康有医德，贝齿为佳】　　北京康贝佳口腔医院医疗设施成本高，临床上开展种植技术需要配备较高的设施环境，例如大型X线诊断设施、临床手术设施、技工设施、手术支持设施（心电监护、血象分析等）以及在义齿制作时需要的一些独特的较贵重的修复材料。医疗人才要求高，种植牙是由经过特殊培训的种植外科医生、种植修复医生、种植技师及相应的助手组成的团队来共同完成的，需要的人员成本比较大，这也在一定程度上影响了种植牙价格。种植牙材料较昂贵，种植义齿材料限制严格，种植体的加工工艺复杂且要求极其精确。目前，世界上着名的种植系统，例如瑞士ITI种植系统，种植体及配件多种多样，用于满足不同的修复设计需要，所以种植牙价格成本很高。生活中，牙齿缺失后，种植牙成为了人们时尚有效的拯救方法，其适应范围广，外形美观，逼真，最重要的是其完美的使用功能，被誉为人类的第三副牙齿！
I still remember this fondly, it's one of the core basic books on figure drawing.
So many who come from the schools of Manga and Comics (OK, graphic arts...
*SIGH*) do not get this fundamental training on proper body part ratio, and character posture drawing.When this book was first published the polaroid camera was robbing young artists of their ability to see what's in front of them, or an understanding of how human bodies work.If you are lucky enough to find this book, have your artistic children read this thoroughly, and try some of the techniques.
Long-awaited new edition is a faithful facsimile of the original that I have treasured for years. Now, instead of careful consultation and delicate handling of the book to [reserve it, I can tuck the original onto the shelf and truly take advantage of the excellent contents. Loomis has a talent for teaching as well as drawing - much more accessible than Bridgeman - and his art shines. Because it is a facsimile it reflects the aesthetic of its era. Don't let that blind you to the wealth of Loomis' experience.

