https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226004.A_Deepness_in_the_Sky
There is too much to love here to touch on it all.I cannot think of a villain in science-fiction that is more thoroughly hate-worthy than Tomas Nau. Though he chews up the scenery as a smiling one-dimensional comic book villain, his sociopathic philosophy is thoroughly rationalized that he never seems the least bit unreal.
The campfire retelling of the story would probably necessarily feature a lot less nerdy stuff, though I think we'll have to wait until Hollywood writers and producers finally evolve at least Neanderthal intelligence before they could suitably adapt a work like this.But I'm a nerd, so it's all good as far as I'm concerned.
Makes me want to shave my head, I bet Patrick Stewart can write amazing books if he wanted to, make it so Pat!A few months ago I read A Fire Upon the Deep, Vinge's first "Zones of Thought" novel, it quickly barged its way into my all-time top 20 list.
The author really threw me for loop for the first quarter of the book, I thought may be he is too lazy to think up weird alien names, silly bast that I am.I won't reveal the reason for Vinge's strange anthropomorphism, but it all makes perfect sense as you read on, and read on you must.
Instead, they are used as specialized living tools to further the aim of the controllers, or pod leaders, and are treated as disposable equipment.Initially the Qeng Ho and Emergents form a fragile truce as they observe the aliens, whom they dub ‘Spiders’ due to their arachnid appearance, but there are a number of plots brewing below the surface, and fairly soon there is a major betrayal that brings both sides into open conflict.
Vinge excels at thinking about primitive alien species, and much like the telepathic dog packs in A Fire Upon the Deep, he devotes lots of pages to describing their society in depth.
Now, probably appears in some other science fiction stories, but in this story it is a central feature.
So, there is always a clash between human lifetimes and the actual chronological time.What I thought was somewhat amusing was the psychology of the alien spiders.
While on the surface their appearance is so different from that of humans, from a psychological standpoint they are so similar!
Perhaps the only difference is their different attitude toward death, which seems to be more imminent due to the dangers of the sun cycling down.This is a very long novel, and probably could have been somewhat shorter without losing much.
First--This is one of the best books I have read in a very long time, and, despite the fact that it doesn't quite earn a 5 star rating from me (more on that later), I would highly recommend the book to anyone who's remotely interested in science fiction.
Vinge really hits the balance of "science" and "fiction" almost perfectly--and, even though the book weighs in at a hefty 750+ pages, it never feels too long or bogged down.
. It's a good twist, it really is, but I couldn't help feeling robbed; without reading the book again there's no way to be sure, but I don't think I could have pieced any of it together until it happened.
(hide spoiler)]In retrospect, I'm furious with Vinge for his treatment of women, and I think it's one reason I found this book so triggery.
(view spoiler)[There are strong female characters (Qiwi, Trixia, Anne) at the outset of the story, but their agency is completely taken away.
(hide spoiler)]So: points for world-building and the Spider culture.
Bonus point for (view spoiler)[FLYING KITTENS (hide spoiler)].
Demerits for the (view spoiler)["and then everything worked out and it was all fine" (hide spoiler)] ending.
Entuziasmul posibilității stabilirii unui contact cu o specie necunoscută le înflăcărează imaginația comercianților și pe cea a emergenților (de-a lungul a opt mii de ani de călătorii prin spațiu, oamenii au întâlnit doar alte două civilizații inteligente, una demult apusă, iar cealaltă stagnând în etapa pre-tehnologică), fiecare lansând o flotă către îndepărtatul sistem solar.În ciuda avantajului tehnologic, odată ajunși la capătul expediției, Qeng Ho hotărăsc să încheie o alianță cu flota emergentă, fără a bănui cât de diferite erau cele două culturi.
În cele din urmă, folosindu-se de virusul minții (view spoiler)[un virus mental care eliberează o neurotoxină ce permite controlul persoanei infectate, inducându-i acesteia obsesia unei singure specializări, "focalizând-o" pe o singură idee (hide spoiler)], emergenții obțin controlul flotei și hotărăsc să supravegheze evoluția tehnologică a 
I was imagining a movie version while I was reading this one. half of the movie would be animated and would feature adorable spider-aliens. love those aliens. but I don't know what I'd do about the endless cycle of rape and mind control that happens to a particularly sympathetic character. I don't think I'd want that in my movie.
In contrast, A Deepness in the Sky unifies some of the same tropes—as well as new ones—to create a compelling story and pathos for the plights of the characters.The ideological struggle between the remnants of the Qeng Ho and Emergent fleets is a ripe ground for observations on human society and attitudes toward power.
Vinge manages to make Tomas a believable antagonist, one whose defeat comes not from his own incompetence but from a combination of betrayal and skillful planning on the part of the protagonists.Speaking of protagonists, I like this Pham Nuwen much better than his clone in A Fire Upon the Deep.
I had, it must be admitted, a hard time getting into this one.
I'd pick it up and read a bit, but not make much real headway.
Partly it's because other books that people had on hold at the library came in, or I needed to blast something through to be ready for my book club.
Once I finally did get into the book, I really enjoyed it.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Have you ever read someone else's review of a book and thought, "Yes! That is exactly how I felt!" Well,  Apatt has nailed this one  for me. To the extent that I'm not sure what else to add.Seriously. Go read his review first, and then come back to hear me witter on if you're still interested...............So what can I add to that?My first experience with Vinge was Rainbow's End, which I did not get along with. I thought it was rubbish. I picked up A Fire Upon the Deep as a Hugo winner, with a
Have you ever read someone else's review of a book and thought, "Yes!
Go read his review first, and then come back to hear me witter on if you're still interested...............So what can I add to that?My first experience with Vinge was Rainbow's End, which I did not get along with.
So coming into A Deepness in the Sky I had a kind of hopeful trepidation - would it be another smash hit, or another dreadful miss?It's a definite hit.
It's a really good, interesting book - Vinge does a fabulous job (again) with his alien characters and creates a culture that will live long in the memory.
When the Qeng Ho and the Emergents arrive, the Spiders are dormant, frozen in their deepnesses, but when the star flares to life, they are poised to enter a modern technological age in the next generation.This three-way contest, with Qeng Ho and Emergents fighting a bitter war with each other full of treachery and dashed hopes, while the fate of the Spiders hangs in the balance, makes for a compelling story all the way through to the end.
Not something you find enough in Hard Science Fiction--and Vinge brings off some mind-blowing concepts without ever falling into infodump or other awkward constructions.
It involves the most memorable and vibrant of the human characters, Pham Nuwen and his time among the trading fleet, the Qeng Ho. It's notable though that in A Fire Upon the Deep, what got mentioned in my review and made the greatest impression were the alien characters, the dog-like Tines.
But in this book I found the human characters as strong or stronger than the aliens.
"How are these guys aliens?" you start to think, but the next time you meet the Spiders they are a little weirder, and weirder still.
Maybe I missed the hints, though.The Spider writing struck me as even more clever once this happened though, with the revelation that there was a story reason for the Spiders starting out human and becoming gradually more alien: this was the translators gaining an increased understanding of the culture.
It's "just" fiction, of course, but if the humans can get along with the Spiders, why can't we all get along on Earth?
To make things more interesting (and give us some anthropomorphs to cheer for), the humans are also divided up into good guys and bad guys.Of course, the above variation has already been explored in SF.
The whole thing is confused and rather nonsensical.The author is so uninvolved with his characters that he casually dumps the two most sympathetic ones for good in a scene that takes place offstage.
Perhaps it's just as well; the only big action scene in the book, which takes place inside the chief bad guy's artificial water-garden, is a clumsy, sodden mess.
It doesn't matter whether an award is given out by fans or by peers, critics or the general public, whether the criteria is ostensibly "best" this or "favourite" that.Awards are a crap shoot, influenced by fashions, by lobbying and by plain old bad taste.That's right, I said it.
Sometimes an award is given out to a book (or a movie, or a play, or a poem — the list is as endless as variations in the arts) that simply doesn't deserve it.
My full review lives at Edifice Rex Online.
http://ed-rex.com/reviews/books/zones...
The aliens act like humans, think like humans, pretty much are humans except for the fact that they look some other way, though, frequently, they're also based on bipedal symmetry, just like humans.
like they would be if it was a human in a spider costume.For all of that, though, the story was interesting enough to keep me involved, which says a lot about it considering the fact that I came into it with the idea that it needed to do something right away to get me to keep reading it.
This is an Michener-sized epic tale of conflict, cooperation and betrayal between two human civilizations racing to make first contact with an alien race.To a very small extent, this is a prequel to Vinge's  A Fire Upon The Deep  — it is set much earlier in the same universe, and features the character Pham Nuwen (who plays a somewhat unusual role in Fire).While Fire involves the interactions between many races, Deepness takes place before humans had met any other technological civilizations. It
The two tracks accelerate towards a breathless convergence when contact is made, at which points all subplots and tensions resolve within a few dozen pages.Wikipedia's definition for Space Opera would seem to preclude this from being included (due to the lack of a central romance), but if Star Wars "closely follows many traditional space opera conventions", then so does Vinge's Fire and Deepness:Space opera is a subgenre of speculative fiction or science fiction that emphasizes romantic, often melodramatic adventure, set mainly or entirely in space, generally involving conflict between opponents possessing powerful (and sometimes quite fanciful) technologies and abilities.
Perhaps the most significant trait of space opera is that settings, characters, battles, powers, and themes tend to be very large-scale.Vinge's books are more complex than Star Wars, but otherwise similar in these respects.
The second time through, it became obvious that the "Sherkaner Underhill" character and his people were the spider aliens that the two human cultures were travelling to make contact with, though you really can't tell, from the narrative, that they aren't humans.
(It is their sleeping holes or "deepnesses" that give the book its title.) The two human cultures arrive together and fight almost immediately, crippling their ships and leaving the Emergents in charge.
A beautiful portrait of pragmatism vs idealism, colonialism and collaboration, surveillance culture vs everything, the possibility of deep translation, the beauty and gaucheness of trade, and the ultimate fate of civilisations. Programming went back to the beginning of time. It was a little like the midden out back of his father's castle… There were programs here written five thousand years ago, before Humankind ever left Earth. The wonder of it — the horror of it… down at the very bottom of it
But if you looked at it still more closely… the starting instant was actually about fifteen million seconds later, the 0-second of one of Humankind’s first computer operating systems…“We should rewrite it all,” said Pham.“It’s been done,” said Sura.“It’s been tried,” corrected Bret…“You and a thousand friends would have to work for a century or so to reproduce it… And guess what—even if you did, by the time you finished, you’d have your own set of inconsistencies...”
But a thousand years from now, when Larson was dust, when his civilization had fallen as the planetbound inevitably did—a thousand years from now, Pham and the Qeng Ho would still be flying between the stars.
The review to read is Jo Walton's.
I don't love it quite as much as she does, but I *love* her review: https://www.tor.com/2011/09/28/a-fini...Sample: "One of the things SF can do is show you characters with different mindsets.
Anyone can write a character whose dreams have failed.
Vinge’s writing people from whole societies whose dreams have failed over millennia.
And yet, this is a cheerful optimistic book in which awful things happen but good wins out.
If you haven't come across them before, do take a look at her "What Makes This Book So Great", https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...And her editor's intro, "What Makes Jo Walton So Great," linked there.
Neizmjerno sam uživala čitajući ovu knjigu. Prava je poslastica, od prve pa sve do zadnje stranice. Kakva dobra ideja! Koja kompleksna zanimljiva savršeno ispričana priča! Odlični likovi! Totalno sam navijala za pozitivce, bila tužna zbog njih, radovala se njihovim pobjedama. I paukoliki likovi koji bi mi se u biti nekako gadili (zato što su paukoliki, jel!) osmišljeni su s toliko ljudskosti da ih čovjek jednostavno ne može ne zavoljeti. :) Ma joj, pet zvjezdica nije dovoljno za nju, zaslužila je bar 10! Vernor Vinge je jedan od najboljih pisaca naučne fantastike po mom skromnom mišljenju. :)
won off www.librarything.com
The book has one of the most chilling hi-tech tyrannies I've ever seen (all the more so because, at it's core, there's something extremely tempting), a well-thought-out alien race with an evolutionary history that suits its strange environment, and also has one of my favorite science fiction characters, the great Pham Nuwen.It's not a perfect book by any means, though, despite my five-star rating.
And it's heavy at times on tech and jargon: This is not a book to hand to somebody who's never read SF before, or has only read a little, unless they also happen to be very well-versed in science.
This is a prequel of sorts to another of Vinge's Hugo Award-winning novels, A Fire Upon the Deep, although it can be read independently.
They're both good books, but I liked this one better.It's fascinating far-future hard science fiction with some unusual elements: humans have spread out into the galaxy but their technology does not include faster-than-light travel or anti-gravity.
This book tells the story of one such discovery as two clashing cultures rush to investigate and exploit the denizens of a remote and very unusual solar system.I admire Vinge's universe very much, and I really enjoyed this story.
Still, a very enjoyable book and I'll read more of Vinge's work.
It all came down to the spiders.One would think that an alien species evolving many, many light years from Earth would end up with a culture, history, and technological advancement utterly alien (pun intended) to what Earth spawned.
Almost the entire time we're in the heads of the spiders they feel completely human.
They even have a dominant nation grappling with a rival who is bankrupting themselves in an effort to come ahead in a nuclear arms race (Cold War).This was such a wasted opportunity for me.
“So High, So Low, So Many Things to Know” 🚀🌌The premise for this book is pretty spectacular: "After thousands of years searching, humans stand on the verge of first contact with an alien race. Two human groups: the Qeng Ho, a culture of free traders, and the Emergents, a ruthless society based on the technological enslavement of minds.◾The group that opens trade with the aliens will reap unimaginable riches. But first, both groups must wait at the aliens' very doorstep for their strange star to
But first, both groups must wait at the aliens' very doorstep for their strange star to relight and for their planet to reawaken, as it does every two hundred and fifty years....▪️Then, following terrible treachery, the Qeng Ho must fight for their freedom and for the lives of the unsuspecting innocents on the planet below, while the aliens themselves play a role unsuspected by the Qeng Ho and Emergents alike.▪️More than just a great science fiction adventure, A Deepness in the Sky is a universal drama of courage, self-discovery, and the redemptive power of love." (From the publisher)▪️Now, I have to admit, from my standpoint, when it comes to highly touted sci-fi with aliens with spider qualities, Adrian Tchaikovsky's Children of Time wins out against Deepness.
It's much too long but, it's a good read.My major complaint with the novel comes from Vinge's treatment of the alien Spiders.
There are significant differences between Spider and human society, yet Vinge downplays the alienness so much that it often seems that we are reading about just another human culture.
Perhaps it's my own fault for being an inattentive reader, but I missed any clues Vinge might have left as to the ultimate nature of the communication between the humans and Spiders.
Took me a while to get through this one, but it was never because I was bored. The prose is good, the characters are interesting, and there's a ton of great science fiction here. I did have some trouble keeping track of characters for the first couple of hundred pages (it's a long one), but that didn't hamper my enjoyment of it.
The concept behind the book was great, the characters were all developed well but the execution of the story itself flowed like mud through a sieve.
Just when things are beginning to flow, he goes and changes up either the perspective (Spider or Human) or the time frame (500 years in the past, back to the present then 1000 years in the past, then we jump 5 years into the future, etc.).
Overall it hurts the story and should have, IMO, been split into 2 titles (the human and spider perspective) or editorially streamlined by removing some of the character backstory and have them turned into novellas of their own.
