https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774057.Paradise_Wild
She kept saying and doing stupid shit over and over, only to be reminded (over and over) that Hawaii isn't the US and therefore the law is different there.
So much of the early post-arrival-in-Hawaii bickering crap between Corrinne and Jared was prompted by her tits aching or leaking and trying to keep said tits away from his scrutiny because she doesn't want him to know she's popped his sprog.
This book will forever be "The Leaky Tit Romance."Well, I guess I did go ahead and write a review.
I probably wouldn't like this book at all if it weren't for the scene where Corinne wants to reject her baby, but hears it crying and falls in love with her son.
Okay I know that sounds cheesy, but I've read this book more than once, and this scene gets me everytime.Jared is a hero that I wouldn't throw water on if he was on fire.
I think she did grow as a person, so I respected her for that.So I keep this book moreso to see how Corrine makes Jared look like the putz he is and for the poignant baby scene.
What woman on the face of this planet would marry the man who raped her?
And what father would sit there calmly while the man who just raped his virginal daughter laid out his plans to marry her?
Equally disgusting was Lindsey's placing the blame for Corinne's rape on Corinne.
Even her own father blames her for getting raped and then says, "Sure, son, you go ahead and marry her.
She repeatedly uses rape as a plot device to get a woman to fall in love with her hero.
Johanna Lindsey's treatment of rape is disgusting and she should have her woman card taken away.
Anoche estuve hasta las ¡¡4 de la madrugada!!
leyendo, hasta que lo terminé (si mi madre me llega a pillar...
Había olvidado lo que adoro a esta autora, y todas esas situaciones que nos suele ofrecer en sus historias que me dejan emocioná perdía.
La lagrimilla se me ha salido sola en varias ocasiones y el corazón se me ha puesto a mil por hora más de una vez ♥Desde luego ha sido una historia preciosa y junto a sus protagonistas, digna de recordar.
Nos transportamos a lugares exóticos y calurosos, a finales del siglo XIX y, en fin...
Que me ha encantado ♥

I enjoyed it even though the Hero and Heroine aanoyed me at times.There are a load of misunderstandings which all work out to a satisfying finish.The emotion is high and very dramatic.
Johanna Lindsey fills in the readers on the history of the politics of Hawaii-and if your like me who enjoys historical facts intertwined with the story, you'll like this.As much as I hate to admit it but...I really enjoyed this book-It kept my attention and kept me wondering if everything would be resolved in the end.The heroine,Corinne, was a bit of a pain-she thought highly of her self and didn't take into account the feelings of others.
A horrible old school romance with the obligatory "male lead raping the female lead".
There's the male lead & the female lead.
Corrine, the female lead, is a vain, spoiled, selfish "princess" with a gambling addiction.
Her character actually gets better later in the book.
He hits the female lead.
He's constantly emotionally abusive to the female lead.
This story goes from one emotional bit of angsty drama to the next.
Jared tells Corrine's father that he raped her & all the father can say is you ARE going to marry her right?
I remembered NOTHING about this book.
My very first romance novel ever! I think I was maybe 11 or 12 when I picked this up covertly on a vacation in Wildwood (with my babysitting money). I really liked this book at the time, but later read it and found it quite unrealistic. In any case, it holds a special place in my heart because it was my first!
Çevirisi felaket okuduğuma okuyacağıma bin pişman oldum bir de erkek karakter Jared'e uyuz oldum zaten yaptıklarından dolayı gerçi kızımız Corinne'de iyi pabuç değildi sevilecek yanıda pek yoktu ama Jared 1.liği aldı kesinlikle..
This story of Corinne, a Boston socialite, and Jared, a wealthy Hawaiian Islander, was a volatile one. He was bent on revenging the death of his mother by ruining Corinne's father who was indirectly responsible for her death. Little did he know how fiery and vengeful Corinne could be. The story traveled from Boston to Hawaii. That locale was as much a character in the story as anyone. Made me want to go back.I did tire from all the fighting and misunderstanding. But they finally worked it all out and the HEA was indeed a beautiful one.
Bintang 3Batas antara benci dan cinta itu setipis kulit ari.Satu hal positif hasil dari pembalasan dendam Jared adalah membuat Corinne membenci Jared sehingga obsesi itu dapat mengalahkan obsesi Corinne terhadap perjudian dan hasil akhirnya merubah keseluruhan karakter negatif Corinne menjadi pribadi yg lebih baik.Tak menganjurkan untuk mendendam pada siapapun apalagi melampiaskannya dengan cara menyakiti orang lain agar orang yg kita dendam tersakiti hatinya, karena akan menciptakan dendam dan sakit hati yg baru.Jared Burkett pria keturunan hawai, memiliki dendam pada Russel Barrows yg menyebabkan kehancuran rumahtangga kedua orangtuanya dan kematian ibunya.
Mulai bete waktu harus terjadi pemaksaan, lalu pernikahan yg tidak seharusnya, pengumuman pembatalan pernikahan yg dilakukan hero utk tujuan balas dendam dan keinginan dari heroine utk melakukan balas dendam balik ke heronya.Banyak hal yg tdk masuk akal di novel ini, satu adalah 1 tahun sembunyi di Hawai tapi hero&heroinenya tdk pernah bertemu, evenpun heroinenya bersembunyi minimal hero ya g diceritakan orang kaya di hawai tahu bahwa ada pendatang baru di pulau tsb.
Lalu bagaimana si Corinne "sekedar" menggoda laki-laki lain utk membalaskan dendam sedangkan Jared lansung berpikir kalo Corinne memang tidur dengan laki2 lain padahal dia sendiri tahu sikap Corinne memang spt itu.Yg jelas baca buku ini bikin capek, masalahnya tak kunjung berhenti.
Jared sebagai tokoh utama sangat kasar, cemburuan, curigaan, pendendam, penuh kebencian sampe dia segitu parahnya merkosa dan menampar Corrinne.
Karakter yg aneh utk dijadikan tokoh utama.
Untung JL mengemas ceritanya lumayan utk dibaca sehingga tetap gw beri rating #3 dan mampu membuat gw betah utk menyelesaikannya, jika tidak mungkin buku ini akan gw hina sebagai buku terburuk JL setelah "A Pirate's Love".
Satu lagi yang agak tidak cocok utk buku ini yaitu judulnya "Paradise Wild" sangat tidak cocok menggambarkan alur cerita yg ada, mungkin akan lebih cocok jika diberi judul "Revenge and Distrust" XD
I usually enjoy Johanna Lindsey's novels but I have to say this novel is by far the second worst book I've ever read.
I don't intend to ever pick this up and after reading most of the other reviews on here I think I'm making a wise decision of abandoning this now.
I completely hated the heroine and don't get me started on the "hero"...I think I'll go read one of Johanna Lindsey's better novels just to make myself forget about this one.
Did not think I would actually finish this one. Well if there's ever a contest for the most IDIOTIC historical romance, this one would come in first place! It's really very much of an unrealistic story with idiotic hero & heroine. This would be my 2nd novel by Johanna Lindsey after A PIRATE'S LOVE, to which I gave 3 stars. Anyways, I cannot imagine how young girls back in the 80s found novels like these worth reading. Which are Johanna Lindsey's better books??
I read this book when I was much younger and stupid enough to think rape could be romanticised at all. But no. Nopity nope. Jared Burkett is an evil pig. He raped Corinne, called her a whore and hit her. What the hell?! This is just gross. Rape is rape. It is not romantic. I am ashamed of myself for ever enjoying this book.
The only reason this book is two stars instead of one is because so many things were happening up and down that it held my interest. But Ms. Lindsey's style is terrible. Abrupt, simplistic, and definitely not for me. Once I started reading quickly though, it was much less bothersome and much more enjoyable to read the book. It was okay. Not much else to say.
I like almost all of Johanna Lindsey novels, so this colors my view a bit. This book was written in the early '80s, and it shows. Jared was probably Lindsey's worst hero ever. He's mean, cold, and abusive (with zero redemption). Even worse than Jared's rape of Corrine (to me) was how he hit her in the face! I found it unforgivable, so I was never satisfied with their HEA.
Never ending misunderstanding until the very last moment. So sick of the constant bickering and fighting of the main characters. Both the hero and heroine are jerks. His mistress and sister are no different. This book only gave me depression. So disappointed.
baru kali ini bc HR lokasinya di Hawaii...dan ada KRDT nya....jiiiaaahhhhh....paling anti deh ...
eeeehhhmmm... just say... I don't like the story... cape bacanya...
I didn't make it all the way through the book. The heroine was such a brat.
Never seen two people make a bigger mess of it!
çok değişikti..Jared son ana kadar sopalıktı...ama okunabilir ya..
One of my Favorite books. Definitely my favorite artist (author)
How the hell on earth would a lady forgive the man who raped her?, and why for heavens sake would Corinne and her little boy go back to Hawaii at that very silly stupid unworthy end call it their HOME instead of dear Boston?
To have the illision of Love, while it's only their animal instinct working at that very moment, making what ever happend Okey and what ever humiliation that comes ahead by it; solvable.Which drives me at the end to say that though Women had a hell of pride and honour, the smallest little fall will fuck their life for the rest of their existence (the rule of gravity)therefore, I HATE THIS BOOK ( for now )
untuk mewujudkan keinginannya itu dan untuk mendapatkan hak warisannya dari neneknya, ia mencari suami yang tidak memiliki pendirian dan akan menuruti apapun keinginan Corrie tanpa banyak bertanya dan melarangnya.Corrie telah memiliki calonnya untuk itu, sayang ayahnya tidak menyutujui calon Corrie dengan alasan yang sama dengan tujuan Corrie menikahi laki-laki itu tapi ayah Corrie menginginkan suami yang dapat 'mengatur' kebebasan Corrie.untuk membalas dendam atas pendorong kematian bunuh diri ibunya, Jared datang ke kota Corrie dan tak sengaja mulai tertarik pada Corrie saat ia tidak mengetahui bahwa Corrie adalah anak perempuan dari orang yang ingin ia balaskan dendamnya.dengan kesukaannya Corrie dengan judi dan tempatnya berjudi, membuat Jared berpikir seperti orang kebanyakan.
banyak rasa tidak percaya antar mereka yang membuat mereka harus sering salah paham.---------------------(maaf aku bahkan lupa bagaimana ceritanya setelah itu)yah pokoknya sayang sajalah dengan cerita kali ini.
Ayahnya yang sudah tahu kalau dia selama ini salah karena memanjakan Corinne ya diem aja, tapi tetep gak mau ngerestuin Russel sama Corinne.
Lalu Jared dateng dari Hawaii berpura2 sebagai pebisnis kaya yang pengen investasi di usahanya ayah Corinne.
Memang sih Jared berhasil investasi dan membuat Corinne jadi istrinya, walaupun caranya gak banget, tapi balas dendam Jared juga gagal (kesian kesian kesian...).
Lalu Jared kesel karena gagal balik ke Hawaii tapi sebelumnya bikin pengumuman di koran soal Corinne yang dipasang selama sebulan (beuu...
Pertama kali mau baca buku ini agak ragu juga sih...
masalahnya ada yang bilang banyak rape di buku ini (Trauma sama A pirate's love), tapi berhubung tergiur promo dastan yang murah..
akhirnya diambil jugalah buku ini...Pas baca, hm, lumayan juga ceritanya....
EMang sih ada rape juga, tapi bukan pure rape kayak di pirate love...
di buku ini, menurutku yah salah Corinne juga kali makanya dia bisa dirape...
eh pas ditagih bayar utang yah...
tapi semua bersumber pada rasa ketidakpercayaan terhadap pasangan masing-masing...Tapi yang bikin greget pengen cubitin Jared tuh, pas dia ga ngenalin anaknya sendiri...huff...
After all, cerita ini lumayan bagus, mengingat aslinya ni buku diterbitin 1981..^.^
Ekspektasi hasil dari membaca Blub dan perasaan yang didapatkan ketika selesai baca buku ini beda.Meskipun novel ini tidak mengecewakan juga.Cerita yang diangkat menarik meskipun agak membingungkan karena soal saham2an dan galangan Kapal di Boston vs usaha perhotelan di Hawaii.Menariknya lagi, ini buku historical romance pertama yang saya baca dimana kedua tokohnya itu tidak jauh cinta sampai mereka punya anak.
Maap spoiler.Temanya tentang kebencian dan balas dendam antara Jared dan Kolina (hahaha).Dua-duanya digambarkan "keras kepala" banget cocok dengan tema yang diangkat.Enggak tahu mengapa saya merasa jalan ceritanya agak "rough" dan kurang smooth.Meski pun begitu, buku ini berhasil 'memaksa' saya untuk membaca sampai habis dalam 1 hari.
Jadi bisa dibilang buku ini lumayan sukses bikin penasaran dan bikin mau ngikutin terus sampai tamat.
