https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262405.Prayer
Excellent book on prayer and one worth having on kindle for easy access. It didn't really clarify contemplative prayer for me, however ... well at least not very much. All the books I've read on the subject say pretty much the same things, none of which has been very helpful. Contemplative prayer is hard to describe because it is beyond words. Even attempting to journal an experience doesn't begin to capture the essence of the encounter. Yet it is important to try.<><><><&gt
All the books I've read on the subject say pretty much the same things, none of which has been very helpful.
Contemplative prayer is hard to describe because it is beyond words.
Yet it is important to try.<><><><><><><> Such things* cannot be proclaimed and propagated, however intense this “action” may be, unless they have been known in experience.
Unless a person has gone through these things in contemplation, he will be hampered by a kind of embarrassment, a kind of bad conscience, in speaking about them or even in trying to act accordingly.
This book is so profound that I will need to reread it several times to let its insights sink in. This is one of the more accessible books by Balthasar I have read. The most striking part of the book is when he talks about our being brought to heaven by Christ in things like the sacraments. His focus on contemplation, the tensions inherent in it, and the proper focus on it is deeply theological and practical. I highly recommend this book. This actually might be the best book of Balthasar's to begin with.
Excellent book.It is dense and took me almost a year to get through, but it was certainly worth it. While there were spells of dryness, I also found sections drenched in consolation.Not for light reading, but well worth the effort and time.
This is the best thing I have ever read on prayer and stands as a truly great work of integrated theology and spirituality. This is dense, deep and so very good. It deserves a better review than I have time to give it.
An incredible read! The richness of its theology and the depth of its devotional quality is unparalleled! My favorite book on prayer!!!
I've wanted to read this book for some time now. Finally arriving at it, I have not been disappointed. This is fabulous, and beautiful. At several points above my pay-grade, but overall touching and helpful. Four and a half stars from me.
Another master piece!
I read this book as part of my Lay Dominican studies. It is the first von Balthasar book I have read, and it was truly remarkable. Initially, because it was for study, I took notes about particularly beautiful passages. But after a while, I stopped with the notes and just treasured to the beautiful writing. One of my new favorites!
It is the second section that (rightly) grounds the book.Here is a taste of the rich language of von Balthasar: "Existence itself was only given to us for the sake of an even earlier and even more inconceivable purpose of God "before the foundation of the world" (Eph 1:3, ff); indeed, our existence as a whole is immersed in a far deeper sea, the bottomless ocean of the love of the Father who creates natures and laws as a foil for his miracles.
This book has some insights that with God's help, will change my life:"Penitence as the painful weaning from dependence on our faculties of sense and of the mind: they too must feel the polarizing effect of Christian life.
The same senses and powers cannot delight simultaneously or alternately in the divine and what is inimicable to the divine; they cannot aspire to become detached from what is ungodly simply through delight in what is godly."Thoughts like these are sprinkled every few pages in every single one of this author's books.
This book goes some way to explaining the source of these insights; anybody that prays this way can't help but be transformed...
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 16, as one of Eleven Books on Prayer, Belief, and Reflection.
OK...but obviously a theologian writing about mysticism.
I read and re-read this little volume. von B is dense and deep in his theological work, but here he's very moving.
What the purpose of prayer is!
Profound. One of my favorite Christian authors.
Brilliant!
I love this book!
This book is very deep. I take two days to read two lines!
A life book.
Loved this. Makes me want to read more of his work. Which I'm sure I will, especially at The Seattle School.
Awesome
