https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16150830-never-fade
I liked this so much more than the first book! I can't wait to see how it comes to a close with the last book.
Couldn't put it down! Suspenseful action packed and full of wonderfully lovable characters. Can't wait to release a discussion video... in late october? November? WHENEVER this baby get's released =)
(hide spoiler)] Spoilers below A quick recap:  The Darkest Minds  left off with Ruby erasing all memories of herself in Liam's brain.
The ending had me like in tears looking like this:I am not often shocked.
I was down to the last few pages, I knew what was going to happen but didn't want to accept it so I literally did this:I am  very  conflicted.
I hope this next book is as perfect as  The Darkest  minds was.
Drop a comment below about what you guys think is going to happen!
Me reading The Darkest Minds[image error]Me reading all the Liam scenes[image error]Me reaching the end of book 1[image error]Me patiently waiting for Book 2[image error]Yup....[image error]NOTE: Please check out my review for The Darkest Minds and tell me what you think of the book!
Holy shit.
This book surely ended on a cliffhanger!
But it was more of an in your face cliffhanger =) Ruby has joined the Children's League and the others in the first book are out on their own.
Ruby goes out on OPS with different groups to try and help some other kids that have talents like she does.
The kids in the book have different colored labels.
In the first book Ruby had a thing going with Liam but he is out of the picture for now because of reasons.
And then we always run into jerk kids that want to run things and be over other sweet kids and gah!!!!!!!
Pasan una cosa tras otra, volviéndose predecible.
Le dan una paliza tras otra.
Tiene el síndrome Celaena Sardotien: uno solo le da una paliza y luego ella sola puede sin esfuerzo vencer a varios.3.
No me creí el que Ruby le borrara la memoria a Liam y que luego con un simple beso el lo recordara todo.
5. El final tiene un cliff hanger horrible.6.
Por supuesto que voy a leer el tercer y último libro de la serie, pero estoy segura voy por el momento a darle unas pequeñas vacaciones a las distopias.✨✨✨✨I knew that.
However, Chubs is back in full throttle and he became my favorite character so far, I still have to read book 3 to see if it will remain that way.
The greatest new addition side character goes to Jude but I can't tell you anything about him since he appeared since the beginning of the book til the end and I don't want to spoil you, just know that there's a lot of humor coming from him and Chubs.There's more actions this time compared to before and yes, most of them occurred around the Powers the characters have.
“Sometimes you're the one speeding along in a panic, doing too much, not paying attention, wrecking things you don't mean to. And sometimes life just happens to you, and you can't dodge it. It crashes into you because it wants to see what you're made of.”  This book is AMAZING!!!! I could not stop reading it and there were so many things happening so I was never bored. This is really one of the best books I’ve read. Everything was perfect and the plot was so so good and throughout this whole bo
I was worried because I didn’t pick this book until a while after so I thought that was going to happen to me.
Then when I got 21% through and didn’t continue I was even more worried that I was going to hate it but I actually ended up loving this book so much.
There were a lot of new characters in this book.
Liam sadly wasn't in the book the whole time he was there for the last 60% I think.
There were a lot of new characters like Vida, Jude, Cole, and Nico.
In the first book, Ruby, as sixteen-year-old girl wanders about after breaking out from Thurmond (a rehabilitation facility) when she meets some kids from the League of Children, an organization leaded by a former politician, who wants to take down the current governor of the United States.
In the first book she's not able to control her powers all that well which is why when she touches the hand of a member of the League of Children, she sees his memory of killing two children mercilessly because he thought they were worthless.
I didn’t like that it came about as a result of Ruby’s stupid decisions, and the cliffhanger itself came from her Worst Decision Ever (view spoiler)[erasing Liam’s memory and aligning with the League (hide spoiler)], but it sure did intrigue me and had me highly anticipating the sequel -- I thought it opened up all kinds of doors to the story and I was excited to see where the author would take it.
Some other thoughts:Ruby and (view spoiler)[Chubs (hide spoiler)] -- one of the few things I liked in this book was their relationship.
Expected publication: October 2013October. October. OCTOBER?! So...far...away!! *cries* How can I deal with the pain of the cliffhanger for a FULL YEAR?!
DNFed at page 140.I liked The Darkest Minds, but it's been about a year since I read it.
I thought that I remembered how things ended, but I felt so lost getting into Never Fade.
I couldn't connect to the new characters and didn't know why Ruby was...
I think she has amazing premises but I always get lost in the descriptions.
I'm frustrated because I own the whole trilogy, but I've had them for like 3 years now and I just don't care about them anymore.
I may return to this series in the future, but right now I'm too frustrated and disinterested to continue.
Wow, you guys, just wow! Sometimes middle books have this thing called Second Book Syndrome – yeah, you know what I’m talking about – and you end up being totally disappointed. Such was NOT the case with this one! It was just as good as the first book. It blew me away!As I mentioned in my review of the In Time novella, Alexandra’s prose is very engaging. She has a way with words! She’s also a pro at characterization. All of the characters felt so real. Actually, I kinda wish they were, so we co
It’s funny, because she didn’t view herself in a very positive light – actually, in this book she struggles a bit with the darkness inside of her.
(It’s kind of embarrassing, really.) (view spoiler)[I was very surprised by how emotional I got when Ruby found Chubs!
(view spoiler)[I still want to know what the hell happened to Gabe!!!
(hide spoiler)] I’m almost afraid to read the last book!Favorite quotes:“Sometimes you’re the one speeding along in a panic, doing too much, not paying attention, wrecking things you don’t mean to.
I've stared at my phone for so long trying to work out how to describe my feelings on the plot and the characters.
My conclusion is I can honestly not write my feelings.
I just loved this book.
I loved the characters.
This book made me gasp, cry, laugh, and get mad along with the characters.
That's all I can say, I don't know why I'm incapable of writing reviews for the books in this series -- especially considering I usually start my review while I'm reading the book so I can put my feelings as I come across them, but for some reason I can't.
I will not be a bad person and ruin Never Fade, because that's not fair to Alexandra Bracken and all the anticipation she built and is still building leading up to the release of Never Fade, and also not fair to the people who actually don't like spoilers.
Questions that many people (including me) had/have about Never Fade:~Will Ruby find Liam?I am trusting you to use your common sense about what 512 pages could possibly be about.~Will Clancy reappear?
If you haven't read the Darkest Minds, I'm telling you to leave right now because SPOILERS.
Enjoyed this a bit more than the previous one.Wow, surprisingly, this book wasn't some fucked up road trip!I really enjoyed this one and imo it was a little better than the previous one.
I feel like we have a legit story to read in this one.
It was fun reading and I enjoyed it.※I just wish it wasn't so long.
I was bored at some parts and skimmed a couple of pages and some parts in the book just didn't hold my interest.Overall, it was okay, but I just wished it wasn't so long and was a bit more exciting.
I love this ragtag group of characters :) Ruby has joined with the Children's Leauge and that is where we meet Vida (blue), Jude (yellow) and Nico (green).
They'd be perfect together and really they could both use a little love in their lives.* 
Rubby sets out on a secret mission with Jude and later Vida and Chubs join the search to find Liam.
Liam was so lost and felt like something was missing and nothing was making any sense.
I love Liam's brother.
It was nice getting to know him better and like Liam, it was impossible not to like the guy.
I thought this book was even BETTER than the first... It was so, SO good. Can't wait to pick up the next novella and then In the Afterlight!Full Review on YouTube: https://youtu.be/w62RhbAwRIU
This was a pretty average read for me.I spent the majority of the time being super bored or wondering how any person could possible travel as much as these characters did.
The entire book was traveling.
Add in a handful of super close calls of being caught and then inevitably escaping, and you have the basic plot.I actually ended up skimming (skipping) almost a hundred pages and I found I was easily able to follow the story.
Why couldn't Ruby use her superpowers in more than select situations?
Last book they were trying to find the Slip Kid; this time it's Ruby & Chubs with some new kids looking for Liam.AND LESS PLOT HOLES!Indeed there were less glaring inconsistencies in the story and the dystopian world this time around - or maybe I'm just getting better at ignoring them.NEW SHIPS!Of course I'm talking about my love, Chubs, and my new idol, Vida.
Vida is the kind of person that laughs in the face of emotions and actively combats them with witty and mostly offensive remarks.
Or, as Liam puts it, Vida is "positively the whipped cream on the sundae of life."Then there's Chubs: high-strung, brilliant, control freak, loyal as hell.
3.75 STARS (if such a rating actually exists...) “Sometimes you’re the one speeding along in a panic, doing too much, not paying attention, wrecking things you don’t mean to. And sometimes life just happens to you, and you can’t dodge it. It crashes into you because it wants to see what you’re made of.” Okay, I need to ramble. Do you ever feel that you're somehow forced to continue reading a book just because you fell head over heels in love with its prequel? Like you need to finish the sequel t
Couple that with my need to finish any book once I've started it, and you have me reading any crappy sequel till the end (losing my free time in the process) even if I don't enjoy it.
Then there was the subtle sensation from the first chapters of info-dump due to the lapse in time from the end of TDM and the start of NF, like meeting the new characters in a matter of pages -- Jude, Nico, Vida, Cole, Alban -- and updating on the known ones such as Cate and Rob. Then the countless scenes with bloody fights from the earlier parts that painted the whole book in a dark, scary shade from which I couldn't completely extract myself from once I put the book down.
One of the main reasons of why I like this series is because of the characters.
The characters feel more realistic and I just want to grab them all out of the book!
Cate feels like a motherly figure who protects Ruby but I don't trust her too much for some reason...
But there isn't time for that but I am hoping they will talk and catch up with each other in the next book.
It was a fast read and by the time you finish this, you will NEED the next book...
I feel like the characters couldn't catch a break, especially Ruby.
Not that that's a bad thing!So, book one ends with Ruby joining the League.
well, we all know what happened at the end of book one.
I mean, we know he is there, but at the same time, so many things happen constantly, and Liam is a bit of an afterthought.
If you loved, liked, or enjoyed The Darkest Minds, then you'll enjoy this sequel.
So, read this book!Rating:4 stars - what a fantastic, solid sequel!
I loved all the characters, Ruby, Chubs, LIAM!
Even the new characters Jude and Vida were awesome, I loved them.
Her personality is just not one I'd personally get along with, but she is certainly a great character and I love when we eventually see her softer side, more in the third book though admittedly.
It was so heartbreaking in this one, Liam so close to dying, and then he was trying to say all that, but Ruby had wiped his memory of her and he couldn't remember her, but he still had the feeling of loving her and he didn't know why.
I am not okay.
At first I was so scared that he would form part of a love triangle, and took all of me not to like him for that.
I swear most of time I'm able to guess what's going to happen and I'm always like "I KNEW IT"; there's only one author with big plot twists that I can't guess.
First things first:(view spoiler)[I LOVED HIM SO MUCH.
ajsldjakljklsajksdAJSDJSAKAKSLJDKALSjakldkalaSJDLKAJALJAKLDAKLJDajskldjalsdI really don’t know what to think about (view spoiler)[the cure.
(hide spoiler)] I love their powers and I get sometimes they’re breaking Ruby, but maybe, just maybe she could learn to control them?
Ruby has left Liam, Charles and Zu behind in order to keep them safe and is now working with an anti-government group.
But with any group of people you meet in this book, who canyou really trust?
Just like in the first book in the series, Ruby is still working to harness her power to control other's minds, but here she's struggling much more with the moral dilemma of it all, which was a great addition.
Loved seeing some of the new characters, and the way this second book in the series ramped up the action and had some great new twists.
( BEWARE OF FEELS AND CURSES) I finished this book at around 3 am and I thought sleeping would help me process the shit that went down.
Characters: Liam: oh sweet baby jesus I love this boy so freaking much he can call me darlin whenever he wants.
UNLIKE RUBY WHO FREAKING TAKES HIS MEMORY AWAY BUT NOT HIS FEELINGS.
And at the end him trying to get back go Ruby and Chubs because getting out of HQ they just had to do it together!
He was shot but had to know if his family (ruby and liam) were safe.
After the shocking cliff-hanger The Darkest Minds left us readers on, Never Fade immediately throws us back into Alexandra Bracken's dystopian world, with our dangerous teenagers that hold Psi abilities.
But as for the new characters, Ruby meets a few new people--maybe not as amazing as Chubs, Zu and Liam but still plentiful in depth.
Alas, what killed it down to a 4 star read was two small elements; the pace and not-intricate enough plot.
The characters and world created by Alexandra Bracken were truly sensational.
