https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11260526-the-twilight-saga-breaking-dawn-part-1
In Twilight breaking dawn Bella and Edward gets married.
Bella then had to decide if she wants to be human or she wants to be a vampire.
She decides to be a vampire.
Her and Edward then go on their honeymoon.
While they're on their honeymoon Bella gets pregnant.
The baby was making Bella really weak.
There was nothing left Edward or anybody could do.
I like this book because it shows you real love.
I would recommend this book to anybody who likes romantic and horror.
If you do then this is the book for you.
This book was kind of what I expected - pretty pictures with some insight into the movie.
The pictures were great - especially ones that were from deleted scenes.
The pictures between Bella, Rosalie, and a despondent Edward were intriguing.I liked the latter half of the book better.
I give props to Bill Condon who clearly not only liked the books themselves, but enjoyed making them.
As a fan, I appreciate that.I would have preferred more interviews and quotes.
I would have liked some insight into more of the cast, the director, and the experts in wardrobe.
Sometimes you have to think would you be human and marry a vampire or be a vampire and marry another vampire.Well that's the situation Bella is in.As Bella was to get ready for her wedding Jacob her friend that was a wolf had met up with her.Bella had to choose if she wanted to be a warm blooded human or a cold blooded vampire she had a chance to have a baby but a good chance she could also die.
I think a connection between the book and another book would be twilight the first book because in both books Bella has to choose who to be with Edward or Jacob.Both books they have something the same that Bella has to do.
Full with beautiful photos, illustrations, information, interviews and details about how the story got transferred from the page to the big screen! It brought to me the exact same feelings that I had while I was reading the book and I was watching the movie for the first time. Twilight Saga is a book series that will stay in my heart forever, there is no doubt about that. If you are a fan of the books and the movies, this is a must have.
Great companion book to the movie, there are some excellent pictures in there, never before seen such as kristen stewart getting made up for her pregnancy scenes and showing her stand in which was a full sized doll of her looking terrible.Interview with Stephenie Meyer is also in there along with, tid bits from directors, producers and other people.
I loved this book! Before reading this, I saw Breaking Dawn in the theaters twice and when I went to see it for the third time with my mom, I found myself noticing special effects I learned from the book! I've collected all the other three movie companions and thoroughly enjoyed each one of them. It was interesting to learn how the makeup effects worked to make Bella look as gaunt and weak as she did in the movie when the baby was consuming all of Bella's essential nutrients. Props to everyone that contributed to making the movie a hit.
Bella and Edward have ... and the next morning she found out she was pregnant and at the end she had the child but she died the child was ok but after a day or more she woke up as a vampire
How do I read on this?please help me if your reading this I would really appreciate that thank you(:
My main issue with this companion is that is only covers part 1, and the part 2 companion was never published.
Considering some of the incredible scenes in part 2 such as Bella’s transformation into a vampire and the final battle scene it’s incredibly disappointing that there was never a companion covering this half of the film.
I’m not sure who made the decision not to publish the part 2 companion but it was a ridiculously unprofessional decision and it’s unfortunate they decided to let down the fans so spectacularly.
This companion guide was chalk full of tidbits about Breaking Dawn Pt.1’s production.
This companion was fun showing me both the story of what the actors and crew went through and how their knowledge and expertise shine throughout this movie.
If you have any interest in film or learning more about the Twilight Breaking Dawn production then this novel is a good place to get your feet wet.
I enjoyed this companion guide and will definitely pick up other one’s for other films and TV shows that I love.
Clearly explains about how the filming was done and how each section of locations and pictures were planned and why each actor and actress were chosen for the film and makes you feel like your more involved with the film I brought all the books for all the films and they are really perfectly detailed.
me gusto mucho y me gusto como salvaron su amor,enfrentaron a las personas que les hacian mucho daño y le doy un 10 y gracias a la creadora, de los libros por hacer relfexionar hacer de los libros
I was very disappointed about this book however I still love the writer and I certainly can't wait to get into another book of hers. I honestly prefer the other books written by this author. As much as I loved the series I wish truly that I had not read it.
I want to read
it is good
I love romances books like twilight
It is amazing it is so good that I read it over and over again if you see this book you should totally get it!!
Not the best writing, there are sudden changes to the moods that do not make sense.
Bought mostly for the glossy pictures, but it astounds me every time I read one of these books just how much effort and problem solving, and how many people, go into making any film!
Můj pohled na čtvrtý díl ságy byl už dosti skeptický a to se odrazilo i na vnímání filmového průvodce.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
yasss
Es un libro facil de digerir por su redacción sencilla, va dirigido a los y las chucas adolecentes de entre 15 a 20 años, la trama es interesante y no piedes dejar de leerlo
Easy read. Loved it for the imagination.
Altro capitolo del backstage dei film della saga, anche questo non poteva mancarmi e mi dispiace che non esista quello relativo all’ultimo film della serie, almeno io non ne ho notizia. Dettagli interessanti che non sapevo hanno reso la lettura stimolante e a un’appassionata della saga non posso che consigliarlo.
Enjoyed the books more than the films. Much more action.
If you like romantic adventures mixed with the supernatural, then you should read the fourth novel of The Twilight Saga("Breaking Dawn part 1") written by Stephenie Meyer and narrated by Bella Swan and Jacob Black.This adventure will take you to another world and you will not want to leave there.
The novel begins with the marriage of Bella Swan with Edward Cullen(vampire).
During the honeymoon Bella realizes that she is pregnant,but her pregnancy is not normal.This brings serious consequences for Bella, and even though Edward doesn't want the baby to born, Bella wishes to have her no matter what would happens to her.
Some of my favorites are: the wedding, while Bellas' pregnant and Edward and Carlisle are by her side, and the pictures showing how they made Bella look skinny and sickly.
I really enjoyed reading Stephenie Meyers' (the author) views on the movie and what it was like being a part of it all.
I'd love to know what Bella and Edward do next.
It was interesting reading about how they did the wedding scene and the inspiration.
The way they made Bella look sick, it looked so real in the movie.
I hope I haven't.
By far, the best twilight saga companion book ever!
As I was reading the book, i learnt that they dont actually use real werewolves, they use cut outs and then later on make it look like actual wolves on the computer.
As i continued reading and looking at the pictures, I wondered how they filmed such a hard movie like this, cause at the end it ended up SO GOOD!!!!!!!!
I cant wait for part 2!I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to know how they director filmed the scenes of the twilight saga: breaking dawn part 1
