https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24768.Pretties
What happens when perfection isn't good enough?  Undergoing the Pretty Operation - aka the mandated set of operations at age 16 designed to make everyone as beautiful as possible - was all that Tally ever dreamed of....Well, until (in typical YA fashion), she learns that her loving and kind government actually inserted lesions into the brain thus neutering the population.These lesions made Pretties incapable of anger, meanness and anything that required difficultly. Everything is "bubbly" and "
Undergoing the Pretty Operation - aka the mandated set of operations at age 16 designed to make everyone as beautiful as possible - was all that Tally ever dreamed of....Well, until (in typical YA fashion), she learns that her loving and kind government actually inserted lesions into the brain thus neutering the population.These lesions made Pretties incapable of anger, meanness and anything that required difficultly.
Tally Youngblood, despite being horrified at what was done to the Pretties, undergoes the operation herself.
I'm pretty disappointed with this book.
The last one was pretty good but this one...
They kept using this stupid pretty language that annoyed me to no end.
She is a "Pretty" sure, but she made some really stupid decisions.
and that's all i'm going to say on that subject.There's also the fact that Scott kept comparing her to a princess in a tower.
She completely left her old friends for some guy who didnt even really like her.
He only liked the fact that she was rebellious.
For what?Not a good book.
Here's what I wrote on my book club blog about Pretties, and the whole series: Westerfeld knows that he's writing to teens, so he's trying to address a LOT of issues that teens face.
It's harder to choose the book that I'll struggle through but that will make me think and maybe even change, or to turn off the tv when a couple of beautiful people are on the screen, no matter what kind of dumb things they're saying.
This book makes you think and hopefully can encourage some teens to think on their own and pull themselves away from all of the media that tries so hard to tell them what to think.
If I never hear the word "bubbly" again, I'll die happy.
(Tattoos as mutilation is a controversial thought, and I'm not sure I know where I stand with it - I mean, are some tattoos okay, but a body full of them not?
It's kind of weird.) But these teenage boys and girls - they look perfect, they've been surgically transformed into the universal pinnacle of beauty, and they're still starving or mutilating themselves in order to "wake up," to "feel it." It's a very dark aspect of this series, one I'd like to see addressed in further detail, if possible.I'm very excited to read the last installment in the series, Specials.
Just like "Uglies," "Pretties" is an entertaining read.
Tally's adventures continue as she becomes pretty and fights to regain her awareness.
The story moves fast and gets more intense in the third part of the book.
Like many mentioned before, the "pretty talk" gets annoying.
But I guess the author was trying to create a "pretty language" indicative of the slow pretty thinking...
I think this "something" is emotional depth and intensity of feeling.
There are some other authors (Suzanne Collins and Neal Shusterman, for example) who can convey emotions much better than Westerfeld, in my opinion.
Pretties picks up where Uglies left off, yes — but the main character’s memory has been tampered with and she can’t quite remember what happened in the first book, anyway.
Through the help of new friend Zane, Tally’s memory of her ugly past is reawakened.
Pretties concludes it a most cliff-hanging fashion, much as you’d expect the sandwiched part of a trilogy to be (think Star Wars or Lord of the Rings … isn’t the end of second part just about the most depressing, lowest point you can sink?).Obviously, I can’t wait to get my hands on the final book of the trilogy, Specials!
Apparently being pretty also means you use the words “bubbly” and “bogus.” Seriously?
I have to admit, every time Tally or Zane or Shay or anyone used the words “bubbly” and “bogus,” I rolled my eyes.
Which means I was rolling my eyes for ninety percent of this book.I was pretty disappointed with Pretties; there isn’t much plot difference between it and Uglies.
The only difference is Tally discovers how the cure David’s mother created at the end of Uglies works and the social experiment the doctors in Tally’s world run.
My friend Helen ranks the series as Specials, Uglies, Extras, and then Pretties, so I know I’m not alone.
My first completed novel for the #BookTubeAThon!
My thoughts on this book are simple:- I enjoyed it, but I don't think it comes close to matching how great Uglies was- The plot in the last around 100 pages was exciting, but the first 2/3rds of this book dragged and felt all-together unnecessary- The novel felt repetitive and redundant at several points- I feel like it's suffering from middle-book-syndromeI did enjoy it, like I said, but it just didn't capture me like the first one.
I will definitely be reading the next novel, and have a feeling it will be very action packed!
If I hear word bubbly one more time,I'll kill someone.This was boring as hell.The story is boring,actions of the characters are utterly boring and stupid,the ending is stupid as hell...I'm really disappointed.And there's suddenly a love triangle(really Scott,REALLY?)The only person I liked in this book was thankfully Tally.That's the only reason I'm giving this book 2 stars.She's really great.Everyone else...not so much.Shay is a freaking idiot and so is Peris.Zane seems like a decent guy,but I didn't really care for him through the book.But my BIGGEST problem is that idiotic Pretties slang.Bloody hell.I just couldn't stand reading word bogus anymore.(...šašavo i trulo?
Leaving aside the fact that all of a sudden Tally seems to know/remember a lot of things, despite the fact that she was pretty clueless about ancient history in the first book (and this is a big thing to "leave aside" because it annoyed the f*** out of me), why on earth would she automatically assume cooking was a crappy job?
Egad.My heart wants to give this book one star but my head (sick as it is with bronchitis germs) is going to give it two, for the few bits I liked (Shay and Zane and some of the other characters) and for the fact that I actually did finish it.But I will not be reading the third.****UDPATE:I am going to have to downgrade this to 1-star.
Pretties, while not a book without merit (if I were being more fair, I would probably give it 3 stars, story-wise) irked me a great deal more than Uglies (which I obviously liked well enough to read its sequel) because of what I consider some poor authorial decisions.
For a dystopia intending to critique the image-obsessed, beauty-myth-worshipping society in which we "pre-Rusties" live, Pretties has far too much backhanded endorsement of self-destructive behavior.
I understand that this can be viewed as the "false cure" (although it seems to work well enough for Tally) intended to speak to the reason those same behaviors are used in our own (less explicit) attack on teenage brains.
*Sing to the tune of Blank Space* "Reading this book felt like torture. Don't say I didn't say I didn't warn ya."Angst. The angst is everywhere. I tried with this book, I really did but the plot just got even more muddled after the Uglies. I could not stop myself from rolling my eyes and suppressing the urge to fling this book across the room every 5 minutes. Let's take a moment to look at this synopsis: Tally Youngblood is popular and Prettyville boyfriend Zane leads the Crims gang. But Croy
"Reading this book felt like torture.
Tally Youngblood is popular and Prettyville boyfriend Zane leads the Crims gang.
I don't even know anymore.Right off the bat you're thrust with this new "pretty" slang now that Tally has turned Pretty.
It felt as if he came out of nowhere and all of sudden Tally is dating him and how "bubbly making" he is.
(Even more than Tally.
:0) Shay is even more unbelievably annoying in this book that I literally skimmed her dialogue.
The fact that she suddenly turned into Tally's nemesis is preposterous.
It has to move the story forward, setting up things to come in the final installment, but it can't necessarily push things too far ahead for fear of losing audiences in the next installment."Pretties" picks up a few months after "Uglies" ended with Tally having undergone surgery and become pretty.
She is also developing a new love interest, who seems far more interested in the world outside than in the current situation.In order to recall their ugly, rebellious days, Tally and her new beau must stay "bubbly." During one of these times, Tally is contacted by her old friends, given her letter and given the means to reverse the surgery.
I enjoyed this more than Uglies – the characters actually had a bit of depth, the plot picked up tremendously and the action was nothing short of thrilling.
No.One thing I found really interesting was the way that the Pretties talked.
Their vocabulary was introduced in such a simple way, it's really easy to pick up and it just felt so natural that they should talk that way.
I think this is a crappy attempt to articulate what I mean, but read it and you'll see.Sadly this only reached a conclusion that was unsettlingly familiar… Like so many YA trilogies, this could've been condensed into one decently sized novel.
In fact, it was so awesome that despite reading it ten years ago, and reading almost 200 books every year since, she could remember everything.So she plucked Pretties off of her shelf and sat on a lounger in the middle of the garden on that sunny day, and only put it down once to make a strong black coffee.
She knows this and she could feel it happening but PRETTIES.So yeah, I picked this up yesterday, read it in two long sittings with only a break to make coffee in the middle, and I loved it just as much as I did when I first read it ten years ago.
If you take the first book and add some slight differences, annoying slang, a more unlikeable Tally, a complete assassination of Shay's character, and a forced love triangle, you basically have this book.The plot of Pretties really is very similar to the plot of Uglies.
(view spoiler)[ And the endings are very similar too, it looks like she's dragged back to the city again to be operated on again.
(hide spoiler)]All the hope I had for a decent female friendship between Tally and Shay is crushed.
She and Shay are back in BFF land and all is well with the world.Tally also meets Zane and insta-love is formed.
All thoughts of David are out the window now that Tally has Pretty brain.
To make a long boring-ass story short, Zane and Tally decide to run away from New Pretty Town and join The Smoke.
Page filler, anyone?They finally reconvene at The Smoke's new location where Tally sees David once again.
Tally, decides to stay with Zane, which means getting carted back to New Pretty Town.
At the end of the first book in this series, Uglies, I thought that it was the end of the world and that the next book couldn't possibly go the way I wanted it to go!
It's the end of the world!" was even more strong than it had been at the end of the first book and what I want is even more solid this time than what I wanted in Uglies was.
She doesn't want her mind to change, and when it does it seems like the end of the world, until she is used to it and her desires change.
Yet another thing that makes me feel like I'm one of the characters in the book.
I liked this book better than the first.
*shrug* Either way I liked it better.
I didn't much like how the rusties (being us) are considered stupid but then again in the 1900s people took tape worm pills to lose weight, we know better now.Anyways, getting to the book.
What I most liked about the book was the fact that she was going against the top dogs here and had to find all these sneaky ways to do it.
The love triangle isn't that big of an issue until near the end.
Congratulations Mr. Westerfeld, you managed to impress me, amaze me, and convince me to read the third book.
When I finished "Uglies" (the first book in the series), I was really impressed and looking forward to reading "Pretties".
New situations, new characters were introduced - and not just for the sake of trying to make the book seem different to its predecessor, these things occurred to drive the plot forward.
They slowly revealed that the author has a much bigger plan for this story, a story that he intends to unwind slowly.I am off to read book three - and this time I intend to be more patient while reading the first third!
Really enjoyable until Tally finds the (view spoiler)[ reservation out in the woods (hide spoiler)]It's a cool concept, but I'm ready to be finished with the series and move on. These books are so repetitive.
Peeta (from THG): Those two are probably the best written love-triangle I've read, but the problem is, similar to David, Peeta got the whole first book for everyone to fall in love with him, so when Gale (like Zane) comes into the next book, no one bothers to think he has a chance.Only, unlike Gale, Zane is a flat, boring character.
I just hope to see some actual development of the plot.EDIT: A few things I need to add:1: The Hunger Games is most CERTAINLY not centered around a love triangle.
2: This love triangle in Pretties is only similar to the pacing of THG's triangle.
I mean look at what we are doing to the planet that we live on.
I want to be bubbly and pretty if you know what I mean.And OMG!!!
I mean having a love triangle and dealing with what she did being ugly and what she did being pretty.
I mean Tally has some major problems to sort out.
I didn't want her to brake-up with Daivd, though.
I mean, he was there FIRST and he wanted to go to Tally but he couldn't.
If you want to hear more of my coments on Tally's world well then just wait 'til the next review.
I was going to give this 3 and a half stars because I found it to be a bit dull but when I actually 

I am a 40-something mom falling for YA fiction all over again. Pretties is not as fast-paced as Uglies, but this second installment in the series made me more emotionally involved overall, and made me care more for Tally and the other characters by the end of the book. Be patient with the slower parts--it will build soon and surpass your expectations. Scott Westerfeld is brilliant at creating this superficial world and characters, who have created their own future-language. The ending has the perfect cliffhanger, leaving you waiting for Specials...
For me the Uglies series are the most under-hyped books I have ever read. This is one of my all time favorite series right up there with Harry Potter, Throne of Glass and the Hunger Games. I first read the series in high school and on this re-read I feel it really stands the test of time!
The Writing and Worldbuilding It builds on the world Uglies established, expanding and giving insight into the behind the scenes of the society. (view spoiler)[I was annoyed with the whole ~love cures all~ thing, as well as aspects of the love triangle, as, at this point, they're very old tropes, but since this came out over ten years ago, before The Hunger Games even, I'll give it some free passes. The slight glorification of Zane's undernourishment and gaunt appearance wasn't okay, though. I
(view spoiler)[I was annoyed with the whole ~love cures all~ thing, as well as aspects of the love triangle, as, at this point, they're very old tropes, but since this came out over ten years ago, before The Hunger Games even, I'll give it some free passes.
I read this in almost one sitting and in less than 24 hours, so I think they gives a general idea of how engrossed I was in this, and how much I generally really liked it, but I didn't totally love it or anything.
To put it in pretty speech: It wasn't totally love-making (which sounds dirty, but I swear it isn't)
With vague flashbacks surging in her head, she remembers why she has agreed to be surgically altered, and now she and some members of her Pretty clique—the Crims—embark on a journey to escape from the controlling city….and to be cured.Apparently I enjoyed Pretties more than Uglies for several reasons.The themes that are explored in book 1 are continuously revisited, sometimes providing additional information that gives more light to the topics, answering questions I haven’t even formed when I was reading Uglies.Also, this time, I felt the characters more.
There are times where she treads lightly on the Mary Sue grounds, but maybe only it’s because she and a majority of characters in the book are beautiful—I’ve been a bit wary of very pretty characters since the first time I wrote fanfiction.
