https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48270.Leaven_of_Malice
That culture, alas (at least in Salterton, aka Kingston, Ontario, that most "British" of Canadian cities), combines all the stuffy fussiness of class conscious England from before the Great War (represented here by the pretensions of the elderly ladies who try to control town social life) and the most shallow, banal of trends copied from our neighbours to the south (the standard-bearers of which are the pseudo-psychologist husband-and-social-worker-wife duo Norm and Dutchy Yarrow, who attempt to make stodgy Salterton relevant, "normal" and 'up-to-date').The plot centres around a foolishly livid and officious megalomaniac of a father, Professor (of Classics) Vambrace, who is attempting to sue the Town newspaper over its publication of an erroneous engagement notice between his daughter Pearl and one Solly Bridgetower, son of one of the aforementioned wealthy busybodies, but as I see it the novel is largely an excuse for Davies to interrogate some pet concerns, the first of which is one that will become much more central to the second trilogy: the deep, abiding mysteries of the human psyche.
This may be Davies' best work, but I don't know yet.
It's as good as, if not better than, "Fifth Business," though it comes in the middle of a trilogy instead of at the beginning.
On its own, it is funny and engaging, but when mixed with "Tempest-tost," it is positively brilliant.The story begins with a newspaper editor, always a plus to a reader who has, for better or worse, made her career in the news business.
What I can say is that with this tome, Davies has ensured himself a permanent place on my list of the top five best writers of all time.
Наверное, неправа я все-таки, поставив 4, потому что в определённой степени это ещё один идеальный театральный роман Робертсона Дэвиса, где интрига и сюжет выстроены ровно по законам комической оперы, где есть и фарс, и танцы, и фокусы с переодеванием, и обязательная любовная мелодрама, и оскорбленный отец, таскающий за ухо непослушную дочь, и, разумеется, великолепные монологи и авансцены. Характерные персонажи Дэвиса – это, пожалуй, лучшее, что могла предложить нам литература после Диккенса, а финал осчастливит каждого любителя классической литературы – и оперы, заодно.
I confess when I voted for this option in book club, I thought the title indicated something far more dark a sinister. Pleasantly surprising however, was that Leaven presents a funny take on community gossip and interactions, as once both biting and heart-warming. The book was a lot of fun, because it was a club book I dived straight into it (its technically the 2nd book in a trilogy) but I imagine it would be even better having read the 1st.
Davies throughout the book, either through Ridley’s eyes or those of other characters or through the narrative brings an absolutely impish sense of humor to bear on these people whom he knows well.
However, it is also very clear that while the humor is devastating in depicting the characters, Davies had great affection for all except perhaps one of them.
One of the great joys of reading Davies is his elegant prose.
The result is refreshing, the English language at its best and most accessible.It’s not necessary to read the first book to enjoy this, the second.Highly recommended.
Aunque en realidad esta intriga es lo de menos, porque lo interesante reside, como ya sucedió en la primera novela de la trilogía, y como es habitual en Davies, en los personajes que nos presenta, algunos ya conocidos (Solly, Pear, el profesor Vambrace, la señora Bridgetower, el organista Cobbler) y otros nuevos (Gloster Ridley, director del Evening Bellman, Shillito, Higgin).A través de las tramas cruzadas y de la fina ironía de que hace alarde Davies, entramos en conocimiento de los aspectos religiosos, el mundo de la abogacía, el periodístico, así como de los cotilleos que se cuecen en torno a todos los personajes, sin faltar escenas divertidas y disparatadas.De nuevo he disfrutado muchísimo con esta novela de Davies.
I can't believe that a book about practically nothing can be so entertaining. I think I loved every character no matter how ridiculous, which might owe something to the fact that I think I've met people just like all the ones in this book. It is a story filled with the hypocrites, prejudices and gossip of a small town and how could you not love the happy ending.
Very much enjoying this trilogy. Davies is a master at setting up humorous situations, unless he is creating poignant and moving scenes. This is an author who loves and cares about his characters ( much like Anthony Trollope, to whom he is compared), and so the reader cares about them too. This author is funny and wise, a perfect combination. It is also one of the best plots I’ve read in ages.
Leer una novela de Robertson Davies es siempre un gran placer para mí, el estilo de este magnífico narrador te estimula, te divierte y te abre, milagrosamente, nuevos campos de conocimiento, sin perder el gran sentido del humor que transmite en todas sus páginas.
La capacidad de crear personajes interesantes, la curiosidad que te despierta por la acción, todo es una delicia aunque la historia no tenga mucho desarrollo.
Si quieren leer una historia divertida por el simple gusto por lo bien escrito, no dejen de leer a Davies.
¡Qué maravilla! Me ha gustado mucho más que "A merced de la tempestad". Regresa al pueblecito de Salterton y retoma a algunos de los personajes del primer libro (aunque ambos son completamente independientes), y narra una historia mucho más tierna y con una carga todavía mayor de ironía y humor. Un reflejo en la Canadá de mediados del siglo XX de ese costumbrismo del XIX que tanto me gusta. Me muero de ganas por leer el siguiente libro ambientado en Salterton y continuar con las otras trilogías del autor.
Highly enjoyable! A friend's review says it's a great book about nothing at all, and that's pretty accurate. How does Davies pull it off? This might be even better than Tempest-Tost, the first book in the trilogy. It is more contained and tight, at least, like some kind of fancy decorative knot that you realize is made up of one piece of cord. He's doing nothing fancy or genre bending, but the damn thing is magic. (And NOT magical realism, just really really got novel writing.)
The plot is well-constructed and funny all the way through, but here were my favorite scenes:- Ridley confronting the old buffoon writer Swithin Shilito ("What about the barber’s chair; might there not be a few buttocks for Shillito?")- Professor Vambrace acting like a detective to track down Ridley's residence, for legal research purposes- the aggressively forced humor of the party that Yarrow the psychologist throws- Solly Bridgetower making fun of Heavysege, the Important Writer he's supposed to write a thesis on- the final confrontation at the end, leading to the revelation of the mischief-maker's identityAnd you have to resist the temptation to quote endlessly, but here were some of my favorite lines:"This was, perhaps, the voice of the people, and the voice of the people, no editor is ever permitted to forget, is the voice of God. It was a pity, he reflected, that God's utterances needed such a lot of editorial revision.""Mr. Shillito loved to watch people reading what he had written, and as he did so he would smile, grunt appreciatively, nod and in other ways indicate enjoyment and admiration until all but the strongest were forced by a kind of spiritual pressure to follow his lead.
Of all the Robertson Davies novels, Leaven of Malice is my absolute favourite, which is to say, Leaven is my favourite novel by my shortlist of favourite novelists.
I have read this novel multiple times and still appreciate anew how Davies is able to create a town's worth of characters, a story, a problem, a resolution, and a finale in a tight frame of elegant phrases.
Each of Davies' many characters is sketched in a few slashing sentences so that you are both informed and sympathetic to his/her problems as the story evolves.
Reading Davies is like a masterclass in the art of writing.
This is one of the most delightful books I've EVER read.
If you are any of: a pseudo-intellectual, journalist, paper reader, writer, small town person, lover of love, lover of wit, lover of autumn--hell, even a rom-com fan-- I can go on on and on about the many people who would love this book, too, then read it now!!
This book will cure all that ails you!
"Surprised by joy, impatient as the wind." Hell, now I start to sermonize..
Anyway, this book is a MUST, all your good goodreads'ers!
Just finished listening to this one on tape.
I had heard about this author before, but I wasn't familiar with any of his books until I got this one from the library.
It didn't disappoint!Someone decides to insert a false engagement notice in the newspaper, announcing the upcoming wedding between Pearl Vambrace and Professor Solomon Bridgetower on November 31.
The newspaper runs the announcement and then finds itself in the middle of an uproar.
The plot contains elements of Romeo and Juliet, with more than a bit of The Tempest thrown in.
Much funnier than the plot sounds.
Worth looking for!
I thought Tempest Tost was amusing. Leaven of Malice was hilarious!
I bought the Salterton Trilogy as a set on my Kindle, so it was a natural flow in to book two once Tempest-Tost was done.
I was surprised that a story with fairly adult themes (suggestions of incest and adultery, alongside the quaint notions of engagement announcements) was part of our school curriculum; this story seemed quite advanced for our parochial Grade 11 minds.
In any event, I enjoyed again being immersed in the wry humour, familiar characters, and quaint Canadian-isms that are Davies' specialty, although some characters seemed a bit too large (ex.
Professor Vambrance) and the situations a bit far-fetched to be as believable as they were in Tempest-Tost.
I do wish I hadn't waited so long to read the first trilogy by Davies. I enjoyed his other, later, novels so much that I set aside the Salterton trio "for a rainy day." That gloomy "day" has arrived but Davies, in this series, is not the antidote I hoped. I find something mean and small and smug in Robertson's view of this society he has both created and commented on. If I recall correctly, if time hasn't blunted or blurred my recall, his later novels are generous and kind and open to peculiarities in ways that Salterton just isn't.
Davies is an elegant writer whose assured handling of characters is a joy to behold. He understands the frailties of people so well and plays them out in his wonderfully imagined world. Leaven of Malice is a simple story beautifully told with a cast of individuals who all have their tale to tell. There is great wit throughout the book but also much wisdom about human nature. A lovely classic comedy. It has the feel of a 50s movie.
Hilarious--wonderful book!
Brilliant. As ever.
Even better than Tempest-Tost, the first in the series.
(Dug review out of the depths of LiveJournal.)The ending is too expected to follow Tempest-Tost well. Still funny and sometimes note perfect, but then the predictability strikes.
This wasn't my favorite of Robertson Davies' works...it took a while to get moving and I was completely indifferent about continuing with it until around page ninety when he described Pearl's private pleasurefest.
That, my friend, was hilarious.There were other funny parts of the book to follow.
The main plot line was a bit incomprehensible to me since the values that drove characters seemed rather far-fetched, but overall, things became entertaining.As always, Robertson has some sharp and often uncomplimentary observations about human motivations that are frighteningly accurate.
There are some choice bits in here, which is why I go prospecting through his novels every now and again.
This second in Davies' trilogy set in Salterton Ontario uses his newspaper background as a foundation.
That should have caught the clerk's eye if nothing else did but it didn't and everyone is in hysterics over the insult and dishonor to themselves, everyone but the two young people concerned, Solly Hightower and Pearl Vambrace, both of whom we met as actors in Tempest Tost.
Vambrace is prepared to sue the paper, the editor, the clerk for everything they've got, the editor is sure something will happen to ease the situation, everyone's lawyer is rubbing greedy hands in glee and the two young people are determined to straighten things out, even if it takes a long time and they have to get past quite a bit of name calling.
Love the writing in the book, as I did the first in this trilogy.
The characters are finely drawn, with humour and understanding.I'm going to gripe about the introduction to all three books, however.
I found quite a few inaccuracies with regard to the first book.
Perhaps it had been quite some time between when Margaret MacMillan read the book and wrote the introduction.
This was assigned reading for a Post-War Canadian Literature class in college.
I recall disliking it intensely, perhaps not even reading it completely.
Since then I've read two Robertson Davies trilogies which I enjoyed enormously.
As I need to reread a title for the BookBingoNW challenge, I thought tackling a book I remember disliking might prove interesting.
Edit: now that I've finished the book, I'm positive that I skipped this required title, which may account for the B- I earned in that class.
I probably wouldn't have appreciated Davies' style, but I love it now.
Bookbingonw - reread, prizewinner (Winner of the Leacock Award for Humor)
Robertson takes us back to Salterton some four years after Tempest-Tost, where someone has placed a false engagement notice about Pearl Vambrace and Solomon Bridgetower in the paper.
Everyone in town seems to be affected by the hubbub created and we get to eavesdrop upon conversation after conversation (accompanied by Davies' delightful and witty commentary) as the overlapping ripples spread out and reflect back on each other.
All of the characters are human and flawed, but Davies loves them anyway and we do too.
With the dean's speech on malice at the climax, Davies takes another step toward the mythical and philosophical atmosphere of his later trilogies.
Goodness, I love Davies.
I wasn't a huge fan of the first book in this trilogy, though I definitely enjoyed it, and so I put off reading the second one for a long time.
I totally agree with other reviewers who have said that it's just as good, if not better, than Fifth Business.
I love the way Davies describes his characters--how they all have flaws, but are still interesting and relatable.
Davies really had a talent for writing entire books about tiny events and the ripples those events cause and making them fascinating.
I'm very much enjoying working my way through pretty much everything he ever wrote.
"lesser moustaches, equally white, thick and sweeping, served him for eyebrows""How do we know that God likes his house to be damned full?
Nobody seems to think that God might like a good time, now and then.""Vambrace experienced that sensation of bereavement which so often comes to a man who seeks professional assistance with a grievance, and shortly finds that his grievance is no longer his own personal property, and that much of the flavour has gone out of it.""Music is a serious business.
