https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16895.Collected_Essays_and_Poems
When we reflected that this was not a solitary phenomenon, never to happen again, but that it would happen forever and ever an infinite number of evenings, and cheer and reassure the latest child that walked there, it was more glorious still."...so we saunter [which comes from the phrase "holy walker"] toward the Holy Land, till one day the sun shall shine more brightly than ever he has done, shall perchance shine into our minds and hearts, and light up our whole lives with a great awakening light, as warm and serene and golden as on a bank-side in autumn."------------------------------In Civil Disobedience, what is important to Thoreau is the individual's ability to be an individual.
Coming from the hurrahing mob and the rattling carriages, we pushed aside the listed door of this church, and found ourselves instantly in an atmosphere which might be sacred to thought and religion, if one had any.
It was a great cave in the midst of a city; and what were the altars and the tinsel but the sparkling stalactics, into which you entered in a moment, and where the still atmosphere and the sombre light disposed to serious and profitable thought?
While my reading was focused on Walden, I found that his account is merely of another man, and therefore loaded with his own biases, contradictions, convoluted and flowery ideas and almost pointless scenes so panned out that they become a sight that slowly lulls you to sleep.
As his contemporary, Ralph Waldo Emerson, put it "“Life is a journey, not a destination.” I immediately wanted to throw it down half-way through the first essay Economy, and again when I got to Reading.
When Thoreau stated that we should only reading the classics and in Latin nonetheless.
However, I read Walden as a journey more than a manifesto.
Walking is the most therapeutic and eerily familiar essays I have ever read. It hovers over me every afternoon while I walk my dogs for as long as I am able. I can't say I relate to and love every piece in this book, partly because some have not stuck with me and partly because I have not read the book all the way through.
As relevant today as ever.

Many of Thoreau’s essays were lectures first, and retain an exacerbating amount of rhetorical flourish that probably sounded better than it reads.
After reading “Civil Disobedience,” I felt as if I’d attended a populist gathering, of the “tea party” sort currently infesting the U.S.; a shame, since Thoreau’s often firebrand rhetoric turns his subject against the issue it should address: the right of the people to protest their government for better, not less, government.
Thoreau’s subjectivity is better suited for his travel & nature essays; in particular “Walking,” which delivers a stark, but not overbearing, reminder of how much of nature we’ve lost, and what we’ve lost because of it.
the poems are not so good!the essay on winter is marvelous crazy. i like to imagine he just walks up to me one day on the street and starts talking to me about ice.
Thoreau's poetry deserves better than the obscurity to which it has been relegated.His prose has the beauty and density of poetry. Civil Disobedience is, of course, a masterpiece.
