https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23936196-the-unique-hamlet
Good quick readI thought this book would be a little longer but I enjoyed it. It was a quick read and great if waiting for the bus or doctor appointment.
An interesting addition to Sherlockian lore.
To be honest for me no one will ever surpass The Arthur Conan Doyle stories of Sherlock Holmes While imitation is the sincerest form of flattery an imitator will never surpass a creator.  Don't misunderstand I've read some very good Sherlock Holmes tales over the years but this particular short story misses the target while a very promising premise I found it didn't quite capture the atmosphere of Victorian England well or the essence of intrigue needed for a Sherlock Holmes adventure.The dialogue was not as crisp or lively either.Although it's Good enough to kill a few minutes of boredom
True to the canonMany times someone else has attempted to bring a literary figure to life on the written page to continue that figure's adventures. Most don't live up to the character, however this not the case in this story. I was able to figure out whodunit, but I wasn't sure if the reason for it. But Holmes was able to bring the why to light and the who along with it. If you like Sherlock Holmes and who doesn't, then try this short story on for size. I think you well like it.
One Error.Great book ,full of all things Sherlockian. I enjoyed the storyline at it's rapid pace. Nobly done. One thing I noticed in the first paragraph was " looking out a bay window. After all the time I read as much Sherlock Holmes by Conan Doyle ,and other various authors, there was never any reference to having a bay window.
This short story (literally took me 20 minutes to read) was a delightful little Sherlock Holmes story. It wasn't written by Arthur Conan Doyle, so it's a little bit of an imitation. But nonetheless fun to read. Points off for not being original and a little bit trite of an ending.
A fair to middling pastiche. If you're looking for a quick Holmes fix, this will suffice.
it was a fun read short but fun
This story didn't have the same tension and anticipation as what I expect from a Holmes story. I was able to figure out the entire thing after just a few pages, which was disappointing.
"Surely you must know that in criminal cases handled by me, it is never the obvious solution that is the correct one".As a Arthur Conan Doyle afficianado, I know most of the books/stories about Holmes are quite flattering to his originator. This is the case here. Holmes, being Holmes, gets down and dirty to figure out the case. And, it's another score for Open Road Media who should be thanked for taking early OCR'd books and making them readable once again.
Three starsI almost gave it 3 stars because it is brief and obvious. I expect Sherlock stories to be more mysterious and subtle.
This was a rather short story but enjoyable and I thought the author was very true to the iconic character Sherlock Holmes and his side kick Dr. Watson. An easy read but very entertaining.
Pretty good mystery plot with an interesting twist including Shakespeare. Makes you wonder who your friends really are. I read this in a single sitting.
A nice little short story, with tongue planted firmly in cheek.
Super fun read for Sherlock Holmes's birthday. Holmes + rare manuscript theft + Hamlet... What is not to love?
Silly pastiche.
Great example of a very nice pastiche ;-) loved it!
This has just about all you could want from a pastiche, which is fitting since it's the first true pastiche of Sherlock Holmes. I hope Conan Doyle liked it when he received his copy from Starrett.
Not half bad. Matter of fact, it's definitely one of the better Sherlock remakes.
