https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10127019-the-lean-startup
[...] We really had customers, often talked to them and did not do what they said." [page 4] On page 8, Eric Ries explains that the lean startup method helps entrepreneurs "under conditions of extreme uncertainty" with a "new kind of management" by "testing each element of their vision", and "learn whether to pivot or persevere" using a "feedback loop".This is he Build-Measure-Learn process.
A startup must be managed".The main and most convincing lesson from Ries is that because start-ups face a lot of uncertainty, they should test, experiment, learn from the right or wrong hypotheses as early and as often as possible.
I'm currently starting a new church as well as helping my wife run a bow tie business.
We accidentally did this with our bow tie biz, and are intentionally doing it with the church.
We're trying to do this in both the bow tie biz and with the church: word-of-mouth viral marketing and social media are about the only way we've drawn people to either 'product'.
We're doing consistent minor tweaks with the church and the bow biz rather than working hard at one "big launch".
As Ries readily admits in the Epilogue, the theories and frameworks promoted in this book have the danger of being used retroactively to justify what you did in the past, or what you've already decided that you want to do, no matter your industry.
Its success no doubt has to do with its take control of your chaotic reality self-help vibe.What's most important in this book is not the snappily named tools (MVP, Concierge, pivot, Build-Measure-Learn) but Ries's less sexy advice, like:
"Remember if we're building something that nobody wants, it doesn't much matter if we're doing it on time and on budget."
"Customers don't care how much time something takes to build.

Unfortunately that feeling accompanied me until the end of the book.Don't get me wrong, this book contains a lot of useful ideas if you are into entepreneurship: the build-measure-lean cycle driven by the knowledge you want to acquire, validated learning, treating everything as en experiment with its corresponding actionable metrics...
The only points that are fully developed are the pivot types and the possible engines of growth.So after finishing the book I'm left with the feeling that, while now I have some sound guides to use, there's a lot of information I must research out there.
This book seems like a portfolio of the author's work with a few sexy add ins like Facebook for effect.
That's really what the book is saying: it's saying, screw your original brilliant idea.
But his delivery only confirmed my sense from the book: a lot of people are going to be turned off by his baby face matched with his know-it-all tone.
Some businesses can't adjust on the fly without significant destruction.Now, with all those caveats, I will have to admit that I will be (perhaps more humbly) applying some of the ideas I found in this book.
It's pretty rare for me, after finishing a book, to not be able to imagine my life not having read it.
In business -- and in life -- we always have simple goals, like: I want to make more money.It's easy to focus our motivation on making more money.
How do I learn that?It seems blatantly intuitive in hindsight, but this book really opened my eyes to it.At the core of Eric Ries's message is this: Business and products are far too often founded on assumptions.
We spend a lot of time trying to build the optimal product, and then -- after it's finished -- we offer it to customers.
But I like what it did to my thinking, even though I was familiar with many of the concepts in the book already.
There are some really wonderful simple quotes too:"management is human systems engineering.""Our productive capacity greatly exceeds our ability to know what to build."The latter was from the last chapter, which was my favorite.
Ries gets a little existential about the raison d'etre of business and building things.
And this might sound a bit precious out of context, but it did get me quite excited: "What is needed is a massive project to discover how to unlock the vast stores of potential that are hidden in plain sight in our modern workforce.
After initially giving this 3 stars I had to go back and give this 4 Stars. This book is amazing for those starting a company, those who already own a company and those thinking about making that move. Beware, this book is better in practice than in theory. If you consider yourself an entrepreneur and are willing to put the principles into practice, then it's worth reading.
Assigned reading from my job, last minute, in preparation for a meeting.
I managed it, and while I thought it made a lot of sense in terms of concepts and ideas, and parts of it were very interesting, the writing sucked all of the joy out of it.
The first third of the book repetitively repeated stuff by saying it many times, often mirroring previously said things but slightly differently, but...
but this is an idea and concept book, so your mileage may vary.
don't let the 2 star rating put you off if you're interested in entrepreneurial reading material.
Kể từ lần đọc đầu tiên cho đến giờ, chưa bao giờ cuốn “The Lean Startup” (Khởi nghiệp Tinh gọn) không nằm trong danh sách “phải đọc” mà tôi khuyến cáo đối với người học tập và thực hành Lean\Agile.Đây là cuốn sách được đánh giá rất cao bởi rất nhiều người thuộc nhiều lĩnh vực khác nhau: doanh nhân, nhà quản trị, lập trình viên, nhà giáo… Một cuốn sách hiếm thấy có được sự hòa trộn tài tình giữa kĩ thuật thực hành rất thực dụng với những ý tưởng đột phá về khởi nghiệp và kinh doanh.
I loved the ethos that Eric shares...When a new employee makes a mistake: "SHame on us for making it easy for you to fail." That type of accountability doesn't exist, we have a "punish the risk taker" ethos throughout all levels of education, government and law that is making people that have the balls to experiment into outcasts.That lack of experiment, you must react to every utterance of your bosses and you don't have latitude to try things stinks.
I have failed more than I have succeeded.
I try hard to make sure that the crap winds up in the wastebasket."
As long as it is a team building a product with high uncertainty, it is a startup.Eric puts a huge emphasis on "validated learning" as opposed to "failure as a way of learning." He says, "a failure to deliver results is due to either a failure to plan adequately or a failure to execute properly." He's all about accountability, which is sorely lacking in so many institutions these day, with the most egregious being Wall Street.Eric goes on to explain the principles of the lean startup with andecodotes of successes and failures in business.
He goes straight to the point with stories from his own and from others that he has interacted with.
Now some parts of this book aren't the easiest to understand if you have never tried to run a business.
This book is a perfect guide how to create a successful startup and maintain it.
This book will teach you not to get stuck one one thing and to open your mind about your startup.
Overall this book was a very good read it feels that at times is a little repetitive, but it help me to realize what actually goes into creating a successful business.
Những trải nghiệm của Eric Ries và những gì ông rút ra được tóm gọn lại trong một "process", mà không chỉ áp dụng được cho giới khởi nghiệp, mà còn có thể áp dụng cho những công ty đã lớn.
Best book for start-ups.
Start-ups should develop Build-Measure-Feedback loop.
Companies should develop a MVP to test market hypotheses.
A MVP (minimum value product) is a product that lacks some feature because it is developed in a short time with less effort.
With MVP, start-ups can see customers' reaction to the product.
Start-ups must test the riskiest assumption first.3.
Cohort analysis, which studies the behavior of independent customer segments to a product, is proven to be more meaningful than other forms of line graphs.4.
Vanity metrics waste your time in satisfying yourself without bringing any meaningful analysis.
It's a good book, and if everyone read and understood it I'm sure companies would be far more efficient at innovating.
I felt some of the messages could have been made clearer by improving the style of the book.
Having said all that the two main messages of the book are excellent.
Test your hypothesis and avoid wasting time - don't spend ages building something only to find out you've built the wrong thing.
Time spent deliberating what to do is better spent trying, testing and trying again.
Although I've heard of the basics concepts like the Minimal Viable Product and the benefits of quick iterations, reading about the methodology in detail provided a lot more context to these concepts and helped me gave me the tools that I can use to put these concepts to action.The biggest epiphany I got from reading this book was Finding the Need.
Even though this short phrase has been repeated over and over, this book drilled down to the core of finding the need.
I'd recommend this as a must read for anyone who wants to take on responsibility.
It tells businesses, and especially startups, how to start small and simple, then grow through learning, testing, measuring, and rapidly innovating.
Although not all the specific methods of the Lean Startup directly apply to my business, many of the general concepts do.
Also, a few of my clients are startups, so it’s good for me to be familiar with Lean Startup theory and practice.I read this book because I saw it mentioned in several Startup West Michigan events.

This was very readable for a business book. The main point is to use the scientific method and test hypotheses instead of making assumptions. I agree but that’s not a shocking new idea. The plus value is his exploration of the human factors that derail rational testing in business organizations. He offers detailed instructions for overcoming those obstacles. So this seems promising, but in the spirit of the author’s message, I won’t just assume that his advice leads to sustained positive change.
Much better book than I expected. Eric explains his mindset and his approach to product development and how to run a start-up, and he makes TOTAL sense. I thought I knew concepts like validated learning & continuous deployment, but reading through this book really solidifies these ideas in my head. These insights are really impressive and I'm hoping I can apply some of the ideas in my next startup.
Building block for entrepreneurs. Simple concepts with high applicability.
Các chương đầu từ 1 đến 6 vẫn có lòng vòng trong nội dung của vòng lặp học hỏi => xây dựng => đo lường, lặp lại các câu "muốn sản phẩm thành công phải tăng số vòng lặp, chấp nhận rủi ro và học hỏi nhiều hơn"...Lanh quanh mải hết chương 6, sách mới viết khá hơn một chút, đưa ra thêm nhiều tools cho entrepreneuer mà cái này mới là cái người đọc cần chứ mình có cần hiểu quái gì về tác dụng của vòng lặp tinh gọn này làm chi đâu?
We had to stay very close to our customers and build strong relationships with them in order to earn their forgiveness for a less than perfect product.There were two key take aways for me, that I'm grateful for, and will implement immediately, and one piece that I think Mr. Ries missed completely.The first key take away relates to the concept of testing assumptions.
It's one thing to do this when the wolf is consistently at the door, but it's quite another when the company has gotten past that stage.The piece that I think Mr. Ries doesn't discuss (and maybe the subject of a following book) has to do with when a product scales.
It serves as a good primer for someone with no business start-up experience and it documents a start-up management ethic that is very much in vogue right now.
My second complaint is that the author relies too heavily on his own experiences in tech start-ups.
A more balanced approached that drew upon the experience of a wide variety of start-ups would further legitimize the book and give the reader greater context of the lean start-up phenomenon.Overall a very good book and a worthwhile read for anyone wanting to keep up with modern management thinking.
This book is mostly a theoretical essay (though with a lot of examples) on how to apply "lean" ideas to startups and its execution.
The main idea of this book is to follow and focus on (!) "build-measure-learn" loop when you run startup (or, actually, do anything).
I rate this book as 3 of 5, which means it is "good" book and I would recommend to get this idea (which seems very promising), but you can safely stop reading this book as soon, as you will start feeling like the author is starting to repeating himself.
Lean Startup is an essential book for all those who want to start their own startup or have an idea to develop it.
Although it is a very specific book is highly recommended for all entrepreneurs and creatives.Spanish version:Lean Starup es un libro imprescindible para todos aquellas personas que quieran montar su propia startup o bien tienen una posible idea para desarrollarla.
Gracias a ejemplos de startups reales, una de ellas es la propia del autor, aprenderemos a detectar los problemas que podemos enfrentarnos en el desarrollo y crecimiento de nuestra startup, dándonos consejos, técnicas y habilidades que minimizarán las probabilidades de que nuestra brillante idea acabe fracasando.
In my opionion a must read for anyone working in any type of industry.Parapharsing the author: "We leave in times when we can build anything we can think of, the question is what to build".
Έχω βάσιμες υποψίες ότι στα αγγλικά το βιβλίο αυτό είναι εύκολο.
Σε κάνει να θέλεις τα λεφτά σου πίσω.Περιεχόμενο: Το 4άρι είναι καθαρά για το περιεχόμενο της αγγλικής έκδοσης (που την φαντάζομαι).
Πολύ καλή δομή, απλή γλώσσα, πολύ καλές συμβουλές και μου άρεσε η μακροχρόνια προοπτική που δίνει, μια μικρή φιλοσοφική θεώρηση προς το τέλος του βιβλίου του "τι σημαίνει κάνω κάτι που να έχει νόημα, ατομικό και για όλη την κοινωνία" (δεν είμαι ιδεολόγος).
