https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13540215-the-orchardist
Let’s state it up front. This is a GREAT book. Not a pretty good book with some nice qualities, but a powerful, beautiful, thoughtful and incredibly moving work of art that will be read for generations. The Orchardist is even more incredible for being a first novel, the best first I have read since Edgar Sawtelle. Yes, that good. Talmadge had lived forty years in the orchard without any exceptional event happening to him, barring inclement weather or some horticultural phenomenon. Nothing to spe
Not a pretty good book with some nice qualities, but a powerful, beautiful, thoughtful and incredibly moving work of art that will be read for generations.
After the mining death of his father in 1857, when he was nine years old, his mother traveled with him and his sister, Elspeth, north and west until they found a suitable piece of land in what is now Washington State.
When the man from whom they are fleeing arrives, events take a very dark turn.The core story of the novel is Talmadge’s struggle to save one of these runaways from the darkness both without and within, what he gains, loses, experiences and learns.
I was steeped in the landscape, the time period, the characters and enough of a plot to keep me turning the pages.
(7/16/13) at one point I developed a theory that would have made the book more interesting I think: what if Jane and Della were really Talmadge's nieces, the missing pieces to the puzzle of where his sister had disappeared so many years ago.
What if his sister had been snatched by Michaelson and brought to his brothel, where she gave birth to Jane and Della who eventually escaped and found their way to Talmadge, in a karmic kind of completion.
Whether she is taken or disappears of her own volition is a question that will haunt Talmadge as the century turns and he enters the later years of his life.
Coplin’s writing is uniquely and brilliantly her own, but a few favorite authors came to my mind while reading The Orchardist: Toni Morrison, for her evocative and dark period pieces and haunted women; Ivan Doig for the warmth of his characters and his passion for the West; Kent Haruf for his restraint and gentleness; Tim Winton for his truth-telling about the complicated nature of family.
I loved absolutely everything about this book: the cover, the setting, the prose and the characters.
Talmadge has lived alone for forty years, after the death of his mother and the disappearance of his sister, tending his orchards and giving a free pass to the wranglers and Indians that come onto his land with wild horses.
The beauty of the orchard is sharply contrasted with the violence that eventually comes his way.
"Her hair gathered at her neck, its color in the lantern light like a young oak.
How like the orchard she was.
But for me the book seemed somehow flawed.Coplin invents a time and place shaped more by her own imagination, by her own emotions toward the curious world she conjures, than by the historical record.
When a writer imagines a story in turn-of-the-century Washington that behaves like a gothic romance in the vein of Wuthering Heights, as Amanda Coplin does, am I, the reader, to accept this as a poetic truth?
Random notes:-- A blended family in which marriages never played any roles;-- Lonely, orphaned people who landed up taking care of each other;-- Good people being treated badly; bad people being treated good;-- The sadness of time sweeping over history and destroying evidence of lives lived and loved;-- Plum conserve with walnuts and raisins for the long winter days;-- Apples, pears, walnuts, apricots, vegetables and horses;-- An ode to loneliness in the richest tones imaginable.
- Jack Gilbert.Main characters:TalmadgeAngeleneCaroline MiddeyCreeDella and Janet MichaelsonIt is a tale of three graves on a mountain plateau, under a prehistoric cottonwood tree - with its small silver-green leaves that flashed constantly in the wind.
Basically, the story is about his intense connection to his orchard and also his attempts to love, care for and protect these two damaged women and one of their offspring, Angeline.
The love between Talmadge and Angeline throughout their years together was a prominent theme in this novel.
I found myself relating to the adult Angeline when she returns to the orchard to view the graves and reminisce under the old Cottonwood tree.
It was hard to believe that such a small and modest home held so many rich and wonderful memories for me.
It isn’t a fast paced novel by any means; it is more character-based than plot-based but the characters and sense of place are so exquisitely written that I did not want this book to finish.Set at the turn of the century in a rural stretch of Pacific Northwest, a reclusive orchardist by the name of William Talmadge tends to apples and apricots.
Having recently finished East of Eden by John Steinbeck I found coplin’s prose just as fresh and compelling and would certainly see how if you liked East of Eden you would enjoy the characters and pace of the Orchardist.I especially loved the sense of time and place of this novel and I loved the detailed descriptions of the land and Talmadge’s work as an orchardist on the frontier.
It appears apt for how the universal shines through the particular in the book’s clear prose, how the natural world is cast in a clear light, banishing the dark shadows of life to a compost of the soil.This is the story of Talmadge, an unmarried orchardist in the Wentchatee Valley of central Washington State at the end of the 19th century.
One is a herbalist and midwife, Caroline Middey, and the other a Nez Perce named Clee, who comes through each year with captured wild horses from the mountains to break and sell.From the beginning, we learn how grief shapes Talmadge’s life.
I was struck by the silent, intuitive communication by the protagonists.
(hide spoiler)] Alone in the silence of his vast orchard, until the arrival of Jane and Della, two pregnant teenagers who of necessity have developed a fear and dislike of men: “Men were, by definition, untrustworthy.” "The men were there to trade with, and to perhaps fear; but not to like for the sake of themselves.
Talmadge, with the help and advice of his pragmatic friend Caroline Middey, takes in and raises baby Angelene.
A beautiful, tender relationship develops between Talmadge and the child.
The orchardist is in many ways reminiscent of three of my best-loved books - Blessings, The Poisonwood Bible and The Snow Child.
Her descriptions of feelings are powerful, even though they are always understated.He did not expect her to be happy - how that word lost meaning as the years progressed - but he only wished her to be unafraid, and able to experience small joys.The story: At the turn of the twentieth century, in a remote stretch of Northwest America, a solitary orchardist, Talmadge, tends to apples and apricots as if they were his children.
Feral, scared and very pregnant, they follow Talmadge to his land and form an unlikely attachment to his gentle way of life.
I will never forget Talmadge, he of the giant heart, nor his orchard in Washington those long ago days, or the wild horses, or the sturdy generosity of Caroline Widdey, Clee, the Judge.
Coplin's prose is so dense and richly multi-sensory that as a reader I felt I walked that land, climbed those trees, felt and heard the wind,was dazzled by sunlight streaming through the foliage, and heard the chair move as they pushed it aside to eat the food I could already smell while in the orchard.
A treasure of a story I am thankful to have read.
Many thanks to Elyse, especially, for encouraging me to read it sooner than later.
No, not at all – as it seems to visually portray the organic, flowing and uninterrupted nature of a story with characters closely tied to the natural environment.And then there’s this indisputable fact: The Orchardist ‘breaks your heart without you even realizing it as you read’ (This from a Twitter conversation I had with another reader, Skyler Hawkins).
To me, this was largely a story about miscommunication and its consequences (We’ve all met those people who communicate without words, silently, introverted, misunderstood.
I’m not sure I’ve read a story with such complicated, flawed original characters.
I'm not a patient enough person to have liked this period book after its midpoint as well as it seems most others have.
The atmosphere is one of sadness; the kind that Sisyphus-like stories can engender.
When in novels we bump into a character that repeatedly and unsuccessfully tries to accomplish something, I can manage that for a certain time period, but my own personality draws me up at a certain point.
When more than one character illogically bangs their heads against a collective wall, I disengage.
A really, really good guy - zero faults, unless we could say that he possesses kindness to a fault.
I LOVED THIS BOOK!!!!!!!!!!
I have tons of questions I'd ask her if possible, (I wish tonight were a 'book-discussion' rather than a book 'intro' >>> for selfish reasons of course...
Master Writing.
(I love the 'clean' writing style of Amanda Coplin).
Glorious landscape: ( visuals smells & taste) Most books with chat of food don't do much for me one way or another ---(but maybe it was 'THE-choice-of-FOODS' Amanda *picked* (ha ha--no pun intended: apples/apricots), that got my mouth watering.
:) Heck, I'd have her at 'my' house for dinner!THE CHARACTERS are UNFORGETTABLE.....(you can see into their souls)SURPRISES: YES.....(several)I'll say again: I LOVE THIS BOOK!
Why do people read books?
For most people I know this why they read.Then why do I keep coming across books with such disturbing themes?
Why on earth did the author think anyone would enjoy reading about fictional child prostitution?
As a preschool teacher, who enjoys the company of children sometimes even more than adults I don't want to think about someone harming children.
It is just to sad without any hope.
It is not so horrible that I can not understand how others could enjoy it; this book is just not for me.
This is a very good book, beautiful writing, I just loved the main character Talmadge who had led such a lonely life until two young girls (sisters) appeared on his land.
William Talmadge is a man of quiet tenacity.
Talmadge is well on his way to old age when he discovers two pregnant girls living on his property.
Through his relationship with the girls and their offspring, Talmadge learns that sometimes all the love and self-sacrifice in the world is not enough to repair a damaged spirit.
Della is bent on self-destruction and revenge, and Talmadge pays a price for his deep and persistent concern for her well-being.
Stylistic choices notwithstanding, Coplin's prose displays a careful polish.
Eight years in the making, THE ORCHARDIST will garner much-deserved acclaim for new novelist Amanda Coplin.
I have been thinking a lot about this book since I finished it, waiting to write about it.
I could have stayed forever suspended in time in the orchard, sleeping on my side in the long grass in the sun among the apple and apricot trees.
I don't think I've read in a long time a writer who captures, and holds, time like this.
The whole book is drenched in it, but particularly the beginning of the book, when we are in the orchard with the reclusive, quiet Talmadge and the two "feral girls" who have escaped something horrific that we only find out about by degrees and who have taken asylum in Talmadge's grove of fruit trees.
A beautiful book.
It is also a celebration of the land of central Washington: what it was; what it inspired; and, what it became through four generations of white American cultivation.Because of the nature of the country and his own way of making a living, Talmadge sees few people and only occasionally goes to the nearest community.
The tension is raised early when Talmadge, for reasons he can't explain to himself, allows two pregnant adolescents to share his orchard and his life.
So, along the path of the plot, Coplin also explores the nature of friendship.Della is one of the two girls who takes refuge on Talmadge's land.
The prose, while solid, lacked the brilliance necessary to sustain interest as the narrative meandered to its unfortunate (although by the time it arrived, welcome) close.
Through the first half, I was alert to the possibilities and wondered where she was going with the story (King Lear in the orchard?
Unfortunately, she spent the second half leading us through the wilderness (it only seemed like forty years) and delivered no promised land at the end of our wanderings.
Fortunately, neither orchardists nor novelists must stake their reputations on a single tree or a single book.
The man who never reads lives only one.'I don't know if any of you have seen the German movie, Sonata for a Good Man, but The Orchardist is the story of one such person.
Prepare to live in another life and reality that is set back in time about 150 years where life is harsh and survival is a day to day thing.
Get ready for hardship, loss of family, sacrifice, hard work, harsh weather along with small doses and love from friends.
And walk in the shoes of one of the finest, honest, hard working people you will ever meet.
Days are spent in the orchard, tending the trees, or the occasional trips to town to sell his fruit.
It is in the Orchard that he sees the two girls, Jane and Della, for the first time.
Their faces and bodies covered with filth and their bellies swollen, Talmadge keeps his distance, giving them time, food.
The days that follow build slowly one on the other, and in due course their budding hopes in a new life allows a word or two, their trust grows, as does his understanding of the life they endured before finding the Orchard.
I couldn't stop reading this emotionally intense, gripping tale of William Talmadge who loved and tended his orchards with devotion in early 1900s rural Oregon.
One day, two ferrel young and pregnant girls appeared to be hiding on his vast property and that is the day his life changed forever.
Without hesitation or question he took on the role of their protecter and saved them from the life the were running from.
Just as the girls were beginning to trust him, a group of men with guns appeared and challenged their way of life.
Very dreamy, lyrical novel, the pace and character of which is intimately woven into the landscapes, the seasons, the unrelenting hardship and loneliness of a settler's life in Washington in the late 1800s through to the 1920s.
On Talmadge's orchard, he is left alone with his thoughts and responsibilities until two violated runaway girls steal food from him, and overturn his carefully ordered life.
The cast of characters' words to one another, sparse as they are, merge into their unspoken thoughts, unseparated by notation or grammatical punctuation and seem to be as substantial as the weight of apples, or worry or the passage of time.
When two scared, starving pregnant teenage girls (Della and Jane) show up in the orchard, Talmadge decides to feed and help them even locating their abuser.
Afterward, Della runs off and Talmadge raises Jane's daughter, Angelene referring to her as "the girl"?
The premise of the book is that Talmadge feels bad about losing Elsbeth and tries to be Della's savior since he feels he let her run off, but it just falls short for me even after he risks his life to save her.
So glad I wasn't reading the last 100 or so pages on public transportation.
As in real life, conversations were remembered differently.
In many ways this book was about memory and how the characters treated it.
Nearly all the main characters had survived traumas and I was fascinated in how these shaped their approach to relationships (or lack of relational skills.) - Unique story.
I always marvel that there are GRers who decide they don't like a book because they don't like the characters.
I don't want to give anything away and won't say much more.Deserving of a broad audience.
Set at the turn of the twentieth century, the book initially focuses on a solitary man named Talmadge: a man who nurtures apples, apricots, and plums from the land and mourns the death of his mother and disappearance of his sister who vanished with barely a trace.
But soon, an event that is out of Talmadge’s control take a dark turn.Talmadge “had moved slowly all his life.
This was how people lived, now.” The rest of the book deals with the aftermath of that event: Talmadge’s striving to preserve and support his nontraditional family including an extraordinary daughter of one of the sisters.
Coplin's writing feels natural and I like that.I think this book would make a good book club selection or buddy read because there is so much that could be discussed in relation to why things were done the way they were, how much the early environment of a child effects decisions and points their ultimate direction and so much more.
The book contains interesting contrasts, all the characters are slightly mysterious in that you never feel like you know them completely.
The only mystery I felt truly should not have been left hanging was (view spoiler)[ what happened to Talmadge's sister.
In this understated and emotionally raw novel of a family born as much from choice as from blood, debut novelist Amanda Coplin explores themes of love, loyalty, courage, compassion, revenge, and honor, as well as the lifelong, traumatic impact of both childhood abuse and loss.The novel opens with orchardist William Talmadge, a tall, broad-shouldered and solitary man who is composed of the most steadfast moral fiber and potent vulnerability of almost any protagonist that I can recall in recent (new/contemporary) literature.
This is Talmadge's story, and the saga of his chosen family, borne from the blood of loss and abuse.Two young pregnant teenagers, Della and Jane, enter Talmadge’s life in his middle-aged years.
