https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3188964-the-doors-of-perception
The title comes from William Blake's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell "If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, infinite.
For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro' narrow chinks of his cavern." Huxley attempted to open up that door and find the perfect state of grace that he believed was possible for all.
His thoughts on drapery make you believe that folds in a piece of cloth are the most important thing in the world.
An erudite artist and scholar tripping on mescaline.Decades before other drug culture manifestos and hippy folios cool cat Aldous Huxley first published his Doors of Perception in 1954 ( the same year as Poul Anderson’s The Broken Sword and Richard Matheson’s I Am Legend).
Huxley, speaking from the early 50s does the green libertarians one better by advocating for mescaline.
Like the persuasive argument today about how tobacco and alcohol are far more harmful than illegal pot, Huxley goes on to articulate how mescaline is the more spiritual and beneficial for society and even for religion.A surprisingly entertaining and illuminating essay.
Certain of these changes are similar to those which occur in that most characteristic plague of the twentieth century, schizophrenia." Mescalin, it seems, along with chemicals found naturally in the body, can shake up the way the brain normally filters and manipulates data input.
Huxley thought it prevented the brain from filtering input from our senses, thereby making everything intense and amazing.
Huxley coined a term, Mind at Large, which I rather liked-- “Each person is at each moment capable of remembering all that has ever happened to him and of perceiving everything that is happening everywhere in the universe.
Este es uno de sus estudios, su primera vez bajo la influencia de la Mescalina —Sustancia alucinógena obtenida a partir de las flores de algunas especies de cactus originarios de México, cuyo consumo provoca cambios en la percepción, en especial visión de colores irreales—.El origen de su titulo se encuentra en la célebre cita del poeta y pintor William Blake en "The Marriage of Heaven and Hell":"If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, infinite."Huxley pretendía expandir su mente, alcanzar esas puertas, observar las cosas en su estado más puro, y tal vez, conectar con la infinitud.La delicadeza con la que Huxley narra cada momento de su "viaje", es divina.
Hell, I even read William Blake's poetry, simply because it apparently influenced Morrison.
However, I never did get around to reading Aldous Huxley's The Doors of Perception , the book title from which the band was named.
The point is, I've finally read the damn book.
Backstory: Bookish brainiac Huxley decided to try out the cactus drug peyote.
In fact, Huxley spends so much time, too many pages imo, on art and artists that I began to doubt the need for a book on the topic.
I guess I just didn't have the same mind-expanding experience as Morrison had when reading this.
I need to read more Huxley...maybe I'll finally dig in to the copy of "The Perennial Philosophy" that I've started on several times (although probably not until after "A Brief History Of Everything"...those two at the same time would be just masochistic.)Although I did get a lot out of this book, the single thing that really made an impact was the discussion of our brain as a sensory-limiting mechanism which is concerned most of the time with filtering out all but what we need for survival at any given moment.
So even just in the course of an individual life, the brain gradually imposes tighter limits on itself until all you have is bills and doctors appointments.
“Si las puertas de la percepción quedaran depuradas, el hombre vería las cosas tal cual son: infinitas.”Esta frase de William Blake, de la cual Jim Morrison, que era un lector realmente excepcional, tomó una parte para llamar a su banda “The Doors”, sirvió, de la misisma manera, para que Aldous Huxley le diera el nombre a este libro que en realidad es un ensayo basado en una experiencia a la que se prestó para anotar sus impresiones y obviamente, percepciones, sobre los efectos de la mescalina, principio activo del peyote, la denominación mexicana del cactus y que fuera utilizado durante mucho tiempo por los indios de México y del sudeste de los Estados Unidos.Los resultados alucinatorios y de exacerbación de los sentidos son descriptos con vivacidad cuando la mescalina hace efecto en Huxley lo cual por momentos resulta hilarante cuando comienza a distinguir la iridiscencia y vivacidad de todo lo que ve, desde los lomos de los libros de su biblioteca, pasando por los pliegues de sus pantalones, las patas de una silla bañada por el sol y la sombra y especialmente su reacción con al ver las flores.
Huxley.
Not on my list of great writers, but an interesting person with ideas.
There are more illuminating books on psychoactive substances, but this would perform well as a primer for those completely brainwashed into thinking that drug-takers are dazed hippies.
I see them/us as *seekers*, people seeking to believe in something they can see and experience in an age where we don't take words like mind, soul, reason for granted anymore.
This is exactly the point of view Huxley uses here.
Keep an art book/laptop at hand- there are quite a few references to works of art that you might want to see.
This has opened some aspects & still some are in mirage. I would read again and again over the ages & believe will be able to decode more...
Huxley's writing is brilliant and a joy to read. The work is littered throughout with so much religious and philosophical allusions, which adds to the thoughtful depth. I found it to be quite fascinating. However, his conclusions leave empty. Essentially, it's religion achieved through chemistry. And his conception of religion focuses purely on the subjective. It's no surprise that he refers to Eckhart, Boehme, and eastern philosophy so often; he looks only at the "inner light" rather than considering an external objectivism.

I've never tried mescaline but always hoped that the opportunity would knock someday. The idea has only become more attractive after pondering this author's thoughts on his experience with the famous mystical medication and the brief history he presents on the value of peyote.Short book but well worth the read.
I'm planning to trip on shrooms (psilocybin) soon so I read this to give me an idea of what to expect. I'd die happy if I experienced half of what's described here.
My hopes were partially fulfilled in the second half of the essay, in which Huxley examined the natural human urge to experience the world through the lens of any kind of drug or alcohol, and how this relates to current legal policy and common conceptions of mental well-being.
However, most of the essay carried the kind of underlying tone of semi-religious reverence for the effects of drugs that I hear all too much of from the kids at college.
The idea that the human brain can have knowledge of the entire universe, and the restriction of glucose to the brain keeps the mind from suppressing this knowledge, well I just don't buy it.
True, when I read its 50 brilliant pages in a single sitting I was feeling the first effects of a flu infection that I was hoping was going to be fought back before it could take a firm hold (so far so good), but I'm reasonably confident that the impression it made on me was genuine, and not a product of any fevered flights of fancy.So: The Doors of Perception.
I can't remember being inspired to meditate so frequently by a book for a long time, if ever.Unfortunately, TDoP is succeeded by Heaven and Hell, the point of which almost entirely escaped me.
My friend Amanda who dated & married this guy based on their shared obsession with Nick Cave said I had to read this book in Oz. They even got it out for me at the library.
Anyway Amandas x 2 both did their Ph.Ds and got "over" the silly fascination with that "undergraduate phase".www.ceciliayu.com
In 1936, Huxley boldly became the guinea pig of an experiment testing the effects of Mescaline (active ingredient in Peyote) on humans.
Huxley observes that flowers, tables, landscapes and art objectively manifest themselves and present truths which are ensconced under the biased lens through which we perceive reality.
"Familiarity breeds contempt,", he cogently concludes.Huxley knows that having an objective reality revealed to you is akin to Schizophrenia and he asserts that psychedelic drugs give us the heavens of Schizophrenia without its many hells.
Huxley's vivid description of the hallucinatory effects that he experiences under mescaline are not only entertaining to read, but also provide the reader with an alternate account of subjective reality that has now been made illegal.
Many of the experiences that he describes relating to self awareness and the realisation of the ego are similar to the effects I have experienced through meditation, making it an interesting read.
For the readers convinced that psychedelics are bad for you and have no interest in them, this book also provides many links between the effects of psychedelics and practices in modern nature.
Las puertas de la percepción es un ensayo narrado en primera persona que relata los efectos que produce en el cerebro una droga llamada mescalina.
Aldous Huxley reivindica la utilización de drogas para librarnos de las limitaciones mentales y poder percibir una realidad con menos filtros mentales o válvulas reductoras, opinión que no comparto.La segunda mitad del libro está plagada de reflexiones filosóficas.
El autor analiza los valores de nuestra sociedad y el sistema educativo.
"Gastamos actualmente en bebidas y tabaco más de lo que gastamos en educación.
Tampoco puede sorprender la actitud corriente frente al alcohol y el tabaco."
He records the entire process and later sits to write - rather poetically - his experience with the hallucinogenic drug.
This is his authentic testimony.In this memoir, Huxley indulges in a careful description of his visions and thoughts whilst under the effect of the drug.
His vicarious experience inflicted him with a shift in perception.
At the end of it, a vivid description - he proposes some new ideas: should we perceive the universe through the limited spectrum of language?
Or should we obtain an ability to describe the cosmos without naming and separating ideas and objects?
I recommend this to all artists, intuitives, and introverts. Like me, you may recognize your own perceptions in the beautiful and lucid writing. No, I do not recommend mescalin for everyone. I have never taken it and I know for certain I haven’t got the right psychological makeup to avoid the dangers Huxley wisely describes. Read this essay if you have already absorbed the Tao Te Ching or other classics of the literature of transcendence. If you’re already insightful you certainly may not need a drug to understand.
Also, there are a few interesting (if poorly considered) ideas proposed in the book about the nature of reality as it relates to the way in which the human mind perceives it.
The huge drawback of the book (and the primary reason why I had to give it 2 stars) is that, ultimately, this is a nonfiction essay in which Huxley is proposing an idea that simply isn’t true.
At least Huxley himself could be forgiven somewhat for some of the more ludicrous ideas he proposes in the book because he wrote it in 1953 when the scientific understanding of the human brain was next to nothing.
La importancia del ensayo consiste en describir y alcanzar un estado que Huxley llama de "Inteligencia Libre" (una pésima traducción, pésima, dado que en el original es "Mind at Large", algo así como "Mente en Extensión", lo cual es consistente con todos los argumentos que en lo posterior desarrolla), un estado en el que la conciencia pierde la noción de i) sí mismo; ii) el tiempo; iii) los juicios morales y iv) cualquier concepción heredera del raciocinio utilitarista (el archiconocido y sobrevalorado análisis costo-beneficio); y que por tanto implica una pertenencia con el todo, la unicidad en el infinito.
I went into Aldous Huxley's "The Doors of Perception" with no expectations, which is how a good friend told me I should approach any book rather than the spiritual and emotional awakening I have been spoiled into wanting, and so I was not surprised when I did not get one.
But what I did get is an honest treatise from a profound and respected wordsmith about his experience with the psychoactive mescaline and that dimension alone would have been enough for me to enjoy this little book.
But reading "The Doors of Perception" was not a one dimensional affair.
There is no doubt that his experiences had a profound effect on him as it did many other intellectuals and doctors of the time, and his arguments are profoundly compelling.As an aside, when I discussed the book with my father, I learned that he had worked with the psychiatrist Humphry Osmond at the Weyburn Mental Hospital in Saskatchewan during early experimentation with LSD.
My father was a Doctor and he assisted in the research.Here's the interesting part and why my dad had a copy of the book.
Dr. Osmond administered the mescaline to Aldous Huxley at the Weyburn Mental Hospital that he writes about in the book...
If you're like me, you've always avoided this book due to it being the namesake of the band, The Doors.
The Doors constitute everything I find distasteful about the 1960s.
This is a wonderful little book which describes a mescalin trip and then offers a small amount of philosophy and opinion on art, music and the need to find a middle ground between the mindset of science and some form of spiritual search for self.
You can see a great deal of Morrison's persona distilled in this book, it would have been great if he borrowed a little more from its tone when he read it.
If the doors of perception were cleansed everything would appear to man as it is, infinite. WILLIAM BLAKE Most men and women lead lives at the worst so painful, at the best so monotonous, poor and limited that the urge to escape, the longing to transcend themselves if only for a few moments, is and has always been one of the principal appetites of the soul.
"That humanity at large will ever be able to dispense with Artificial Paradises seems very unlikely. Most men and women lead lives at the worst so painful, at the best so monotonous, poor and limited that the urge to escape, the longing to transcend themselves if only for a few moments, is and has always been one of the principal appetites of the soul."
Fantastic read
Huxley covers a wide range of life's dimensions and ponders on philosophy (Eastern and Western), art, music, mental illness, solitude, the nature of language and a large number of other expressions of human existence and creativity.
It is a rather short, though dense, book which is better understood if the reader is willing to let himself be allured by the apocalyptic world that Huxley is, vividly, describing.
For every reader who is not familiar with Aldous Huxley's writing, this book could prove to be a great introduction to his thought.
