https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367215.Man_Plus
Pohl brings an approachability to his very competent hard science fiction; a pleasing meld of technically believable sci-fi with humanistic and psychological elements.
Overpopulation and Malthusian restrictions were also a theme in Gateway, perhaps a recurring element in Pohl’s fiction.
With a destinational setting of Mars, Pohl competes with science fiction royalty in thin air, but of course, the far side benchmark is still the great Ray Bradbury who shrugged aside any scientific considerations and may have written a line like “they got in the rocket and went to Mars”.
Even with this consideration, this is still a very good book
At NASA, people often quoted what were claimed to be the Three Things Astronauts Fear Most.
Dying.In this 70s SF story, an astronaut, apparently with the normal set of priorities, has been fortunate enough to find himself selected for a daring bioengineering experiment; they are going to turn him into a creature capable of surviving, without a suit or other equipment, on the surface of Mars.
The astronaut's wife is not equally thrilled, particularly when she discovers that they've removed her husband's penis.
She wants to know if they'll be able to put it back again afterwards."What?" asks the bioengineer, evidently surprised by the question.

Meh. As far as SF masterpieces go, this one was pretty bad.
I read it as the literary equivalent of a 50's B movie and found a modicum of enjoyment this way, but it was not a particularly interesting or fascinating read.Man Plus concerns itself with manly astronauts yearning to conquer space, and the women orbiting their lives.
If this book had been published in 1956 I would have rolled my eyes and moved on, but for a 1976 book, it's pretty darn backwards.
But the novel is never realistic enough, the characters never interesting enough to take us into truly dark territory.
It could be argued that Gateway is the perfect science fiction novel, because in it Pohl does many of the things which the genre is famous for superlatively: big ideas, interesting (if off-stage) aliens, journeys of personal discovery in intriguing environments, extrapolation of current trends and ideas into the future (in a rather dystopian way); and does it with humour using a flawed central character - a cowardly hero all too easy to identify with.
In an effort to finish more Grand Masters and Masterworks, and relating to other Mars books read this year, I dove into this pool of Pohl.
Man to his body, and to his soul (a Catholic Priest is along on the mission).
The Teddy Roosevelt-like president pokes into the story at odd times, at first a caricature, but later truly concerned for the astronaut and his mission.Flowery words aside, I liked the story.
A sequel was co-written many years afterward, and it is perhaps telling that I have no interest in reading further into this universe.
Not long ago, I posted a book review about Theodore Sturgeon's More Than Human, and was talking about 1970s-era consideration of what human beings are, and here we have Man Plus as a handy juxtaposition.
Look at the two broad categories would be an interesting topic for discussion, and I may make a note of it in my list of themes for future science fiction/fantasy bookclub meetings.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
. .And yet, what Pohl was trying to do with this novel was astoundingly ambitious, and might even be prescient, if you don't linger overmuch on technology that is capable of almost completely replacing the human body with cybernetics, but is incapable of running all those systems without a computer terminal the size of a backpack that must communicate with a mainframe.Roger Torroway is an astronaut who has been assigned to the Man Plus project.
The novel concerns itself with the dehumanizing effects of the technology, and speculates that a human who has almost entirely been replaced by machines may not be exactly human anymore.I don't agree, and I don't think most modern readers would, but that was a valid concern in the 70s and even 80s and writers spent a lot of time on it.
In 1953, Frederick Pohl teamed with C.M. Kornbluth and wrote The Space Merchants, one of the greatest American SF novels of the 20th century.
And since 19th century precursors would be few and far between and it is too early to start making such calls about the 21st century, I guess I could go ahead and say that Pohl and Kornbluth wrote one of the greatest American SF novels of all time.Perhaps because Space Merchants is my only other contact with Frederick Pohl, I find myself overly disappointed by this stingily imagined 1976 novel of the first U.S. manned mission to Mars.
3.0 stars. Classic SF story by Pohl. Just re-read this story for the second time and it does feel a little dated. However, it is still an excellent read and, like much of Pohl's science ficiton, deals with emotional and psychological issues of its characters. In this case, the increasing sense of "disconnect" between the main character and the rest of humanity as a result of being modified to go to Mars. Winner - Nebula Award Best NovelNominee -Hugo Award Best NovelNominee - Campbell AwardNominee -Locus Award Best Science Ficiton Novel
Excellent premise and story, unfortunately tarnished by Yellow Peril, a straw feminist, American exceptionalism, compulsory heterosexuality (but a complete lack of knowledge of population bottleneck), and a woman whose lovesickness is more important than her qualifications as a top psychologist.
Delaying on my rating only becauseI have to think about how I actually felt about this book for a little bit.
El personaje y sus vivencias una vez transformado en Homo Plus son geniales así como el contexto global que rodea la historia y como se plantea la resolución al conflicto.
Son aspectos que le dan una identidad temporal y que hay que tener en cuenta a la hora de leer el libro para ponerlo en contexto.La parte más positiva, y negativa, es el final.
El final me parece genial, sorpresivo pero cuando digo negativa es porque lo despacha en dos hojas cuando es probablemente lo más llamativo del libro junto con las experiencias del Homo Plus y que hubiera dado mas juego que las partes dedicadas a la vida sexual del protagonista.Recomendable por corto, clásico y original pero me parece algo sobrevalorado tras las criticas que he leído.
...Man Plus includes the dark sense of humour is included in everything I have read of Pohl so far.
His portrayal of the US president in particular borders on the satirical at times.
The satirical tone of some parts of the novel combined with the grotesque changes to Torraway's physique keep the reader right on the edge of how serious all this should be taken.
I suppose one could take this to be a fairly light read.
The last few chapters in particular leave the reader with something to think about....Full Random Comments review
Overpopulation rears its ugly head, as it must, apparently, for all sci-fi of the '60s and '70s, with a whopping 8 billion people.But the focus of the book is that, in order to live on Mars, standard issue humans have to be adapted.
The usual senses aren't much use on a planet with low light and little air and so on, so they create a cyborg (also very '70s) out of some poor sap who signed up to be an astronaut.
And this, really, is where the craft of the book shines.You see, in order to adapt to all these new senses, the brain has to be trained.
This is my first Frederik Pohl novel, and it was pretty interesting.
The idea of "enhancing" man to make him capable of surviving on Mars as is (i.e. without a protective suit, the necessity of oxygen, food, water and such trivialities) and the gruelling task of realizing that idea is the main premise of the book.
But I liked that the topic was much broader - and that is what makes a human, well, human?
Pohl describes all that and more.
This novel is not for the weak of heart, though, because parts that deal with "Martian engineering" are rather gruesome.
Čovjek plus...Pohl je sukobio dvije perspektive transformacije čovjeka: jednu kao horor gubitka vlastite prirode, čovječnosti i unakaženja čovjekovog fizičkog tijela - spoj čovjeka i robota gdje se čovjek gotovo u potpunosti gubi, postaje čudovište, te drugu kao sinergiju čovjeka i stroja - gdje osoba postaje nešto mnogo više a zadržava čovječnost duboko u sebi.Pohl je ciničan, ne štedi politiku i društveno prihvaćena ponašanja modernog društva (tad su bile 70-e).
Cilj misije, Mars, nije fokus ove priče, već transformacija čovjeka i transformacija našeg stava o tom što čovjek postaje kad se spoji sa strojem.
I dakako, zanimljiv rasplet na kraju priče.
An interesting story about transforming a man into a cyborg in order for him to be able to survive on a pre-terraformed Mars. There are things to think about. However, thinking about it, such extensively transformed bodies to allow colonization doesn't seem believable (both the cost and the human distaste at the idea of such "violence" to one's body).Pohl craftily sneaks in another element which only becomes clear at the end.The book is short. It's not one to portray space colonization as easy or idyllic.
Some interesting ideas, some unnecessary sexism, and a "big reveal" at the end which is unrelated to the other issues brought up by the story.
It follows the story a manned (it's only men, really) mission to mars, where they are Mars-forming a human astronaut to be able to live with no assistance in Mars conditions.The book is great in what comes to describing the experience of becoming something other than human and it isn't so great at portraying women.
Women are here just sex objects (Dorrie), on a honeypot mission where they pretend to be sexy nurses (Sulie) or as the only female scientist in the whole story, Kathleen, a bit manly.
All women, including Kathleen, live only in function of men, Dorrie as an adultress, Sulie as being in love and Kathleen in mars-forming the guy.
The near future. Earth is heading for a nuclear war, and the only thing that seems to be able to save mankind, is relocating to Mars. Roger Thorraway is the first man to go there, and he is made into a cyborg in order to be able to live on Mars. Solid ideas, but a lot of attention is given to Thorraway's thoughts and emotions.An excellent science fiction novel, with some great ideas and interesting characters, albeit not really exciting.
Man Plus (Man Plus #1) by Frederik Pohl This story was published 17 years ago, but is still relevant today. Yes, the technology to transform a human into a cyborg that can live on the surface of Mars is nonexistent. And probably always will be. But look past the parts where they rebuild the Six Billion Dollar Man, and the story holds up. The characters are a bit one dimensional, but for this tale it works. And our hero does undergo many transformative events in his journey.So it's a quick read, but a fun escape.
Mi-a facut cu ochiul din biblioteca romanul “Man Plus” si, avand in vedere ca dupa colectia Nautilus a celor de la Nemira, seria celor de la Pygmalion mi-a oferit si ea sansa de a descoperi o suita de lucrari memorabile, nu am mai stat pe ginduri.Subiectul romanului, despre care credeam ca a fost castigator al Premiului Nebula in 1978 (de fapt e 1976, subiect asupra caruia o sa revin pe final), se invarte in jurul incercarilor guvernului american, care, prin construirea unei echipe speciale, incearca sa obtina o fiinta hibrida, un cyborg uman, adaptat in totalitate vietii de pe Marte.
Man Plus features a brilliant premise in which a human, Roger Torraway, is biologically engineered to live on Mars unaided by a suit or breathing equipment.
Although we are no where near developing cyborgs, humanity is beginning to take significant steps in space and there is a real sense of urgency, with the Mars One project and the likes of Steven Hawking warning that humans must become a multi-planet species in order to avoid extinction.Although Pohl is clever enough not to be specific, Man Plus is set in what appears to be an early twenty first century future.
I would have liked to see the different sections of the book woven together in a more cohesive way and given an equal treatment, as all three as I see them are fascinating and worthy of exploration (the breakdown of civilisation, the man plus project, the gradual takeover by hidden forces).
The last section felt like it was only tagged on at the end, while parts of the man plus project felt drawn out and the tensions created in the love triangle between Roger, Brad and Dorrie ultimately meaningless where some of the other ideas could have been further explored.I enjoyed reading the majority of this book but feel my investment in the story was not rewarded by the ending.
I can never place the appeal - maybe the attempts at describing the "future" where technology is such a fickle and tricky thing to describe (the iPad is just over 2 years old after all) while at the same time social and political strains and pressures though misplaced are still as striking then as they are now.
or maybe it the sense of wonder and excitement that boundaries are being pushed or new worlds are being explored that transfer from the author (via the characters) to the read- I do not know but I do know that as a result this is still as much a page turner now as it was then
Roger es destinado a un proyecto más secreto de lo habitual en los viajes espaciales, el Proyecto Homo Plus, que tratará de llevar a Marte a representantes del Mundo Libre, pero para ello habrá que trabajar sobre la biología de los que viajarán hasta el planeta rojo manipulando su estructura para convertirlos en ciborgs adaptados a la vida en el nuevo entorno.
El primero de ellos, al menos el que todavía está vivo, es el Comandante Will Harnett.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
First paragraph: It is necessary to tell you about Roger Torraway.
One human being does not seem particularly important, when there are eight billion alive.
Not more important than, for example, a single microchip in a memory store.
But a single chip can be decisive when it carries an essential bit, and Torraway was important in just that way.
He was a good-looking man, as people go.
Famous, too.
Or had been.I enjoyed this science fiction winner, although it did feel dated to me since it was written more than 30 years ago.
Humanity has decided to colonize Mars, as statistics show that men will destroy each other soon in their wars.
In this science fiction novel by Frederick Pohl, a man is turned into a monster and sent to survive in Mars, the only way to avoid extinction of the human race. This novel has the ability to give readers a relatable feel despite the drastic circumstances of the plot. Pohl gives readers a novel that stretches the average thoughts of the mind, and formulates an out of the ordinary, yet interesting, story.
In modern discourse, we talk of how we will change Mars to suit humanity.
This book, however, points to an alternative - we change humanity to suit the Mars climate.I like this idea.
When you start to think about the possibility further, with technologies such as gene editing, robotics, and the development of AI, why can't we have Humanity 2.0?
I am less certain about that, but will accept it as a distinct possibility.In the story, there is a force guiding the development of humanity.
