https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132280.Consider_the_Oyster
On the other hand...A good portion of human life in the more indulgent cultures these days is devoted to gastro-porn: a form of life-out-of-balance in which too much time, money, and attention is expended on increasingly fine points of restaurants, recipes, ingredients, schools of thought on nutrition, and the like.
DNF. Fisher tries very hard to be smart but accomplishes only excruciating pompousness. Her descriptions of food, however, are—delicious. Wish I could read more but I just can’t be arsed!
H. Auden called "America's greatest writer...."http://www.nytimes.com/books/98/01/18...
And thus, in their own one-minded way, they have spent time and thought and money on the problems of how to protect oysters from the suckers and the borers and the starvers, until now it is comparatively easy to eat this two-valved mollusk anywhere, without thought of the dangers it has run in its few years.
Its life has been thoughtless but no less full of danger, and now that it is over we are perhaps the better for it.""The point about her, as Ms. Ferrary notes in "Between Friends: M.
http://www.nytimes.com/books/98/10/11..."
A delicious morsel of a book.
"It should be opened at street temperature in a cool month, never iced, and plucked from its rough irregular shell at once, so that its black gills still vibrate and cringe with the shock of the air upon them.
Then, of course, a bite or two of buttered brown bread must follow, better to stimulate the papilles...and then, of course, of course, a fine mouthful of a white wine."Must read for oyster lovers, food writers/readers, and those who like subtle humor.
MFK Fisher is my new girl crush. Just look at her. This book really is just about oysters and I wish there was more. Fisher is sharp, snobby and super funny. She has included several recipes. My favorite is To Make a Pearl. In the list of ingredients, 1 diving-girl.
After reading this book, I had two thoughts: MFK Fisher is a crazy, snobby old loon; and would I ever love to sit next to her at a dinner party. Her writing is witty, knowledgeable and from a different era. There are great recipes; the one on oyster loaves was the most tantalizing to me. At about 75 pages, this book is an easy read. I would read other stuff by this looney old girl.
Sentences like: "A better [tartar sauce] can be made from this recipe, which is easy if you have an herb garden, and impossible, but still fun to think about, if you do not." Or: "Far removed as this recipe may seem from the ordinary kitchen's possibilities, it still has not that fabulous quality of the rule quoted by everyone from Richelieu's chef to Crosby Gaige, in which you put one thing inside another until you have something more or less the size of an elephant, then roast the whole thing and finally throw away all but the innermost thing.
As long as it takes for an oyster to slowly evolve its way into crispness/liquoric stupor/optimal salinity is about as long as you'd want to linger over every word, phrase, sentence, paragraph, chapter of this book. Fisher takes her time to nudge descriptions into succinctness, whether directly narrating factual foundations or musing in the heavens of magical realism laced with truth. It's the literary equivalent of slow food, proving there are two sides (probably more) to every bivalve story.
I learned that you can make an "oyster loaf" by slicing off the top of a loaf of crusty bread, jamming a bunch of fried oysters in there, covering everything with butter, and then sticking it back in the oven. Sounds tasty.Also, I (think I) learned that oysters are alive when you eat them raw.
This is what all food writing should be. So witty and erudite that it barely touches the ground; effortlessly edifying. Full of richness, but easy like a summer breeze. MFK Fisher is a stunning writer.
<3
Mandatory reading for the ostriavore. Includes colorful recipes, polemics and oysterlore.
What a weird read.
A 75-page ode to the gastronomy of oysters, written in 1942, dotted with recipes and nostalgia.
Charming despite (because of?) her snootiness.After a recipe for butter crackers: "This is something you will probably never taste in your life, unless you are stubborn or have a crazy cook, but it is nice to know that there are still live people who have eaten something other than those light dead things we call oyster crackers with their stews.""Men insist that [oysters in late summer] will kill you or make you wish they had.
This is wrong, of course, except that all oysters, like all men, are somewhat weaker after they have done their best at reproducing."
Always a pleasure With wit and billowy prose, MFK Fischer drops the reader into the magic world of the oyster. From cozy British pubs to east coast seaside shucks or a loaf she never quite ate, but nevertheless remembers well, the stories are filled in with smattering of recipes consisting of mostly butter and oysters. If you're not looking for oyster houses by chapter two, I'll eat my hat.
Rather dated, but some good writing about the life of oysters and their culinary history. Unusable recipes, but I did not read this for recipes. This is the first I've read of M.F.K. Fisher, and I'll try another about a less singular subject.
This book was absolutely ridiculous. However, I will admit that it is rather unintentionally funny. MFK Fisher must have been a very odd woman. I kind of want to try an oyster now to see if they're really as good as she thinks they are.
Writing so evocative, it made me want to go back to the Northwest and have more Oyster happy hours.
Brilliantly-written by a brilliant woman!
Great recipes This was a very interesting book that included a lot of delicious sounding recipes that I would like to try.
An entirely endearing, witty, and colorful book that is part cookbook and part reflection on the influence of the curious mollusk that has floated throughout culinary history.
Read in an hour or two. Enjoyable little read. Beautiful and amusing way with words.
Perfect.
Stories, recipes, thoughts about oysters. Just perfect. Fisher could consider anything and it would be a delight.
Interesting topic, educational. Lovely writing and attitude.
She is a fantastic writer.
She is a fabulous painter of word pictures. Like Thomas Wolfe, except with food.
I wish I had read this before my father wangled me into eating a raw oyster, several times, in New Orleans when I was a kid; I might have liked them. I m-i-g-h-t be willing to try them again. Then again, maybe not. :-)
If u love oysters like I love them u will love this
The authors experiences of global oyster eating seem to surpass my own, yet I am surprised at her opinion that Chesapeake and waters farther south hold second rate bivalves while every other oyster was superbly to her taste.
I have eaten oysters in France and England, and several areas of our west coast whose taste was less pleasing than my favorite of all, Apalachicola Bay oysters.
I was weened on Chesapeake Bay seafood and have eaten especially fine tasting ones recently when visiting my father on the St. Mary's River, shucked for me less than an hour of being tonged to the surface...YUM YUM.Oh, Fisher's writing style and prose was lovely.
I identify with Consider the Oyster on a personal level, having grown up on the Atlantic and later Pacific coasts, and having had gastronomical and what could be considered professional contact with oysters all my life. I enjoyed her stories, second-hand tales, and explanations but I didnt enjoy her gender-rific use of "man" and "men" to describe traits of people, or human truths or whatever - my sister loves oysters more than I do, theres no reason why she shouldnt include my sister, and women
I identify with Consider the Oyster on a personal level, having grown up on the Atlantic and later Pacific coasts, and having had gastronomical and what could be considered professional contact with oysters all my life.
I enjoyed her stories, second-hand tales, and explanations but I didn´t enjoy her gender-rific use of "man" and "men" to describe traits of people, or human truths or whatever - my sister loves oysters more than I do, there´s no reason why she shouldn´t include my sister, and women in general.
