https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88442.Austerlitz
Of all the kinds of reviews to write, the ecstatically enthusiastic ones are the worst, I think.
But he's one of my favorite dismissive assholes.) Very much in the same way that I just now condescendingly patted the musical tastes of tween girls on the head and sent them on their way in the previous paragraph—when in fact some of them would clearly cut a bitch to get within fellating distance of a Jonas brother (or whatever twerps they happen to be listening to this week).And W.G. Sebald's Austerlitz is an especially difficult book for me to get all OMFG!!!
Well, let me tell you why: Because if I read a book and I really, really, really love it (as I loved Austerlitz) I have to scream about it like a girl at a Justin Bieber concert.
There’s something reminiscent of an archaeological dig about Austerlitz – the quest to piece back together a missing life by sifting through layers of the past.
Austerlitz reads like the autobiography of an academic, recounted in instalments to the stranger he repeatedly meets in various locations, who has lived a hermetic and fruitless life.
Very late in life he sets about trying to discover what happened to his mother and father.
Here's what esteemed critic Michiko Kakutani wrote as part of her New York Times review: "We are transported to a memoryscape - a twilight, fogbound world of half-remembered images and ghosts that is reminiscent at once of Ingmar Bergman's Wild Strawberries, Kafka's troubling fables of guilt and apprehension and, of course, Proust's Remembrance of Things Past.''With his lyrical, poetic language, German born W.
I suspect one reason Mr. Sebold included the many black and white photographs as part of his novel goes back to what art critic Robert Hughes noted about the Holocaust: photography captured the ghastliness of the atrocities in a way other forms of art could not.
Perhaps this silence that comes after reading Sebald is in some ways my attempt to not trivialize or minimize the effect reading his books produces; on the other hand, it might be that Sebald says what needs to be said, in just the way it has to be said; that it is difficult to follow Sebald because there is a certain emotional dusk or twilight that his prose produces that then inevitably calls forth a kind of night- one wants to silently dwell on the words and images, because they seem so fragile, almost sacred.
Per quanto riguarda l’altra questione, direi che questo libro è la quintessenza del romanzo, e che del genere ‘romanzo’ utilizza espedienti vari e ingegnosi: l’intreccio di materiali diversi (storia, riflessione filosofica, cronaca, fotografia, architettura, pittura, botanica, entomologia…), la ricerca-indagine, il cambiamento dei punti di vista (costantemente due, il narratore e Austerlitz, e di quando in quando, ne entra un terzo, Vera sopra tutti, ma anche altri testimoni/commentatori/portatori di informazioni che Austerlitz più o meno casualmente incontra e incrocia), le scatole cinesi, il racconto nel racconto… al punto che io per tutto il tempo della lettura ho avuto in mente film (“F For Fake” di Welles, “L'hypothèse du tableau volé”, e sempre di Ruiz, “Les trois couronnes du matelot” con quella incredibile fotografia di Sacha Vierny che da sola genera immagini e atmosfera e attesa) e Cortazar e…Se Sebald è rintracciabile nel narratore, in tutto o in parte, se invece sia Austelitz, o un mix dei due, che cosa cambia?
Sebald's Austerlitz is an austere but beautiful narrative within a narrative about identity and loss with the Holocaust as a looming backdrop.
The narrator (unnamed) records conversations with Joseph (Jacques) Austerlitz whom he meets a few times by chance and later at the whim of Austerlitz.
This secondary narrator talks about his life before discovering his origins and the incredible quest across the Czech Republic, Germany, and France to find memories of his mother and father.
There were moments that were soul-crushing but also moments of great Proustian beauty.
The hero of the book, or more properly the anti-hero since he essentially does nothing especially useful with his life, was born in Prague, the son of a moderately successful opera singer and the manager of a small slipper-making factory who was also active in left-wing politics.
But, at the same time and in a way that is highly distinctive, the book provides a strangely transcendent and hypnotic sense of the power of history, and of the relationship between an individual and the accidents of their life.
Austerlitz's own name seems to be working hard, with its associations of war; and indeed it's only a few central letters away from the most infamous Holocaust site of all – one that's never mentioned in this book but which can be intimated from comments about family members ‘sent east’.This is not a ‘Holocaust novel’ in the usual sense, though – its real subject is not exactly what happened in the middle of the last century, but rather how Europe can and should remember it (Europe as a whole – this is a novel that deliberately ranges over cities, and languages, from across the whole continent).
Il flusso dei pensieri vaga e ci porta in strane direzioni apparentemente senza ragione; ma c'è sempre una ragione, che improvvisamente prende forma.Tempo e memoria.Ogni costruzione, ogni edificio, ogni chiesa ogni castello trova la sua giustificazione d'essere nel passato, nelle sue origini, nei rapporti con il contesto, nei motivi che ne hanno decretato la necessità.
Ma nulla è eterno e queste costruzioni vengono spazzate via una volta che le persone coinvolte sono scomparse, crollano o sono semplicemente superate.Anche l'uomo è plasmato sulla base delle sue origini, sulla sua storia.Il protagonista del romanzo, Austerlitz, in un percorso originalissimo, passa il tempo a ricordare anche piccoli episodi, all'apparenza insignificanti o secondari.
Oppure il cimitero, con "statue di angeli, perlopiù senza ali o comunque mutilate, che parevano impietrite proprio nell'atto di spiccare il volo" .
E proprio a Parigi, su una tomba lungamente ricercata, scorge i nomi di due persone morte nel '44 ("morts en deportation"), dissolte "nell'aria grigia".
After the HolocaustThis extraordinary book is the inner narrative of an elderly adopted Englishman trying to recapture a childhood shattered by the Holocaust, and to come to grips with the resultant sickness of postwar Europe.
I cannot guarantee that readers from other backgrounds will feel such close identification with either Austerlitz or the book's unnamed narrator—except that one of the qualities which distinguishes a great novelist (as I believe Sebald to be) is the ability to make the reader identify with a character, no matter how different his background may be from one's own.
Αλλά ακόμα δεν έχω καταλάβει την τεχνική με την οποία δένει το υλικό του, ή πιο απλά τί ήρθε πρώτο η φωτογραφία, δηλαδή η εικόνα, ή το κείμενο; Γιατί πέρα από την κεντρική διήγηση του ήρωα που ψάχνει πληροφορίες για τους γονείς του, υπάρχουν πολλές μικρότερες και συντομότερες ιστορίες, πολύ χαλαρά δεμένες στον κορμό του έργου, στην ουσία είναι παρεκβάσεις από το κεντρικό θέμα, που, ωστόσο μέσα από τις φωτογραφίες, ή μάλλον χάρη σε αυτές, λειτουργούν σαν συνδετικοί κρίκοι και συνιστούν ένα ενιαίο και αριστοτεχνικά δεμένο σύνολο.
L'impianto fotografico contribuisce molto a sottolineare ed evidenziare i nodi cruciali del pensiero di Austerlitz e dei suoi punti di vista; non è per nulla una scelta di stile, è invece parte integrante del racconto dal momento in cui vi si sostiene che le foto vivono una vita propria con ricordi propri, è nelle foto (oltre che nella stazione ferroviaria) che il passato continua a vivere nella sua dimensione.
Come le immagini che si concretizzano sulla carta dal nulla durante lo sviluppo di foto in camera oscura."ogni volta mi ha incantato il momento in cui sulla carta impressionata si vedono emergere, per così dire dal nulla, le ombre della realtà, proprio come i ricordi, disse Austerlitz, che affiorano anch’essi in noi nel cuore della notte e, per colui che li vuole trattenere, tornano rapidamente a oscurarsi in modo non diverso da una stampa fotografica lasciata troppo a lungo nel bagno di sviluppo"Oscuro è il funzionamento del ricordo nel cuore dell'uomo.
He interspersed his almost paragraph-less narration with photographs of the places and people described in the story.
The old haunting black and white photographs plus the fluid story-telling (by an unknown narrator) of the atrocious Nazi era contributed tremendously to the melancholy that readers would surely feel as the history of Austerlitz true life unfolds.If only those concentration camps, railways, fortress can speak.
Sebald effectively provided the contrast between that longing and the cold walls of the concentration camps, railways and the almost always people-less photographs.
I wanted to imbibe more and enjoy each word now that I already know the complete story.
In this novel, Sebald discusses many aspects of personal memory and the re-telling of history as a cultural and culturally shaped technique, themes that are also central in the scientific works of Jan and Aleida Assmann who just yesterday received the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade.
I think it's very telling that experts on cultural memory receive a PEACE prize, as the way we face, frame and remember our personal and the historical past - especially the violent part of it - is instructive for our behavior and self-definition in the present.
Certainly, while Austerlitz’s childhood experience of being sent to England via Kindertransport away from his parents forms a locus for what little narrative drive there is, the themes of memory, contemporary European identity, and its peculiarly unique aesthetic vision are much more important as Austerlitz recounts his story.It may be the case that the perennial complaint of difficulty rests in the fact that its themes are so deeply intertwined with its pensive inwardness, its brooding style.
This novel is so resonant because Austerlitz’s experience is not the singular, independent story that it seems to be.
Sebald'a ilgi duymamın başlıca nedeni adının sık sık Thomas Bernhard ile birlikte anılmasıydı.
Daha ilk sayfalarda Sebald'ın Thomas Bernhard'dan çok farklı, çok daha kırılgan bir yazar olduğu belli oluyor.
Kendisini okumaya devam etmek için bir çok nedenim var artık.Austerlitz fazlasıyla kasvetli ve karmaşık bir kitap.
Sebald, kasvetli ve pürüzsüz bir düzlüğün üzerinde mekanlar, İkinci Dünya savaşı, holokost ve anılarla labirentler çizerek gerçek olaylarla kurgu arasındaki çizgiyi bulanıklaştırıyor.
Bütün bu ilişkiler, panoramik tasvirler, coğrafya ve zaman arasındaki gidip gelişler bir süre sonra beni yordu.
Üstelik tarifi zor bir anlatımı olduğu için sık sık dikkatim dağıldı.
Sebald'a başlamak için doğru kitap olmayabilir ancak izine zor rastlanır bir kitap olduğu kesin.
Not so much a narrative as a book length meditation on memory in all its forms, personal, cultural, collective. Sentences that are like whole landscapes, images that linger and resonate, a main character that will haunt me for weeks to come. This is one that lives up to all the praise it has garnered. Idiosyncratic, impressive and deeply unsettling.
Considero que Austerlitz es una aproximación a la memoria y sus procesos de desaparición, de recreación, de reescritura; una aproximación al mundo como archivo y todo lo que eso significa.Lo que sigue va a ser largo y va a ser ñoño, así que, en consideración a los que no tengan el tiempo ni las ganas, dejo en este párrafo un resumen corto.
Austerlitz es el apellido del personaje central de la novela, de nombre Jacques, quién ya en los años de su madurez decide intentar reconstruir el misterio de su origen, rastreando su genealogía para esforzarse en recuperar la memoria de su infancia en Praga, antes de que su madre decidiera enviarlo al extranjero para salvarle la vida frente a los avances del proyecto de la Alemania nazi.
Sacred: veneration revered, hallowed, is some of the ways the dictionary defines it, defines Sebald’s writing stretched in its own subconscious of the connections of words and letters.
The disconnection of memory, dammed in its own painful fear leaves Austerlitz in a search for himself.In the meetings over the years, unplanned, coincidental, the narrator let’s Austerlitz speaking his words of polished melancholia, as Sebald in his wisdom not style, allows his words to speak for themselves without his interference.
Sebald did not have to remove sentimentality from the sheen of Austerlitz’s spoken words.
I do not believe Sebald has found sentimentality in life or the world.
The call and rapprochement of human life against nature’s unrelenting cycle.

The framing device here is unusual, with the narrator (Sebald?) quoting long screeds of dialogue from a conversation with Jacques Austerlitz, whose story comprises the novel.
Both these devices are distracting—for the narrator to recall book-length dollops of conversation the interviews would need to be transcribed, and no mention is made of this occurring.
Likewise, the long dreamy sentences are forever punctuated with ‘ .
said Austerlitz’ to remind us we’re within a frame.This aside, Austerlitz is a dour meditation on unimaginable horrors, handled with exquisite tenderness and power.
Just as as in the last book I read, Far to Go, this is about those children who escaped Nazi cpntrolled countries through Kindertransport during WW2.
These two books are very differently written.
The book is about how Austerlitz discovers his past and about his need to know his past.Not only does the story lack normal grammatical techniques of writing, it focuses on one theme for many pages and then shifts to another for many, many pages.
I believe the more you know of the sciences and history and different fields of knowledge, the more you will be sucked into the book.
The writing was detailed and about many different topics.
The unnamed narrator shares the story of his acquaintance slowly and vaguely, almost like watching fog rolling in.
It’s incredibly moving to read how Austerlitz gradually unravels how he came to be the man he is and what his true history is.
I would be fascinated to learn more about how this was written, what parts are based on the author’s life and where the pictures came from.
I’ve never read anything like it before, and I’m convinced it needs to be read more than once to appreciate it fully.
Not an easy read, but this is one I will never forget.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2017.
Si trova ad affrontare la realtà accuratamente ignorata di un Europa in fiamme, invasa dalla furia di una crudeltà indicibile, che ha cancellato uomini e storie, come quella dei suoi genitori, cui non riesce a dare nemmeno un volto.Quando ci assale il ricordo, abbiamo talvolta l’impressione di vedere il tempo passato attraverso una montagna di vetroLa ricerca lo porta a Praga e si innesta un terzo piano narrativo, nella figura fondamentale di Vera, che riesce a far affiorare perfino i suoni di una lingua dimenticata.Il tempo si ritira in se stesso, Austerlitz compie un lacerante pellegrinaggio della memoria perduta.A mio giudizio, disse Austerlitz, noi non comprendiamo le leggi che regolano il ritorno del passato, e tuttavia ho sempre più l’impressione che il tempo non esista affatto, ma esistano soltanto spazi differenti, incastrati gli uni negli altri, in base a una superiore stereometria, fra i quali i vivi e i morti possono entrare e uscire a seconda della loro disposizione d’animo, e quanto più ci penso, tanto più mi sembra che noi, noi che siamo ancora in vita, assumiamo agli occhi dei morti l’aspetto di esseri irreali e visibili solo in particolari condizioni atmosferiche e di luce.
This has been a totally absorbing reread of this extraordinary and deeply reflective story on identity, memory and the loss of roots and family. It is without doubt one of those books that should be read more than once. Brilliantly translated by Anthea Bell, it is an intellectual feat and an emotional journey in either language. I have worked with it in both. Enriched by black/white photos, we find ourselves constantly moving between fact and fiction, at times in both at the same time.
Why the hell did I decide to read Holocaust fiction on Christmas Eve? Granted, this was a breathtaking book, but still.Page long sentences, reflections on memory, the past, architecture, ruins, history, atrocity, etc., etc. It's really good. Don't take my word for it with this review and just read it. Although preferably in a time when you can afford to be melancholy and brooding.
Un altro romanzo mitteleuropeo, solido e freddo come il continente, che non lascia niente alla leggerezza mache una volta terminato ti lascia arricchito.Stiamo parlando ancora una volta dell' Olocausto, il marchio che ancora brucia sopra quelle terre, ma questa volta esploro la landa poco conosciuta delle sofferenze di chi si salvò, ma ad un prezzo troppo alto.
Quando ci si rende conto di quanto è sottile il confine tra l' uomo e la bestia, tra un prato fiorito e l'abisso, è ancora possibile restare in pace?
Quem: um homem à procura da sua identidadeQuando: Segunda Guerra Mundial e anos posterioresOnde (Quem): a Europa e os lugares, onde as recordações ficaram cativas à espera que a memória as liberteA forma: monólogo ilustrado por fotografiasO conteúdo: a Memória o TempoO quê: uma obra-prima!Há mais de uma semana que ando a tentar dizer algo sobre este livro, e qualquer texto que escrevo me parece oco e tolo.
Por isso, fica aquela "coisa" escrevinhada no início - que não diz nada sobre a riqueza e originalidade desta obra - e a recomendação para pesquisarem outras opiniões.
A primeira parte de “Austerlitz” é, simultaneamente, desesperante e enigmática, pelas descrições arquitectónicas da viagem a Antuérpia, Bélgica e pela história da arquitectura, mas que surgem com enquadramento numa narrativa complexa, numa lógica de investigação académica.Depois Austerlitz empreende uma viagem sem retorno, um regresso ao passado e às suas origens familiares, numa investigação minuciosa e emblemática, delimitada pela ascensão do nazismo e pelas atrocidades cometidas contra os judeus e, obviamente, contra os seus familiares e contra si próprio, numa reflexão dolorosa de histórias pessoais que atormentam a nossa vida e os nossos sonhos.
While I think I liked 'The Rings of Saturn and 'The Emigrants' slightly better, Austerlitz is still a somber, stunning meditation on memory, loss and erasure.
Sebald's writing has an incredibly deft touch, other authors would just bludgeon you over the head with the horrors of European destruction, but his exploration of forgotten or overlooked spaces and marginal lives feels so much 'realer' somehow than a more traditional focus on major monolithic events and persons.
The innocuous photographs he brilliantly incorporates into his work take on a stunning radiance that feel all the more reel for how fragile they are.
dimenticare nella casa in campagna uno dei libri più intensi che mi sia capitato di leggere ultimamente è devastante.
austerlitz, cosa farai in quelle cento pagine che mi mancano?
e così, pian piano, spostandosi in un'europa quasi sospesa tra ieri e oggi- ritrova tasselli di vita che parevano dimenticati e invece erano solo in un angolo della sua anima.
tra foto, luoghi, volti ritrovati, sogni, agnizioni improvvise, coincidenze ed erudizioni (di austerlitz), ho fatto anche io un viaggio malinconico e meraviglioso, che mi ha totalmente rapita.
The story is told in retrospect by a much older Austerlitz who is now searching for the facts of his true heritage and who happens to find a very good listener in our narrator who repeats the story as told him.
I didn't mind the story per se, there is much about Europe's history, and architecture, and a grand assortment of other tangential facts.
There are also accompanying photo's that add to the "almost true" atmosphere of the tale.
It's a clever prose filled story with a shadows of the past atmosphere, but I found the delivery format way too distracting.
There are continuous episodes of memories triggered by the landscape or persons standing on train platforms.This is the kind of novel that has unique literary value in its approach and is studied in numerous college lit classes.
Austerlitz was speaking of Nuremberg here and expressing his sorrow , “Looking up at the facades of both sides of the street, even those of the older buildings which, judging by their style, must date from the fifteenth or sixteenth century, I was troubled to realize that I could not see a crooked line anywhere, not on the corners of the houses or on the gables, the window frames or the sills, nor was there any other trace of past history.” There are many other very descriptive lines.Of course the novel suffers from not having much of an engaging plot and was not my cup of tea but I found the literary potency of the author easy to acknowledge.
That, in a nutshell is the tragedy of the story of Jacques Austerlitz: this isolated, hyper introverted man, the observer of the outside of things (in the beginning of the book he talks incessantly about the architecture and construction history of what he sees around him), this man initially seems to live outside of time; but through his prolonged narrative he shows that – to his horror – he has discovered that he is inextricably linked to a very grave episode of human history, namely the Holocaust.
O discurso apesar de erudito e fluído, cria uma sessão de prisão, de repetição, sem movimento, como se nunca saísse do mesmo lugar...[Sugiro ler o resto com imagens em: http://virtual-illusion.blogspot.cz/2...]Reconheço que o trabalho é original, que existe aqui um esforço, mais académico mas talvez por isso menos emotivo, no sentido em que tudo parece demasiado refletido, pensado para produzir um determinado efeito, mais como se o livro fosse desenhado e não tivesse brotado criativamente.
The moments of illumination and beauty that are sprinkled throughout this book are as gorgeous as anything in writing.
Sebald has cleverly constructed a plot of repression, as several filters, both stylistic and narrative, separate us from the main plot of this book, which we desperately search for: Who is Austerlitz, and what is he running from?
Sebald's habitual use of photos was particularly strong here, as the images in the book are ascribed to characters we know are fictional, giving everything a surreal, ghostly tinge.This rating is testament to the limitations of the star system.
The little things (the dead moths, the horrible French library, the icy window pane) and the big moments will stay with me.
Avevo letto da qualche parte che Sebald è "scrittore autunnale", un po' umbratile, e in effetti è un romanzo che mi ha letteralmente spiazzato per cotanta profondità.La storia è molto semplice e lineare: Jacques Austerlitz è un professore di storia dell'architettura, abita a Londra nella quasi più completa solitudine.
Non a caso il romanzo è corredato da un gran numero di fotografie, delle piccole foto in bianco e nero, quasi sfocate, che non sono solo un appendice, ma parte integrante del romanzo stesso, oltre ad avere un grande potere evocativo.
O poder que emana da narrativa faz com que, ajudado pelas fotografias que vamos vendo, façamos a construção da memória de um homem, de uma vida que tinha tudo para ser, mas não o foi.
Uma vida pautada pela arquitectura, por viagens de comboio, fotografias que se tornam memórias e o espectro de um Holocausto sempre presente.
É uma leitura que chega a ser difícil por ser cheia de erudição e emoções fortes, com o intuito de nos desorientar como se nos perdêssemos no labirinto da memória, perdendo noção de tempo e espaço, conforme o próprio Austerlitz faz.
“I think how little we can hold in mind, how everything is constantly lapsing into oblivion with every extinguished life, how the world is, as it were, draining itself, in that the history of countless places and objects which themselves have no power of memory is never heard, never described or passed on.”This is a story of the holocaust.
It is a specific story of one boy whose family is shattered and of his attempts to piece it back together from memories and from the objects, the cities, the architecture that remains.
http://msarki.tumblr.com/post/7290891...I love the way Max Sebald writes.
I have never read anyone so gifted at lulling one to sleep and slowly, unhurriedly, in some leisurely way, unsuspectingly knocking our heads off at the very same time.
And this is the first time Sebald ever failed to excite me.
The character of Austerlitz left me feeling nothing for him.
But I kept bracing for liftoff and it just never occurred.
I actually got a bit stressed and tense being so eager for it all to surely, eventually, occur.
This ends my study of Max Sebald.
Instead I found myself battling my way through three layers of reported speech and multiple framing devices only to find a relatively dull narrative trying so hard to be profound it ended up pretentious and preachy.
For the most part, I enjoyed the tone of the novel; the writing is erudite and relatively engaging… but nothing much happens.
For me, Sebald needed a more engaging plot - his preachy pensive outlook completely overwhelmed any interest the story may have held.
"Irgendwann in der Vergangenheit, dachte ich, habe ich einen Fehler gemacht und bin jetzt in einem falschen Leben" Bereits in Die Ringe des Saturn, ist mir die enge Verknüpfung in W.G. Sebalds Prosa, von Geographie und Erinnerung aufgefallen. Es sind stets Bauwerke oder Landschaften, die als Ausgangspunkt für Erkundungsgänge in die Vergangenheit der Protagonisten dienen. Auch die Geschichte des sich selbst so rätselhaften Jaques Austerlitz, entwickelt sich entlang geographischer Linien. Es ist
Bereits in Die Ringe des Saturn, ist mir die enge Verknüpfung in W.G. Sebalds Prosa, von Geographie und Erinnerung aufgefallen.
Es sind stets Bauwerke oder Landschaften, die als Ausgangspunkt für Erkundungsgänge in die Vergangenheit der Protagonisten dienen.
Auch die Geschichte des sich selbst so rätselhaften Jaques Austerlitz, entwickelt sich entlang geographischer Linien.
Es ist ein Vordringen in das Unterbewusstsein, um den Kern der eigenen Identität freizulegen.
Immer wieder ruft der Anblick bestimmter Gebäude oder Landschaftsmerkmale, vage Erinnerungsbilder und Ahnungen bei Austerlitz hervor.
Aus diesen oft traumgleichen Erinnerungssequenzen, entwickelt sich allmählich das Bild einer verdrängten Herkunft, die eng mit den großen geschichtlichen Brüchen des 20.
