https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130810.Diving_Into_the_Wreck
These poems range across shifting tropes such as ecological destruction, commodification, Vietnam, dreams and violence to showcase Rich's belief that the domestic scene is as much a prison as the Hanoi Hotel, except the torture here is being administered specifically on the psyches of women by all the socially acclimated cyborgs, with their gender roles callously installed at an early age and their mass-produced parts clicking and whirling, every one of them leading lives as sinister as a hive mind horde and as banal as a commercial seen for the thousandth time.
WOW.I was thinking of writing some brilliant review to follow up the madness of inspiration banging around in my head after a day of reading.
But Rich uses metaphors like atom bombs.
Rich expresses the confines of prescribed roles are such that they squelch the individual.
I think the subject to be a bit more complicated than that.Despite this, it was never enough to shut me out of her writing completely.
The power of her writing more than earns her the right to voice these terrors that were eating away at her.
When Diving Into the Wreck co-won the the 1974 National Books Award for Poetry (shared with Allen Ginsberg's  The Fall of America ) Rich refused to accept the award alone, instead accepting the award accompanied by two other female nominees, Alice Walker (nominated for  Revolutionary Petunias: And Other Poems ) and Audre Lorde (nominated for  From a Land Where Other People Live ). In her acceptance speech, Rich stated that she was accepting the award on behalf of all woman "whose voices have gon
11*She sits with one hand poised against her head, theother turning an old ring to the lightfor hours our talk has beatenlike rain against the screensa sense of August and hear-lightingI get up, go to make tea, come backwe look at each otherthen she says (and this is what I live throughover and over) - she says: I do not knowif sex is an illusionI do not know who I was when I did those thingsor who I said I wasor whether I willed to feelwhat I had read aboutor who in fact was there with meor whether I knew, even thenthat there was doubt about these things- Dialogue, pg.
I've read some of Adrienne Rich's poetry before, but not all. I came across this by chance in the library today, and decided to bring it home -- I knew Diving into the Wreck itself, but not all of the other poems. They're powerful, painful, beautiful. There are only a couple that didn't really speak to me.
This poet takes risks on every page as she examines the struggles of women as she felt them in the early 1970s. She does not hold back with her reflections, many of which I reread to comprehend all of the layers. I am so glad this book was recommended to me.
I'm so glad the National Book Foundation drew my attention to Adrienne Rich.
I wasn't familiar with her work, but I loved this short book of political, emotional, intense poems.
I said in an e-mail to a friend that I wanted to take them along with me on a solitary road trip, and I think that is because I think they go very deep and I want to read them again and reflect on them.
I don’t think I understood or appreciated this as much as I wanted to.
I sensed a profundity under the surface that escaped my grasp.
My favorite individual poem was the multi-part “Meditations for a Savage Child,” inspired by the Wild Boy of Aveyron.
What a punch to the gut. This is feminist poetry that is a must-read for members of both sexes. Some of the powerful imagery conveyed here by Rich is etched into my mind, not soon to be forgotten. I'm sorry it took me this long to get around to reading her, but better late than never.

When I was a young thing, I would save my pennies to buy everything Adrienne published. This is the pivotal book of poetry, the turning point from the earlier (and beautiful) formal poems into the rough territory of heart and world through which the later books move. Stellar.
Gaargh wonderful. More powerful and relevant than ever right now.
Diving Into the Wreck is a collection of Adrienne Rich's poems written between 1971 and 1972.
I didn't love every poem, but I certainly admired them all.
Diving Into the Wreck is filled to the brim with strength after strength, and I'd certainly love to read more of her poetry.'This is the place.
/ And I am here, the mermaid whose dark hair / streams black, the merman in his armored body / We circle silently / about the wreck / we dive into the hold.
/ I am he.'(From 'Diving Into the Wreck')
Exasperating and bleak poetry cycles about gender struggle and body politics. Not my usual parvenu, but I appreciated hearing this voice. On the bus.
Does the primeval forest / weep / for its devourers / does nature mourn / our existence
SHE REALLY JUST DIDN'T PULL ANY FUCKING PUNCHES HUH
"...to feel the fiery future of every matchstick in the kitchen" or"while we sit up smoking and talking of how to live, he turns on the bed and murmurs"or"...the fire you want to go to bed from but cannot leave, burning down but not burnt down."The word "burning" appears 14 times in this collection, most memorably for me in the perfect poem, Song, that describes the writer's loneliness as being "wood with a gift for burning."One poem contains one of the most scathing indictments I've encountered:"This morning you left the bedwe still shareand went out to spread impotenceupon the worldI hate you.I hate the mask you wear, your eyesassuming a depththey do not possess, drawing meinto the grotto of your skullthe landscape of boneI hate your wordsthey make me think of fake revolutionary billscrisp imitation parchmentthey sell at battlefields."One powerful poem of a different type is dedicated to a Soviet dissident, Natalya Gorbanevskaya.
While I do read modern poetry from time to time, I consider myself a more naive reader of verse than any other genre.
In fact, I can't think of any work of modern poetry, including works by more iconic- and male- poets than Rich, that I found as rewarding.
Perhaps order, society, is bound to sink into the abyss no matter what form it takes, but this does not discount moments of joy and intimacy between women, between humans, before the disaster strikes.
Finally got the combination of time and nerve to take on this landmark of American poetry, and was rewarded with a glimpse into the infinite.
This book is ferocious in the way that early P.J. Harvey is ferocious: both feminine and feminist, full of rage and mysticism and sadness, a fearless, avenging voice of the dispossessed, a wail of freedom and grief.
What strikes me about the poetry here is that it manages to be polemical, in a way, while also being effortlessly metaphorical; in other words, it has, I think, real organic political force, without the clumsiness that mars almost all such didactic verse.
I've recently made an effort to read more poetry, something that I haven't done since school really.
So I'm far from being a poetry expert and judging what makes good poetry.
But I did love this collection from Rich.
Yes, it's very political, radically political.
Yes it's very feminist, radically feminist perhaps.
And yes it is very personal (I think).
Do all these things make good poetry.
There are better poems and there are worse poems in this collection.
But forcing myself to read and enjoy poetry is not very difficult when these are the read.
I love this book. I was going to quote from it, but there are too many perfectly stated moments. "wood / with a gift for burning." Clean and methodical, but so flipping passionate. I feel like I just cast the starring role in the movie that will be my comps essay.
"Is there a law about this, a law of nature?You worship the bloodyou call it hysterical bleedingyou want to drink it like milkyou dip your finger into it and writeyou faint at the smell of ityou dream of dumping me into the sea."
I feel a tremendous debt to Adrienne Rich. She was a smart woman with a strong voice at a time when such a thing was considered iconoclastic. This collection of poems cuts right to the core.
A punch in the gut. Political, cynical, urgent.
Her death sent me back to this book, which changed my life like twenty years ago. Reading the title track brought tears to my eyes. So much ferocity paired with so much empathy.
Slayed me.
3.5"—tell it over and over, the wordsget thick with unmeaning—yet never have we been closer to the truthof the lies we were living."
I am the androgyneI am the living mind you fail to describein your dead languagethe lost noun, the verb survivingonly in the infinitivethe letters of my name are written under the lidsof the newborn childfrom "The Stranger"Moments of vibrant clarity like the above split about 50/50 with moments that are either less vibrant or less clear.
Frequent themes include recognizing and surviving damage; understanding yourself rather than accepting the judgement of others; sisterhood; the difficulty or impossibility of happiness in a heterosexual relationship, and the contrast between daily life and the horrors of the Vietnam war.
The highlight of the collection is "Diving into the Wreck," in which scuba diving into a sunken ship is a metaphor for exploring tragic memories.
"the trash/burning endlessly in the dump/to return to heaven like a stain" and "souvenirs of what I once described/as happiness", and in the third part, "Here is the matrix of need and anger, the disproof of what we thought possible/failures of medication/doubts of another's existence").Each poem is a dark gem that lingers and embeds itself in your mind.The title poem keeps the pace tight and picks up the book from what might have been a lull.
"The Phenomenology of Anger" was amazing and each line was like little sparks that slowly caught your mind on fire, growing hotter with each word.
I'm perpetually torn with Rich.
There's a studied, formal quality to even her mid-career, furious work - and I rarely enjoy tight-wound poetry, at least on a sort of affective level.
My other frustration with Rich is that she can envision striking images, but so many of her poems seem to me to be endless series of absolutely disconnected images, and not in a surrealist, avant-garde way, either.
Just disjointed attempts at stating the same idea again and again, which can be tedious.
And obviously, the title poem is worth the price of admission alone.
For that poem I'll always give Rich another chance.
I rated this book 5 stars because each poem is insightful in its own way with metaphors and descriptions that are both mystical and easy to understand. Adrienne Rich also writes many poems of feminism and the harmful patriarchy; this book thus becomes a safe place for women. This is a book of poetry about a woman understanding both women and men.
