https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22551730-dead-wake
And we also catch many glimpses of the U.S. president, Woodrow Wilson, a widower who is distracted by a new (and ultimately, enduring) love affair that diverts his attention from the world stage.The book is filled with questions worth asking: why did the Admiralty not provide an escort to the Lusitania, given that the ship carried a vital cargo of ammunition and artillery shells?
And one last question remains: did the Lusitania, in fact, cause the U.S. to enter the war or was there more to the story?
”He saw the body of the torpedo moving well ahead of the wake, through water he described as being ‘a beautiful green.’ The torpedo ‘was covered with a silvery phosphorescence, you might term it, which was caused by the air escaping from the motors.’He said, ‘It was a beautiful sight.’” The last known photo of the Lusitania.The term unsinkable had been obliterated from references regarding great ocean liners after the Titanic sunk in 1912. The impossible had already happened. In 1915 the Lusitan
Captain William Thomas Turner was not too worried about the Germans, despite the increase in the number of ships being sunk.
Captain William Thomas Turner in that fateful year 1915.I was somewhat baffled at the number of people still choosing to travel through an aggressive war zone.
I hope he got a f**king plaque.I, for many years, like many Americans, thought that the sinking of the Lusitania was the impetus for getting America in the war.
So many things had to go wrong for the Lusitania to come under the cold, calculating eyes of Schwieger and the gunsights of U-Boat 20.
Dead Wake is named a 2015 notable non fiction book by the Washington Post   The track lingered on the surface like a long pale scar. In maritime vernacular, the trail of fading disturbance, whether from ship or torpedo, was called a “dead wake.” On May 7, 1914, only a few years after that most famous of ocean-liners had had an unfortunate encounter with an iceberg on its maiden voyage, RMS Lusitania, popularly referred to as “Lucy,” having already crossed the Atlantic dozens of times, this time
On May 7, 1914, only a few years after that most famous of ocean-liners had had an unfortunate encounter with an iceberg on its maiden voyage, RMS Lusitania, popularly referred to as “Lucy,” having already crossed the Atlantic dozens of times, this time carrying 1,962 souls, was sunk by a German U-boat off the Irish coast.
Room 40 - from Lusitania.netOne thing Larson does is follow the narrative of several of the passengers aboard the big boat.
The descriptions of life aboard the sub are compelling; information about the physical realities of the Lusitania is fascinating, and looking at the probable decision-making involved is enraging.
Larson writes wonderful narrative non fiction, and in this book he has surpassed his own self.
The amount of research that went into this book is staggering.
It doesn't just cover the bombing of the Lusitania, it covers everything going once at the time and more.What it is like inside a submarine, the roles of the crew members, how it feels and even how it smells.
What the ship looked like, inside and out, the decorations, the food, the labor involved.
By the end of the book, I had a clear and concise picture of so many things I had never knew before.
Giving a day-to-day account of living in Nazi Germany wasn’t good enough so he had to put half the focus on a promiscuous American woman and her boring father in Berlin.So this time out we’ve got the sinking of the Lusitania, a fascinating historical event about which many intriguing questions remain to this day, and yet a good chunk of this book is spent detailing how President Wilson found love again after the death of his first wife.
When I came across a radio interview with Erik Larson, talking about his new Lusitania book, Dead Wake, I knew I had to have it.
Larson also spends a great deal of time with Captain Turner, the Lusitania’s master – like Captain Smith, an old sea dog who never learned a new trick – and the U-20’s commander, Walter Schwieger.
In maritime vernacular, this trail of fading disturbance, whether from ship or torpedo, was called a “dead wake.”I mentioned above that Larson focuses his narrative on a small number of passengers.
Published to coincide with the 100th Anniversary in May of this great Maritime tragedy I think this book will inform a whole new generation about a tragedy about an important event in History.The book is extremely well researched and supported by extensive references and notes.
We also learn a little about the passengers on board the Lusitania but I never got emotionally attached to the characters and this worked well as the book was about facts and events and providing the reader with enough information to form an opinion as to how a ship like the Lusitania ended its voyage in such tragic circumstances.
Captain Turner did conduct at least one drill with the crew for deploying the boats, but Cunard did not focus on passenger safety in the event of an emergency.No one believed that the Germans would actually sink a passenger boat, as this went counter to previous rules of engagement.One wonders whether the British government deliberately allowed the Lusitania to be destroyed to force America to enter World War I.
Nobody was taking warning signs serious....let alone be preventive- in - the areas of 'all' safety, to the level we would expect.
All the events leading up to the ships final crossing was energizing.
I found it absolutely fascinating reading the details about the ship - the submarine - William Thomas Turner, ( his professional growth to well respected and qualified Captain of the Lusitania), and his personal life at home.
- the ship- the crew- the submarine- the passengers- ...the suspense in which the story unfolded...Mostly I'm left with sadness at how many opportunities were missed...
It is about an event, the torpedo sinking of the British steamship passenger liner, the Lusitania, in 1915 by a German submarine.
I don't need to know a passenger's ticket number or that Mr. X wore a pink vest or the dimensions of a book brought on board.
This book is written in such a manner as to increase suspense and excitement.
Many passengers chose the Lusitania because of the boat’s speed.
I liked the book but I didn't REALLY love it, so I stick with my three stars.The audiobook is narrated by Scott Brick.
This is a fascinating book about the sinking of the Lusitania, the British ocean liner that was torpedoed by a German submarine in May 1915.
I didn't know much about the Lusitania before I read this book, but I should have because it was one of the critical events that pushed America to enter World War I.What Erik Larson does well is to put the Lusitania event in the context of history: the reader gets a good sense of what was happening in the war, and we understand why the attack on a civilian passenger ship was so shocking.
(three German stowaways also perished)Interesting: Larson's work of non-fiction captures the day-to-day activities of various passengers as well as the Lusitania's competent and brave Captain William Thomas Turner and the aggressive, villaneous German predator of the U-20 submarine, Captain Walther Schwieger who repeatedly targeted innocent passenger liners and merchant ships to destruction.Maddening: As you will see, there were many variables that could have changed history and averted this horrific disaster.....(view spoiler)[ departure delays....fog....orders for reduction in speed....lack of a naval escort thru known dangerous waters....the recalled rescue ship so close at hand, and....worst of all, the Room 40 cover-ups that could have saved so many lives.
Setting the scene of actual world events as the ship leaves New York harbor, Larson delves deep into the complex back stories of not only the ship's captain but the German submarine commander who would ultimately end up being the person responsible for firing the torpedo that inflicted the fatal blow to the ship itself.
Various passengers aboard the Lusitania are described (some at great lengths) and even the relationships of world leaders such as a very young Winston Churchill and United States President Woodrow Wilson are studied in depth as to their roles within the greater story itself.At times somewhat disjointed, the story itself is told at a brisk enough pace to keep the reader interested and the pages turning at a fast clip.
After this I’m certain I read a book about the Lusitania though for the life of me I can’t remember if it was fiction or not.
When I heard that one of my favorite authors, Eric Larson was going to cover this subject in Dead Wake: The Last Crossing of the Lusitania I was in.
I knew some things about the ill-fated Lusitania but learned a great deal more in my reading of Dead Wake.
Passenger C.R. Minnitt, in a letter he wrote aboard ship, told his wife how he climbed to the highest deck and stood near one of the ship’s four towering funnels to best capture the moment.
Everybody loved this but me! I'm flashing back to The Martian. I found this extremely boring and painful. A tragic story and very well-researched, but this one did what no other book before it has done...it actually put me to sleep. I fell asleep while reading. Enough said. Zzzzzz. 2 stars.
In short, I was hooked.” Most everything I knew about the Lusitania/WWI (gleaned from public school and collegian textbooks) has turned out to be watered down half-truths, at best.
“A friend is someone who knows all about you and still loves you.” After reading this book, that’s quite a thought-provoking adage, in more ways than one.
I would like to thank Erik Larson, Crown Publishing, and Goodreads; I received this ARC directly from the publisher, free, through Goodreads First-Reads giveaways, with the expectation of writing a fair and honest review.
Driving back from a vacation to Tampa Bay followed by having to mow my lawn after 10 days away allowed me to finish this 13 hour audiobook in about 24 hours.Also, it is a Scott Brick audio which is a huge bonus!Larson does it again with an intriguing look into a major event in history.
It is well researched and he does a great job integrating other anecdotes of the time to create a picture of America before they joined WWI and the antagonism between England and Germany early on during the war.
Wrenching and riveting. I'm a big fan of Erik Larson, and he is seriously on top of his game with "Dead Wake." His analysis of all the elements that had to conspire for the ship to sink is at once poignant and smart.
Ο Λάρσον ερευνά και ασχολείται με όλα τα καίρια ζητήματα: πώς βυθίστηκε το μεγαλύτερο και ταχύτερο εμπορικό πλοίο της εποχής του; Γιατί κανείς δεν ενημέρωσε τον πλοίαρχο Τέρνερ ότι μετά τον απόπλου του Λουζιτάνια είχαν τορπιλιστεί ήδη άλλα δύο επιβατηγά πλοία και γιατί δεν του δόθηκαν οδηγίες για να αλλάξει την πορεία του πλοίου; Ήταν όλα μια άτυχη στιγμή, μια σειρά κακών χειρισμών ή μια τραγωδία που εσκεμμένα δεν αποφεύχθηκε με απώτατο στόχο την εμπλοκή των ΗΠΑ στον πόλεμο;Ένα πολύ ωραίο βιβλίο.
All I know is that whenever the story went back to Wilson and his pining courtship of Galt (interspersed with meditative car rides and daily rounds of golf), I rolled my eyes, immediately checked the "__ minutes left in chapter" gauge, and read as fast as I could.The device seemed to mimic the cross-cutting edit technique used by D.W. Griffith, especially in Intolerance, zipping back and forth between different players to ramp up the tension as the climax builds and unfolds, but I didn't find it as cinematically compelling on the page.There's a soapy, trashy novel by David Butler called, unsurprisingly enough, Lusitania.
The British intelligence service and government leaders withhold knowledge of the heightened German submarine activity in British waters in the secret hopes that an American vessel will be attacked by Germany, forcing the United States to declare war.Although Lusitania Captain William Thomas Turner receives no direct warnings of eminent danger from the British government until the ship enters the Irish Sea, the Lusitania is considered a transatlantic greyhound, a new class of marine vessel easily able to out run any submarine.
Alfred Vanderbilt not going on the Titanic despite having a ticket, and then dying on the Lusitania (by the way, the Vanderbilt Estate in Asheville, NC had an interesting exhibit about the Vanderbilts and the Titanic yet I do not remember them mentioning this key detail!) - this is one example of many, and as far as this book is almost like a gossip mag, these bits were the juiciest.Outside of the research, the writing has some great moments, where I can picture Larson typing a sentence and feeling proud of it.
I couldn’t put down Dead Wake, Larson’s gripping narrative of the 1915 sinking of the Lusitania. The story shifts from aboard the great ship to the U-boat that would destroy it, to London’s admiralty offices and Wilson’s White House – providing details political and personal while the tension builds. It’s a fascinating account of this tragic event. I read an advance copy; pub date is in March 2015.
I was interested in the topic (for decades I’ve been interested in the Titanic) and knew I’d previously enjoyed books by this author so I was excited to read the book as an informal buddy read in my favorite Goodreads group.
I love this author’s writing style; his nonfiction books are great for readers who think they don’t enjoy nonfiction.
I recommend if reading this book going in as ignorant as possible and resisting urges to do research until after finishing the book – even looking up maps, deck plans, and definitely people provided spoilers I’d rather have done without.
I have sometimes found reading non-fiction to be a chore, even when I'm very interested in the subject.
He has the ability to tell his story in a very smooth style - almost fiction-like - and he gave me a good understanding of the time period.
Steamship travel used to be the way of travel in and out of Ketchikan, so I knew from some of the old-timers that going to meet the steamer was part of life here - the same sort of event as the 1914 departure of this great ship.During the voyage itself, we get to know some of the passengers.
Then the second passes and reader and passenger are wrenched from that scene of pastoral beauty into a Boschian chaos of twisted metal and broken bodies.It is this great storyteller’s ability to take dry words from telegrams, court depositions and government reports and turn them into lenses that we can use to see, and even relive, the past that makes Larson one of the very few authors whose books I would preorder sight unseen.
The review book was based on an advanced reading copy obtained at no cost from the publisher in exchange for an unbiased review.
In this book, the subject appeals to me as well since it gets less attention than the sinking of the Titanic but has much more historic significance.
The Lusitania, carrying 189 American passengers in her total count of 2,000 souls aboard, was the largest and fastest of the Cunard Line luxury ships and departed New York on May 1st, 1915 for Liverpool, England.
He also attempts to answer the question as to why this incident did not bring the US into the War. I highly recommend this book.Note: I have been to the Old Head of Kinsale in the Republic of Ireland and visited the monument which commemorates the sinking of the Lusitania.
Erik Larson makes history come alive once again.
Larson's research is intense and encompassing, and he packages and delivers this fascinating account in a very readable form.Larson breathes life into the passengers of this ill-fated voyage through survivor memories and correspondence, the ways people packed, what they brought, and why they were traveling.
It's an interesting look at life as it was one hundred years ago.
The best compliment I can pay Erik Larson is that I feel compelled to look up more about the Lusitania.
He provided just the right amount of information to get many people interested in further reading.Bravo!
Dead Wake not only tells the story of the sinking and great loss of life, but also about the politics, military decisions and mistakes that led to the ship sailing without escort in a war zone.
This book gives so many interesting facts about the world situation at the time, shipping and war zone issues and the actual event.
With U-Boats actively attacking merchant ships and military vessels with success, it is astounding to me that the Lusitania was allowed to sail that course into the war zone with no escort, no orders to divert to a safer route or to sail in a zig zag pattern.
Alter one small part of this story, the timing of the departure, the speed maintained, even the endurance of the fog, and the Lusitania sails into the Liverpool docks instead of into the history books.Perhaps it takes a strong, callous heart to persevere in war, but there was a kind of cold-blooded heartlessness in so many of these people that it made me cringe.
And, in the end, that is what history is--not the story of lands, or the story of things, but the story of people, individuals, great and small, who have struggled and lived and died and left a moment of significance behind.
