https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7147831-min-kamp-1
A small shower of dandruff landed on the keyboard, and I wondered if I ought to change to a different brand of shampoo, but I had recently bought five bottles of Garnier Extra Mild, which were still sitting on the right-hand side of the cupboard under the bathroom sink, just behind a blue and white packet of paper tissues.
I felt a sudden connection to the person I had been then, and saw my father, now dead, looking at me as I dragged my spoon through the viscous syrup, stirring it into small waves and curlicues as it gradually diffused into the cooling porridge.
”But Dad was no longer breathing. That was what had happened to him, the connection with the air had been broken, now it pushed against him like any other object, a log, a gasoline can, a sofa. He no longer poached air, because that is what you do when you breathe, you trespass, again and again you trespass on the world.” I first met Karl Ove Knausgaard while watching an interview he gave to BBC. He has all this barely tamed hair surrounding a face that conveys peaceful reflection. He has dramat
Karl Ove is obsessed with his father, and therefore by extension, he is obsessed with himself.
He can’t like himself until he figures out what it was that made his father so indifferent.
It was certainly a lesson for me and reading about Karl Ove’s grandmother reinforced my own need to be attentive to my older relatives.
I can look at the books on their shelves.Karl Ove has an addictive personality, and drinking and smoking is not spoken in terms of having one or two, but in having multitudes until he is somewhere beyond drunk and his throat is raw with smoke.
I lay on the beige textile corner sofa thinking that I should start writing my review for A Death InThe Family, My Struggle Part 1.
I start to unwrap each juicy orange bit and put them in a bowl to take with me.
I start to type a few words while eating the orange.
However, Knausgaard writes in the same excruciating detail about all sorts of mundane stuff and I was never bored (almost) while reading this almost 500 pages memoir.
A man of who likes to be alone and is afraid to talk to people but writes a 7 volume memoir about himself.
Karl Ove Knausgaard - Norwegian novelist born in 1968This first volume of the author's novel captures episodes in his life, usually as a boy growing up but sometimes events in his twenties and thirties and also reflections as he writes in his forties, through a particular lens: the poignant emotions and heart-break of a teenager.
An Everyman of the 21st century with a 17th century temperament.The second volume of this autobiography, which tackles the fire and vagaries of love as well as the deep ambivalences that lie at the heart of domestic life and parenthood, is utterly engrossing.Read him, and listen to him below speak about Book 1, which deals with his youth and the death of his father, and he might very well change the way you look at the world around you and your own reaction to events.http://youtu.be/1ODhM41VOYg
The only way I could continue reading and find it believable was to devise some theories as to how he remembered these details.
Here are my theories about how Knausgaard constructed the details in this book: •	He knew he was going to write this novel from a very early age and therefore set about remembering and notating every single detail of his life, mundane or not.
Genius.•	His memory failed him and he couldn’t remember anything, except for the major incidences, and therefore was forced to make up all the details, and every single minor observation is fiction.
Knausgaard uses these forms, or creates this form, in his novel that he fills with his own memories and history and soon you are seeing yourself in these same locks.
He talks about this about half way through the book:"For several years I had tried to write about my father, but had gotten nowhere, probably because the subject was too close to my life, and thus not so easy to force into another form, which of course is a prerequisite for literature.
That is why writers with strong style often write bad books.
That is also why writers with strong themes so often write bad books.
the thought that (spoiler) you, me, and everyone we know, ever will know, and/or ever will know of, will end up an inanimate object seems preposterously unfair and, conversely, is what drives me to live-it-the-hell-up in my pitifully brief time on this less-than-a-speck-of-dust in our expanding universe.
And that there was no longer any difference between what once had been my father and the table he was lying on, or the floor on which the table stood, or the wall socket beneath the window, or the cable running to the lamp beside him.
It was a sense of bewilderment at the utter banality that is the immediate surface of this project of Knausgaard’s that at first had me thinking “I’m not going to be able to see this book through” and questioning not only whether it was worth my time but actually was it worth his, all this writing?
He is not these writers; don’t go looking for them here.But if you do decide to read this book, don’t give up on it until you have proceeded deeply into Part Two, because Knausgaard, unconcerned with winning you right away, really comes to life in Part Two, when he is in closest proximity to Death.
The author was accused of every thing imaginable, of being ungrateful sonofbitch that fouls own nest, that he was hypocrite and megalomaniac, that he hurt own family in hope of making money, that he did it to win plaudits, that he can’t write and the book is rubbish and pure graphomania and much more like that.
I thought it was painfuly honest and gritty, excruciatingly intimate family portrait.I don’t mind that kind of writing though I don’t feel it’s necessary to write about almost every cup of tea or bottle of beer or meal or shower or lighting cigarette but it didn’t feel fatiguing either.
(I find this more convincing and clearer than the longer review by William Deresiewicz, " Why Has ‘My Struggle’ Been Anointed a Literary Masterpiece?" The Nation, May 13, 2014.)I am surprised at how widely it's being accepted that Knausgaard is a major novelist -- or, in Lerner's assessment, a largely successful anti-novelist, who is out to end the novel and literature in general by avoiding selection.
For me Lerner's way of putting things raises two questions, both of which cannot be definitively answered for English-language readers until the final 3 volumes are translated.
(I note that the first question is separate from the possibility, which Lerner ponders, that the book might conclude with death, and therefore conclude as literature: the question pertains to the strategy itself, not whether this 6-volume project succeeds.
Woods is such a perspicacious reader that I fear somehow I've read a different My Struggle or that he's read a different one, or that I'm in a parallel universe where my struggle with my Struggle is not the same as everyone elses - everyone else having from it, like, significant insights into the human condition, deep engagement with fictionalised wisdom, harrowing journeys into grief and sadness, the soul eclipsing throes of love, the constancy and Love for family etc., the sadness of growing older, etc etc.The reason I say this, is that My Struggle Part 1 (AKA, in the UK 'A Death in the Family') was pretty damn bad.
E poi, appunto, la morte del padre, che occupa in buona parte la seconda metà del volume.Tutto memorabile?
Se scrivi più di 3000 pagine divise in 6 volumi su una vita abbastanza ordinaria arrivi inevitabilmente a lungaggini e momenti infiniti che si potevano ridurre a qualche paragrafo.
E quindi ti devi sorbire, un po’ alla volta, tutti i momenti della sua vita che nel frattempo ti sei perso.E ad un certo punto capisci che da tutto questo ordinario non hai più voglia di staccarti.
Che è come se qualcuno ti stesse raccontando la tua, di vita.Intervallati ai ricordi ci sono anche i momenti dell’oggi (ovvero del 2008).
With Knausgård it might just be the ambition behind this series: a six-part autobiography.Nevertheless, though his writing is interspersed with poignant and cutting remarks about life, death, love, family, and other highly universal and relatable themes, there is no denying this is a boring story.
It's boring because it's a regular man telling a regular story about his upbringing in Norway between the 1970's and 80's.
But he decides to tell his story anyway.
I did find myself more interested in his earlier life, and when the book changed directions about 1/3 of the way through I was a bit disappointed.
A couple nights ago the current issue of The New Yorker popped up on my iPad; I idly scrolled to the review of this book by James Wood.
I walked over and picked it up even though it was almost 10 pm – and started reading.James Wood calls My Struggle "morbidly compelling" and that is exactly right.
It seems to be a memoir – and according to Wood, it is scandalously based on Knausgård's own life and family – but there's no way its depth of detail could be "remembered" any more than Proust's great book.
I look from my Kindle and see the bowl of fruit on the table in front of me.
The counter on my Kindle tells me there are four hours and forty-seven minutes left in the book.
Moose, NORGE, and the tea inside the mug are of the same color – a dark brown.
You've been read like an open book, page by pageYou'll never tell anyone your inner thoughts againYou were taken in by a heart of fools goldNow you're drifting in circles in the depths  of your soul
In the midst of the most important work so far and my father's illness becomes mine in a way.
Während ich dem sich nach rechts ausbreitenden Balken der Startprogramm-Fortschrittsanzeige bei seiner Veränderung zusah, strichen meine Finger über die moderne Tastatur und ich erinnerte mich, wie ich auf der Olympus damals meine Wehrdienstverweigerung tippte, mit den abrutschenden Fingern immer mal wieder zwischen den Tasten der Schreibmaschine hängen blieb, was zu Hautabschürfungen und der Verwendung eines Tippex-Streifens führte.
Die Form des Buchs ist klar strukturiert und wie ein Musikstück aufgebaut, bei dem der Komponist immer wieder zum eigentlichen Thema zurückfindet und am Ende einen dort abholt, wo er einen zu Beginn hat stehen lassen.
Undeniably he is a good writer, and his observations, though sometimes tediously conveyed, are often astute gems of human insight, which elevate this book from an autobiography, to a text that possesses philosophical musings and reads like a well-polished novel.Something that initially irritated me was the title, "My Struggle" is, of course, "Mein Kampf" in German.
Being German, I couldn't understand why anyone would chose to give their book such a name, but reading My Struggle, it becomes clear that he in no way associates his very personal story with Hitler's disgusting book.When you read Knausgaard's story, the title does seem very apt, because he really highlights and dissects all the areas in his life that are rife with struggles.Though I think I'll read something slightly lighter next, I will definitely return for Book Two.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
There is a circular momentum to his narrative (a circling-the-drain quality, all facetiousness aside), for he returns to the death of his father in the second half of Volume One. But first we learn his age (39 years), and learn of his marriage, his children, his attempt to create something important, circling back to begin at the beginning, his birth and childhood.
Love, that’s something else."--Paris Review interviewObserving Knausgaard’s intense reluctance to self-reveal in ordinary day-to-day interactions and conversation, one has to ask why Knausgaard wrote a book like this.
Gathered together in growing number they waited for hours, some arriving the evening before, to watch the writer write, watch him finish with an expected flourish the final line of the next to last edition of his multi-book project about his life.
This ongoing shift leading to the streak of memoirs clogging the book market sending out the message, if you want to be published this is the way to go, and if you want to be somebody this is what to read.
In his vulnerable, doubting, self-deflecting, voice, each daily event we all know so well, he ties to crack a seam and excavate what meaning he can find.
But Knausgaard seemed to approve those years, those experiences, and shows how to go about it as long as -- as in Proust -- teen/childhood talk is filtered through a mature narrator's recollections.
Something else I loved: things are detailed at times to the point of what Frank Conroy called "abject naturalism": comprehensive minute detailing of minor movements, especially washing dishes or setting a table or other rote physical actions.
What the memoirist owes the reader is the ability to persuade him or her that the narrator is trying, as honestly as possible, to get to the bottom of the experience at hand.”This is literature, it’s a story, it has characters, etc but for Knausgård it’s all about form: "For several years I had tried to write about my father, but had gotten nowhere, probably because the subject was too close to my life, and thus not so easy to force into another form, which of course is a prerequisite for literature.
That is also why writers with strong themes so often write bad books.
Μοιάζει με μια γραμμένη ψυχανάλυση του παρελθόντος· αλλά δεν είναι.
Τι είναι λοιπόν; Επίσης είναι δύσκολο να παρακολουθήσεις την αφήγηση, τόσο στην εξωτερικευση των συναισθημάτων όσο και στην περιγραφή της ζωής του, αν δεν είσαι μεταξύ 35-45, δεν έχεις ζήσει μέσα '80 - αρχές' 90 ως έφηβος και έχεις ζήσει μια ζωή χωρίς εκπλήξεις.
Δεν μπορώ να τον κατατάξω κάπου - κι αυτό είναι καλό!Σίγουρα θα διαβάσω την συνέχεια, περισσότερο από απορία για το τρόπο της εσωτερικής του σκέψης πάνω στις καταστάσεις και την προσπάθεια ψυχαναλυτικής προσέγγισης των ανθρωπίνων στιγμών του.
Σαν να κοιτάς από την κλειδαροτρυπα της ζωής του κατόπιν δικής του προ(σ) κλησης...
Karl Ove Knausgård - A Death in the Family (My Struggle #1)The only reason I could actually put it down and didn't finish it earlier was because my free time was limited over the last few days.
A fact which raises a certain little question: who the fuck are you, Karl Ove Knausgård, and how on earth did you make me give a damn about the tiny little details that your past consists of?Knausgård can write.
What does answer it is the fact that A Death in the Family is utterly and painfully real.
however, it seems like pretty much straight autobiography to me.i mean the main character has the author's name, he was born in norway and moved to sweden, as did the author.
fiction or autobiography, the book contains some of the most beautiful writing i have ever read.
i just got book 2 in the mail today, and there are still 4 more volumes to come after that.
i can't wait.if you like excellent writing, you should really read this.
highly recommended.i will be starting book 2 soon!
It is said that this book is a modern rendition of Proust's Remembrances, making me an untrustworthy narrator for this review as I've never read the French giant's magnum opus of life's minutiae.
He's more into "exploding the moment," as they say in writing class, than "shrinking a century." The book shares traits with Petterson's Out Stealing Horses: a strong father-son theme, a strong coming-of-age theme, a distinct 70s flavor, and, what I like, a heavy dose of sensitivity and just noticing things.
I think I take the point of a memoir to be a memoirist's personal story, while the autobiographical novel seems somehow to be more about the novel itself, about a form that happens to be drawing on life events as material to structure itself...
But that's a pretty arbitrary and flimsy and maybe spurious distinction.In any case, I maintain that I don't like memoir, but I really loved this.When we think about our lives as we've lived them so far, there's a necessary compression and flattening of all those years, because we can't possibly keep data on every moment and person and location and event.
Sounds like a truly dreadful memoir, to be sure, but as an autobiographical novel it was great.
Ili sam ja sasvim mimo sveta, ili je po sredi nešto drugo, no, većina od onoga što diljem interneta prikazuje Knausgorovu „Moju borbu“ nema veze sa mojim doživljajem ove knjige.
one baka Palčice što nije Hrebeljanović ko Lazar, nego ono nešto slično, a što joj se knjige zovu „Živela Sveta Petka“ ili nešto slično.Skoro da bih pomislila da su sva ta napisanija plaćeni oglasi, da je plaćanje bilo čega što ima dodirnih tačaka sa kulturom u Srbiji uopšte – dopustivo!
Sve i da je marketiški potez, ne vidim mu smisao, jer Knausgor i Prust imaju veze taman koliko Markiz de Sad i Džejmi Oliver – ta, obojica su posvećena nekakvim telesnim zadovoljstvima, već prema volji.
«Για την καρδιά τα πράγματα είναι απλά: χτυπάει όσο μπορεί. Μετά σταματάει.» Κάπως έτσι ξεκινάει ένα μοναδικό ταξίδι τεσσάρων περίπου χιλιάδων σελίδων. Δύο προτάσεις που εσωκλείουν την αδιαπραγμάτευτη πραγματικότητα της ζωής, το τέλος της. Κι όμως, παρόλο που ο Karl Ove Knausgård στον πρώτο τόμο της εξάτομης αυτοβιογραφίας του αναφέρεται στο θάνατο του πατέρα του, τελικά περιγράφει την ζωή. Ίσως γιατί χωρίς ζωή δεν μπορεί να υπάρξει θάνατος, ίσως γιατί κάθε περασμένη στιγμή της ζωής είναι ένας
Κι όμως, παρόλο που ο Karl Ove Knausgård στον πρώτο τόμο της εξάτομης αυτοβιογραφίας του αναφέρεται στο θάνατο του πατέρα του, τελικά περιγράφει την ζωή.
Όταν πια είδα και τον τέταρτο τόμο μεταφρασμένο στα βιβλιοπωλεία, το πήρα απόφαση και ξεκίνησα δειλά δειλά να διαβάζω την ιστορία ενός ανθρώπου που δεν γνώριζα μέχρι τότε και που μέσα σε μερικές εβδομάδες έμαθα απ’ την καλή και απ’ την ανάποδη.Ένας θάνατος στην οικογένεια (Ο αγώνας μου – βιβλίο πρώτο)Νομίζω δεν έχει νόημα να σας συστήσω τον συγκεκριμένο συγγραφέα.
οκ, δεν έχω ιδέα τι ακριβώς έχω διαβάσει εδώ και γιατί με επηρέασε τόσο πολύ το πρώτο βιβλίο του Αγώνα του Κνάουσγκορντ, μάλλον πρέπει να περάσει λίγο καιρός και να ξαναεπισκεφθώ τις αναμνήσεις μου από τούτο δω αργότερατο μόνο σίγουρο είναι πως αποτελεί ό,τι πιο προσωπικό, πιο δυνατό, πιο μη βαρετό έχω διαβάσει εδώ και πολύ καιρό και πως περιμένω τα επόμενα μέρη με ανυπομονησία και βλέπω πια με άλλο μάτι το αναγνωστικό μου 2015
