https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24784.The_Black_Cauldron
The Black CauldronMuch better than ‘The Book of Three’;Deepening the mysteryWith shades of lore and historyAnd urgent electricity(And sometimes added duplicityWhen characters dabble in trickery),As three Crones with their witcheryComplete the synchronicity.
The Black Cauldron (The Chronicles of Prydain #2), Lloyd Alexander, Maryam Siyādat (Translator)تاریخ نخستین خوانش: شانزدهم ماه آگوست سال 2008 میلادیعنوان اصلی جلد دو «پاتیل سیاه» بوده که بانو سیادت عنوان «تاران و پاتیل جادویی» را برای آن برگزیده استعنوان: افسانه های پریداین - کتاب 2 : تاران و پاتیل جادویی؛ نوشته: لوید الکساندر؛ مترجم: مریم سیادت؛ تهران، تندیس، 1385؛ در 218 ص؛ شابک:9648944156؛ جلد 2؛ قرن 20 مسری پنج جلدی «افسانه های پریداین» در دهه ی 60 سده ی بیستم میلادی برای نخستین بار در ایالا
The Black Cauldron (The Chronicles of Prydain #2), Lloyd Alexander, Maryam Siyādat (Translator)تاریخ نخستین خوانش: شانزدهم ماه آگوست سال 2008 میلادیعنوان اصلی جلد دو «پاتیل سیاه» بوده که بانو سیادت عنوان «تاران و پاتیل جادویی» را برای آن برگزیده استعنوان: افسانه های پریداین - کتاب 2 : تاران و پاتیل جادویی؛ نوشته: لوید الکساندر؛ مترجم: مریم سیادت؛ تهران، تندیس، 1385؛ در 218 ص؛ شابک:9648944156؛ جلد 2؛ قرن 20 مسری پنج جلدی «افسانه‌ های پرید‌این» د‌ر د‌هه‌ ی 60 سده ی بیستم میلاد‌ی برای نخستین بار در ایالات متحده به چاپ رسید‌ه، به نوشته ی مهتاب روشنگران: «لین کارتر»، منتقد‌ مهم اد‌بیات فانتزی، از قول نویسنده ی سری: «ماجراهای پریداین»، نقل می‌کند‌، که: جد‌ا از اثرپذیری ایشان از «تالکین»، کار او ملهم از کتابِ مهم د‌یگری د‌ر اد‌بیات فانتزیِ قرن بیستم میلادی، یعنی «شمشیر د‌ر سنگ» نیز هست (کتابی که به افسانه‌ های «آرتورشاه» می‌پرد‌ازد‌).
It bears almost no resemblance, aside from its characters sharing the same names and a few select characteristics, to the books.As stated in my review for The Book of Three, I was not very impressed with this series to start off with, but about a third of the way in to The Black Cauldron, it became clear that Alexander had turned his storytelling around a little.
Only one problem: when they get to Annuven, the Cauldron has already been stolen, so the companions set off again in search of it, to prevent Arawn from making more Cauldron Born, so that when the final inevitable confrontation that is sure to come does occur, they may at least have a chance in defeating him.
(blah blah blah classic archetypes yada yada yada collective unconscious, what I can I say I calls them like I see them).Once again though the heart of the book comes from Alexander's fertile and surprisingly dark imagination.
Well that all well and good, but Alexander does the same thing here with a several hundred pound cauldron, which believe me can do some damage when it doesn't want to be moved.
(blah blah blah classic archetypes yada yada yada collective unconscious, what I can I say I calls them like I see them).Anyway it was a significant step up from The Book Of Three.
In 4th grade all I wanted to be was Princess Eilonwy from The Black Cauldron.
Odlicna knjiga, jos bolje nego prethodna a to nisam ocekivao. Mracnija, opasnija i na momente brutalnija. iskreno ova knjizica ima puno bolnih momenata i cini se odraslijom nego mnoge grim dark knjige iako su doticne prepune nasilja, smrti i sexa.Veliki plus u ovoj knjizi je tj sto je fokus daleko vise na samim likovima a ne naa putovanju i to se isplatilo.Obavezno stivo a ako imate nekog mladjeg u okolini slobodno mu kupite.Sad odo da odgledam crtani, dugo nisam :)
On of my all time favorites as a kid. Recommended for those who like Diana Wynne Jones and Susan Cooper.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
I was afraid the whole lot of them would be stories where this motley crew of adventurers makes one mistake after another because they're silly and self-righteous but somehow manages to magically win in the end.The Black Cauldron changed my mind.
I finally felt as though these characters deserved to get to the end of their story.But don't worry, Eilonwy is just as snarky, but not quite so obnoxious.Some of Alexander's propensity for coincidences and Deus ex machina remains, but it's not really a fault.
What he's created in The Black Cauldron is an elegant story about trust, honor, and sacrifice.
Still one of the best childhood reads. Damn I liked hardcore books as a kid.Aspiration, pride, loyalty, self-knowledge and sacrifice - this takes on growing pains with a vengeance as Taran continues to try to Do Good in the face of a bewildering line-up of the evil, the self-interested ...and powers he may never understand.
I loved this book as a child, and now that I’ve read it again as an adult, I found a great degree of humor I may not have caught as a child. The storytelling is excellent and has aged well.
This is the second of 5 books & I liked it better than the first. It was more focused in large part because the characters & world needed no introduction. Most were well known from the first. Fun characters, although there's a continuous moral behind each that's obvious. It's great for kids, a little much to take as an adult at times. Still, I enjoyed the simple story immensely & am looking forward to the next. Well narrated, too.
In the second part of this series, the heroes we met in the first are back in action, taking on with the help of a few more warriors a very difficult mission, particularly crucial for the outcome of the fight against evil.
Στο δεύτερο μέρος αυτής της σειράς οι ήρωες που γνωρίσαμε στο πρώτο επιστρέφουν στη δράση αναλαμβάνοντας με τη βοήθεια μερικών ακόμα πολεμιστών μία πολύ δύσκολη αποστολή και ιδιαίτερα κρίσιμη για την έκβαση του αγώνα ενάντια στο κακό.
Στο τέλος, όμως, διαπιστώνουν ότι το κακό μπορεί να έχει πολύ περισσότερες μορφές, όπως αντιστοίχως και το καλό, κάτι που κάνει τα πράγματα πολύ πιο περίπλοκα.
Yet another fast moving, easy reading book. I wish I had read it sooner, as I was confused in the beginning trying to remember who all the characters were. However, after the first chapter or two it was quite good. A few parts were disturbingly LOTR reminiscent, but not enough to make it a cheap rip-off. Most of the characters were good and the mythological influences were nice. I'll think I won't wait so long to read the rest of the series.
Oh yes, after a long time away I am back again reading and listening (Audible) to Black Cauldron.So finished again, must admit that I've forgotten parts of it, but all the better to enjoy again.Just finished The Black Calderon wonderful balance of themes. Faith, friendship, courage, self worth and the balance of good and evil. Above all I think the lessons of discernment are done will.
Re-read as audiobook.
This was an enjoyable read. I love the adventures and the pureness of the characters.
I was also fairly convinced that I wanted to become an animator and had read about Disney's The Black Cauldron (1985) in Bob Thomas's Art of Animation.
That although my career dreams have shifted remarkably I remain as attached to the books as I ever was.In The Black Cauldron, Assistant Pig-Keeper Taran follows his thirst for adventure into a dangerous quest against the evil lord Arawn.
There are other differences between the book and movie, including Fflewddue Flam's age and general competence and, of course, the manner by which the titular cauldron is ultimately destroyed.
Me: Okay boys, today we're starting chapter three of the Black Cauldron and-Student: I FINISHED THE ENTIRE THING AND THE LIBRARY DOESN'T HAVE THE REST SO MY MUM IS GOING TO BUY THEM ALL FOR ME.I love it when I find things that my reluctant readers get hooked on, and this exchange happened during the second class I've ever had with this kid.
When my one kids read it so fast I figured I'd better finish it again quick so I knew what he was talking about when he brought stuff up.So far I love using this book to discuss heroism.
It's a great book, my kids love it, and there's a lot to work with.
While I enjoyed the first book in this series, I think part of my enjoyment was due to finally diving into such a classic series that had eluded me for so many years.
I did enjoy that first book, The Book of Three, but it did seem to meander a little too much for my taste.
He is still an assistant pig-keeper but he really grows into his leadership role this time around as evidenced by the high impact moral decisions he must make.
Not all of the good guys turn out to be so good and the concepts of honor and leadership are paramount.
One of the best books in this series, as our heroes join the mission to steal the magic cauldron the the Dark King uses to create his zombie soldiers. They find the Cauldron, get separated from the main army and have to deal with witches, a treacherous swamp and the forces of evil.Great fantasy adventure novel, full of strong characters and a clever sense of humor.
Heavier than the first novel (The Book of Three) with a lot more on the ball teaching wise and lessin wise. This includes lessons on everything up to self sacrafice.
In order to stop Arawn’s plans, Taran and his companions must find and destroy The Black Cauldron, the means by which his Cauldron Born are created.Like The Book of Three, The Black Cauldron is a relatively short novel, but I was never bored for a moment.
The writing is entertaining throughout, especially in the gripping build up to the finale.Most of the cast introduced to us in book 1 return, with a couple of notable additions including Adaon, Ellidyr, Gwystyl and the kings Smoit and Morgant.
This suffered from many of the same problems that the first volume had but was still enjoyable. The adventure begins even quicker here: Our heroes must destroy the Black Cauldron which makes the zombie warriors...or whatever.I enjoyed this quest a little more than the first books if only because the goal was much more clear and everyone was already together so no one had to be gathered later.The bad guys were bad. The good guys were good. I MAY pick up the next volume if I need some escapist fun.

The announcement of these new yearly 50th Anniversary editions, therefore, are a great excuse not just to revisit the series but to separate them out and consider them somewhat more...individually.The big surprise for me is that in many ways, The Black Cauldron does not feel like its own story.
(Again, it feels like Alexander was writing installments of a series from the outset.) I'm going to be very interested to return next year for The Castle of Llyr; already, we're moving away from simple adventure stories and more into a philosophical examination of Taran's growth.
Your audiobook recordings are so unbelievably good, so lively and full of unique characters, I could listen to you read for days (and I have).
'The Black Cauldron' is the second book in the Prydain chronicles - a classic quest, full of Princes and crones, evil undead and courageous warriors.
These are old friends, familiar from 'The Book of Three', first in the Prydain series, but we get to hear some new voices as well.
There's sacrifice and battle, invisible dwarves and magic cauldrons, and it is a good tale, beautifully told.
“For each of us comes a time when we must be more than what we are.”  Taran’s home of Caer Dallben serves as a venue for a great council - Prince Gwydion intends on invading the evil kingdom of Annuvin to seize and destroy their source of power; the black cauldron which spawns deathly warriors. Taran feels honoured to march alongside Gwydion but soon finds himself separated from the company. Luckily, his former companions, the Princess Eilonwy and Gurgi, have followed him in secrecy and are now
Taran’s home of Caer Dallben serves as a venue for a great council - Prince Gwydion intends on invading the evil kingdom of Annuvin to seize and destroy their source of power; the black cauldron which spawns deathly warriors.
Taran feels honoured to march alongside Gwydion but soon finds himself separated from the company.
Taran is still a very likeable main character who is continuously growing.
I was surprised to see quite a few deaths so early in the series and I was rather sad about them as they counted among my favoured characters.
The self sacrifice and humility he shows makes him a great hero for young people, most of whom struggle with the same youthful foolishness.Adaon: "I have learned that there is greater honor in a field well plowed, than in a field steeped with blood." Great advice to Taran (and his readers).
But, alas, in most of us good and bad are closely woven as the threads on a loom; greater wisdom than mine is needed for the judging." In an ingenius way, the author uses the most revered and heroic figure in the story to enlighten us of this human struggle.Taran: "It is strange.
The Black Cauldron also introduced a number of new characters, as quirky as the last batch.
I particularly liked Orddu, Orwen and Orgoch -- they might be my favorite characters of the series (I'm writing this review after having finished the Chronicles).
They were multi-faceted and nuanced, tricky, dangerous, complex; they were quirky and funny, like all Alexander's characters, but the quirks didn't bowl over their deeper shades.Ellidyr was also an interesting addition, though as soon as we got the story about the Cauldron it seemed obvious how that story was going to play out.
Book 2 of the Chronicles of Prydain series, which I sort of worshipped as a kid.
Also, I will repeat a warning I made in my review of The Book of Three: The Walt Disney Corporation, in a well-intended but disasterous move, decided to make an animated movie called The Black Cauldron several years ago.
She gets called "Eilonwy of the red-gold hair" at least once in every single book, and the fact that Disney decided to ignore this made me furious when I saw the movie.
