https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254024.Panzer_Leader
Methinks he doth protest too much.Guderian's reputation rests on five things: (1) he was the blue-eyed perfect *looking* Nazi: no brown hair or clubbed foot; (2) his writing is lucid (although solipsistic); (3) he was one of the creators of Germany's most successful war weapon--the Blitzkrieg; (4) Hitler fired him often enough to create the scintilla of doubt that this charming man ever could have been a committed National Socialist; and (5) he didn't end his days as a block of ice on the Eastern Front, but in an ex-Berlin Staff position, so lived to tell the tale.
Brilliant memoir of some of World War II's greatest battles written by the one German general who was never intimidated by Adolph Hitler.One of the things that surprised me when I read this book was that General Guderian had a very dry sense of humor.
His son (a combat veteran of World War II) later became the commanding general of the new West German Army.
I would have been fascinated to hear his impressions of the English and American soldiers he met while he was a prisoner, and what kind of advice he might have given his son on basically rebuilding the German army from nothing.
Heinz Guderian's "Panzer Leader" provides an inside story of the development of the German armored forces before World War II and the operation of those forces during that war.
Guderian was one of the major figures helping to develop the Panzer doctrine of quick striking and deep thrusting armored attacks.
This is a book, like Manstein's, that is useful for providing graphic detail of the military struggles of the Second World War. And both reveal little perspective by the two fighting generals of their role in the misery created by the Third Reich.
Charting the developments of Germany's Panzer forces during the 1920s & 1930s, Panzer Leader provides valuable insights into the challenges Guderian faced within his own service branch from vested interests, and the political interference that dogged him at every turn.
In saying that, the above should not detract from what is a valuable piece of both military and political history.
The folly of Hitler's insistence in micro-managing the German army is laid bare, and is in stark contrast to the shrewdness of Stalin, who was more content to detach himself from the military decision making (at least until victory was assured.) All in all, a great book for any student of military history.
What better lessons than from the master himself? A bit on the dry side, but an invaluable perspective. Like all auto-biographies you must compare and contrast with third party points of view. My copy is the Ballanatine Book abridged version measuring in at a mere 400 pages.
What I wrote below remains true; however, I am struck by the relationships among senior military and civilian leadership and insight this provides into the period.
His awareness of other writers contemporary to his subject, and his habit of commentary on their views, provides a great contrast to more familiar narratives from the Allied perspective.I find myself deeply admiring this man and his efforts to advocate for his nation's military betterment.
I am minded of accounts of Dolittle.Perhaps the most entertaining portions of the narrative are his descriptions of his interactions with his superiors and of the politics within a military organization.
I actually bought an atlas of WW2 (not so good, by Collins-Harper I think; I need something more detailed), but that didn't help much.Heck, to go further with that idea, I would willingly pay for an animated representation of the movement as described in the book, particularly those that were under Guderian's direct command (Poland, France and the early parts of the Ostfront).The pace of the writing is much faster than his other work, 'Achtung - Panzer!', which is more about his concept on armoured and future warfare, anyway.
I guess that could have been remedied by better maps...
I was surprised that the author was the architect of Germany's armored warfare capability during WW2 (think 'Blitzkrieg').
As he described his activities (day by day) during the war in France, I found myself wanting to hear more about the battle.
Here was a dedicated General fighting for his country, but being overruled by a tyrant who thought he was a brilliant leader.
Guderian and the other generals were shocked by Hitler's decision to attach Russia.
A sidelight to the story are the snippets here and there where Guderian defends himself from post-war accusations by other German officers.
Well-written memoirs of one of the most famous and talented panzer generals ever existed, Mr Heinz Guderian.
Being active during the Anschluss and the wars in Poland, France and Soviet-Union, he describes in detail the ‘blitz’ progress of the German Army.
But next to that, he also discusses technical features of the tank armies (armour plates, speed, guns,…).
Both Guderian and Manstein (cf ‘Lost Victories) wondered why France did not attack Germany while it got involved in Poland.
The same holds for the panzers and troops halting at Dunkirk letting the British army slip away.
In a later stage, Guderian was promoted Inspector-General of the Armoured Troops.
Heavy duty tactical stuff: Guderian was a military theorist and innovative General of the German Army during the Second World War. Germany's panzer forces were raised and fought according to his works, best-known among them Achtung - Panzer!
As some have already pointed out, this is not a cowboy action book like a "D-Day" or "Bridge too far".
Instead, it is a detailed account covering the formation of german tank forces, key battles and an exhaustive analysis of the russian campaign.
The lack of coherent maps (while describing campaigns, strategies, offense etc) is the only reason why I am giving 3 stars instead of 4.
Well written autobiography of General Heinz Guderian, particularly from the development of the Panzer tank forces prior to WWII, their use in Poland, France and Russia, and the subsequent defeat of those forces at the end of the war. This book traces Guderian's rise from commanding a wireless station at the outbreak of WWI to Chief of the Army General Staff at the conclusion of WWII. A fair and insightful look at the disconnect between the life and actions of one that is entrusted to fight the war, and those that direct how the war will be fought.
Very good autobiography by Heinz Guderian. The character sketches of Hitler and his cabinet were very informative, though it was interesting to see the efforts Guderian makes to distance both the Wehrmacht and the Waffen-SS from the atrocities of the Holocaust, instead laying the blame on Party functionaries and rogue units. Certainly not an impartial observer but he does provide another perspective and does so in a clear, well-written and interesting way.
I enjoyed reading this book ... I had to "keep at it" a bit ... It provided interesting insights into the German advance into Russia ... I personally though the author was trying in many respects to justify himself and his actions during and fate the campaign ... Certainly he seems to distance himself from anything questionable by falling into the old escape of "following orders" ...
a tough read, but very insightful. I enjoyed it, but had to take it in many small sections.
a rather nice book on the military carreer of one of the "inventors" of tank warfare. here again, I think it is still used at some military academies
Guderian recreates several campaigns while apparently studying maps that the reader doesn't have.Still, the recitation of lines taken or defended does reinforce one major point in the section on the invasion of Russia in 1941.
And still there is more space ahead and more Russians, eventually with T34 tanks that outclass anything the Germans have at the time.Others have pointed out a handful of areas in which Guderian was or may have been self-serving in this memoir.
From a military historian’s point of view, such a source is of immense value and interest, and the book provides detailed maps and records of his orders, along with his recollections of his decisions and the reasons for his military actions.
No doubt his battles are still studied in military academies around the word today.However, from almost any other point of view, this book is boring at best, and misleading or problematic at worst.
2 of 3 books this month on 3 most famous Germany's generals in WWII.Without Guderian's Panzer, there is no way Germans can take most of western Europe in months like a storm at the beginning of WWII.
The weapon/tactics were just ahead of its time.
The best part of the book though, IMHO, was when the author (a few years after the war since he was lucky enough to be fired by Hilter for the last time, just shortly before the fall of Berlin) provide his assessment on Hilter himself and the "inner circle".

-Por lo subjetivo, genera más preguntas de las respuestas que ofrece.-Género. Biografía.Lo que nos cuenta. Memorias del Generaloberst Heinz Guderian, centradas en su participación en la Segunda Guerra Mundial e íntimamente relacionadas con el arma blindada y sus desencuentros con los líderes alemanes.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
El coronel general Heinz Wilhelm Guderian (1888-1954) fue una de las figuras más importantes de la Wehrmacht en la Segunda Guerra Mundial, en su rol de Jefe de Estado Mayor del Ejército. Está considerado uno de los mayores genios militares del siglo XX y pasó a la Historia por ser uno de los principales impulsores del concepto de la moderna blitzkrieg. En esta obra relata sus experiencias durante la Operación Barbarroja, la invasión alemana a la Unión Soviética.
Quite possibly the best book on WW2 I have read. From a leadership position in the German Army, instrumental in the development of the Panzer Corps, with frequent interactions with Hitler you get a greater sense of why military actions were taken in WW2. Could not recommend more.
Memoirs on military campaigns extremely dry and boring, without any details nor illustrations on the thought and decision making process. More interesting are interactions between top military and political figures of Nazi Germany, sadly they comprise only a very small part of the book.
Best ww2 book I've read so far. He's explaining things in ways that no other general ever could. I suggest you to read it if you really want to know what situation Hitler was in and how did Germans lose the war.
Great memoirThe parts in the Russia campaign are a little dry. But Guderian's perspective on tank warfare is interesting and his interactions with other party leaders give this book a unique perspective on the third reich.
Makes one want to play Hearts of Iron 4.
Good history of the eastern front in WWII, but somewhat glorified by Guderian
I enjoyed this bookI like it.It was very exciting to read the memories of this great soldier.Doesn't matter which side he fought the war.
Good overview of the early campaigns in Poland, France and Russia. Later on, Guderian gets a bit self-serving, and especially self-righteous.
Great work from a military legendA good read for all history lovers. Great insight into working of German high command during WW 2. Also lot of management lessons imbibed
