https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5984559-king-s-fool
Returning to paperback early 2009!It may be surprising that I only gave 3 stars to one of *Granny's* books, but relative to her other works, this one falls somewhere in the middle.
It has, however, been picked up by Sourcebooks to be re-released in paperback early next year (once again featuring companion materials contributed by me).
The first person narrative from the perspective of a male character makes it a unique work from MCB, and certainly carries the same humanity and insight as her other books.
It was a superb read, and I enjoyed it immensely. I have always loved reading about Henry VIII and this story was a different point of view about court life. Great characters and settings. It was well written and very enjoyable.
But this one was originally published in 1959 and Barnes knew what she was doing here.The tale is told by Will Somers, a man who had a remarkably well-documented career as the King's fool from early in Henry's reign all the way through to his death.
Margaret George used a similar idea for her 1986 novel, Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers.)The result is a compelling, highly readable portrait of a man who, in his early years, was truly and legitimately concerned with the production of a male heir.
I've read a couple of other historical novels by this author, which were quite enjoyable, but not great.
I had to review this after finishing this morning as it was so much better and a really rewarding read.The novel covers the reign of Henry VIII from the point of view of Will Somers, the man who becomes the king's jester or fool.
The history is painted in broad strokes and seen through the sympathetic eyes of Will Somers, King Henry VIII's fool.
I enjoyed Will's first person narrative and the relationship between Henry and his fool.
But my favorite part of the book was reading about Will's life and relationships.
I would have liked more details about all of them and I would have liked it if Barnes had written another fifty or a hundred pages of this story.I thought it was an easy read and a unique perspective showing the human side of Henry Tudor.
Will Somers starts out with a dull life in the country on the family farm.
Even his family admits that he doesn't make a good farmer.
That doesn't leave him with any real options, until an option lands in his lap.Will is one of the few lucky country children that had an education.
He is given to a merchant, Richard Fermer , to work for.
He has a good head for numbers and he must do the books and take inventory.
He is good at what he does, but it bores him.
The one shining light in his new life is Joanna, Master Fermer's daughter.
This is the book that first got me interested in historical fiction and history in general.
She's an outstanding author.
I also really liked how it covered all six of his wives, rather than having to read six books or something, though I do want to point out that this book is about Will mostly, he’s not just a voice the author is using to relay Henry VIII’s love life through.If you know anything about the real historical King Henry and his six wives, then you already, of course, have a good idea of what the story is about.
Though he comes to live at court at the King's side, as his jester, Will loves and misses his first master, merchant Richard Fermor.
He particularly misses Master Fermor's daughter, Joanna, whom he is madly in love with but knows that he is far below in terms of status and wealth.
He despairs of ever winning her love and devotes himself almost monastically to King Henry and his court.Through Will's eyes, we see each of Henry's six queens from an outside, and male, point of view.
I found the male point of view and outlook very refreshing.
Like most historical fiction aficionados, I have read my fair share of Henry the 8th novels and those about his many wives.
The royal jester, William Somers, was there for all of it.
He was privy to all the secrets and ways of King Henry so I expected something different and something interesting.
I did like William Somers.
I wish I would have gotten more of this life and less of the wife lottery of King Henry.
Overall, it was the same story just told slightly different.
While the William Somers story was endearing, the rest of the book was stale in my opinion.
I have always enjoyed historic fiction, particularly historic fiction about the life and times of the Tudors, but lately it has been a bit difficult to find a book about this era in history that both catches my attention and is enjoyable to read.
Will Somers’ unique place in the Tudor court (close enough to see and know Henry VIII and his family intimately but removed enough from the political maneuverings that he remained likeable to reader) makes him the perfect narrator, full insight, compassion and wit and I truly enjoyed hearing his story and seeing history through his eyes.
This is a solid fictional account of the reign of Henry VIII from the perspective of his fool and friend, Will Somers.
Somers was a real historical character, a young man associated with the merchant Richard Fermor until Henry brought him to court as a fool, close enough to Henry's family to be portrayed with them in a couple of pictures.
Other than that, history doesn't say a lot about the real man.Barnes makes an interesting case of what life might have been like as a friend and ally of the difficult Henry.
For all the Tudor historical fiction I have read, I loved this refreshing perspective told from real life court jester Will Sommers.
The book description also alludes to the fact that Will may have worked in the subsequent Tudor monarchs reigns, at least up to the point Elizabeth takes the throne.
I would have liked to stretch to see what Will was up to in those years, especially what he thought of Mary's choices on the throne and what his perspective was of the pendulum swing back with religious regards.Very much enjoyed this novel and will look at more from the author in the future!
If you want a novel about the Tudor court full of all the intrigue an rumors generally associated with the Tudor court, you won't find that here.
If you want a well written story about a man who lived during an interesting time, read this book.There is just something about an older book (this novel was originally published in 1959) that makes me smile.
She manages to bring the past to life without bogging down the reader with much of the trash generally associated with the Tudors.
There is a romantic element to this novel but it's what I like to think of as a simple romance.
A different slant on a well-known historical figure.
Told through the eyes of the very real Will Somers, this book offers a different perspective of Henry VIII and his six wives.
My biggest criticism--and it drives me crazy--is Ms. Barnes lack of dates and ages.
I like to KNOW how old the characters are when things are going on and since this is historic, the years in which significant events occur.
I'd really like to read more of her books as I have enjoyed this one and The Tudor Rose, but that lack of dates thing leaves me feeling adrift.
I’ve wanted to learn more about Will Somers since reading Philippa Gregory’s books about the women in Henry VIII’s life.
How interesting it would have been to be within Henry VIII’s inner circle, but not to be considered a threat by such a powerful man.Will Somers was in just such a position.
On his uncles' farm is where Will Somers meets Richard Fermor, a wool merchant.
Meeting and becoming part of the household of Master Fermor is only the first of some very big events in the life of Will Somers.
I struggled with this book in the beginning due to Barnes' writing style.
After I adjusted to her writing style, I found the book rather enjoyable.
It was different perspective about Henry VIII's life and reign as King of England.
Will Somers, the court jester, has been portrayed in many novels about this time period, but you never truly knew that much about him (at least from some of the novels I have read).
This novel is about his early life before joining court and up until the death of the King.
The book is a good read, but I did find it difficult at times.
As geeky as it sounds, there was too much back story to this book than I cared for.
I was more interested in a first hand account of what went on at court having to do with Henry personally, but this book focused on Will Somers' (fictional) private life.
I appreciate that the author specified that his back story was fictionalized and imagined, but that court events were true.
This book was an easy and quick read, but I wouldnt recommend it for someone looking for some actual historical information and events, but for someone looking for a historical novel.
Being written in first person likely helped, as I really connected with the character of Will Somers and found him genuine and likable.
The love story between him and Joanna was beautifully executed, and although there weren't any new insights into the Tudors as suggested by this subtitle, I wasn't bothered by that.
There are plenty of books about Henry and his wives… far too few about Will Somers.I do feel that quite a few things were glossed over where I would've liked more detail, while others of much less interest received too much attention.
But all in all, this was a lovely book.
This is a lovely book about the life of Will Somers during the Tudor era, whose life ends up intersecting with the royal family themselves when he becomes Henry VIII's court fool.
The author describes Will's early years and family life with the same amount of detail and focus as the Tudors themselves get, and I think that's why I enjoyed this one so much.
There are probably thousands of books directly about Henry VIII et.
but less that show what life was like for his more humble subjects and associates.
I highly recommend this one to anyone interested in the Tudor era.
This is a good book that covers a span of 20 years of King Henry VIII's court jester, Will Somers. It gives Will's point of view of what happens in Henry's life. It also tells Will's own story about love and life. It shows the close personal relationship that King Henry VIII had with his jester, which can be seen in real life, as there were several paintings done during the Tudor reign with Will included in the picture. If you like any stories concering the Tudor dynasty, then this would be a good book to read!
Kong's Fool: A Notorious King, His Six Wives, and the One Man Who Knew All Their SecretsThis story showed a different side of Henry VIII, instead of the gross characterization so many books tend to be.
A story of a frustrated man wanting a son to leave his legacy to.
How ironic that all along it was the daughter who made that dream come true!
This is a easy book to read with touches of history scattered through the story, be sure to take time to look at the portrait of Henry VIII and his jester!
To bad it isn't on the cover!
This is the second of this authors books I have read and I have to say it was a little disappointing. I was really looking forward to reading about the life and wives of Henry VIII through the eyes of his jester, but it turned out being an agonizing love story about himself. Most of Henry's reign was quickly glossed over, the reformation, dissolution and changing times barely mentioned. Although I really enjoy the authors writing style, I felt the story didn't deal enough with the Tudors.
I am a bit overloaded with Henry the 8th era books. This one had a charming twist as it was seen through the eyes of Will Somers, the king's jester. It was a nice story. This one was less on the politics of the era and more about Henry, the man as Will saw him. It included a nice side story of Will's life although I am not sure if any of that was from history or if it was pure fiction.
I have to admit...I was concerned when I hit the 35% mark and Anne Boleyn had just arrived but I guess he did technically serve Henry through all 6 wives and the birth of his children. Nothing really revealed that other books haven't covered but reading about the people who served or stood in the shadow of history was what makes this story worth the read.
The story comes from the point of view of King Henry VIII's jestor. He is a friend and confidant of the king's and is behind the scenes when all the gossip happens. Interesting story. I enjoyed reading this book. It gave Henry VIII a kinder, more human face and came to a happy end for the king's friend and jestor.
Very good version of Henry VIII's life as seen through the eyes of his jester, Will Sommers, who was with Henry from his first wife to the sixth at this death. Personally, I like more depth to the story of each wife, but that would make for a VERY long book so this was a good "review" of the wives and from an interesting perspective.
Gives insight to all the characters involved, and a good amount of sympathy and pov concerning all the characters, while still maintaining a certain objectivity about the characters' choices and priorities. Extremely well done, with no political bias.
What a great way to look at King Henry VIII. Henry was a very difficult King to feel compassion for. Yet, after reading this book, one is reminded that things aren't always as the world views it. This was my first book by Margaret Campbell Barnes. I can't wait to buy her other books!
