https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1803144.A_Hanging
The Hanging is the occupier, the White man, the representative of Empire just doing his job in a cold and dispassionate way.
As soon as he gives the order for the condemned Indian to hang, the deed is done, the Superintendant pokes the newly-dead man with a stick.
The day's routine can proceed with scarcely a delay, almost no disturbance, it will be forgotten shortly, just another day.Rewritten 25 July 2016The observer, Orwell, doesn't feel like this, is horrified, this was a man right to the last second, and his life mattered.
In The Hanging, the Superintendant didn't give a damn for those around him whether beast or man, he had a job to do and didn't question it.
However, let me elucidate that the story takes place in Burma and not in India.In the first para, Orwell lets the readers know what the jail looks like.
These were the condemned men, due to be hanged within the next week or two."With the comparison of the cells to small animal cages you can easily sense what the condemned prisoners must be going through.
Birds either sit tight on branches placed inside the cages or they keep flitting and fluttering within the small confines of their enclosures."Brown silent men" also lets us know that they are depressed and feeling melancholic.
Combine this short story with "Shooting an Elephant" and you might have the two best pieces writ by Orwell. It is clear that the seeds of Animal Farm  and 1984 are contained in these works inspired by his time in Burma and the horrific display of humanity in its guises both corporate and personal. When an animal is anthropomorphasized to offer the only expression of sympathy, you know it is rough.Worth the ten minutes to read. Here is "A Hanging"http://orwell.ru/library/articles/han...And here is "Shooting an Elephant "http://www.online-literature.com/orwe...
Essay written in 1931 describing the hanging of a prisoner in Burma that Orwell must have witnessed when he was in service there. It is very similar to his essay, Shooting an Elephant, also set in Burma. Orwell's vivid descriptions of the setting, the people, and most importantly the mood surrounding the story are stark and memorable. Both these fine essays can be read free on the Literature Network.
This is a perfect essay for the perpetual global issue now : imposing capital punishments on prisoners or captives.
Whatever argumentative reasons these countries have, in my humble opinion, I am absolutely against DEATH PENALTY, not that it is unconstitutional in our country, not that our country is a religious country, not that we are crime-free, in effect, we have floats of crocodiles in kind unless we were still living in a dark era when people were still intellectually and morally immature to kill one another, weren't we?
As I reviewed his essay Shooting an Elephant ( 4 stars ), Orwell’s writing styles are sooo impressive.
Orwell and his fellow officers march him to his place of execution and it is here, just like when he had his elephant rifle and about to meet the animal to kill it, that Orwell has his epiphany: "It was about forty yards to the gallows.
And once, in spite of the men who gripped him by each shoulder, he stepped lightly aside to avoid a puddle on the path.
When I saw the prisoner step aside to avoid the puddle, I saw the mystery, the unspeakable wrongness, of cutting a life short when it is in full tide...."They kill him anyway.
Powerful Orwell short story.
A chilling and atmospheric essay about the execution of a prisoner in Burma and the psychological effects this has on the people that have to do this job, the author included.
A dog that appeared from nowhere was the only one to show sympathy for the prisoner while the men continued with their normal lives immediately after the execution, as nothing happened.
His nails would still be growing when he stood on the drop, when he was falling through the air with a tenth of a second to live.
When I saw that it was Orwell, I just had to read it.I feel off saying that I "enjoyed" reading it as the subject matter is a bit heavy for "enjoy".
I admire Orwell's descriptive writing that gives the reader a feeling of being there as well as a sense of his own discomfort that is quickly hidden behind laughs.There are many topics that could be discussed from this essay, most of which are debate starters.
I just choose to respect Orwell's layman style writing that is easily read and understood by most as well as getting the reader's mind to turn, thinking on things he or she was not thinking about beforehand.
One of Orwell's short essays - set in Burma, where Orwell spent time an an Imperial Policeman, when 
Full Review coming up.
A Hanging explores the psychological effects of captial punishment on those who must carry it out.
Orwell was against capital punishment, but in this story, he never explicitly states his opposition in an idenitfiable thesis.
Instead he allows the events of the narrative and well chosen descriptive details to express his point of view.
In the process, he also presents both a social and a political commentary that reflects his opposition to colonialism, particularly British colonialsm which he witnessed first hand in Burma and India.It was a rather chilling experience, a short statisfying read but was disturbing.
The Story :My thoughts
“in spite of the men who gripped him by each shoulder, the prisoner stepped slightly aside to avoid a puddle on the path. It is curious, but till that moment I had never realized what it means to destroy a healthy, conscious man. When I saw the prisoner step aside to avoid the puddle, I saw the mystery, the unspeakable wrongness, of cutting a life short when it is in full tide. This man was not dying, he was alive just as we were alive.”
I remembered this from somewhere. Possibly philosophy class. Regardless, a great and concise read.
Read for my Creative Non-fiction class
A man headed towards his inevitable death and still avoiding the puddle in his path...
Orwell really makes you think, as he recounts his experience watching a man be hanged, while working as an Imperial Police officer in British ruled Burma.Although he recalls from a memory of his, the parts with the dog seem unlikely and more of an addition to give figure to how he remembers feeling at the time."I found that I was laughing quite loudly.
Everyone was laughing.
Even the superintendent grinned in a tolerant way.
‘You’d better all come out and have a drink,’ he said quite genially.
An essay describing a Hanging in 1920’s Burma. Orwell brief muse of the morality of the death penalty as he describes the journey of the condemned man. The nervousness and black humour of those around as they reminisce about hanging that do not go to plan like this one as they describe people who will not go quietly into the night. Part of my read everything of George project.
[A hanging](http://george-orwell.org/a_hanging/0....) is a very short essay by *George Orwell*, describing in very matter-of-fact detail the morning of a prison hanging. It's as terrible and at the same time as common as it sounds.
Only after reading this I learn that it's non fiction! Quite amazing storytelling.
Very short, but still a powerful piece of writing.
We read this one today in school and what can I say? Orwell is the king basically. I just love his stories, they are so political and full of interesting topics to discuss. Loved this short story. Love short stories in general, I should read them more often.
Powerful, very powerful. Goosebumping spinechilling view of the nasty side of human authoritarianism. The underdogs (India under Britain in this case) are submitted to deplorable circumstances, and Orwell has an incredible way of speaking against it.
Read this short story twice, first as a plot, second as a message.The oppressor mighty and formidable facing the oppressed pathetic and broken as the hierarchy of dominance makes one man's life worthless,
One of the best short stories I've ever read.
Short, well worth the read.
this essay would make you think what "Justice" really means, because what I had thought of it in the past now seems Orwellian.
The most brilliant, beautiful article I ever read so far.George Orwell is a genius.
I thought his description of 'what it means to destroy a healthy, conscious man' went a little far after a bit, but a very good, powerful, and memorable essay nonetheless.
