https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1113161.The_Courilof_Affair
Kurilov avvolge il suo corpo malato e cela il suo male in divise dal taglio impeccabile che lo rendono austero, temibile, irraggiungibile.1903: Bottega della ditta Fabergé a San Pietroburgo.Feste e balli di corte per tessere trame di tradimento, delazione, distruzione dell’amico-nemico.Sempre belle le luci in cui Némirovsky avvolge i suoi personaggi.
The book is narrated by Leon M, a former spy, assassin, revolutionary, and Cheka interrogator looking back on an important episode in his eventful life.
I killed Courilof.
I sent men to their deaths who I realised, in a moment of lucidity, were like my brothers, like my very soul…Actually, in a literal sense Leon did not kill Courilof, although he most definitely assisted in his assassination.
(hide spoiler)]Perhaps the most striking thing about Leon, otherwise something of a cypher, is that he grew up a second generation revolutionary.
La pietà, la compassione continuamente miste al disprezzo per quegli “altri” che dovrebbero essere i nemici, ma che purtroppo sono tanto simili a noi, con le nostre debolezze e meschinità.
Può il terrorista russo Léon M., provare pietà per la vittima assegnatagli, per il “vorace e feroce pescecane”, il ministro della Pubblica Istruzione del regime zarista e massacratore di studenti, Valerian Aleksandrovic Kurilov, che deve uccidere a scopo dimostrativo durante pubblici festeggiamenti, dopo essergli stato accanto per mesi sotto le mentite spoglie di medico, dopo aver scoperto che è malato di cancro, dopo averlo curato e colloquiato con lui?Ambientato nella Nizza di inizio anni Trenta, il cinquantenne Leon M, alias il dottor Marcel Legrand, ex terrorista, stanco, malato di tisi e al termine della sua vita, scrive le sue memorie riguardo il “caso” Kurilov risalente al lontano 1903.
In my view, this novel deals with some of the same material as "The Sympathizer", but so much better!
Léon can't help sympathizing with this man who is both petty and heroic, childishly ambitious yet resolute to be true to his life partner even if it costs him the Tsar's favor.
A much sparer book than "The Sympathizer", this novel shows Némirovsky at her best.
We see exactly why the crafty but principled Courilof is not an easy man to condemn to death out of hand, and the futility of risking his own life to kill a man who is dying anyway gives the story great poignancy.
There is Paris and the woods in Finland in “The Wine of Solitude”, the lives of the poor in a Jewish quarter in a Ukrainian City early in the 20th Century in “The Dogs and the Wolves”, the story of two lovers living in Issy L'Eveque, a Burgundy village in “Fire in the Blood”, and the life of a devoted servant in Moscow and Paris in the small masterpiece “Snow in Autumn”, to name but a few.In “The Courilof Affair” we enter another world again, this time that of a hated Russian Minister of Education the target of revolutionaries in 1903.
I absolutely love Nemirovsky’s work, and will happily read any of her novels or novellas.
Sandra Smith, who was responsible for rendering the novel into English, has done a wonderful job.The premise of The Courilof Affair would have attracted me even if I had not read any of Nemirovsky’s other work.
But over the course of his story he is made privy to the inner world of the man he must kill – his failing health, his troubled domestic situation and, most importantly, the tyrannical grip that the Czar himself holds over all his ministers, forcing them to obey him or suffer the most deadly punishments’.The Courilof Affair is protagonist Leon M’s autobiography of sorts, and it is told in retrospect from his own perspective.
Dicevo, la complessità dei piani dei rivoluzionari - ecco, meglio - ovvero trovare un finto-vero medico di nazionalità straniera, in realtà figlio di genitori russi e rivoluzionari, da affiancare al politico nel mirino, un ministro che, caso vuole, è solito inserire nel necessaire da viaggio proprio un medico straniero.
Il piano prevede anche una lunga permanenza di tale finto-vero medico, e vero-vero esecutore designato, presso detto ministro, giusto il tempo di scoprire l'esistenza delle sfumature di cui sopra, e iniziare a comprendere e in parte compatire il bersaglio.
Tutto sommato un libro molto carino, ma non posso dire che rientri nell'olimpo dei libri bellissimi.Avendo letto la trama su internet, mi aspettavo qualcosa di più movimentato, trattando di una storia di attentati.
La cosa all'inizio mi ha un po' fatto storcere il naso, perché non potevo sopportare che la storia di un assassinio politico fosse così narrata, ma a lungo andare mi ha convinto e sono riuscito ad apprezzare (forse) il perché della scelta dell'autrice.In realtà ho letto questo libro solamente per capire se l'autrice potesse interessarmi e colpirmi, dato che punto a Suite Francese.

3,5La novela tiene mucho de lo que me gusta de la autora en cuanto a descripción de lugares y personajes, pero esta vez no ha logrado engancharme tanto. Pese a que la trama me ha parecido muy interesante, al igual que las intrigas políticas, el modo casi detectivesco de contar lo referente a Kurilov y como se desarrollan los acontecimientos, hay algo que me ha frenado a la hora de meterme en ese mundo. El reflejo de esa época merece mucho la pena. Además que siendo Nemirovsky hay que leerla.
Yo ya comprendo que no todas las obras de Irène Némirovsky pueden ser tan perfectas como 'Suite francesa', pero es que en mi opinión 'El baile', aunque de una forma totalmente distinta, sí que es tan perfecta como 'Suite francesa', y 'David Golder' y 'El ardor de la sangre' son dos novelitas notables e intensísimas, pero es que 'El caso Kurilov' me ha parecido de una sosería insoportable.
El caso es que en la novela de Némirovsky la trama es previsible (a un revolucionario le encargan asesinar a un ministro del zar y por eso se introducirá en su casa como médico) y los personajes son tan arquetípicos y tan planos que es imposible llegarse a interesar lo más mínimo por ellos.
Anatomia di un omicidio.Ho molto amato questa insolita (almeno per quanto letto finora) Irène Némiro
He came to despise Courilof, nicknamed the "Killer Whale," but also got to know him as a human being, seeing, in addition to his viciousness, his devotion to his second wife and other glimpses of decency, so that when the time approached for the assassination, he found himself unable to fulfill his assignment.
The novel shows, surprisingly, the human beings behind the terrorist assassin, on the one hand, and the evil minister of the tzar, on the other.
I'm not sure if it's the writing, or simply the translation that causes this novel to feel lacking. Written as a memoir, the plot unfolds as is expected and dictated at the onset. A short little book with a big theme... what is justice. Set in pre-revolution Russia, it is the memoir of an assassin, sent to kill the Minister of Education. With bloodshed on both sides, it's difficult to see who is right, and who is wrong... just like in real life. It's a sobering story, but not something to relish and reread.
So on one hand this is a delicate and grim character study, not in the least romantic, though if like me you like these things peppered with descriptions of rain on the streets or the first blooms of Spring or something you get plenty of that kind of thing too, but this is also a philosophical treatise on the hypocrisy, morality, and uselessness of terrorism and revolution, which really takes a lot of smarts to do well. Nemirovsky turned out to be a pretty sweet discovery for me this year..
'Wat een slachthuis is zo'n revolutie! Is het dat waard? Eigenlijk is niets wat waard, het leven niet en de rest ook niet.'
very good
Némirovsky does espionage. Conrad's Secret Agent kept coming to mind, even though there aren't so many parallels.
El «asesino» se humaniza y al final la compasión reluce frente a todo sentimiento de odio.
http://speloncalibro.blogspot.it/2013...
Nemirovsky's short novel gives a fascinating look inside the life of a Russian revolutionary assassin and his intended victim. While the assassin works his way into Courilof's inner circle he finds that his target is not that different from the rest of humanity. At times attracted and at times repulsed by Courilof, he makes the error that all enemies want to avoid -- seeing their opposition as human.
The Doubting Terrorist: The Courilof Affair by Irène NémirovskyAbridged version of my review posted on Edith’s Miscellany on 19 September 2013Russia is a huge country with a rich history.
The Courilof Affair by Irène Némirovsky is a fictitious novel based on real events of Russian history.
The atmosphere of tsarist St. Petersburg just after 1900 feels very authentic and the plot which is modelled after history seems very realistic.All things considered, The Courilof Affair by Irène Némirovsky has been an interesting and rewarding read.
Denise Epstein, the eldest daughter of the author Irene Nemirovskydescribed her mother as "having a cruel perspective".This "cruel perspective" did not grow out of personal crueltybut out of facing up to cruel experiences and and accepting harsh realities.She did not shun or pretend about Life but bit the hard bullet of Reality.Her writings reflect this as she probes the complexity of characterand of situation, both often unsavoury.This novel leaves plenty of scope for such a perspective,dealing as it does with Terrorism and Revolution during the last years of Imperialist Russia,the struggle between government and rebels often for the minds and souls of the Young.Here a former terrorist, Leon, reflects on how as a young manhe was selected to assassinate an important and infamous political figure, Courilof.
When the time comes to conceal and throw the hand held bomb, with his Revoltionary colleage Fanny, at the Minister and his entourage he is unable to fulfil his mission and Fanny completes the fatal attack.Nemirovsky is a master at building the story layer upon layer, in an even handed way arguing the individual stances of the characters, and engaging the reader with a broad understanding of the spirit of the turbulent times at the beginning of the 20th century where the origins of modern day terrorism began.
Il breve libro della sfortunata scrittrice russa, figlia di un ricco banchiere ebreo ucraino - per stare in uno dei migliori clichè dell'antisemitismo storico -, sfuggita alle persecuzioni del comunismo stalinista per trovare la morte nel 1942 nel lager nazista di Auschwitz, racconta la storia della relazione che si sviluppa tra un terrorista infiltrato dal Partito Comunista russo e la sua vittima designata, un ministro dello zar.Sotto le mentite vesti di un medico svizzero, Leon M.
Intrigas, historias develadas años después, el frío y oscuro mundo de los inicios de la caida del Zar en Rusia pre-revolucionaria.
Por una parte, Legrand, un infiltrado con la misión de asesinar al ministro de educación de Nicolás II, Vladimir Kurílov (o Kuriloff), un personaje tirano, extrema derecha y principal adorador del Zar. Mientras va conviviendo con Kurilov, más lo va conociendo y descubriendo su parte humana.
Así, puede ver que, aunque muy tirano, también ama a su mujer en una relación censurada por el Zar, y la defiende (a su mujer y su relación) hasta el grado de elegir su matrimonio a su puesto.
In the late 1800s and early 1900s, many Russian revolutionaries resorted to assassinations - and a lot of them - to help kill the old regime.
The Courilof Affair is the story of one fictional revolutionary, the son of revolutionaries who was raised to be a part of the cause.
In 1903 he was sent to infiltrate the home of the Minister of Education in Imperial Russia, Valerian Courilof, and await the order to kill the man.
He begins to feel sympathy for the man, who is near death anyway, but both the members of the Tsarist regime and the revolutionaries are set on their paths....Excellent book!
Irène Némirovsky is a Russian Jew, that grew up in Kiev, spent a year in Finland before making her way to France where she build a family and home.
She is an author that brings the world into your palms and leaves you wrapped in a blanket of words that need a while to settle down; to sink in and truly make sense.
What I mean by that is that she summaries her entire novel in its very first sentence, yet it kept me glued to the pages, leaving me reluctant to put the book down until I have reached the very last page.
Leon M is an old Russian Revolutionary - he was, as he says, born into the Party - both his parents 
I must admit that I am a real fan of Irene Nemirovsky's writing (especially Suite Francaise) and this did not disappoint.
Leon M is the son of exiled Russian terrorists, living in Switzerland.
He is sent back to Russia to assassinate the brutal Minister of Education in as public a fashion as possible.
He is planted into the Minister's house as a personal physician while awaiting instructions.
As he gets to know the Minister, he becomes sympathetic to the man, until a final brutal act changes his mind.
The tale is written as a memoir of an older Leon M.This is beautifully written.
