https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18833.Dead_Babies
(Not that we really give a shit what they think.) Just to spice things up, we'll invite a trio of morally bankrupt and sexually disgusting foreigners, along with this prostitute we all used to bang, to stay a weekend that will quickly descend into violent debauchery and disturbing realizations of self-loathing.We may be grotesquely rendered cartoons and we may find pleasure in cruelty towards others, but that doesn't matter because we are good looking, urbane, we know all the right people, and our parents are wealthy.
Amis at his most cutting and shallow.
he's never been too big a fan of homo sapiens.
this depiction of a weekend house party is populated by less-than sympathetic assholes who never quite reach the status of real people; it also includes a mysterious figure who visits various torments on these ridiculous little twits.
do they deserve it?
well, who really cares - they are basically insects at play, if such a thing could be possible.
overall: pithy commentary, lots of sex & drugs & violence, despicable characters, hilarious & upsetting situations, a very fast pace...a moral vacuum illustrated with broad strokes and slashing wit.
deadpan charred black.
plus slaughter!
A scurrilous, snot-nosed, bile-black, scabrous, swaggering novel showing Amis at the peak of his misanthropic powers, in control of a crazed comic tenor that would resurface in less vicious form in the onanistic opus The Information. This is Amis’s Hex Enduction Hour.
A number of the unimpressed noted recently that 2010's The Pregnant Widow is similar to Marty's earlier novel Dead Babies.
This observation is grounds for drug testing in my book.
Dead Babies is a veering gonzo, assault on the senses.
Screams from the asylum compete with boozy sadism and a taunt of the bedroom farce which Iris Murdoch was accomplishing at the time (1975).
Amis even makes snort in the direction of Iris, for the sake of form, mind you.
Dead Babies is Houellebecq on acid.
It isn't so much a novel as an exercise, a Salo for the budding stylist
A horribly well written book populated by horrible arseholes being unspeakably horrible to each other, in and out of the bedroom and in between times being horrible to neighbours, visitors and local wild life.
Great fun! A wonderful book to read aloud to the children!
After enjoying Dead Babies, I can cheerfully take my chair at the Amis Cultist soiree with no inhibited glances or afterthoughts.
Not to be outdone by his other walkthroughs through depravity, Amis delectably evokes disgust in the genteel reader: one reviewer claims Dead Babies was the first novel to make her "phyiscally sick", which, like I've said elsewhere, proves Amis's effectiveness at engineering the id for comic design.
As a precursor to Success, Dead Babies falls short on vivaciousness, but still sparkles with Amis's usual incendiary baritone and informs the cruelty of spiritual successors a la Will Self; overall, tis a worthy work in the Amis canon.
Martin Amis is kind of a strange case: on the one hand he's incredibly witty, observant and has a style that could cut steel with its keen edge, but on the other reading his books sometimes feels like a guilty pleasure because he just loves to burrow deep into the minds of his characters and bring out the filth and degradation inside.
All these people are absurd to the highest degree and mostly highly unlikeable, although the fat little dwarf Keith, who only wants to be tall and, he thinks, to get laid, inspires a sort of pity, even when Amis is going out of his way to describe his unbelievable gastric problems and other bodily mishaps.
This is the kind of book that later gave birth to more modern dirty, cruel writers like Will Self and Tibor Fischer. Really weird, really disgusting, pure Amis.
Het bibliotheekboek moest opgevraagd worden uit het depot.
De bibliothecaresse belde onmiddellijk naar iemand die daar juist aanwezig was."Ja, ik heb nog een boek dat je zou moeten meenemen.""...""Dead babies, van Martin Amis""...""Dead babies...Ja, dooie baby's."Zowel zij als ik gaven geen krimp.
Want uiteraard is het supernormaal om een boek over dode baby's op te vragen.De titel van het boek spreekt tot de verbeelding, en er bestaat geen twijfel over dat dit een uiterst origineel boek is.
I’m assuming if you’ve read/are thinking about reading a book titled Dead Babies you have that humour.
It rambles a little bit, goes into exposition a little too much (depicting with [by the end of the book, often excruciating] detail exactly how the characters got to the communal house), and doesn’t really have a story, but it’s not bad, not at all.
Far too many times I was pulled out of Dead Babies, quizzical look on my face, wondering what the hell Martin Amis was thinking when he thought these words were okay to use.
Amis’ second novel, Dead Babies, is well-written, dark and hysterical at times.
Dead Babies is no exception.Perhaps Lucy Littlejohn, the “golden-hearted whore” as we are told even before the novel starts, is sympathetic.
The novel is chockfull of drugs, sex and violence.
Whereas Amis’ London Fields was able to find a bit of balance in its 3:1 a- -hole to sympathetic character ratio (thanks, Guy Clinch!).
Four main characters in London Fields was also a lot more palatable than the over-ambitious ten Appleseeders presented in Dead Babies.I would recommend this book, but only for those who have read at least a handful of Amis’ other works and enjoyed them.
I felt like it was a solid text that was a bit between Palahnuik and Agatha Christie.
I also realized about 10 sentences into the book that I had read it years and years ago.So, maybe I can't be quite praised for figuring out on pg 53 that "Johnny" was in fact the "least likely" character: "Watch Quentin closely.
Stunned by his good looks, proportionately taken aback by his friendliness and accessibility, flattered by his interest, struck by the intimacy of his manner and lulled by the hypnotic sonority of his voice--it is impossible to meet Quentin without falling a little bit in love".Ultimately, though this book is fun.
Sex is something your body does, like eating of shitting.
Yeah, like shitting.

Overwhelming, complete, sick, scary, splendid. Everithing is perfect about this book.
This book is so disgusting and unfunny, I could not read it.
All the cynicism and ugliness I expected was delivered in a story too meandering and aimless for it to carry, with characters too hollowly misanthropic to ever truly galvanize interest in whatever broad statement Amis seems to be trying to make.
The action that finally ramps up in the final pages poses as satisfaction, but feels tacked on by how little the first 195 pages earn it.
My only concession is that maybe at the time Dead Babies was written, these characters and this tone felt fresh enough to come across as more than the self-satisfied spouting-off of an angry young writer.
Like children after a long day's journey, their lives arranged themselves in a patchwork of vanished mornings, lost afternoons and probable yesterdays."Amis wisely allows the reader to draw their own conclusions, as with any truly wicked sick joke, it is when the penny drops that the laugh kicks in, and this may come days after reading a particular passage.I know Amis is a very clever writer, but I find that I have to look for the moral high ground in order to excuse the obscene language and scenarios in this book.
I still love the voice of Amis…a chubby dwarf saying something “fatly”; a bench, “patterned with the amorous graffiti of the local young…Billy fks Jane, Susan Fs Emily…”; the “familiar fat-thighed shuffle” of Mrs. Fry; and [on seeing something pleasing] a character flatlines: “I like this planet.” And the definitive excerpt of the novel:“Everyone is always blacking out at Appleseed Rectory, and they can’t remember farther back than a few days.
And so Appleseed Rectory is a place of shifting outlines and imploded vacuums; it is a place of lagging time and false memory, a place of street sadness, night fatigue, and canceled sex.”
la liberazione sessuale non equivale a liberazione psicologica...un fine settimana tra amici, un tri
Pissed myself laughing!!

While Amis is still growing as a writer at this stage, this work comes across as his most free in terms of style and language - something that helps push the sporadic and disorientating story along.Through the druggy fug and sexual haze, the novel's main focus appears to be the decline of 60s culture and the 'dead baby' that decade left as the 70s took control.
Indeed, many of the future works of Amis can be found germinating in the pages of this book; the decadence and consumption of Money, the sexual lust of London Fields...What was also interesting in this book were two central characters: Giles Coldstream (a teeth-obsessed paranoid mess) and Keith Whitehead (short, stumpy virgin).
This story is another sad example of the drug culture, going no where, seventies.
It supposedly is a parody of Agatha Christie novel and there is the England pastoral, large mansion house setting and a crew of characters and a bit of mystery with notes from “Johnny”.
What is so sad is that from the writing, it is obvious that Martin Amis has talent.
So sad to waste talent writing crap.
I've always thought that f****** was a godsend for us oldsters and a bane for you youngsters who came up with the idea in the first place........"well, our sexual natures were formed, so we could never suffer anything worse than ennui.
You thought you'd get free.
The principle embodied by this book seems to be, "if some is good, more is better." It's kind of about a group of friends who are having a debauched weekend of drugs and sex (when the drugs allow them any sort of sexual interest in each other).
They're aimless, bored, willing to try anything but sort of jaded about it all.
Or they're pretending to be jaded about it all because that's what their peer group expects.
And after  Man Bites Dog, the characterisation in this seems especially imaginative: The characters are characters, by which I mean fuck ups, and while in a sense they're all caricatures I found them nevertheless engaging, and all the more impressive because they're unfamiliar and unsympathetic, yet nevertheless believable.This book is very much in that modern grotesque style I usually find quite boring.
But despite having the sense that it was written for middle-class white boys (like, lots of sex, drugs and violence, and vaguely political) I liked it.
Despite the distance at which Amis positions the characters, I actually felt quite sorry for the whole sorry lot of them.
It takes a lot for me not to like a book enough to say it was ok.
This book was not even that.
Amis crafted a purely dysfunctional group that seems to live only for instant gratification.
Individuals from the group seem to get off with each opportunity to shock others.
Keith, the one character not socially accepted because of his appearance, receives the end of all jokes.
In the end things turn quite nasty as the abuse of numerous drugs and overindulgence of alcohol take their toll and one dangerous, actually murderous character makes an appearance.
the epigraph suggests that this is meant to be satire of the present by means of speculation on the future.
But since almost everything that Amis speculates about is now perfectly common - e.g., bestiality porn might have been shocking in the 70s, I don't know, but I knew people in high school who had a folder for it on their hard-drive, and I assume it all came free - well, it reads less like future-oriented satire and more like straight farce.
Pretty awful.
This is the third Amis novel I've read in ten years.
The man clearly hates people.
Remember Keith Talent - a really contemptuous proto-'Chavs' portrait of working class people?
Well, here's Keith Whitehead, a contemptuous portrait of...
short, fat people.
Characters don't have to be nice, I know - but here they're hateful and flat and they just don't exist anywhere.
Reading about them is corrosive.
The only thing I'm grateful for is the one-liner about people, which I've since heard, that goes "It's like [working in a company where] everyone is a character from a Martin Amis novel".
Intense, weird, freakishly good characters and a plot that doesn't stop. Everything I usually love in a book...but this one haunted me in not such a good way. Not sure I could really "recommend" it-unless the possibility of Marquis de Sade on acid at a swingers club is your idea of a good time.
