https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74779.The_Diamond_Hunters
WOW starts off with an asswipe of a guy, Jacobus Van Der Byl setting his two kids and stepkid against each other for control of the family diamond mine in South Africa. And morphs into back-stabbing, treachery with a side of betrayal and unfaithfulness. A rather suspenseful free-for-all ensues that is exciting enough to keep one rapidly turning pages to see who is going to prevail and who is going to go down in flames. Excellent!
A high 3 stars. This is so far from my usual genres and I've never read a Wilbur Smith before but this won't be my last.I learnt loads throughout this book and gained a great appreciation for the Saffa diamond trade. This book definitely ages well and when you pass the halfway mark, all hell breaks loose and the action begins. Storms and bloodshed ensue!
A bit simple and formulaic adventure/thriller with an uncomplicated hero character fighting bad guys with no redeeming character traits. Straightforward story and a quick read.
Very easy Wilbur Smith - I think a one off story. A good blokes book.
This is an intense and gripping read that follows the Van Der Byl children, including the foster child Johnny Lance, as they deal with their father's death and the legacy of the diamond company he has left them.
Unfortunately, the rivalry between Johnny and Benedict that began when they were children has joined them in adulthood and has even been encouraged by their father as he sets all three up with the ultimate temptation, to destroy each other.
The characters aren't the most comlpex and I did find Johnny a little naive at times particularly given that he grew up with Benedict and should know what he is capable of but I suppose he prefered to think the best of people.
Good to the last page
I really enjoyed this one its a fast paced adventure that makes you want to find out what happens next
As good as everI had to go get a drink of water after I finished this. You'll find out why. I'm always sorry to finish his books.
La data di lettura è precedente a quella di acquisto perché ho letto un'altra copia di questo libro
Not one of his best but then it was one of his early offerings.
Enjoyed again after many years. Didn't remember the story until the dredging ship was described. Great read.
Orphan Johnny Lance grows up side-by-side with Benedict and Tracey van der Byl, the two children that he has always loved like brother and sister.
Johnny devotes his life to the family business – Van Der Byl Diamonds – in an unfathomable desire for approval and triumph.The Diamond Hunters is the first book I have read of Wilbur Smith.
Those people that we don’t actually like, but still admire?
I found the ending tragic and slightly bizarre, but deeply touching – I could not hold back the tears.Although the protagonist and his co-stars were not necessarily my favourite characters, I still enjoyed them – they were portrayed with intensity and vividness.
Уилбър Смит е написал един доста интересен морски роман в който се изгубвах от време на време, но въпреки това ме очарова.
И още от това време се вижда тази надпревара между главният ни герой и синчето на Стареца.
Години след това Джони и копелето Бенедикт работят за Стареца, но надпреварата им още не е свършила.
Също ще вметна, че този роман си заслужава четенето понеже е една много интересна и интригуваща история и въпреки, че специфичният език с който борави Уилбър Смит в тази книга понякога ме затрудняваше, по никакъв начин не уби интересът ми.
However, Smith holds the readers attention by moving swiftly to develop the characters and plot.
Despite the brevity of this book, Smith still is able to intersperse some small bits of African history and a basic educational primer about the diamond business into this book.
For someone who knows nothing about diamonds other than having bought them in the past for my wife, it was a plesant added benefit for me.No spoilers is my philosophy, so I cannot really share much more without giving away parts of the story.
The same interaction eventually leads to an admission of a somewhat unconventional love that has also endured since childhood.An adopted son was pushed to excell as part of what he had to do to be accepted into the family, especially after the father announces that he is not actually part of the family, biologically.
A third character, a biological daughter, is "merely" a female, a pawn to be used (or abused, or ignored) by her father and brother.Throughout the book, the almost legendary affinity the father and the non-son have for diamonds creates an exciting treasure-hunt story that eventually merges with the love story, and with a third story - a mystery, of who is stealing and smuggling diamonds.
This one's a then-modern day thriller about the heirs of a diamond company battling over finances, but of course it's far more exciting than it sounds from that premise.
Smuggling, murder, love, hate, jealousy and misunderstanding are all involved in a fine exploration of the human condition.After the initial set up, things play out pretty quickly as Smith distils the situation into a 'protagonist vs.
There's plenty of background research about the diamond extraction business which is dry, although as usual Smith makes it somehow compelling.Expect a square-jawed hero fighting against the odds, some breakneck disaster sequences and some utterly loathsome villains.
Not Smith's best book, but still a cut above the competition.
Yet, I did enjoy it while it lasted, though for reasons other than the action-packed adventure, or the characters (whom I found to be unfortunately one-dimensional, to be frank).The story revolves around the diamond mining business, which was very intriguing, as Smith has clearly researched the subject.
I had never indulged in the matter myself, having zero previous interest in that boggling monopoly world, but learning about the methods of mining, how the diamonds are categorized and by which criteria, was enjoyable.
I also greatly enjoyed the vivid descriptions of the landscapes of Africa.One star for the great depictions of the diamond industry and the surrounding setting, one star for the actual story.
Summary: Silly man spends a life time desperately seeking the approval of his wicked foster father, competing against his wicked foster brother and saving the beautiful, but equally silly, princess.//My first ever Wilbur Smith -- he's quite a popular writer, I'm told. This is one of the books read by R this year. He mostly liked it and was particularly pleased with the twist at the end. I, huh, thought it was dull. Tedious and dull. Oh, and predictable and not at all redeemed by the twist at the end.
Not read anything by this author before, picked the book when i was shopping as it was cheap and blurb sounded interesting. Well, I'm so pleased i did, it was very quick to get into story, fabulous characters, you will soon have a favourite, very fast paced, no matter what you think will happen you can guarantee it will be even more unexpected than you thought possible, but remaining so true to life. Cant say much more without spoilers, but i will certainly be looking for other books by him.
The entire story is written with the background of Diamond prospecting and recovery in South Africa. The story ends with a minor diamond company purchasing a special ship that can recover diamonds from under sea beds. The narrative is gripping and it is the insights into the diamond industry that gives the story its charm. Plenty of intrigues, deceits and other aberrations of human behavior. I managed to read the book in just one one day! A real adventure story, I would say.
Think I have read every Smith novel before Sun King. A really different kind of treat are Smith's books. You get high adventure and beautiful descriptions of wild Africa. Makes you want to go there. Highly recommend Wilbur Smith works. The Burning Shore, A Sparrow Falls, The Sound of Thunder,Eagle in the Sky,Hungry as the Sea,Sunbird, Eye of the Tiger,Shout at the Devil. You cannot go wrong with any of these.
Drama involving a diamond-mining family. One of the 2 sons is told he is adopted but his "father" is very cold and mean. Adopted son is attracted to his "sister." Brother is awful person. A lot of spelling and grammatical errors. This is just not the kind of book I like. Almost all soap-opera and not much action. Familiar tale with man spending whole life trying to earn the love and respect of father figure. I only skimmed through this in one day. Copyright 1971 and 2005
1. HEINEMANN ELT& INTERMEDIATE Level2. 80min.3. Jacobus, rich, plentiful, diamonds, ship, explode,Johnny4. a) Johnny...I love you.b) I can understand Tracey's feeling. She couldn't help Johnny. She could just stare him from the helicopter. It is a lonely thing.5. It was difficult for me to understand situation especially last part. I think people want to be rich. But there is a problem. If they take an action, the bad things happen not only story but also around us.
This was such a daft premise for a book - Wilbur Smith often uses the themes of sibling rivalry, but usually to much better effect. However, it is fast-paced, full of action - and if you like his style of writing, he tends to be pretty consistent. As always, the muscle-bound hero wins and gets the girl. Oh, and the diamonds too. Hope I didn't give anything away there.
Not bad for light reading, don't expect much out of it. Was a story about hate, love and sex in the diamond mines of Africa. Had a few nuggets of information about diamond classifications that were interesting. Was a first book for me of this author, am going to try one of his series to see if I like any better.
RecensioneInizio col dire che già conosco Wilbur Smith perché ho letto la saga degli Egizi e mi ha molto appassionata, sia nel modo scorrevole in cui è scritta, sia nelle informazioni contenute persino nei più piccoli dettagli di quell’epoca.http://sognidimarzapane.blogspot.it/2...
I only read this to see if my son could read it, as he picked it off the shelf. Verdict- not right for a young child even if he is an advanced reader, and not my kind of book either. Too flashy, dramatic, and some creepy fighting off animals in the desert. But hey, maybe the diamond business is really like that.
I didn't think that I would like this book but I was wrong. The book kept me on the edge of my seat until the last page. I really enjoyed the authors style and the way he set up the book. If you are looking for a good read then this is the author for you.
A story of greed, power and of the good guy, Johnny.A man looking for love and acceptance from his "father",Which will he ever receive?Also the tortured young love, will it happen?What good are the diamonds?6
Fairly interesting about other ways of diamond mining (such as dredging the ocean floor)in South Africa. This book was written in the 70's and seems to reflect those times. The characters are a bit obnoxious for me although this may be how those diamond tycoons behave.
