https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8147.The_Gift
Like something only partially formed, something that has not yet emerged from a chrysalis state?Or like a text read in a dream..The Gift, the last novel Nabokov wrote in Russian, and the most exciting of his I’ve read, offers all those variations and much, much more.Fyodor Godunov, poet and writer, is the first-person narrator of the book.
Through a circuitous set of circumstances involving various interesting coincidences, Fyodor finds himself researching and writing a memoir of the Russian revolutionary writer-poet, Nicolay Chernyshevski (1828-1889) whose novels influenced many political activists including Lenin.
The Gift is Vladimir Nabokov’s best novel written in Russian – voluminous, multifaceted, multilayere
One in particular that I'm often reminded of whenever people on either side of the religion/skepticism debate start saying that things are "obvious".
"There's no God!" he exclaims.
"It's as obvious as the fact that it's raining right now!" Then Nabokov's camera moves back, and you see that the person upstairs has in fact been watering the flowers on his balcony.
I loved this scene, but I'd be very wary about interpreting it to mean that Nabokov was religious.
Just like the non-existence of God: it may be true, but it's not obvious.
It is an examination of and tribute to the design of fate, an embrace of the idea that the chaos of our lives is simply "the reverse side of a magnificent fabric", and if we strain our eyes out of time and look across the breadth of our memory, we will see the precise workings of a hidden design, even in the obstructions that have checked us along the way.
The Life of Chernyshevski (given as a whole text within the novel), Godunov-Cherdyntsev's skewering of Russia's "men of the sixties", the materialists whose ideas led to the banal artistic credo of Social Realism and in many ways directly to the Bolsheviks, is, to me, some of Nabokov's most interesting and strong writing.
“Have you ever happened, reader, to feel that subtle sorrow of parting with an unloved abode?
The last of his Russian novels, 'the Gift' is a complex and rich Künstlerroman and is one of those novels that makes me wish I spent more time in college studying Russian simply so I could catch the nuanced differences between the Chapters where Nabokov is mimicking Pushkin, Gogol, and other Russian novelists.
Nabokov always amazes me with his ability to provoke, entertain and awe his readers.
There are some novelists where it is clear they are writing for a certain audience.
Nabokov seems content just to write novels that entertain an audience of one (VN).
Deste modo, para se poder iniciar algum envolvimento com a leitura desta obra convém conhecer algo destes autores, assim como deter algum conhecimento sobre o antes e o depois da Revolução Russa de 1917.[Imagem][Publicado no VI, com imagens e links, em https://virtual-illusion.blogspot.lu/...]Não conhecia todos os enunciados, faltava-me Puchkin e Tchernichevski, e por isso são os livros que se seguem, embora sejam dois autores em pólos opostos, ou seja, se Puchkin é o grande pai das letras russas, Tchernichevski é não só desconhecido fora da Rússia, como é aqui totalmente ridicularizado.
Secondo me quindi esplode in altre pagine tutta la bellezza di questo romanzo con una struttura circolare, incentrato sull’assenza del padre e sulla nostalgia della patria, sull’aspirazione a colmare questi vuoti e su un destino che, benevolo per una volta tanto, decide giocosamente di dare a due giovani più di una possibilità di incontrarsi nella Berlino degli anni Venti.Ho trovato la bellezza nelle parole con cui viene descritta la storia tra Fedor e Zina e nel modo con cui Nabokov ci rivela – per gradi, dopo una serie di allusioni - qual è la ragazza di Fedor, tra i personaggi che di sfuggita abbiamo precedentemente già conosciuto.Agli appuntamenti segreti, di sera, lei avanzava a piccoli passi, la punta di un piede contro il tallone dell’altro, come se camminasse su una fune.Poiché gli sembrava assolutamente impossibile avere una parte qualsiasi nella sua anima e nella sua vita, soffriva quando scopriva in lei qualcosa di particolarmente incantevole, e provava un gioioso sollievo quando invece trovava qualche imperfezione nella sua bellezza.La bellezza sta nelle cose.
daha net ifade etmek gerekirse: içinde bir şiir kitabı/şiir-edebiyat eleştirisi, bir gelişim ve aşk hikayesi, bir çernişevski biyografisi ve ayrıca bir tür roman içinde roman barındırıyor yetenek ve tüm bunlarla birlikte otobiyografik bir temele dayanıyor.
nabokov’un romancılıkta neden ve nasıl ayrı bir yerde durduğunu, daha doğrusu duracağını, edebiyat tarihinde kendine neden eşsiz bir yer edineceğini gösteriyor.
nabokov’un yazarlık hikayesi sanki yetenek romanının devamı gibi ilerleyecek, yazar-kahramanımız gelişimini anadilini terk edip bir başka dilde yeniden var olarak tamamlayacak.
belki yetenek de o zaman, lolita’dan, solgun ateş’ten, ada ya da arzu’dan sonra bakıldığında yerini, anlamını, değerini bulacak.
"Dar" recenzija prezentuje kao svojevrsni Bildungsroman i fiktivnu autobiografiju mladoga ruskog pesnika koji živi u Berlinu 1920-ih godina i kreće se u krugu ruskih emigranata koji su napustili Rusiju nakon revolucije i građanskog rata.
Zapravo, reč je o demonstraciji književne sile ovog pisca.
Čas prvo, čas treće lice, čas poezija, čas proza, gomila istorije ruske književnosti, kritike i aluzija.
I Leptiri, leptiri, leptiri.
Kad bolje razmislim, nema bitnijeg dela koje sam pročitala, a da ga on ovde nije pomenuo, direktno ili indirektno (a mogu da pretpostavim koliko je onoga što ne vidim).Što bi mladi rekli - rokanje!Upozorenje za one koji traže akciju i fascinaciju: ni u tragovima.

The last, longest, and greatest of Nabokov's Russian novels, a project that in some form occupied him for much of the 1930s, is frequently compared to Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man but I think it's better, and more ambitious (a rival for Ulysses actually).
Nabokov focuses not so much on Fyodor's childhood and youth (although they are powerfully present in the first chapter) as much as on his growth and expansion as a quickly maturing writer, and on his impassioned relation to Russian literary tradition--more interesting processes, and much harder to render dramatically.
It communicates the essence of Nabokov's art, and displays his total mastery.
Includes: Hunting expeditions in Tibet; fake executions; nude sunbathing; mysterious disappearances; Siberian exiles; three-way suicide pacts; left-wing censorship; recurring ghosts; Russian emigre life in Berlin; an affecting love story; the secrets of fictional composition; and much, much more. One of Nabokov's greatest masterpieces.
La personificazione degli oggetti, la ricerca spasmodica del termine più rappresentativo, l'uso della lingua in maniera maniacale, fanno di Nabokov uno scrittore che con la singola frase è capace di lasciare il segno nel lettore."Il dono" ha però anche un difetto, ed è una pesantezza eccessiva, soprattutto lì dove i riferimenti alla letteratura russa iniziano a diventare fondamentali.
Leggere questo libro, che nel primo centinaio di pagine sembra essere decisamente scorrevole, si rivela pagina dopo pagina sempre più pesante, tanto che arrivati ai due terzi del libro vi sembrerà di aver scalato una montagna a mani nude.Detto questo, sicuramente non è il libro giusto per chi Nabokov non l'ha mai letto né per chi non ha una minima conoscenza della letteratura russa.
Questa edizione Adelphi è condotta sul testo originale russo.Le peripezie editoriali del libro ben si adattano alla complessità del testo: Il dono è infatti una sorta di autobiografia romanzata dei primi anni berlinesi dell'autore, nella quale sono comprese altre due storie, quella del padre del protagonista e un “libro” su Nikolaj Černyševskij, lo scrittore e pensatore rivoluzionario dell'ottocento russo autore di Che fare?, scritto dal protagonista de Il dono.Queste due storie, che occupano rispettivamente quasi tutto il secondo e l'intero quarto capitolo dei cinque in cui è suddiviso Il dono sono le colonne su cui si fondano due delle tematiche fondamentali sviluppate nel libro (tematiche peraltro sempre presenti nell'opera di Nabokov, almeno del Nabokov russo: la nostalgia per la Russia prerivoluzionaria – associata ad un profondo disprezzo per la Russia sovietica – e la polemica (che anche in questo caso sfocia nel disprezzo) nei confronti dell'arte utilitaristica, realista, volta all'impegno civile, rappresentata in sommo grado – nell'immaginario dell'intelligentsia russa di inizio '900, proprio dall'opera di Černyševskij.
"......but suddenly the unpleasant feeling of lateness was replaced in Fydor's soul by a distinct and somehow outrageously joyful decision not to appear at all for the lesson - to get off at the next stop and return home to his half-read book, to his unworldly cares, to the blissful mist in which his real life floated, to the complex, happy, devout work which had occupied him for about a year already.
Nabokov looms as one of the navigational stars, glimmering against a novelist's horizon just when things seem darkest.
THE GIFT makes my Goodreads list because it's the book I came to most recently, maybe 30 years after PALE FIRE & his other American novels rewired my makeup for good.
On top of that, the book has an astounding publication history.
Anyone who cares about story in its highest forms can afford to overlook this one, glimmering on the horizon.

Tuttavia intessuto dai preziosi arabeschi linguistici per i quali Nabokov è noto e amato, che ne fanno una lettura impegnativa ma sempre bellissima, ho riletto più volte incantata interi brani e credo che questo sia uno dei più bei libri di Vladimir Vladimirovich.
Не мога да преценя какво пропуснах от съдържанието, но не улових всички нюанси, не разгадах пластовете докрай, не успях да последвам полета на авторовото въображение и не се оказах готова за пълнотата и пълнокръвието на тази книга.
Герои, съдби, биографични факти, исторически събития, места и усещания - всички те се докосват, пресичат, разминават.
Но това едва ли изненадва някого, Набоков владее някакво рядко заклинание, което му позволява да си играе с думите и значенията им и да ги подрежда по необясним, неповторим начин."Дар" има специфичен послевкус - стигайки до финала, се чувствах така, все едно тепърва ми предстои среща, която всъщност вече се е състояла.
‘Give me your hand, dear reader, and let’s go into the forest together.’This is the last book Vladimir Nabokov wrote in what he called his ‘untrammelled, rich, and infinitely docile Russian tongue’.
The story of Fyodor Konstantinovich Godunov-Cherdyntsev, a young Russian émigré aristocrat in Berlin, told in this novel is both a personal journey and a reflection of Russia’s past.
Nabokov provides a brief synopsis in his foreword:‘The plot of Chapter One centers in Fyodor’s poems.
Fyodor’s book on Chernyshevsky, a spiral within a sonnet, takes care of Chapter Four.
"Portrait of the Artist Remembering Things Past." Nabokov exploits the workings of memory to describe his childhood and the birth and development of the the protag's "gift." This gift is the mysterious element that drives one to become a writer, and very few to become writers of the highest caliber.
He draws on Proust heavily, especially in the treatment of the protag's memories of childhood.
[So kind of me to condescend, I know.] This being only the second of his works I've read, I think I wasn't ready for it.I've actually begun rereading it immediately.
It requires attention and it lost me at times, as I was dodging puddles on the back streets, and Künstlerroman is not really my genre and I don't know nearly enough about Russian literature to fully appreciate what Nabokov is up to (and the best thing about that is that he clearly just doesn't care whether I get it or not) but wandering along and getting a bit lost in, especially, Chernyshevky's life and thinking about other things, I was more than once hauled up and made to pay attention by the clarity, compassion and beauty of some long passage.
There's a long list of great writers who produced very little great material, either due to early death, late start, slow output, quitting, or continuing to write but falling off (or in some cases suddenly jumping from mediocrity to greatness).
Being a Nabokov fan is like being treated to a seemingly never-ending treasure trove, and there are not many writers you can say that about.The other wonderful thing about dear old N is that reading his work isn't the only joy he provides.
The most consistent theme in his work is the observation of the little details in all aspects of life, and that those details are what bring true joy.
I liked the first 100 pages or so, but then began to lose interest.
It is about a writer who has left Russia following the revolution and who settles in Berlin.
He is involved in the ex-pat community, some of whom are also writers.
I liked the main character, but Nabokov's prose is beyond annoying, which it is said to have been influenced by Proust.
I loved the way Proust wrote, but didn't like what he had to say and set him aside.
I loved what Nabokov had to say, but hated the way he said it.
I hesitate to give anything by Nabokov such a low rating, but I found the Gift to be stuffy, pretentious, tedious, and at times downright dull.
Admittedly, I am not well acquainted with 19th century Russian literature.
Having an in depth knowledge and appreciation of the likes of Pushkin, Gogol, and Chernyshevsky is a prerequisite for enjoyment of the Gift.
You will otherwise be lost with all the namedropping and style referencing.
There are, of course, bits of Nabokov brilliance that shine through for the average reader.
A passage here and there that makes the heart soar or elicits spontaneous laughter.
It's a melancholy story about exiled Russian nobles living in Berlin after the Revolution.
The narrator is an exile who is also a novelist.
Most of the book slips effortlessly between his childhood memories in Russia, his creative reveries, and his life in dreary Berlin.
His thoghts eventually become so jumbles that it becomes impossible to tell what is real and what is memory.
The Gift is full of such moments, and Nabokov's skill is such that you can never tell what is real and what is fantasy.
Probably Nabakov's best, which is saying one heckuva lot, the sequence with the steppes revealing themselves from the bedroom wallpaper is breathtaking and every page contains a gem of vivid description.
Non sorprende, dunque, che l’avvento di Hitler sia evocato e liquidato per sempre in poche parole, “l’ascesa di una nauseante dittatura”; nauseante e ridicola più che per la natura totalitaria (o, come dicono alcuni, antiumanistica o antiumanitaria) della sua ideologia, piuttosto per la pretesa rozza e isterica di farsi l’incarnazione di spiriti storici e destini collettivi irrevocabili.D’altra parte anche Il dono è una concretizzazione di quell’idea di letteratura che Nabokov dichiara, senza mezzi termini, nella postfazione di Lolita: “Per me un’opera di narrativa esiste solo se mi procura quella che chiamerò voluttà estetica, cioè il senso di essere in contatto, in qualche modo, in qualche luogo, con altri stati dell’essere dove l’arte (curiosità, tenerezza, bontà, estasi) è la norma” (pagina 392 dell’edizione italiana).
Вместо тысячи книг по стилю. Чтоб не быть глупым как бетон, блондином во всем и требовать от стихов больше, чем ямщикнегонилашадейности. ❤❤❤
Вместо тысячи книг по стилю. Чтоб не быть глупым как бетон, блондином во всем и требовать от стихов больше, чем ямщикнегонилашадейности. ❤️❤️❤️
None of it equals this book - not even Despair, which comes close, or Invitation to a Beheading, which I've liked since I read it as a teenager.My enjoyment surprised me.
You come to understand that Fyodor, the main character, is imagining himself in the place of his acquaintances, but the manner starts at the very first sentence.
He thinks about the poems in the book.
In part two, he tries to write a book about his father, a naturalist.
Plus, Nabokov's talent for insult shines: One character is "as blind as Milton, as deaf as Beethoven, and a blockhead to boot."This book is at least worth a try.
