https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1634493.20_000_Years_in_Sing_Sing
This was a fantastic reminder that we need to look deeper than the surface. That sometimes, what society teaches us is so is only part of the story. That it's possible to work in the bowels of one of the most "despotic" places on earth and still retain faith in human nature. I can't wait to read more of his work!
I think this is the best book out there that discusses US governement penal policies. It's amazing to see how our prison system has developed and deteriorated in the years before and since this book was written. Lawes brought about so many incredible reforms in his time, it is a shame that this book is not more widely read by officials today.
I liked having the perspective that one can never measure or guess which humans are beyond redemption. In order to preserves one's own humanity, you must seek to acknowledge the humanity in others. ...without ever throwing out your brain in the process!
Eye opening book for one so dated!While reading it…I remembered I have 3 distant relatives who are prison guards.
He says two inmates shaped his thoughts and polices on penal administration.Prior to being appointed to Sing Sing, he was head of a prison without walls.
He did accept as long with the agreement he could run the prison without interference.
Invisible Stripes in 1939, with George Raft, was based on his novel of the same name, while Humphrey Bogart starred in You Can't Get Away with Murder in 1939, an adaptation of Chalked Out, a play Lawes co-wrote.
Very popular in the 1930s, and made into a pre-code film, it's hard to come by in 2017, but fully worth the effort.
Many of the views of the author - the warden of Sing Sing - are very relevant today, including the dehumanizing of inmates ("it is only when circumstances strike home that we become keenly aware of the necessity of invoking the rule of individuality in dealing with offenders), and the radical expansion of the numbers of prisons and prisoners.
He speaks compellingly of the failure of prison culture to rehabilitate, of how the wealthy generally avoid prison terms (like Wall Street Bankers - sound familiar?), and how to fix the US prison system.
Unfortunately his recommendations were largely ignored, and the tome is now forgotten.
