https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95621.As_Sure_as_the_Dawn
It was a great book and a wonderful ending to an amazing series. It was sad to know that I wouldn't be able to follow the lives of Rizpah and Arteres anymore. As well as Haddassa and Marcus. :)I suggest this series to everyone. Now I am a Francine River's reader. I am off to my next book of hers. :)
While I adore the 2nd book of the series, I think this was my favorite.
Atretes is frustrating and intense, and while I wanted very much to come through the pages of the book and strangle him, I loved reading his journey.
Her journey with Atretes, Theophilus (I love that Rivers pulls a real life person into the story) and her baby Caleb is beautiful (reading about her son growing up through all of this was very gut-wrenching at times and at others brought a smile to my face).
I would have loved to continue reading about Haddassah and Marcus and Rizpah and Atretes.
There are books that are good, even great, books that you will remember and offer glowing recommendations to all you meet.
There’s power behind this story, that transformative, tremor-inducing power that makes you forget this is a work of fiction and not something that raised itself out of the ground.
This is considered Christian fiction, which by definition already holes itself to certain prejudices.
Francine Rivers, however, is a tremendous story-teller who appeals to Christians and non-Christians without compromising the crux of her message.
Needless to say, I loved everything about this final installment in this trilogy and would highly recommend.
Izvrsno zaokružena trilogija, svaka čast!
I adored Hadassah and Marcus and despite knowing that their story ended with Book II I sill wanted to read Book III and discover what happened to Atretes.
On a positive note let me say that I do not regret reading this, by all means, Francine Rivers is a great writer, her books are still among my all time favorites, I just felt this book to be very different from the other two, it should have been a separate book and not the ending of the trilogy or at least some loose pieces should have been addressed here, for instance, Atretes knowing that Hadassah survived the arena, Hadassah knowing that Atretes found his son and ultimately discovered the lord among others.
It was awful--a 300-page, pressure-cookery romance novel.
It's about a Christian woman falling in love with a very unsaved man (as are the previous two books in the series).
Apart from anything else, how can a woman respect a man who she's leading spiritually?I mean no disrespect to Mrs Rivers as I know some of her books have been useful to some of my friends.
I hear good things about "Redeeming Love", for instance.
But this one was a bit of a dud and I will not be reading any more of her books while I'm a spinster.
This book really spoke to me until they reached the Chatti. Then it became sort of weird. I definitely found the power of Satan stronger in this book. I've got some great lessons from it, almost more so than the first two. I could identify with Rizpah and her struggles as a born again Christian. I was hesitant to read it in the beginning but I am so glad I did.
This book started out strong and with great potential to be a blessing like the first two...
I know that God can do anything so the events in the book are possible- it was just a little ridiculous.
Satan is a powerful adversary who know you almost as intimately as the Lord does.
You only have to stand firm in your faith."I felt like this was sooo packed full of good stuff- first the part with her questioning her ability to be used by God, I worry about that sometimes, what if they ask a question I don't have an answer to?
I admit it is easy to fall into this trap, I mean so many of real-life relationship abuse stories start off on rocky ground, so I appreciate Mrs. Rivers bringing this to light, however, the abuse Rizpah endured from Atretes seemed to be glazed over and unconfronted as if it's something to be expected from such a "manly man".
And please don't marry them thinking it will make things better!I appreciate books that bring the trauma of relationship abuse to the forefront but to make it okay or to dance it over it?
I found it hard to forgive Atretes so quickly...would have liked to see him make things 'right' with Rizpah before the book ended.
Wished Rivers didn't keep writing 'things like this' in this trilogy.
The only book, of the three, that didn't frustrate me was book 2.
It's frustrating enough to make me hesitant to recommend series even though I couldn't put these books down.
I had hoped this book would have weaved in tidbits of Hadassah and Marcus' story.
On a side note, this book gives a nice synopsis of the Old Testament.
I also like that these books made me think...'Am I forgiving?
As Sure as the Dawn told another powerful story; another tale of a life completely turned around.
This time, we focus on Atretes, the fierce and feared gladiator.
Atretes had a fierce and vile anger and bitterness.
This book was a little different from the first two, Hadassah’s story (A Voice in the Wind) and Marcus’s story (An Echo in the Darkness).
Atretes was really the only character from the first books that was in As Sure as the Dawn.
Yet it still carried the same awesome message.As Sure as the Dawn, another poignant story… I only wish it wasn’t the last of the Mark of the Lion!
And as if anybody who appreciates good writing wants to see pages of info-dump via dialogue.Second half of book = I don't even know.
But, the actual ire I experienced was directed at the characters and managed to, at times, distract me from the frustration I had with the writer behind it all, that I bumped this up from 1.5 to 2.0 stars.
Good thing, too, since we don't have half-stars around here.Immediate reaction upon finishing = I tossed it onto the table and blew a raspberry at it.
This book captured my attention much more than what I had expected.
As always, you feel like you're in the shoes of the main characters drawing you into their battles & their triumphs.
In my mind I questioned some of the supernatural things that were attributed to the Lord, and then I wondered why He wouldn't show His power in the face of darkness.
We have been amazed at what God is doing in these days to open people's eyes to the truth instead of being overcome by the enemy, especially in the Middle East.
Okay, I know these are Christian books, but I read them because they came highly recommended. The first two had good stories, good enough to overcome the preaching. The third basically drudged up some leftover characters from the first two books and had them quote the entire Bible to eachother. Oh, plus there were some pretty outrageous "heavenly miracles" in this book, while the other two managed to tell a good story without depending on acts of God for the storyline to progress.
He won his freedom through fighting, but now his life is going to change forever.I recommend this book to young adults.This book almost felt like a stand alone.
I am sad that this series is over but I am looking forward to reading more of Francine Rivers books she officially has me hooked.One of my favorite quotes from this book was:“God will not send us into battle without the tools we need to stand against the enemy.” Many people complained that this series was too religious and did not like it.
After reading A Voice in the Wind and An Echo in the Darkness, As Sure as the Dawn is the perfect closure to the Mark of the Lion Series.
In the prologue the book starts right off how the first book finishes, with Atretes talking to Hadassah in the dungeons of Ephesus.
Theophilus, a roman, guides Atretes back to his home in Germania and saves his life multiple times when Atretes' pride got in the way.
By the time I got to the end of the book, As Sure as the Dawn, I did not want to finish it because then the series would be over.
I realize these books are fiction, however, I believe that they must be somewhat representative of what life may have been like centuries ago, shortly after the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
Realizing what the early Christians risked to follow Him shows how strong their faith was...in comparison with my easy life in a country where I am allowed to worship as I please without the fear of persecution.
This book was also great and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it, however I knocked it down a star because I felt like there were a few parts that were just "too much" for me in terms of believability.
I appreciated her Christian emphasis and attention to historical detail but, like so many modern writers and filmmakers, so much of the book is devoted to the bad behavior of the unconverted or the slow, stumbling process of the newly converted.
There is also a great deal of mysticism passing for true spiritual growth and closeness to God. I found little spiritual depth here.
They are also so female-dominated that she seems unconcerned with God's plan for men and women.
Granted, men may be hard-converted, and women may come to Christ sooner, but to have women do all the real spiritual growing and activity is troubling.
What can I say about this book. It was so wonderful, yet I felt so sad when I finished it. This amazing trilogy was  over . I loved Rizpah; what an inspiring character. I loved Theophilus. I loved Atretes, but I was a little disappointed at how he kind of just 'forgot' about the Lord, and went back into the way he had been. I absolutely abhorred Anomia. She was worse than Julia! Overall, such a wonderfully inspiring and amazing book. Looking back on the series, I have to say that the first was my favorite. I love Hadassah! :)
This was my favorite book out of the 3 in the series. There was more romance in this one and as always despair. However, I thought it was great writing and really kept me captivated. definitely worth reading this book to finish the series.
Didn't want this series to end and put the book down after the last page with a sigh of satisfaction and regret. Satisfaction at a lovely ending to the three book series and a sigh of regret that the journey was ended.
it is one of the books that make you want to be a better person, it is calling to your very inner you. This is what I call Christianity
This series did not disappoint! I loved all of them and will read them again.
Wow, this series was sooo good. I was getting goosebumps because it was so good! Francine Rivers wrote a masterpiece when she wrote these stories!
Maybe because Hadassah and Marcus were closer to my age (and their love story is one of my favorites of anything I've ever read), whereas Rizpah and Atretes are quite a bit older and more adult.
I found them harder to relate to because their emotions and thought processes were so much more mature (Hadassah and Marcus thought like angsty teenagers!
But it felt in some places like it was written for the sake of another sequel and not as much for the messages the author was trying to convey.
I felt like she put less into the story than in the previous books, and the ending seemed rather rushed.
The third and last book in Francine Rivers, Mark of the Lion series, and again, this isn't a book that I would normally pick up and read but a coworker let me borrow all but this last book which I got a the library, because she thought I'd like them, which I did enjoy reading the series and I'm glad I did.I would have to give this book 2 stars being that it's not as good as the first book " An Echo in the Darkness" which was my favorite in the series.
This classic series has inspired nearly 2 million readers.
Both loyal fans and new readers will want the latest edition of this beloved series.
This edition includes a foreword from the publisher, a preface from Francine Rivers and discussion questions suitable for personal and group use.
My husband made fun of me on this one because it looks so much like a Romance novel on the cover.
And I have to say out of the 3 Mark of the Lion series, this last one read much like a romance novel until about half way through before the story seemed to pick back up the pace Rivers had going with the last two.
Atretes anger and rage...
When Atretes and Rizpah arrive in Germania, I identified with the fear the Chitti tribe had and thought it wrapped up well.
This was a crummy ending to a pretty good series.
After a couple times of this he said, "I like this book a lot better when you just sum it up for me." I agree whole-heartedly.
And the ending - blah.
It's like she got tired of writing the book and just had to get over with it so she gave one to two sentence updates on each of the characters.
The entire ending took 2 pages.
2 PAGES people.
The book had a lot of promise, but don't read it - just have someone sum it up for you.
The beginning of this book was good, a good setting and characters and story. Good messages about putting aside anger and learning to grow in gentleness and forgiveness. However, the second half I lost interest and it changed direction. It was like a different story and writing. It was too preachy for me, very long sections about spreading Christianity, and was too drawn out. I didn't like most of the new characters in the second half. Overall, the story was ok, 2.5 stars. Not Francine River's greatest writing.
This book was colossally stupid. I gave it two stars rather than one only because it finished out a storyline from an earlier book, which I actually liked, but I think 1 1/2 stars would have been better. On top of that, I got this used from someone and it had the most ridiculous Fabio-cover on it. Judging the book by its cover should have scared me away from this soap opera.
