https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2811.A_House_Like_a_Lotus
the character of Zachary Gray - I know he's supposed to be slick and attractive and all, but he just repels me, and I can't imagine why Polly O'Keefe (or Vicky Austin) ever gives him the time of day, much less spending all that time with him.
L'Engle obviously saw some value in him as a character (or plot device) - maybe just because of the words she could put in his mouth - but I think he's awkward and out of place and completely unbelievable and utterly icky.As an adult, I have to say that the relationship between Polly and Renny squicked me out too.
Maybe it's because I've done so much work with people who have a history of sexual abuse, but this book struck me as mostly being about would-be predators and actual predators.
The book's structure is also kind of nonsensical, and it is never wise to have the story you're telling in flashback be more interesting than the story of the present.
Considering this is a later book for L'Engle, it almost seems like she took for granted the fact that people would read it.
In case you haven’t figured this out yet, here’s a hint about my personality: If I’m reviewing a Madeleine L’Engle book, it means I had a rough week and needed to be with an old friend.Madeleine L’Engle is that friend to me.
No need to bog you down with details, but let’s just say that I’m in a grieving season, work has been super stressful, and I’m struggling not to punch people in the face on a daily basis.So, Madeleine to the rescue.This is the original, 1984 cover, and the version I read.A synopsis:16 year old Polly O’Keefe lands in Athens, Greece, with a whole slew of hurts, grief and secrets.
I think older teen readers, or readers who just love good characters, will discover traces of themselves in Polly and her friends.
Embarrassingly bad. Like L'Engle does Judy Blume or something. Maybe an after-school special. Back and forth between stories, neither of which is particularly compelling. I had thought we had seen the last of that idiot Zachary Gray, but he's back, as if nothing had happened. This book is eminently skippable, alas.
This is one of my all-time favorite L'Engle books.As protagonists go, I love Poly/Polly O'Keefe more than any of the other L'Engle main characters except Meg. Even if Polly keeps going out with Zachary Gray (duh!).
Who is special and real and fascinating and loving and helped me start, when I was a mildly angry young person, to accept a close family member who is a Lesbian.
And then Madeleine, whom I trusted and loved through her books, said to me through the character of Max that it's okay to love someone who loves differently...
Oh gosh, the O'Keefes give me an inferiority complex!
Just way too perfect.
Maybe I'm just too old, but the sexual relationship between Renny and Poly grosses me out - I can't remember now how I felt about it when I first read this book as a young teen.
As for the treatment of lesbianism in the book, it's misguided.
The O'Keefe parents sort of say that as long as the gays don't flaunt it, it's okay - no, just no!
As for flaunting it, how about the way you flaunt your heterosexuality with your eleventy billion children, hmmmm?
In hindsight, one should probably read this trilogy before reading An Acceptable Time, but since all the novels are technically standalone stories, the development of the characters should be self-contained as well in the sense that you get more growth if you read all the books, but no one feels underdeveloped if you only read one.This is the only book in the series (and the only of L'Engle's fiction books I've read so far) that is written in first person, which is just odd.
So it just felt off.On top of that, in the development of her friendship with Max and during her present day time on Greece and Cyprus, we learn that Polly, who is 16-years-old, has relationships of some kind with multiple guys who are in their early or mid-20s.
I first read this book in high school, and I remember it distinctly as the first I'd read that tackled homosexuality.
Now, re-reading as an adult, I can appreciate that the story is not about homosexuality, not really.
As I read, I wondered, "Is this a young adult book?" I had always mentally categorized it there because Polly (extra L now!) is the main character, but it actually felt more like an adult, literary fiction novel to me this time.
Maybe I would say it's best for mature YA readers, but maybe what I'm really saying is: this book is good for adults, too.
I love what Madeleine L'Engle can bring to the table: scientific and faith-based exploration by awkward characters in the midst of a chaotic world.
I've been reading deeper and deeper into her catalogue and unfortunately, it hasn't really paid off in this book.Pros: Polly is a character who has generally different experiences and relationships than most mainstream American kids, so that's kind of food for thought.
With Zachary, she is able to be in romantic situations without following them to sexland--cool.
Cons: Zachary Gray.
I felt that in A WRINKLE IN TIME series, you encountered weird characters that were actually pretty relate-able.
Here, there's all these seemingly normal characters who ends up totally not connecting to the audience.
I picked it up praying it would be as wonderful and the Time quartet; it wasn't.
Everything I loved about the quartet- the family themes, the love story without it being a romance, the purity, the amazing plot, how different it was- was lost in this book.
There were hundreds of times I wanted to yell "You have no right whatsoever to be in the amazing family you were born into!" She sure didn't act like she cared about her family, and that was my favorite part of the Quartet.
While it handles some issues very well I was frankly appalled by how casually a relationship between an older man (mid to late 20s) and a 16 year old girl was handled.
For one thing that the character’s parents allowed her to go out with an adult man, for another that the “love” scene was portrayed as no big deal when it was actually predatory and exploitative, to say nothing of illegal.
I really think you could, and probably should, just skip it entirely.{Read my full review of some L'Engle non-fiction and two of her fiction series here}
Bent Book (presents good as bad and bad as good). I was terribly dissapointed and even angry when I finished this. I felt betrayed by the author. Near the end, the author introduces homosexuality and pre-marital sex and presents them as good.
It reveals the warts and failures of Madeleine L'Engle's views on subjects that are very much in the forefront today, and if you judge her by current standards--or even 21st Century standards--this book has major flaws.
(view spoiler)[The way a lesbian's relationship is described to his daughter when she is distressed to hear about it is loving and for many if not most people at that time, progressive and accepting.
Finally, I read the theory that this book was never meant to be about Meg and Calvin's daughter Polly, but was originally meant to be about Vicky Austin.
I can see why this book would turn off a first-time reader, or a skeptic, or someone who holds all media up to a very high standard of inclusivity and representation.But if the book could be revised of these problematic elements (if Max's tragic flaw was alcoholism and, say, art fraud, rather than sexual assault), or if they could be clarified or addressed properly (Renny brought to justice, Zachary being not-quite-as-much-of-a-jerk), if L'Engle could rewrite the novel seeing the world as it is now, it could be hailed as what it is at its best -- a moving, graceful, and beautiful bildungsroman about forgiveness, connection, and the ability to let people be complicated, and love them despite all that.Yes, this book needed a review this long.
I'm puzzled that Polly's parents aren't more cautious of their 16-year old daughter spending time with a man in his mid-20s, even though he's a perfectly lovely man who generally exhibits restraint.
The traumatic event, when finally described, is still confusing - Max is drunk, says she needs "an affirmation of being," stands up, collapses, reaches for Polly and Polly flees.
In the end she does forgive, and calls the dying Max to say that she loves her, and it's a beautiful thing and I cried over it, but it's truly puzzling.Despite my beefs with the book I still love it and already want to re-read it.
It really felt like Renny was taking advantage of Polly after she had her traumatic encounter with the drunken, raving Max (sigh) and there was no word of consent on Polly’s part - she instead talks about how her body begins to feel strange as Remy just basically sticks it in.
Also, statutory rape?By this time I was feeling awful for L’engle’s protagonist, who was at the mercy of an author who doesn’t seem to know how to treat her better and gives her a pretty shitty lens to the world around her.
A House Like a Lotus is a coming of age story about Polly, who is the daughter of Meg Murry and Calvin O'Keefe from _A Wrinkle in Time_.
While the plot of this book is not complicated, L'Engle deals deftly with themes such as love and faith, and allows her characters to be complicated.
Furthermore, she, at the age of 66, in 1984, included GLBT characters in her book, and pretty much didn't make a big deal about the fact that she did.
It is the kind of book that entertains me but also speaks to me, and I am now off to reread more of Madeleine L'Engle's works.
One of the best characteristics of her books is that the characters are often complex and contradictory.
I feel that this book is one of the most complex of the YA genre.
It deals with heroes who have feet of clay and that is something young people (and some old) need to come to terms with.
Some of the things introduced in this book allow young people to gain skills in recognizing inappropriate actions of beloved adults and explore their own reactions to the situation vicariously.This said, it is a great book and one that should be interesting and helpful to a wide variety of kids.
I recently re-read the Wrinkle in time series, which I loved as a teen, then decided to try the O'Keefe books to see what happened to Meg and Calvin's children. Arm of the Starfish and Dragons in the Waters were interesting, but not the same as the fantasy of the Wrinkle in Time books. This one was so far from the first series, I didn't enjoy it much. I was surprised at all the adult themes that came up. Not appropriate for young adults at all, in my opinion.
Similar to Polly, I have gone to Europe to forget a traumatic relationship with an older (married) person, and I have had a selfish, manipulative, and inappropriate married man tell me that it was my fault I fell in love with him as a teenager.
Overall, Max was the only character I liked in the book and I don’t see why L’Engle would take pains to get her readers to accept and love a gay couple only to have them turn out to be pedophiles.2.
Max introduces Renny and Polly, which is the only fault I can see with Max in the book in my current understanding of it.
This novel discussed sexuality more than I am comfortable with. I think it's supposed to be a young adult novel, but I wouldn't want my kids reading it until they were in their late teens.The writing was superb.
Zachary Gray is a giant dick. he almost ruins this book and makes me not want to read Acceptable Time
It's not a betrayal.I wanted Polly to come on to Max. There are so many Greek references in this book, that it's not hard to make the leap that Max is the philosopher Socrates "corrupting the youth" and subverting the pursuer/pursued dichotomy to take advantage of inexperienced teens.
More, I wanted Max to say some really cutting things, to go back on all the hopeful things she had told Polly before and really go hard with "Life sucks and then you die," echoing self-serving philosophy Polly would later hear from Zachary.Also, basically everyone Polly encounters lectures her on "forgiveness" and "letting people get complicated" until I just wanted to tell them to STFU.
She doesn't need other people to pressure her or tell her how she's supposed so feel.
Spoilers ahead!As I read this book, I came to think of it as "the pedophile book." 16 year old Polly is involved in several relationships that ultimately seem inappropriate.
She rejects a sexual relationship with him, but he continues to "stalk" her, following her to a conference where she'll be working.3.
Ah, then there's Max: an older (40's?) lesbian who cultivates a relationship with Polly.
She gets drunk, and makes a pass at Polly, who runs and is traumatized.All three of these relationships made me flinch.
At the end of all of these cringe-worthy relationships, Polly calls Max and forgives her.
At 16, Polyhymnia O'Keefe has seen more different countries and had more different experiences than many people twice her age.
Can she figure out who she is becoming through her friendships and her Greek experiences?I enjoyed Polly's journey- I have since first encountering her as a 12-year-old in The Arm Of The Starfish.
But from Christian polemic* to pacing to plot to realistic character psychology to cultural sensitivity to the avoidance of condescension to actually entertaining the readership, this book misses its mark in every respect.I wrote a much angrier review right after I'd finished it.
when one moralizes /outside/ the dominant paradigm as much and as intensely as L'Engle does in all of her books).
This book is a grotesque (if inadvertent) failure on the last four counts, and the first wouldn't be nearly enough to carry it as a moral essay, let alone as a novel.
We get thoroughly immersed into how Polly things, which I feel is a better fit for Madeleine L' Engle than crazy murder plots of the first two books and how her dad seemed to lack ideal parental skills.
Why, I didn't give this rave reviews, even though it was 2x's better than first and second book is because Polly was hurt & broken by the drunk scene of Max this is the climax; with her at the end of the book finally talking to her on the phone to say she loved her which meant that she forgave her.
Plus, is it me, but did the book just suddenly end?
The book is basically a coming of age book for our narrator Polly.
Half comes in progressively traumatic flashback and half develops in the current time.
The book vacillates between being open and progressive and then turning into troubling, regressive sections.
The story explores Polly's complicated, troubled relationships with several characters, but I am most turned off by her relationship with Renny--who is set to look like the good guy.
Perhaps another part of the book's melancholy is knowing what happened to our heroine from A Wrinkle in Time.
Meg has a good family but cast away a lot of her personal ambition.
It started off slower and I wasn't sure how I felt about the back and forth between the present and the flashbacks, but overall, I think I enjoyed the story.
It focuses a lot on growing up and learning about the world.
It's definitely for older teens and adults and not for the normal age group for some of L'Engle's other books.
Polly is an interesting character that I felt kinship with.
If you're a L'Engle fan that wants to read all her books, this one isn't terrible.
But it does deal with a lot of heavy and touchy subjects.
I adore L'Engle, but this one falls flat.
The Max/Polly plot element is clumsy; the handling of sexuality and alcohol are awkward and insensitive.
What on earth?
So Max gets drunk and Polly is upset?
Age discrepancies between love interests in L'Engle novels are common, but it was thoroughly unsettling in this context.
As an aside: I really like the overlapping characters that wander between the Murray/O'Keefe and Austin family novels.
A House Like A Lotus is more like a strange after-school special than the expansive, complex philosophical coming-of-age novels that are L'Engle's best.
