https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/392566.The_Space_Merchants
Are you one of those people who miss Madmen desperately?
It's a good thing they have addictive snacks and drinks—like “Coffiest"—to drug everybody into thinking they are happy.Now who would you put in charge of a world like this, a world where the most important thing is to make people who have every reason to be miserable think they aren't miserable after all?
It is then that he learns, to his dismay, about the rank human misery his civilization creates to fuel its survival.You could do a lot worse than to give this book a try.
I like Frederik Pohl more the more of his books I read.Space Merchants, first published in 1952 is a science fiction gem.
Telling the tale of a capitalistic-anarchic society from the perspective of an advertising executive, Pohl describes a world where ancient maxims have been turned upside down – such as “Power enables, and absolute power enables absolutely.”Our hero is living the dream amidst a world of over-population and contract labor consumerism.
That's true of much of Pohl's work, he was an underrated master.
We hear a lot about “fake news” today, but it’s been around for awhile.
The protagonist here, Mitch Courtenay, a top-notch copywriter for a futuristic ad agency, sole job is to convince "consumers" that they need things exactly opposite of what they actually need, and he’s very good at it.
This future world is run by several large corporations, primarily ad agencies, and based entirely on the idea of consumerism.
It was published first in 1952 and it contains the typical male misogyny/female subservient attitudes seen in that era.
They had trouble finding a publisher originally until Ballantine agreed to do it.
Courtenay’s job is to make Venus sound attractive to the masses with promises of a better life, more space to live in, and good career opportunities.
As an executive Courtenay despises the Consies and everything they stand for, but in his predicament, he sees them as a ticket out of the lowly consumer class, back to the executive life.The Space Merchants was first published in 1954.
It believes that continued exploitation will mean the end of human life on Earth.”“It was an appeal to reason, and they're always dangerous.
I would not have been surprised to find out it was written twenty years after it was.Reading up about the origins of this novel, I was amazed to discover that Pohl actually decided to get a job in advertising just so he could know the industry better and write about it with more authority.
And yes, one certainly feels that he knows what he's talking about when reading this.This is a dystopian, consumerist future in which it is considered un-patriotic not to like advertisements and to be a fully participating consumer in a society of stark wealth inequality and acute shortages of basic things such as fuels, non-synthetic food and fresh water.
I first read this book for my German oral exam back in 1976, ah the English Summer of 76, what weather, what an idyllic Summer school holiday that was. Maybe that’s why I remembered the book with such fondness. That said it certainly stood the test of time and will be one of my favourites of the year. Great story telling, great characters and settings and just an all round excellent novel. Whether one enjoys sci-fi or not this novel is a classic and one that everyone should try. 5 stars indeed
Κάτι το οποίο,βέβαια,συμβαίνει στην εποχή μας.Η διαφήμιση είναι όντως ο κυρίαρχος του παιχνιδιού,ενώ οι επιστήμονες ψάχνουν στοιχεία ζωής σε νέους πλανήτες˙ ίσως όχι τόσο για την μετοίκηση σε άλλους πλανήτες,καθώς είμαστε ήδη πολλοί και ο παγκόσμιος πληθυσμός αυξάνεται,όσο για την αναζήτηση καυσίμων,μιας και αναμένεται η εξάντληση των ορυκτών καυσίμων του πλανήτη μας σε λίγα χρόνια.Δεδομένου ότι αυτά που περιγράφονται στο βιβλίο συμβαίνουν ήδη, τότε,ναι,μιλάμε για ένα κλασικό βιβλίο.Όμως,ακριβώς γι’αυτό το λόγο,δεν προσφέρει κάτι φρέσκο σήμερα.Βέβαια,δεν μπορώ να μην σταθώ στον γρήγορο ρυθμό του βιβλίου, καθώς και στο χιούμορ και τον κυνισμό του.Στοιχεία,δηλαδή,που το κάνουν ένα ενδιαφέρον ανάγνωσμα.Στα συν,και το ωραίο εξώφυλλο.Έχοντας διαβάσει (μόνο) δύο βιβλία από τις εκδόσεις «Μέδουσα»,απ’ τις οποίες κυκλοφορεί το βιβλίο στα ελληνικά,μπορώ να πω ότι προσφέρουν στο κοινό ενδιαφέροντα αναγνώσματα.Συνολικά,δεν μπορώ να πω ότι έχασα τον χρόνο μου διαβάζοντάς το.Μπορεί να μην ήταν κάτι που με ταρακούνησε,αλλά νομίζω ότι υπάρχουν πολλοί που θα το απολαύσουν *περισσότερο*.
And there is the usual group of revolutionaries working clandestinely for the "good of all."The Space Merchants has been on one of my must read lists for twenty years, and I've only now gotten around to it because I tracked down a two part radio play of it on Relic Radio's Sci-Fi podcast.
Mitchell Courtenay could easily be the Don Draper of Sci-Fi pop culture.
And there's even a part for Peter Dinklage (and a damn good one).Charles, you had it absolutely right.
Unfortunately, the 1950s vibe set several centuries in the future & heavy-handed treatment made it too slapstick for me most of the time.
They were well updated with addictive alkaloids & dovetailed in (note how it is harvested) with lab grown meat based in part on Carrel's chicken heart which was used by other SF authors at the time such as Robert A.
This edition was published prior to Pohl's update in 2011 which I'm not sure I'd want to read, but am curious about.
If you've read both, I'd love to know what you think.
Originally written in the fifties, this version was updated in 2010. In comparing the two versions together it is impressive to see how little was actually changed, mainly just trading out old company names with newer, more familiar brands. Like the original Blade Runner film, I find that the book's predictions of corporate domination and relentless advertising are moving ever closer to reality, even if many of the specific companies referenced did not survive the journey. Which shows, it would seem, that it is easier to recognize overall social and market trends then to predict who will survive them.
En un futuro cercano, surge el Proyecto Venus, que tiene como misión colonizar dicho planeta.
Dicho contrato al final ha caído en manos de la Sociedad Fowler Schocken, a la que pertenece el protagonista y narrador de la novela, Mitchell Courtenay, alto ejecutivo al que se le asigna el Proyecto Venus.‘Mercaderes del espacio’ (The Space Merchants, 1954), escrita por Frederik Pohl y C.M. Kornbluth, es una visión satírica de una sociedad mercantilista y consumista hasta el exceso.
Quizá haya personajes y situaciones que hayan envejecido mal, pero sigue siendo una gran novela de ciencia ficción, escrita con gran ritmo, inteligencia e imaginación: estrategias, conspiraciones, política, terroristas, conservacionistas, etc.
This was a reread of one the books that first got me into science fiction and it was totally worth rereading all these years later.
One of things I really enjoy about fifties sci-fi was the sparse writing style.
In well under two hundred pages you get amazing world building and a brilliant storyline.
So many great ideas for a slightly terrifying but believable future world are evoked but not explained to death leaving your imagination free to run wild.
The concept of 'chicken little' had remained with me for thirteen years since my first read and it's still just as creepy and memorable now.
تمتاز هذه الرواية عن غيرها من روايات الخيال العلمي الكلاسيكية أنّها مكتوبة بلغة سلسة وترتكز على تعاقب الأحداث، بدلاً من الإغداق بالفلسفة والجوانب العلمية.تحكي الرواية عن مستقبل يكون الإستهلاك هو عنوان تلك الحقبة، حيث تكون شركات التسويق والتصنيع تقود الأمن والسياسة والاجتماع بشكل صريح ومباشرة.
ومن هم الأشرار؟ الأشرار هم أصدقاء البيئة الذين يشغّبون على هذا العالم.في وسط هذه الحكاية شخصية تُدعى (مِتش): مِتش موظّف في أكبر شركات التسويق، ويُحال له ملف تسويق كوكب زحل كمستقبل مناسب للبشرية.
أترككم هنا لكن جمال الرواية أنّها لا تقوم بأي (تبشير) لمفهوم الحفاظ على البيئة بأي شكل من الأشكال، إلا أنّه يجعلك تفكّر فيها من أوّل صفحة.

4.0 stars. One of the better collaborations between Frederik Pohl and C. M. Kornbluth. Excellent world-building and an intelligent, satirical plot make this one of the better books from this period.
(The authors don't specify the setting in time here, but I would infer that it's at least well into the 21st century, not the 20th.) Rachel Carson's Silent Spring is usually credited with sparking the modern environmental movement; but I think this book, with its warning that our present path of orgiastic consumption may not be environmentally sustainable (let alone desirable), might have helped plant some of the movement's seeds.Pohl's rapier wit is a great strength of the book, which brims with deadpan humor and unexpected lines that blindside the reader with revelations of just how bad the world being depicted is.
Hard to believe this was written like 50+ years ago, because it is so incredibly relevant to our modern times.
For example: it takes a look at the dangers of imperialistic corporations & greed, the plight of workers and the ungodly conditions under which some of them have to work, the clear and unmistakeable division of class in society, the total lack of concern for the environment and the treatment of those who care about it and want change.
It's rare, but it happens.here's just a little synopsis:Mitch Courtenay is an incredibly savvy and successful ad man in a New York of the future.
First time I've read this novel in decades.
Maybe from "Chicken Little".And in my undergraduate days, I worked part time for Burns Detective Agency.
It was pretty respectable at that time, but certainly had a checkered past, which likely accounts for Pohl & Kornbluth's choice of it as well as Pinkerton and Brinks as competing thuggeries.I have to say that now, these many years after its debut, this book is amazingly prescient and well written.
I recently re-read it and found it still to be very worthwhile.
My recollection of the other is a little dim, but I remember liking it.
Written in 1950, this novel can be seen as an American response to George Orwell's "1984." One of the most unbelievable aspects of that novel was that Ingsoc, English Socialism, would somehow come to dominate the United States.
What happens is far more likely; the most base and brutal expression of American capitalism taking over the hearts and minds of the rest of the world.
Only the characters perceive the problems in a quite different, very American way: either something better will always come along, or like the Consie conservationist terrorists of the novel, we can try to do something to make things better.Still relevant today, "The Space Merchants" deserves to be read more.
The concept of this book was genius--the authors imagine a world in which advertisers control the world, and citizens are more loyal to their favorite brand names than their country.
Mitch Courtenay works for one of the world's super advertising agencies, and he is put in charge of the newest ad campaign: selling the colonization of Venus.
With Earth's current overcrowding problem, it shouldn't be too hard of a sell, but a million other factors seem to complicate Mitch's progress.
There's also the fact that Mitch's life is continually threatened by a rival ad agency that wants to steal back the Venus project.
Dan Bittner did a fantastic job narrating this science fiction novel.I don't know what I had expected, probably a space opera, but this sci fi book wasn't that. Some parts of its view of the future in which the United States society and government are run by advertising agencies made me laugh and others made me wince.
Ideas that I expect must have seemed ground-breaking in the early 1950s have been widely recycled in the intervening sixty years so that what surprised me most was seeing ideas that I had always associated with the 1960s counter-culture – about the manipulativeness of advertising – the gulf between what is promised and what is delivered – and about the power of multinational corporations over both their workers and the wider world – appearing in a book written in the late 1940s.
Quite simply one of the best science fiction novels published in the 1950s (only Alfred Bester's The Stars My Destination, Brian Aldiss' Non Stop and Kurt Vonnegut's The Sirens of Titan truly compare)... This satire on the advertising industry is so far ahead of its time that I was staggered! The world it depicts resembles the future Earth of the film Blade Runner perhaps even more accurately and acutely than Philip K. Dick's novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? does... I must keep a look out for more Pohl and Kornbluth. They were obviously an astoundingly talented team!
The Space Merchants has a very 1984 feel: the underground movement, the profession of the main character... but it's very different as well. A similar situation, if you like, but with a capitalist society taken to the extremes rather than a socialist one. I'm surprised at people saying it feels outdated; I'm with the people who feel it still seems surprisingly relevant for something written in the 1950s.It's a very quick read, and one worth reading not so much for characters or relationships, but for the way the idea plays out.
To call it a science fiction version of Mad Men isn't totally off base, although the key difference is that Mad Men is a work of retrospect -- the writers and the audience all know that the society presented at the start of the series is a dried out husk that's about to be tossed aside by a social revolution -- whereas The Space Merchants was written by people who had no idea that the '60s were about to come crashing down on Madison Avenue.
If aliens came to see little ol' us, they would necessarily be so far advanced technologically that they might consider us lichens.That said, there are moments in Pohl and Kornbluth's The Space Merchants (1952) where well-heeled advertising executives take off for a round of golf or a game of tennis and appear to be playing something very much like a Wii machine.
Given the recent Supreme Court ruling on corporations' free speech rights when it comes to political contributions, this development may far outweigh whatever foresight the authors showed when combining physical exercise with video games.
Savršeno!!! Kakva uživancija!
THE SPACE MERCHANTS. (1953). Frederik Pohl & C. M. Kornbluth. ***. This was included in the collection from The Library of America in “American Science Fiction 1953-1956.” As a strange coincidence, this was the year that I began reading science fiction (at thirteen years old). I probably read this book, since it seemed familiar, but after all these years, who knows. It’s the story of the war between two mega advertising agencies in the far future. They are both after the same account which i
It’s the story of the war between two mega advertising agencies in the far future.
Our narrator is the head of the section of the agency who owns the account so far.
They have to be winners, for why else would anyone else want to go to Venus?
Our narrator soon becomes the focus of a series of dirty tricks from the rival agency and has to undergo a variety of escapes to ultimately get back on track with his Vecus project.
Let me just give you a glimpse of that world.There is immense air pollution and people either use soot-extractor nostril plugs or a bulky oxygen helmet outdoors.
Over population is a major problem and space is so dear that ordinary people sleep on stairs of high-rise buildings.
Again consider the fact that this book was written 59 years ago, so it was really really way ahead of its time.
Part of what helps is that the protagonist Mitch, whose values you are to deplore, is nonetheless very smart and amusing.A couple of quotes - Mitch's boss talking to him about Mitch's official status as a 'star class copywriter' (this rank puts him far above the consumer and even tourist classes):"That's power, Mitch, absolute power.
Absolute power ennobles absolutely."Mitch, after talking to a member of the movement resisting the current society's overdrive:"I hated the twisted minds who had done such a thing to a fine consumer like Gus. It was something like murder.
