https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1992216.Chronicles_of_the_Lensmen_Volume_1
The Lens is a large gemlike object set into a wristband that allows the wielder to use telepathy, among other things.The first book, Triplanetary, is mostly background material and setup for later stories although there are some good space battles.Things really pick up with the second book, First Lensman.
Virgil Samms receives the first Lens from Mentor on Arisia, Rock Kinnison runs for president, and the Galactic Patrol is formed.
Kimbal Kinnison, grandson of Rock, traipses around the galaxy hunting the Boskone pirates, ascending to the next stage of Lensmanship along the way.The Lensman stories lay the groundwork for lots of science fiction that came afterwards.
He has been called the originator of the "Space Opera" with the Lensmen series.
I remembered reading these books as separate paperbacks back in the day, and this 1998 omnibus of the first 3 books - Triplanetary, First Lensmen, and Galactic Patrol - is a faithful rendition of those old "classics" in the genre.
This edition has the full version of Triplanetary covering all of the Arisa vs.
Eddore chapters at the beginning; chapters which are usually edited out of the newer printings of "Triplanetary" as a solo offering.
The two volumes of "The Chronicles of the Lensmen" deserve five stars NOT because they are great literature, NOT because the dialogue is scintillating, NOT because the characterizations of the main protgaonists are deep and probing, NOT because the plot is sublte and thought-inducing, because none of that is true.
For these reasons alone, these volumes deserve five stars.If you are not happy without assigning deeper philosophical meaning to books that may not have any deep philosophical meaning, you could look at the "Chronicles" as the apotheosis of the Great American Hero of the 1930s and '40s -- male, white, obviously superior to everyone but charmingly self-effacing, morally incorruptible, who encounters stiff resistance but always comes through in the end.
Though I'd have to say the end of the 3rd book is just about the worst I've ever encountered.
The worst part of all three books, is the first book itself, "Triplanetary", getting accustomed to the terms and usage was a little off putting.
It was especially odd seeing familiar terms used in an unfamiliar manner, and being a child of the 70's and 80's, the changes in sci-fi vocabulary made acclimating to these books a bit awkward, but not insurmountable and very worth while.
While yes, it is there, it is not an overwhelming theme of the books.
Actually there are plenty of sci-fi books that I think are MUCH better written than this. But I think this is an early classic and so a must read. I first read this series when I was at school and have reread it many times. Though I now think much of it is not really so well written, I still love it!!!If I read it critically from my perspective as a Christian then there is much about the world view behind it with which I disagree (actually that is true for so many books science fiction, fantasy or otherwise).
If you're a fan of modern science fiction, you should put these on your 'must read' list. You can't have read any number of Heinlein or Asimov books without catching a reference to these awesome and genre defining books. I waited for 15 years to find a reprint of them all together so I could finally enjoy them. Well worth the wait.
Space opera at its best. Ignore the reviews from those who wanted this to be more; it isn't a great epic, it's a fun space adventure.
I ordered this 1st volume after having seen the animated movie from Japan when I was a wee lad.
When the book finally came in I read it cover to cover.
It was so unlike the movie, but so much better.
I feel in love with the space opera of long ago.
The story just worked and I enjoyed every word as I read it.
I've since read it again and still love it.
The development of characters in impressive.
The characters easily became formed in my mind as I read through the exploits.
A remarkable book. Despite being written in the 40's and 50's, it is still a great story. Forgiveness must be extended with a distorted view of the future from the 50's sensibility ('calculating machines' being large and heavy and requiring punch-cards, a lack of non-caucasian characters, and the female characters, while written from an extremely forward view for that time period, seem dated). Surprisingly complex planetology & alien cultures. A story that arcs over an aeon, and more specifically over a stretch of several generations. Definitely reading the rest of the series.
Read on LibriVox (free audio books in the public domain) as separate books.
Coming from the pulp magazine era, E.E 'Doc' Smith's Lensmen books seem barbaric to me.
What's kept this book in the sci-fi culture so long is the sheer ambitiousness of the author - Smith has an agenda, and The Lensmen is his manifesto.
Triplanetary is mostly a ridiculous series of ever-escalating spaceship battles, First Lensman is more of a simplistic political and espionage thriller, and Gray Lensman is a solo space-hero adventure.
I'd recommend this book to young teenagers or people looking for a bit of history / nostalgia, but I'd warn casual readers to stay away, especially readers comfortable with the relative sophistication of modern sci-fi.

This is vintage sci-fi and might be hard to find. It is a six book series, with the last four being written from 1937-1948. The prequel stories were added later. This is the "Tolkien" of Space operas. The super-science that it features is also very telling of it's age; spaceships that travel through the ether, and no computers. The main plot concerns the lensmen which are the galactic police. Humans so totally incorruptible that they are the only ones trusted with thwarting massive transgalactic plots.
Extremely tough read, with a myriad of characters bouncing around with several having double identities. Another one to try to read again, if for nothing more than seeing where the genre of 'Space Opera' began.
Clunky but groundbreaking.
