https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45252.Pandora_s_Star
Don't get me wrong: I liked Pandora's Star from the start, but my enjoyment slowly ramped up from, "this is good" to "this is good" and then it plateaued somewhere around, "OMG, why didn't I know about this book earlier?" But it was slow at the beginning.
And suddenly it started making sense.Hamilton surprised me a lot in Pandora's Star.
When the barrier drops and MorningLightMountain observes the Second Chance's wormhole-powered hyperdrive, it starts thinking about faster-than-light travel, learns about the Commonwealth, and begins plotting its expansion into the rest of the galaxy.
As a result, I'm not sure I can say that I truly 'enjoyed' it; it's well-crafted, overall, but at the same time not without its frustrations.First, the good stuff: there's a hugely epic plot here, ultimately concerned with ensuring the continued survival of the human race; bold, three-dimensional characters who are intriguing, and draw you into their story; plot twists that you truly never see coming, and which are revealed with a subtle mastery that forces you to rethink everything you've read up until that point;and a fascinating, amazingly-thought out world that all of this is set in.On the other hand, however, the book has its problems, chief of which is its length and pacing.
From the other ratings, there are lots of people who like this a lot, so it may be unfair to review this book in comparison with the best "hard science fiction." Thus, this is a warning for the other people who don't know what "space opera" is and are looking for the next Asimov or OS Card.
According to Wikipedia, "New space opera proponents claim that the genre centers on character development, fine writing, high literary standards, verisimilitude, and a moral exploration of contemporary social issues." That all sounds great but Pandora's Star is a drawn-out affair with tons of useless details, many intertwining sub-plots, and many less-than-engaging characters.
For a book about faster than light space travel, things move very ponderously.
6.0 stars. This one may make it onto my list of "All Time Favorites" but I am going to wait until I finish Judas Unchained as the two books should really be treated as one VERY LONG novel. This was an amazing read filled with mind blowing ideas and superb (and I really mean superb) world-building. Do not let the length of the book keep you from giving it a try. It is incredibly well-written throughout and I think the length is warranted given how much is going on. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!
Ozzie Isaac, the super-wealthy, pragmatic partner for Nigel’s science, makes a personal quest to draw out the Silfen on anything useful they may know about the star-cloaking event and ends up on an epic journey on foot with a boy that mysteriously takes him to unknown worlds and survival challenge without the benefit of technology.
Her investigations of their terrorist activities eventually aligns with the narratives of the other characters when the group, the Guardians of Selfhood, make a well-orchestrated assault on the nearly complete starship and base.The expedition gets underway and some exiting discoveries are made about the alien threat to humans and other sentients of the galaxy, as masterfully revealed in the thrilling orchestrations of the diverse plot elements.
Because it's LONG.Throw in an enormous cast of characters who won't die because they can be uploaded and put back in new bodies, complete with full rejuvenation treatments that sometimes go wrong, space travel, wormhole technologies, and a huge Commonwealth of systems fully colonized.Add characters of all stripes: from reporters to police to politicians to terrorists to technologists, throw them into a slowly boiling cauldron of scientific intrigue with a few Dyson spheres locking away an alien species, leave even more to deal with the political consequences back home.
This is sometimes a problem with super-long novels.
I somehow managed to slog through all 989 pages of this, and it never completely lost its narrative thread, in spite of an astonishing redundancy in unnecessary description.
By the end of this tome, Hamilton has *almost* managed to put together enough plot elements to sucker you into picking up the equally-hefty second volume.
I have better things to do than wade through 300 more pages of irrelevant description that does nothing to move the plot forward, does nothing to shape or contextualize any characters, and does nothing to enhance the reader's experience.
3.5 stars, rounding upQuick pros: complex story, huge cast of characters, and it was cool to see how people crossed paths.
With huge stakes!It's easier to spew about the cons than pros with this one, honestly.
Paula is the only main female character who doesn't get a sex kitten moment.
And just - wow - Hamilton's portrayal of women constantly using sex to manipulate men was gross.
Hamilton describes a lot of stuff - planetary geography, city layouts, every single thinv a character does, etc.
Hopefully Hamilton ditches the harems and sex nymphets and angry men calling their wives whores.
The story is set some 300 years in the future where wormhole technology has allowed humanity to spread out to begin colonising other star systems.This was a big book and a lot denser than I expected as well.
He basically just throws you in with the nitty gritty of the character he’s developing at the time and just lets you have it.For Example let’s spend a day riding shotgun with Intersolar police officer, Paula Myo. Fantastic.
That tunnel we went through is actually a wormhole, one of many that connect all the human worlds into a single Commonwealth network making all the star systems virtual neighbours.
This massive tome has everything that a sci-fi lover would ever want...Review to comeWhat a total waste...I never came back and wrote a review for this book which is now among my very favorite novels.
Hamilton creates a massive cast, places them in an epic adventure, and has it cover vast distances of space.
This is truly space opera at its finest.I wish that I had taken the time to write a real review on this book as it deserves massive praise.
I can only say that this is one of my favorite science fiction novels of all time.
There is a great mystery and adventure in this space opera.....A MUST READ!!!
I'm not usually one to scream "sexism", but Hamilton can't resist talking about any female character's looks and about how some male character would like to have sex with her.
It seems that EVERY woman in the Commonwealth is beautiful, especially if she's recently undergone rejuvenation at 280 and looks 18 with hormones to match.
Honestly, if every woman is beautiful and sexy, would anyone even notice?
I notice that Hamilton never describes the men, unless it's through the eyes of one of the horny women.
The book skips back and forth between many storylines, but Lee never pauses in his narration so you know that you're on a different plot.
Also, beside the epic sf plot the book contain elements of several genres of fiction: murder mystery, police procedural, a bit of courtroom drama, espionage, terrorism, fanaticism, a dash of soap opera, a smidgen of romance, and of course the entire kitchen sink.From my discussions with other sf readers there are a number of detractors who criticized Hamilton for writing two dimensional characters.
There are at least three characters that I care about or find interesting, and one of them is an alien incapable of speech or hearing as it lacks any faculty to handle sound and can only communicate through images, gestures or graphics.
First of all, let's get all the bad things about this book out of the way.
let's see.
Now, the good: and, boy, there is a lot of that.
This novel reads like a greatest hits of everything that is cool about science fiction.
It's probably here.
It actually reads faster than you might suspect too, mainly because it's paced so evenly.
There is a lot going on here.This is probably the shortest review I've written.
Which is ironic, considering the size of the novel concerned, but I don't have time to linger, Judas Unchained isn't going to read itself.
At the end of the day, I liked Pandora's Star enough to finish it and continue with the second half of the story (Judas Unchained).
For some folks who are interested in visions of future technology, it might be worth a read just for that alone.The bottom line for me is that this is worth a read, but be prepared for a very long book that ends - literally - halfway through the story when things are finally starting to get good.
So just plan ahead to pick up Judas Unchained to find out what happens.
Don't be fooled by the separation of the "Commonwealth Saga" into two books (this one and "Judas Unchained").
:)More "mature" and with a more refined style than the "Night's Dawn" trilogy, the "Commonwealth Saga" is still a mix of a good number of different story lines that flow towards a (very distant) convergence point.
I've yet to read "Misspent Youth" (set in the same universe, only much earlier) and "The Dreaming Void" (first book of the "Void" trilogy, later in the same universe), but I'll definitely give them a try.
Superb, Awesome! The first-half of The Commonwealth Saga is 988 pages. The second half "Judas Unchained" is 1,236 pages and completes the "2,200 page single book". Don't be scared off! This is an incredible value!This is very Good, hard sci-fi, many many characters, so it takes a while to get into the book. When I started the first book, I felt there were far too many, too wordy descriptions of the local scene. Creative often, but perhaps the whole saga could lose 100 pages.The evolution of the aggressive alien species is truly Brilliant.See rest of review in Judas Unchained.
Sadly, although I think some of Hamilton's ideas are super interesting and would make for a hugely complex and exciting Universe, these good ideas are so few and far between in amongst the 1,000+ page length that with the time it took to get to the next 'moment' I had already lost my excitement for the last one.
I know a lot of people say that the Malazan series by Erikson is hard to get to grips with, for me, this was a hell of a lot harder to get excited by and even when I was excited, that tension was soon lost by the sheer page length.This story has a huge amount of characters and I couldn't begin to list them all here but I will discuss some of the more important ones and those who I followed with interest.
The story begins when man discovers 2 stars which have been sealed off by an unknown entity and his curiosity to know what lies beyond.
However Hamilton manages it well and at the end does indeed bring out the fear in men despite all their technological advancement and makes it believable.There is another interesting concept of SI the self aware artificial intelligence and it’s interaction with humans.
There are of course much more Hamilton has to offer but one must read the book to discover them3.
He does manage to build up tension with the main story but that’s about it.
I quite enjoyed Pandora's Star, and the vast universe Peter F. Hamilton creates. Where many science fiction writers take one significant technological advance and write about how their world would change around that, Hamilton has explored numerous game-changing advances all at once, and tried to see what wormhole travel/body rejuvenation/memory download would together do to a rapidly expanding human Commonwealth of planets.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Oh, and to show you how poorly fleshed-out these secondary characters turned out to be, I was unable to find one woman in the novel that was not somehow beautiful and closer to a man's fantasy than an actual believeable woman.Still; throughout all these gripes is an interesting bit of space opera waiting to unfold.
This promise has kept me going through this very long novel: that all I read so far was preparation for Peter Hamilton taking an awesome sledgehammer to his carefully constructed world.
Even characters I initially didn't like, I ended up excited to read about them and caring about their fates by the end of the novel.The plot starts with a pair of stars disappearing behind a massive barrier.
I would have liked to know a bit more about the process but Hamilton doesn't delve into the science of how it works.The plot really picks up around the half-way mark.
Needless to say, it prompted me to immediately pick up the second novel.Pandora's Star is a slow burn of a book with fascinating characters, interesting storylines, and a deep and substantial world.
Five stars for the perilous wormhole jouneys of Captain Kime and his good ship and crew.
And for the Prime aliens and their war mongering leader Morning-LightMountain.
THIS is why I read SF.
Four stars for Ozzie's dream-like trek across multiple worlds via the Silfen paths, man.Three stars for ultra-uber Detective Myo and her perpetual investigation of radical kilt-wearin' terrorists and the mystical Starflyer.
Two stars for gold digging Mellanie and her god-like partner.
And eco-friendly Mark and his oh-so-cute family...and puppy!One star for a morbidly obese book that is in dire need of a major liposuction edit.
C'mon, man!
Trama política, especulación, novela policíaca, ciencia ficción militar, primer contacto, aventuras, misterio, todos estos temas también están presentes en ‘La estrella de Pandora’.La historia nos sitúa a finales del siglo XXIV, en una sociedad transformada por los grandes avances tecnológicos.
El universo que nos ofrece el autor es rico en detalles, y no escatima a la hora de desarrollar sociedades, culturas, costumbres, economías, políticas, en una perfecta visión del futuro de la raza humana.Sin duda, ‘La estrella de Pandora’ nos devuelve la grandeza y el gusto por la buena ciencia ficción, aquella que nos acerca a un posible futuro, plausible y verosímil, sin dejar de lado el sentido de la maravilla y las ideas propias de las grandes novelas del género, lo que la ha convertido en todo un referente.
Somewhere after the 300th page, the real story starts to pick up...and it is a good one.Then it slows down again and finally the last 100 pages or so, it kicks into gear again big time.
If only we didn't have to go through so much useless crap to get to the good story.
But, I only give it two stars for boring me for such a long time.Will I read the sequel?
I will be first in line when they do.A book can be very long and not be boring.
And as much as I like John Lee, I need a new reader in my next book.
My wife does say I can tune her out, and unfortunately I think this happened with Mr. Lee as well for large parts of the book.There were great parts, and great characters.
Then there were long periods of slog and yawn.
I can't say how many times I'd regain focus and be like "when did they switch to that character?"I feel like I need some CliffNotes.
I definitely need some CliffNotes before I tackle Judas Unchained.
Executive Summary: A really enjoyable hard sci-fi space opera, with only a few minor complaints to prevent it from a 5 star rating.Audio book: This is the first book I've listened to narrated my Mr. Lee. He does an excellent job. He does a few voices, but I sometimes had a hard time determining who they were at first. It felt like he was using the same voices for multiple characters at time. Overall I was happy with the narration though. Full Review Is Epic Sci-Fi a thing? If not it should be. O
Executive Summary: A really enjoyable hard sci-fi space opera, with only a few minor complaints to prevent it from a 5 star rating.Audio book: This is the first book I've listened to narrated my Mr. Lee.
I'm probably missing some minor ones, but those are the biggies.It's a world where space exploration is boring because wormholes make travel between planets instantaneous, and the idea of spending money on ships and sending them to the far reaches of space to explore is considered a waste.That is until a mysterious event occurs on the edge of space prompts the need for the first space ship in centuries to be constructed.Meanwhile you have a terrorist, a murder investigation and a whole lot of politics to contend with.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
no idea )is the eternal fight between capitalism and Communism ,the writer Presents communism as the ultimate answer to the problem of the corrupt wealth ,and of course this is believed by one of the most intellectual characters in the book ......Now as the story progresses.
This book is some awesome sci-fi. The author busts opens two major limitations of modern science, mortality and faster than light travel, and coolness ensues.If that's not enough for you, there is political intrigue, conspiracies and hyper-aggressive aliens to battle.Please to enjoy.I give Pandora's Star five terra-formable planets out of five.
Without doubt, this has been one of my favourite reading weeks in years. Pandora's Star is the first book by Peter F Hamilton that I have read and I will not rest until I have read every other one of his novels, beginning with the conclusion of this unbelievably rewarding, complex and spellbinding story, Judas Unchained. A massive brick of a book but every page is golden.
