https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106646.The_Doomsday_Conspiracy
The Doomsday Conspiracy is very different from Sheldon’s other works.
It’s as if, Bellamy & the readers are running around circles till they reach the eventual climax.
The Doomsday Conspiracy is not very original either in theme or characterization; however, it is a thoroughly slick job of fiction writing.
Last but not the least, Dan Brown , the author of The Da Vinci Code, named The Doomsday Conspiracy as the book that inspired him to write thriller fiction, citing its "simplicity of the prose and efficiency of the storyline".
عده ای جهانگرد به طور اتفاقی شاهد ماجرایی میشن. اما طبق توافق کشورهای جهان کسی از مردم نباید از اون موضوع آگاه بشه. بنابراین یک جاسوس خبره فرستاده میشه تا تک تک شاهدان رو پیدا کنه. طبیعتا خود جاسوس به عنوان آخرین شاهد باید حذف بشه.
Several years before the X-files movie, Sidney Sheldon (writer of "I Dream of Jeannie") wrote this thriller about aliens and government cover ups.It's pretty silly over all. What was weird, though, is that Sheldon includes a bunch of real evidence of a government conspiracy in the book's postscript (dozens of scientists who worked on Reagan's Star Wars who mysteriously died).Moral of the story: Don't read books off of your mom's bookshelf even if you're really bored.
The Doomsday Conspiracy is another thriller novel by my favorite author, Sidney Sheldon.
I know I shall not go into the story in detail as it will contain spoilers but, personally I kind-of dislike this novel because this is a Sci-Fi and unfortunately I am not a fan of that kind of genre (especially those that contains aliens and zombies).Despite the fact that I was quite irked with the novel’s sci-fi twist, luckily, this novel involves illegal and barbaric ways of the government in covering up a situation that will cause public panic.
They are killing us!World's industrialization is the problem for Aliens.
Now, the secret agency from the strongest countries of the world have come together and formed the secret organisation 'Operation Doomsday' to fight against the Aliens.
The operation is hidden from the world in order to avoid public panic.One day, while making a trip to the earth, UFO consisting of 3 aliens crashes in the Alps of Switzerland.
Now, the Operation Doomsday is eager to find those 10 witnesses and stop them from spreading the news.
Robert is unknown about this fact until he hands them the final witness and his own life gets in danger.
The plot is indeed captivating. But Mr. Sheldon didn't do his homework on the USSR. The book swarms with American stereotypes about the Soviets. Bad Russian sweets, he says - bullshit, you should have tasted some before making statements like that. I don't want to list all those errors and provocative paragraphs in The Doomsday Conspiracy, yet the book had been written long after the end of the Cold War. Well, it's a work of fiction rather than a documentary, but still it looks like a cheap propaganda piece.
Here i am thinking i can't get anymore surprise from Sydney...then this book hit's me with a BAM!Dont get me wrong, i know Syd is full of twists and turn so i know, before even oppening this book that it is going to be a WOW.
BUt i neve expect it to blow my mind!I was reading the first few chapters and i keep turning the cover, making sure it was Sydney's work because this one was totally different!
i dont like it if people hates my favorite writer!)Anyway.
Actually i started hating mystery books, but reading this has turned me around.Uh-OH!
Why didn't he broke Robert's ex-wife's heart like she broke he's!
READ THE FREAKING BOOK!
Mesmo que estejamos vivendo em uma época que já está saturada com filmes dessa temática, Sheldon (que provavelmente foi um dos responsáveis por criar esse estilo de filme) consegue criar uma história extremamente envolvente e diria mesmo brilhante para a época em que foi escrita.As aventuras são protagonizadas pelo ex-marinheiro, comandante e espião Robert Bellamy, então um dos agentes mais bem sucedidos dos órgãos de inteligência dos EUA.
The Doomsday Conspiracy by Sidney Sheldon was a real entertainer!
The author’s style of writing is what I enjoyed the most, it was simple, clear, witty at times and fast paced too!
Other than that the plot was very gripping with enough twists and turns and mystery to keep the readers engrossed.
I am glad I read a Sidney Sheldon book at last it was a treat for a first time reader like me and I will definitely be reading more of his books!
My fault:DNF. Too wide open for me to follow.
When I was reading the critical parts of this book, I was like, "Oh please no....don't suggest that.....no...no....don't end it with aliens"...and then he did exactly that!
Why does it always end up with aliens?
Aliens are so...very, very boring.
I think bringing up aliens in any story is like a last resort of writers, like 'when in doubt, put aliens there'.
I bought this book without realizing it was sci-fi.
The reason I bought this was because of the author's fame in the international level.
I might read his books again, if he has written any non sci-fi that is, but I certainly wont be buying any without assurance.

wow, even Sidney Sheldon can write shitty novels. if you love Sidney Sheldon don't read this book.
Ubedljivo najbolja Sidni Šeldonova knjiga. Kako sam došla do 100 str, posle nisam mogla da stanem dok je nisam završila. Vauuu
Bellamy’s mission is to find the witnesses, but I would be more interested in the big discovery in the mountains if I were him.
The book resembles the structure of a movie script, with not much inner dialogue, and it seems that Sheldon has not given a thought about how best to reveal the big mystery.
Events are often presented like scenes in a movie, and it works for most of the time, but it would have been much more interesting if Sheldon valued the emotional aspect more.
As a movie, it would have been approximately 90 minutes long, and Bellamy wouldn’t have seem that ignorant.
They are so unbelievably wispy and ridiculous that I couldn't even move past them to forgive the low-hanging fruit of a story line.
For instance: a man is driving to work when he sees a woman on the side of the road waving.
It's necessary to any conspiracy story.
It's like Mr. Sheldon didn't want to waste time on these lower bits of the story that aren't as important.
Of course their hands regenerate with green slime when they're chopped off.
That really happens, green goo and all.
Because this is just some of the worst story telling I've ever seen.Baaad.
"Trust was the sine qua non." - Good story; awry end!The Doomsday Conspiracy, a thriller novel by (one of my favorite writers) Sidney Sheldon inspired Dan Brown to write thrillers - The reason that compelled me to read this book all the more!The protagonist Commander Robert Bellamy of US Naval Intelligence is chosen by the NSA to carry out a secret operation.
There's a whole lot to the story than it looked to him - Operation Doomsday!The novel is fast paced and gripping, but the end lay flat.
The first thing that struck me while I started to read this book is that this book has inspired an Indian Tamil language film named 'Thegidi' which I watched recently before reading this book.
As I had watched the movie everything in this book was familiar and I was able to guess who was the antagonist (even if I hadn't watched the movie).
Yet this book was the best thriller book I have ever read because I get bored in every thriller book at some point.
This was the only book that didn't bore me even in a single page.
A must-read, page-turner and rip-roaring contemporary book.
Giving 5 stars for every book i've read is not my style!
I just can't put down untill i finish reading !The story starts like normal sci-fi novel, but it is a complete mystery novel.
Robert bellemy, the main character, a spy(and a navy commander) given a mission to identify some eye-witnesses to a UFO crash.
He dont have their names/adress or something, just the number of people present at the time of UFO crash!
He starts finding every single witness and reports the same to the head quarters.
After the death of all the witnesses, those people try to kill Robert too.
This is by far the best book i've ever read. This book is filled with non-stop action and suspense. This novel takes place in modern day america and other parts of the world were they have spotted UFO's and a US Spy is sent to kill all who have seen them. It also has a interesting love story between two spies. The ending features the Aliens saying all the mistakes we've made and why they want to kill us all.
Antara novel dalam bahasa Inggeris yang awal dinikmati. Membantu dalam membuka koridor pengalaman membaca. Seingatnya jalan cerita yang rancak dengan espianoge (dicampur dengan Extraterrestrial?). Kini hanya beberapa adegan yang diingati termasuk assassination watak jurugambar dengan berpura-pura mahu mengambil gambar pasport. Apabila difikirkan balik terasa kurang masuk akal sebenarnya.
i expect more.but the end and the reason is not that much validi felt.those aliens things started horribly and it start begging in the end....
Like with what you eat, you need to watch what you read. Give Sidney Sheldon a miss if you have a chance!
Hold me suspense for hours and then it just plummeted to the ground. The ending sucks. I'm not fond of alien.
There is a lot of hopping from across countries in order to track individuals who are in suspect, and all of it seemed a little coincidental.I liked the character of Robert Bellamy, and his relationship with Susan.
As is his manner, Sheldon gives us the backstory of his two main characters, and although it plays no part in the central plot, it helps in understanding them a people.
Unlike in his other novels, here the main protagonist is a male, i.e, Robert Bellamy, and I liked the way he was portrayed, but it seemed Bellamy was too much of an enthusiast, and it spoiled the fun for me.
The twists, however, caught me off guard (again, this one flew past over me).I can’t help but think that Doomsday pushes to the reader certain agendas, one which being emphasized at the end of the novel as a supplement to the reader.
I am not much of a fan of such matter but I leave it to the readers though it my not be necessary to delve into it to enjoy the story.If you are a fan of conspiracy theories and thrillers, Doomsday Conspiracy might be the one for you.
A very good book for thriller and sci-fi readers. Not Sidney Sheldon's best. But still, worth reading.
I did enjoy this book. The usual twists and turns Sydney Sheldon creates (although a little predictable this time). It lost a star as I was disappointed with the abrupt odd end.
Another one of those one-day reads. It gets mildly interesting during the 'Hunted' phase; Jason Bourne and John Wick came to mind. Poor aliens didn't deserve to be a part of this. I dare you to read it with a straight face.
The pace was amazing. Loved it.
