https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12349.My_Year_of_Meats
4.5/5 In this root sense, ignorance is an act of will, a choice that one makes over and over again, especially when information overwhelms and knowledge has become synonymous with impotence. If you spend too much time amongst the bestsellers and the prize winners and the white male authors of the world, you will be misled in your assumptions of what is possible for literature at a particular point in time. Romanticism, Realism, Modernism, Post-Modernism, de blah, de blah, de blah, all these flit
Ignoring the cross reference of countries outside the Anglo stasis doesn't help, for what is this particular title my world carries on?
I deal more in suicide and military industrial complexes than domestic abuse and the atrocities of the meat market, which is a reason why A Tale for the Time Being hit me with a much fiercer pulse that powers my heartbeat to this day.
They are few and far between, but ignoring the sign posts of literary convention helps a bunch.
Like I did."As the story progresses, Jane manages to turn the show into a work of investigative journalism rather than light entertainment and discovers some aspects of the meat industry that she feels need to be made public - and if this happens in a program paid for by the meat industry even better!"Fed on a media diet of really bad news, we live in a perpetual state of repressed panic.
I can’t say that I was overly excited to read this book based on the synopsis.
I picked it based solely on the author as I had been meaning to read her for ages, I really thought the book would be dull and hokey.
Sure there’s a huge neon moral story screaming through the pages but the delivery was fresh and full of wit and I thought it was very cleverly written.
I’m sure this book will continue to make me think and I really love a book that can do that while still entertaining me.
It sure delivered more than I ordered.
i was close to love up until the epilogue's approach."Sometimes Akiko felt like a thief, sneaking through the desolate corners of her own life, stealing back moments and pieces of herself." (37)"They voted to name her Joy. When she first came to live at the large brick house at the end of the drive, she spoke no English and certain things seemed to terrify her ...
In my dream I saw her legs move in tandem, like she was running, and I realized she was dreaming of an endless green pasture at the edge of death, where she could gallop away and graze forever." (297)"Fed on a media diet of really bad news, we live in a perpetual state of repressed panic.
There was a lot of information in this book about hormonally treated beef that I did not know in this detail, and Ozeki is clever to package that information within a novel about two women both preoccupied with their fertility.
The first is a Japanese-American documentarian, Jane Takagi, hired by a Japanese TV show to promote beef products through a reality series focused on the American family, specifically called My American Wife!.
The global reach of this toxic interplay between American food and pharma = bad.) But being grossed out by the disturbing things the book depicts is not the same thing as being moved, and I wanted to be moved and to believe in these characters.
Wow. I had heard about this book while at Smith College because it was the summer reading choice for incoming first-years.
But then when I was reading the interview with Ozeki at the end, she said she realized she was writing a "thriller," so in a way, yes, it has traditional page-turning qualities, but the content is so authentic, so original, so different.I've been poking around her website and was happy to find that she is a lover of libraries, as am I: http://www.ruthozeki.com/weblog/ (May 30, 2007 entry).
They are indirectly linked by Joicho "John" Ueno, who is Akiko's abusive husband and Takagi's evil boss.
Takagi is filming a tv series called "This American Wife" which is being used to market beef to a new Japanese market.
But interestingly, their characters switch by the end of the book: Takagi falls apart after her miscarriage, Akiko finds strength to leave her husband.The anti-meat section of this book fell a bit flat.
It doesn't matter whether or not I agree with the message; this wasn't the place for a term paper.While I've mentioned one-sided characters, John Ueno was also too much evil for one weasel of a man.
and i for one am a little astonished that this is her first novel, because there are so many layers to it, and this complex ensemble of voices, self-referentiality, and documentary work is put together in such a controlled, light-hearted, humorous yet touching way, you just can't stop reading.it seems as if what i'm about to say could be said of all of ozeki's novels, but this is mainly a story of women, and since ozeki is nothing if not a fierce woman writer, she gets into the nitty gritty of femalehood -- sex, the body, mothers, children, wives, blood, guts, food, work, love, resilience, and the bond of honesty that must (imperatively must) link women everywhere -- from the get go, and stays there, right in there, in that space of womanhood that is so often undervalued and dismissed, the whole time, even when the going gets tough and malehood threatens to encroach and take over.
the japanese beef council hires her to produce a series that profiles a different american family & its beef consumption every week, highlighting the all-american robust outdoors-y health of the family, & featuring a beef-heavy recipe at the end.
she prepares the beef meals from the program for him every night, but doesn't eat them herself, & she feels confined within her housewife role & wants to leave the marriage, but doesn't know how.
meanwhile, the american TV producer starts to comprehend the horrors of the beef industry & the unfortunate side effects that accompany excessive meat-eating, & starts to feel pathologically guilty about her role in producing this beef propaganda for japanese viewers.
The voice was moving, and it seemed like a love letter to everything I adore about the American Heartland.
I also absolutely loved the excerpts from The Pillow Book and all of its simple profoundness.
I also was moved by Akiko's plight and found her story interesting.Then, out of nowhere, the book becomes a poor man's The Jungle, only with more jerks.
It's very much like how The Jungle devolves entirely into a socialist manifesto by the end, only a lot less interesting.I am very aware of factory farming and the book made an impression on me in this respect.
It's a novel, but if you can believe that it's based on actual conditions that occur in the meat industry you will feel nausea every time you walk past the meat department in the grocery store.I read this book back in about the year 2000 long before my goodreads.com days.
I was reminded of it because the following short review showed up on by PageADay Book Lover's calendar for today.In this satire on American habits and attitudes about consumption, Jane Tagaki-Little, a documentary filmmaker, takes on a new project with a Japanese television show.
A unique premise and Ozeki's biting wit give the story its zing.MY YEAR OF MEATS, by Ruth L.
Not a complaint, just an observation.If you look at any of the widely available summaries, you’ll know that the book concerns a pair of women whose lives interact via a pseudo-documentary-episodic-commercial TV program, My American Wife.
But, don’t rely on me; the author herself is the living embodiment of both cultures.The story of meat (beef) production which also threads through the book is also real.

I had to keep reminding myself that this was Ozeki's first novel, because it's so fully formed and well-written.Jane is a documentary maker who lands a job producing a television series for Japanese housewives called "The American Housewife" sponsored by the US Beef Conglomerate.
Akiko's story seems to unfold in real time while Jane is writing with some self-awareness as she is looking back on "My Year of Meats.""It changed my life.
As she delves into "meaty" stories, she uncovers disturbing truths about the meat industry, which lends a very disturbing (almost sickening) undertone to the novel.Ozeki clearly points out in the author's note that this is a work of fiction, but it feels very much like the truth, complete with bibliography and footnotes.
Ozeki explores the producer / consumer relationship in a quite compelling way...Through split narratives, we meet Jane Takagi-Little, a Japanese American documentarian, and Akiko Ueno, a Japanese housewife.
Jane is hired by Akiko's husband and his business (Beef-Ex) to direct and produce reality / cooking shows about American meats for a Japanese audience.
Jane directs and produces this program (called 'My American Wife') traveling the US and meeting ' wholesome and upstanding (and they must be attractive and white!) families that they can showcase to Japanese housewives, in order to sell their meat industry products to this new population.
One of the most sentimental scenes contains a railroad car full of cheerful black people, singing loudly and presenting the secondary heroine of the book, Akiko, with gifts of mouth-watering fried chicken.
There is a lot of stereotyping, and this is what spoiled my enjoyment of this book.
I don’t mind vegan or vegetarian agenda, I think it’s very valid and important, I don’t eat meat myself.
Poor Akiko can only find happiness running away to the beautiful land of America, where random people will feed and house her for free.And the quotes from The Pillow Book annoyed me to no end.
Full disclosure: I stopped reading "My Year of Meats" about 100 pages shy of the end.
The extent to which Ozeki felt she had to hit me over the head with her message was insulting.
Most troublesome was the almost insulting degree to which Akiko, the Japanese wife, was submissive.
I also couldn't help but to roll my eyes at how startlingly knowledgeable certain characters were about the cattle industry and how quickly they gave up the goods, leading to the inevitable conclusion that meat is VERY, VERY bad.
I adore Ruth Ozeki.
Her female characters aren’t stock characters and they’re really interesting.
Like in A Tale For the Time Being here are two main narratives, one is a TV director making an advertising series about US meat for broadcast in Japan.
The other is the wife of the first woman’s boss.
She lives in Japan and her husband is awful.
There are a lot of philosophical and moral questions raised about the way that meat is produced in America.
That might also be because I don’t eat meat in the first place...
But I can’t recommend Ozeki enough though, she so great.
Possibly one of the most important books I have ever read. I knew how Ozeki was when it came to handling themes but nothing is like her first book. It discusses not only misogyny, culture, and corporate corruption but also the terrifying reality of American Beef. Jane and Akiko's story is incredibly intriguing, with so many delightful twists and turns. From their twin issues with fertility to the confining roles for women, Ozeki weaves their tale well. Especially with regards to the parallels between the two, which were absolutely breathtaking. Ruth Ozeki's first book was absolutely masterful.
Starts gently, but builds fast and hits hard. Add in some really interesting characters, and this was a very good book.Can't say there's a happy ending when a 17 year old book addresses the same issues that need addressing today, more than ever.
It wasn't very subtle about anything.... the cutesy people were so cutesy, the good people were so good, the bad people were so bad, the hunky macho guy was so hunky and macho. And rich! Why do American novelists make so many characters so wealthy?
I finished this book days ago but have been unable to transform my thoughts into an articulate review. So I thought I would just list all the things that I loved about My Year of Meats, because honestly, theres nothing I didnt like. 1. The main themes in this book are the problems of meat production. Thats a matter Ive researched a lot myself, but theres still some information that I had no idea about, especially about hormones fed to the cattle. Then again I wouldnt consider this a book that ex
So I thought I would just list all the things that I loved about My Year of Meats, because honestly, there´s nothing I didn´t like.
Then again I wouldn´t consider this a book that extensively explains why you shouldn´t eat meat, as it didn´t take some very important environmental aspects into account.
I also didn´t think that this book is preachy, or trying to force people from eating meat, so you don´t have to worry about that in case you love your steaks.2.
Like A Tale for the Time Being, My Year of Meats follows two very different female persons whose lives are connected in a heart warming way.
It was a beautiful place, worlds away from the stinking feedlots so vividly depicted in Ruth Ozeki's novel.
My mother read My Year Of Meat while she lived and worked on this property, and then she passed it on to me, saying that she found it "interesting." Soon after that, my parents sold up and retired.Didactic and full of unlikely coincidences though My Year Of Meat is, you've got to admire Ozeki for deciding to treat the beef industry in novel form.
Has the beef industry been cleaned up since the publication of Ozeki's novel?

I should say, I am not recommending this book to anyone I know. I found it interesting and Ozeki is great, but it’s really pretty heavy-handed on the problems of the meat industry.
** Books 213 - 2017 **This books to accomplish Tsundoku Books Challenge 2017 and Challenge New Author 20173,6 of 5 stars! one of books that makes me hesitate to eating red meat now after knowing some hormon medicine that being injected to cows especially. I think i should reduce red meat and back again as Pesco-vegetarian =__=a Thanks a lot Periplus Store for the 86% discount from IDR 201.000 into IDR 28.000!
so sharp! so tangy. one of the best pieces of satirical fiction that i have read. ozeki does an incredible job of rippling the waters of the façade of media to show the humans behind all that we do. to show what "truth" really means to those who are in charge of creating our facts.
If I could, I would make this compulsory reading for everyone. Beautiful and awful, tragic and splendid... I'm so sad it's over.
An extremely informative and thoroughly enjoyable story. Be forewarned, you won't want to eat meat again after reading this book.
This is not like that book but it is still a remarkable literary work.
It’s about Jane who’s making a TV show for Japan about Wholesome American wife’s cooking meat, but along the way Jane starts to feel uncomfortable about the meat industry.
It’s also about Akiko in Japan, who watches the show and identifies with some of the more radical episodes and angers her husband.
It’s also about loss and starting over.
It can certainly bring up the topic of what you buy at the store and how often.
I certainly appreciated the quirkiness of this book.
