https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272895.The_Black_Stallion
Although I certainly enjoyed Walter Farley's classic tale of a boy and his horse when I read The Black Stallion as a young teenager, I most definitely never liked it quite as much as Marguerite Henry's Misty of Chincoteague series (and other horse series that were part of my childhood); furthermore, I never did warm up to any of the sequels.
A very nice children's story.
No idea when I first read this but I was very young.
This is the German edition and I always loved the covers (just looked into the English ones and am not convinced so I probably won't re-buy them).
I was never the girly type of girl that was into horses, but the fierceness of the Black Stallion, the majestic way it was portrayed in the movie (as well as the Arabian kept in the stables where I had my lessons), and the adventures sucked me in.
Pretty adorable. Basically a romance novel except the alpha-hero is a horse, an actual horse.
Alex Ramsey first meets the black stallion when they're both booked on a ship called the Drake.
When the ship is destroyed during a storm, the Black stallion and Alex are the only survivors.
When Alex is rescued from the island, he insist on the Black being saved too.
What fate awaits for a boy and a wild black stallion?I can remember reading this book around ten or eleven years old.
I loved it so much I went on to read all the horse books by Walter Farley, and some by other authors as well.
Things just worked out for the best & that made for a great story.This was written in 1941, so it is also nostalgic in many ways.
I've always called it a scream, but things like riding without all the safety gear, getting bucked off, & the exertion of staying on a fast moving horse were very well done.
Mom kept her horse in Centerport (further east) in the 1950s & we used to ride double from our farm in Lake Grove (even further east, north of Lake Ronkonkoma, about midway along Long Island) across fields to the post office in the early 1960s.
I've been an avid horse fanatic since before I can remember.
Unfortunately, when you're a kid growing up in the city, there's nothing a horse fanatic can do about it until they grow up and can afford (or work for) lessons of their own.
When I was a teenager, my parents movied to Long Island, and I finally had the opportunity to work summers at a barn in exhange for riding lessons.
Today I teach riding to little kids, and spend as much time in a barn as a can.
A definite gift for the horse crazed kid.
I don't like horses, or horse books, but I really enjoyed this one.
And yet this is the book which ignited my passion for reading.
This is the book which started my life-long habit of identifying with male characters, because I wanted to be Alec Ramsey.
I am also truly lucky to have had an indulgent father who purchased my first pony, Nippy, at an auction sale for $50.
Nippy & I came to have a very close relationship, which I no doubt modelled on Alex & the Black.
Fortunately for me, Nippy was much more like old Napoleon in this tale than like the wild black stallion.
Still, like a first love, I will always have fond memories of The Black Stallion.
Even without the movie and its beautiful images of horse and boy on the desert island, this book stands out in ways that other teen mets horse books don't.
The possible exception to this My Friend Flicka (Black Beauty is about a horse, not a boy and his horse).
Perhaps this is because both books have the horse be a horse.
Yes, perhaps the book is part wish fulfillment, but it is also a non-Gary Stu wish fullment.There is such passion and love for horses in this series, but in a non-romantized way.
I didn’t remember this book as being a race horse story.
It’s funny how the mind can omit the things from memory that we don’t like or aren’t interested in.
Although if they would have made Alec and the Black’s time on the island the center focus by lengthening their stay and adding more drama, well that would have been a book I would have loved too.I also don’t have a memory for what came first in my world of reading, The Black Stallion or Black Beauty.
This book is clearly a product of its time, and not just because of the corny slang.
No, sir, you had to be big and strong..." The two female characters are completely boring.
The Irish- and Italian-American characters are completely stereotyped.
Egyptians are referred to as "natives" or as "the dark-skinned man"--I deduce that this person merited description as a "man" because his clothes are westernized.
The "dark-skinned man" is portrayed as cowardly, panicing in a crisis, and unconcerned about causing others' deaths.
Nice.There are so many unbelievable coincidences that drive the plot, that I just won't get into them all.
I think I would have really loved this if I had read it as a kid. It was a cute story with little to no conflict, and I really enjoyed it. My biggest complaint is actually the excessive use of exclamation points. It seemed unnecessary. Other than that, it was a fun, quick, read, though definitely better suited to a younger audience.
The Black Stallion begins with a boy traveling home from India.
The boy, whose name is Alec, gradually befriends this wild stallion.
The ship is wrecked during a terrible storm and Alec ties himself to the horse so as to be dragged through the ocean and not tossed away.
They make it to an island where the boy and the horse have to find food and shelter.
The horse, also called Black, does not easily trust Alec.
Black is an amazingly, wild and free stallion.
It would broaden the student's knowledge of far away places.
I feel a general nostalgia for all the books I read in my horse-crazy childhood, and I desperately wanted a Black of my very own!
They all seem to have Alec's and the Black's best interests at heart, no angles.
Even the quarantine inspector lets them go with only a cursory inspection, stating that Alec had already been through enough, they wouldn't want to add to his trouble.
And that's after the Black kicked the second inspector!
There's one exception to this: the man who loads the Black on the ship (by whipping him) and later tries to rip off Alec's life jacket.
I read this when I was about ten on a horse-book spree. :P
I have liked men in cowboy boots and hats ever since, and as I grew older I decided that they were much better than their horses.We had a Shetland pony in Porterville when we lived out in the country.
My brother Bill used to tell me that he was going to make Bucky bite me if I got too close to him, so I knew better than to even come within one foot of that pony.I remember two incidents while living there.
Well, Lumpy liked me, but I can’t say for two of the other horses.Sugar, a thoroughbred, stepped on my foot once and would not get off.
Now this is one horse book that I loved! I watched the movie a long time ago and really really enjoyed it, so I was glad to finally read the book. The action is so intense sometimes that I really had to hold my breath. I loved the descriptions of the horse; I could almost feel his silky mane and glossy coat, and hear his thundering hoofbeats and piercing cry. I look forward to reading more of the books in this series!
It was almost like that black stallion who was written about on each page was galloping about my presence, neighing and whinnying until the cows came home.
Really, if you want my honest, straight out opinion, this book should be read by everyone who has a heart.
I was an empty shell of a person before reading this book.
But you know what, I read this book, and the horse who has warmed my heart so much lead me out of that shell, and brought me back to who I once was, which is a beautiful person.
My paternal grandmother gifted this to me over thirty years ago and I, shamefacedly, never read it. "A horse book? This is for girls," I remember thinking, still so carefully trying to puff up my masculinity, lest anyone find out I was gay. clearly horse books are not just for girls. My grandmother was a very perceptive, prescient lady, so, as an adult, I find myself wondering: what's here that she thought I needed all those years ago? I aim to find out.Resilience...self-reliance...the wild exterior does not reflect the horse/ person's true character...loyalty...
*Shakes head and smiles* There's nothing quite like it in all this world: the beauty of an animal who, in all its magnificence and power, became friends with a human, and together, who changed everything.It's what I've been dreaming of all my life, and even now-- way past middle school age when I first read this story-- I come to life reading this book again.
It's every bit as inspiring and exciting as I first thought it was, and I would be horrible if I didn't recommend anyone who has a love for animals in general or horses especially to check out this book.It's fantastic.
As most everyone knows, The Black Stallion is a story about a singular bond between a boy and a wild horse who is almost an embodiment of nature's primal forces.This is the second time I've read it and I enjoyed both times, but this last reading (now that I am an adult) left me longing for something a bit more realistic and deep.
So, as you might expect, the writing seems to become better in the last half as he most likely grew older and more adept in his style.For parents who monitor moral themes in their children's books, Black Stallion contains almost no objectionable material.
Do not let anyone look down on you because you are young.
Just don't let it happen.
Sometimes it's hard to prevent when others tell you that you can't do something.
Especially if the people telling you this are older or in a position of authority.
They might tell you that you are too small.
They might tell you that you are not old enough.
They might even tell you that you don't have the talent it takes to accomplish what you are trying to do.That is exactly what everyone told Alec Ramsey in The Black Stallion.
And yet, Alec did more than anyone could have expected.
This is a great read aloud to kids book. Because it's a good story, and also because it's easy to skim ahead over some of the descriptive paragraphs and get to the good stuff. I actually teared up a little reading the final race scene to Lucy. She couldn't figure out what was wrong with me.
Alec and his stallion are two characters I loved when I was a little kid; their adventures were vividly written and never got old no matter how many times I re-read them. This is an excellent classic and definitely a great book for all ages.
This whole book is made up of two basic things--super-cool horse, and a boy and his horse.
Particularly since the book is aimed at children.The Black Stallion kicked off a twenty-book series, which also included a sub-series about another super-cool horse, The Island Stallion.
Also, it's the most unique of all twenty books.Some pretty unlikely things happen, I'll admit.
Because this is wish-fulfillment, people, and we all wanted to grow up owning a special, awesomer-than-everyone-else's horse (well, the horse-lovers amongst us, anyway, but I assume no one else would've read this), that loved us and only us.
I'm not sure quite what was so appealing about it, but those books landed in the "classics" section of my childhood library: Jim Kjelgaard books, My Side of the Mountain, the Black Stallion, Julie of the Wolves...
Frankenweiler is a "survival" book of sorts.So of course, kid on a desert island fending for himself is an instant win, but then you throw in the angry "untameable" stallion and of course, it's a dream come true...
Farfetched in a beautiful, daydreamy childlike way, the Black Stallion is a modern fairytale for horse crazy kids.The movie is equally as gorgeous as the book.
I first read it a horse-loving 8 year old, re-read it until my Scholastic copy became dog-eared and visited with The Black & Alec again as a 40 something child at heart.
I believe this is the premise that makes The Black Stallion a classic, a book remembered fondly from childhood days, pieces of the story remaining with you over the years, then upon re-visiting as an adult, the wonder of this fantastic tale comes flooding back.
The story begins with young Alec Ramsay and the wild black stallion as the only survivors of a shipwreck.
After being rescued, Alec strives to help this horse being a great racer, having him going against the two fastest horses, Sun raider and Cyclone.
As the race begins, anger begins in the heart of Sun Raider the horse of a man named Mr. Volence.
At the end of the race, Alec's whole family was there to watch him.
If I was Alec I would never be able to ride such a fast horse.
He was the fastest horse I would have ever seen.
I felt that if I was at the actual race.
Like many horse books (and the black stallion wasn't the first, National Velvet was published before) a child, in this case Alec, acquires an amazing horse by equally amazing circumstances.
I think I would have enjoyed this book more had I read it when I was younger because the story moves on at a quick pace with mini climaxes and interesting little story arches over a few chapters.
I would have enjoyed a bit more of a falling action at the end of this book.
In fact the falling action only takes up 2 pages.
