https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216512.August_1914
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب نوعی رمانِ تاریخی به شمار می آید و نویسندهٔ آن <الکساندر سولژ نیتسین> رویدادهایِ جنگِ جهانی اول در نبردِ تاننبرگ، در ماهِ اوت از سالِ 1914 را بررسی میکند----------------------------------------------در ماهِ اوتِ سالِ 1914 ارتشِ بزرگِ تزار، از مرزهایِ پروس (آلمان) گذر کرد و واردِ آلمانِ شرقی شد.. ولی زمانی که سربازانِ شوروی واردِ شهر شدند، با کمالِ تعجب مشاهده کردند که شهر ساکتِ و خالی از سکنه میباشد. ولی در حقیقت این دامی بود که آلمانیها برایِ آنها برپا کرده بودند
ولی آنهایی که اندک روحیه ای در خویش دارند، کاری به جنگ نداشته و مشغولِ جمع آوری غنیمتِ جنگی و غارت میباشند و در فکرِ نجاتِ جانشان میباشند‎این شکستِ بزرگ، به نوعی سببِ پایه گذاری هایِ نخستینِ انقلابِ اکتبر در شوروی میباشد‎نویسنده هرزگاهی از میدانِ جنگ و داستانهای مربوط به آن خارج میشود و نوشته هایش را به سویِ حال و هوایِ روشنفکران، لیبرال ها و سوسیالیستها میبرد و آن را ترسیم میکند و به نوعی نشان میدهد که چگونه این رویدادها در آیندهٔ سرزمینِ شوروی تأثیر خود را گذاشته و شوروی مذهبی که در خرافات و موهوماتِ دینی غرق شده است و مردمانش در ناآگاهی فرو رفته اند، جایش را به روسیهٔ صنعتی و پیروِ دانش میدهد‎موردی که بیش از همه چیز خواندنِ این کتاب را ممکن است برایتان دشوار کند، نام ها و عناوینِ زیادی میباشد که در جای جایِ کتاب به چشم میخورد..
Bought secondhand and devoured in a single overnight reading. Back in the day when I could do an overnight read - my rock and roll years.Re-read and enjoyed a couple of times since.An excellent read.
Solzhenitsyn's book was published in the West one year after he won the prize - with sections about Lenin omitted.
As he encounters the truth about the German war-machine his military ideals rapidly tarnish and he must decide whether to volunteer his men for certain death or retreat.
At the outbreak of the First World War, the Russian advance met with catastrophic results.
Three years later the tsarist regime fell as Lenin led the October Revolution.Your average Russian 'Boris' is still being fed daily doses of misinformation, and hazard to guess that should a war footing be declared, they would fare no better next time around.
Although I did read in the news that there is now a project to translate the whole of the Red Wheel cycle into English, I wonder what the inspiration is or who might be funding it.The centre of the novel, told from many points of view with a mixture of historical and fictional characters, the Russian defeat at Tannenberg at the beginning of the First World War. It is the first volume of an uncompleted cycle of books called The Red Wheel that was meant to take in WW1 and the civil war in Russia.There's not much to recommend about this book apart from the relative novelty of the subject matter to an English speaking audience.
Not as 'great' as Cancer Ward or In The First Circle, but definitely a text of great value if not for its historical referencing alone.As others have noted, if you're not a big buff for World War I history, this may not be for you, as this was not written solely for a pretty little story for the reader to be able to fully appreciate without any background knowledge or willingness to look things up while reading the book.If you're going to check this out, please check out some of the other works Solzhenitsyn has on offer, as his writing style is unique and some may not be so familiar with his ability of wittily critiquing some of the most serious topics, or the almost consistent debating of aforementioned topics throughout a nearly 900 page novel.
So the parts about the fictional characters are alternated by the parts about real historic figures and events.
Initially the fictional parts were relatively lively with interesting set of characters and several story lines.
So i stopped caring about the fictional parts.The historical chronicle is meticulously detailed and relatively slow moving.
His method is to pick a historical event or a figure and drill so dip that it becomes overwhelming after a while.
But if Stolypin's life seems to be based on numerous sources, Bogrov's life and his motivation seems to be presented in more fictional way - it is unclear how Solzhenitsyn has compiled it.
This is probably my favorite book of all time. Alexander Solzhenitsyn was brilliant. If you don't like WWI history, this book is not for you, but it was excellent. It was fiction, but centred around the campaign in Tannenburg, Prussia. There wasn't much of a plot other than the campaign, though the characters made up for it, and is the first in a series of four, the last of which has not been translated into English as yet. It was 622 pages, but well worth reading.
August 1914 is a monumental work, part history, part historical fiction, part a detailed account of the battle of Tannenberg (26 August - 30 August 1914) with fictional elements interwoven, including mini-biographies and accounts of key elements and episodes of Russian history in the years leading up to World War I.
A war like this one must not be fumbled, must not be wasted.Such a war is a gift from history!Chapter 25 has a hilarious section, "Russian eccentricities as seen by the Germans".A couple of the chapters towards the end get immensely long … Chapter 65 (Pyotr Arkadievich Stolypin), over 70 pages; and Chapter 74, which mixes some of the main fictional characters into history, 100 pages.
If you have no knowledge of the Battle of Tannenberg nor late 19th / early 20th century russian history and politics, you might as well do some reading first or else you won't enjoy the first 300 pages nor the rest of the book for that matter.
There's a long chapter in which he treats us to a history lesson about the Duma which reads like a really dry (but fun) history book, I can see why some people might dislike it (it was me and by the end of it I was getting tired).
I correctly anticipated how appropriate it would feel to read this in August 2014 - exactly 100 years after the events in this novel. I did not anticipate how eager I would be to return each time to this amazing novel, discovering well drawn characters, a scathing indictment of Russian military culture at the beginning of the Great War, and a humbling and breathtaking faith. Definitely one to re-read.
question whether I read this back in the day when I was reading Solzhenitsyn.
Remnick writes a beautiful chapter on A.S., his life, his exile, Western Europe and the U.S. intelligentsia's dismissive treatment of him, and his return to Russia.
The reader should not be scared off from this work merely because he/she does not consider themselves particularly knowledgeable about Russia.
(Looking back, Dos Pasos didn't suffer from the distraction.) The reader with any interest in Russia, world history, military history, or just plain good literature should seriously consider reading this work.
3.5 StarsSet in the years leading up to The Revolution, this monumental book is Solzhenitsyn’s interpretation of a turbulent period in his country’s history, beginning with the outbreak of World War I.
Another segment is devoted to Tsar Nicholas II, Russia’s last monarch.Blending fact and fiction, August 1914 is a history novel that sees the author deviate from his familiar theme of Communist oppression, staged in gulag and cancer ward.
Whilst August 1914 appealed to this reader, a Solzhenitsyn devotee, he would argue that the author’s consummate ability to develop character is eroded somewhat by the relentless detail and historical discourse.
From BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:A new adaptation for radio of Nobel Prize-winner Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's epic story of the first battle of the Eastern Front in 1914 - which was a disaster for Russia.
Solzhenitsyn's book was published in the West one year after he won the prize - with sections about Lenin omitted.
This new production is narrated by Fiona Shaw.In August 1914, Colonel Vorotyntsev advances into East Prussia in search of the elusive front line.
At the outbreak of the First World War, the Russian advance met with catastrophic results.
Ironically,I am writing this review on the 11th November.
After Ivan Denisovich, the size of this book came as a surprise and the writing expands to fill the space between the covers, without lapse or hiatus.
We remember our own war dead, but seem to have forgotten that the Russians lost twice as many men as did the UK.
The appalling carnage at the beginning of the war is well described where men without uniforms or weapons were thrown at a the opposition.
In that fact alone lies much of the origin of the Russian revolution.
This is a must read book for anyone who is interested in almost any aspect of European literature and/or Russian history and literature. Solzhenitsyn has a way of writing that immediately involves the reader in the scene, the characters, the situation he creates. He develops characters that stay with one, and makes one want to read more and more about their lives. After this, I read Cancer Ward and First Circle and he creates worlds within worlds in these books as well.
the rest of the series to be rolled out in English....https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...
To be frank, it's just not good.]The whole design of The Red Wheel was that he would write extended novels on snapshot months from the First World War. August (which goes into September, given the use of the Russian Orthodox Julian Calendar) of 1914 was to be the first snapshot, which A.S. called a 'knot.' But in the revised version he suddenly stops to throw in a bundle of "other knots" from the past.
The majority of the text is the original snuck-out-of-the-USSR novel about the beginning of the war and the loss of the Second Army (under General Samsonov) in the Battle of Tannenberg.
It vividly illustrates von Clausewitz's notions of "fog of war"; Solzhenitsyn does an incredible job showing the confusion that reigns for an army commander even before contact is made with the enemy, as poor Samsanov does not even know where his own corps are, while higher command keeps sending contradictory orders that only reach the general days latter.
As a literary work, it could have used some revisions (I skimmed chapters 61 and 62 out of a 64 chapter book), but in the main it was an enjoyable read.
Voroyntsev in particular keeps the story moving, the only staff officer from General Headquarters who "gets it" and spends time at the front.
The First World War was so wasteful of human life on all sides. This shows the Russian high command to be as inept as the British High Command and the victims are the poor proletariat fighting in the trenches...it is not surprising the Russians revolted shortly after.
Finally, the regimental commander called for the senior officers, and once again with much creaking, shouting, confusion, and lashing of the horses in the gun teams, the entire divisional column turned around and marched back to where it had come from."I stopped reading here to try to figure out why the officers would have the men leave the town and then turn around and go back, but unable to solve the mystery I went back to the book and kept reading hoping it would soon be cleared up, it wasn't:"The peasants in uniform grew sullen and began muttering that their senior officers were all Germans and were purposely driving the troops to exhaustion and despair before they had even started fighting.....They did not stop at twilight but obediently retraced their steps, and the stars were out when they returned to the village of Omulefoffen and lit their field kitchens in the same places as the day before."Solzhenitsyn can tell you better than I can how this first battle went:"Kabanov had been given no artillery support.
In this novel, Soviet Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitzyn takes on the theme of the Russian Army in the opening months of the First World War. This novel was exceptionally well written, and it is surprising to me that more enthusiasts of the First World War are not talking about it.
Perhaps it's because the novel was written in the late 1960s, long after the heyday of Great War literature in the 1930s.
I would highly recommend this for fans of WWI military novels, Russian literature in general and Solzhenitsyn in specific.
This is the first in Solzhenitsyn's epic novels about Russia in the First World War, November 1916 is the second. Unless you can read Russian or French, the last two novels haven't been translated into English. In November, the University of Notre Dames is publishing March 1917, the third volume. It will be translated by Marian Schwartz. Hopefully the fourth volume is in the works.
Realizing this, the Russians had mobilized far quicker than expected and began to march on Berlin knowing that the more efficient German army would be weaker at this point.
So in the context of this particular account, if the Russians had won this, they would have reached Berlin in time to force a German surrender on all fronts.
It's also disturbing to think that with all the clever and efficient strategizing done by the German Headquarters, the outcome of the battle was decisively won by a German general of Huguenot origins, who disobeyed orders with Gallic flare and effectively swept behind the Russian forces, preventing them from regrouping and forcing a surrender.
One of the most marvellously complex novels I've ever read.
Stolypin's murder seems reasonable viewed from his murderer's standpoint and yet is clearly a significant loss for Russia making military, social and revolutionary disaster much more likely.
Oh and he is very religious so falls into the trap of thinking it is all God's will and this stymies any vestiges of a will to action which he may otherwise have been able to summon.All in all, marvellous stuff but a book you do need prior knowledge to tackle and the confidence to tackle a substantial tome.
Solzhenitsyn provides an account of the events surrounding the failed Russian army intiatives of mid-August in 1914.
His focus is not only on the First Army (led by the hapless and nervous General Samsonov), but also the attempts of the brave Colonel Vorotyntsev to salvage a victory for Russia.
With the benefit of hindsight, Solzhenitsyn has constructed Russia in a way that makes you feel like revolution was inevitable and that the monarchical system was imploding inwards from its own self-indulgence and purposeful ignorance.
Overall, a great read that gives you a slice-like perspective of one of the many events which contributed to modern Russian history.
But I always like a big, fat, thick novel ...
even better if it is a Russian novel.
Solzhenitsyn does a wonderful job describing then Battle of Tannenburg (confused valor on the part of the Russians; effective leadership and uses of railroads by the Germans).
I thought he went too quickly through the story of Nikolai ...
Massie devoted a tome to that sad story.
I wonder if he is a real historic figure.I particularly liked Solzhentsyn trick of stopping the historic fiction and in a different font presents a historically correct description of the events that he coverede in fiction.
This was my third Solzienitsyn book and my last.
The book covered the first two weeks of WW1.
Out of the entire book, there is only one line I will remember, It was a quote by Tolstoy.
HOW CAN YOU ENJOY LLINING UP WORDS IN RANKS LIKE SOLDIERS ACCORDING TO THEIR SOUNDS?
The job of words is to express thoughts, and you don"t find much thought in poetry.
There's a lot of poetry written nowadays, but there's not a sscrap of good in any of it.
I HAVE ALWAYS THOUGHT THE SAME BUT NEVER HAD THE COURAGE TO STATE MY THOUGHTS.
Quite frankly, I simply could not finish this book. Anyone who has read any WW 1 history knows the tragedy of Samsonv and his army encircled by German forces and effectively wiped out. I have the sense that Solzhenitsyn couldn't decide if he was writing a history or a human story so he wrote something in between and I found it neither interesting or touching. After reading 35% of the book I simply gave up.
Read this many, many years ago. Wish I remembered it better.
