https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57458.Fools_Crow
Introduction--Fools CrowMap
it helps to see what is lost when cultures evolve and our relationships to one another are blurred.” And James Welch very movingly does let us see the losses that come with the destruction of a way of life that allows a people to live in a more profound relationship with Nature than we seem unable to emulate.The novel deals with profound issues and the central character, Fools Crow, is very vividly realised.
But the day will come when our people will decide that they would rather consort with the Napikwans than live in the ways our long-ago fathers thought appropriate.
This book tells the story of Fools Crow, a young Blackfoot warrior, and his village in the late 1800s as US soldiers are encroaching on their territory.
This book is not the usual Requiem for the Noble Savage that you might have read before.
Most of the book deals with the daily trials and dramas of the Blackfeet-- political intrigues, siblings' jealousy, broken friendships, young love and coming-of-age.
And while it is sad to think about all that was destroyed over several centuries of genocide, the fact that the book was written by a modern Blackfeet tribemember, James Welch, shows that not all was lost.
It’s no secret that I have been learning some unpleasant lessons lately, so I am thankful for this dark but heartening book with a message that I’ve so needed to hear.
As a side note, it’s no wonder to me that the books that have the most relevant message for me at any particular time in my life are the books that captivate my attention where others fail.
There are no bad books; timing is the key.Anyhow, the story of Fools Crow reminds me that our lives are, by nature, incredibly messy and uncertain.
The "native-indian" style of writing (in which days are counted in terms of sleeps, months in terms of moons, seasons in terms of the expected arrival of Cold Maker, and so on) plunges the reader immediately inside the Lone Eaters camps, and there are so many little details that provide a very vivid picture of what life was like for the Indian Blackfoot Tribes at the end of the 19th century, how they felt, what made their society click and turn.
But in terms of narrative, to me it felt perhaps too preoccupied with using the characters to provide the information, and in this way they come around somewhat flat.
As a Montanan, I can tell you that I know Native Americans who may speak English, but Welch has captured much of the style and cadence of their speach in this novel.
In addition, he manages to tell the story in the style of a legend which incorporates the grandeur and vastness of our state.
He is a native Montanan and he understands that the land has written us, as authors, not the other way around.
The landscape of Montana is so omnipresent that it became a parent-figure that formed and nurtured me, Welch knows this too and it comes through in this novel.
James Welch was a gifted American writer and one of the best to realistically depict the culture of the modern-day Plains Indians. After reading one of James Welch's earlier books, I put off reading any other books for years. They are hard to read in that they are excellently written but give such a sense of despair. Fool's Crow is not quite the same as the others - more of a look back at the Blackfeet before the white man entered the scene ... but towards the end the foreboding and sense of loss are there as well.
It's hard to say all that I liked about this novel.
Not only did it show you the lives of the Blackfeet, it sucked you in and made you feel like you were there.
I'm not sure if that's a compliment or not...The book is mostly about Fools Crow and his tribe.
There are no words to describe it.There were only two things I didn't like about this book.
I think everyone should read this book.
Now I'm just waiting for a novel like this to be about my Creek people.
I haven't found one that really makes me speechless like this novel did.

This is a story about the social and cultural world of the Blackfeet Indians, and the threat to their existence posed by the encroachment of white civilization, as experienced by a young brave whose name, White Man's Dog, later gets changed to Fools Crow.
Set in 1870, the story ends with the actual historical incident of the Marias massacre of a band of friendly Blackfeet, already experiencing an epidemic of smallpox, by the U.S. Army.
Thankfully, the story ends with a chord of hope.
This impacts the open range of the great herds of roaming 'blackhorns,' that fine animal so important to the tribes because, not only for its meat, but for it hide and bones, every part of the animal is used for sustenance, tools, clothing, and bedding.The tribes are divided, some believing the promises the white men have made, and trusting that the treaties will yet be kept, and others angry at the takeover of open land and the lies that are the true word of the white man.
For all the tragedy in Fool's Crow, there is also beauty - beauty in the way the Pikuni people perform their kinship and loyalty, beauty in the rituals (medicine, marriage, sacred), and beauty in their names.
Through a series of events, the major characters of the book are introduced to White Man's Dog, and in a sort of coming-of-age story, we follow the progress not only of White Man's Dog, but also the Pikuni tribe as they struggle against the changes being brought by the United States Government.Fools Crow provides eye-opening examples of the importance of dreams to the Pikuni culture, the horrors of assimilation of one culture into another, and the injustice of the actions against the Native Americans during the building of the United States as we know it.Reading this book should be done slowly and thoughtfully, as the story itself (while interesting) holds so many meanings revealed through careful inspection of the dreams and connections drawn from them to the narrative.
For that matter, Welch does a very poor job of orienting the reader to the world he's writing in, frequently refusing to use the plain English word for something when an awkward and crude pidgin will do instead, despite the fact that the book is written in English.
And yet, the novel wanders, with interminable passages describing minutia that have little bearing on the story (and do nothing to orient the reader to the world) bogging down the parts where it really soars.I know many consider this a classic as-is, but to me it feels like it desperately needs a revision and trimming to bring out its full potential.
I'll be writing more about this tonight in preparation for tomorrow's test over the book, but off the top of my head, the first words to come to mind about it are "illuminating" and "crushing." The novel follows the trajectory of Fools Crow, a young Pikuni warrior whose band belongs to the greater Blackfoot Confederacy in the state of Montana shortly after the American Civil War. The narration mainly stays within the world of the Pikunis and as a result, the reader gets a sense of their way of life.This book captures the uncertainty, anxiety and turmoil that white settlers introduced into the lives of the Blackfeet with their concept of Manifest Destiny and with increased white settlement on Blackfoot lands.
It would be impossible to read this novel and not seriously question the legitimacy of the United States of America as a nation.
Emotionally, I struggled with this book. There's a difference between violent, penetrating details and violent detail about penetration, and the author seems to have missed that. There's lots of rape in this book, and the violent details are not necessary to the main points being made in the book. Fool's Crow is more about the oppression and marginalization of the Blackfoot tribe than about the oppression of women, as attested to by the inconsistent narrations and memories of Red Paint.
Writing in voice of Native Americans seemed a bit gimmicky at first, but once I adjusted to it, thought it worked quite well. In fact, instead of stereotyping them, the voice made them more 3-dimensional. A whiff of "Dances with Wolves" hovers at edges in places, but without the blatant sentimentality of the movie -- primarly because instead of Kevin Costner, we get fully realized Native Americans telling their own story for a change. Not a great read, but a solidly good one: entertaining, suspenseful, informative. Nothing wrong with that.
I have taught this book many times, and every time I again, I am impressed not only with the character development and narrative, but also the view it gives into native American culture, especially little known historical events like the Marias Massacre.
Just as good now as it was the first time I read it. A gorgeous, heartbreaking, and moving book that should be read again and again and loved every time.
The spoiler is already out as to the eventual fate of the Blackfeet and all the other American Indian tribes, which makes it so bittersweet to read this story about White Man's Dog and his family and tribe.
😕But there's so much beauty here, even though the lives of these people were hard and fraught with all sorts of dangers.
These were more than individuals; they were a people, living a way of life that could have gone on for millennia.
Now I want to read more about the lives of the people who were here when Europe arrived.
The story focuses on Fools Crow (initially known as White Man's Dog) and his tribal community, but although I am told what Fools Crow thinks and feels, I rarely feel what it is like to be in his position and consequently have trouble empathizing with his individual situation.
Fools Crow has a vision of the future in which his people are much diminished, impoverished, living in the midst of white people, with no buffalo and none of their current land.
I'd say this is a very powerful book about several years in a young Native American man's life in Montana as his people's culture and very lives are being destroyed by the incoming whites.
Overall, the book lets you live in the head of a young, thoughtful man while it tells the sobering truth of native life followed by its ultimate devastation.It did take me a while get into it because it was sometimes hard to follow the Native American naming - their names for the people groups, the animals (e.g., blackhorns, wags-its-tails sticky mouths), the stars, and the names of their spirit leaders.
I am deeply impressed by how much this fictional story taught me about the the historic struggle of the Pikunis and other Montana area tribes, as well as their cosmology and worldview through the eyes of the protagonist, Fools Crow of the Lone Eaters Pikuni band.
The naming systems and the cadence of Welch's language take a while to get accustomed to, and he demands a lot of the reader, but it is this work that transported me into the Lone Eaters' world.I almost never want to pick up a book and read it over again, but this one I would because I don't want the world that Welch revives to "end," though we know it must.
At first, I thought it was merely a revivification of Plains Indian life--and this was enough; I was ready to dwell in the lives of the characters.
(I don't want to give away too much to preserve its fascinating turns)."In Fools Crow, Welch has accomplished the most profound act of recovery in American literature," is the blurb by Louis Owens on the back cover that echoed through my mind as I read the last half of the novel.
Its narrative tone and language is bound up with the characters' lives: "Sun Chief had cleared the hills to the east, lighting the frosty yellow grasses on the side of Woman Don't Walk." The landscape comes to life with its first names.
What made it most powerful is that it was told from within a completely different worldview than my own.
Knowing you can't / shouldn't compare cultures, especially by what you read in a book...
Human characters interact with animals in a way that we "Westerners" don't believe in.
What we might call a spirit vision, in this book is simple reality to the human involved.
Again, places you in a different worldview through language.
And it doesn't hurt that it was a strong, powerful, and well-drawn narrative, in addition to characters who stuck with me.
This leisurely-paced and character-driven novel tells the story of a young Blackfeet man coming of age at the time when his tribe’s way of life is slipping away from them as white settlers steadily encroach on their Montana homelands.
Though Welch does not take the timeline as far as the Little Big Horn battle, it looms on the horizon.Although to overall sweep of the novel is tinged with the foreshadowing of the end of the great tribal plains society, the individual scenes are often sweet, quiet, domestic ones.
Violence is also there, as matter-of-fact as the rising and setting of the sun.
Set in 1870, this saga tells the story of the Blackfeet Indians ("Lone Eaters" in this book) as they face the encroachment of the white men ("Napikwans") on their ancestral lands.
The main character is Fools Crow, whose name at the start of the book is White Man's Dog. As with other characters in the book, his name is changed as the story progresses to reflect his response to challenges.
In the end, Fools Crow realizes that the Napikwans have far more fire power and manpower than the Lone Eaters and other tribes, and that continued resistance is fruitless.
I last read this book in high school 20 years ago, and I didn't remember much other than a general feeling of confusion at the different cultural values of Blackfeet Native Americans.
Some of the story was suspenseful and full of action, and some parts stepped back into narrative form to explain and describe characters' thoughts and feelings, but each page gave glimpses into the history, culture, and struggles of the time.
It definitely left me wondering what could have been done differently to avoid the violence and hatred that has affected generations.
Fools Crow is written by a Native American, James Welch.
The historical novel tells the story of White Man's Dog (later renamed Fools Crow) who is a young Pikuni warrior in the Blackfeet Tribe of northern Montana in the 19th century.
He joins his fellow war warriors in fighting tribes who steal from their village.
His father translates for their tribe during a treaty signing with white soldiers sent from Washington, D.C.--a treaty which, of course, is broken by the whites' government and followed by a genocide.
The book is a little heavy on the spirituality of Native American beliefs, but is educational and fascinating...recommended reading!
Wonderfully written. Mr. Welch writes his story of another (and basically vanished) culture with the complex simplicity that only comes with absolute familiarity. One begins to read this novel and is immediately immersed in the culture of the Piegan in the pivotal late nineteenth century when the culture of the Plains nations and that of the encroaching whites were bringing conflict to a head. It is a sympathetic and very human story of a people trying to survive a situation that threatens their very existence. Well worth your time, especially if you are interested in this area of American history.

