https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92625.The_Ones_Who_Walk_Away_from_Omelas
Is the happiness of thousands worth the suffering of a single innocent person? Of one innocent child? Think about that. And hold your loud and resounding and outraged  NO!  for a minute.A background - this is what the brilliant Ursula K. Le Guin brings up in her very short 1973 story The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas. It just a few pages she asks us to conceive of a utopia, a place where everyone enjoys happiness, the lovely place. But for reasons unspecified, the happiness of all others depend
But they seem to know where they are going, the ones who walk away from Omelas."So what the question boils down to - does the benefit of many outweigh the suffering of few?
Think more about that - isn't the majority's benefit trumping whatever else minority may think the cornerstone of our favorite and concept of such a long time now - that precious and treasured democracy that is so often presented as the ultimate goal of human societal structure.
Through enlightenment and struggle for human rights we apparently have come to the conclusion that at least it's better when minority suffers rather than majority.
I wanted to read this short story in memory of the author who died last week.
I do not want to say anything about the story, it is so short that you should ready it yourself.
What would you allow to be sacrifice for you happiness.
And this: “The trouble is that we have a bad habit, encouraged by pedants and sophisticates, of considering happiness as something rather stupid.
Only pain is intellectual, only evil interesting.
This is the treason of the artist; a refusal to admit the banality of evil and the terrible boredom of pain.”
This story is brilliant!It makes you think, about so many things, which unfortunately I am not in the right mind to explain now. So, review to come!Until then,
That gives it a more allegorical feel.It's unusual in a short story to spend so long on scene-setting, though true to the form, it takes an unexpected turn, which in this one, is rather grim and Biblical and/or Faustian.What price happiness?Who can and should sacrifice what for the greater good?Do individual actions matter, or does going with the flow absolve individual blame?Would you walk away from a familiar and comfortable life if you thought the price that others had to pay was too high?But if walking way changes nothing, is it any worse than staying (and not changing things)?Do we routinely ignore the true cost of our own comforts?
The story begins with an idyllic description of the lovely, joyous city of Omelas, "bright-towered by the sea." The air is clear, young people play and race horses, there's lots of food, non-habit-forming drugs if you want them, guilt-free sex if you want it.
And is walking away good enough?And in what ways do we already do this in our own lives, going along with the crowd despite our qualms or hesitations, or thinking that the end justifies the means in some questionable case?
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.“There's a point, around the age of twenty, when you have to choose whether to be like everybody else the rest of your life, or to make a virtue of your peculiarities.”In “The Dispossessed” by Ursula K.
Le Guin.Thank you, Ursula k.
Le Guin, for encouraging me to celebrate my peculiarities.
If we're not happy with that trade, and I doubt any society that isn't made of psychos would be, then for the utilitarianism is obviously undesirable as second order moral justification.If you're into SF, read on.
At different times in our lives, we are met with choices, important ones. Some idealistic or moralistic, others of practical nature. Still, the question du jour is:  Will you walk away from Omelas when it's time to make that decision?  Or are you going to have your orgies while the world goes to hell in a handbasket?Generally, I am not a fan of Ursula Le Guin but for this story I make an exclusion. There is some ephemeral quality about it, leading us to ponder whether mass exultation at the pric
Will you walk away from Omelas when it's time to make that decision?
Or are you going to have your orgies while the world goes to hell in a handbasket?Generally, I am not a fan of Ursula Le Guin but for this story I make an exclusion.
Q:They were not simple folk, you see, though they were happy.
If an orgy would help, don't hesitate.(c)Q:One thing I know there is none of in Omelas is guilt (c)Q:What else, what else belongs in the joyous city?
(c)Q:But they seem to know where they are going, the ones who walk away from Omelas.
8 pages that tell you about a perfect city, no war and much happiness, freedom and the love of life, all that is good and true.
8 pages that tell you why some prices are too high for happiness.and you can read it for free, right here:http://engl210-deykute.wikispaces.umb...
is happiness worth ignoring cruelty, pain, evil?
is it better to be in a constant state of striving towards happiness, for yourself and for your family and for your world - to always know that that striving never ends, that everlasting happiness and perfection are impossible while there is cruelty, pain, and evil in the world?
I think Le Guin didn't intend for it to be specifically tied to only one situation, but rather as a general question of ethics;- one which mainly challenges the idea of utilitarianism.Of course, the very open-endedness of the scenario allows for it to be applied to as many specific situations as people can find it fit to do.
6.0 stars. On my list of "All Time Favorite" short stories and is in the running to be number one. Not so much a story as a narrative description of a fictional town in which everyone lives in complete and total happiness at the expense of one child's abject misery and suffering. As powerful and as emotional a piece of writing as I have ever read in any genre. Find it and read it and I am sure you will agree. This one is amazing. Highest Possible Recommendation.
As we talk here, we are ourselves the cause of the deaths of countless little lives." - Ramayana (Wiliam Buck rendering)After building a utopia like place in some detail, narrator suddenly turns it into a morality problem, by bringing in a single suffering child.
In real world the luxury of a few has always come at price of suffering of others (humans as well as animals).
English rich probably didn't like that price of their luxurious life should be made that obvious for them.
In case of Omelas only a single child has to suffer for happiness of all.
You can read this short story here or listen to it on YouTube.I want to believe I would walk away from Omelas.
But to a child?
"I will be good," it says.
I will be good!" Why a child?
Child abuse always gets to me.And why this sacrifice?
Symbolism be damned, I want this child freed because i know about him/her.
I despise the people of Omelas for accepting what is done to the child.I cannot give more than 3 stars because of how I feel.
I understand that my strong feelings mean this short story is extremely good.
My first 5 stars of 2018. Ursula never disappoints. One of the best short stories I read in general.
In this timeless moral fable, Ursula Le Guin tells the story of OMELAS ("Oh My Electronic Liberal Association of Socialists"), a group of internet activists who consider themselves the conscience of the United States.
Posing as "the Resistance", they fight for apparently worthy causes like stopping refugee babies from being taken from their mothers, combating gun violence in schools, defending the Earth's fragile ecosystem from heartless multinationals, and preventing the US from becoming a Russian satellite state.
But they are exposed as the hypocrites they are when it is revealed that some of them experienced a vague feeling of satisfaction on hearing that Sarah Huckabee Sanders had been refused service at a small Virginia restaurant.
[Is this correct?
The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas is an unforgettable short story.This does not necessarily mean it is enjoyable, or even good, (although it is!) In this case it is a story which stays with the reader because it poses an ethical quandary - even a conundrum.
How does any individual or group have the right to determine this?This is a philosophical short story by Ursula K.
It explores the responsibilities of society, and the individual, within the context of an allegorical story.
But they seem to know where they are going, the ones who walk away from Omelas.”They cannot bear it.
Is the sacrifice of one or few ever worth it if it means protection of the many?
In a perfect world, should the bullshit get too thick, should our humanity become too thin, that's when it's time to walk away from Omelas.Or is it?
You can stand up and say something is wrong that you cannot stand it, that you cannot bear it, but if you do nothing to change it, what have you really accomplished?
And who among us has the energy, will, courage and daring to change the things we know are wrong?
A re-read.
This is a powerful and thoughtful story; one that should be read by every student of ethics.
LeGuin asks the question: does the good of the many REALLY outweigh the good of the few...
Even if you believe you have answered that question for yourself, to your moral satisfaction, this piece will cause you to question your convictions.
The city of Omelas is a utopia - but it also contains a small, but awful, misery.
Opinions will differ.Every time I read this story, I come away from it convinced that Ursula LeGuin is a better person than I am.
It's curious that so many (amazon) reviewers identify so uncritically with those who walk away.
I think that is the base-note of the story - and the element that haunts those of us who often witness injustice from a heartsick and ineffectual distance: having enough wit to see wrong but not enough imagination/courage/energy to engage with it, change it.
A friend of mine teaches this story in college.
The ones who walk away are defined not by their refusal to be cruel but by their refusal to do anything about it.
Omelas is a place where everyone is happy because they have accepted their happiness.
But that happened only because they realized that that happiness is not given.
It is in contrast with what real misery is, what real cruelty is.
The story is very thought provocative, short and easy to read.
The writer is like she's talking to her audiance, being one of them and not one of the Omelas people.
She understand the doubts of her audiance and she talks like one of them, an outsider trying to understand the world of Omelas.
Overall, good story to read to make you think.
It describes in vivid descriptions a philosophical concept which is an extension of William James's essay The Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life: an utopia which relies on the suffering of a single person can only be wrong.
The title concentrates on the logical consequence that morale persons would take.
It can be understood as an argument against utilitarianism, or a parable of first world exploitation of poorer countries: Think about all the children workers in the Lithium mines of D.R. Kongo just to get you a nice cellphone.Though it doesn't work as a short story at all, it resonates - far better because easier accessible than James's complicate philosophical essay.
This excellent short story has become famous as one of choice and morality.
What would you (or a society) accept as a trade off for a carefree life, a society without war or disharmony, where all enjoy freedom, gaiety, love, laughter, celebration, learning,....except...
There is a price.
And some walk away because of this price--hence the title.
A price to be paid.
As with many decisions in life, the question becomes "Can I as an individual accept this price, my part in it." For some, the choice is to walk away.I wonder about myself.
This book is an analogy for how we justify enjoying our good fortune obtained though the enforced suffering of others. Whether it is within the circle of your own family, your neighbourhood, your state or your country, there is a chain of events, circumstance, belief and acquiescence which continues to sustain an amoral inequality in our local and global societies. We wouldn't need this book or others like it if reality was different.
Thanks to Queen Tadiana whose beautiful review of this short story appeared on my feed a few months ago, I clicked on her link and read this story for myself.This is the second work by Ursula K.
Not only is the city set apart by its beauty, but by its citizens who embody life, happiness, joy, peace, and all that is neighborly and good.But these citizens of Omelas are not simple folk.
Well, except for one.This short story is a little jarring and definitely makes you think.
Omelas is right here, now.You can choose to be an active participant...Or you can walk away.For those who leave, sobered, straitened, there are no guarantees.A powerful wag once said something which we can twist anew, under a different guise - THE PRICE OF LEAVING IS ETERNAL VIGILANCE.For, like it or not, it’s the Season of the Witch - and “you’ve got to pick up every stick.” Watch your back!Le Guin cites two literary precedents for her inspiration in writing this story.
to wit, THE BOOK OF ROMANS.If you own a Kindle, download is cheap, so if you're curious, READ THIS.
Better yet, read BOTH great books.Their combined impact will keep you thinking for a LONG TIME AFTERWARDS!And remember - the miracle that keeps us ALIVE is always the suffering VICTIM.
Before you laugh and dismiss this as perfect nonsense, let me ask; is this not how many of us view our place, our lives, our utopia of happiness and joy?But there is another side of Omelas, a dark side.
Does their existence remind us that our lives are good, even happy?Some of the people of Omelas, adults and children both, who come to see the child are profoundly touched.
Le Guin nos transporta a la ciudad de Omelas, una especie de paraíso que parece tenerlo todo pero en la que nada es gratuito.Plantea Le Guin con el cuento una paradoja de la felicidad ya abordada por el filosofo William James sobre el coste ético de las sociedades civilizadas ¿Hasta qué punto estamos dispuestos a llegar por mantener este ideal?
Un cuento muy corto con un final repleto de interpretaciones y lecturas que cada uno puede tener ¿Adonde van los que se alejan de aceptar el horror de Omelas?
To exchange all the goodness and grace of every life in Omelas for that single, small improvement: to throw away the happiness of thousands for the chance of happiness of one: that would be to let guilt within the walls instead." The story tells of Omelas, a utopian city with inhabitants full of joy, living a content and prosperous life.
And they all know that the child’s presence in the dark basement room is the price, the cost of living in the prosperous city of Omelas.
It was also here that I began to realize, it's also not merely because of the suffering of that single child that Omelas is a city of prosperity.
She raises fears and smooths them away, she weaves the ecstatic vision with lovely words.And knowing she has failed she tells us the dark secret, the maggot in this shiny wholesome apple.Le Guin laboured to make describing joy a confounding struggle, but from here she is running downhill; appeals to the reader cease, and in an almost audible breathlessness she lays out the injustice perpetrated and sanctioned by every member of the society.
They know that they, like the child, are not free.

What starts out to be a description of a Utopian society morphs into a question on morality and the appropriateness of the suffering of one to insure the pleasure of the many.
What a complicated story this turns out to be!
Why do we select from amongst us martyrs or even classes of people to carry the burden of our guilt?
And why are there so few of them, and their convictions so puzzling to the masses?This short story will require very little of your time to read, but it might occupy your thoughts for quite a while after you have finished.
