https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77100.On_the_Far_Side_of_the_Mountain
A brilliant younger sister leads her brother on a wild goose chase just for fun while he is worried sick about her trying to survive like he had done (his story in the first book of this series). This story is the shortest of the three, but I loved the siblings relationship with each other. The author did an excellent job keeping the story line unique to itself and different from the first book in the series. Not quite as good as the first book, but so close that I had to give it five stars too. :)
On the Far Side of the Mountain by Jean Craighead George, is about a teenage boy that goes off into the woods and lives a life away from modern civilization. In this book Sam’s sister joins him in the wild. Alice builds a tree house then she runs away from her brother. Sam uses his resources to hopefully find her. All and all, this book is a great about survival in the woods and to me has a classic style.
I don't remember this much, either. I think it was pretty good. :)
I know I'm not the age demographic for this novel but the title could have been "They went for a hike and nothing bad happened."
But, one day Sam can not find Alice anywhere and eventually finds a clue from her showing which way she has gone.
Sam and Bando find many more of Alice’s clues and meet many people on their way.
The author expresses what each of the characters are thinking extremely well throughout the entire book.I would guess that this story takes place during the 1990’s.
Almost the entire story takes place in the woods, on “Sam’s Mountain.” The author does a great job describing the atmosphere of the woods at times and what is happening.I would recommend this book to any reader that enjoys stories involving wilderness and survival.
There was a lot of things I loved about this book and sad.
The top thing I loved is how Alice lives with Sam until she goes on her own adventure.
I also love how Alice has her own home which is a tree house.
My last thing that I loved is how Alice thought it was fun for Sam trying to find her and Sam was scared to death about Alice.
I learned that hac means to breed endangered animals .This book was really good although I wish Sam called for Frightful at the end to keep her.
Not as good as the first, but still ok.
I really love the simple but poignant style.There was a little bit of a structure problem in the beginning of the book with an exorbitant amount of flashbacks.
Sam is so worried about Frightful that he reads through his old journal entries to calm himself down, and so we get all these flashbacks through his journal.
But by the middle of the book, we are done with flashbacks, Sam is in the middle of the action, and the plot moves forward without all the explanations that slow it down at first.I was captivated with the plot and how the ending resolved itself.
In book one, Sam ran away from New York City. He started a new life in the Catskill Mountains. In this story, his younger sister Alice has joined him. She lives in a tree house of her own nearby. The two find danger and adventure when the forest service and government don't want them there.
Read this with my seventh grade student. He enjoyed it. It's very different from the first in that Sam is no longer a solo mountain man. He's had family come and build lots of structures, gardens, etc. His sister has a treehouse. I appreciate Sam's evolution regarding captive birds of prey, but I'm glad to be done reading about fishing using deer tendons.
loved this book great story and moves along at good pace. I would reck amend this book to anyone that has read the 1st book and wants to know what happens after the family joins him.
the story of the book was a fun idea that left me satisfied. My only problem with the Book is the flash backs in Sam's journal kinda took away from the story.
Not my cup of tea. Loved the survival details, wasn't compelled by the storyline.
It wasent as good as the first 1‼️
The book is about a teenage boy named Sam who lives in the wilderness with his sister, Alice.
One day Sam could not find Alice anywhere and eventually finds a clue from her showing which way she has gone.
They search throughout the Catskill Mountains and eventually start hearing noises.
They eventually get Alice to come down out of the tree and they start on their way back to their home.The main characters of this book are Sam and Alice.
This is displayed in the book when it shows how close Sam and Alice get to nature and love how it is naturally.
There didn’t seem to be any point to the mystery of Alice’s disappearance if it crossed only a tangential path with the phony Leon Longbridge and the confiscation of Frightful.
There was even a point when it seemed the author intended to add drama to the story, when Sam wonders why the tracks made by Crystal, Alice’s pig, suggest that she had to drag Crystal away to the forest.
Or, considering the first book came out in 1959, maybe this one, published in 1990, asked me to suspend too much of my disbelief about what Sam and Alice want out of life (not to mention what they achieve).
This was a really good intersting adventure outdoors book.
I liked it a lot better than the first book, "My Side of the Mountain".
Sam lives in the wilderness and built everthing himself, furniture and his house, and in this book Sam's sister, Alice, comes to live with him.
Alice built a tree house to live in and builds furniture, but then she ran away.
She really likes waterfalls, could she be headed for one?
Meanwill Sam's falcon get confiscated.
Will Sam find Alice and his falcon or will he get arrested for not having a falcon license and not having a falcon.
Full review @ Smoke & Mirrors: http://books-n-music.blogspot.com/201.... What a gorgeous book! There is a mystery and some danger, and an amazing ending! Sam may no longer "have" Frightful, but that's okay. He realizes now that all wild animals should remain wild. And he may decide to make electricity on his mountain!
I really liked this book. It was about the wild and very interesting.
She ends up staying with him on the mountain but like the last story, the book slips almost immediately out of present tense into past tense as Sam reads through his journals.
It makes everything in the past tense feel like a way to kill time until we get back to the present.
Sam pointed out several times what good parents they were in the first book but I'm going to go ahead and call him a biased source on that.
Another problems was that the American peregrine falcon was listed as endangered in 1970.
If Sam was 15 in 1959 (when the first book was written), then he'd be 26, but he was still a teen in this book.The biggest problem I had was with the first few chapters of the book.
It seemed like a "How to Survive in Nature" book with a little bit of story instead of a story with a little bit of "How to Survive in Nature." Casting all this aside (which is a lot to cast aside), it was a good story.
I will be reading the next book, Frightful's Mountain, as soon as I find a copy.
The sequel has survival elements but also incorporates a sister (who Sam clashes with) and environmental law officers.
And while it is great to see a female character who is smart and outdoorsy, it's unfortunate that Sam complains about her so much, making her appear to be more of a nuisance.
Considering this book was written much later than the original, the reader has to question if the science and environmental laws match up to the time period of the first book.
While the first book taught a love for primitive skills, these sequel introduces real conversation and environmental issues, which are very important for readers to learn about.
I read this aloud to my kids after we had finished My Side of the Mountain, and we enjoyed it very much.
I love the first book because you learn so much about living in the wild and there is a real sense of being able to learn anything by reading and trying your best.
This book rounds out the other because you learn about conservation, laws that protect wild creatures, and you get a great sense of how you can love and appreciate nature in a more modern, more conservative way.
A great read for young naturalists!
Some readers think this story is slow, and uninteresting, but I love an occasional old style story that tells of simpler times in an uncomplicated narrative.
The teens in this story are left by their parents to live off the land- unusual and unlikely even in the 1940's.
The first books tells of the boy making a home in the woods.
Now his sister lives there two.
They travel many miles in a "tracking" game of sorts that uses natural directions, and hints, and clues for the brother to follow, and find his sister.
Kind of a nice break from angst ridden young adult fiction of our current times.
I read this with my 3rd grader.
He liked it a little more than I did.
I need to go back and read the first one in the series to him.
I don't think the sequel stands up like the original.
I feel the same way about some other similar books like Hatchet.
The first one is so cool and original and then the authors write sequels and more sequels and they don't hold the same magic that the first one did.
He'd give it 5 stars but he'll need to start his own GoodReads account to be able to rate it.
Two years after Sam spent a year on the mountain, he is back with his sister, Alice. She has that same spirit of adventure plus independence and builds her own tree house near Sam. Trouble comes when Sam's falcon is captured and Alice disappears. This book is more of a mystery to solve than just learning to survive. The usual greeting from their adult friend who visits infrequently, "Hello, the house."
Sam now must find Frightful and his sister before it is too late.Sam is a 14 year old boy who is in love with nature.
The part that says “making my mountaintop home as simple as it was when I first came here more than two years ago.” is one of Sam’s memory moments.The theme of this book is nature’s wonders are amazing.
Sam lives in nature and relishes it.
That is why the theme is nature’s wonders are amazing.I would recommend this book to readers who like nature.
My children are thoroughly enjoying these "escape to the wilderness" books. There's a bit of a conservationist theme to this one, and a chance to add some falconry terms to the vocabulary. I noticed a couple of the minor characters had names (or aliases) that fit the theme. Sam's independence and self-reliance are enchanting to children. There's much to learn here about the natural world and the mechanics of water mills.
Why do authors always like having their main characters give their pets away? It's not cool and it's not fun to read about. If my dog got lost and someone adopted her or she was living on her own in the wild (ha!), I would still take her home and keep her because she's my dog. Not cool, guys, not cool. *mini-rant over*
Read with my daughter. We liked the original very much; this is a fair sequel. Gets off to a running start with a disaster befalling Frightful, then meanders off for a long while before returning to what feels like the main story! My daughter appreciated the addition of a feisty female character in the form of Alice Gribley. I liked the ending.
