https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1077704.The_Apple_and_the_Arrow
For according to my understanding of the Wilhelm Tell legend (and how Wilhelm Tell is also portrayed in Friedrich Schiller's famous play on the latter, how he is featured in Schiller's brilliant 1804 drama Wilhelm Tell), Wilhelm Tell is actually and generally NOT as he is for the most part portrayed by the Buffs as right from the BEGINNING of The Apple and the Arrow being an active conspirator against Gessler and Habsburg authority (no, Tell has generally or at least more often than not been portrayed both historically, folklorically and in European literature as someone who is at first rather an aloof and coolheaded loner, who although sympathetic to the rebellion against Austria, against Habsburg, is more concerned with his freedom as a lone mountain huntsman and only decides to actively and wholly join in the rebellion against Austrian rule when Gessler basically and without pardon and mercy forces his hand with the apple/arrow incident).
I loved the legend more than the book. This Newberry honor book of only eighty pages was offered time and again in the Scholastic book orders for fifty cents or a dollar. I purchased them for my classroom, but truthfully rarely saw anyone take interest. It's not a great read aloud, but is an okay offering in early reader historical fiction.
Reading for CC2 during the Medieval Period. Jacob picked out this book to read. We read it over 3 years ago but Ellie was too young to remember..krb 9/7/16Both kids liked this book. Wonderful book that shows how Switzerland began, fighting against tyranny, and the love of God..krb 9/10/16
Look, I get it, people want to imagine that good little Christian children behave piously when unaccompanied by their parents.
This was supposed to be taking place in the 1200's in Switzerland but it reads how a 1950's parent would wish for their would-be altar boy to behave.
I was going to attempt to read all the Newbery medal books; this book perfectly exemplifies why I've abandoned that endeavor.
Now my goal is to TRY all the Newbery medal books.
Would love to see someone tackle a William Tell book for children in a way that would actually be entertaining.
The action peaks at the suspenseful scene in which the great archer William Tell, a hero in the mold of Robin Hood, is forced by the cruel sovereign Gessler to use his vaunted bow to shoot an apple resting on the top of his own eleven-year-old son Walter's head.
Walter is going to be right in the middle of the action as matters turn from bleak to even bleaker, and he is compelled to put his life in the hands of his father to an extent that few children will ever be required to match.The Apple and the Arrow is an excellent story, but I'd have to say that what stands out best about it is the way that Walter handles the apple-shooting incident.
The story contained within the pages of this book was a great story--good morals, evil failing, bravery.
The overall story was interesting and good but I just didn't like the way it was executed.
The story follows a small boy and his famous and brave father William Tell.
We see how William Tell and his men go about planning a revolution and are thwarted at first by evil men and then triumph over that.
A main point of the story is when William shoots an apple from Walter's head.
All will die together too, if it ever comes to that." I look at the things going on in our nation and they seem so divisive.
William teaches us another, perhaps more profound, lesson when in the town square, he is told to bow before a hat waving on a flag pole.
A hat is nothing to worship.'The lesson here is what he teaches us.
Walter teaches us the most powerful of all the lessons contained in this book.
The power of faith!
When the time comes for William to shoot the apple off Walters head Walter with complete faith and confidence tells his father to do it.
It fell near that old rotten log over there--the one with the big hole in it."Premise/plot: Walter Tell loves his father William very much.
And he's a bit proud that he's old enough and responsible enough to hold such important secrets, secrets that could endanger the lives of his father and other men of the community of Uri. You see, come New Year's Day, the men are planning to revolt against the Austrians.
My thoughts: I'd heard a tiny bit about William Tell before.
(17)Dear Lord, Father of all men, look down upon us this great night.
This book had a lot of appeal maybe because of the strong antagonist/protagonist theme.
Switzerland is in a revolution against its Austrian rulers.
Little Rudi and his younger brother Prinz live in a Swiss village in 1291, and courageous Rudi is the main character of this book.
The book is rich in description of the surroundings of this mountainous region of Switzerland.
William Tell, Rudi's father, plays an important role in this book with his sharp thinking, skill, and strength.
Many other characters add depth and interest to this story that makes you feel like there is possiblity and hope against all odds with the love of family and help of friends.
Confession: I didn't think I was going to like this book because it looks like the type of book I wouldn't enjoy, from the time period of Newbery Honor winners that I haven't particularly enjoyed.
And now I know a little more about how Switzerland came to be, and who the William Tell Overture is written about.
I could see a child in fourth or fifth grade enjoying this book, especially as it is told from the perspective of a child that age who looks up to his father.
Had it been written from the father's point of view I don't think it would have been as powerful.
The Apple And The Arrow was a book that I really was good.
In the begging Walter was shooting arrows and his father came back late at night and told him the he would take him to Aldouf.
In the middle Walter asked his father to tell the story of when he was younger and how he ran away form the solders.
At the end Walter and his brother went to a fire late at night and Walter had to carry his brother home and they all fell asleep.I really liked this book and it was easy to read and I recommend this book to a reader that likes to have a short story to read.
I read this for myself and attempted to read it to my eldest daughter. Sadly, she was not interested. I read it to know the tale of the legendary William Tell. It was fun and I learned more about honor and love of country and family. I also love the overture of the William Tell operetta because it is also the theme of The Lone Ranger.
We really enjoyed this true story of the independence of Switzerland. We liked how it pointed out the difference one man can make to change the course of events in his own world. Freedom requires courage and this story displays the courage of a family to gain independence from tyranny. There are lots of good attributes represented in this book.
I just read this book to some of my kids (ages 8-12) and we all loved it. I have been meaning to read this to them for years and just never did. I think this book has some great messages about faith, courage, family, and freedom. It also got us interested in learning more about Switzerland. The kids were engaged and begged me to keep reading. You can easily read this aloud in one or two sittings.
"He knew what wise men have always known, that man lives by faith, and that faith can be stronger than fear..." This was so much more than a story about William Tell. In five short chapters we learned and lived the history of the founding of Switzerland. A wonderful and touching book.
Finally now understand the story of William Tell.
Although this book was written in the early 1950s, it reads more like an Edwardian novel. So if you insist upon action-packed children's books, you won't like The Apple and the Arrow. That said, it's the best recounting of the story of William Tell IN CONTEXT that I've ever encountered and my children enjoyed it a great deal.
Though very simple and short, this is a great historical fiction. Although we don’t know how much of the story of William Tell is true, they tell it well, and in a way that helps the reader to understand what life in the Middle Ages, under the rule of a tyrannical monarch was like. I think this is good for all ages.
This was excellent! I never realized William Tell wasn't British. I learned more than I expected. Very well written and easy to read.
Read aloud to Matthew. A delightful and exciting story for all, but a boy will definitely enjoy this version of the legend of William Tell!
Amazing story of the revolt against Austria in 1291 that formed the country of Switzerland. Kid book!
Read this with Lee. Loved the story and illustrations.
11/29/18Historical Fiction3rd-5th gradeGreat illustrations depicting a beloved classic. Lengthy, so definitely better suited for older elementary.
It is the year 1290 and eleven-soon-to-be-twelve-year-old Walter Tell lives happily in the remote heights of the Swiss Alpine Mountains near the village of Burglen with his father William, who is known as the greatest bowman in the canton of Uri and perhaps even in the nearby cantons of Schwys and Underwalden, his mother Hedwig, his little brother Rudi, and their herd dog Prinz.
King Albrecht is the new ruler of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, but unlike his late good father Rudolph he sends cruel bailiffs like Gessler to live at nearby Altdorf and oppress the people.
:)The Story.William Tell is the best bowman in the whole canton of Uri. And Walter Tell wants to be just like his father – bold and talented, courageous and indefatigable in the pursuit of justice.But William’s resolve in the face of tyranny has earned him the hatred of Gessler at Altdorf.
I love children’s stories that are set during historical times.
And I love stories about archers.
And I love stories about legendary heroes.
And I love stories with medieval settings.
End of story.The religion is Catholic, as it should be – the Father, Christ, and Mary’s names are all invoked at different points.Conclusion.
This story tells of a family with two young and adventurous boys and their parents in the land of Uri. Walter and his father visit the land of Altdorf and Hedwig's father.
The situation escalates and soon Gessler comes into the picture and tells William to shoot an arrow at an apple atop of his son, Walter's head.
Miraculously, William breaks the apple in half with the arrow.
My favorite passage was when Walter was easdropping on his parents when he was supposed to be sleeping and his father is talking to Hedwig, " I will take Walter with me.
This is scheduled in SL A (old K) during the first half of the year.
While this is a great book, I think it is too early in the year to read it.
Three times through and each time I've decided to pull it and add it back in at the end of the year.
(You'd think I would have learned by now.) Each time they would glaze over when we tried it with the schedule, but later on they were truly into the story and loved it.
My olders (7 and 9 years old) have loved reading it to themselves as well, just for fun.
I loved this book because it portrayed a family that was normal and had values.
I also like how the son is so obedient and he looks up to his father a ton.
He also is told to look after his brother and tries his best at that.
I love how it ends happily and things all work out.
I recommend hitting balloons with darts for a fun activity for students who read this book.
It will show how skilled the father is and how hard it really is to aim at one thing.
I loved this! Mary Buff writes this in such a way that you're just cheering for the heroes to win! My favorite part was the ending. This is a beautiful story about standing up for what you believe in even when it's hard, and this was a big part of the lesson she includes at the end. She explains that even if this story is completely fictional, it's one that has weight in our lives today because there are always battles we encounter where we have to stand up, where we have to support the freedoms of ourselves and others.
The Apple and the Arrow is the story of a young boy, who's father is a hero to the country of Switzerland. He is a man who stands up for what is right and for what he believes in. It is a kind of story that you would think typical of a historical fiction tale. His father is a mighty man who does what's right no matter the cost. Overall I thoroughly enjoyed the story and would recommend it to anyone looking for a great historical fiction story.
