https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1532332.Jefferson_and_the_Rights_of_Man
This second volume of a six-volume series about Thomas Jefferson mainly covers his time as Secretary of State under Washington. Also, there is intriguing info about his time in Paris just prior to the French Revolution. Looking forward to eventually reading the remaining volumes!
Exhausting
http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2013/...“Jefferson and the Rights of Man” is the second of six volumes in the Pulitzer Prize winning epic biography of Thomas Jefferson authored by Dumas Malone.
Where in the first volume we saw Jefferson mature, enter politics, draft the Declaration of Independence, marry and serve as a war governor of Virginia, in this second volume he “merely” spent several ineffectual years in Europe as a diplomat and served three largely frustrating years as Secretary of State.But it is the manner in which Malone weaves the major themes of Jefferson’s life during this period together with the increasingly fractious personalities of the time which holds the reader’s interest.
Malone's second volume on Thomas Jefferson, beginning with his voyage to France in 1784 to be one of the American envoys to help Benjamin Franklin and John Adams negotiate treaties with the French.
The book is divided into two distinct parts: the first half takes place in Paris and details Jefferson's life and duties there, and the second half discusses his tenure as the first Secretary of State, and delves into his political and personal battles with Alexander Hamilton.
The telling of Jefferson's battles with Hamilton illustrates Malone's bias.
Its timeline covers the period of Thomas Jefferson's life from the time of his mission to Europe (at the conclusion of the Revolutionary War and the interim of the Articles of Confederation years) to the near end of his time as Secretary of State in the Washington administration.
The latter's desire to institute a stronger federal government clashed repeatedly with Jefferson's profession to desire a smaller one, and the manner in which James Madison sided with his fellow Virginian in taking on Hamilton from his post in Congress (sometimes without attribution) was like a mini-drama in and of itself.
Yet of another crucial character in the real-life drama that inspired the film – Sally Hemings, who resided with Jefferson in Paris, and is played in the film by a young Thandie Newton – Malone has not a word to say in the 488 pages of Jefferson and the Rights of Man. It would be left to later historians to make those aspects of the record more complete.Thomas Jefferson’s time in France also saw the completion and publication of the only book he ever published during his lifetime, Notes on the State of Virginia.
Book is old now -- Hamilton is a traitor, Jefferson is noble. The book does a great job of showing what life was like then -- when the government went to Philadelphia Jefferson rented a house -- sight unseen, naturally, which turned out not to be ready for him. His first months of secretary of state he was sleeping in his living room while they finished the bedroom, and even after that he had to eat at a neighbor's house while they made eating available. Hard to imagine a Secretary of State living like that now.
This second installment was not as good as the first one. About half of it was really boring, but there were passages of it that were riveting. Malone doesn't attempt to distinguish between the important and the trivial. He gives equal space to both, but I appreciate his thoroughness, and It's good to know that he leaves nothing out. I'm look forward to the third volume!
understanding the man even more
This second volume of Malone's biography on Thomas Jefferson covers the years 1784 to 1792. The timeframe covered therefore is much smaller than that of the first volume. However these years are filled with quite lots of things happening: It covers Jefferson's work as amasador of the young United States to Paris, his views of the French Revolution, his years as Secretary of State and his relationship with Alexander Hamilton. Malone again achives an inside view of Jefferson's political thinking.
A well-structured book, divided nearly in half by two important phases of Jefferson's career, first as Franklin's successor as ambassador to France, and then his service as the first secretary of state in the newly-constituted United States.
He didn't succeed on the latter issue, a constitutional amendment to that effect didn't come until nearly two centuries later, but in the event, Washington at least set a potent precedent by retiring after two terms.The last fifth or so of the book traces the rising antagonism between Hamilton and Jefferson.
I'm not entirely sure whether the difficulty of this book is the fault of its subject matter or the style of the author.
But then again, it's hard to fault the subject matter, because it's simply reflective of the historical record.Whatever the reason, I found Volume 2 of Malone's Jefferson series to be a dull but important bit of history.
Having covered Jefferson's biographical background in the initial volume, Malone continues unpacking the political side in the second.
These other conflicts: foreign policy, diplomacy, the proper role of the individual positions of government- are no less important, but Malone simply has not given this volume the scale such detail demands.
This review applies to the entire series, Jefferson and His Times.Anyone who wants to understand a fraction of Jefferson, needs to start here.
Heavily footnoted, this series puts to shame all other works on this great American.
Some popular authors have written of Jefferson suggesting what he may have thought, or he may have done (Brody, anyone?) Malone is authoritative and needs not speculate.
Read the series and then ask yourself, "Is it more likely than not that Jefferson fathered Sally Hemming's children?" I can only conclude that he did not.
All resurrected in the hope of distracting the American public from a current political scandal.
This book covers the years Jefferson spent as a diplomat in France and his service as Secretary of State.
This is probably the least interesting part of Jefferson's life to me so it was tough to get through the book.
The part on Hamilton and Jefferson, although interesting, was so biased toward Jefferson it was hard to read.
Now I know Hamilton was not a saint, but he certainly wasn't the villain Malone paints him out to be.
It's really irritating the lengths that Malone goes to cover for Jefferson, especially regarding his penchant for married women.
You really have to be a reader to read Dumas Malone.
HIGHLY recommend for anyone interested in the political history of our country.
Will be posting about each of the biographies in this series, but cannot state emphatically enough how much I enjoy reading these over and over.Each book sequentially covers a part of Jefferson's robust life.
He was, as many know, not just an enormous influence in American history, but a prolific author and highly educated man.
He was also very clinical about his beliefs in life and made no secret of his suspicion of religious ideals.This would be an incredible summer reading series for someone in high school or college.
This is the second volume of Malone's biography of Thomas Jefferson.
Not sure why there needs to be three volumes since she includes so many minute details about his personal life, such as his expense accounts during his initial arrival in Paris.
A significant attempt at revisionism includes an attempt to clarify Jefferson's personal views of George Washington, which have in previous works been described as highly critical of the Father of our Country.
Jefferson has been accused of secretly attacking Washington during his second term in office based on a belief that he was mentally incapable of conducting the duties of office.
Jefferson and the Rights of Man is the second volume in Malone’s series and covers the years 1784-1792 from Jefferson’s ministry to France at the early stages of the French Revolution and his service as secretary of state in President George Washington’s first cabinet.
Jefferson’s extended residence in Europe was influential in solidifying his opinions about monarchical rule (he had a rather dim view of the subject) and his subsequent promotion of a Bill of Rights to the Constitution.
The latter part of the book focuses on the decision to move the capital from Philadelphia to Washington DC and the rising conflict (increasingly personal) between Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton.
Malone's hateboner for Alexander Hamilton could be seen from space. Without a telescope.Snide comment aside, this series is a wonderful resource for anyone who wants to learn about Thomas Jefferson, but it does read like an apologia in spots, with many of his assertions about Jefferson's motives based on nothing but Malone's obvious regard for his subject.
white guy #3 vol 2
Well, I didn't exactly finish reading this book. I set it aside to pursue other reading adventures and never got back to it, so I'm pulling it from my currently-reading list.
Much dryer than Vol. I, mostly due to what Jefferson was up to at this point in his life.
