https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/448944.The_Selected_Poetry
drunken charlie, part ivshe lay in the stern of the boat,and her body sang like a lark:i curse the war-makers i cursethose that run to the ends of the earthto exalt a system or savea foreign power or foreign trade.my boy was killed by a sea-lion,and that was cruel but it was clean.there are men plotting to killa million boys for a dead dream.oh my dear there are some thingsthat are well worth fighting for.fight to save a sea-gull's wings:that would be a sacred war.
You can really trace Jeffers' mental state as these evolve with time--in earlier times they range from meditations on the beauty of the world around Big Sur to nihilistic and pacificist diatribes that are strongly tied to the World Wars that happened under his watch.
The pieces of narrative poetry tell compelling and heartbreaking stories akin to greek tragedies, with the setting transported to the rugged coasts of Central California--a place at the time that was a haven for rugged individualists and ranchers instead of wealthy tourists.
While someone obtuse at first, they gradually unfold to tell very powerful stories and there is a really interesting mix of classical tragedy and modern settings.
One of my favorites. I picked this up a month ago when I ran out of books -- I've read it cover to cover once, and worked my way back through much of it again and again. If you 1) love nature, 2) are skeptical of human beings (especially when they congregate in cities, corporations, and [worst of all] Congresses), and 3) really like rocks, trees, waves, and sometimes oblique, sometimes brutal, sometimes gorgeous poetry, I recommend this. I'm planning a pilgrimage to Carmel-by-the-Sea, and then building my own karsty, crusty version of Tor House.

I suppose the complete poems would be a bit much for me but I treasure this selected version of fine poetry. Some of my very favorite poems of all time are in this collection
I was a bit disappointed.
I expected his body of work to resemble my favorite poem of his, "Apology For Bad Dreams".
I was not anticipating long slogs through what could have been short stories, but which lacked the fire and sting of his shorter pieces.
I didn't care for any of the long works, and there are many of them.
This volume did not have as many of those drops of wonder as I had hoped.I own the book, so I can always go back through someday and try to chew those longer pieces until they can be swallowed more easily.

Jeffers is a strange poet. I'm not sure whether to take it all seriously. Perhaps it is my Englishness, but I felt a bubbling need to chuckle at times: the blood, the power, the metaphors spilling guts all over the place.
This here stack of verse has earned its spot upon my bedside for, what could be, the rest of mortal existence. 10/10
In this, the definitive selection of Jeffers poetry, there is a broad selection that includes his best efforts.
"Rock and Hawk" is both one of his greatest poems and one of my favorites; but I also relish the great thoughts found in some of the smallest poems: "I am neither mountain nor birdNor star: and I seek joy."Jeffers, who lived on and often wrote about the California coast, is regarded by many as “the father of environmental poetry.” He attracted controversy for his pacifism and his philosophy of “Inhumanism,” which advocated "a shifting of emphasis and significance from man to notman; the rejection of human solipsism and recognition of the trans-human magnificence." But I like to focus on the beauty of his words; for example "Tor House" which is today a popular stop for both literary travelers and environmentalists.If you should look for this place after a handful of lifetimes: Perhaps of my planted forest a few May stand yet, dark-leaved Australians or the coast cypress, haggard With storm-drift; but fire and the axe are devils.
The love of freedom has been the quality of Western man.
For the Greeks the love of beauty, for Rome of ruling; for the present age the passionate love of discovery; But in one noble passion we are one; and Washington, Luther, Tacitus, Aeschylus, one kind of man.
You were not born to prosperity, you were born to love freedom.
You did not say "en masse," you said "independence." But we cannot have all the luxuries and freedom also.
The states of the next age will no doubt remember you, and edge their love of freedom with contempt of luxury.
I have read about 300 pages, selected poems from Jeffers first five books (Tamar, Roan Stallion, The Women at Point Sur, Cawdor).
Jeffers lived in the Big Sur area, and has lots of nature poems (usually with storms and eagles and waves).
He also likes to write long, tragic epic poems.
Cawdor (the poem) is about an old widower, who marries a younger woman.
As a result of this marriage, the younger woman is allowed to tend to her blind father at Cawdor's house.
Too much is the poem Tamar.
Jeffers later wrote a poem apologizing for that one.

If you are going to have one book of Jeffers, and if you are interested at all in 20th century American poetry you must have at least one, this is the one.
Jeffers wrote a lot of beautiful shorter poems, but to really feel his passion it is necessary to become immersed in the longer narratives and this book gives some of them.
Each of these narrative poems are over 100 pages.
I would recommend buying this book (I found it used) and getting the others from the library.
Religions could and should be formed based out of this guy's point of view. I know it has informed the way I look at the world. Wait until those long winter nights, turn off the TV and open this book to just about any poem and just read. I find some of the longer form pieces which he's known for to be a little hard to follow and get through, so usually I'll just focus on one paragraph or sentence which really resonates. "I seem to have stood a long time and watched the stars pass."
I wanted so much to be the kind of person who likes Robinson Jeffers and his poetry, but I am just not. I've tried for years to read this book to no avail. He has a harsher eye, imagine if Carl Sandburg carried a grudge and wanted to keep things real, then you would have Jeffers. And I just don't like where his words take me.
Jeffers poetry is very......interesting. He covers a wide variety of topics from nature to scandal to religion. He also has a wide variety of writing styles from poetry to plays from lengthy stories to very short poems. His time frames vary from ancient times to WWII. A vast array is covered in this poetry with a little for everyone.
Could not get into his style; even though I wanted to love the descriptions of nature, something would always sound a sour note. His poem I like the best an untitled piece starting with "The unformed volcanic earth, a female thing" was not in the edition available in my library...
Wonderful free verse narrative poems of a rural, littoral California long gone by (Depression era). I carried this tome around for quite a while. Many poems are like Greek tragedies. All the verse is strong, moving, gripping.
Jeffers gets 5 stars on GoodReads! I imagine this is because you either know and love him, or you don't know him. There is no natural poetry that captures the stoic, patient understanding of the world half so well.
violence, hawks, rocks, big sur, a healthy distaste for man meets a sharp reverence for classical lit. homer meets muir. jarring, uncomprimising, resounding, righteous poetry. Jeffers is underrated.
The praise of violence and the contempt for people seems to me to be very much in the vein of fascism. If you want to see what I mean, read the description of the flight of the soul of the dead eagle (I'm not making that up) toward the end of Cawdor. I'm troubled by a number of these poems.
The greatest American poet, in my mind. Jeffers surpasses all others in the poetic art!
My favorite poet. Not for everyone, chock full of adult themes but very much an insight into the feral California male and his living off and in step with the untamed land.
4.5 stars(I didn't read most of the narrative poems)
Skip the long poems (highly tedious) and revel in the compact, cranky little gems of this neglected "inhumanist" poet
“Joy is a trick in the air…”
I am almost through this book completely. In many ways it is the only book I should ever need to read... : )
I wrote my senior thesis in high school on Jeffers. His poetry makes you want to move west and live off the earth
That I wish I could afford the collected works by Standford Press. I love Jeffers. Inhumanism is where it's at.
