https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60465.Wild_Mountain_Thyme
Wow, this was a surprisingly wonderful Pilcher! I only say that because I tend to expect the shorter novels to be a little less interesting than her "big" novels but this one was nearly just as good. This was a lovely story with a compelling setting and atmosphere in the Northern Scotland seaside and interesting quirky characters. Her very visual prose, a little romance and some tragedy and angst make for a satisfying read.
Una historia entrañable, predecible, sí, pero entrañable al fin y al cabo.Está vez viajamos hasta las tierras altas de Escocia de la mano de Rosamunde Pilcher y el viaje, como siempre que nos acompañan sus historias, resulta placentero.No creo que sea una de sus mejores novelas pero es perfectamente disfrutable sí te gustan las historias sencillas pero llenas de reflexión y sentimiento sin llegar nunca a ser empalagosas.Me reafirmó en que quiero seguir leyendo a esta mujer
I am guessing this book was NOT was those people meant for me to read since this was NOT my personal reading taste - at all!!I hate weak female leads especially those that are constantly doing things that makes the reader want shake the character to see I maybe the little bit of spine might snap into place with enough force!
still Pilcher must have more and actually good things to offer right??I am giving her another chance but this book was not good at all!
And such a woman is, unfortunately, the protagonist Victoria Bradshaw.
By living in a monastery?!), she washes his clothes, she gets him from the airport...I have to confess, every time, that Oliver guy did something mean, I thought "Great, NOW she's going to wake up and realize he's an asshole" but at the end of the book I personally thought she deserved it, being so helpless and stupid.
Of course, she realizes her mistake just in time to turn to the next guy available, John, who even owns a castle and earns a LOT of money (jeeeeeez, that girl really learnt from her mistakes)...
I love her books because they are gently written, invoke a bygone era, and leave you with fuzzies inside.
Readers should remember these were written many years ago, and I think that is why some people interpret her females as weak.
You could say that Victoria in this novel is weak and stupid, or you can think of her as a young, insecure female who's unsure of her worth.
I think her personality can still be seen in today's young women and the poor choices they sometimes make with men.
In that way, her novels are timeless.
Okay...going into this, I already knew that Rosamunde Pilcher's books moved at a very leisurely pace, but this one was absolutely excruciating. Besides that, just about nothing actually happened in the book and it was all just very predictable. Not to mention there are only so many descriptions of scenery a person can take. Probably about a third of the book was devoted to describing the surrounding area in Scotland. I am so relieved to be done with this book.
“Leitura leve para preencher o ócio”Este é o meu segundo livro de Rosamunde, e da mesma forma que o primeiro, a escritora conseguiu me transpor ao local da história por meio da descrição dos espaços e das personagens. Decidi iniciar o livro em um momento de ócio, e embora o enredo não tenha sido muito instigante, foi bastante agradável a leitura. Recomendo para quem procura uma leitura mais leve.
Ισως οχι το καλύτερο της (3,5 αστεράκια )αλλα η Πίλτσερ ποτε δεν με απογοητευει!Με την γραφή και τις υπέροχες περιγραφές της μου βγάζει πάντα ηρεμία και αισιοδοξία. Μου άρεσε!
With just a few mild observations and descriptions of emotions, the reader knows right away he is a horrible human being.
Throughout the book, the reader wonders when Victoria is going to wake up.
Even in the middle of the book when he threatens to “beat her black and blue,” she still makes excuses for him and hopes to make a life for them and his son, (that he kidnapped from his dead wife’s legal guardians), that she now loves as her very own.
It looks like Victoria is the least favorite of all the Pilcher heroines.
oliver has stolen his 2 year old son from his grandparents - but he walked out on when the marriage broke up he turns up on the doorstep of victoria - an ex girlfriend who's heart he also broke - and she agrees to his suggestion that they go on a journey to scotland together they arrive at an estate where a person whom oliver met at a literary function said that he was welcome at any time?
The descriptions of the emotions as well as the landscape are so vivid that the reader feels as if he/she is watching a film. Beautiful
ISBN 978-1-144-76193-1, printed in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St. Ives plc.Copyright 1978 and first published in 1980.Nice writing from Pilcher and easy to read.List of characters:Mr and Mrs ArcherThomas, the Archers’ two-year-old grandsonHelga, Swedish au pair for Thomas.Jeanette Archer, Thomas’ mother who died in an airplane crash.Oliver Dobbs, Thomas’ father.Victoria Bradshaw, working at Sally Sharman clothing shop.Sally Sharman, owner of the shop.Henry Paley, Victoria’s stepfather.Mrs. Tingley, Victoria’s number 15 downstairs neighbour.Mr. Reggie and Mrs. Imogen Fairburn, friends of Victoria’s parents.John Dunbeath, employer of the Warburg Investment Corporation.Mrs. Robbins, cleaner of John’s apartment.Lisa, John’s ex wife in NY.Tania, John’s girlfriend who knows also the Fairburns.During a party, John is introduced to Victoria.Roddy Dunbeath, friend of Oliver and Jock’s brother.Jock Dunbeath, laird of Benchoile near Loch Muie.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο το είχα στη βιβλιοθήκη μου εδώ και αρκετό καιρό δώρο μιας καλής συναδέλφου από τη δουλειά η οποία είναι λάτρης της Rosamunde Pilcher.
Και φυσικά επειδή η Victoria δεν έπαψε ποτέ να έχει αισθήματα γι'αυτόν και να τον αγαπά τον δέχεται πάλι πίσω.Αρχικά είναι ευχάριστο το ανάγνωσμα εως ότου κάπου στη μέση άρχισα να ψιλοβαριέμαι από την εξαντλητική περιγραφή των τοπίων της Σκωτίας.
Σελίδα και κλάμα!Παρ' όλα αυτά το τέλος αν και πολύ προβλέψιμο τουλάχιστον αποζημιώνει θετικά τον αναγνώστη και είναι ο μοναδικός λόγος που έδωσα τρία αστέρια.
Oliver Dobbs shows up on the doorstep of Victoria Bradshaw one evening three years after their previous relationship.
Oliver has his 2yr old son Tom with him.
Together they take a trip north to Scotland to the home of Roddy Dunbeath – a writer Oliver knows and of whom Victoria is a fan.
They arrive two days after the funeral of Roddy’s brother Jock, laird of the manor.
Although uncomfortable about being there, Roddy encourages them to stay.
It’s a time of each learning about themselves and relationships, especially after John Donbeath arrives – nephew of Roddy and new laird of the manor.
I read this as an abridged audiobook and though the writing was very lyrical the heroine started out as a spineless ninny easily wooed with pretty words and heated glances.
This book was read by Kate Burton who does a beautiful job with the Irish brogue and made listening to the story a real pleasure.
I continued to have "issues" with the book heroine, Victoria, but I tend to prefer stronger heroines and Victoria was way too passive for my taste.
Her innocence and kind-hearted acceptance of Oliver's horrendous behavior and attitude annoyed the heck out of me.
It was somewhat understandable considering her need for love and connection but annoying all the same.
A reassuringly Pilcher-resque readI have loved Rosamund Pilcher's ever since borrowing "Coming Home" from my grandmother as a teenager. Wild Mountain Thyme delivers Pilcher's trademark beautiful description of the natural landscape- of Scotland this time though, rather than Cornwall. She also throws some old fashioned romance and a pinch of heartbreak and hint of tragedy. All in all a really satisfying read. If I had to make a negative remark about the book I would suggest that the closing line is a bit clichéd. However, this is just nitpicking because otherwise it is a highly enjoyable read.
Well written, the characters really well rounded so that you had feelings about them. Oliver- a writer, a cad, egotistical,self centred,charming, selfish, manipulative,with a mean streak.Victoria- unsure of herself, shy, easily charmed and manipulated to fall into line with his plans. The trip to Benchoile, meeting Roddy and John,caring for Tom and seeing Oliver in a different light changes Victoria and changes the outcome of their relationship. Beautifully descriptive of the lifestlye and and lands surrounding Benchoile.
The Shell Seekers will always be my favorite book by Pilcher, having said that I did enjoy Wild Mountain Thyme, which is set in Scotland. To be honest I found the protagonists in this book frustrating. Oliver Dobbs is a successful author, who is also egotistical to an unbelievable degree. Victoria loves Oliver, and wants only to be with him. The gorgeous descriptions of Scotland are what made this novel so good.
As in all Rosamunde Pilcher books, there is great scenic description, multiple family, multiple generation characters, and a love story. This was atypical book for her in all those aspects, but I didn't feel the closeness and connection to the characters in the way I have in other books she has written. They were all a little too flawed. There were ni characters that I would have liked to ask over for "tea and a bit of a tongue wag. Not a bad book, just not Rosamunde at her best.
My least favorite of all the Pilcher books that I have read so far! I could not stand Oliver and his actions and felt like the writing matched the weight of the situation. For a more complete review check out my blog, Rachael Reads.https://rachaelsbookshelf.wordpress.c...
The first 80 pages I fought reading this book. I love Rosamunde Pilcher's books, but this one was totally off her usual mark. I will long remember the Oliver Dobbs character & not fondly either. Since I was snowbound, I forced myself to stay with it! Story picked up & other characters showed who were more typical of Pilcher's characters. I do not recommend reading it.
Goo-ey of course, old fashioned in some respects and a bit weak at the end but good escapist reading; nice descriptions of Scottish country, village and home. A relaxing easy read and satisfying when that's what's wanted - Oliver is self centred and supposed to be; Victoria is passive and a follower - but I could accept that; John perhaps a bit too accomplished but likeable..
All I have to say that the protagonist is one hell of an idiotic girl, not 'intelligent' as Roddy has described her in this novel. 'Vulerable' as Oliver had describe pretty much sums the entire novel up right until the end. You'd think she changes as the story progresses, but nope she doesn't seem to grow up and latches onto the opinion of her from men.
Short but excellent.This book was great. Interesting and well written. Yesterday, I wrote a bad review of Pilcher's book "Sleeping Tiger" which was very disappointing for me, but I decided to try another one and am VERY glad I did. Now I will investigate more of her novels until I have read them all. Thank you!
I love everything by Ms Pilcher and they are fantastic re reads. Romantic and unashamedly sentimental, full of warmth and wonderful characters.
Enjoyable easy read. Working this month on reading books I have been given/loaned. Then I can return for Christmas!
I always enjoy Pilcher books because they immediately put you in this super cozy world that, by modern standards, feels slightly disconnected but in an outdated sort of way, when we didn't have immediate information at our fingertips.
I always desperately want to go live in an English or Scottish village during the winter while reading Pilcher.
Despite the back cover blurb, the story never seemed to actually focus on this female protagonist, Victoria.
Basically, unlike the other Pilcher books I've read, the female isn't a strong heroine figure; she's just kind of there as the token female figure necessary to the story.

This is one of Pilcher's shorter novels, written before her big breakthrough with The Shell Seekers.
Like most of her earlier works, the book is good but a bit rushed.
I always enjoy her stuff, but do wish this one had more substance to the story.
The writing is beautiful, often describing the landscape and homes in lush detail.
But the relationships between various individuals are a bit stunted, and she uses the dreaded insta-love.
Pilcher has a talent for capturing the kinds of life dilemmas and crossroads that pop up within families, and I love her language.
So a Mixed bag, this book.
I read this book in three sittings, not because I couldn't put it down but because I wanted it to be over as quickly as possible.
It is almost like reading the attempts of someone who is attending a creative writing class and the main focus of the task is description only, with nothing about creating a good novel.
Th story for that matter is ridiculous and the main character Victoria, infuriating and pathetic.
Would not recommend this book unless you are studying a creative writing class and have a similar "write descriptions" project.
But the descriptions are not even that compelling or enchanting.
