https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/939794.The_Expendable_Man
Hughes 1962 noir crime novel The Expendable Man features one Dr. Hugh Densmore who knows exactly what decision he would change.
Driving from the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles where he is a resident physician across the desert to Phoenix for a family wedding, Dr. Hugh, playing the part of mister nice guy, takes pity on a young girl hitchhiking way out in the desert, fifteen miles away from the nearest small town.In spite of knowing he shouldn’t risk it, aware of all the potential dangers, in his own mind at the time, Hugh did the right thing.
But if I’m careful, I think I can say something.It tells a story us the story of Hugh Densmore, a young doctor with an internship at U.C.L.A., who—in the summer of 1962—is driving through the New Mexico desert on his way to a niece’s wedding in Phoenix.
But then, about a quarter of the way through the novel, we learn one simple fact about Hugh which Dorothy Hughes has been withholding from her reader, and this fact makes us look at Hugh’s character and his dilemma from a different angle.
This is an incredibly prescient novel written at a time of simmering racial tension in the US (though sadly that's probably been true of every time in US history).
The prose has all the gleaming precision of poetry, which is not surprising given that Dorothy Hughes' first book was a volume of verse, part of the Yale Younger Poets series.
The noir-ish plot is pretty straightforward, but it's the X-ray focus on the characters and the unblinking exposition of the ugly racist undercurrents of nearly every aspect of social life that really make this book special.
Does that make you a good 'john' to frame for a murder?
In the case of Dr. Hugh Densmore, it does.This noir/mystery/thriller doesn't have any true twists or turns that make you think, 'hmmmm????', yet it will keep your attention all the way until the end.
As I thought William Styron did a good job of writing from the perspective of a black slave in 'Nat Turner', I think it's quite a feat for Hughes to write from the perspective of an African-American during the civil rights era and do it well.This book was written in the 1960's, but could've very well been written today.
Normally, he "knew better" than to stop for hitchhikers, but this time it's different -- leaving the young, teenaged girl at the side of the road just wasn't something his conscience isn't going to allow him to do:"He had sisters as young as this.
A taut, thoroughly convincing and highly atmospheric novel, The Expendable Man is a classic "wrongly-accused-man" story with a bit of a twist that adds an extra layer of reader tension when it dawns on you exactly what's going on.
Every reveal, every additional detail that Hughes affords the reader changed the context of the story and how I read this.
It is very much a story of telling you the facts, then changing one little thing, and suddenly the same facts appear different, more complex, more ...
The Expendable Man tells a story of oppression (in more ways than one as we learn throughout the story) taking place in broad daylight.
These glimpses might just be individual characters but they were there and if we have learned anything it is that it only takes a few good people to inspire others.
Anyone with a lick of brains, and certainly anyone who reads crime fiction understands that offering this girl a ride would be a really dumb thing to do.It is.
Suffice it to say that crimes will occur; Densmore will be the principal suspect, and he will find himself in a world of trouble.The book is set in Phoenix and as a resident of the Valley, it was fun to read Hughes' descriptions of the city in that era.
But to invite her into his car and then cart her all the way to Phoenix is simply asking for trouble, and this made it difficult for me to sympathize with him when that trouble inevitably developed.
Dated, frustrating, slow and dull, "innocent man framed" bull crap. Plus a "twist" which is painfully dated now. Condescending in an unknowingly superior, "preachy" way. Stupid plot events, clichéd characters, unlikely actions. I felt manipulated from page 10. Hated it.
A friend recommended this but there was no available copy at the library, so I checked out Hughes's first novel, The So Blue Marble, and read that while I waited for The Expendable Man to come in.
The So Blue Marble was a bizarre little mystery notable for its atmospheric creepiness and nearly unbearable sense of dread.
The story was silly and the whole thing didn't make too much sense, but its mood was so successfully disturbing that I enjoyed the book.If her first, 1940 novel demonstrated a knack for conveying profound unease and menace, 1963's The Expendable Man showed what a mature author could do with this ability.
What I will say about it is that it's been a while since I started reading a book where, within a few pages, I wished for nothing more than to be able to shut out all the annoyances of real life and just read it straight through start to finish.
Which leads me to ask the very strange question, is it possible for a book that is about race--and is much the stronger for it--to have a preoccupation with race that actually simultaneously weakens it?Unfortunately, again, I can't really get deep into it without spoilers, but here's a harmless example: all the black characters in the book have almost stereotypically white-sounding names like Drew or Nick or Steve* whereas all the white characters have unusual names.
Strange.*Not the actual names from the book.
It was a solid read.
I found it really authentic,and it was based on more protagonist's inner monologues than plots,which I found intriguing.
Here are some memorable lines;・He understood and he appreciated but he didn't tell her so.Because he couldn't 　　accept the intimacy which was rising between them.
He couldn't endure the knowing it must lead to nothing, no more than the finality of a good-bye, it's been fun knowing you.・The windows were painted black.Here and again on them were vivid scratches, as if the inmates had,in a sudden attack of claustrophobia,clawed a glimpse of a cleaner world outside.It was published in around 1965 and behind this novel was racial issues, which reminds me of the novel,A Time to Kill by John Grisham.
The famous "twist" has been done better, Charles Willeford's Pick-up for example, but not in such an emotionally and socially understanding way and for that reason alone it was worth NYRB republishing it.Another pick from the HRF Keating Crime & Mystery 100 Best Books list in which he praises her "twist" as integral to the whole conception of the book and how it happens in one swift sentence of dialogue before you even realise it's happened, completely changing the nature of what came before and the protagonist as one of those heroes you identify with; in doing so you face a fearsome insight in to man's inhumanity to man.
A split second decision and Dr Hugh Densmore knew that he would rue the day he stopped for a young woman on the side of the road.What I enjoyed about this novel was the plausibility of the story.
I think we've all made a decision on the spur of the moment - even though alarm bells are ringing but you ignore them and your decision comes back to bite you......big time.
There were a few twists that I didn't see coming at all.
A thought provoking story that offered a lot more to the reader than just a "classic noir" novel.
Hughes, author of The Expendable Man and the mother of noir mystery, gives us a marvelous book that tackles several social issues including racism in the south during the 1960's, abortion, police profiling, and socioeconomic privilege.The novel starts off with Hugh Densimore, a medical intern at UCLA, picking up a young female hitchhiker on his way to visit family in Phoenix.
The police immediately question Hugh and are set on pinning the crime on him.The book examines the impact of racism on Hugh.
Suffice to say that Hughes' revelation is partially a revelation because it shouldn't be one at all, and yet the dropping of one small fact changes everything you've read up to that point and contextualizes the rest of the novel in a far more meaningful way than your average 'wrong-man' scenario.
(In a good way, of course.) I'll also say that this is one of the best evocations I've read of Arizona since Betsy Thornton's High Lonesome Road (makes sense--Hughes lived in New Mexico), and it's particularly touching to read her descriptions of Phoenix on the verge of becoming the sprawling, overdeveloped, contentiously urban city that it is today.
Tough situations in some hard-crime novels are sometimes left a little unexamined due to the constraints of the telling, as in the classic "just the facts" approach.In The Expendable Man, 1963, there is a much deeper feel for the characters and the precise pitch of the drama.
Tempting to attribute that to the fact that the author is a woman, rather than, say, a male ex-cop or similar.
But that doesn't necessarily add up; what's true is the fact that this story is able to shift gears, roaring along at full speed, from the internal to the external, from the complex fears of the protagonist to the crushing realities of the underworlds he finds.
I would like to read a review of this when it was first published 50 odd years ago. A young intern is mixed up in a murder as a result of him naively giving a young female hitchhiker a ride. The doctor is guilty until proven innocence and he needs to take it upon himself to prove his innocence.I found it more disturbing as a comment on society than a mystery but I wonder how it was received at publication
noir usually has the patsie either as innocent-but-screwed, or hardon driven, or greedy, or devil may care, what have you.
and then said dupe gets all sideways and violence etc ensues.
dorothy hughes' noir is much more insidious, and psychological, and mysterious, though the very 1st sentence is a VERY big clue to what the evil is.
so the patsie/straightman picks up a woman teenage hitchhiker who turns out to be a cockelbur in the hair you just can't get out, and makes the dupe, guilty guilty guilty.
thanks nyrb for re-issue, as the presidency of the united states of am.
"When a man wants an evil, he will always find someone evil to supply him."An archetype of the wrong-guy-in-the-wrong-place-at-the-wrong time whodunit, Hughes stands out for the terseness and suddenness of her writing.
Plot points and natures simmer for whole chapters before enlightenment slaps you across your face like a fish; red herrings litter your wake; scales of bemused justice fall off your eyes; fish metaphors go too far.All in all, a fine novel.
I like Hughes' simple style and the sheer desperation of our wronged (?) protagonist, the young medical intern Hugh Densmore is a nice foundation for what unfolds: he picks up a sluttish teenager on the lam, hitchhiking, and then said naif-eyed trollop ends up dead.
Hugh done it?
Why Dorothy Hughes is not as acclaimed as Raymond Chandler, I do not know.
A completely different type of writer, I know, but every bit as good.
Her stories are pitch perfect, her characters almost impossibly real, as if she had a means to get inside the head of every person she's met randomly on the street or sat across from on a public bus.
And her unobtrusive way of describing place and time, and even the passage of time, is so complete it seems effortless.
When I'm not reading one of her books, I get a feeling almost of homesickness, like the longing you get for a place you've formed memories but never lived.
Even the sky at this moment was sand, reflection of the fading beige of the sun.”That sense of place continued right through the story, as did the fine quality of the writing.Hugh Densmore was a young doctor, travelling back home for a family wedding.He saw a hitchhiker standing by the road.
And the man who will struggle to clear his name, and to bring the real murderer to justice.The story plays out in the way that these stories generally do, but there are many things that make this particular story so very fine.Time and place were captured perfectly.
This would have been a great novel for Hitchcock to film, sort of like The Wrong Man with overtones of racism and police intransigence.
Hughes's The Expendable Man is white knuckle for most of its 250 pages, especially when it seems that both the police and the actual murderer are after him.As far as I know, Hughes's last novel (1963) has never been turned into a film, but if it were, it would be great material for one.
If THE EXPENDABLE MAN was just a noir novel it’d be good.
It’s well plotted, with believable characters, and follows the innocent-wronged trope that drives much such narratives.
But there’s a trick at the core of this book, not a gimmick, but a turn of perspective that takes the story down a different path, one both familiar to the genre but made unique and more substantial because of that revelation.
Hughes uses this switch to not only add another layer of anxiety to the proceedings, but a social conscious that provides a heft that otherwise might just be procedural.
Dr Hugh Densmore acts as a good Samaritan and picks up a hitchhiker in the middle of the desert. Iris clearly is hiding things from him, her lies stand out in their journey to Phoenix. Once there Hugh thinks her is rid of her, however when a young girls's body is found in a canal Hugh's unease heightens.A must read, crime noir from one of the greatest writers of the genre. Filled with dread, unease and characters you care about, this novel should be read by all.
4.5
Creeping uneasiness for 250 pages. One of those books where you try to yell at the protagonist not to go into the basement. This was a good one.
If I were rating books entirely on how much they altered the way I see things, this would get five stars plus. Writing about it is nearly impossible without spoiling what was for me a mind-altering revelation on page 55; unfortunately, once that was absorbed, reflected on, and accepted with astonishment, the book turned into a fairly routine innocent-man-in-jeopardy story with great psychological insight, but few additional surprises. I will definitely be reading the better known novels of this now-neglected noir writer of the 1950's.
Interesting twist on noir with an interesting (and unfortunately still timely) message about the injustice of the law against people of color. Can't say I was down with the diatribes against abortion but I guess that's to be expected based on when it was written.
The Expendable man is a breathtaking taut 1960's thriller, using a well known plot - that of the wrongly accused man.
But where I think Dorothy B Hughes novel differs from other similiar type novels is her brilliant socialogical exploration of the difficult times she was writing in.
The sense of time and place is wonderful, especially set against the backdrop of the searing heat of an Arizona summer.
Hugh Densmore - a young doctor from L.A picks up a young girl hitchiker on his way to Pheonix for a family wedding.
Later he is accused of her murder.
It’s a strange little noir, partly because Hughes plays with the reader’s expectations by waiting sixty or so pages to reveal critical information about the character that drives much of plot.
The book tackles a few of the big social issues of its day, but in a way that feels so organic to the characters and the story.
I was going to say how impressive it is that 1963 murder mystery concerned with race, class, and women’s rights feels so relevant in 2013, but man .
