https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35120549-i-am-not-a-serial-killer
My reaction when a third of the way through the book “IT” happened was something like… For those of you that have read the book, you know EXACTLY what I am talking about. For everyone else, let me explain as best I can without any spoilers. Our story begins in a small town with a wonderful introduction to John Wayne Cleaver. John is 15 years old boy who is obsessed with serial killers. This obsession is the result of he himself having many of the traits and characteristics of a serial killer and
In addition to learning about John, the central plot of the book involves the discovery that an actual serial killer is on the loose in John’s small town.
Unfortunately, IT did happen and when IT happened, IT kinda ruined it for me…Oh well shIT happens!!!P.S. For those of you who have requested to know what IT is, here you go...(view spoiler)[ The serial killer loose in the town turns out to be a DEMON which comes completely out of left field since the book was reading like a straight YA crime thriller (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Quite possibly the best book ever written.
What if a serial killer...doesn't want to become a murderer?John Wayne Cleaver knows he has all the hallmarks of a serial killer - he likes to stalk people, hurt animals and fantasizes about killing friends and family. BUT before you turn away John is doing his absolute best to curb all killer-instincts AND he has a great family to support him. It's a crazy-good mixture of familial love and homicidal urges wrapped up in one book.  Fear is a ... it's a weird thing, when you think about it. Peopl
What if a serial killer...doesn't want to become a murderer?John Wayne Cleaver knows he has all the hallmarks of a serial killer - he likes to stalk people, hurt animals and fantasizes about killing friends and family.
People are only afraid of other things, they're never afraid of themselves.
Following his rules or allowing himself to indulge his killer tendencies and hunt down a murderer?
He doesn't know what's worse, that it's his mom whose facilitating this girl's interaction with a potential serial killer or the fact that he likes her back.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
In actuality, this book had very little gore and it read like someone did research on serial killers, found out about the Macdonald Triad and then just wrote a book about it.
Without spoilers, I'll just say that I thought I was reading a book about a serial killer in reality.
There were just too many "no way" type moments for me in this story--the one that kept popping up (much to my dismay) was the fact that John simultaneously shovels snow several times a week yet also bikes everywhere (even to a lake outside town).
Ever since Hannibal Lector flirted with Clarice Starling by telling her about his favorite recipes, it seems like every other thriller features some kind of deranged but brilliant serial killer.
Jeff Lindsay’s Dexter series put a unique twist on the notion of the serial killer.
(Or at least he did until he wrote the utterly crappy Dexter in the Dark.) Now Dan Wells is taking a new approach to the concept.John Wayne Cleaver is a teen-age boy who lives with his mother at the funeral home she runs with her twin sister.
However, John will find out that this killer is worse than even his deranged mind can imagine.The first third of his book had me completely intrigued.
I wanted to read this book because of my fascination with serial killers and the intriguing slant in the main character's relationship with himself.While reading, I was put off by Wells' writing style.
It came off as juvenile in that he writes as though he doesn't trust his readers to figure out fairly obvious things for themselves.
It's muddled in redundancy.All of this I could have put aside, and tried to, for the sake of the still intriguing concept and somewhat likable main character.
Suffice it to say that it became very obvious fairly quickly that this book wasn't one I would care for in the slightest.
You are evil, said myself. You are Mr. Monster. You are nothing. You are me. Well well well...what an odd slice of fun this was. Simplistic and understated, this book really doesn't try to be anything other than what it says it is, making for not only a fun, easy read, but a very touching one, as well. It's not easy to read about a diagnosed sociopath...well, at least not for the average person. For me? It felt more authentic and real. I became entwined and engrossed with this character in the
"So you have coincidental links to two serial killers," he said.
I can now see why some people didn't like the direction this novel took, but I actually, after my initial shock, LOVED IT!
John would not be a likable character to read about had we not gotten his odd rationalizations of the goings on around him or the way he views human flaws, such as love and loyalty.
So while you're saying all of these stupid, boring things, I'm imagining what it would be like to cut you open and see what you've got in there."
I think my wife is a serial killer waiting to be unleashed on the world.I had not heard of this novel but ran across a Powell’s Books author reading late last month by Dan Wells.
His father is Sam Cleaver, making him the Son of Sam. His last name is a tool for cutting meat.Interestingly enough, the town John lives in has a new killer hanging around, killing people and leaving their bodies lying about with parts missing.
Wells did a great job breaking down the mind of a killer and really leaves you mentally cheering for the 15 year old sociopath that is the main character.
Very nice, Mr. Dan Wells.
Very nice, indeed.First Impressions:1.
Slow at first, but after 100 *BAM*!
What I'd like to call a 'double tap twist'.
Not one, but two twists in the span of 2 pages!2.
I really enjoyed the therapy sessions between John and Dr. Neblin.3.
The plot was a general 'good'.
The twist made things more interesting.4.
Book focuses on character analysis of John's character.
VERY interesting, reading from the mind of a sociopath.
You really wouldn't know John's a sociopath.5.
I learned a lot about serial killers.Very good, and different read!
I'm still pretty floored about the twist.
"No soy un serial killer" fue para mí un gran descubrimiento, definitivamente es de aquellos libros por los que no daba mucho, pero me terminó sorprendiendo de una manera positiva.
Los crímenes en esta novela están perfectamente construidos y detallados, como para revolverle las tripas a quienes estén dispuestos a adentrarse en los avernos de un adolescente obsesionado con los asesinos seriales, y que alimenta su morbo ayudando a embalsamar cuerpos en la empresa fúnebre que lleva su madre.
(view spoiler)[ Otra cosa que me gustó mucho fue el giro paranormal que tomó la trama.
Definitivamente voy a continuar con esta saga para ver qué me deparan los siguientes títulos.
«La noción de que yo fuera un sociópata no era nueva para mí; sabía desde hacía mucho tiempo que no conectaba con los otros. No les entendía y ellos tampoco me comprendían a mí, y fuera cual fuese el lenguaje emocional que utilizara, aprenderlo parecía estar fuera de mi alcance.» En I Am Not A Serial Killer nos encontramos con una historia realmente perturbadora y extraña en la que tenemos como protagonista a John Wayne Cleaver,un chico de 15 años que a pesar de que aparenta ser normal está en
En I Am Not A Serial Killer nos encontramos con una historia realmente perturbadora y extraña en la que tenemos como protagonista a John Wayne Cleaver,un chico de 15 años que a pesar de que aparenta ser normal está en constante lucha con sí mismo para dejar de lado sus pensamientos más oscuros que lo definen como un probable asesino en serie.
Cuando conoce la verdadera identidad del asesino no sabe qué hacer: si permitir que siga asesinando o permitir que su lado más oscuro escape de su interior y matar al asesino de una vez por todas.Madre mía, la historia es muy buena.
1.5 stars Despite the obvious similarity to Jeff Lindsay's  Dexter series and the overwhelming feeling of revulsion from a YA-ish novel wallowing in the realm of real-life serial killers, I still was somewhat intrigued by Dan Wells' I Am Not a Serial Killer and plowed through the the first 100 pages like a starving man breaking a fast with an Italian BMT from Subway......but then realized that the delicious sandwich I'd been nom-noming on was made of inedible food stuff.
Cleaver (a mortuary owner's son in the tiny town of Conway...somewhere in the Midwest US) is obsessed with serial killers.
Who doesn't like to be freaked out of their fuzzy socks?
He has sociopathic tendencies...so think of a person who's devoid of empathy.
Basically, John freaked me out.
"He wants to be a good person, but fears he is a sociopath, and for years he has suppressed his dark side through a strict system of rules designed to mimic 'normal' behaviour." No, no!
I really like seeing different angles in books, and this showed me a WHOLE new angle I'd never seen a book deal with.
John Green uses it.
That's what freaky books are for.
In order to find and destroy the monster, John must let down his wall of rules and let his own monster out.Wells does such a good job putting you into John's head that you can root for him even while you're disturbed by him.
He's a good kid, but I certainly wouldn't wish any girl to be his girlfriend or even his mom to be his mom.
If you are at all fascinated by sociopaths, serial killers, morticians, unconventional protagonists, or a little gore in your thrillers, than you'll enjoy this book.
The thing is, the book kept hinting that this thing was about to happen long before it actually did, and this actually bugged me, because I would be far more surprised and excited about the turn the events took if I hadn't expected it.One thing I always praise in stories is the effort some authors actually put into writing them.
It showed how love can bring out someone's best self, and how it can truly affect a person in so many cases.The only thing I didn't like about this book was the ending, as I felt there was no cliffhanger, and for some time had no motivation to read the rest.
He also has no problem with dead bodies as his family owns a mortuary and they live just above it.Suddenly, a string of murders begin showing up in the small community of Clayton County and as John explains it to his "friend" Max, it's like when you're favorite comic book author shows up in town, he's almost elated.
And who better to stop a sociopath than another sociopath right?I never thought I'd be laughing to myself this much over such a creepy subject, but I Am Not a Serial Killer is told with a proper blend of seriousness and plenty of jokes...about killing and whatnot.
Ironically, I had a hard time putting this book down, and finished it in what is (for me) record time (three days).Wells creates a main character that is simultaneously disturbing, sympathetic and likable.
What amazed me even more than that was Wells' ability to forge the character in such a plausible way that I ended up seeing things through the eyes of John Cleaver: sociopath.I'll admit that there's some gore in the book, but I give credit to Wells for avoiding gore merely for shock value.
Wells' book is supremely believable (even with some semi-fantasy elements), intelligent, and enjoyable.My hearty congratulations to the author.
Let’s see if I can work out a rating by the time I stop writing out my feelings here.“I think that fate wants me to become a serial killer.”John Wayne Cleaver is a teen doing his best not to murder the cretins that surround him.
But unlike most killers (besides Dexter), he knows murder is wrong and he creates rules for himself that will prevent him from acting out on his urges to slice people up like stir-fry.
I thought I was reading one thing and then it turned into another thing and I wasn’t sure I liked where it was heading but in the end I guess it worked out because I didn’t quit it.
Ugodno sam iznenadjen jer je drugacija od bilo cega sto sam citao u posljednje vrijeme. Brzo se cita i nije nimalo dosadna. Mix paranormalnog i trilera je odlicno uklopen plus na to sve dodati psihopatskog mladica koji svoju psiho stranu zove: Mr. Monster... fantasticno. Radujem se nastavcina...Ocjena: Nesto izmedju 4 i 5., ali da ne cjepidlacim, neka bude 5 jer sam se pravo dobro proveo.
How has it taken me so long to find and read this book!?
Decided to try this book as it was suggested by my fiance purely on the fact that he found the title amusing.
I haven't read writing this griping and easy to understand in a long time.
John Wayne Cleaver is one of the most fascinating characters I've stumbled upon in a long time!
He isn't the typical good or bad boy I'm used to reading as he's somewhere trying to balance who he is.
Honestly I think everyone needs to give this book a try.
This is a must read series for me now!
2016 Reading Challenge 27#: Un libro de misterio que involucre un asesinato Este libro es tan bueno por muchas razones. Una de ellas es que el protagonista es un sociópata, y yo amo estar en la mente de esas personas que no tienen corazón.  Normalmente los asesinos en serie son, en realidad casi siempre, esclavos de sus compulsiones. Matan porque tienen que hacerlo y no pueden evitarlo.  John no es capaz de sentir como los demás, por no decir que no es capaz de sentir en lo absoluto. Él, se esf
Matan porque tienen que hacerlo y no pueden evitarlo.
John no es capaz de sentir como los demás, por no decir que no es capaz de sentir en lo absoluto.
Él, se esfuerza por fingir que es una persona normal, cosa en la que fracasa miserablemente, ya que todos se alejan de él e incluso está obligado a visitar a un terapeuta porque está obsesionado con los asesinos en serie.Dada mi fascinación con los libros insanos y más que todo con los asesinos, lo disfruté de principio a fin.
Supongo que el que se haya propuesto como meta detener a otro asesino (aunque este no fuera humano) fue el aliciente perfecto para desatar a "Mr. Monster", y siempre he encontrado fascinante la naturaleza de un psicópata y cómo este tiene que aprender conductas para no sentirse ajeno a la realidad y adoptarlas cuando sea necesario frente al resto del mundo aun cuando estos comportamientos empáticos sean totalmente ajenos a él.
Hizo lo mejor que pudo y, a grandes rasgos, lo logró.En resumidas cuentas, este libro tiene la combinación perfecta: asesinos seriales, poca censura y escenas viscerales (ups), además de un hombre como protagonista, que es casi la única manera en que prefiera la narración en primera persona.
He's nice, unassuming, Battlestar Galactica fan, so not unlike most of the people I know, really.
But it turns out that Dan has intimate knowledge of embalming techniques and is a walking serial killer encyclopedia.
A fascinating book.
A book that asks the question, if you thought you had the potential to become a serial killer, what would you do?
But sadly for John, there's a real serial killer in town.
It's a moral puzzle more so than a murder mystery, especially since the murderer and their motive is revealed fairly early on, since they aren't the focus of the book, John is.
He has a very dark inside, but he's desperately trying to do the right thing.
I will for sure read the next one...assuming John doesn't give in.
I didn't get that so when a certain scene happened it took a bit to process the action.So if you like darker books, I'd highly recommend this.A few of my favorite quotes "You are alway in control of your own destiny, and you are always the one who makes your own choices--no one else."and the quote that really sums up the whole book for me, "So when a cowboy kills somebody you don't even blink, because it happens every day.
That's fascinating, Mom."Just like this book.
Well that was not what I expected! But still very good. I have a weakness for serial killers.
John Wayne Cleaver ist 15 Jahre alt, ganz offiziell ein Soziopath, gelegentlicher Bettnässer, liebt es Tote einzubalsamieren und ist definitiv der Dämonenjäger meines Herzens!
The triad was first identified by J.M. Macdonald in "The Threat to Kill", a 1963 paper in the American Journal of Psychiatry.The triad links animal cruelty, obsession with fire setting, and persistent bed-wetting past the age of five to violent behaviors, particularly homicidal behavior.[2] Although other studies have not found statistically significant links between the triad of violence and violent offenders, many serial killers exhibited these behaviors during childhood.
consisted of chronic bedwetting, firesetting, and torturing small animals.Further studies have suggested that these behaviors are often the product of parental neglect, cruelty or trauma, and that such events in a person's childhood can result in "homicidal proneness".
Popsugar 2018 reading challenge: BÁSICO9. Un libro acerca de un villano o antihéroe - En varios niveles, este libro es perfecto para esta categoríaUn libro YA que más bien parece dirigido a chicos de entre 13 y 16 años, pero que disfruté bastante. Un libro rápido de leer, que tiene una trama "interesante" y que me llamó mucho a atención. El plot twist me pareció bastante bueno y sentí que conectaba muy bien con la historia.Los detalles negativos que le veo es que es terriblemente repetitivo (Sí
El plot twist me pareció bastante bueno y sentí que conectaba muy bien con la historia.Los detalles negativos que le veo es que es terriblemente repetitivo (Sí John, ya entendimos tu obsesión, no hace falta que se repita 15 veces por capítulo) y siento que hay muchas cosas que se manejan de forma muuuuy general/ligera respecto ciertos detalles psicológicos, peeero como dije, es un libro que pretende entretener, así que no vamos a encontrar un manual de diagnostico ¿verdad?
(por cierto, si sintieron la necesidad, no se auto-evalúen con lo que dice el libro porfa)En general me resultó muy entretenido y seguro que continuaré la saga.Para el resto de la serie de 
Surprisingly good...With all the mixed reviews I've read, I wasn't expecting to enjoy it so much.John Wayne Cleaver is a TEENAGER.
His father has all but disappeared from his life.John Wayne Cleaver is a SOCIOPATH.
He is obsessed with serial killers and knows exactly what he is, but he makes himself follow some self-imposed rules to keep from becoming a killer himself.John Wayne Cleaver is the only one who knows the serial killer in their town is actually a DEMON.
Es muy ameno y se lee muy rápido, cosa que me ha gustado mucho, ya que odio que los libros se pongan muy pesados.La historia empezó bastante bien hasta que aparecieron fenómenos sobrenaturales.
Sé que no me estoy explicando bien xD pero espero que la gente que haya leído el libro si me entienda.Me hubiera gustado que se hubiera descrito mejor a los personajes.
Veo muy poca profundidad en la historia y en los personajes y no es algo que me guste sabiendo que es una trilogía.El protagonista me gusta, pero no he podido conectar con él casi nunca, algo positivo, ya que el prota es un sociópata.También tengo la sensación de que es una historia un poco para adolescentes y a mí se me ha quedado algo "infantil".
