https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7497897-radical
This includes: 1) praying for the whole world, with a focus on asking God to raise up men and women to bring the gospel to the unreached people groups; 2) reading the Bible all of the way through; 3) sacrificially giving to the poor and needy through the local church; 4) serving in an unfamiliar cultural context; and lastly, 5) seeking to work with a local church to bring community to those who do not have it.
Lastly, he is powerful when speaking about the need for churches to not merely confess faith in God but to demonstrate their reliance upon the Spirit through prayer and trust.
Jesus says, “No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit....” Both men in this passage wanted to follow Jesus, but they loved something else more than God. They have the same problem as the Rich Young Ruler, but with different idols - yet David only discusses the one pertaining to money, as if that tells the whole story.
He would love for us to spend our lives ridding ourselves of material things, when our true idol is something else completely, and we'll never address it because we're too busy being "Radical" about money.
He says going to a mega-church on Sunday morning and giving a few dollars to international missions is an insufficient expression of the gospel.
However, Platt then spends the rest of the book talking about a "gospel" I don't see in the scripture at all, and encouraging God's people to fulfill a tiny version of the Great Commission.
Based on this book, Platt has an understanding of the gospel that goes something like this:1.
God hates you and everyone else who ever lived from Adam on, and will carry out divine vengeance on everyone's eternal soul.2.
Full review: http://bookwi.se/radical-taking-back-...Short review: I think this is one of those books that lots of people will read and many people will not do anything about.
That is unfortunate, this is a call to live a life like what Christ has called us to.
There are five specific suggestions that are in the last chapter and most people will not do one or two let alone all five.I say this fully aware that I might be in the same boat.
But reading books like this can inspire us to really seek God and do what he is asking us to do to reach the world.
We are God's plan.
Platt misses the radical nature of a life of boring Christian faithfulness, and sees no middle ground between the life of a first-century evangelist and the american dream.If God flooded the church with more people heeding Platt's call, much good would be done, but with such a short-sighted vision, it would be temporary at best.
He doesn't appear to have a category for the faithful father who spends his life working to provide his children with a bed, food, and a college education (all things which Platt sees as good, and not opposed to the radical living he is talking about), who gives faithfully to his Church, and saves enough to enable his children to do the same.
At first I felt like, "I am SOOO sorry that I am a middle class American Christian, which automatically makes me somehow less of a Christian than someone in the Chinese or Indian underground church movements." (Read sarcasm.) That is probably a wrong response, but I've been feeling like that type of message has been coming from a lot of angles.
So, I do think if this book is read by a Christian who really hasn't thought about these things, it would be life changing and helpful and radical to their lifestyle.
There are so many people preaching to the American Christian church about the physical needs of others in the rest of the world.
Full review is here;http://christianmissionaryuk.blogspot...
Platt brings up some interesting points here and there, and overall, I can't say that what he's saying is wrong, per se, because what he majors on in the book is devotion to God's commands, world evangelism, and sacrificial giving.
One of the biggest problems with this book is that the author points to the Scriptures as something to do in order to do and be right by God. Now granted, God's word to us is for us to obey, but only as it relates to our relationship with Christ.
One of the things I appreciated about the criticism was one questions raised: Would people who really loved this book agree with Paul's words, "and to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your hands."?
What I appreciated the most about this book were the solid questions that he asked or the things he called us to really consider.
It is true that this not the best written book in the world, but it is hard to dislike Platt's genuineness and eagerness to be faithful to the gospel in the mega-church context he found himself in.2.
This book ends with a challenge to for one year to: pray for the entire world, read the entire Bible, sacrifice money for a specific purpose, spend time in another context, and to commit one's life to a multiplying community.
This is a great book to get someone thinking globally, about caring for those in need, about evangelism and world missions.
In the beginning, Platt offers some wonderful criticisms of American Christianity, which he argues is often practiced within the sheltered context of privilege with an overemphasis on prosperity and comfort ala the American Dream.
While I don't want to discount the great work that missionaries do, I will assert that it is easier to get less privileged and under-educated people to agree with your beliefs (especially when you present them with desperately-needed supplies and services) than it would be to convert socioeconomic peers.I should also add that the 'evangelism is all-important' theology behind this book does not sit well with me, nor do I believe that God condemns all those who have never heard the Good News and/or were raised in other faiths.In short, I'm grateful for the ways in this book challenged by own thinking, but I came away bothered by the patronizing and privileged brand of work Platt recommends.
This is a very thought provoking book asking each Christian to take a look at their lifestyle and ask themselves are they living the American dream or the radical Christian life. This book gave me a lot of questions to ponder and some challenges to seriously pray about.
This book has provoked me to deep thought. Am I living for the temporary or for the eternal? For myself or God? It has spurred me on to deeper living and a deeper commitment to the spreading of the Gospel!! I recommend this book to all of my brothers and sisters in Christ!
"Or we can take an honest look at the Jesus of the Bible and dare to ask what the consequences might be if we really believed him and really obey him."By and large, he writes, the church in America is choosing the former rather than the latter, pursuing the American dream instead of radically following Jesus.This is a surprising book coming from the pastor of a megachurch in suburban America.
I would expect something more like "How Jesus Can Give You Everything You Want!!"Platt is pastor of a 4,000-member church in suburban Birmingham, Ala., and even the church's name reeks of affluence: "The Church at Brook Hills." Yet he doesn't take it easy on the wealthy.
Also, the author is a pastor at a mega church, and while he points to some changes he and his church have made, it's kind of hard to take his admonitions seriously when all he is asking is for us to realize that we can worship without a slide show and to go on a mission trip once a year.
He does give a few more radical examples, but skims along not asking really hard questions and not seeming to give much of a focus on a living experience of Christ guiding us day by day.
Not very challenging and there were points when I had to work hard not to throw the book across the room.
While I appreciate some intentions, a desire to think more seriously about the poor, attack the idolatry of the American dream (which ends with dog eat dog) and remove the self from the center of his theology, Platt sums up a lot of what I really don't like in Evangelicalism and I expect irritates many unbelievers.
Platt wants both and all the guilt that no unbeliever or believer should go through.*God as Gasoline: Platt runs through all the cliched forms of speaking about God being our power instead of relying on our own strength.
I started reading this book based on several people recommending it to me.
While Platt does a great job of highlighting the materialism and affluence we live in, I had some issues as to how Platt seemed to present his personal convictions as convictions everyone should have.
Throughout the book, there were many instances where it felt like he was trying to "guilt" people to doing what he thought would be the most Christian way of giving radically, generously, and sacrificially, but not taking into account the fact that some people are called to be good stewards of what God has given them.
We, American Christians, are not entitled to the wealth of resources at our fingertips and, if we aren't faithful stewards of what we've been given, have not counted the cost of following Jesus.I'm surprised to hear this from a mega-church pastor in an age when most American mega-church pastors are preaching a health and wealth prosperity.Negative: I wish Platt had gone further.
For those working among the urban poor (like myself), you've probably already counted the cost to follow Jesus and have some value for simplicity.
Lots of wonderful stories, anecdotes and exegesis that call us to move away from lukewarm comfortable christianity that seems to permeate so much of American Christianity into more of a radical (biblical) one.
I would have also loved for him to point us to the radical Christ more, the One who left his comfort zone to enter our hostile world; the One who broke the bank to make us His treasure!
Unless you show me a radical Christ to behold, I cannot become radical on my own.
What you have held as the standard for Christianity will be turned on it's head.
The standards you held will be lifted to a new level and that level brings a freedom that you will be excited to have.This is one of those books that as I read I find myself getting excited!
If you are ready to jump out of the stagnant luke warm water and into something hot and fresh, If you are ready to be consumed by Christ and fully surrender to His will - this is the book to read.
I do my reviews in the form of a letter, which is why they are written like this.Dear David Platt, Wow. This is the first nonfiction book that I have given five stars.
The way you write about what Jesus commanded us is convicting.
Jesus truly did want us to give up everything to follow him, and our main goal really IS to preach the gospel.
Thank you for writing this to wake up the American church.
Thank you for being brave enough to seek out the Jesus of the Bible.
And thank you for writing with so much passion and truth.
I really wish that for someone who says we must glorify God in all that we do, that he would follow his own advice in his writing style.
That chapter alone makes reading the book worthwhile.
He finally answered many, but not all, of my questions there.Truthfully, I would have a hard time recommending this book to "anyone." I never figured out who Platt was writing to.
In his eyes, all American Christians are failing to follow Christ.
So one would think this book is written to a naive Christian, but then I'm afraid most of the book would go over their heads.
The author David Platt covers a topic that I have been hoping someone would would write about for a long time!
He talks about the complacency of the church today and contrasts it with the passionate churches in other countries suffering from persecution and ready to die for Christ.
Our churches today don't have people that are radical followers of Jesus.
Radical needs to be a wake-up call for many churches today!
He means: You won't always like it, and though the world will use you, persecute you, mock you, and misuse you; follow me.
Following Christ isn't just a trivial, everyday thing; it requires a radical faith!
Great book. I thought his assessment of American Christianity was rather accurate and convicting personally. I may not agree with all of his conclusions or methods, but his message (discipling all nations with the gospel) needs to be remembered in our churches. I know I needed this book.
Read it. Now.
Not so much.The American Dream is what I would call a "secular religion" of which Platt rightly calls us to abandon, but Platt exchanges this "secular religion" for a "religious religion" and not the Gospel.Let me explain."But if Jesus is who he said he is, and if his promises are as rewarding as the Bible claims they are, then we may discover that satisfaction in our lives and success in the church are not found in what our culture deems most important but in radical abandonment to Jesus." ~Platt p3"'Anyone who does not carry his cross and follow me cannot be my disciple.' Now this is taking it to another level.
Sharing the life of Christ" (96)."Disciple making involves inviting people into a larger community of faith where they will see the life of Christ in action and experience the love of Christ in person" (97).We often listen to sermons, read books, etc.
Begin to think, "How can I listen to His Word so that I am equipped to teach this Word to others?" (102)Discipling or Disinfecting--"Disinfecting Christians from the world involves isolating followers of Christ in a spiritual safe-deposit box called the church building and teaching them to be good..." (104).
The problem is not that Christians aren’t familiar with the gospel that Platt presents, the problem is, as Nietzsche said, “Even the most courageous among us only rarely has the courage to face what he already knows.” We all need the courage (perhaps faith is a better word) to be as radical as Jesus demands.
Platt’s thesis is simply that “Christ followers in American churches have embraced values and ideas that are not only unbiblical but that actually contradict the gospel.” American evangelicalism has become a curious amalgam of biblical Christianity, jingoistic patriotism, and bourgeois capitalism.
The writer is taking Jesus seriously when He said to “take up your cross and follow me.” With such an emphasis on tearing down the idols that keep modern Christians from following this command, it is no wonder that Platt is being accused of moralizing or socializing the Gospel.
Platt seems to give the reader the impression that our big churches with expensive programs and millions of dollars of wasted money would be better invested in outreach around the world.
Maybe its time for modern American Christianity to put down the American Dream and take up a cross and follow Christ.
Similar to Rich Christians, which I eventually abandoned, this book was very convicting, but also very anxiety inducing since I tend to think I am not really at the stage in life where I can devote large resources of time and energy to unwieldy problems like world hunger.
He suggested to spend one year: 1) praying for the entire world, specifically for the church all over the world (and gave a helpful resource, www.operationworld.org); 2) read through the entire word; 3) sacrifice your money for a specific (gospel-oriented) purpose (such as by setting a cap on your expenses); 4) spend your time in another context, i.e., spend a week outside your city making the gospel known; and 5) commit your life to a multiplying community, which I understood to mean be intentional with discipleship.
