https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/639864.Autobiography_of_a_Yogi
It was a mistake to pick it up in the first place.I absolutely fail to understand how learned, intelligent people can like this book so much.
Even if we leave the miracles out of the discussion for a moment, which is pretty difficult considering that they appear in the book at the rate of at least one per page, what IS the message that is hidden in this treasure of a book?Before you berate me for being close-minded, I do understand that there is a wonderful world outside of science.
I appreciate beauty and art and wonder.
This has become my favorite book and since reading it, I have been reading and fully immersed in other books by Yogananda. Everyone would benefit by reading this book with an open mind, no matter what religious or spiritual beliefs you have, or even if you have no belief at all. Everything is possible! I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Autobiography-...
If anyone wants to become invisible or fly, they should go, not to a Yoga teacher, but to David Copperfield.I am amazed that people in the West still seem to like this book.
I can understand people being inspired by Yogananda's profound love of God which is so transparent in this book, and which did not fail to move me, but I would like to make my own stand for reason in following the path of Yoga.
Written with supreme confidence, there is an exceptional clarity of thought that runs throughout this book which will appeal to a man who's kept his mind open to possibilities beyond the realm of the usual.
Anyway, the text of the book is peppered with miracles that will sound bizarre and will blow your mind wide open.
He woos the scientific man by defining the subtle laws at work behind the extraordinary events we term as miracles couched in scientific terms such as the theory of relativity.
The book is certainly worth reading for a peek into world-views that aren't strictly scientific.
Life-altering read.
Of all the books by and about spiritual leaders that I have read, this is the one I come back to again and again. Paramhansa Yogananda does not come from ego or judgment when he writes about his spiritual experience. He is not above feeling emotions such as grief and joy, nor does he believe that emotions are something to be surmounted or tamed. This is the only "saint" I have ever been able to digest and trust.
This is another of my favorite books and one that greatly influenced my life as well.I think the Yogis (and Yoginis!) of India hold a lot of secrets for humanity...ancient knowledge if you will...So I loved reading this particular book and learning some powerful insights...As a footnote, this was Steve Jobs' favorite book and the only book he ever downloaded to his iPad...
acted, or if you had a lot of frustration with the numerous holes and contradictions in the Bible, as I did, this book will be a breath of fresh air.
Yogananda has several books where he talks about what Christ says and meant as portrayed in the Bible, where unfortunately he is often misquoted or poorly translated, if the quotes aren't outright fabrications.
Yogananda is completely honest, clear and direct, and he met so many incredible people it's mind-blowing.
India has an incredibly rich spiritual tradition.
I can't say enough good things about this book!
Autobiography of a Yogi is the autobiography of a spiritual leader, Paramahansa Yogananda, one of the most well-known Indian yogi-swamis of all times.
The book begins with his childhood, in a Bengali family, to his various encounters with the famous spiritual masters of the time (his own guru being one of them), to finally becoming a monk, establishing Yoga centers throughout the world, and introducing Kriya Yoga teachings to the west for the first time.
Kriya Yoga is an ancient Yoga system which “Krishna gave millenniums ago to Arjuna; and was later known to Patanjali, and to Christ, St. John, St. Paul, and other disciples” and was later revived for use in modern times.I liked this book for some personal reasons.
Last year I finally bought a used copy and last month I began eagerly to read the life story of the man who brought Kriya Yoga to the attention of the Western world.Unfortunately, my eagerness did not last long enough to get me past the two hundred page mark.
Yogananda shares his life story and how rebellious he was as a teenager, wanting more than anything to become one with God. He ran away from home more than once: trying to get to the Himalayan mountains to become a hermit sage one year, visiting many known saints and gurus looking for the one who would become his guide.
A couple of them deal with the spiritual side of yoga as well as the physical.Most of these books are great sources of information and thought.This biography?
Yogananda was a yogi in India who was divinely inspired to come to the States.
He started his “Self-Realization Fellowship” in California, which supposedly teaches all the secret “Kriyas” that transformed Yogananda’s life.That much is clearly factual (although the divinely inspired bit might be an exaggeration).
Yogananda talks about Christ and Krishna in the same sentence, suggesting that all religions are really the same.If you want an unusual read full of miracles, go for this book.
Supposedly countless people have been transformed by this book.
The "spirituality" he brought to America was merely a continuation of the sanitized and de-racinated version "Sanatana Dharma" (AKA "Hinduism") brought to America by Swami Vivekananda, that it bore very little resemblance to what happened (and still happens) in India, and that it was also a further development of Emersonian enchantment with the Bhagavad Gita.Moreover, if one reads the book closely, Yogananda's teacher, Yukteshwar, asked him to write a biography of his teacher, Lahari Mahasya.
Instead, Yogananda wrote an autobiography filled with grand tales.Finally, Kriya Yoga is an ancient and authentic discipline that takes years to master, as its secrets are revealed slowly.
After reading this I feel cheated by my American public school upbringing. Why are we so sheltered from Eastern religions? There is so much more out there - so many more experiences of God than the very limited and narrow interpreation of God in this culture. This book is really an eye-opener - I highly recommend it.
اگر اگاهی درونی بالایی دارید یا در حال بیدار شدن به حقیقت درون خویش هستید حتما این کتاب رو بخونید و اگر برای شما بی مفهوم و تخیلی و دروغی بود پس بار دیگر در سالهای اینده برگردید و بخوانیدش و ببینید چقدر رشد معنوی شما به فهم این کتاب و هضم داستان های شگفت انگیزش از زندگی یوگی های به اشراق رسیده ی هند کمک میکنه و ببینید که چقدر اگاهی شما بزرگ تر از قبل شده و تشنه ی مشرف شدن به حقیقت ذاتی خودتون هستید.
After finishing it, I sent away to Self-Realization Fellowship, the organization Yogananda founded in 1920, for the three-and-a-half years’ worth of bi-monthly lessons on “right living” and follow Yogananda’s teachings today as part of my daily spiritual discipline.I’ve listened to the audiobook version, read by Ben Kingsley, three times now and it never fails to thrill me.
I was already teaching spiritual classes by the time I encountered this book and was amazed at how much deeper it took me in my knowledge and practice.Yogananda teaches that direct contact with God is possible through the application of scientific yoga principles.
This book as supposedly changed lives... I'm not sure that it did anything for me. I thought that it dragged on enormously and felt like a very large pamphlet.
Tuy nhiên, điều này đang bị lung lay từ khi mình là một yogini (được gần mười một tháng) và đặc biệt là sau khi đọc tự truyện của Paramahansa Yogananda - người sáng lập ngôi trường lấy yoga và tâm linh làm nền tảng đầu tiên ở Ấn Độ.Mình tưởng Tự truyện của một yogi nói gì đó về yoga, về cuộc sống của tác giả xoay quanh yoga, ví dụ như cơ duyên nào đến với bộ môn điều khí - điều thân - điều tâm này, quá trình tập từ cơ bản lên nâng cao có gì khó khăn, yêu thích những thế nào, trong thời gian gắn bó với yoga có bao giờ chợt thấy chán và muốn thử sang bộ môn khác...
If I have ever been dragged to a book kicking and screaming, it was first The Holy Bible: King James Version, then Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures, and finally, though I demonstrably handled it with more maturity, Autobiography of a Yogi.
Yoganandaji, through his visitation with the deceased Sri Yukteswar, explains the complexities of the causal, astral, and physical worlds, and the complicated hierarchical system of promotion that is apparently the fate of every living human being, and it is exhausting.
Somehow Sri Yukteswar got into a sweet internship with the Supreme Being, jumping out of the herd to assist in the astral greenroom for causal candidates.
Yogananda confided with Tagore and Gandhi and many other world great names. It's a beautiful auto-biography, recalling childhood,amazing stories of India, a troubled school-learning (the Humanities, and English...),and above all: the Master Teachings.Yogananda brought Kriya Yoga to the USA and wrote many books; some on parallels between Christianity and Yoga.One of the key points of the book: his love for his Master Yuketswar. A must-read book, especially in these days when Gandhi-inspired, soci
Yogananda confided with Tagore and Gandhi and many other world great names. It's a beautiful auto-biography, recalling childhood,amazing stories of India, a troubled school-learning (the Humanities, and English...),and above all: the Master Teachings.Yogananda brought Kriya Yoga to the USA and wrote many books; some on parallels between Christianity and Yoga.One of the key points of the book: his love for his Master Yuketswar.
  A must-read book, especially in these days when Gandhi-inspired, social activist Anna Hazare draws millions in India against political corruption [review of 2011].
I'm going to go against the grain here and say that although I see Yogananda as an important figure, and someone who constantly strived, spritiually speaking - his mix of western occultism, Theosophy and New-Age-ism is just that.
Quote fromt he autobiography: "..around the six spinal centers which correspond to the twelve astral signs of the zodiac, the symbolic Cosmic Man. One-half minute of revolution of energy around the sensitive spinal cord of man effects subtle progress in his evolution; that half-minute of Kriya equals one year of natural spiritual unfoldment..." If he was here now I'd ask him not to pander to the wannabes in the west and stick with authentic Hindu teachings.
Dân Phật giáo thấy mình ăn chay thì sáng mắt lên như tìm thấy đồng chí xong rủ rê đi chùa, đi coi bói (!?), mặc áo lam đi mần từ thiện (mình thích xì tai chuyển khoản và ship hiện vật tới tận nhà hơn), thao túng mình làm cái cái kia với lí do "có phúc lắm đó" "làm cho có phước" :))) Dân Thiên Chúa giáo/Tin Lành thì bắt đầu trích dẫn câu của Chúa Cha lúc nói với Adam với Eva, đại ý: Ta giao cho các con mọi súc vật và cây cỏ trên đời, muốn xài sao thì xài :))) Cho nên không "xài" thịt động vật là chống lại ý Chúa :< Còn người bình thường thì xỉa xói: Ăn chay làm gì, thiếu chất, có ngon lành gì đâu mà ăn,...
Fantastic!!! Listening to this e-book on Audible reminds me of every reason why I had decided to become a yoga teacher six years ago!! Must Read for those interested in eastern theology, with a desire to abandon dogmatic viewpoints on life, and finally those ready to jump into the great abyss of the unknown...resting within.
I already feel pretty centered in my life and I feel that I have a good relationship with the Divine (as Yogananda calls it).
It is beautiful to read about someone who devotes their entire life to God and meditation.
Yogananda refers a lot to Christ's teachings, but I think there is a bit of a disconnect between Christianity and his philosophy of meditation.
I think meditation and "self-realization" and the access you gain to divinity cannot be complete without the idea of self-less service like Christ taught.
More just a book 'Autobiography of a Yogi' transformed my heart and mind like an indelible spiritual experience...
Here's what i wrote in my autobiography:'My mind wondrously expanded during the process of reading Paramahansa Yogananda’s Autobiography of a Yogi.
Always destined to become a yogi, Yogananda shares the miracles he experienced in his life as well as some of the sacred teachings he obtained on his road of awakening.
Yogananda was the first yogi ever to share the divinity of his experiences in such a way.
Because of Yogananda, I felt a sense of God intoxication for the first time.
Throughout the book, it looked as if the author was trying to 'sell' something in the name of yogic powers, mysticism etc., This book is not going to enlighten you, of course we can't outsource enlightenment to books, one has to attain it on his own - but, thins book makes you think that being a yogi is all about gaining some supernatural powers etc., which is not going to help you!For me, this book is like Dan Brown's novel!
My name is Maria, and I read this book the first time in English, even though I was not really good in speaking or understanding English.
So I had a glossary and the book at the same time, teaching myself the language while reading this awsome story and amazing information.
This book is the only book you really need in your bookshelves, if you would have to choose between getting read of your home library, but was asked to just keep ONE single book, this is the book.
So time passed and I kept reading other books, but not once did I leave the decision of travelling to India, and come in touch with a master kriya Yogi.
so far this book is fucking fascinating.
it's doubly fascinating to me because paramhansa's brother is bishnu gosh, bikram's guru.
this book is super dense but filled with amazing stories of growing up in india being surrounded by mystics and saints who would perform miracles left and right.
it's amazing to me that there could be a place where spirituality is so widely accepted and celebrated.
having finished this book finally i have this to say: sometimes you read a book at exactly the right time.
if this is the right time for you this book will change your life.
This is a first hand account of an enlightened person on a specific spirtiual path. Yogananda came to the US in 1920 and stayed until his death in 1952 to spread the teachings of Kriya Yoga, which is a practical approach to spritiuality. It gives the goal and the practices that support living the spiritual life. I am biased since this is the spiritual lineage under which I study. I have it in my car so I can read during meals or when I am waiting.
In this book, he talks about this life as a projection in the following way:"One day I entered a cinema house to view a newsreel of the European battlefields.
The First World War was still being waged in the West; the newsreel presented the carnage with such realism that I left the theater with a troubled heart.
They are the cosmic motion picture, as real and as unreal as the theater newsreel you have just seen -- a play within a play.' "My heart was still not comforted.
This was probably the first book Michael Miley ever gave me, possibly the first book I ever read upon his recommendation.
Many others have followed, Michael having influenced my reading more than anyone else.
Raised in a broken working-class family, ostensibly Catholic, Michael had been going through some swift changes, questioning his previously unthought assumptions about religion, politics and philosophy.
He was beginning to find some insight through the study of Eastern philosophies.
An exchange of ideas, reading recommendations and books began.
From Yogananda my readings progressed to Sri Aurobindo, again at Michael's suggestion, a more intellectually satisfying thinker, but that's another story...
Started reading this book four years back.It took me a long time to finish mainly due to the languag
