https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16165773-the-great-gatsby-and-other-stories
I love the sarcasm in the writing and the way that the protagonist just kind of floats around between the different "worlds" not really belonging anywhere ....
just observing life from different perspectives and striving to fit, but just never quite getting there.In the end everybody tries so hard..
(probably depends on if I am in a cynical mood or not).I'm a sucker for a tragic ending (as long as it's meaningful and not just because it's unpredictable) and this book definitely has that.Another book that I will read again and probably love even more the 2nd time.
The Great Gatsby:Although at some points a choppy and confusing writing style, the wonderfulness of the story and criticism of wealth and of the "Age of Jazz", is worthy of a 4 or 4,5 stars rating for this book.People complain that they couldn't identify with the characters, but then again, who now can when the times have changed so much?
The only reason that I didn't give it the full five stars, was that at times I had to go back and re-read to make sure I knew who was speaking and what they meant, as it is choppy to a certain extent.
Sometimes I just don't understand why certain books/writers become famous and are considered "must reads".
While I definitely enjoyed this work to "Tender is the Night", I just can't get behind it.
I feel like there's almost something...
But it just never quite gets there for me.
The only emotion I had was at the end, but throughout I really couldn't care less about these boring, empty characters.
Not only that, but I find Fitzgerald's writing style very choppy and hard to read.
Disappointing, because I was expecting more mystery and depth to both the characters and the story.
Fitzgerald makes beautiful sentences which drew me in and were a pleasure to read. He also told an interesting story with very interesting characters, none of which were predictable. I really enjoyed this book.
I hated it. The longest one hundred something pages I ever read. I didn't like the author's writing style AT ALL. He just kept subtly criticizing everything and it got on my nerves...also his descriptions tended to be on the long, wordy, and boring side.
Even more appreciation now.
It is exactly that lavish and painfully naive time that Fitzgerald depicts.The second element, which is helpfully provided in this edition's afterword (and also somewhat evident towards the end), is the fact that Fitzgerald was critical of the lavish lifestyle and careless behavior exhibited by the narrator's (and, one could rightly assume, Fitzgerald's) friends and the mysterious Gatsby.
I do not think Fitzgerald even considered the similarity to Conan Doyle's approach, but it is interesting that he would use what is essentially a statistical stratagem (although Gatsby's fails).At the end of the day, however, with all the interesting background and theories , in the present day and age, the book is not very compelling, but provides food for thought.
F. Scott Fitzgerald's writing is beautiful and lyrical.
It is smooth and descriptive and complex.
It is easy to see why he is one of the most celebrated authors in literature.
However, my problems lies not with his writing but with his story.SPOILERSThe Great Gatsby is famous for portraying the feel and atmosphere of the 20's so accurately.
But other than that portrayal, the book lacks...
plot.
But that only occurs in about ten pages of the book.
The rest of the story revolves around scrutinizing and interacting with Gatsby.
The plot was just short and lacking.
So the book was just ok for me.
I'm not the first to note that The Great Gatsby comes closest to being the great American novel.  F. Scott Fitzgerald's mix of how shady dealings in support of a laudable idealism, an innocence in pursuit of a flawed goal, and a tragic end could be an allegory of the country--almost. It supports multiple re-readings. They're always rewarded with new insights.
My third reading of The Great Gatsby and each time I enjoy it more. Fitzgerald's writing is incandescent giving it the appearance of being crafted effortlessly. His characters are memorable and their lives Illustrate the era of the 1920's perfectly. A beautiful example of his writing on the last page describes the island where Gatsby's house is and of the island as it was "...a fresh, green breast of the new world" and "the transitory enchanted moment man must have held his breath in the presence of this continent..." Beautiful writing!
I read this book again, for at least the 10th time. Why I love reading such a sad story, I don't know. I love Mr. Carraway, the hot summer days and the light on the water and the green light across the bay. It is hard to take the entitled people and the general sadness that looms in their lives. Money really doesn't buy happiness. Fitzgerald's writing is exquisite and I love reading his words and phrases and how his stories develop.
One of the greatest American novels and certainly my favorite jazz age author. A truly classic tale of love, wealth, regret and loss.
Always great, no matter how many times I read it. With every new group of students, it's like a new book.
I only read The Great Gatsby in this book and one other short story.
I felt sorry for Gatsby and I don't know if it's because I think he's such a lovesick fool or because I genuinely feel bad that his life was wasted over this one delusional dream that wasn't really his fault.
I don't know who to blame in this story, all of them contributed to this story's tragedy in one way or another.
I felt like this story could've gone much longer and went deeper into each character.
I will not go into the details, but even his partner Wolfsheim is avoiding to have anything to do with Gatsby at one important stage in the book.The moral seems to be that money does not buy friendship or, indeed, anything except material things- you can have a huge house, a fabulous car, servants, and a plane and still suffer and be miserable.And in the end, we are all the same, for when the moment comes, we do not take anything to another world- if there is one.And if there is no after world, there is no sense in accumulating things, when you end up in smoke anyway.The Great Gatsby seems like a wild joy ride, but full of significance.
Rating a different version to allow a new review and finish date.
How can goodreads call a book finished after one read?
I see something new every time I read this.
This time I noticed, I think, how painterly his writing is.
I felt continually pulled into a painting from the same era, playing with abstraction and foreground/background in the way he casually imbues the scenery with life and shape that make you try to translate his images into the versions of the landscape you know and see the shimmering divergences.
a) The Great GatsbyThe first 60 pages were too slow for me that I nearly gave up.
NEARLY.
I felt like I was with him witnessing every event unfolding in front of me.
I have a love-hate relationship with Tom. I certainly didn't like him but strangely enough, there's a softer side to him which I adored.
But the story unfolded shockingly for me & I'm like "Okay, this is one fucked up family."There is an Afterword and it's always nice to read the real meaning behind Fitzgerald's stories.
The Great Gatsby is a story based in the 1920s in New York City after the war.
The story is based around Nick and a group of young men and women he meets and their life and love affairs.I had to really try to envisioned how it must have been in those times because the book didn't describe in enough detail to paint a proper picture of the characters and the story.
I never felt a full connection and bond with Nick or the other characters and I found the affairs and stories hard to follow and the attempt at a love story lacklustre and unconvincing.
Ironically, we live in a vapid generation that may not like the book for the way it portrays them, the extravagant parties, the low morals, constant search of pleasure, fake personas and vapid friendships.
Not only is his writing style fantastic, and he has a way with words, but the story itself is sublime.
In the end, the parties give way to a realization of the uselessness of it all, the fake friends they bought, and how living in the past to follow an ideal is foolishness.
A fantastic read, and well worth the 2-3 hours needed to read it all the way through.
Gatsby's character was incredibly intriguing, and I found myself wishing I could hop into the book and join in with Nick and Gatsby and Daisy.
This book is also great if you want to learn new vocabulary.
When I first started reading this book, I had to read it with a dictionary beside me because the first few chapters were full of great new words - it definitely expanded my vocabulary.
After I finished reading this book, I legitimately sat on my couch thinking for a good 30 minutes about everything that had occurred in the story.
It was great.
Certainly worth reading.
I feel like this book has been over-hyped.
It is written in first person, but it often seems as though the narrator has information that he should not know, therein providing the feeling of omniscience.
The author also goes off on tangents that don't really seem to move the story along in any significant way, making the 154 page story seem far longer than it needs to be.
I don't think it has ever taken me longer to get through such a short story.I never, ever thought I would say this about a book, but I wish I had just waited for the movie.
Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" is truly an outstanding read.
I don't care what anybody says, but any media surrounding this story has no affect on how I feel about this book.
I could almost feel the writer's passion on every page.
His use of description paints a beautiful picture and he strikes the perfect balance between humour and sentiment throughout the story.
It was a bit of a slow start but the further you read the more impressive it gets.
I'm blown away by Fitzgerald's creativity.
I recommend this book to whomever is the type of person to watch life unfold from the sidelines.
Began this book about two weeks ago, finished it tonight (Jan 22, 2013) - it is not the longest read ever but it is quite enjoyable. Really didn't see what, if any, ending this would have, but it is wrapped up nicely and somewhat shockingly.I've started to call everyone and everything "old sport". There's really nothing that can be said about this book that hasn't been said already. So read it, enjoy it or don't. I did. Take care.
The Great Gatsby is a novel worth reading. The characters are fantastic and its a quick, direct and engaging read. Although the style of writing didn’t appeal to me as much as others, it was still quite entertaining. The additional short stories were pretty fun to read as well.Full review here: http://klling.wordpress.com/2013/08/1...
The story itself was quite intriguing but I couldn't bring myself to rate The Great Gatsby  higher than three stars because I didn't form a connection to any of the characters. I also found the writing to be somewhat disjointed. I'd still recommend this novel to others as I do believe it's a classic that you need to read at least once. The Great Gatsby certainly does have a unique feel to it which one would either embrace or reject completely.
It really is as good as everyone says. I didn't imagine that I would dislike Daisy Buchanan as much as I did - it's definitely not a work in which you love all of the characters. I'm not even sure that I liked Gatsby himself so much. Nick Carraway, Fitzgerald's wonderful prose, and his depiction of the excesses of the rich during the Jazz Age, are the novel's saving graces, making it a beautiful tragedy.
Don't get me wrong, I love the Great Gatsby, but there was just something about his short stories that made me rate this version lower than the novel alone. After hearing so many different voices of praise for his short stories, I expected the ones in this book to be outstanding and leave me in the same way that Gatsby did. The plots of the ones selected were probably the weakest of his work, and most were so dry I forgot about them (whoops).
It's a well-crafted book, but difficult to enjoy when all of the characters are terrible. They're awful people on purpose, but that doesn't make them easier to stand. Fizgerald does a great job with the symbolism, and that's part of how the book is crafted. Well-written but nothing to get excited over.
While "The Great Gatsby" itself was interesting, I found it hard to get through the other short stories included at the end. The themes that seemed to be unique to Gatsby, were repetitively used in almost all the short stories, and took the charm of Fitzgerald's main work away, for me. However, there were a few funny moments and flashes of inspiration, and overall made for a pleasant read.
First time I read this many moons ago in high school I didn't like it. All I remembered was that it was about stupid rich people. The second time reading it, I can now admire it's imaginative diction and how vividly 1920's America comes to life. In the end, it's still about careless, stupid rich people. Saddening.
