https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33547.Hell_House
and The Devil Rides Out.)So I was surprised to find that Hell House began to bore me about half way through, and—although the compulsively readable prose kept me going—exhausted and dismayed me at its end.Part of this is because of the kind of reader I am, for I love terror but view horror with both interest and suspicion.
The novel, because of its length, tends to do the opposite.Matheson is too good a craftsman to completely ruin his terror with horror, but I think in Hell House he comes close.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Hell House is the sexually awkward tale of a haunted house that can't even bother to be haunted until the book is nearly over. Dr. Barrett has been hired by a wealthy, dying man to investigate one of the most haunted houses known to man: Hell House. Along with his wife and two professional mediums, Dr. Barrett packs up his scientific gear and embarks to the long-abandoned house to settle the question once a
Hell House is the sexually awkward tale of a haunted house that can't even bother to be haunted until the book is nearly over.
Unfortunately, Dr. Barrett's scientific approach to hauntings and his pragmatic thinking is often invoked to downplay the paranormal events at Hell House, which actively dilutes any chilling moments.
After waiting so long to be spooked or feel a burning need to turn on all the lights, the notion that a character might falter in sexual orientation was hardly a terrifying payoff.
On that note, the book often reads like a male sexual fantasy.
She was on a trip with her family to visit a lovely area with beautiful trees, fresh grass and rain.
And yet, despite the large area, we were the only family there.
And so when I wasn't reading I explored the derelict houses, the rusty play area and the lovely forest.And one day I settled down on bench outside and opened Hell House on my Kindle.I had never been so afraid in my life.
I was enraptured - I couldn't put the book down despite my terror.
The book played over and over in my mind and wouldn't let its hold on me go for months.
I've been a Richard Matheson fan for a few years now and he rarely disappoints.
Barrett thinks Florence's beliefs are crap and his scientific explanation is the only one.
What's caused by the spirits inhabiting the house and what isn't?The first third of the book is mostly exposition.
Matheson knows all about suspense and tension.
The attacks on the investigators by the spirit of inhabiting the Belasco house were fairly brutal.The ending was a tad on the anti-climactic side once all was said and done.
Highly recommended for fans of the haunted house sub-genre of horror.
It's the Mount Everest of haunted houses."This.is.one.creepy.book.The excesses depicted in the history of the Belasco House (and here you can list any blasphemy and perversion you can think of) make for morbidly fascinating reading in itself and sets the stage for this 1970s horror novel.
These are the things that impinge on the reader’s comfort zone, and isn’t that why we read horror stories in the first place?As he crossed the entry hall, he had the feeling that the house was swallowing him alive.Hell House does a terrific job of building tension.
"It's a horror classic!" and "It's soooooooo scary" don't usually push me into reading a book because what I find scary normally isn't what other people find scary.
But this book hit me at just the right time, while I was in the mood for a creepy read.
That's damn impressive, especially given such simple writing.In summation: If you're looking for a scary read and can forgive the repetition of words like "started", which was used at least twice per page, or so it seemed, you should dig this one.
It’s no different this time around.I read this book closely on the heels of finishing up Shirley Jackson’s The Haunting of Hill House which was probably a big mistake on my part as the premise of these two books is nearly identical and Jackson’s story didn’t thrill me the way it did most people.
The house is tainted and incredibly haunted by a horny ghost who eventually infects the woman folk and does shocking pervy things.I listened to this story on audio and the narrator, Ray Porter, does an excellent job.
One of those books that requires certain mind set to be fully absorbed. Almost perfectly captures sexual madness, glossing over the many various versions of it with not just physical but emotional perspective. Setting and characterization is stereotypical but one that most often works the best.
I can’t believe it’s taken me this long to read such a horror classic by one of the masters who has influenced so many others, including Stephen King. First off, what I loved:1) What’s not to love? Matheson manages to accomplish a haunted house story that is not only supremely eerie and filled with a creepy atmosphere that’s sublime, but a full-on assault of the senses as well. This book does not pussy-foot around – it is in your face practically from page one all the way through to the end. 2)
Matheson manages to accomplish a haunted house story that is not only supremely eerie and filled with a creepy atmosphere that’s sublime, but a full-on assault of the senses as well.
This book does not pussy-foot around – it is in your face practically from page one all the way through to the end.
One of the most riveting scenes in the novel is when Fischer is describing the house’s past in gritty and illuminating detail.
Matheson really is a master of his craft.
(view spoiler)[I’m reminded of one scene in particular when Dr. Barrett becomes trapped in the steam room.
And how Florence Tanner meets her end in the chapel (hide spoiler)] Positively ghoulish!
This book is yet another "product of its times", and once again the times in question are the seventies (see also "Still Life With Woodpecker").
The ending of the book is kind of a downer, as well, which is fairly typical of western lit in the 70's.
The story has a nice creepiness throughout and makes some interesting observations about the nature of the universe and the successes (and limits) of parapsychology, but in the end I just thought the book was kind of OK, nothing great.
Whoa, creepy, scary book. This must be required reading for Wes Craven and Clive Barker and other horror movie directors. Published 6 years before The Shining, I also wonder how much this influenced Stephen King. Alas, I did not care for the ending.Well written, imaginative, and innovative, Matheson again displays his power as a storyteller in this genre.
I absolutely love the early 70's movie version of this book, The Legend of Hell House with Roddy McDowell.
Following the spirit of my challenge to myself this year to read more books that I've always wanted to read but never have....I decided to delve into the evil that is Hell House.
I'm not sure I like the mixing of so much cheesy horror with what might have been a great haunted house tale.
This story definitely brings a 1960's/early 1970's horror movie feel to the classic haunted house story.
The mix of horror elements along with the haunted house just didn't work for me.
“I am certain you will find your stay here most illuminating…It is regrettable I cannot be here with you…All your needs have been provided for…Nothing has been overlooked. Go where you will, and do what you will – these are the cardinal precepts of my home. Feel free to function as you choose. There are no responsibilities, no rules. ‘Each to his own device’ shall be the only standard here. May you find the answer that you seek. It is here, I promise you.”- Emeric Belasco in Richard Matheson’s H
If you squint, though, Richard Matheson’s Hell House is kinda-sorta a Christmas book.
But whereas Hill House deals in slow, creeping, and ambiguous terror, Matheson’s work is one of horror.
(For further, non-required reading: My review of The Haunting of Hill House) Matheson doesn’t waste any time with a lengthy set up.
Upon entering Hell House (“the Mount Everest of haunted houses”), Matheson gradually increases the tension.
(There is some unintentional humor, which is bound to happen when you use the word “rectum”).I think there is a ceiling on how great a book about people in a haunted house can be.
Obviously inspired by Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House, Richard Matheson's Hell House pays homage to Jackson by borrowing the basic crux of the plot - several characters gathering to investigate a seemingly haunted mansion - and making the story his own instead of merely copying the earlier novel.Perhaps the biggest advantage of the original Hill House was its ambiguity concerning the origin and source of the hauntings; it Hell House there is plenty of ambiguity, but it's obvious that the hauntings and phenomena are real, and that the house fully deserves its hellish name.
This book was just straight up strange. Made me very uncomfortable. Check out my full review on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
Great classic haunted house story, perfect as a Halloween read! Ultimately a clever idea and a solid resolution.
I was looking forward to reading this book as I have enjoyed reading Richard Matheson books in the past.But this did not live up to me expectations.This was a strange mix of supernatural horror, pseudo science all tied together with some very awkward erotica.When I think of other horror stories from the 60s and 70s like Ira Levin’s ‘Rosemary’s Baby’ and Peter Bloch’s ‘Psycho’ that left me breathless, this did not.Four people are employed to enter Hell House and discover the source of the horror that has surrounded the house for decades.
Four enter and only two leave.
A classic ghost story written by an author that was before his time. This gruesome thriller was made even better with the added bonus of being narrated by the great Roy Porter. A fantastic, spooky story to listen to around Halloween.
Ideal para pasar un rato agradable ya que es de fácil lectura, ameno y ligero.
Son muy planos, clichés: el típico escéptico amante de la ciencia, la mujer a la que le pasan cosas extrañas pero se las guarda, la "loca" de quien todos desconfían y el experto que se calla más de lo que cuenta.
Me daba igual si se morían o lo que sea.
Otro problema es que es algo repetitivo.Con respecto al final, es bastante simple, casi infantil, sin embargo, es aceptable.
No me voló la cabeza, pero no es un mal cierre para una novela que no pretende más que entretener.
Ono što je zajedničko za svaki njegov roman koji sam pročitao jeste to da me nikada nije razočarao.
Ima tu ponekad nešto što može da se predvidi, ali generalno gledano, kraj ostaje nekako uvek u magli jer Metison može veoma lako da preokrene sve i iznenadi čitaoce.Tako je i sa ovom knjigom.
"Paklena kuća" je nalik na sve one priče, filmove, serije,...
o ukletim kućama, ali ona je definitivno originalna na svoj način.
I četiri glavna lika su odlično oslikana i super su doočarani momenti kada kuća pobuđuje ono najgore u njima.Ovaj roman se ne ispušta lako iz ruku...
I think besides a couple of flow problems and the story taking a while to get going, there is a reason why this one is a classic.Taking place in 1970, a man named William Deutsch wants to investigate the possibility of life after death.
I think at one point the character Florence asks why can't they both be right and I thought the way that circled back to the ending was very well done.Lionel's wife Edith is repressed and scared to be alone.
I think that the book doesn't set up a lot of things enough here and there, so you had to re-read some passages some of the time in order to understand what is going on.
It has a reputation as one of the scariest haunted house books ever written, and I went in with high expectations.
It was also written at a time when parapsychology was actually working towards being a viable science.
Basically, it's a period piece.The climax of the book relies on the gross-out and sex to make an impact.
There are genuinely frightening things that happen in the book, but when I remember it, I won't feel scared, I'll feel slightly ill.
That's not to say that this is a bad book.
But Hell House takes that inspiration and runs with it, not only giving us those things, but more - creepiness, doubt, faith, hope, dread, manipulation, science and religion, and more importantly, a resolution, as well as characters that may not be likable, but are real and interesting and lifelike.I really enjoy the way that Matheson writes.
I enjoyed that aspect, because it was unique as far as haunted house stories I've read, but also because it made things far more interesting than your average "angry ghost" story.I really enjoyed the characters, even though I didn't like some of them, but they were realistic and interesting and I could understand them, even if I didn't agree with them.
Lots did happen, though, and almost immediately.
For the most part, so many haunting manifestations weregoing on that it pretty much took any suspense or dread out of the story.There were brief exceptions, but nothing that would give me that niggling apprehension as I would turn off the light after reading and make the darkened journey upstairs to bed.I also felt a detachment to any of the phenomena (and found some of it to be downright hilarious).
La dimora dei cazzi sovrannaturali Il tempo è stato impietoso con "Hell House", opera del 1971 che a
Chilling thriller, a house which has a history of indulgence in evil and acts of the most vile and depraved committed by residents and visitors years past by and all departed this earth or have they?
Are their souls still haunting the house?
That's the task of a group who have been hired to investigate the house for the supernatural, but a game is being played against them as they take resident the question is by who and will they leave alive?
Matheson is a great writer when it comes to painting a picture of fear and terror in your mind and this is a well written story i highly recommend.http://more2read.com/?review=hell-house-by-richard-matheson
Re-read for August 2017 Group read!Still 5 stars--a classic work that continues to live up to my memories/expectations.
I was fascinated by the vile and depraved history of the Belasco house, horrified to learn about the evil and malignant force waiting for the members of the investigative party we get to follow inside its walls, and disturbed by the brutal assaults that follows.Characterization is really good; with quite small means we get to know each member of the cast and they feel at all times coherent and real.
Other parts of the narrative are not so good; repetitive use of words made me stumble a bit at times (in parts of the book each of the characters 'started' - as in 'twitched' - 'started' - as in 'set out' and 'started' - as in 'prepared for' - and so on - all the time...
The book doesn't improve much on the movie, other than to fill in the sexual perversions that were excised from the plot, timid though they were...it seems that the height of sexual perversity is a woman forcing herself on another person (man or woman)...after reading Exquisite Corpses by Poppy Z.
Bottom line: this book is a pale imitation of The Haunting of Hill House, and made a much more entertaining movie.
This one has me ready to give up on the genre; it was that bad.Matheson seems to have lifted most of his stuff straight from Shirley Jackson's novel: a parapsychologist and two sensitives agree to stay in a notorious haunted house in an effort to prove or disprove survival after death.
I was just amused through most of it, but when Matheson borrowed an element from the scariest and creepiest scene in The Haunting of Hill House and tarted it up with sex and gore, I got mad.I rarely put down a book, so I stayed with this one to the bitter end, and was rewarded with an ending so lame and anticlimactic that I was tempted to throw the book across the room.
