https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6420846-lockdown
"In the dead of night they come for you, Alex," he said. "Sooner or later they come for everyone." 4 1/2 stars. Oh wow, this was truly terrifying. If you're looking for a tense, fast-paced and frightening book that pulls you in immediately and makes your heart pound, I cannot recommend Lockdown enough.You know, I think realistic stories can be very scary, and so can supernatural stories, but the most horrifying stories of all are those that balance the two of them. The kind of stories that play
"In the dead of night they come for you, Alex," he said.
If you're looking for a tense, fast-paced and frightening book that pulls you in immediately and makes your heart pound, I cannot recommend Lockdown enough.You know, I think realistic stories can be very scary, and so can supernatural stories, but the most horrifying stories of all are those that balance the two of them.
And this is one of those stories.For me, being accused of a crime I didn't commit is a terrifying thing.
A prison where strange, inexplicable things happen at night.
When you arrive you quickly realise this place is beyond normal; it’s dark, oppressive, infested with rabid dogs and weird creatures that go round eating the inmates.
The old timers are just trying to make it day to day, anyone could be picked off at random by the creepy black suit men, so they tend to keep their heads down and hope the newcomers are marked for destruction.Alex is rather lucky, kind of ironic considering that he’s in some weird demonic prison run by ominous thugs, but he does have it easy compared to others.
I think I'm going to bump this to 4.5 stars because I can't stop thinking about it! In fact, when I went to sleep I was picturing the wheezers and literally had to remind myself that it was just a story... it's not real, Brandi... it's ok... you're a big girl.... fine, just cuddle up to the mister, he's asleep so he won't know how big of a baby you're being...  That was me at 1 in the morning. True story, haha.I don't typically read books that have a horror element to them because of the fact t
True story, haha.I don't typically read books that have a horror element to them because of the fact that I'm a huge wussy-pants.
I was as helpless to stop reading as Alex was to escape his fate.
The one thing that did chafe a little bit was the fact that Furnace is supposed to be a prison for youths, and that would be both sexes, but yet the whole thing seems to be solely for boys.
I highly recommend this story to anyone who likes a lot of action and isn't adverse to a little horror.
3.5 out of 5 stars. I am rounding down to 3, but depending on how I feel later, I might round it to 4.Beneath heaven is hell.Beneath hell is Furnace.One of my biggest fears is being blamed for something I did not do - be it stealing something, cheating in an exam (which btw gives me nauseas just thinking about the hypocritical cowards who do this in real life)... killing someone; you name it. Alex has been sent to Furnace Penitentiary for a criem he did not commit, and it is said that prison is
+1.5 points for this.• It was easy to distinguish between who is who, which means, each character has their own personality.
It's difficult to share the same fear someone is feeling if you don't understand why they feel that way - and this applies to characters in books too.
This, again, leads me to my next point.• Felt the adrenaline but not the fear.
In other words, I was on the edge of my seat all the time because I wanted to know what was gonna happen next, but where is the fear?
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.com "We told you," he said, placing his hand on the shoulder of the boy beside me but talking to us all. "You can run but you couldn't hide. And now here you are, guests of honor at Furnace Penitentiary." OH. MY. GOD. What did did I just read?! Okay so apparently you can be a somewhat criminal or not a criminal at all and these thing people come and find you and get you put in jail. Jail... jail would be a cake walk.. you get put in the Furnace! Your underground
Okay so apparently you can be a somewhat criminal or not a criminal at all and these thing people come and find you and get you put in jail.
Jail...
He makes a few friends while he is there, but like his friend Donovan said, you should never really have friends or bring your heart into the Furnace because everyone at some point will get TAKEN or killed by other inmates.
I think anyone that likes horror or just wants to be freaked out or I don't know what, just read the book.
It's already a cluster in the first book!
It'd be odd to say that I really liked this book considering it to be one of the most scary books I've read.But still,as much as the story managed to scare the hell out of me,I really loved this book.
Until now I had read horror stories with blood,some monsters and lots of creepy stuff.
Furnace was a lot more worse than hell.
I liked reading this book from Alex's POV,and it was written in past tense which made it more mysterious.
“Beneath Heaven is Hell, boys, and beneath Hell is Furnace. I hope you enjoy your stay.” The book-gods have decided to smile at me today so excuse me while I dance to the awesomeness of this book. Interview with Lockdown by Paige Bookdragon. Paige:Good evening everyone, this is Paige from The Book Interview and today we have the one and only Lockdown for our  The Favorite-Shelf segment. Let's give it a round of applause. (everyone claps)Paige: Now Lockdown, for those who haven't heard of you, c
Paige:Good evening everyone, this is Paige from The Book Interview and today we have the one and only Lockdown for our  The Favorite-Shelf segment.
Well, Lockdown is a story of Alex Sawyer who was framed of murder.
Alex was sent to Furnace Penitentiary, the world’s most secure prison for young offenders.Paige: I heard that it was a scary book, is it true?Lockdown: It is.
This is more like "one-wrong-move-and-something-is-going-to-get-me-sooner-than-I-want-and-I-don't-know-what-the-heck-are-those-something" type of scary.
You just know that they will.Paige: Now that's a nasty and I love nasty.
How would you describe him?Lockdown: Well,Alex is a refreshing character.
3.75*Jail is wild. The action scenes were the best part. I think there could have been more with the monsters, but that's probably going to be explored in future books. I like all the characters, but I'm not super into them like I would in one of my favorite books. The main character is a bit too normal. Also the author really should of given him a more unique name than Alex. I've seen that name used so many times. People aren't even named Alex that much in real life.
I’ll take a free book.” So no, I didn’t really like the cover.
I sat there, staring at the blank page, gasping and panting like a dog from lack of oxygen from reading a book.
There wasn’t any really bad foul language either, like some of the other teen books I’ve been reading lately.Recommendation: this book is a thriller, not a horror book, even though it’s mildly graphic (mildly.
It’s not the most horrific book I’ve ever read, but it’s certainly not for an eight-year-old.
Personally I’d recommend it for anyone fourteen and up (but that’s just me).Here is a link for a giveaway for this book!
*inserts hardcore-fan squeal*Being super engrossing and totally un-put-down-able, I couldn't stop reading this book, and ended up finishing it by 4 o'clock in the morning, only then did I close the book with a satisfied smile on my face and went to bed dreaming about Alex's Escape.What I love about this book:1.
Alex became good friends with one of the inmates who arrived on the same day with him - a boy called Zee. I really liked how the author wrote their friendship - it felt real and genuine.
It makes me realize that true friendship is indeed precious.Bottomline:Exciting, thrilling and gripping, Escape from Furnace: Lockdown will leave you with nightmares / thinking about it days after you've read it.
A nightmare.
Buddy Read with TL :) Edit: On further recollection, I'm giving this a 3.5 Lockdown was an extremely hard book for me to rate.
I am so interested in finding out more about this world and who these terrible people that run the prison are.
The book left me with a lot of unanswered questions, and I'll definitely be continuing on with the series.
I do think that this book and the next book could've been one large book, rather than 2 short ones, and I think I might've enjoyed it more if it was a bit longer, with more world development etc.
But I am definitely looking forward to reading the next book.
My rating: 4.75/5 stars.Dude, I knew I'd love this book the second I saw the cover and read the synopsis.If you're looking for a fast-paced, intense and frightening YA book that captivates you and has you on the edge of your seat until the end, I recommend you read Lockdown!
I hope you enjoy your stay.”Seriously, just try to imagine being framed for a crime that you didn't commit and being sent to prison for life with no possibility of parole.
Now, imagine that but a million times worse because the prison you're being sent to is buried a mile beneath the Earth's surface and is literally worse than Hell itself.
Buddyread with Melissa :) Her review hereA fun idea of a book...
the writing can be overly descriptive but never boring.
There were quite a few times in the book where I wanted to smack Alex for being an idiot..
if you could reach into a book haha.
Loved Zee and Donovan...
the setting was grim, every person for himself and downright scary at times.
Well, I liked it for the most part but wasn't in love with it....
Kind of got the blah feeling a few times.
Not bored or anything but more of "Hmm?
Alex soon realizes that Furnace is a place worst than Hell, where the only way to survive is to find a way to escape.The best way to describe Furnace is probably with a direct quote from the book:“Beneath heaven is hell, […] and beneath hell is Furnace”Let me just start out by saying that I think Alexander Gordon Smith is an amazing author.
Smith has such a great way with words that I did sometimes feel like I was actually living the journey with Alex, Donovan, Zee and all of the boys in there.
There are some really creepy characters in this book, including the warden, the guards and some weird people that come sometimes in the middle of the night.
*Warning: if you are prone to nightmares, do not read this book before bedtime.* I couldn't put this book down and was constantly either at the edge of my seat because of the non-stop action or gripping the covers because of the horror/creepiness in it.The second half of this book was about Alex discovering a way to escape and him and his friends making a plan and executing that plan.
There was mystery, violence, horror, and a fast pace that easily guided you through the characters struggles.
The main character, Alex, helps reveal these lessons as he realizes things about his self and his past actions that lead him to start to become a better person.
A person he will hopefully be proud to be, that is, if he is able to survive the darkness threatening to take not only his hope but his life as well.As I neared the ending I was screaming, “noooooo!”, in my head because I knew there were not enough pages left.
I was being left with the dreaded cliff hanger!
This was heading for a 4, but that ending made me grin so much.
This ends on a cliffhanger.
This book barely skims the surface of this prison, society, and characters.
This books raises more questions than answers them.
For a YA novel, I consider it very dark.
Children that are killers, gangs, no skin dogs that eat children, soulless silver-eyed men, child labor, etc.
As dark as it got at times, the novel was sprinkled with much needed humor and hope.
It's our time, down here." Yes, I am a nerd.
We'll I just stared reading this book and it's very good for me and I'll think I'll finish by 3 weeks
Kitabın fantastik olduğunu düşündüm nedense. Okudukça olmadığını anladım. Spoiler vermeden anlatmamın imkanı yok. O yüzden sadece beğenip beğenmediğimi belirteyim. Bu bir serinin ilk kitabıymış. Zaten kitap da öyle bir yerde bitti ki ikinci olsa hemen okumaya başlardım. En yakın arkadaşının kötü giden bir soygunda öldürülmesi ve suçun üstüne kalmasıyla Alex Sawyer kendini Fırın denilen hapishanede bulur. Fırın’da işlerin yürüme tarzı çok olağanüstüdür ve gerçek olamayacak kadar korkunçtur. Alex tek bir şeye odaklanmıştır. Kaçmaya. Genel olarak aksiyonu iyiydi. Türünü bilemedim. Ama sevdim. Merak ederek okudum. 👍🏻
This book wasn't horrifying.
It was that feeling you get going down a rollercoaster.
Your gut sinking to endless abyss, where the floor of your stomach should be.
Just the reasoning behind the inhumanities reminded me so much of the Shusterman's Unwinded series.
Enough to keep me creeped out the entire novel.
Alex, gets framed with reasons unexplained.
No one believes his recount of the story, and he get sentenced to the Furnace.
I always knew that the little room in the basement was evil.
Not much else to say, except if you start, you're sure as hell Furnace, in for a ride.
First thought: Oh, a cute little YA book about boys in a spooooooky prison. Second thought: What?Third thought: What?Fourth thought: WHAT?!Rest of thoughts:  WHAT THE SON OF A FLYING MONKEY AM I READING AND WHY CAN'T I STOP READING AND HOW THE HELL AM I GOING TO SLEEP TONIGHT BECAUSE I CAN'T STOP THINKING ABOUT THIS AND PICTURING EVERYTHING IN THIS BOOK INCLUDING THAT CREEPY GAS MASK WHEEZER ON THE COVER! Honestly, this isn't a full on horror book. It is YA; although it's very disturbing YA.Our
First thought: Oh, a cute little YA book about boys in a spooooooky prison.
WHAT THE SON OF A FLYING MONKEY AM I READING AND WHY CAN'T I STOP READING AND HOW THE HELL AM I GOING TO SLEEP TONIGHT BECAUSE I CAN'T STOP THINKING ABOUT THIS AND PICTURING EVERYTHING IN THIS BOOK INCLUDING THAT CREEPY GAS MASK WHEEZER ON THE COVER!
There was also enough description of one particular character to make me chirp like a bluebird.
FACT: When I was young, one of my favorite movies was "The Story of 15 Boys." My favorite character was Donovan.
The writing is very descriptive up to the point of being tedious but that’s fine because the plot’s simple enough to follow: Alex is not a good kid. He is a bully and a thief. His life of petty crime changes once he is sent to the Furnace. Now consider the tag line:  Beneath Heaven is Hell. Beneath Hell is Furnace.  Scary? Yes? No? If this were one’s first foray into the world of YA horror/thriller (or whatever genre Lockdown can be classified under,) I definitely say yes. But is it sad that I d
The writing is very descriptive up to the point of being tedious but that’s fine because the plot’s simple enough to follow: Alex is not a good kid.
Beneath Hell is Furnace.
Scary?
But is it sad that I didn’t find it as scary as I was hoping?
It’s not like Lockdown isn’t bloody, gory or violent ~ it’s all of those things.
Who wouldn’t want to escape from the hell hole he’d found himself in.
Surprisingly there were funny moments, especially from Zee. I love that kid!It’s dark and it's descriptive(good thing?
Fast paced and bloody brilliant. “Don't go looking for snakes, you might find them..Don't send your eyes to the sun, you might blind them,Haven't I seen you here before?There ain't no heroes here....” This is a shit-meet-fan kind of book. There are no sugary bits glossing over events because of the main character's age. It's actually adds to the horror, when you are forced to see kids as adults and surviving trough ordeals you are certain most adults wouldn't survive trough.It has it all. Underg
Fast paced and bloody brilliant.
“Don't go looking for snakes, you might find them..Don't send your eyes to the sun, you might blind them,Haven't I seen you here before?There ain't no heroes here....”
This is a shit-meet-fan kind of book.
There are no sugary bits glossing over events because of the main character's age.
It's actually adds to the horror, when you are forced to see kids as adults and surviving trough ordeals you are certain most adults wouldn't survive trough.It has it all.
It's not something for the fans of insta justice, and evil vs.
This book will give you chills....
This book is the first in a series of five altogether, and it starts off with a bang.
He finds himself, in short order, imprisoned in the worst of all prisons--Furnace.
The only characters I have any real interest in at this point are Alex and his cell-mate, Donovan, but I hope that will change as the series continues.
I am eager to find out the answers to the above questions, as well as find out what happens from the pretty massive cliff-hanger that this book ended on.
I'm definitely going on to the next book!
J’ai mis longtemps a me lancer dans cette lecture, en premier temps parce que l’âge du personnage me refroidissait un peu, Alex Sawyer a 13 ans au début du récit, et 14 ans quand il intègre la Fournaise, du coup je craignais une écriture trop jeunesse, et une histoire trop édulcorée pour la thématique de l’histoire, mais la réalité est tout autre et je suis ravie d’avoir tenter cette lecture !Parceque en réalité Alex est mûre pour son âge, il m’a d’ailleurs fait penser à plusieurs reprise à Thomas dans le Labyrinthe de James Dashner, ils ont un peu le même tempérament, cette manière de se soucier des autres et de foncer tête baisser sans se soucier réellement des conséquences.
Thoughts While Reading (just my opinions, others may disagree)pg. 89 of 521PROS: plot & the creepy and suspenseful aspectsCONS: though completely fictional,thought the way the main character was tried to be a little too dramatic and far fetched- The judge laughed at him- The jury laughed at him- The judge was sarcastic and rude, to a 13 year old boy mind you, saying things like he wishes he could 'hang him for his crimes' - Where the hell was this kid's attorney?- The jury's decision only t
The entire time I was reading my own heart was caught in my throat, feeling as if I was in the characters' shoes and I would soon meet a deadly fate.
For a hole in the ground, this book did a great job creating an entire story line, filled with enough creepy crawlys to last me a lifetime.
I had to choose a book to read that is out of my comfort zone and I chose this one because it takes place underground.
I hate the feeling of claustrophobia that these kind of books give me.
I kept putting this book off and I shouldn't have.
I was so into the story I didn't even mind where it took place.
I was on the edge of my seat almost the entire time I was reading it and couldn't even put it down after a certain point.
Not even taking away any stars though.
2016 MacHalo Challenge: Book out of your comfort zone
I absolutely loved this book. I couldn't put it down. I saw it coming at the end but it still got me. RIP.
I like this book because it says that Alex can't take when a "gang" call the Skulls bully other guys he gets mad and wants to help when he was doing the same thing back at school .
I also like this book because it is really suspenseful because you don't know what might happen to Alex when there are so many creatures he has to worry about and also other boys in the juvenile prison.
One of them kills Toby but Alex is blamed for it because the same men wearing suits are the same guards at the juvinile call Furnance and the judge wont belive Alex .
