https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953773.The_Revolution_Betrayed
This is a most excellent book for all of those who want to know the difference between False Communism and true Communism, International Freedom Fighter Leon Trotsky un-masks the Hypocrisy of the Stalinist Dictatorship in Russia after the Death of Lenin.
Written in 1936, Trotsky provides a Marxist analysis of the fate of the Russian Revolution after Lenin's death (1924).
Marx and Lenin would be the very first to say so.
"Under a nationalized economy, quality demands a democracy of producers and consumers, freedom of criticism and initiative - conditions incompatible with a totalitarian regime of fear, lies and flattery."(And Stalin and co could only rise to power because fucking Social Democrats betrayed the revolution in Germany, but that's another story.) As always, witty and funny writing, sharp abalyses and utmost inspiring.
<3 Trotsky.
Reading George Orwell made me want to read this, and I'm glad I did.
Going into the book, judging from (my copy's) picture of a scowling Stalin and the title (which I've heard was originally when Trotsky wrote it "The Revolution Deformed"), I imagined it was going to be anti-communist ravings, when it wasn't.
Chris Harman, Tony Cliff, and ones like them claiming title to the Trotsky legacy have proven to be little more than petit-bourgeois enemies of socialism.
"Trotskyists" and Leon Trotsky have little more in common than a horse has with a plate of green beans.
They cheered on the fall of the Socialist Bloc in Europe, while Trotsky upheld the Soviet Union's proletarian class character.
worst case of sour grapes in world history. it's not cool to pooh-pooh the entire bureaucratic-bonapartist project just because you got chased outta town by an icepick-wielding madman, dude.
While I would agree that one cannot explain the Soviet Union merely by reference to personality, I think in this book Trotsky goes too far in the other direction and seems to ignore the personality of Stalin too much.
Funnily enough I think Trotsky's argument becomes perhaps more plausible after the ditching of the NKVD as a means to control society and the state post-Stalin (as after Stalin there was no mass random terror, or course it was still used against dissidents etc., but it's a big difference).
One of the most important political works of the 20th century. Explains what the Soviet Union started out as, and what it became. Essential reading for anyone interested in the history of socialism. As Trotsky wrote, the Soviet Union was not a communist country, and not even a socialist one; it was half way between capitalism and socialism.
Oh Trotsky. . . . We all know that you're just bitter because Stalin won and you didn't.
Trotsky has some wild views about "political revolution against the bureaucracy" that as far as I know weren't at all in touch with Soviet reality (and, perhaps more importantly, would not have stopped the unraveling and stagnation of the planned economy by the 70s/80s due to the Soviet Union's isolation and underdeveloped production).
That being said, I actually really enjoyed this book and found it to be a prescient analysis of what the Soviet Union was at the time.
Not nearly as anti-communist as it's painted to be, both by detractors and right-wingers who cynically use Trotsky to further their own agendas.
It’s the usual Trotsky dribble. What do you expect?
Здесь говорится об одном из самых интересных (лично для меня) периодов истории России - 20-30-х годах XX века.
Для меня, интересующегося историей, многие факты были в новинку, а уже известные - предстали в совершенно ином свете.
Конечно, за этим текстом видится личная обида (всё-таки борьбу Троцкий Сталину проиграл), но, в целом, объективность от этого страдает не сильно.
На мой взгляд, баланс между публицистичностью и научностью соблюдён идеально.Конечно, сам Лев Давидович был далеко не ангелом, но осознание этого факта не должно помешать читателю разобраться вместе с автором в причинах тогдашней трагедии нашей страны.P.S. Есть ощущение, что Оруэлл тоже читал "Преданную революцию".
"The motor force of progress is truth and not lies." Trotsky is an interesting political figure from the 20th century.
He was the 'Left Opposition' to Stalin; and a political scapegoat for nearly every catastrophe that befell the Soviet Union after Lenin's death.
In this book, Trotsky uses wit and cold facts to dismantle the bureaucratic mess that was the U.S.S.R. It's not that Trotsky disagrees with the objectives; he's just highly skeptical of the "new aristocracy" that had built itself upon the dictatorship of the proletariat.
Read this if you are a political junkie.
This is probably one of the most important books on the Soviet Union. If you are interested in its degeneration and the future collapse of the Eastern block, this is the perfect book to start with. As was the case with the most genuine revolutionaries, Trotsky tended to overestimate the revolutionary potential of the masses. In this book he professes that either there will be a new workers' revolution or capitalism will be restored in Russia. Well, guess what happened at the end.
Those who worship the established fact can't prepare for the future.
Ghastly book by one of the few men who might've made the Soviet Union even worse than it was under Stalin.
\(^o^)/
This is clearly a result of my education, but after having read these works, a series of gaps in my knowledge is simultaneously filled, and then, like a muscle at the gym, ripped asunder.
And Trotsky's work read like a familiar text.
In communism, it is the other way around.Trotsky points out all the theoretical problems with Stalinism, and brings in a useful comparison with the French Revolution, a common thread throughout the work, with the Thermidorian reaction to Robespierre explaining what was happening in Russia in the mid-1930s.
This book was interesting and insightful. Although I had studied communism in college (poli sci major here), I never went this in-depth into Russia/Soviet Union. Sort of dry reading, but not too difficult to get through.
Excellent overview of how the bureacracy of the Soviet Union, embodied by Stalin, became a force in itself, which strangled any possible growth towards worker socialism. By the time this book was written, Trotsky was keenly aware of the upcoming world war, and the possible outcomes.
Interesting what he gets right and wrong. Also has a passage (not sure which page as the version I read was an ebook) that seems to be anticipating Hayek's view of prices as an information aggregator (see "The Use of Knowledge in Society")...
Poor Trotsky. I prefer this guy rather than Joseph Stalin. Fuck you Stalin.
Insider's view of the departure of the USSR from socialism. Very insightful.
Of course, the key workers were the Politburo and the bureaucracy that supported it - not least the NKVD.Trotsky was very hostile to religion, so I suspect the gulags under him would have had just as many Baptists and other believers as Stalin's did:"The denial of God, his assistance and his miracles, was the sharpest wedge of all those which the revolutionary power drove between children and parents." p154."Socialism is not ascetic; on the contrary, it is deeply hostile to the asceticism of Christianity.
It is deeply hostile, in its adherence to THIS world, and this only, to all religion." p164.He had the right principle: "The motive force of progress is truth and not lies." p308.
Trotsky is a passionate and very humorous writer - check out this gem from the introduction:"What unites these three categories, despite their differences, is a kowtowing before accomplished fact, and a partiality for sedative generalizations.
To revolt against their own capitalism was beyond these writers.
They are the more ready, therefore, to take their stand upon a foreign revolution which has already ebbed back into its channels.
Before the October revolution, and for a number of years after, no one of these people, nor any of their spiritual forbears, gave a thought to the question how socialism would arrive in the world.
Leiba Bronstein (aka Trotsky) was an excellent demagogue and orator crafty in deceit; he also was one of the most ruthless enemies of the Russian people and Christian church, sadistic killer and rabid agent of Zionism (famous law on death penalty for anyone voicing anti-jewish sentiments); who knows what would happen to the Mother Russia, should he win over Stalin (also not squeamish in eliminating people)?
“Adolf Hitler read Trotsky’s autobiography as soon as it was published.
Hitler’s biographer, Konrad Heiden, tells in ‘Der Fuehrer’ how the Nazi leader surprised a circle of his friends in 1930 by bursting into rapturous praise of Trotsky’s book […] ‘Brilliant!’ cried Hitler, waving Trotsky’s ‘My Life’ at his followers.
Leon Trotsky, a dear comrade to Lenin, written his assessment of the Russian/Bolshevik Revolution 1917, the challenges facing that revolution and how Socialism's bastard child, Stalin betrayed the revolution's main idea. The introduction serves the book well, describing Trotsky’s method while placing his analysis in historical context and tracing its political implications. I hope and I believe 'The Revolution Betrayed' will find a wide readership in coming years. Trotsky, who was expelled from the Soviet Union in 1929, was murdered in 1940 in Mexico by Stalin’s secret police.
This is an excellent book that exposes Stalin as the betrayer of Marxism and demonstrates why the failure of the Soviet Union should not be held up as proof that Communism does not work. (That said, personally I think it was inevitable that a character such as Stalin – or Khrushchev, Brezhnev, Andropov and Chernyenko that followed him – would corrupt the system for their own ends; just read Orwell’s Animal Farm.)
Why did I read this book at all? I always wanted to know what happened, What went wrong, And why people are the one that had to pay for it in the end? Sadly, it seemed to me as if everyone trying to purify themselves and make as much justification as they can. Although the book has some helpful points, but to me, the sad thing is that no reform is ever about people, it can be about many things such as capital, power and influence but not about them.
in this book, trotsky rips stalin a new b-hole so thoroughly that stalin sent the kgb all the way to mexico to put an ice pick in his head. this book talks about how stalin and the soviet bureaucracy are actually closer to a bonapartist dicatorship than anything resembling socialism, wow. my favorite part of the book is where he talks about inequality in capitalist societies being the 'whip' that drives people and hwen he says social phenomena never have a finished character. good stuff
Rather a cold analysis, but not wholly incorrect. It fails to get to the root of many issues it criticises, blaming everything to vague conceptions of 'stalinism' and 'bureaucracy' without analysing their existence itself.I enjoyed it though. I've drifted away from Trotskyism a lot since though.
