https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6558828-room-13
Mystery/romance with twists, making it more interesting. Clean, enjoyable beach /fireside read. Recommended.
From the writer of King Kong comes this somewhat dated and very British crime mystery. It contains counterfeiters, a doddering detective, loads of criminals, a couple of jails, a club for criminals with secret exits and passages, kidnapping by marriage, a man being thrown from a train, poisoning, bigamy, spies, and loads and loads of 1920s British prison slang. Did you know that jail (or “gaol” as they spell it) was referred to as “boob” and that the guards were called “screws”? Our story start
It contains counterfeiters, a doddering detective, loads of criminals, a couple of jails, a club for criminals with secret exits and passages, kidnapping by marriage, a man being thrown from a train, poisoning, bigamy, spies, and loads and loads of 1920s British prison slang.
Our story starts with out hero, Johnny Gray, in prison at the same time as underworld kingpin Emanuel Legge who is the father of Jeff Legge, a counterfeiter known as “The Big Printer”.
From there we soon get the mystery of a near fatal shooting (in Room 13), and more entanglements about the details of how the Big Printer gets the “slush” out.
eread
I found this book so lovely and fun. It is rather simple, yes, but is nice enough. Investigation, crooked men and a girl perhaps too naive, make the story quite amazing.
The marriage of this scoundrel to Marney has been engineered by John's crooked father Emanuel as part of his planned vengeance upon Peter, whom he believes bilked him out of the proceeds of a heist and shopped him to the cops -- like Johnny, Emanuel is not long out of Dartmoor but after a far stiffer sentence.Johnny and Peter must somehow extricate themselves and Marney from this predicament.
For the most part he has a fairly peripheral role in Room 13, coming into his own only in the latter part of the book.Edgar Wallace novels seem rather rare objects in the US -- at least among the libraries of Passaic County, NJ, which between them could muster just two, this and Flat 2 (which I'll be reading shortly).
Unlike anything I've ever read before.
The inverted commas around every instance of slang start to get annoying by the end, but it does mean that anyone can come and read this without any specialist knowledge (I always feel a bit cheated when the plot device turns on something you have to have detailed knowledge for not readily available to the 'man in the street', like having to know the Russian alphabet, or the geography of the author's home town).
I will try to read more of the same if I can.
Edgar Wallace was one of the best writers of his time of adventure thrillers that were also riveting mysteries. Mr. J.G Reeder is a wonderful character. Not a policeman, not a detective, we don't know exactly what he is except that when he is around mysteries are solved, wrongs are righted, secrets are uncovered — all in the service of good. And he does it with such a wilted, tired, disinterested manner that it can't help but be amusing to see the effect on the villains.This was a thoroughly enjoyable, plot twisting mystery.
Blurb from Calibre:"Recently released from prison, John Gray visits his old friend Peter Kane. Although it is the day of his daughter's wedding, Kane agrees to an audience with Emanuel Legg, the criminal and cop-killer with whom he has some business. Gray wanders into the garden and a tornado of fury sweeps through him. The debonair Major Floyd, the new husband to whom Kane has entrusted his precious daughter, is a fraudster of the most sinister kind."
Apart from the typical Wallace mystery presented in this book, there is a further mystery: why the name J.G.Reeder, which became attached to the main character in a series of novels and short stories, appears in the first book in the series to be an assumed name, the name of a different character in the novel. Did Edgar Wallace change his mind? Or has this anything to do with the mind of Mr. J.G.Reeder? :-)
Edgar Wallace was the best selling author in England during the 1920s and 1930s. I got into his books some years ago because his novels were referenced in a PG Wodehouse novel. Murder Mysteries are his genre and this one attained his usual high standard. As is common to many of his novels, you figure out early on who the good guys and the bad guys are. But because of Wallace's great talent as a story-teller that doesn't spoil the mystery or suspense.
Mixed up in a readable wayStrange mix of characters, I lost the plot sometimes, I would have preferred it if the female part had been portrayed as a stronger character, one that was allowed to have thoughts about her life.It all came together in the end and the man got his girl
I thought I'd read this before, but obviously I hadn't, because I don't remember any of it! It's a good solid Edgar Wallace mystery, full of crime, mystery and romance (with a healthy dose of misunderstanding en route, of course).
A really great book with a resolution that I certainly didn't expect :!
Featuring Wallace's great detective, Mr J. G. Reede. Wallace is under-appreciated today.
A bit hard to get into, unless you're familiar with gangster talk of early 20th century England. But the story got better, with a nice twist at the end.
Dekkari vuodelta 1924...Suomennos on tahattoman koomista sotkua nykyiseen kirjakieleen verrattuna, mutta kirja imaisee yllättävästi mukaansa varsinkin loppupuolella.
Klasik bir İngiliz polisiyesi. 1920'lerin gangster dünyasında geçiyor. Zevkli bir okumaydı.
