https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/879281.A_New_Model_of_the_Universe
Never before have I encountered all these topics and theories in one publication.
This is a fascinating read for someone whose interest is piqued by the metaphysical, theories of the universe, consciousness, and esoteric knowledge.
It's like the Costco of New Age ideas, all under one cover, and for subjects and explanations that were crafted as long ago as the 1920s (pre-Internet), Ouspensky is adequately able to convey his ideas through practical examples in an especially relevant, post-modern way.
Instead, it's a much more manageable collection of odd opinions.Writing in the early 20th century, Ouspensky talks about the Gospels and Tarot, geometry and relativity, and opines on magic, dreams, contemplation, reincarnation, and time.
All cultures remember "the good old days"; thus, these better times really existed, and this is proof that cultures only degenerate.
This is the "inner circle" of humanity that devotes itself to learning esoteric knowledge.
Ouspensky devotes several pages to claiming that there were once large ants and bees (because some ancient writers mentioned them in stories) but they weren't spiritual enough so they have since been downgraded to little insects that serve only their collective.
Dense material, more like a reference book; not for 'beginners' to such material.
Lovely chapter near the end of the book describing his travels to Egypt, India, Ceylon-- it will put you right there, in his shoes!
For all his intellectual writing in earlier chapters of the book, this one chapter is something that could have inspired any adventure tale or Indiana Jones outing.
Very vivid descriptions indeed.His other material is very thought-provoking.
One need not read with the idea of "buying into" anything...
This book contained some really stimulating ideas, especially considering the time period in which is was written...
This is a great book well worth reading, parts get a little tricky but it is very useful to expand your understanding of what and thinking is, Ouspensky has a sorta sort of friendly, "in the room talking with you or to you" style of writing ... I really enjoyed this book, started to reread a second time.
Woah.
This book is a rare combination of relativistic physics, ancient Eastern teachings, esoteric teachings of Jesus Christ in the Holy Gospels, the fourth, fifth and sixth dimension, time and space, the eternal return, tarot, yoga. All this combination of issues in an attempt to unify under a new model of the universe that provides a unifying view of reality. After reading this book, you will no longer see reality as before, you will see it in a different way, (if you really caught the essence of Ouspensky thought: The fourth way).
It's wide open baby!
I would love to be able to hear his thoughts on the last 100 years. I'm not sure I'd recommend it if you weren't already familiar with him and Gurdjieff. There's a lot here and much of the scientific material is simply outdated but I wouldn't tell you not to read it based on that alone.
This is not going to be easy to describe. From its title you could guess that it was some weirdo's baseless pseudo-philosophical ramblings, and you wouldn't be far off. Ouspensky does a near adequate job of folding in (what was, at the time) cutting-edge science into a spiritual soup, but you could by no means call it scientific, more like fantasies on a scientific theme. Still, I would definitely recommend reading this for anyone interested in unusual ways of thinking, or anyone interested in writing sci-fi or fantasy novels with bizarre premises.
Libro que nos aclara un contexto de la antigüedad donde el arte, la religión y la música eran una sola cosa, y que nos habla de como cada uno se ha ido deformando hasta diluirse y perder la esencia misma de todas las doctrinas religiosas, un analisis psicologico de como el hombre ha cambiado y ha adoptado estas creencias diluidas a su vida.
not his best work
Amazing Theosopher- Read it.
Didn't read it cover to cover, but there are a lot of great ideas and it provides a very unifying framework for a lot of big concepts.
Useful
fascinating on all levels. this book put me in a headlock and wouldn't let go!
