https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631177.Mystery_of_Crocodile_Island
As the next-to-last book in the Nancy series, Crocodile Island falls flat, even though the story formula is calculated to win.
The girls go on location to Florida.
Usually on-location Nancy Drew has more chance for adventure!
Absolutely pick up this book anytime regardless, because come on, it's Nancy Drew!
And who knows, maybe it needs a second read, especially if you need to remind yourself of the difference between alligators and crocodiles, because without a doubt, explanations are here!One odd memorable bit for me: a person's name is mentioned, but he never really appears in the plot.
I was really hoping someone would get eaten by an alligator.
This time, Nancy Drew is off to Crocodile Island in Florida with her friends, Bess and George.
The three attempt to find out the mystery behind a crocodile farm, in which Carson Drew's friend is a major stakeholder.
Of course, they get kidnapped, chased by crooks, and almost become crocodile food.
And ultimately, they rescue the poor people and get the criminals caught.
Nancy doesn't seem to do anything much in this story and all their sleuthing are basically for nothing because it's the authorities who ultimately catch the criminals.
Even Bess manages to subdue a dangerous smuggler by doing basically nothing.
What can I say that I haven't already said about this series? It's great fun.
Nancy Drew returns in another thrilling addition to the classic book series.
This is one of my favorite Nancy Drew books! There was more humor in this one than there is in the other books of the series, which I enjoyed. It helped the lighten the mystery. This book also did a good job of keeping the reader interested. Carolyn Keene included plenty of suspense. From almost being attacked by crocodiles to receiving mysterious phone calls, Nancy and her friends encounter plenty of surprises on their trip to Florida. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys the Nancy Drew series, or mystery books in general.
I confess I squeezed this fast read in this afternoon to get my year-end total up (success!). I haven't read a Nancy Drew in years. I was struck by the utter lack of mystery and plot twists, and, for an 180-page book, a staggering amount of loose ends. But it was a very fun read, and it comes from a defiantly pre-helicopter-parenting era when a lawyer would think nothing of sending his teenage daughter down to the Florida Keys on her own to battle homicidal smugglers.
Carson Drew dreams up yet another ingenious way of seeing off his smart alec daughter. Having recently been to see Live & Let Die at the cinema, this time it was death by crocodiles. I used to devour these at a ridiculous rate when I was young, and was a bit disappointed coming back to this one 15 years later. The characters are so cardboard and the stories so predictable.
Nancy and her friends Bes and George get involved with a mystery at Crocodile Island. Crocodile Island is located in the Florida Keys. Nancy and her friends wonted to prove that the operators of Crocodile Island were doing something illegal. After Nancy was kidnapped, threatened, and hold for ransom, Nancy discovered that the criminals were smuggling cameras out of the country. They sold them in Mexico. The criminals were caught and went to jail, and then Nancy and her friends went back home.
Not my favourite theme, being about crocodiles, but I should have figured that out from the title. I did enjoy the familiarity of the plot lines you find in this series & would recommend if you have enjoyed other Nancy Drew. I don’t think its one that will stick with me & probably won’t reread. The ending felt very rushed.
I found this book in a beautiful vintage bookshop in Galway, Ireland when I went there with school. This book follows Nancy and her friends as they're trying to solve the mystery of the crocodile island in Florida. It was very entertaining, but unfortunately not as clever as I had imagined.Still, I really had a great time reading it and I'm going to continue reading Nancy Drew books.
Don't be fooled by the great cover art! This is the worst of the Drew novels I have read this far. The author clearly ran out of paper and doesn't even explain how the critical action resolves! Skip this amputated adolescent novel.
This Nancy Drew adventure was perfect book to re-read on vacation in Florida this summer! There were surprises and fun in the story. I enjoyed the book and loved how Nancy stayed spunky and smart while relying on others. Great story!
Although very improbable, I loved this action-packed mystery. Nancy Drew will always catch her villain, man, woman, or child! (Not that children are normally her “bad guy”...) I personally recommend this book to any one who’s searching for a good mystery!
I didn't feel like Nancy Drew really solved this mystery. It was more like she was present when new information was given. It was still a fun adventure.
Nancy and her friends, Bess and George, go to Florida to solve a case. Another fun Nancy Drew mystery.
This one ended rather abruptly.
Not terrible but not all that good. The writing is borderline bad and the story not very plausible.
Fairly typical Nancy Drew, only set in Florida. Some interesting local background details.
The use of pseudonyms was a good idea but poorly used, since they only used then about half the time, and half of that they shouldn't have. The mystery otherwise held together fairly well, though.
I think that this book was not the best of the classic Nancy Drew that we know, but Nancy Drew can never be bad.
This was a good story, even if some of the adventures were a little unbelievable and how easy she manages to get out of tricky situations.
Pro: first book in a long time that didn't describe Bess as overweightCon: several references to half-breed Indians
In chapter one, George buys a rubber crocodile from a joke shop, then the owner calls her and tells her they gave her a real one by mistake.
Since joke shops are overrun with real crocodiles?
The first chapters of these books are SO non-sequitur.GEORGE'S NAME IS GEORGIA.
It takes fifty-five books to clarify this.
Anyway, the secret of crocodile island is that people are smuggling (view spoiler)[ high-speed cameras into Mexico.
And this is another book where there is zero plot until the last chapter or two.
Mystery of Crocodile Island  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 55th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew's attempts to uncover a group of poachers on Crocodile Island in Florida involve her and her friends with kidnapping, reptiles, enemy boats, and a sinister racket. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young gi
Nancy Drew's attempts to uncover a group of poachers on Crocodile Island in Florida involve her and her friends with kidnapping, reptiles, enemy boats, and a sinister racket.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
More like 2.5 stars.
One really must be in a certain mood to enjoy Nancy Drew, and I guess I wasn't today.
Even had to stretch it out over a few days because this one was a bit over-the-top, even for Keene!
Still, always nice to time travel back to the days before cell phones and internet, back when parents let their kids roam around town on their own.
Granted, how old is Nancy here?
End of high school, beginning of college?
Hopefully old enough since her dad ships her to Florida to investigate an island of crocodiles where something is going wrong!
As a child, I loved reading the Nancy Drew books. My grandma got my sister and I reading them and for a while those were the only books we read. I loved reading this one because it took place in Florida which was where I lived until I was 17 so reading a book that took place where I was from was so cool to me. It was a mystery book, as they all are, about Nancy Drew trying to figure out what this company is selling and what they're into because they suspect illegal activity.
I read Nancy Drew as a girl, and still read them to my kids. We have read straight from #1 through to Crocodile Island. Many of them have been wonderfully written, exciting and usually a little predictable. Crocodile Island was not one of my favorites, a bit choppy and the last chapter had a contradictory wrap-up with a certain detail not jiving with info from a couple pages previous! That said I am certain to recommend the series, just not this particular book to a new reader of Nancy.
This book is a good mystery book because the setting was cool. The setting is Florida, where an island called Crocodile Island is conducting mysterious business. One of the owners suspects that his partners are not telling him everything that is going on. Nancy, Bess and George go to investigate the island and come across some nasty people.
