https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2003625.Dark_Desires_After_Dusk
In any case, I just didn't connect with this story like I have the others.This book centers on Holly, a not quite transitioned immortal, who is the "vessel".
This OCD, sheltered, twenty-something university instructor is about to have her tidy life turned upside down.If you've read the earlier books in the series, you probably remember Cadeon as the cursed demon that is viewed as responsible for the loss of his brother's crown.
His entire life revolves around regaining the throne that he lost.Cadeon has been watching over Holly for quite some time.
At the same time, it's still far better than many of the books I've read.
“Gods, I love it when you talk mathy to me.” Cadeon Woede was very hot in the last book, but frankly, he's kinda bleak for me when it comes to this book. Dark Desires After Dusk promised the butterflies in my stomach when I started reading the very first chapter, Cadeon's appearance stole my breath away and Holly was the heroine that I liked very much, she's so typical and easygoing, especially I loved her mind when the problems plow her. “One last question.”“Very well, dearling.” “Can I trust
Cadeon Woede was very hot in the last book, but frankly, he's kinda bleak for me when it comes to this book.
Dark Desires After Dusk promised the butterflies in my stomach when I started reading the very first chapter, Cadeon's appearance stole my breath away and Holly was the heroine that I liked very much, she's so typical and easygoing, especially I loved her mind when the problems plow her.
“One last question.”“Very well, dearling.” “Can I trust Cadeon?” Nïx gave her a sunny smile withblank golden eyes.
Cadeon Woede (Demon) & Holly Ashwin (Human/Valkyrie)What I have learned from this book about demons:1. Demons love to corrupt young virgins.2. Demons always lie to get what they want, i.e. “Never trust a demon, love….”3. Demons don’t kiss and tell, i.e. “What happens with the demon, stays with the demon.”4. Demons have “lickable horns”; according to Valkyrie Nïx.The story of -the naïve halfling Holly Ashwin who thought that she was a human until she wasn’t a human anymore and -the cocky demo
Cadeon Woede (Demon) & Holly Ashwin (Human/Valkyrie)What I have learned from this book about demons:1.
Demons love to corrupt young virgins.2.
Demons always lie to get what they want, i.e.
“Never trust a demon, love….”3.
Demons don’t kiss and tell, i.e.
Demons have “lickable horns”; according to Valkyrie Nïx.The story of -the naïve halfling Holly Ashwin who thought that she was a human until she wasn’t a human anymore and -the cocky demon Cadeon Woede who though that he was a ruthless, heartless demon until he wasn’t ruthless and heartless anymore.Or the story of the shy virgin and the naughty bastard
He stripped off her top, then his shirt. “Are you coming on to me to get back at him?”“Probably.” Down went his zipper.“I’m okay with that.”  Dark Desires After Dusk is another amazing installment of the Immortals After Dark series: it is full of humor, love, sensuality, and thrilling adventures.Cadeon is an irresistible character. He is cocky and playful. He is an unscrupulous mercenary, but at the same time he is infinitely devoted and thoughtful. The way he handles Holly’s disease is really
Dark Desires After Dusk is another amazing installment of the Immortals After Dark series: it is full of humor, love, sensuality, and thrilling adventures.Cadeon is an irresistible character.
The way he handles Holly’s disease is really great.
My heart bled for him, for his sufferings, loss, and guilt.Holly’s character, her OCD, and her development are absolutely credible (except (view spoiler)[her virginity (hide spoiler)]…).
She is not alone with this, by the way, and I’m so glad there is this latent Valkyrie thing, because it means I could be one!
I mean, I have all the necessary characteristics: I love jewelry, fashion, and I can scream.
But to the author's credit, she had Holly resist Cade's charms for most of the book; she had a real love/hate relationship with him.
She was attracted to him and she wanted him, yet she hated that she did.I loved how Cade taught Holly how to protect herself and how to fight, and helped ease her transition into becoming a Valkyrie.
It was non-stop action!And although Cade did betray Holly, I wanted her to forgive him (I did), and I absolutely loved how he still made allowances for her OCD when he presented her with her future home.
4 1/2 stars Dark Desires After Dusk is another fantastic book in the Immortals After Dark series.
I loved almost everything about this book.
I'm sure you're wondering why I gave this book a somewhat lower rating if I loved it so much.
I wanted more...
Did Cade and Holly get their happy ending?
She is my favorite character of the series and I look forward to her involvement in each book.
Call me crazy, but I would love to see Nïx get her man, Mike Rowe, the host of the American's TV series Dirty Jobs.
Now, add to this already great fact Kresley Cole's ability to tell a story she weaves so masterfully about a couple that is, once again, very unique and just overall fabulous, sprinkle the sexual tension that only Kresley can do and you got yourself a winner with every single installment [in this series].I don't have much to say that I haven't already said about this series in my previous reviews other than I am adding Cade and Holly to my ever growing list of Kresley's 'swoon-worthy heroes and kick ass heroines that love them'.
Cade was Yummy as SinHe gets 4.5 Sexy, Cocky Stars!!!CadeCade has been blessed with impossibly green eyes and thick locks of blonde hair.
Cade has been living with the guilt of losing his brother's crown over nine hundred years ago.
Cade was so used to women falling at his feet that he was not prepared for Holly.
Oh and when Holly finally accepts Cade into her life.
Cade was so sexy and I loved his cocky ass personality.
I especially loved watching him cater to Holly's quirking and bizarre needs.
Mild Spoilers3.5 Stars This one was not as good for me as the others I have read in this series.
I had a very hard time connecting to Holly or Cade.
Holly got on my nerves with her I don't cuss I don't have sexual feelings of any kind I have a boyfriend of two year but I don't even kiss him on the mouth oh and I don't eat or drink anything the isn't prepackaged and I if i touch the rim of my drinks it ruined.
Even if I could get past that Cade lied the whole story and H
I had a very hard time connecting to Holly or Cade.
Even if I could get past that Cade lied the whole story and His betrayals were hard to get over.
I understand that in the story he was between a rock and a hard place but it just don't make for a very romantic story.............
I really liked cade in other books but not so much in this one.
I am a sucker for babies in love stories so I did rate it a little higher because of the baby.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads.After three superb installments, this series hit a bit of a snag with book 4, but I wasn’t going to hold that against Kresley Cole or Robert Petkoff, and I’m glad I didn’t because DARK DESIRES AFTER DUSK was glorious!
One of the things that I love most about IMMORTALS AFTER DARK is that you meet some of the protagonists beforehand because on top of giving you something to look forward to, it also helps to get readers invested in each character’s eventual outcome.Holly wasn’t the first heroine whom I’ve encountered that’s been afflicted with OCD, however she was by far the most likable.
Why the hell is Rydstrom thought to be the "good brother".I can honestly remember that I liked Ry by the end of his book but in this one?
Rydstrom decides that sacrificing an innocent young woman to a sorcerer to be raped and impregnated with a child that makes the girl from Orphan seem like an angel, is acceptable collateral damage to get his throne back, even though this means the woman will be doomed and his brother will be miserable forever.Really?
He would fight to find another way.That's all, no more Anti-Rydstrom ranting, I'm off to re-read his book and forgive him!
Meh. It was okay.Since I don't have anything else to say, here's some mancandy:Bwhahahaha! Kidding!Okay, because I feel bad about tricking you like that, I'll give you...A vampire viking taking a hot bath.Forgiven?
I had been captivated with Cade since Wicked Deeds on a Winter's Night, and I was holding my breath for his book.
This book was also a good action book with scenes that show that Holly is a powerful woman in her own right.
I loved his devotion to Holly, and how he challenged her but cared for her at the same time.
It was great to see Holly come into the woman she was meant to be.
Cade and Holly had some serious chemistry, but there was also a deep emotional connection.
This book just further increased my love of this series.
Apparently we Psychology majors are too snobby to realize that the cure is simple: Take a demon with sexy and lickable rock-hard horns as your mate!Plus, Cade does such an amazing job caring for Holly.
Holly is a sweet little virgin who just happens to be half Fury and Valkyrie and Cade is a foul-mouthed bad boy who must control his baser needs.
Damn, that horn job scene with Desh was hilarious!In the end, I forgave Cade for his actions because he’s such a sweet guy.
I will admit, I thought the end closed a little too quickly but maybe that was because I wanted to read more about them.
3.5 stars
You can't say I'm not persistent. Even if it does take me forever to get anywhere. Sarah and I started this buddy read back in 2014, in anticipation of the release of Book 15 ...in August of that year, I read Book 3. In February of this year, I read Book 4. Now it's only December and I've re-read book 6! Woot! Progress! Maybe we can actually get caught up in time for the release of Book 18...So, I think by now it's fairly clear that I like these books despite quite a few things that would normal
Maybe we can actually get caught up in time for the release of Book 18...So, I think by now it's fairly clear that I like these books despite quite a few things that would normally make me rage.
Regardless, or maybe because of, all the pain, trauma, deceit and conflict that's come before.And I feel like I start every one of these book reviews off talking about the series in general.
I didn't know how they were going to get out of it, how they were going to stay together, and I was rooting for any way except the way that was sure to cause the most pain.Sometimes there are no good paths.But Holly and Cade manage despite it all.
Rereading because Cade is bae AF I was going to skip Rydstrom's book but now I'm so curious! What did she do to him?!? What's wrong with him? I was going to jump onto Regin's book but I guess I'm reading them in order now.
Check out this and my other reviews at My Blog, Facebook, Google+, Twitter and Pinterest★Book Basics★  Genre : - Paranormal Romance  Series : - Sixth in the series.  Love triangle?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] Cheating?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] HEA? -  (view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)] Would I read more by this author/or in this series?  - Yes Rating  - 5 stars★Review★I think Cadeon is so far my favourite hero.Despite the whole losing his brothers kingdom and tortured past t
: - Sixth in the series.
- (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)]
- (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)]
(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]
- 5 stars★Review★I think Cadeon is so far my favourite hero.Despite the whole losing his brothers kingdom and tortured past thing he had going on , he came across a bit more fun easygoing at times than the previous heroes in the series.
The rake hero with a bad past, a little bit naughty and foul mouthed, falling in love with the innocent virgin he thinks he does not deserve as he is a bad man, when in reality he is just misunderstood!
She then brings on the bad boy English Demon that wears leather.
Greta's demon sex slave) is a blonde scruffy nom that wears a beaten up leather jacket and one of those motorcycle caps (OMG!
U want to read this book.I first met Cade (aka -- His horns belong to GRETA) in Cole's book "No Rest for the Wicked".
Now, if we think back to that book (diddily doo diddilly doo --- 10 points to whoever can figure out what movie I'm ripping off hahas) I was dying for a demon book.
cuz there were 2 demons in that book and squee!!
He never strayed from the character we've come to know from the previous books, but managed to charm me and make me care for him.Holly however, was another matter.
I didn't like her but I didn't dislike her either.
I felt that Cole stressed her OCD too much and left every other aspect of her personality hidden, so I didn't know who she was in the end.
A great addition in the series and one I read in record time.Warning: the ending is more or less a cliffhanger so this should be read with Rydstrom's book already in the TBR:)
I don’t see Cade looking like that AT ALL and another thing, where are his horns?
As she headed for the bathroom, she gave him the evilest eye she could muster….With a sigh, she asked, “Why do you care if I believe you or not?”“Because if you think I got a leg over with that slag, then the chance of anything sexual with you will be drastically reduced.”Without looking up, she said, “Cadeon, a chance can’t be reduced from zero.”“Gods, I love it when you talk mathy to me.”“Do you honestly want credit because you didn’t do anything to a helpless female?”“No!
The love story was great but I just couldn't accept Holly cheating on Tim even though he wasn't that great a guy.
I felt like Cole wrote that in so we wouldn't hate Holly.
But no.You weren't single when you started things up with Cade.And CADE.You complete and utter cad.
Obviously the big baddie wouldn't be so easy to defeat, that he wouldn't have some things in place for if you planned to do what you did...
I was mad.I did like the overall plot of this but it wasn't what I was expecting for this story.
And don't get me started on Rydstrom.....so not excited for him and that twat-muffin.
Story Rating 5 starsCharacter Rating 5 starsRomance Rating 4 starsImagination 5 starsHeat Level 3.5 starsAction Level 5 starsOverall Rating 5 starsFavorite Character, CadeonI've never read this many book's in a series back to back where they have not started sounding the same.
I can also say that I really don't have a favorite book at this point, they have all been fantastic reads.
I have to say once more that the imagination that KC used in this book was phenomenal.
The action scenes were awesome and KC came up with some really interesting Demon's, ghosts and evil creatures throughout this book.
Of course book 7, LOL.
Cadeon Woede finally has to make a move on Holly Ashwin, the woman he's been stalking and obsessed with, now that she was attacked and is in extreme danger.
Problem is, she's the key to him atoning for Rydstrom's loss of his throne and Cadeon is torn between his desire for his mate and familial loyalty.
This was an exciting and fun ride with lots of action and intrigue.
Holly's obsessive compulsions was the first clue she might be a halfling and Cade's sensitivity to them helped redeem his boorish behavior.
They make the perfect couple as they couldn't be more extreme in difference.
Almost the whole book is all Cadeon and Holly travelling and trying to stay alive interrupted with sexy times.
For example, she is reading about some of the people from the Lore and finds the entry about Emmaline the Unlikely 'who slew her own father.
I like Emmaline already.' We are told how her father was a wonderful man and that her parents had a great marriage and loved each other.
You spend most of the book waiting for the inevitable to happen.
That combined with the annoying heroine could be the reason why this ended up being just a bit better than an okay story.
4.5 starsMy second favorite IAD book.Cadeon Woede is on a quest to help recover a mystical sword which was crafted to kill a specific immortal, who stole Cadeon's brother Rydstroms kingdom.Everyone blames Cadeon's for the loss and he has spent the last 900 years trying to atone.Imagine Cadeon's dilemma when he learns the price for the sword is his fated female Holly Ashwin.
To get his Rydstrom's kingdom back, he would have to trade his female for the sword.
What's a demon to do?This was one of the most straightforward IAD books I've listened to in a while.
Quick review:Cover: Hot Rating:  NC-17Steaminess:  Smokin’ Thumbs Up:  4.5Overall: Entertaining and sexy as hell.
What more could you want?Characters: Well WrittenPlot: Too goals intersect, which one will rule out the otherPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: CadeonSUMMARY (50 words or less)I mean well worth the price of admission.
I was thoroughly entertained.
Cadeon really made this book.
I liked him in a previous book, so it was a real treat to get all of him here.
He’s kept up the character’s individual voices throughout the series even though we change main POVs in each book.
Cade is one hot honey with his sexier than sexy South African accent and Holly just shines alongside him!
He's rough around the edges but god does he ever know how to make her happy :D The sexual tension is there from the get go building right up to an explosion, lots of snippy dialog and banter between the characters.
Sends the reader right through the roof!
Nix is a scream and you’re left with a bit of a cliffhanger wondering what Cole plans to do with Rydstrom and Sabine.
The story comes together very well, you can just see it all unfold and suddenly you’re reading until 3am!
A wonderful romantic tale, with witty dialogue, great heroines and of course fantastic alpha males."Tarts?" Her jaw slackened. "My God, you're the most misogynistic man I've ever met. I bet you also like your tarts, barefoot and pregnant.""Nah, I like them barefoot, on birth control, and always available in my bed."Cadeon This book definitely had me smiling all the way through, it's a real treat! Enjoy!
5++ starsAfter being extremely disappointed with the previous book in the series, I put off reading this one for almost a year. I could kick myself now, because this is hands down the best book of the series so far.Unlike with the last book, Dark Needs At Night's Edge, this story flowed perfectly. There was the perfect blend of action, humor, and sexual tension between the main characters. I devoured it in less than 10 hours, and I can't wait to dive right into book 7. *4-Alarm Hotness Warning* Cade is simply to die for.
