https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260352.Acid_Dreams

I got this as a gift from someone whose taste I trust implicitly, so read it despite not having had much interest in LSD since high school (when, frankly, I had a fairly serious and highly personal interest in the compound).
It's a beautifully written account of the role LSD played in the social and psychological upheavals of the '60s.
They're clearly in the pro-acid, anti-establishment camp, and their hippie advocacy puts something of a damper on an otherwise great investigation of the heretofore underexamined link between this particular drug and the politics of liberation.On the whole, a very good read.
This book was really nostalgic and interesting to read, and a worthwhile piece of history in the hippie counterculture of the late 1960's. Acid Dreams is well-written, detailed, illustrated and even includes hippie trivia (I'm not a hippie but it was interesting to read).
This book was somewhat interesting but didn’t really live up to its subtitle—“The Complete Social History of LSD: The CIA, the Sixties, and Beyond.” It conveys something…ambitious.
They did touch on some important things, though, like how the CIA smuggled heroin inside corpses of dead soldiers coming back from Vietnam, and the class politics of LSD usage.Also, the authors talk around the sexism and homophobia in the drug subculture but never call it that.
The history of LSD is about as wild as you'd expect, ranging from the first CIA-spearheaded acid tests of the 1950s to the violent radicalism of the mysterious Weathermen fifteen years later to the quiet bust of enigmatic international kingpin Ronald Stark in the 1980s.
It's a surprisingly lucid narrative and while it's not entirely objective (it's impossible not to detect a wistful fondness for old Lucy in the Sky in Lee and Shlain's rhetoric) it's commendably comprehensive.
So if you have a hankering for some psychedelic non-fiction, tune in, turn on, and drop by the bookstore.
These gentlemen did their homework and I am proud to have not only read their research but purchased new copies of their book more than 20x to send out to those who were led to believe the media lies of the 60s.
Their documentation is perfect and succinct.The 60s movement could have worked.
Now the methods remain as my legacy in 4 novels to build a more perfect union.
Hear the Calliope: A sentimental journey on the EarthRide (Vol 1) The 60s Indian style http://newbookjournal.com/2011/07/hea...
Legacy: Let the games begin (Vol 2) Haudenosaunee overthrow http://newbookjournal.com/2011/07/leg...Reason Void of Reason: Spirituality honeymoon style (Vol 3) Iroquois erotica http://newbookjournal.com/2011/07/rea...BREATHE:NOUMENON (Vol 4) REVENGE; the only satisfying song http://newbookjournal.com/2011/07/bre...
The subtitle of this book says "The complete social history of LSD: the CIA, the sixties, and beyond." In a nutshell, this is an entirely accurate summary.
Lee and Shlain trace the strange journey of LSD from an experimental military chemical, to a psychiatric wonderdrug, to a driving forces of the 60s counter-culture, and possibly its demise.
This book is more journalistic than academic, but it is deeply sourced and informed.
The authors are pro-psychedelic but fully recognize the limits of chemical enlightenment, and how the flashbulb cosmic glow of LSD inspired a revolution that blossomed in the headlines but failed to hold the streets.
A fascinating history of one of the most powerful chemicals ever synthesized, the government agencies that tried unsuccessfully to turn it into a weapon and then, even less successfully, to contain it after the proverbial genie was out of the bottle.
Timothy Leary, Ken Kesey, Albert Hoffman and Aldous Huxley and several other well-known characters whose lives were inextricably linked to the story of LSD, make their expected appearances, some more fleshed out than others.
We are also introduced to some less-infamous characters whose lives would make epic bio-pics all their own (none more so than the larger-than-life Captain Al Hubbard).
I recall first reading about this book in an advertisement in the then-weekly, now-defunct Guardian weekly out of New York City.
Years later I actually found the book and snapped it up, reading it almost immediately.
Much of the most important--and disturbing--material, however, concerns the involvement of the CIA and its many subsidiary "cover" organizations in the investigation and utilization of such drugs both on its own people, often without consent, and on, as they say, "unwitting civilians".
Much of the most entertaining material concerns the (probably?) unintended consequences of the drugs escaping into the broader culture.
The people who had cosmic visions of ecstasy on LSD saw it as a potential liberator of consciousness.
Many people who had peak experiences with the transcendent realm felt this is something that they had to give to humankind.
Some like the pranksters with a more artistic than messianic vision saw it as a way to create artistic happenings and push the envelope of culture.
It grew to fast and caused a lot of trouble until it finally imploded at the end of the sixties but not before it altered American culture for good.
This book covers that sweep of cultural change brought about by a synthetic molecule.
I'm one of those weirdos who does not find the prospect of doing LSD or other drugs in a recreational fashion interesting at all.
It was with a lot of surprise that I found that I enjoyed this book!
It is impeccably researched, well-written, and, in parts, terrifying (particularly in the early chapters, which cover the CIA's quest to find a "truth serum" and its efforts to that end, including MK-ULTRA).
Anyone who is interested in the 1960s (warts and all), the less-savory aspects of government research (as I am), or the social aspects of drug use should give this fast-paced narrative a try.
Breif: This was a mind clenching book for it was mostly about conspiracys done by the CIA in the United States of America to find a truth Serium.
Our national intelligence went into Iraq after proposing that weapons of mass-destruction were threatening the United States.
There were 600 hired Nazi scientists that were pardoned for all their war crimes while residing at concentration camps, but not only were they pardoned they received a high government status, a highly paid jobs, and a lifelong pension for the rest of their life and their families.
This is why we can't have nice things.
It mostly takes place in the U.S. The story we Gen Xers learned in the 1980s is mostly focused on the social revolution of the in-living-color 1960s, where LSD played a role in making young people grow their hair long, protest against the government with regard to the Vietnam War, Civl Rights, explore Eastern forms of spirituality and practice what they euphemistically dubbed "free love." Of course, growing up in the Reagan 1980s, we were subject more to the downside than the upside of all of this, so hearing LSD as a teenager instantly put thoughts of losing one's mind and jumping off a building thinking one could fly, or of running off and joining a cult of killers led by a madman like Charles Manson.But this book sets the record straight and what was most fascinating was learning about its history before it was made illegal in the 1966, about how the governments of the world in the post-World War II era were seeking truth serums for espionage purposes and how LSD was one of the drugs they investigated.
For instance, I've heard Albert Hoffman, the "discoverer" of LSD was an agent, but this book doesn't mention it.
I've heard the same about Timothy Leary, but that's not mentioned either.
My own acid years are long past, but it still freaks me out to think of all the trips I took never knowing the CIA had a hand in any of it, that Timothy Leary, Ken Kesey, Allen Ginsberg, the Beatles and all the other countercultural action heroes got their drugs second- or third-hand from the secret government, knowingly or otherwise.
A) The CIA tried to develop LSD as a truth serum and possible weapon, experimenting with the drug on themselves, prisoners, “volunteers,” and eventually paying junkie prostitutes to lure men from San Francisco bars to a brothel that was actually a CIA lab, where the unsuspecting men would be dosed with LSD and secretly observed.B) LSD played a major role in the rebellious youth culture of the ‘60s.If you chose the first option, you’ll likely be frustrated by the front-loaded structure of “Acid Dreams,” an otherwise well-written and interesting work.
This book has a little bit of that history but most of its length is an account of the LSD culture of the 1960s...a story told better in Storming Heaven, by Jay Stevens.
the first person to go clear in the young church of Scientology and who owned a tarot deck annotated by Aleister Crowley, looks like one of those weird linchpin cultural figures whose life bridged many strange paths, espionage, old-time occultism, and psychedelics.
Someone should definitely write his biography.Mostly, I found this book a good account of another era in the ongoing flight from reason, a chronicle of the creation of a new reality, whether one built on chemicals or designed by deliberate, sometimes clumsy manipulation of a generation.
Although this is called a " social history of LSD" it might be more correctly considered a socio-political history;it contains quite a bit of information on CIA/Military testing of LSD,as well as the various financial and legal ramifications that the distribution of the drug inevitably created.
This book, along with "Storming Heaven" by Jay Stevens, are the best general histories of LSD.
If you prefer a social/political perspective, you will probably prefer "Acid Dreams"; "Storming Heaven" has a more social/spiritual point of view.
Acid Dreams has more social commentary from the authors, while Jay Stevens prefers to tell the story with minimal personal bias.
Re-read, 10/2018: This remains a fantastic document of LSD and its interaction with the world.
Focusing more on government involvement and less on the Leary/Kesey social aspect, it weaves a comprehensive story.
this book is a fantastic introduction to the history of lsd, from its invention by albert hoffman through the early '70s.
with a focus more on its social use, from c.i.a. testing through the acid tests, and very little attention paid to the effects/benefits of the drug, this reads much more like a great story than a scientific study.
there are much more detailed accounts of lsd/hallucinogens out there, but that doesn't stop this one from being great.
The history of LSD is full of fascinating characters and episodes, and this book covers it very well. It gives an accessible, comprehensive and well-researched overview of the culture surrounding acid from its discovery and early studies in the 1950s to the psychedelic revolution of the 1960s. It's an enlightening read, and a very fun one – Tim Leary's life, for instance, is much more interesting than I'd have thought. It's just a shame that the book is nearly thirty years old, and thus does not cover recent developments in drug culture.
A real eye-opener. I sometimes judge a book on how much it teaches and informs, and this is one of the best. Because of this book, I'm now much more tuned-in about the drug culture and the convoluted history that surrounds it. If you wish to better understand the spirit and soul of the 1960's, read this book!
Great- objective history of LSD and its effect on society from the 40s-70s
For every landmark of beauty and optimism we also find tumultuous follies and at times acts of unadulterated evil.
It should be required reading for anyone with an interest in psychedelics, and even those without particular interest will come away with a wealth of food for thought.Note: As a general rule I don't award anything 5/5 until I've had some time to think about it and possibly read a second time.
As it is I've just finished this book, but when the time comes to bump up some new 5s, this will be a prime contender.
In this sense, this book is an awesome journey onto that now much unknown succession of events that had so much influence on the world that we are still living today.
Plus, by being written at a not too distant timeframe from those happenings, it still carries very tangible echoes of those times and expectations, and by this being much more alive than if it was researched and published today.
It’s still beating with the beats of those now much more distant and, in a sense, more critically understood and much less revered times.
This book was of course originally published in the 1980s, so it's probably not the first source to learn about the role of LSD in last 30 years.
But I had no idea the beginnings were so wild & full of wacky ideas even from the CIA's side.Contents:(view spoiler)[Lee MA (1985) (14:44) Acid Dreams - The Complete Social History of LSD - the CIA, the Sixties, and BeyondAcknowledgmentsIntroduction: Whose Worlds Are These?
What a Field Day for the Heat– Prisoner of LSD– A Bitter Pill– The Great LSD ConspiracyPostscript: Acid and AfterAfterwordReferencesBibliographyIndex (hide spoiler)]
On the other hand, it might tell more about me as a reader than about the quality of the book.
I’m more familiar with books with theoretical frames on the background.
But still, I would recommend this for those interested in psychedelic culture and social movements on the sixties.
For those who specificly enjoyed to learn about the crucial characters such as Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert, I’d recommend “The Harvard Psychedelic Club: How Timothy Leary, Ram Dass, Huston Smith, and Andrew Weil Killed the Fifties and Ushered in a New Age for America” by Don Lattin.
I’ve spent eight months dipping in and out of this book and enjoyed nearly all of it. I think the long slow way I took it was in part down to just ‘having had enough’ of the shallow hedonism of the various 60s hippy groups even though the anecdotes about them are thoroughly entertaining. I regularly sent excerpts to friends as I sat aghast reading words about LSD laced doorknobs and so on.A cracking tale of such an important phenomena, it seems timely to read as LSD research for psychotherapy is finally being done again in the UK.
The first half of the book on LSD pre-1967 was super interesting in chronicaling the drug's history and the different characters who came across it from the Swiss chemist's first trip on a bicycle ride, to Aldous Huxleys dying command, to the shadowy experiments of the CIA. Post 67 is a lot of history and info I already was aware of, well written but not too interesting to me. A great book for those interested in Psychedelics.
BoringI like that this book mostly stayed on a timeline though it bounced back and forth some. It has way too many people to follow and sometimes skips around. It annoyed me that there were several typos throughout. I just found this book a major chore. I forced myself to finish it and found myself skimming the last third of the book.
3.5
