https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44659.Pawn_of_Prophecy
At Gordon Ramsey's Pétrus restaurant (1 Kinnerton Street / Knightsbridge, London / SW1X 8EA...in case you're interested), I can get a "Roasted beef fillet with braised shin, baked celeriac and Barolo sauce" for the reasonable price of £65.00 pounds.I haven't tried that dish yet (I probably never will), but it sounds fabulous.
I would always remember that "Roasted beef fillet with braised shin, baked celeriac and Barolo sauce" fondly, but I'd go back to my Mom's dish before I ever made it to Pétrus again.I feel the same way about David Eddings Pawn of Prophecy.There's nothing fancy about Eddings' tale of Garion, Belgarath and Polgara.
Eddings has really created a beloved series of books that can be recommended to young and old alike.
I guess there was Ursula LeGuin and CS Lewis as well to fall back on, but Eddings really put together a compelling story with memorable dialogue that my wife and I frequently quote from.I think many of the reviews of the Belgariad are too harsh.
Sorry for the tirade, but I get bugged by reviewers who are so full of themselves that they can't admit a book is a good read because someone might think of them as juvenile or unsophisticated!
And it all started with this book.Later in life I returned to Pawn of Prophecy to revisit my old “friends.” Like many times when you visit your childhood haunts, I found that things had changed - specifically me.
The simple plot and world spanning journeys of Garion bedazzled me, making me want more and more, and in my obviously biased opinion, it is still a great book for the right person - maybe another 13-year-old boy trying to grow up.
For that reason - and all my personal memories of it - Pawn of Prophecy will always remain a 5 star book and one of my all-time favorite fantasy novels.
The first volume in the five book Belgariad series, which I'll happily admit to reading and then rereading throughout my mid-teens.
The scale and detail of Eddings' world is often staggering and the interplay between the characters a frequent delight.
Some elements will seem overly familiar to modern fantasy readers, from the prolonged info-dump in the prologue to the 'boy with a great destiny' central protagonist.
It should be remembered, however, that many of these elements became tropes because of Eddings' success.
Genre history lessons aside, this series remains a hugely engaging read and the first volume is no exception.
This is the perfect series of books for a young reader: clever enough to hold its own, exciting without being too graphic, and the youth don't notice just how bad the prose is.I mean, it's hilariously bad.
(For an effective drinking game, swig every time Eddings writes a Tom Swifty - ("I can't swallow this peach," Garion choked.) Or just sip; it happens on every page so you'll drink your share either way) On rereading, though, two things struck me other than the bad prose.
The second thing I noticed was that there was something else going on here; glimpses of a cosmology of wonder and fascination beyond the play of the story itself.
(view spoiler)[ Aunt Pol/ Polgara is Belgarth's daughter.
Belgarth is a 7000 year old sorcer...meaning Aunt Pol is probably a bit older than she looks also.
One of the other things that bugged me about this book is that while we get all kinds of portentous statements about Garion "Aunt Pol" who is raising him seems not to grasp [even though you'd think she'd be old enough to] that over protection may not be the way to go when a boy is the "expected one".
(hide spoiler)]I read one other David Eddings book some years ago and I've largely forgotten it.
The prologue with Eddings' world creation myth had me really hopeful, but then this one got mired in the typical bratty-kid-is-the-key-to-everything-and-doesn't-know-it epic fantasy genre cliche.
I really don't need to read another of those ever.I'd heard good things about The Belgariad series and maybe I got my hopes up too high, because I could not believe that this was the book people were raving about.
It seems like this adventure was just going to be about nothing but journeying, a goddamn never ending journey...a road trip to frickin' nowhere!But then finally things got interesting towards the very end and saved Pawn a star on the rating.
Çılgın Tanrılar Dünyasına Hoş GeldinizDavid Eddings'in isimlerini santraç hamlelerinden ilham aldığı ve epik- fantastik edebiyat öğeleriyle birleştirdiği Belgariad Serisinin ilk kitabı Kehanetin Oyuncağı.
Bunun yanında Eddings için şunu belirtmeliyim ki kesinlike bir Tolkien taklitçisi değil.
(Belgarath/Gandalf) Eddings seriyi tarihsel olguların üstüne oturtup daha çok harita üstünden bir FRP etkisi meydana getirirken, Tolkien sadece bir orta dünya yaratmayıp ve aynı zamanda ırklara özgü dil yaratıyorKarakterlere gelince, açıkcası her karakteri kendi içinde çok sevdim .
Bunun yanında diğer yan ana karakterler, Pol Teyze, Bay Kurt, İpek ve Barak hikayeye dahil olması ve önsözde yer alan tarihsel gelişimi tekrardan farklı açılardan sunmaları da keyifli.Sonuç.İlk olarak, çabucak okunan bir kitap.
I read The Belgariad series when I was in high school and recently revisited it to see if they were as good as I had thought when I was a mere lass.
The plot includes all the key plot points for a hugely satisfying fantasy story -- no spoilers but there is an epic fight between good and evil, battling prophecies for both, a young good-hearted boy who discovers in time his true destiny, a band of heroes on a quest to seek a powerful talisman, and adventures galore with monsters, gods, fierce warriors, great battles, and magic.
This is the beginning of a fun, 5 book series.
There is another 5 book series, the Mallorean, that comes after plus several additional books, "Polgara", 'Belgarath' & the 'Mrin Codex'.
Unless this world totally captivates you, reading the 3 additional books is kind of a waste.
My wife & I originally started reading this series just after the second book came out.
We the proceeded to read one book a year - FOREVER!
Two of my kids have read them at least once each, as well.It's a sword & sorcery world with a nifty take on it.
Imagine my surprise when I start reading and keep waiting for the story's plot to begin, and it begins to dawn on me that no such relief will be arriving.The problems I have with the Belgariad are simple: The 'story' is so cliche (An orphen boy who finds himself the subject of a prophecy to save the world, say it isn't so!), The characters are bland and the world seems impervious to logic.Garion, the protagonist of the story, grows up an orphaned child with only his annoyingly mysterious Aunt Pol to take care of him.
THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SOME THINGS YOU MAY CONSIDER AS SPOILERS, though, I think they are just nuances because I'm not telling huge chunks of the story.I like this book because I like Harry Potter, and they are very similar, but I’ll get to that later.This is the first book in a series of five called The Belgariad, which chronicles the quest of a boy who learns he is a sorcerer.
I feel secure in saying that I would like this book and perhaps this series had I never read Harry Potter; however, I am a huge HP fan and there is such a great number of parallels between “Pawn of Prophecy” and HP:1)	Garion, the boy who finds out he is a sorcerer, lives with his aunt.
Pawn of Prophecy and the remaining four books that make up The Belgariad series are for me pure comfort reading, something that always manages to put a smile on my face and entertains me throughout.Like many others I cut my fantasy teeth on David Eddings' Belgariad and Mallorean series, once in my early teens and then again in my early twenties.
And it was during last week and in between books that I heard the siren song of Eddings once more and knew that I had to heed the call.I have read other readers reviews on Goodreads that label this series as being simple, too formulaic, Eddings was secretly a xenophobe and that in comparison to other much well read fantasy series just childish in comparison.
She finished it!What a fun ride - but gorrammit did Eddings HAVE to end it THAT WAY?
And now, in order to get more answers and closure, I gotta find book 2!Slightly Updated Bullet Review (More Coffee, Less Snoozes):I had a LOT of fun reading this.
As he journeys, he meets new peoples (Barak and Silk), learns new skills (basically sign language) and starts to learn the truth about himself and those he thought he knew best.I'm not going to bother writing a proper review because I was too damn slow to read this book, and it's not fair.
I enjoyed the Belgariad books when I read them in high school, but looking at them now, there's a lot I can pick apart that I wouldn't have as a younger reader. And there was never a time, even as a younger reader, when I didn't want the character of Ce'Nedra to die a horrible death (edited to add: which is NOT a spoiler...before chewing me out in the comments, please read a bit more carefully. Wanting a character to be killed off is not the same as revealing whether they actually do die)
This is the book and series that essentially sparked my interest in the fantasy genre.
Now as they are slowly (and I emphasize the word slowly) being released in electronic format, I have begun to start reading them again on my Kindle.
But what it is is an entertaining quest fantasy filled with characters who you feel you know personally by the time you finish the book.
We hear the term comfort-read thrown around quite often, and The Belgariad is that to me in spades.
But do expect a really fun and exciting fantasy with characters who you connect with and who jump off the page.
Eddings pens tales of Gods meddling in mortal lives and how the gods themselves are pawns in the greater scheme of the universe.I found the book a light read but substantial enough, probably because I cut my teeth in fantasy with Tolkien and Robert Jordan’s Wheel of Time.
This first book is something a young adult can enjoy and Eddings will only improve in the next books, growing along with his targeted audience and with the stories turning darker as well.
David Eddings told a wonderful story of friendship, family and a quest to save the world.
He populates the story with wonderful characters that have made me laugh and cry and wish they were my friends and family.
Eddings can flesh out a character like many cannot.
The best part of the series is the characters.
His words creates a cozy comfortable world of the swords and wizards.
Many times I see authors try to force an exact, detailed picture of their world on the reader, and it ruins the story for me.
David Eddings never fell into that trap.
It parallels Torak’s theft of the Orb and it’s destruction of the left side of his body.Reputedly, Eddings was inspired to write fantasy when he saw a copy of LOTR on sale and learned that it was on its 78th printing—he went home and started to renovate a previously drawn doodle of a map into a fantasy tale that lasted a great many volumes!But there is also very much a Sword-in-the-Stone vibe about this book, as Garion, our farm boy main character, dangles along with Mr. Wolf and Aunt Pol. He has very little information about his parents, his background, or what will be required of him and they are in no hurry to enlighten him.
Since I am a fan of both Tolkien and White, I’m finding the tale enjoyable, even if the plot points are a bit obvious.
I realized I still hadn't reviewed this book since I rated it in 2008 (when I joined Goodreads) and read it some time before then.
The Belgariad is great starter-fantasy.
Is it fun and filled with great characters?
It's definitely great fun, but the characters are pretty much cardboard cutouts.
Always surly.
And people will always comment about how surly said character is.But I loved the adventures when I was just entering fantasy and I'll keep the stars and reserve a reallocation of star-age upon reread (whenever I have time for that).
This is my favorite fantasy series of all time. I have read the Belgariad so many times, the characters Eddings created in it feel like old friends. And reading it never gets old. To me, it is the pinnacle of contemporary epic fantasy. It is not only interesting characters and exciting adventure that made this so great, it was the believable interaction between the characters and the moments of humor sprinkled throughout the story.
A fantastic book I read when I was very young, but still enjoyable today. I think this an excellent first fantasy book for young readers, or readers new to the fantasy genre. The book's title is great too.
It's good, solid fantasy, but I would have loved some out of the box thinking, some new and crazy ideas, something not so normal, and a little bit predictable.
Yes, GRRM made me love gore, insect, Blood Wedding, treacherous crazy ladies and dragons.
It lacked some maturity and mystery I so love in fantasy series.
Even if Garion is a main character, he was either angry teenager or silent boy, watching everything, lurking...
I liked Aunt Pol. She was like Marry Poppins of fantasy Medieval times.
It's like Hogwarts houses just with more people.
So, my search for great fantasy series continues.
This was meant to be nostalgic a trip down memory lane for me.At the time I read this some 40 years ago, I thought it was the ducks nuts of the fantasy genre.Reading it now, some 40 years later, I found myself wondering why I thought it was so great.The pace was, at best, meandering.
Long passages where next to nothing happened apart from descriptions of life in the kitchen with Aunt Pol. There were times when the forces of evil raised their ugly heads but they were few and far between.The world is in mortal peril.
So, Mr Wolf, Garion, Aunt Pol and an assortment of friends set of in search of the stone.
http://bookslifewine.com/r-pawn-of-pr...Pawn of Prophecy is the first of five books in The Belgariad series.
Pawn of Prophecy was published in 1982 – a time when fantasy had very few titles and readers were clamoring for this type of epic fantasy.I absolutely love this series.
I’ve read it too many times – the entire series is basically one book to me – and I like it too much.
Every time I read this (book and series) I feel like I’m visiting old friends.
The Belgariad is also something like a travelogue as well – the characters’ quest will eventually take them through most of the countries in Eddings’ world.Read More here: http://bookslifewine.com/r-pawn-of-pr...
4.0 stars. Good beginning to solid Epic Fantasy series. The Belgariad is standard reading for fantasy buffs and it is certainly well done and enjoyable. My favorite aspect of the book are some of the supporting cast (Silk being my favorite of the bunch).
This was my "gateway" fantasy series - it really formed my view of what a fantasy world and magic should be. Not a lot actually happens in this first book - events, characters, and the world are just being established. Thanks Belgariad, for introducing me to my favorite genre!
Re-read4.5 starsThe writing style is amazing, David Eddings is a master storyteller.
The boy is also upset because it seems his aunt isn't his aunt, and he has no-one he really belongs to.The reader, from the very start, will easily guess everything that is not obvious to Garion - who happens to be a pivotal point of a prophecy, and a descendant of the sorceror's sister.Although the story relies on Garion being incredibly slow on the uptake (in between constantly being in the right place at the right time), and the sorcerors being oddly careless about his safety, it would be an okay if not inspiring read if not for - unsurprisingly - its treatment of women."Women are almost always angry at us for one reason or another.
I also got exactly who Garion is from about page one, and even though the book does give reasons why he'd be in the dark (his Aunt raised him on an isolated farm and he was never taught to read) I felt impatient for him to catch up with me, the reader.
It's as if I sat down, read the first sentence, and when I looked up again much of the day was past and the book over.
I did like Polgara who for me was the standout character--all the more so for being a female character in the testosterone-laden high fantasy genre and not, unlike Garion, one of a type I feel I've read hundreds of times before.
