https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1237069.The_Women_at_the_Pump
"Time passes, then; everything passes; and many things even pass off well.
A candle burns steadily in a candlestick.
The door opens, the candle goes out.
Whose fault is it?
What fault?" (389)This was one of the last works by Hamsun that I hadn't yet read; I started it during a rather turbulent period, after having just started my PhD.
The fault was not so much with the book itself—although especially in the beginning it is slow-paced.
So I pulled myself together, made more time to read longer stretches of The Women at the Pump, and finished it.
This book does not even have a Wikipedia article written about it.
It's the first Hamsun I've read (shameful, I know, given the brazen touting of my Norwegian cultural/ancestral heritage), and I quite enjoyed it.
At times it was slow to get through, and sometimes I wondered where it was going or where the primary focus was, but then I realized, this is forerunner-to-post-modern stuff here, there doesn't have to be a main focus (and by and large, there wasn't, no matter what the paragraph on the back of the book says).
I can't even be sure I know what exactly "The Pump" in the title referred to, specifically.
Petra returns with the gold ring he had given her-they marry and have a child and he goes out daily to the sea to get a catch and sells it locally.
His mother lives with them and she learns why Petra had returned...Through the years he wonders how he has a child with blue eyes when he questions his wife...loved hearing of the steamship industry.I received this book from National Library Service for my BARD (Braille Audio Reading Device).
For me, Hamsun is a really consistent writer, having written one of my favourite books of all time ~ Mysteries and just being one of my favourite writer of all time.
The Women at the Pump has a number of different characters, each having their own thing going on and often the things are intertwined with the other character's going ons, it feels like a real rural village.
Often books that follow more than one character get annoying because there is quite often character story arcs that you don't care about or don't care much for and you just want to get back to the ones you do.
Not in The Women at the Pump.
Rather depressing. The main draw seems to be waiting to find out how the main character is lying to himself and others.
I read this author because my grandparents emmigrated from Lofoten. This title, chosen at random holds a wealth of surprises. Early readers mest have been scandalized, considering the publication date.Think Peyton Place, only well-written, with an insight into human nature.Not an easy or fast read, the story and characters are intertwined and have a remarkable depth.
I was hesitant to read it only because of its length-at 400 pages, it's twice as long as most of Hamsun's books.
As it turned out, I shouldn't have worried.
We simply observe the people of the town going about their lives.
The narrative voice is that of the town gossips-the women at the pump-and Hamsun pulls it off brilliantly.
Even moments of solitude sound like they are being told my an elderly busybody.
Sinclair Lewis write books like this one in order to convince readers that americans were dullards.
Hamsun's characters are limited people, often leading stunted lives.
Kierkegaard wrote about a similar topic in his novella "A Possibility" in which a man is possessed by the science of physiognomy, in this case due to the fact that the only time he ever had sex was when his friends got him drunk years ago and took him to a brothel and that he, possibly, could have a child out of that occurrence.
This is widely considered to be based in fact and might sadly have been the only time Kierkegaard did have sex and which was directly responsible to his fear of physical erotic contact.
Poor Regine:(
Сложно понять, что за текст может скрываться под таким названием. Женщины у колодца - образ провинциального городка, полного скрытой враждебности, противостояния, хвастовства, конкуренции, сплетен, слухов и тайны коричневых глаз детей у голубоглазых родителей. Но роман - не мрачная картина кишащего змеями болота, скорее это рассказ о человеке несовершенном, как незаконченный портрет художника. Можно быть вором и беззаветно любить детей, можно выйти замуж за калеку и быть распутницей, можно лечить людей из-за денег или из сострадания, любить жизнь и быть занудой. Смешение этих ингредиентов в результате превращает роман в жизнеутверждающий коктейль, который так кстати в тоскливом ноябре.
It takes patience to enjoy Knut Hamsun and The Women at the Pump is no exception. In many respects it explores the same themes as Growth of the Soil, just on a larger scale. Centered on a small, sea-side town where there are few secrets and rumors abound, it is neither glitzy nor as beautiful as the work that won Hamsun his Nobel Prize. However, for its wisdom, its subtlety, and its charm make it worth every ounce of patience it requires.
This is not Hamsun's greatest--nor, I think did he intend it to be. However, it may be his funniest Humor underscores the narrative in many of his books, but it takes it over here. Rather than a visit to a natural marvel (Growth of the Earth), or a gaze into the abyss (Victoria), I believe Hamsun intended us here to enjoy a picnic in a rual park on a splendid spring day.
I was looking for Hunger which has been on my 'to read' shelf for a very long time. my library says it has Hunger but all I found by Hamsun was this one. fair enough. The Women by the Pump is the Hamsun I will read.
eh. I would call this book a let down, if it ever had a high point. I bought the book b/c I thought this won the Nobel Prize, but it was another of his books, not this one. I wouldn't recommend it.
slow
As I noted at the time, this book is about "the changing fortunes of the residents of a small coastal towns (events which are gossiped about by the women drawing water at the pump."
OMG...what was that all about?
