https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260791.The_Pursuit_of_Holiness
"The pursuit of holiness is a joint venture between God and the Christian. No one can attain any degree of holiness without God working in his life, but just as surely no one will attain it without effort on his own part." I love Jerry Bridges books. They are simple, down to earth and practical, yet they also convict and challenge. A book like this is the solid alternative to books like Desiring God by John Piper. Instead of focusing on how to manipulate our affections to feel certain things ab
Let's focus on the Bible and pursue holiness.Bridges makes it clear that only Christians have the capacity to even pursue holiness through the work of the Holy Spirit.
The point is that we should be pursuing it, it is not something passive that the Holy Spirit does in our lives, but a result of our obedience to the will of God. He points out that too often:"We pray for victory when we know we should be acting in obedience.""It is time for us Christians to face up to our responsibility for holiness.
The author reminds us too that:"True salvation brings with it a desire to be made holy."I recommend any Jerry Bridges books for those who want to apply biblical principles.
He says that we need the Holy Spirit’s help and to walk in obedience to the word, both truths with which I agree, but he never really defines what relying on the Holy Spirit means beyond the conviction of the Spirit.
And while there is certainly a need to overcome our sinful appetites, there is no discussion about fixing our affections on God. There is no joy or power in the pursuit of holiness as Bridges frames it in this book.And perhaps this is the issue I had with this book.
And then there are all those well-meaning people ready to assure that struggling Christian that there is no need to be concerned because "Christ has already done everything." "Don't be trying; be trusting."And does anyone ever explain to him what some of those kind of statements are even supposed to mean in everyday life?
He says that we need the Holy Spirit’s help and to walk in obedience to the word...but he never really defines what relying on the Holy Spirit means beyond the conviction of the Spirit." This weakness is symptomatic of a larger weakness in most types of Evangelical theology, and as a Catholic I would say the gap ought to have been filled with teaching on the sacraments as a means of grace.
I have read this book before, but this time I was so slow going through it.
My stage of life is so different and I find it hard to read 'theologically deep' books with the little ones running around and feeling exhausted at the end of the day.
I could only seem to read it when I was at a coffee shop away and I could actually think through what I was reading.
This is the type of book I could probably read a hundred times and continue to get something from.
Jerry Bridges is an inspiration and a real-life hero who I have actually met.
At the same time, it was one of the most helpful to me, as it elucidated why so many people are obsessed with sin and the purging of sin: It helps certainty of salvation (more on this later).Bridges states, "Faith must always be based in fact." I'm not sure where he gets this idea, as it's not biblical or humanly defined.
Just because the facts disappear does not mean God or our faith have to disappear.Reason must contain and control desire.
Bridges states partway through his book, "The only evidence of salvation we have is a holy life." Based on his definition of holy, this would mean sinless.
5 stars. This book really pushed me and forced me to evaluate my relationship with God. For that reason alone, this book is worth all the stars. Review to come.
I recently had the opportunity to review The Pursuit of Holiness by Dr. Jerry Bridges.
The book is definitely deserving of it's reputation as a "modern classic"!While his book Transforming Grace emphasized God's grace in our Christian walk, The Pursuit of Holiness emphasizes our personal responsibility.
When it comes to living a holy life, what is our responsibility, and for what do we rely on God?
While seeking to set forth clearly and accurately God's provision for our holiness, I have deliberately stressed our responsibility, feeling that this is an emphasis sorely needed among Christians today.
He writes in a way that's smooth and easy to read/understand.
I also really like how he can walk fine lines and deal with issues in sensitive, heartfelt ways.
He uses examples from his own life, which is something I LOOOVE in nonfiction books.
As far as theology goes, I'm pretty sure Jerry Bridge's is Reformed?
(DON'T QUOTE ME ON THAT THOUGH- also correct me if I'm wrong haha XD) So I'm not sure I would read all of his books, just because I think our theology is pretty different.
However, since Reformed theology wasn't a huge element in this, I barely noticed.
It's practical, it's convicting, it's uplifting, and it's something to read again and again.
I loved his point about it takes just as much faith to be obedient as it does to claim promises.
I've read several books by Jerry Bridges, and I've heard him speak in person (and sat at the same lunch table as him, just putting that out there) and it's because of him o switched to the ESV Bible translation (although I still love the 1984 NIV, why did they have to change it?!) so I'm sure my 5 star rating was inevitable.
This is one of the books that I read shortly after I got saved. I can't remember the details of what I read but I can tell that I liked the book very much. I remember one thing though: That holiness is not optional.I am looking forward to re-reading this book again. I will make detailed review when I do so.
Holiness is not a word most of us use in our everyday conversations and it does look a little like the author has been trying to be pun-ny in his title, hoping to tweak our collective conscience with a semi-reference to the American Declaration of Independence clause about ‘life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness’.
It reminded me of something I read in one of Skylar’s reviews about the major differences between American and Japanese parents; the former hope their children grow up to be happy and the latter want their children to grow up to be good.
It is also countercultural as it endorses a life of self-discipline, regular prayer, Scripture reading, meditation and adherence to all that God commands of us.
A good, solid book on holiness. It may have been slightly imbalanced. There was plenty of "...work out your own salvation with fear and trembling..." but maybe not enough of "...for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure" if that makes sense.
The book is a short, but very thorough, book that deals with the subject (obviously, given the title) of holiness.I decided to read the book after seeing a friend's review of it, and I must say that I was both surprised and convicted.
And that we don't work for the proper balance between leaning on God's Spirit for help, and doing our part to live holy lives before Him.Another area that really convicted me, and surprised me, is that so many Christians (including myself) are apt to have this ho-hum attitude about sin.
It is the perfect blend of biblical exposition and practical application, which treads the delicate balance between God's sovereignty and man's responsibility.Drawing on a metaphor from the world of farming (a tactic borrowed from Christ's earthly ministry), Bridges teaches that holiness is a joint venture  between God and the Christian.
In the same way, only God can produce sanctification in the life of a believer, but each Christian has a responsibility to work at his own holiness.
It forced me to focus inward on my own sinfulness as I realized that, for all my progress since I became a Christian, I still fail every day to live up to God's standard of holiness.
This has been a life-changing book for me, and one I will read again and again.Book Description:“Be holy, for I am holy,” commands God. But holiness is something that is often missed in the Christian’s daily life.
According to Navigator author Jerry Bridges, that’s because we’re not exactly sure what our part in holiness is.In The Pursuit of Holiness, he helps us see clearly just what we should rely on God to do—and what we should take responsibility for ourselves.
As you deepen your relationship with God, learn more about His character, and understand the Holy Spirit's role in holiness, your spiritual growth will mature.
Started going through this in discipleship in January of 2017, and finished in December of 2017! 12 amazing easy to chapters about walking in holiness. Jerry Bridges is a great author and always came back to Scripture to support all of his statements. This book covered all about walking in holiness, walking in the world, growing closer to God, how we are to become holy, and so much more. So thankful I was able to go through this book with Mrs. Clark and Penny! <3
I highly recommend this book. I have learned so much. It brought many things to my attention that I wasn't aware of and has me on the right track to the pursuit of holiness.
A fantastic book on Christian holiness.
Bridges book is quite the contrast to much current teaching on sanctification.
He is clear and plain and therefore he hits the target, unlike many today whose teaching is like a soft nerf bullet.
He does not qualify things to death constantly saying things like, "Well I don't mean that." He says simply we must be holy.
He does not talk about brokenness, weakness, defeat, etc.
He talks about disobedience.
The sappy sentimentality of evangelical Christianity is missing.
He talks about how we make excuses for our sins and give up too easily.
Jerry bridges writes a good one here. I enjoyed the pursuit of holiness. It reminded me of the mortification of sin by John Owen except this ones a little easier to read due to his more modern English writing style. Jerry bridges encourages Christians to pursue Godliness and holiness. He talks about habits and how to stop them or keep them if they are good ones. Writes about how Christians should act by giving us examples of how Christ acted. Good one recommend!
Good, quick read on how we really need to take seriously the pursuit of holiness. Is our goal to not sin much, or to not sin at all? I like how he gives examples of people who lived faithful lives and recommends studying them to continue to be encouraged to pursue a holy life. Nothing wowing, but a good, encouraging listen.
Bridges speaks of the synergism in practical Christian holiness. He writes of the command of holiness in regard to every area of our lives. The most practical book I’ve read in how we are to be conformed to the image of Christ.
A work written both from theology and the heart. It's in my top three favorite books. I definitely recommend every Believer read it for the exhortation and teaching and freedom that it reminds us that we have found in Christ.
highly recommend
If you're looking for a book to understand more about the Holy Spirit and its gracious work in a Christian's life, this book is for you. Helped me a lot.
Such a great book! Definitely one to read more than once as is jam-packed with key truths and wisdom for pursuing biblical holiness. Highly recommend! 👌
Excellent and thoroughly supported by heaps of Scripture. Slow is the way to go with this book."A book by Jerry Bridges"
In closing, however, Bridges says that the pursuit of holiness is the only real way to find peace and joy in this fallen world.I am an avid reader, but I must admit I find very few Christian books that I feel nourish me in my walk with Christ and I always find myself being drawn back to reading the Bible itself rather than other books about Christianity.
I personally feel an ongoing struggle in my life to live in a way that is holy and this book has helped me with that struggle.
Despite that exposure to him, and other Navigator authors, it has taken me until now to read even one of his books - considered by some to be classics regarding the life of a believer in God. In this book, first written and published in the late 1970's, Bridges tackles the mystery of living a holy life.
A mix of some new thoughts and then the same things about holiness and the Christian life I have been hearing for years.
One of the major obstacles, perhaps the only obstacle, to living a holy life is that of sinful choices and behavior.
But the truths discussed in the book are deep, and reading a single chapter with some time set aside for meditation may be a better use of this book.I took notes throughout the book this time as there are many memorable quotes worth savoring.
Near the last page of the book we find this gem: "...the joy of a holy walk is infinitely more satisfying than the fleeting pleasures of sin." (p.156)My only quibble with the book is a matter of emphasis and omission.
It is through a stronger (or better) desire that sinful desires are resisted.
It contains much of the same material as the book I just read by Ed Welch, but in a clearer format.One viewpoint that Bridges maintains that I thought was interesting is about victory over sin:"If holiness then, is so basic to the Christian life, why do we not experience it more in daily living?
Until we face this attitude and deal with it, we will not consistently walk in holiness."and later in the book:"Another cause of joy is knowing that I am obeying God - that I am no longer resisting Him in some particular area of my life.
