https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104217.The_House_Next_Door
”If we find that all our efforts have failed and someone buys the house, we shall set fire to it and burn it down. We will do this at night, before it is occupied. In another time they would have plowed the charred ground and sowed it with salt.If it should come to that, I do not think we will be punished.I do not think we will be alive long enough.” Colquitt and Walter Kennedy live in an upscale neighborhood among people of similar socioeconomic status. They are all friends who barbeque, have d
”If we find that all our efforts have failed and someone buys the house, we shall set fire to it and burn it down.
Colquitt and Walter Kennedy live in an upscale neighborhood among people of similar socioeconomic status.
An architect would need imagination to design a house to set on it properly and not be considered an eyesore.
He is young, ambitious, and determined to build a beautiful house that will be a monument to his genius.
The house that emerges, as if it just pushed its way up through the crust of the Earth from the fiery depths of hell, is gorgeous.
It is more than just a house.
She and her husband Walter live next door to a beautiful wooded lot with a creek and their life is nearly perfect.
I'm going to put a spoiler tag here, even though this is just an observation of mine, because it's something you should discover on your own.
(view spoiler)[At the heart of it, this is a haunted house book.
However, not one supernatural thing occurred in this book, depending on how the reader views it.
It caused Colquitt and Walter to believe otherwise as well.
And then going wrong again.Do you dare enter The House Next Door?
After rewatching Lifetime's film version of Anne Rivers Siddons'  The House Next Door , I decided to reread this horror classic.
Over the course of the story,  three couples move into the "house next door," only to each meet with horrific ends.
Or have Colquitt and Walter simply lost their minds?
Truly  The House Next Door  is a remarkable book, its  sole flaw lies in its timing.
There are many books written centuries ago that have transcended time.
The House Next Door  simply isn't one of them.
Summary : if you keep your 1970s lens in place,  The House Next Door  is definitely worth a read.
Narrated by a woman with the improbable name of Colquitt (forgive me if this actually IS a popular name Down South; I'm clearly an ignorant Westerner/Yankee, yo), this is a haunted house story that I'd heard was fantastic from several sources, including  Stephen King—not in his usual, I'll-blurb-anything fashion, but in long passages of "Danse Macabre," (the title of which GoodReads seems determined to not let me type—WTF?) his book about the horror genre, which I really enjoyed.
But then the house's next act of evil is...making Pie's husband Buddy and another character gay.
YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!!Trin's review was right on.
I, too, picked up this book after reading Stephen King's rave review in Danse Macabre.
And while I loved the beginning (Pie's miscarriage was truly horrific), my admiration turned to disbelief as the house made everybody in town stray from their spouses and have sex with somebody else.
I think I would have enjoyed this book more had I liked any of the characters.
(When the protagonist's two cats made their way into the story, I knew they were toast.)/By the way, what are the odds that Ted Haggerty and Larry Craig stayed in this house?
But if it doesn't like making people feel bad, why do it?Anne Rivers Siddons' The House Next Door solves this problem quite neatly.
And that's on a quiet day.So how the heck does this monster mansion keep attracting new families to mess with?I reread Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House while I was reading The House Next Door.
I first read The House Next Door when I was a teenager, and it scared the living bleep out of me.
The two books share quite a bit of ambiguity, in that we're never truly sure if there is something going on, or if it's all just in their heads, but I felt like this story just worked a bit better for me.
We have a description of the house as being modern and beautiful, two stories at least, with a basement, a wall of windows in the back...
I know that a lot of this feeling is due to the story being related by Colquitt Kennedy.
I did enjoy this book quite a lot though, and I think it's one that I'll read again at some point.
This is a great period horror piece basically set in a well-to-do Atlanta neighborhood. Siddons does a masterful job juxtaposing the horror with the affluence of the characters experiencing the traumatic events. This novel seems as much a character study to me as it does a haunted house tale. But it's BOTH, and Siddon's pulls it off in marvelous fashion. What a fine, unique book!
When compiling a list of vintage horror books to read and review this month, my first and best source was Stephen King’s Danse Macabre.
In Danse King spends three or four pages dissecting this — Anne Siddons’s 1978 release, The House Next Door, one of the smartest and most atmospheric haunted house tales I’ve read yet.
This is one of the finest haunted house stories I’ve had the pleasure of reading.
While not as explosive as The Shining or as iconic as The Haunting of Hill House, this very much deserves to get a look from horror fans.
This book was great. I loved the setting, loved the writing, loved the plot. This was the first Anne Rivers Siddons book that I've read, but it will not be the last. She has a way with words that made this book something special. I believe this is her only book that has a supernatural element, which is unfortunate, as she did such a great job with it, but regardless, I'm excited to read more from her.
As time goes on there is evidence that more than just a few bad vibes are coming off the new neighbor's house.
The New/Old South is still the backdrop for the novel, but we're talking much weirder stuff than a clash of mores here.This book is about several things, first the pain suffered by the wealthy is just as profound as that suffered by everyone else.
Two, the randomness of bad things happening to good people is something that cannot be avoided, the Kennedys never deserve their doom.
Colquitt & Walter Kennedy are a comfortable couple living out their dreams in an affluent suburb and then the lot next to them is sold .
It has some very sinister undertones and I'm looking forward to discovering what happens next.Later: This was a great book.
It's a story about a group of upper class people who have lived charmed lives until construction begins in a previously unbuildable empty lot in their development.
From the beginning ominous events occur and as time goes by the incidents become much more appalling and life changing for the residents nearby.
Very good psychological horror novel. It starts out so bland, you wonder if it's going to be scary at all. But slowly the tension builds. At the half-way point I was so creeped out by it, I couldn't read it at night. A house emanating evil, causing worse and worse tragedy to each new family that lives in it. I also liked the book because it doesn't blatantly show there is a supernatural connection, leaving you to decide for yourself. Subtle, well-written and worth reading.
As time goes by, it seems as though the house preys on its inhabitants’ weaknesses, slowly destroying the goodness in them and ultimately driving them to disgrace, madness and even death.I’ve wanted to read this book for a long time - ever since, in fact, I read Stephen King’s analysis of it in “Danse Macabre” - and although it took me a long time to get hold of a copy (I finally found mine, the 1982 Ballantine edition from Canada, in a charity shop), it’s definitely been worth the wait.
I don’t think there was a point where I didn’t like it, but the narrator, Colquitt, and even some of the neighbors got on my nerves plenty of times.
I don’t care if the island the beach cottage is on is a bit “run down” per Colquitt’s standards.
Anyway, because the story is narrated through Colquitt’s perspective I skimmed some of her more “introspective” parts.
I just didn’t give a shit what feelings or inklings Colquitt was receiving or how she and Walter had to make love in order for her “to feel herself” again.
"Do they know about the house?" everyone whispers as new neighbors move in, but none of them tell the doomed new inhabitants.Set in a neighborhood of relatively well-off people in the South, Siddons establishes our narrator as the kind of person who tells us that she is not quite as wealthy as her neighbors but that she fits in to the social mix quite well.
Terrible things happen to people and it's the kind of horror novel that disturbs more than it scares.
It's maybe the best ending/final act of a horror novel I've ever read.
This is the first Anne Rivers Siddons novel I've read, and the only one that she wrote in this genre (being a haunting suspense story).It was not known to me at the time, but Stephen King had mentioned this book as one of the best haunted house stories of the 20th century.Upon finishing it, I was set on giving this book 4 stars.
It's been a few days since I've been able to write up a review, and having given the story time to sit in my head for a while, I think it's worthy of 5.
What a satisfactory, creepy read. Totally crawled under my skin and I could see and believe every word.
Spooky without being gross. Interesting book from an author that I've always loved.
And with THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR, the King of horror did not lead me astray.The house is evil.
The interesting part is that this house isn't the spooky, decrepit, 100 year old haunted mansion that you are picturing.
Bad things seem to just happen there, and they keep getting worse.What I really loved about this book was that is isn't really about the house.
It is about the private life you share with the supposedly inanimate structure of doors and walls you call home, and what happens when that privacy gets turned inside out and becomes public knowledge.
Is the house evil?
This is a completely different "haunted house" story than I have ever read before.
But it all piles on, one thing after another....until you can no longer deny it.
And the ending completely blew me away!
Just in the lives the main characters live, you are completely emmersed in the 70's.
Is this a bad thing?
They are upper-class, elitists, who belong to the club and know all the best people.
So, maybe this is just me and the fact that I wouldn't socialize with these people.
I'm definitely not in that class of people, that's for sure.
But storywise, I was pleasants surprised......and completely blindsided.
Written in 1978, there is a nice period vibe in this oddly pleasant horror story.
Colquitt and Walter, who are constantly referred to as "middle-aged" although only being in their thirties (which may be correct but makes me feel so old) have a delightful house in a wealthy suburb.
They're perfectly nice people (a little smug maybe but who wouldn't be in that blissful community).
I was actually sad to see it all go to hell as the house of evil is built next to theirs.
I've no idea what this was - Southern chick-lit horror?
I was gripped - in the fiendish hands of an unholy obsession to find out just what was going to happen to these mid 70s upper middle class people and the House of Doom.
It will reach out and get you, particularly when it's been created by the fevered brain of a young architect who isn't really from the upper middle class.
And unwittingly evil!
So he made an evil modern house!
Which then proceeded to eat people by inciting unnatural lusts, like even homosexual ones!
And nothing fucks up your basic country club party like homosexual lust, let me tell you.
Evil!
Evil!
After 100 pages, I have no choice but to abandon. No sense of place, mood, the characters (by the author) are basically labelled as boring, 'normal' people in the beginning, and she seems to try to keep them this way. To the character's credit, barely anything happens in the first 100 pages, and finally there is a minor shock at the end of the first section. The book was published in 1978, so standards may have been different. But for a horror book, if you can't create a strong sense of foreboding, or place, you're usually dead in the water.
This is a very well-written book from an author who has apparently only ventured into the horror genre this one time and produced a classic. This is essentially a haunted house book, but what is unique is that it is not the typical ancient haunted house. It's a newly built modern house that apparently has some kind of evil presence. The writing was great, the plot was creepy, and the atmosphere created by the author was masterful. My one complaint: It had a completely unnecessary two-page epilogue that just left me flat.
I really enjoyed this book! The fact that you could just never tell what form the "horror" would take on next was so unsettling! This is definitely one that I can see myself re-reading in the future. My only--minor--complaint was that I was tired of hearing Colquitt explaining how they were just average people, even though they clearly lived an above-average lifestyle. But the uncertainty these people faced day-to-day, not knowing what new disaster would unfold, made for a very strong, gripping storyline. I'll be looking up more books by this author. 4.5 stars, rounded up.
This was not an "in your face" typical horror book. There was no gore, no extreme levels of violence, just an all around level of uneasiness and dread each time someone moved into the house next door and you waited to see what would eventually happen to them. It reminded me more of the horror books of old and this sort of slow and imperceptible build up oftentimes makes for a more disturbing story.Recommended.
Darn good, edge of your seat type of haunted house story. Really spooky.
it's not like stephen king (who i'm sure must LOVE this book) where he grounds us in the suburbs but everything's already twisted and weird before the twisted and weird things start happening (probably because king's so naturally twisted and weird he's incapable of writing convincingly normal, boring people).
the overall effect is that the book feels totally real and therefore very fresh-- but at the same time, kind of boring sometimes, because these people and their lives and their thoughts are kind of boring.
good stuff.you wouldn't think some of the sick shit in this book would come from the same lady who wrote the rest of it.
Later, this same neighbor jokes to Colquitt (ugh, that name..), after the second couple that lives there suffers a major setback, that perhaps there is an American Indian burial ground on the land and that maybe "the natives are restless".
Now at this point I don't know if there is an Indian burial ground there, but I do know that a dead baby is under a load of sand in the basement!
As you get further into the book, this lack of being inside the house makes one feel that the narrator is overreacting to the events taking place inside it.
