https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250693.How_to_Cook_a_Wolf
It is primitive, and it is a good thing to know if fuel is a problem for you....in a souffle, add one cup of puffed cereal to the three separated eggs, and you will have food for four people.Someone named le Vicomte de Mauduit informs that "meat puddings should be served between the months of September and April; during the months without an "R" in them meat pies should replace them."Some tips have the whiff of wartime menace:The best way to have fish for supper, in most places, will be to go out along the river or in your dinghy at the tide's change, if you can get past sentries and avoid the mines, and catch some mudcats or a few bass on your own hook.Some are positively Dickensian.
Good stuff.The book was originally written as a practical how-to for people who had to cook during the shortages and food-rationing of World War II.
It also covers less common topics like how to stay alive and relatively healthy when money and good food are extremely limited, how to feed your pets most economically, to how to prepare REALLY extravagent meals when food isn't so hard to come by.I like to read cookbooks, but I think this book would also be good for people who aren't that interested in food.

Fisher's book is full of tips and tricks for saving money by budgeting, having a simple grocery list, and cooking in quantities that conserve on heat expenses, as well.
I knew nothing of salt, or sugar, or the desires of foods as their being cooked.Fisher presents such logic in this book (even in her asides and revisions).
As a young cook, writer, and budgeter, I was surprised how drawn into this book I was - both for the recipes and my need to re-learn cooking.
Our food produced habits of quick disposal, easy come and easy go with money and meals.
But if you have a plethora at hand in times of abundance, then the has her advice for that too.I've always liked her cookery books for the exploration of food as an art, touching on the mixing of flavors, the importance and addition of colors, and textures to a meal.
I cook like that- knowing my flavors and tastes- the aromas and how they blend....that is such a part of the meal.Some of the recipes are dated, and not to our style of eating today, but still interesting to read.
Several times throughout the book I'd lose myself inside a single sentence of her prose.
"One way to horrify at least eight out of ten Anglo-Saxons is to suggest their eating anything but the actual red fibrous meat of a beast." So much of this book is still relevant today, and could teach many of us the practice of true economy.
As a desserts writer I'm re-reading the chapter on sweets - "How to Comfort Sorrow" - and baking my way through the recipes (the chapter is quite thin, so it's not a grand undertaking).
Dessert was less often enjoyed then because of the expense, but Fisher recognized its value - a comfort in trying times.
It doesn't hurt that she writes almost exclusively about food, one of my -- and anyone else who has the faintest conception of true human dignity and joy -- favorite subjects.Nor does it hurt that she used the term "rich-bitches" perfectly in print in 1963 to describe the menacing and mundane upperclass: "One of the saving graces of the less-monied people of the world has always been, theoretically, that they were forced to eat more unadulterated, less dishonest food than the rich-bitches."Her advice on eggs and calf heads is unmatched.
Her advice on vegetable loves and how to lure the wolf are beyond that -- untouched by all others.
Not exactly a cookbook, but a book about cooking and eating, and the philosophy thereof. MFK Fisher is some one I would have dearly loved to know.
You can still find little fresh vegetables, and still know how to cook them until they are not quite done, and chill them, and eat them in a bowl."After reading that half paragraph early in the book, I fell in love with M.F.K. Fisher.
Ever wanted to know how to cook an entire sheep's head?
Throwing out the juice from canned vegetables?
This probably wasn't the best M.F.K. Fisher book to read having never read her before, so I don't know if I should recommend it or not.
MFK Fisher's book seems uncannily appropriate to my days of unemployed living in America.
She was writing about the scarcity of war-time America, but we've become so accustomed to our country's overextended reach into military engagements abroad that war is not what comes to mind first as the cause for the wolf's snuffing at the door.
We've been encouraged to go about as normal and maintain our spending habits, as though, if we ignore the wolf, he'll stop his huffing through the keyhole.Fisher's book is full of humor and thoughtfulness and some great common sense that we could all adopt in our kitchen.
Fisher is a delightful prose stylist, and her advice for surviving in the midst of a wartime crunch on supplies resonates in a contemporary ecologically-minded, waste-averse context.
Plus, the recipes are a blast, and she's very witty.
I love her bracketed asides, commenting in the 1950s on the original text of the 1942 edition.
Fisher is not just telling readers how to skimp and save--also how to mix cocktails, fantasize about luxurious cooking no longer within their means, and to feed pets cheaply but healthily during wartime.
The epigraphs Fisher chooses for each chapter are also very charming.
"A biochemist once told me that every minute an egg is cooked makes it take three hours longer to digest. The thought of a stomach pumping and grinding and laboring for some nine hours over an average three-minute egg is a wearisome one, if true, and makes memories of picnics and their accompanying deviled eggs seem actively haunting."This book contains some dubious advice and sadly requisite 50's racism and internalized misogyny, but if you found the above passage amusing in any way, you'll have a grand ol' time reading it.
originally written to help folks stretch their money and choices for food/cooking during wwii, but updated in 1951 (korean and cold war, usa just cannot go on without wars right?) fisher is both smart and downtoearth in her funny stories and recipes keeping the wolf from the door. her short answer to the wolf is it better watch out or she'll cook it too.
looking for ingredients... any suggestions?
Practical advice on the art of eating whether you're facing the economy of war or not
This edition incorporates the author's later notes and additions in brackets, making for an awkward read.
2. I was reminded of my grandmother, a woman who lived through The Depression and the sacrifices of the world wars which Fisher cites.
Fisher shares hints, tips, and recipes for the times when the wolf is breathing down your neck and as well as when he is nowhere in sight.The book is dated, so I don't imagine many modern cooks turning down the corners to save one of the recipes.
Still, Fisher offers a glimpse into life between the great wars and, in the bracketed sections, after.
If Katherine Hepburn's character were to dictate a war-time cookbook it would be How to Cook a Wolf.
I enjoyed the observations on cooking, and the recipes from another time (though "Aunt Gwen's Cold Shape" sounds quite unappetizing) but most of all I LOVED this book for the author's wit.
Another favorite, perhaps just because she uses the word disagreeable and can't you just hear it in Hepburn's clipped accent: "It is all a question of weeding out what you yourself like best to do, so that you can live most agreeably in a world full of an increasing number of disagreeable surprises." Get the revised edition, as Fisher's added "what was I thinking" parentheticals are worth their weight in gold.I'll leave you with my two favorite descriptions - she describes Camembert as "an unnecessary peptic goad, but a very nice one now and then" ...

Excellent book. Originally written during the second world war, it is on the surface a book explaining how to cook and live well in the midst of rationing and scarcity. In reality, this book explains how to love food and love life, in good or bad times. Fisher's voice is excellent and enjoyable. In particular, this edition was reedited by her and she has included later commentary on her own writing. Many of this added pieces are excellent and very funny. This is a great book from a fantastic essayist.
I'm going to have to buy a copy of this book.
I took it out from the library and didn't have it nearly long enough.
It's best enjoyed in small snippets, or the amount of information flying at you can get to be overwhelming.
M.F.K. Fisher is so full of great tidbits and recipes that I know I'll need to refer to her later down the road, and her insistence that cooks be aware of things like the amount of energy they're using in cooking and how they re-utilize even the meanest of leftovers is still timely.
Now, I just need my own copy for reference!
Not as fabulous as I'd hoped, but still, I'm glad to have it on my shelves. Many of Fisher's ideas and recipes will hang with me. We're loving baked apples and at last I can make a decent fried egg. Thinking we'll try "Eggs in Hell" for breakfast. The edition I read included comments in brackets that Fisher included many years after the original writing. Those really added something. Maybe that's what left me a bit disappointed - that there weren't more of Fisher's ideas and writing and less of her recipes.
What a funny little book you are! Fisher wasn't satisfied with the original text, and in the 1954 edition she includes all kinds of bracketed commentary, which make for an unusually aware reading experience. Nonetheless, it includes many a tasty recipe and abundant simple, economical advice. Some of it seems dated, others not. It's always good to have additional weapons to fend off the wolf.
My, but the methods of dealing with wartime rationing are many and various. Creative. Alarming. Fisher's style is lively, and her focus on how preparation of food is for the good of both body and soul strikes me as wise and timely.
This little gem is not for every reader. I enjoyed her passionate opinions on food and how it is an important part of living life to the fullest. The recipes from the 1940's will probably not make it onto my table however! the full review is on my blog at booklook-springville.blogspot.com
I wish I'd had this during the post-college/post-divorce ramen-eating lean years. Give it to anyone moving out on their own; it's as much psychological "being broke sucks, here's how to survive with a sense of humor" as it is recipes.
How to make a blackout fabulous with sherry and shrimp pate.
I'll write more later. I really loved this book, which is on one level a book about how to survive happily during wartime (it was written in 1942), but is also just a terrific piece of food writing.
4 stars worth of charm. This book is dated but full of important lessons on how to navigate the kitchen with economy. Basically, culinary life during wartime. The book was published in 1942 and covers how to keep the wolf (poverty/starvation/desolation) at bay by cooking and entertaining wisely. It’s witty, it’s charming and it’s direct. We don’t have the same concerns today regarding the heat of your oven or the availability of food; that makes this book such a great historical record of frugality. Food writing is so prolific now via blogs, but none of it captures this spirit.
This was a pleasure to read and is, at this point, also fascinating as a social history. It also resonated as a sort of timeless guide to life. Even though none of the recipes really appealed to me (or would generally, I think, to our contemporary palates), her writing is so interesting and deft, with such a delightfully dry sense of humor, that I still enjoyed it immensely.
This book has a lot of cooking advice I didn't need, but some that was still useful today. In an era when you tried to squeeze every meal you can out of the groceries, this book explored the practical and sensual side of making food during lean times. I loved her sense of adventure and clear joy about food.
