https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3357132-halfway-house
Mas o facto de a vítima ter uma vida dupla, completamente diferente, fez com que aguçasse a curiosidade na leitura deste livro.
Estes livros da nova coleção Vampiro fazem-me lembrar a juventude.
Hoje em dia poderia ter uma coleção bastante significativa, caso a minha mãe não os tivesse deitado fora.
Sim, a minha mãe, devoradora de livros também, achava que estava coleção devia ser lida e depois "desprezada" pelo que não sobrou quase nada destes livros que povoaram a minha juventude.
A vida dupla de Gimball vai ser o tema central da história, visto que nem uma nem a outra mulher sabiam da sua existência.
Halfway House is a very well written murder mystery from the 1930s.The story starts off as Ellery Queen met his high school old friend Bill after years of not seeing the latter.
Later, Bill and Ellery accidentally discovered Bill's brother in law being stabbed to death in a cabin next to an long-stretching highway.
Then to the shock of everyone, it is revealed the murdered victim had a double lives.Well......the story as a whole is entertaining, the murder mystery is very finely set up, the details are solidly written (especially the courtroom scene), the romance also adds to the entertainment value a lot.
Though I enjoy reading and rereading classic mysteries, I think this is my first Ellery Queen novel.
In reading about the books I found that the earlier and later ones are considered quite different in style, and most but not all of today's readers prefer the later books.
Ellery, who has a soft spot for the new widow, of course gets involved and investigates.I liked the dated feel of this book.
Part of the fun for me of reading older books is getting to indulge in something different than is being turned out today.
The first thing that struck me was the writing style.
The book is definitely written in a "guy who's seen it all" New York style, which is fun in small doses.
The book also gives an interesting look into Depression-era New York City, where the Park Avenue swells live in happy oblivion in their part of town and the proletariats (I did love the mention of the Rand School, a hotbed of socialism at the time) live grumpily in theirs.
But if you're looking for some good old-fashioned New York detecting, this book is an entertaining ride.
I love that the Ellery Queen books give you all the clues to the mystery. At one point in the book the authors stop and tell you that you have all the clues and you should try and solve the problem. I have been able to in a few books but mostly still can't figure out "whodunit".
Storia intricata, penso che al giorno d'oggi le deduzioni che hanno portato E. Queen sulla strada giusta per trovare la "misteriosa donna velata" forse non sarebbero così ovvie perché una è vero è poco probabile ma non impossibile e l'altra non è poi del tutto vera ma tutto sommato il racconto è ambientato negli anni '30 e quindi allora poteva essere assolutamente nella norma.
This is very good and my first Ellery Queen Mystery and I loved the way the killer's identity was held back till the very end. Looking forward to more!
Fris geschreven. Zelfs voor een boek uit 1935 springt het leesplezier er nog altijd af. Verbazingwekkend.Leuke plot, maar de ervaren lezer kan tussen de regels door soms wel raden wat er nog aan zit te komen.Tof tussendoortje
Excellently written and well translated, this novel feeds on an ingenious plot and very particular characters. Loved reading this second novel by Ellery Queen in this mystery collection.Maria Carmo,Lisbon 13 February 2017
This is my second Ellery Queen novel - the first being "Calamity Town", which i loved - and i must say it didn't disappoint.
Don't really know if it was because of these logic "exercises", but this time i found Ellery a bit colder, less passionate, but still ingenious in his insights.It is a solid book, it lives up to the standard, but if you're new to Ellery Queen, try "Calamity Town" first.
Usually considered the beginning of Queen's "second period" works, Halfway House is a satisfying mystery.
Ellery here becomes more than a mere thinking machine, and interacts more with the other characters.
There's still the Challenge to the Reader when all the clues have been presented, and I really thought I'd figured this one out...but NO!
I just put the wrong spin on a vital clue, so close but no cigar.
This really worked for me, because I was thinking TELL US WHO IT WAS!
The whole middle is taken up by the murder trial, unusual in a Queen mystery.
Cleverly crafted murder mystery first published in 1936 by Frederic Dannay and Manfred B, Lee, under the pen name Ellery Queen.
Queen, of course, is the detective solving the mystery of a body found in a house where it’s obvious no one lived.
Half way between NYC and Philadelphia Pennsylvania, the house was a place for the murder victim, who led a double life, to switch identities.I had an inkling of who the murderer was this time, but based only on one fact, and no clues.
These guys were good.Read this if: you love a classic murder mystery; or you want a small taste of NYC society in the 1930s.
I've been on a bit of a mystery kick and in particular going back to the older ones. This was my first Ellery Queen and now I'm sold. I'd seen the 1970s TV show of it and loved it, but this was the first of the original books I'd read. It took a bit to get going, but a good solid and fun mystery. A tad sexist but given the era not too surprising. But good enough that I'm sold and will be reading more of them.
This is another cracking mystery, existing (ahem) halfway between the more pretentious Queen style of the early “Nation Noun Mystery” books and the more humanistic mode of the post-Wrightsville books. There’s some interesting stuff about class here, and watching Queen build his profile of the killer is a joy. True, the killer’s identity will come as no surprise if you’re reading closely, but seeing it laid out so methodically more than redeems the somewhat obvious nature of the mystery.
I always enjoy reading an Ellery Queen Whodunit, they give me such a fun time in trying to guess who did it. Then with Ellery Queen, your bound to guess wrong as there is often a nice twist to the full story that has been told.
Mysteries are not my favorite genre. I've heard of Ellery Queen books but never read one so decided I'd give this one a try since it takes place in Trenton where I grew up. For the most part I was bored but continued reading just to find out who had done it!!
Good start to the Second Period novels.
I could not finish this book! Poorly written and very repetitive!
Fun read although bogs down in the middle--picks up speed toward the end. Gets rather maudlin silly at the end.
Enjoyed it... Learned a few things, for instance that the Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine is still being published.
read some time in 1990
