https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58085.The_Sight
This is integral to the bonding process that is the single most important aspect of the wolfpack.The author has non-family members in the same pack.
The author has an outsider as the Omega but he makes the mistake of having other members as outsiders and non family members.
The author also makes the mistake of the timing of the births, the non-cooperation of the pack, these things just cannot be if a pack is to survive.
When I read a book, even novels, I want the author to do his research.
This was a young-teenage favourite of mine, which I found comfort in returning to whenever the world got too much to handle.
I would begin and drop the book at random intervals: sometimes starting the book from the last place I left off, other times at the beginning, but more often from whatever chapter the book fell open at.I have no idea why exactly it brought me so much solace, as much of the events that occur are startlingly bleak.
I can only imagine that it brought me peace to channel my teenage angst into events so far displaced from reality.
If you start scanning the book, you get utterly confused.And everyone dies.
The more or less average fantasy "role-playing-plot" (those online forums which players write in words and 'roleplay' as their own fictional characters for a overall story)Basically, in one sentence, the Sight is described as:A family of wolves is torn apart where the main character must stop these evil wolves from enslaving everything, while one by one everyone dies.It's a pretty hard book to get into, and you absolutely have to read very carefully the book.
I hear people I have cried from reading this heartwrenching book.
The Sight seems to be right up my ally, ancient evil, families a'feudin, dark woods, winter and wolves.
Now I have said it before I will say it again "I LOVE wolves", but these wolves are the characters of the book it is their wolf pack that is a'feudin with another evil wolf pack.
Which seems to take away from the creditability of the book, non?But there were other things too, a lot of the facts about the wolves were not exactly um true, I love wolves and I am no expert, but David Attenborough has taught me a few things and this book was like opposite.
Beautiful jacket cover and a wonderful story. If you are patient enough, I think you will find this tale of myth and magic to be powerfully captivating. This novel might be looked upon as similar to a wolf version of Watership Down. I like the style and prose of David Clement-Davies, and enjoyed this book enough to order the sequel, Fell.
From its begining to amazing ending, David Clemet-Davies' 'The Sight' is definately one of the best books I've ever read.In its first chapter, Clement-Davies introduces us to the strange and dangerous world of ancient Transylvania through the eyes of a wolf.
Little does the pack know, but Huttser and Palla are about to become the parents of a she-wolf who is blessed with an ancient power called the Sight.
What was a race for one wolf pack to survive suddenly becomes a war between good and evil when the pack learns about a terrifying prophecy.According to an ancient legend that Morgra is bent on fufilling, this she-wolf, Larka, is the key to the enslavement of nature itself...if Larka chooses to join her aunt.
This has been on my currently-reading for too long without me picking it up or showing the slightest interest in getting back to it. I really enjoyed it the first time I read it but it's time for this copy to move along to a new home. Melodramatic and overly wordy. My brain wants me to keep FELL mainly bc of the glorious cover, but having not finished this I think I may pass that along as well. So sorry to Steph and Julie for keeping you guys waiting <3
(I mean, I'm assuming it was him, but I honestly can't remember if he survived the events of his book.)Spoilery notes about the ending:(view spoiler)[- I really like that last page and got feelsy about the final lines, and how it all circled back again and echoed theology some more.- I liked the environmental message while it was happening (an important thing for kid readers to hear about!), but...
It feels like the book is cleaved unevenly in two, so 2/3 of it is bad and the last 1/3 is enjoyable.In this first cleave, the dialogue is horrible, the narration describes too little and action is glazed over so quickly it left me wondering did something just happen?
In a single paragraph as many as three character’s points of view are given, and this flip-flopping changes the story’s focus so much that it’s hard to get a grip on what’s happening.But when I crossed into the last third of the book, much of the bad dialogue, polluting adverbs (he wrote suddenly), confusing POV flipping, and hazy descriptions disappeared and what followed was a surprisingly well-written ending.
Bad writing, fake wolf behavior, confusing, just to name a few problems.Let me get two things straight first, I LOVE wolves, and I LOVE fantasy.
The author did not do his research at all.The Confusing Parts:Throughout the book the wolves use words from their own language, such as Dragga and Drappa.
As for the actual writing, you might be able to see how bad it is from my examples.I don't think I made it far enough into the book to get a really good idea of the storyline, but I think it's mainly about this wolf that is hunting the pack.
The Sight is a very unique and original book, I'm sure there are no books like it.THE GOOD-The characters.
They all have their own personality, and the author makes sure to always follow the character's "rules".-The ending.
The ending just seemed to raw and true, as if it happened somewhere.
It was...amazing how detailed the rules and ways of the Sight were.THE BAD-Kipcha's death.
I mean, wouldn't you want to keep the pups alive, for Khaz?-Slavka.
I just...didn't like her character.
She was probably the only character that didn't seem true.-Wolfbane.
I mean, if he didn't die, wouldn't he remember his family?
There are definitely parallels drawn, too, between not only the wolf mythology of Tor and Fenris with their daughter Sita’s sacrifice for the wolves to Jesus in Christianity (right down to small details, such as “[Sita] said that they should send her their children, for she knew that children can really see the truth and she loved children above all things” – page 74), but this parallel is extended even further into the active characters of this story, namely, Larka.
Or even by taking on too much responsibility.” – page 245   (view spoiler)[“But here,” said Karma almost sadly, her growls reaching deeper and deeper, “Slavka will not let us talk of such things, or even tell our own stories.
He clearly kept hitting dead ends since he went and killed off all the decision making characters with their own idiocy to generate some drama!Also, lets not forget, this is a book about wild animals, yet somehow our heroes hide within earshot of wolves,  with noses and somehow go undetected every time?I think the final straw for me was when he used a cop-out 'technique' I find more infuriating than any other, which is when no proper explanation is given when a character asks "Why didn't you say something before?"A prime example of this is in Breaking Dawn when (view spoiler)[ Edward says that Jacob being a 'shape shifter', not a werewolf all along NEVER CAME UP!?!?!?
Man...what can I say about this book.
It's far too long, it reads as a rehash of Davies first book, Fire Bringer and the deaths are just awful.
This book filled me with hopelessness.
So much repetition in this book had my eyes glazing over more than once.
The story is interesting and well fleshed out.
Some parts of the book are beautiful and interesting.
I'm not rushing into the sequel of this book - Fell.
I need a couple of books in between to lift my spirits!
It is intricate in that the story's tales are woven throughout...the tales of superstition, myths, beliefs, truths, discovery, loss, love and sadness.
The first part was rough...it was a hard, dry, slow read.
I think it was because so many of the wolves generational stories of superstition, myths and beliefs were told.
These stories are very important to the larger story of The Sight but regardless, it was rough going.
I kept reading because it was important to EM and because she said that part 2 becomes far better and the reading goes quicker.
This book was interesting at first, but then it became severely depressing and more than a little confusing. I never even finished it but I deffinetly wouldn't recomend it!
One of those books that I started and just could not get past the first chapter for whatever reason.
It’s so many things in one - superstitions, anthropomorphic, animal instincts, human instincts, lore and tradition, evil and good, truth and lies, hope, family.
It was truly very interesting and it’s obviously a lot of research went into this book - from the wolves and their instincts and packs and actions to tying in Transylvanian history to the moral of this story.
I will say this is NOT where I saw the book going.
Not terrible, but not amazing either. I liked the author’s style of descriptive writing, but the heavy Christian-esque element to the storyline put me off at first. Larka’s vision, and ultimately the ending, definitely wasn’t something that I foresaw coming.
I love it, The story took me awhile to finishThe ending was sad and the story it self had a lot of twist.My character i love the most is fell.He's full with wonder and kinda matches me .
[...] dobbiamo stare attenti ai draghi che dimorano nelle nostre menti e che gettano false ombre sul mondo che ci circonda. Fidati della vita, [...], lascia che ti porti al sicuro. È sempre rischioso tentare di fare una recensione su un libro che ci sta a cuore, e questo romanzo di David Clement-Davies rientra nella categoria. Ho letto questo libro quando ero più giovane, e nonostante gran parte degli avvenimenti e della storia siano stati cancellati dalla mia (breve) memoria fino a questa rile

David Clement-Davies creates a unique culture and belief system for his characters by blending religious paradigms from various religions.
Although the plot is not necessarily as inventive as this environment he has created, it is a wonderful tale about fate & destiny, friendship, family, and growing into one's self against all odds.From the moment you meet the pack, the reader feels a unique bond to each wolf.
On the other hand, however, I can say it's certainly better than the alternative where author's try to avoid using the word "said" by using every and any other word to describe verbal communication.Overall, this book is an excellent coming of age story in a fantasy setting.
Every time he had one of the wolves 'soaked in sweat' I wanted to throw the book across the room!
I found myself focusing more on the way the book was written instead of what it was trying to say.
It makes me want to throw the book across the room!I wish there were more animal centric stories that didn't involve man.
Just cut him out all together, or give him a very minor part -That doesn't make the balance of the earth hang in his hands- I read books with animal characters to read about animals, not humans, not global warming, just animals.
Even though it follows wolves as the central characters, I felt a kinship and closeness with them that is sometimes is hard to find in books following humans.
At several points, I would force myself to read "just one more page." I found it interesting that the library shelves this book with adult sci-fi while it is actually geared toward the younger reader (12+).
At that age, I would have had a hard time not putting this book down.
I enjoy reads that make you think and engage the reader, but this book just made me feel bogged down.
I picked it up, knowing that that petite peice of literature would take me to a place of wonder...and so I flipped to the first page, and started to read.I truly believe "The Sight" to be one of the greates books I have ever read, possibly the best.
This book has opened my mind, and let me experience the world in a whole new view.
I have learned much about life from this book.
I have learned that love is the greatest of all virtues, and sometimes we must let go of things, to ensure the safety of the ones we hold dearest.
"The Sight" is truly a five star book!
This is my all time favourite book ever written, this and Watership Down.It has the most descriptive, beautiful writing ever mastered, I have never come across any other author that could write more skillfully than David Clement-Davies.
This is why he is my all time favourite author.
This is how all writers should write.Though a morbid story it feels satisfyingly finished at the end, because there is purpose and meaning in everything that happens in the book and the book would not feel so fulfilling if morbid things like that did not happen.
In a very long book that I could spend lots of time reading with pretty prose and also wolves.If we shoot forward to now, 23 year old me kind of hates this book.I mean, I don't really hate it.
We age and mature (and get really awesome, in my case), and the things we like sometimes change too.So, here's the deal.
This book is about wolves, but they talk to each other and have a religion and all sorts of other things.
Or give it to a middle schooler you know who likes wild animals.Incidentally, I actually think Fire Bringer is a more well written book than this one.
I understand that it was designed for younger readers, around the early teen areas, and I admit that is how old I was when I first read this book.
After reading this book a total of six times (I believe) the characters and adventure does not get old.
Despite age, The Sight will be enjoyed.For older readers, the wording will be incredibly easy to understand, but the depth of the characters and the excitement of the plot and adventures are ageless.I hope many find the time to pick this book up, because I do believe that it has affected my life, especially my younger teens.Enjoy and read happy, my friends.
The book Im reading is called The Sight By David Clement-Davis.The story is about the wolves in Romania named Huttser,Palla,Larka,Kar, and Fell.
The main characters are Larka,Kar and Fell.
The main event is the fight between the great pack and Morgra.
The sight is the main thing in this story.
The sight is a power that very few wolves know.
Say a wolf looks into the water and it has the sight.
The author did a great job writing this book.
The book was great the way he described everything was flawless.
i would rate this book a 5.
The Sight by David Clement is about a Transylvanian wolf clan faced with the conflict brought by Morgra who is another wolf that in order to have power over all wolves needs to fulfill an ancient legend.
Young Larka who is a white wolf pup born with the Sight, embarks with her brother Fell and the rest of her family on an twist and turn quest for power as well.
The wolves are often in a snow setting and this book revolves around ancient evil and mythology.This Book stretches out over 450 pages and I was kept interested the entire time.
I decided to read this book because I remembered reading Fire Bringer in about 7th or 8th grade and I really enjoyed the entire gist of the plot and the decent pacing of the novel.
I did not enjoy the characterization of the wolves themselves; each wolf seemed flat as characters.
The abundance of heavy handed religion and pseudo-spirituality really grated on my nerves as I read through the book as well.
Several parts of the wolf's culture seemed to have come directly from Christianity in completely unsubtle ways and the resolution of the plot really disappointed me.
