https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/349426.The_Memory_Book
I am giving this book a very high rating because I think I read it but I can't remember but I'm guessing that it was very, very good.
I do not remember where I put it but it is here somewhere.
I could not recall the name of the book but remembered the ISBN so it was easy to search on that.I do recall that my children and husband gave it to me for some special event (birthday, Christmas, Saturday, or something.) I also know that co-author Jerry Lucas was a very famous NBA player and he had an incredible memory.
This book will teach you how to memorize and retain just about anything quickly and easily.
The techniques take work to learn and practice, but once you have them down it is amazing the things you can do.
I used the methods in this book to memorize thousands of Chinese vocabulary words.
I have also begun using the numbers techniques, and can remember any number that I decide to memorize.
Right now I am working on the methods for retaining what I read.
But if you want to understand how to memorize deliberately and effectively, this book will show you how.
I can't remember what it's about.
They seem to remember your name, your face, and little details about your life and past conversations way more than the average person.
Five minutes later, I ask the same dumb question and my husband will look at me like, "What?" I recongize that in order to be a more meaningful person in this world, I've got to change that half-invested side of my attitude.
It is full of excellent exercises to strengthen your memory, to become one of those great people who make others feel so valued...all becuase of an acute awareness and a strong memory.I'm still in the middle of the book, but I am truly invested into trying everything so that I can improve.
Peg systemLink system tells you to link all the things you want to remember using a weird relation.
And this works!Example if you want to remember, mouse, aeroplane, chair.
Visualize a mouse flying over an aeroplane.
And a chair dropping out of aeroplane.
(You are being more mindful here, the author even sorts every word wrt the alphabets, results: more mindful and hence a better memory)Substitute system tells you to replace the words you don't know with a word sounding the same.
Works for foreign languages, new words and new names etc.Peg system is little complex that it matches all the ten numbers to ten different sounds.
The techniques they cover are the Link, Substitute Word, Major, and Peg systems, as well as some other useful applications like names/faces, playing cards, locations, etc.My main gripe with this book is that there's a breathtaking lack of information in it, and instead mostly focuses on several (i.e. 10+) ways to apply the same tools to different topics.
Although it looks like a novel, the book is more like a textbook in that to really get the most out of it, one has to do the suggested activities while reading the book.
The point of this book is, if not already evident, to help improve one's memory.I don't have much to say about this book.
From these two points, all the examples from the book can be drawn.Unfortunately, I couldn't bring myself to practice the techniques like a textbook.
I also found myself getting quite bored reading all the different examples.
This book is logical, honest, and practical. LogicalHarry Lorayne and Jerry Lucas explain why memory techniques work and how they simply build on the way our minds already work.Honest From the very beginning readers are told memory systems take work, but they are possible and within everyone's reach. Like all good things, it takes effort.Practical The memory systems described in this book can be applied to remembering to-do lists, dates, names, places, events, phone numbers, etc. Who wouldn't like to remember those things better?
كتاب مررررة حبيته ..من فضل الكتب اللي قرأتها في هالمجال ..يساعد فعلاً في التخلص من مشاكل النسيان وتقوية الذاكرة ، يعلمك ايش اساباب النسيان وكيف تزيد تركيزك في هالناحية ..فادني كثير في حفظ التواريخ والأرقام ..أنصح بقراءة هالكتاب ..
A great read. Some very helpful suggestions as to how to memorize various things. As with anything we doi the more effort you put into it the more successful you will be.Recommended
It worked!)Thank you, Mr. Young, you have a nice day.You know I didn't have the heart to tell him I got 100% on all my final exams.It was embarrassing when the other students asked me how I thought I did on a test we had all taken.
I just got finished studying the same Greek book for five minutes and I know for sure I will get a hundred on the test.
Remember the first law of real magic: People would rather believe a lie told to them a thousand times than the truth told to them once!
This is not to impress people that you remembered their license plate.
With that, the license plate letters don't even need to be remembered.
E.g., for 6-10, I see my running shoe with a cow, suspended inside it by ropes of ivy, with bees around its right back hoof, which has some abnormal toes jutting out at weird angles from it.
(96-100)-----------To practice remembering them, I set each 'story' or at least the first peg picture inside a memory palace.
Actually, it's my backyard: Corner number one, the first picture (not described above); going clockwise, corner two near garden, a giant soiled shoe (6); corner three, a tot...(11); spinning dish over birdhouse (16).
The most important methods presented here areWord substitutionIt's hard to remember words that don't make sense and it's better to come up with something that is easier to visualize.
Each of the digits from 0-9 is associated with a consonant and the trick is to form words to remember long numbers, e.g. rose would be 40, buffalo would be 985 etc.
This is something I can't do yet although by having something for the 2-digit numbers enables me to use the system too.New to me was the so-called memory graph, a system with coordinates that you could use to remember locations or anatomy easier.
I have read other books about memory improvement so the important things were clear to me.
Turns out that when an atom of Cesium is bombarded with energy is starts vibrating / ticking and every such 9129631770 ticks counts as a second.
Hence the name atomic clock.
Absolutely brilliant.This was my first memory improvement book and I loved the techniques mentioned in here.
Although extremely impressed, I know I have to keep working on these techniques for a long time to get comfortable with them.
Will start recommending this book to a few people who might find it interesting."It is impossible to think without a mental picture." - Aristotle
Simply put: It works well, but requires putting much additional energy into creating memory sequences that I feel are not practical for the person looking for general memorization tricks
Because of the memory tips I learned in this book I was able to win almost $200,000 on a game show.
I'm only giving three stars because I read this back in the '70s, and, ironically, I don't remember any of it.
نتائج هذا الكتاب-بعد التطبيق- فورية..!!
there is a Simple techniques you can learn from this book that will help you to memorize alots of things
Good book. Does not go into memory palaces but has lots of good info. Also has lots of fluff.
I was looking for something different. This is an effective book if you'd like to learn about memorization techniques, but not necessarily about how i.e. to read better in order to retain more information. I was pleasantly surprised though to find out that memorization is an exercise of creativity, imagination, and humor. It's not a book to read casually, but to practice intensely, that if you want to reap the benefits (I didn't). I think that you really have to be interested in the topic in order to get through it in a committed way.
What I loved most about this book, is that it provides almost instant value. Just read the first three chapters, and bam, the ideas and techniques are simple and universal enough so you can apply them to remembering anything, from shopping lists to dates without reading further.You can keep on reading, and there are some good tips and tools provided in the rest of the book but it is entirely up to you.
Classic, still has lots to teachThere are quite a few dated references (circa 1974), and the techniques are shown with painfully lengthy examples, but the ideas are basic enough to get the first time through, with plenty of chance to practice. Groundbreaking work on the Peg System, Link System, and Loci System.
firstly there's nothing in this book you can't find on the internet, after reading the whole book there's only a few things il take away from it. it's worth a read if it's lying about but I wouldn't go out my way to find it.
The Memory BookI think that it has no new information but it has a very good summary of all techniques in a very clear way.
Absolutely fantastic. Beautiful techniques that you cannot (ahem... pardon the pun) forget...
2,5
I only got one tip out of this book. Wish it had more with learning text books. School. I will keep trying to see if I can apply what I read into college!
The way it's written is quite old fashioned, long winded, and utterly boring. I couldn't finish it.
Great reminder about how our memories really work!
