https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71149.Journey_into_the_Whirlwind
Si esprimeva l’antica esigenza dell’animo umano di coltivare speranza, annota Evgenija, che non poteva certo scrivere in quei frangenti, ma conservava nella memoria per consegnare alla carta i suoi preziosi ricordi molti anni dopo.La scoperta che all’arrivo nel campo di smistamento, le donne che viaggiano con lei vedono gli uomini dopo anni di carcere e iniziano subito storie d’amore appassionate: quegli esseri umani, ormai privi quasi di corpo, venuti a contatto l’uno con l’altro, improvvisamente, come per magia, riacquistarono l’intensità di percezioni smarrita a causa delle smisurate sofferenze patite.
Instead, I’ll take this opportunity to elaborate on some comments I made below, since I’m still kind of hung up on the ethics of reading ‘survivor literature’ – a topic of zero interest to anyone who’s not a complete tool like myself.
Despite all my prissy scruples, I think I could offer a plausible justification for this weird gulag obsession I’ve developed.
I love literature; I take it more seriously than almost anything else in the world, but I’m very sceptical of the proposition that we can learn anything essential about life just by ingesting a certain quantity and quality of printed matter.
I’m certainly not giving up on books, nor am I abandoning the gulag just yet.
Due to the continuing purges and concomitant necessary changes to accommodate all the people who were imprisoned her solitary confinement was interrupted and she was forced to share a cell (prison wasn't bad - there was a library service), later the two are deported to a labour camp in Siberia.
Ginzburg drags the reader with her from a comfortable life through accusation and imprisonment, solitary confinement to Siberian labour camp up to the point of impending death, it is quite a reading experience.Because this is an autobiographical account it contain a lot that who seem too impossible or ridiculous for fiction.
However, as the pages and hours pass Ginzburg's voice describes a dizzying array of psychological and physical horror ranging from her interrogation, isolation and transfer to the Gulag, where the book abruptly ends.
Her humanity shines through every page as she describes the life she is forced to endure.
Ginzburg's love of poetry and literature in general permeates her memoirs as it is one of the strengths that lifts her above the situation she is immersed in and allows her to keep struggling through the ruthless inferno.I felt such an injustice in my heart that this woman had to be dealt such a fate.
The horror is of course that millions of innocent people endured similar experiences as the ones Ginzburg describe.
Journey into the whirlwind recounts the story of active member of the communist Party for many years, Eugenia Semonovna Ginzburg, who was arrested like many of her fellow citizens during Stalin's reign of terror on trumped up charges of being a Trotskyist terrorist counter-revolutionary and sentenced to prison.
One reason is Jenny's incredible memory.
She never talks about her abilities or experiences as exceptional, but a number of episodes in the story reveal her literary knowledge and memory as outstanding.
These talents, as well as resourcefulness, good luck, and the help of people who like her somehow kept their integrity, helped her to survive, sustaining her will, feeding her spirit.
This book is one of those that shows you how much a person can survive and how much you the reader have to be grateful for.
I started to read this book without knowing it was an autobiography.
It was then that I realized the book was real: people were actually send to labor camp for 10 years after fake trials.
Innocent people, whose only fault was being born in the wrong time, were caught 'into the whirlwind' and they could not do anything else but go with the flow.What impressed me the most about Genia, the women telling her story, other than her resilience, was her believe in the Party.
Like most of the prisoners, she did not doubt the Party.
Тяжелые, но правдивые мемуары о ГУЛАГе, читать стоит всем!
One comment of her's I really liked was: "how thin the line is between high principles and blinkered intolerance,and also how relative are all human systems and ideologies and how absolute the tortures which human beings inflict on one another." Is there much difference between the US political parties and the communist party in their determination to impose their will on others?
She likes to use the word "whirlwind" in her book titles,is she referring to: "The wicked sow the wind and reap the whirlwind."
And Ginzburg does mention several times how difficult it is to be away from her children, and that during the gulag she tried not to talk about them because it was too emotionally destabilizing.
Understood.Another issue with the book is that it's advertised as a memoir of Ginzburg's "harrowing eighteen-year odyssey" through the gulag.
And in both countries there were those sad, deluded folks who believed that, if only Hitler knew about the horrors of Auschwitz, or Stalin about those of the gulag, they would put a stop to it!
Hailed an important work upon it's publication in 1967, Journey into the Whirlwind is Ginzburg's personal account her years in a Soviet prison during the reign of Josef Stalin.As a teenager I read Solhenitsyn's Gulag Archipelago, and was stunned at the brutality and inhumane treatment of political prisoners during the Stalin era.
Ginzburg's work brought back all those memories and more.
This alone makes it a valuable piece of literature - the fact that those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it.But Ginzburg also reveals a few equally important messages.
And second, human kindness doesn't cease to exist - even in the hell of a Soviet prison.
A wife and mother, living a life surrounded by people who thought as she did, Eugenia (Jenny) found herself caught up in Stalin’s Great Purge of 1937, accused on trumped up charges when her colleague Elvov at the university was charged with leading a counter-revolutionary group – a group that was totally fictitious.
Jenny is destined to remain in these camps for the next eighteen years, although this book is merely the first volume in Eugenia Ginzburg’s memoirs, and take us up to about 1940.
Christianity in the West soon became a male-dominated, hierarchical, centralised Monolith which persecuted and stamped out any other form of Christianity - and there were many varieties...and then sold itself as established by some divine light, in this case the Holy Spirit/Ghost.Many, many years later the Acts of the Apostles were resurrected in Tsarist Russia.
Es más testimonio que literatura (a diferencia de, por ejemplo, los recuerdos sobre el gulag ordenados por Shalamov), y en cuanto tales son valiosos por su cercanía y carga emotiva (cómo lo hace una mujer condenada a Siberia para no pensar en los dos hijos de 4 y 6 años que ha dejado atrás, por ejemplo), no por particulares recursos de estilo ni su síntesis.
En comparación con otros testimonios de víctimas del NKVD, creo que éste puede distinguirse porque no es sólo el recuento de años de máximo sufrimiento en prisiones inhumanas sino también del despertar de una leal comunista a la traición de la que es objeto y los horrores totalitarios que no había querido antes ver.
در دل گردبادیوگینا گینزبورگترجمه:فرزانه طاهریانتشارات نیلوفر 15 فوریه سال 1937 دستگاه امنیتی استالین ، یوگینا گینزبورگ را که کمونیستی مومن بود و علاوه بر تدریس در روزنامه تاتارستان سرخ مقاله می نوشت دستگیر کرد.کمی بعد والدینش نیز بازداشت و دو ماه بعد آزاد شدند.شوهرش را نیز دستگیر کردند. یوگینا تا 18 سال پس از آن را در زندان ها و اردوگاههای کار اجباری گوناگون گذراند
Part I (63%), covering her arrest and her period in solitary, is extremely moving and effective. The second part of the book (Part II) is duller and not written as well. I am not sure if these two parts correspond to her two books (presented as one), as kindle does not supply that information. Good, but a bit over-rated
This narrative is the true story of life in Soviet prison camps in Siberia in the Stalinist era of purges starting in 1937.
The Russians were very similar to the Nazis.
They sent prisoners to Siberia in large groups crowded into boxcars, with no food and very little water, and in the camps were put to work doing hard manual labor and basically starved to death or near death.
And as in the Nazi concentration camps, people tried to stay sane by doing small kindnesses for each other and maintaining dignity when possible.
I think it's understandable I was trepidatious about reading a memoir about The Great Purge and survival in gulags. It's not heavy, at all, and is written in a very easy...almost chatty style. This book is not a series of horrifying vignettes (although there are many harrowing stories), but really, it is a story of hope, and of touching humanism.
I wish all hardcover books were sewn through the fold.Evgenia Ginzburg was sent to prison during the Stalinist purges of the late 1930s on a trumped-up charge, like many others.
Ms. Ginzburg describes in detail the circumstances of her arrest, interrogation, and trial which resulted in a ten-year sentence of solitary confinement.
Mind you, she didn't actually serve in solitary for that long; due to overcrowding she was given a roommate after a while, and then was sent to the gulags with the rest of the political prisoners.
The book ends rather abruptly not long after her arrival at the work camp in Kolyma, in the far northeast of Siberia.
She was sentenced to 10 years solitary confinement, the standard sentence for any party member who wasn’t shot, but after two years Stalin must have realised he’d locked up too many people of working age – not only were they not producing, but they had to be fed and guarded – and she and many others were sent to do physical labour in Siberia instead.
This is the story of her arrest, her time in prison and the first few years at the work camp.
(view spoiler)[Visits were not permitted, and the only member of her close family she ever saw again was her younger son Vasily Aksyonov, aged 4 when she was arrested, who became a well known Russian novelist in the 1960s.
I enjoyed reading this memoir. After thinking about it for a bit, I was mostly struck by what WASN'T in there. Compared to wrongly accused criminals who are let out now, there was no expression of rage, or feeling of unfairness that 17 years of her life was taken away. Compared to other books about whole groups of people that were wrongly persecuted, there was no sense of "I'm bearing witness so this never happens again."It was more narrow. A description of what the prison and camps were like. All in all: glad I read it
This book has all of the usual variations of these survival stories in spades.What makes this a special book, however, is both Eugenia Ginzburg's fantastic writing, and the bizarro Soviet camp world she describes.
She explains how some imprisoned women dreamed of nothing but beautiful dresses they had lost, which might very well help them keep touch with the outside world, while others lost all connection with their former lives and became nothing but amoral prison cynics.
Prosecutors accusing people of violating the law knew they were spouting lies, as did the people who confessed to their crimes, as did the people who arrested and assailed them.
This is the story of a teacher at a University who was sentenced to 10 years hard labor during Stalin's rule for the"crime" of being on the same faculty of a professor denounced for Anti-Party rhetoric.
She actually ended up with a 17-year sentence.
Her worst years are documented here.
My favorite part was on p.115: "Once, at the end of a stifling hot day, ...we heard a passable baritone singing the Toreador's Aria from 'Carmen' in the following unusual version: "How many are you, pris'ners up there?
Please to declare!
Te-e-ell us who and what you are, Tell us, tell us, we implore!
10/5 kinda book. I would recommend it to absolutely every human being. Apparently, "Into the whirlwind", the English version of it, is lacking a lot of material from the original book, and it's a shame.

On the very slow train to Siberia in a human cattle-car with no view to the outside - with strict instructions to keep silent whenever the train came to a halt - apparently so no one in the stations would hear that there were people inside the cars - she began to recite Pushkin's "Eugene Onegin." A guard heard her and burst into the car and demanded that she give up "the book." (This suggests some common knowledge of Russian literature that the guard also recognized the text!).
She comments that even she was astonished at her feats of recitation as familiar literature came to her mind in full literal memory.One of the many striking features of this tale is that she and her fellow prisoners already knew the names of the prisons from their knowledge of Russian history.
This was a mind-boggling read (if only it were fiction!) but I found little in the book to appreciate other than the author’s seemingly inexhaustible ability to endure and will to live.
I would recommend reading a bit about the Russian purges of the 1930’s before beginning the book if your knowledge of Russian politics during this time period is as incomplete as mine was.
This book is required reading and informs our understanding of the world, our history, our future, and what humans are capable of doing to one another, but it goes down like taking one’s medicine.
That phrase alone “taking one’s medicine” takes on a different connotation after reading Ms. Ginzburg’s novel.
Bruce thinks this series (along with Within the Whirlwind) would be good to read before reading Russia Dies Laughing: Jokes from Soviet Russia. I think it looks like it would go well with One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. Apparently other people have likened it to The Gulag Archipelago Volume 1: An Experiment in Literary Investigation: 1.
Russian history is so completely engrossing to me, it's amazing to me that I got to take an entire class in college on just this country's history, and this is where I read this book.
Just in terms of general prison narrative, this is an amazing find.
The details of prison life are really what I remember most about it.
How she would tell entire stories from start to finish to her cellmates, remembering books she hadn't read in years almost word for word.
The resilience of the human mind, in short, is what stands out most to me when I think about this book.
Always stunning to read the horrors that people endured, this is a well written account of Genia's "crimes" against Stalin, and her 18 years of imprisonment.
This was a bit different from other accounts I have read as she describes more than just the state of her own situation.
I see that there is a second book that may answer much of what was left unsaid.
I must say, I went outside after finishing this book and spent some time appreciating my freedom, and a very beautiful open sky!
