https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63672.The_Diary_of_a_Country_Priest
Η μορφή αυτής της γραφής επιτρέπει στον συγγραφέα να παρουσιάσει μια σειρά απο πολύ βαθιά και ουσιώδη θέματα καθώς και πνευματικούς προβληματισμούς που αποτελούν την διανοητική βάση της ιστορίας.
Το ερώτημα που κυριαρχεί εξ αρχής και διαπνέει όλη την επιθανάτια εξομολόγηση του βιβλίου είναι το «γιατί να βασανιζόμαστε καθημερινά και ανελέητα απο οδυνηρές αμφιβολίες, πλήξη, αντιπαλότητα, αίσθηση ματαιότητας, απελπισία και αδιάγνωστες κακοήθειες σε κάθε μορφή».
Η ανάγνωση του ίδιου του βιβλίου αναπόφευκτα περιβάλλεται απο μια ζοφερή ατμόσφαιρα που ταυτίζεται με τον εφημέριο.
Η φωνή του είναι εσωτερική και βαθιά σπαρακτική με μια προσπάθεια μετάβασης στην επιτυχημένη ευτυχία της ανθρωπότητας.
On the surface, it looks like a simple tale of an ordinary young Catholic priest and his priestly mission in a parish in the rural France.
What is behind this simple tale is a narration of many spiritual struggles.
Bernanos was a devout Catholic and he wanted to be a priest.
He remained a devout Catholic and became a great writer.
I am very much grateful to God and to Bernanos.P.S. I have a tendency to collect some books as my 'death bed companions'- the books of my last days.
Deceptively quiet book which starts off very slowly; though I knew it had to be going somewhere, it is easy to see why some readers miss its depths—I stopped and started it several times myself.
And then...!The gist of the story is an inexperienced, young priest arrives at his first parish, a little place out in the country and begins to keep a diary.
It is in these epic dialogues George Bernanos' reason for writing this testimony to faith is truly revealed.It isn’t an action book.
One of the most faith-affirming books I’ve read this year!
Στη λογική αυτή, καθίσταται ξεκάθαρος ο συμβολισμός: Ο εφημέριος ακολουθεί τα βήματα του Ιησού προς το μαρτύριο και τη λύτρωση, εν μέσω ενός απόντος ποιμνίου, μια έμπλεης πλήξης κοινότητας.
Συγκεκριμένα, πάσχει από το "προπατορικό αμάρτημα" των γαλλικών γραμμάτων και τέχνης εν γένει: φλυαρία, στόμφος, πληθώρα αφορισμών και ήρωες που ομιλούν την ίδια "γλώσσα" ως φορείς ιδεών.
Οι διάλογοι συχνά ηχούν ψεύτικοι, μια αλληλουχία από "ατάκες", σίγουρα πνευματώδεις, φιλοσοφημένοι και εμβριθείς, αλλά για τον λόγο αυτό κάποιες στιγμές παράταιροι και ενίοτε κουραστικοί.
Το "Ημερολόγιο" συχνά δίνει την εντύπωση πως "πνίγεται" από το υπερχείλισμα των ιδεών του, ασφυκτιά υπό το βάρος της επαγγελίας του, "στομώνει" από τη ορμή του διαπρύσιου λόγου του.
This is the second or third time I have read The Diary of a Country Priest -- and each time I find it has rocked my world.There is a kind of imaginative religious novel in which a saintly joyful figure moves from strength to strength until he or she is ascended bodily into the heavens.
Grace is everywhere."Diary of a Country Priest is perhaps a true study of sanctity in a hostile world.
Perhaps Bernanos has given us a sense of reality in a troubled world which is more honest and true than what religious authorities would have us believe.
Still, I’d read only glowing reviews and boy was I ready for a “triumphant experience.” But on p.
If only I lived near a (English) library I’d run so much less risk of wasting money on books.
I checked my order though, and thanks to Amazon, I paid “just” $11.48 for “The Diary of a Country Priest,” so I feel a few dollars better already.
Plus I ordered it along with “The Shadow of Sirius” and “Blood Meridian,” both of which paid off.
So actually I only lost 81 cents in this deal, making it easier to swallow.I’m returning to this century now.
Before his death on April 4th, 1947, Georges Bernanos gave a lecture in Tunisia entitled "Our Friends the Saints" which can teach us to say to the Lord, Lord, your love is infinite; I can't fathom it and it is sufficient for me, to which the Lord might answer us as he answered the mother who lost her little one,{ there is a mother who is hiding her face for the last time against the little heart that no longer throbs, a mother, close to her dead child, offering God the moaning of an exhausted resignation, as if the Voice that threw the suns into the great void the way a hand disperses grain, the Voice that makes the earth tremble, had just sweetly whispered in her ear: “Forgive Me. One day you will know, you will understand, you will thank Me. But now, what I await from you is your pardon.
As the novel concludes: Grace is everywhere.This is must reading for Catholics who need to be reminded periodically of the exceptional courage of so many of our priests and nuns.For readers unfamiliar with the culture context of France between the two wars, it might be helpful to first watch Robert Bresson's movie of the same name which has been hailed as a masterpiece by such diverse critics as Ingmar Bergman and Jean-Luc Godard.
After seeing the movie, I read the book a second time and got much more out of it.
This sad little book moves at the speed of human breath in repose, then spurred toward the halting gasps of mortal exertion.
I can't recall ever reading a more painful, moving depiction of truly humble self-sacrifice than the eponymous priest's in Bernanos's engrossing, masterful clinic in the diaristic form of literature.
I first heard of the book in an interview with Marilynne Robinson, in which it was cited (by the interviewer) as an apparent predecessor to Robinson's own brilliant and clerically ruminative novel, 'Gilead'.
What Bernanos creates in this book is an enchanting, anti-hagiographical portrait of a living saint, in all his selfless, self-doubting glory.
Also, her choice of dialects was terrible (French peasants who speak like Irish or Cockneys!) From what I've read from other readers, the Diary is difficult enough to get through without this poor translation of it.
And then...!"The gist of the story is an inexperienced, young priest arrives at his first parish, a little place out in the country and begins to keep a diary.
One of the most faith-affirming books I’ve read this year!" (review in full by Goodreads participant "booklady")I would have liked to have made more marks in the book to go back and reread.
The book sets forth in living black-and-white an aspect of France that many disregard: the terribly self-punishing, rigid, miserable, very November (of one's soul, so to speak) French Catholicism of times not all that very much gone by.
How would one transfer Bernanos in this book to film?
No. Not the God of so many French Catholics.
This strain, this slice of French being is essential for knowing and feeling France and its peoples.
But the French over the past fifty years have been voting with their feet.
The Parisian Georges Bernanos (1888-1948) is one of the last century's greatest Catholic novelists, and this is probably his most admired book.
As the title indicates, this is a fictional "diary" of a young, very ill, priest who is trying manfully to administer well to his small countryside parish.
It is difficult to do justice to the seriousness and profundity of this book.
I hope one day soon to attempt a short essay on Catholic fiction as exemplified by George Bernanos's The Diary of a Country Priest and Francois Mauriac's The Viper's Nest.
I actually found it incredibly difficult to understand.
I read a 1962 edition that doesn't even cite a translator -- so many of the sentences were so convoluted as to be utterly obtuse.
Poor translation or witless reader?
I never could figure out why Mlle Chantal was such an angry bitch and why she insisted on tormenting the priest.
Was the priest an alcoholic or just terminally sick?
Forget the whole spiritual aspect--much of what the priest mused on and felt was incomprehensible to me as he described it.
It's rather embarrassing actually--I feel so simple!
I was expecting great things, but I couldn't even get through half of it. Hard to follow, boring, lots of long discourses that didn't have a point. I don't know, didn't get it. I have a copy of it if you'd life to give it a whirl.
Beautiful. "We need more 'no name' priests." - Fr. Ron G. regarding the priest of The Diary.
"Odiarsi è più facile di quanto si creda. La grazie consiste nel dimenticarsi. Ma se in noi fosse morto ogni orgoglio, la grazia delle grazie sarebbe di amare umilmente se stessi, allo stesso modo di qualunque altro membro sofferente di Gesù Cristo".Un indimenticabile "Diario di un curato di campagna", che mi ha accompagnato fin dalla prima giovinezza. Un povero curato "macinato" dalla vita che alla fine di tutto, negli ultimi tristissimi istanti sussurra: "Che importa? Tutto è grazia".Sì, tutto è grazia.
“Diário de um Pároco de Aldeia” era daqueles livros que, junto com “Nó de Víboras” e outros clássicos do romance católico, eu já havia anotado numa listinha de “a ler” há mais de 10 anos, por influência do Professor Olavo, mas que ficava olhando de longe, matutando se, de fato, eu teria capacidade para compreendê-lo.Agora, tendo finalmente lido o livro, tenho certeza de que está acima das minhas capacidades, não digo intelectuais, porque nesse ponto ele não apresenta maiores dificuldades – não se trata propriamente de um romance filosófico -, mas sim espirituais.A primeira vez que ouvi falar de Bernanos foi no site do prof.
Ayer mismo le decía al señor cura de Norefontes que el bien y el mal deben hallarse equilibrados, o si lo prefería, superpuestos uno y otro sin mezclarse, como dos líquidos de distinta densidad.
Sus ocurrencias provocan la hilaridad en los presbiterios y él suele acompañarlas con una mirada que quiere ser viva y que en el fondo es tan marchita, tan fatigada, que al verla me dan ganas de llorar [...]Qué pocos son los libros que desde la primera línea me generan la dulce inquietud de que acá se va a ir todo al traste.Toda la novela tiene menos de cristianismo y más de existencialismo de lo que parece.
Emocionante.La impotencia de un hombre humilde ante Dios y la humanidad, aunque esa humanidad sea tan sólo un remoto pueblo del norte de Francia y ese hombre sea un sacerdote.La gracia recibida hace de su tarea una obra de proporciones titánicas en manos de un hombre tímido, reservado y enfermo.
A su lado Dios, la Iglesia, representada por la figura amable e íntegra del cura de Torcy, y la conciencia de su misión.
Frente a él, un mundo mezquino, simple y vulgar, lleno del dolor sordo de los hábitos y las rutinas; y la esperanza.Un hombre torturado por su debilidad, pero capaz del heroísmo del amor.Bernanos hace teología con una comprensión del alma humana más que notable.
A beautiful book that captures the trials and joys of a young priest in France in the first part of the 20th Century. The book kept me engrossed, but I must say that I felt as if I was reading it through a cloudy set of glasses. I'd be hard pressed to relate all that happens to the unnamed (I think) priest. I have a hunch that the English translation (there seems to be only one) is not that great. Still I highly recommend this novel.
Reader Response Paper-writingThe Diary of a Country Priest By GEORGE BERNANOS I just finished the novel so you will have to excuse me of my immediate sadness and sorrow for a man so beautiful and full of life. I could not bear to feel him die. Yes, feel. I felt as though I was with him in all his time of turmoil, agony, and internal suffering. I understand the meaning of Grace now, or at least I think I do. He meant that no matter what evil or hatred has been or is bestowed upon you that it does
I do believe this is the underlying message of this wonderful and enlightening book that is difficult to describe in words, as words will only convey an injustice to the growth and meaning it had to me	I think the evidence for my pretext of meaning for this novel can be seen at the beginning of chapter five, after his spiritual confrontation with Mademoiselle, daughter of M.
All these attempts by the devil were to alienate Jesus from God, and in the same way the Priest in the novel is repeatedly drawn into battle of this nature regarding his allegiance to God. Though for the most part he believes, unconsciously, his greatest opponent was himself by his doubt, his self-reproach, his nightmares.
My early impression of this novel was that it felt like a cross between The Brothers Karamazov and Gilead. By the end that comparison ceased to be helpful in describing this unique and profound work. 4.5 stars.
In Marilynne Robinson's GILEAD (2005), to which it has been compared, the psychological drama is mostly displaced and off-stage; we get hints of the narrator's moral and spiritual growth.
In THE DIARY OF A COUNTRY PRIEST, by contrast, the first-person accounts vividly reproduce what happened off-stage, so that one feels the writer's often painful growth.
Greene's novel is also about a "failed" country priest, while Waugh's (another first-person narrative) is one of the great "conversion novels."One other (of many, I'm sure) noteworthy feature of the book is the almost Dostoevskyan monologues.
Like many diaries, this novel at first comes across as drifting in focus, centered on the mundane interactions with the priest's flock, fellow churchmen and suppliers of his wine and food.
Bernanos probably considered the ending to be his statement (as in his libretto to Poulenc's "Dialogue of the Carmelites", in which much is made of the way the fearful Blanche joins the sisters about to be executed), but what impresses overall is the struggle of an unremarkable, if sincere priest for faith in a countryside that is spiritually inhospitable.
though i remember it only dimly, i know that it changed my life, the way some books do.
like If This Is a Man. like that book by czeslaw milosz in which he riffs on whitman, whose title i cannot remember/find to save my life, and which got dropped to the bottom of the atlantic ocean when i tried to ship my books across continents in a box that was way too slight to hold so much weight.
i thank mike for this, and linda.this "review" has almost nothing to do with the book it is supposed to review, but maybe my friends will read it anyway and understand why i needed to write it.
Bernanos is one of the greatest Catholic writers of the 20th Century and this book, winner of the 1936 Grand-Prix of the French Academy, is widely recognised as his masterpiece.
A tale of a young, seemingly inept, parish priest in a remote French village, this is indeed a remarkable novel but not necessarily an enjoyable one.
Difficult is what it certainly is.
Bernanos provides no easy or convenient answers and, for a Catholic novel which ends on a note of hope, it has more than its fair share of existentialist angst.
This is to some extent a "philosophical novel" in which the events are mainly a platform for extended conversations on the nature of God and belief among characters representing every social level of their town.Our young priest is unusual in that he doesn't simply provide comfort and fulfill the rituals - he forces a few of his parishioners to confront their actual faith, or lack thereof.
Let me describe myself, so you understand where I'm coming from.
I'm 62 years old.
Pre-Vatican American Catholic.
Altarboy saying the Mass in Latin way back when in the '60's.
Since then, something of a tough guy.
Military vet.
Trial Lawyer.
Sinner.
Left the Church for personal reasons.
I imagine that this book will have little appeal for most of my non-Christian friends, and even my Protestant friends, who simply don't "get" Catholic religiosity.
However, for you present or fallen away Catholics, I hardly recommend the book highly enough.
I found myself skimming the long tedious monologues through this book, which got me to the end quicker, but didn't give me the full picture of the book.
At first I found myself interested in the main character's life, but as it took quite a while for the crux of the story to show itself (some could argue that the crux doesn't really show itself until the very end of the book...), I lost interest and could not immerse myself in the story.
I actually didn't finish the book.
I bought it and started it because it was a favorite book of one of my favorite authors.
I found it depressing (the sad ending of the book is revealed in the introduction - skip it if you don't want to know!).
Admittedly it is French in origin and there were references to unfamiliar things to me - which might not be an obstacle to others.
I have read thrilling reviews, but ultimately the book was a downer.
I liked the first part as I got to know the priest, but the passages which struck a chord were few and far between.
