https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1408078.House_of_Cards
This is a political thriller of the first rank. Even after having seen House of Cards on TV (the American version) this book was still a fascinating read. I could hear Kevin Spacey's brilliantly evil voice in many of the written lines. The use of the press to twist and distort political events and perceptions is well portrayed and utterly frightening, especially as we see the Koch brothers and Fox News seeking to do the same thing in America now. People are often ill-informed and naive, in the book and in life.
It's a good read, but maybe not a great read. If we were allowed half stars it'd be three and a half. More than three for the intriguing concept. But.I think it may even be one of those rare occasions when the TV adaptation has something the book lacks. I think it's down to Francis Urquhart himself. Ian Richardson made him so believable and so intensely bad....I'm undecided whether or not to do books two and three.
"Por su propia naturaleza, la ambición necesita víctimas" Este libro fue concebido con una premisa simple: como deshacerse de un primer ministro. Si bien esto puede realizarse de muchas maneras,y muchas veces ni siquiera que alguien alevosamente mueva los hilos, aquí esto es tejido en pro de satisfacer la ambición y vengar el resentimiento de un miembro del partido, A.K.A. nuestro protagonista, Frank Underwood Urquhart. "La política requiere sacrificios. El sacrificio de los demás, por supuesto
Si bien en el inicio Frank se me figuró un personaje en cierto modo débil, de hecho supongo que la idea del autor era esa demostrar que en la política hasta los individuos más reprimidos son capaces de acciones terribles, pasadas unas páginas notamos como el personaje despliega toda su inventiva con el fin de hundir al primer ministro electo, no obstante no se puede decir que el personaje sea fuerte, más bien su furia lo lleva a iniciar un plan que después, tal como el ha dicho, no puede controlar y que continúa entramando hasta el final más por la necesidad de evitar que él mismo se hunda conforme la historia avanza.
I don't use Netflix so I've yet to see the TV series (have these producers never heard of releasing to DVD before?) but the book is incredible and very deep when it comes to the ruthless nature of politics and the cutthroat atmosphere in the background of it all. With realistic characters and an engrossing plot, House of Cards is a book unlike any other.
Todella viihdyttävä poliittinen valtapeli, jossa ei keinoja kaihdeta päämäärien saavuttamiseksi.Sanon nyt suoraan, että jos ei ole lainkaan kiinnostunut politiikasta (tai lähinnä siitä suljettujen ovien takaisesta, yleisöltä salassa pidetystä touhusta) niin tämä kirja ei ole sinulle. Mutta jos haluat päästä sisään Britannian parlamenttiin ja päästä lukemaan asiantuntemuksella kirjoitettua tekstiä niin kyllä, lue tämä.Jännää miten aloitettuani tämän kirjan en yhtään osannut nähdä Kevin Spaceytä Francis Urquhartina (tai Frank Underwoodina kuten tv-sarjassa hänen nimensä on), mutta kun olen nyt about kahdeksan jaksoa sarjaa katsonut en osaa nähdä enää muuta kuin Spaceyn kasvot.Erittäin nokkela teos. Neljä tähteä!
The sacrifice of others, of course.” If you are looking for the most sensational political thriller..
Being British and highly interested in politics I'm surprised I didn't discover these sooner.
Francis Urquhart is the Chief Whip for the British government.
For those who don't know British politics overly well he is responsible for knowing everything (and I mean everything) about all the government's Member's of Parliament including cabinet ministers.
Even if you don't overly follow politics you will get enjoyment out of this book, the background is explained without needing vast knowledge...
There are two more books in the series!
I was never really interested in politics and how a country should be handled but 1) I was in mood for something corrupted and 2) my brother (who by the way is into politics) asked me to read it and tell him my opinion.
Francis was probably the character I hated the most, although he is an amazing protagonist for a book like that.
If you want to read a political thriller with lots of twists and utterly messed up and corrupted characters, I totally suggest it.
This opening book of the trilogy lays the groundwork for what looks to be a sensational British political series, centred on one Member of Parliament and his addiction to power, no matter the cost.
In what can only be described as a true ascent to power of both characters, Dobbs sets the scene for some explosive action in the books that follow and will surely have readers on the edge of their seats.I can admit an addiction to the Netflix-based Americanisation of this novel and how intriguing it was.
I've long been a fan of the original BBC series based on this book and have always meant to read it, so with my son nagging me to hurry up and watch the new US series I thought it was time to finally get around to reading the book that started it all. Very glad I did. Well worth the read. Also makes me appreciate the full extent of what Andrew Davies so cleverly did with the original series. Love it!!Am now eagerly awaiting the next two books in the trilogy :).
Ένα συναρπαστικό πολιτικό θρίλερ! Δεν θα απογοητεύσει κανέναν.
I found all the characters acted in an extremely superficial and fake manner, making them difficult to enjoy and believe in.The writing in this book was also insufferable.
Normally I don't have a problem following even the most confusing of story-lines, but this book posed a serious challenge to me.
This book is completely about the government, so if you don't have a solid political understanding, this book is a challenge to follow and read.Honestly, I had been hoping that after reading this book I would want to watch and enjoy the show.
[Although I'll note here, almost a year later, that I haven't bothered to track 'em down]It reminded me a lot of the pre-Watergate Washington novels I read when I was a kid, like Advise and Consent or The President's Plane Is Missing.Some quotes:“But that’s all bloody Horlicks, Frankie, and you know it.”“…You can’t hide away in journalism—investigating, exposing, pulling other people’s worlds apart in search of the truth—unless you are willing to face those people afterward and live with their pain.”	“That’s not fair…” she protested.
Look for the truth, Mattie, by all means, but only if you’re willing to recognize and share the pain it may cause.
After sitting down and watching the adaptations of this novel on Netflix with Kevin Spacey in the lead role, I was hooked.
But he is passed over and FU vows a bloody revenge on the Prime Minister -- and this novel reveals the convoluted tail of ambition, power and sheer wickedness.
If you've only seen the Netflix series (and if you haven't, you should) rest assured that this won't ruin anything.
I found it to be an intriguing intersection with the series, and only whetted my appetite to read the rest of the series, and hoped that there will be a third season on Netflix to come.
Към края ми стана доста по-интересна, но като цяло Играта на тронове в Британския парламент ми беше твърде суховата..
Stupendosi di esserci riuscito.Non è che quando i giochi sono ormai fatti, che finalmente capisce cosa ha realmente ottenuto e decide di puntare al vertice.E’ molto diversa anche la moglie, Mortima, rispetto alla Claire della tv.Mortima ha interessi personali ma non è una donna in carriera con le sue attività da mandare avanti, si piega alle necessità del marito ma non è sua pari in tutto, eccessi compresi.Sopratutto, è diverso il nemico, l’avversario da abbattere.Il Presidente Americano è appena stato eletto, è saldissimo al potere e serviranno due stagioni a un Frank Underwood deciso e privo di morale a spodestarlo.Il Primo Ministro invece è una figura debole e quasi paterna, proposta anni addietro come successore della Tatcher per allontanare il partito dalla figura intransigente e forte di lei.
Michael Dobbs lo escribió, de hecho, cuando dejó de ser jefe de gabinete de Margaret Thatcher; cabe pensar cómo trataría a sus compañeros la Dama de Hierro, para que el pobre tuviera tanta rabia acumulada para pasársele por la cabeza esta historia.Dobbs recoge en este libro lo peor de la política en la figura de Francis Urquhart.
Στις περισσότερες (αν όχι όλες) των περιπτώσεων, δε μπορώ να διαβάσω ένα βιβλίο αν έχω δει την ταινία ή τη σειρά που έχουν προέλθει από αυτό.
Το ίδιο ισχύει και με το House of Cards το οποίο το ξεκίνησα ξέροντας μόνο ότι έχει να κάνει με πλεκτάνες μέσα στο Βρετανικό Κοινοβούλιο, και πράγματι έτσι είναι.
Μπορούμε, κρατώντας μια πισινή, να υποθέσουμε ότι πολλά από αυτά που γράφονται στο βιβλίο έχουν συμβεί, και αν όχι έτσι σε παρόμοιες εκδοχές.
Αλλά και να μην ξέραμε ποιος είναι ο συγγραφέας, πάλι πολλά από αυτά τα υποθέτουμε βλέποντας την πολιτική ζωή της κάθε χώρας.
YOU might think:- this book is rather tedious and dull- without much description or characterization- it doesn't flow well or have much emotion behind it- it might have been better had it stuck with "FU"'s narrative voice from beginning to end- the BBC series with Ian Richardson smirking and winking into the camera is far superiorBut I couldn't possibly comment!
Προσπάθησα πάρα πολύ να διαχωρίσω το βιβλίο από τη σειρά, την ίδια στιγμή που δεν έπρεπε να το κάνω, καθώς η σειρά δε βασίζεται απλώς στο βιβλίο αλλά γεννήθηκε από αυτό. Ωστόσο είχα συνηθίσει το αμερικάνικο πολιτικό σύστημα. Σε κάθε περίπτωση πρόκειται για ένα εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο βιβλίο, μια απίστευτη ιστορία με επίκεντρο τον λατρεμένο Φράνσις.
This was a highly entertaining political thriller. I loved following the journalist Mattie as she tries to understand what is going on. I also enjoyed "chief whip" Francis Urquhart machinations to get to power. Irreverent and fun. Makes me wonder about real life politics!
One of the best political thrillers I have read ... The games, the characters and the intrigue - all just perfectly weaved to make it a fast and gripping read!! Thoroughly enjoyed it
I really enjoyed this book but it left me feeling somewhat depressed as it hammers home that the Government is an absolute shambles, full of self serving power hungry wankers.
Nothing in this story is unbelievable and it bloody well should be!
But it wouldn't surprise me if something like this came out of Parliament.
We almost expect politicians to act like this now, that it's hardly shocking when a scandal rears its ugly head.
I wish they'd just put their differences aside and get on with the job of running the country.
A political thriller you are sure to like.
But there are two more books about him?
Всичко е позволено в борбата за власт: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...Романът е опростен като сюжет и поне за мен предвидим като край, но точно така и трябваше да завърши, всичко друго би било половинчато и безгръбначно.
Медиите са важни по тия страници – техните собственици, редактори и репортери, балансът между дълг и умение за нагаждане, симбиозата с политическата класа, но и нуждата все пак да я жилят от време на време.
Добс поставя важни въпроси с ясни отговори – но няма да откриете рецепта за измъкване от създалата се биосистема на взаимно подхранване.CIELA Books﻿http://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...
Por lo tanto decide vengarse, y nada menos que derrocando al Primer Ministro y ocupar su lugar.Y lo que sigue es una serie de manipulaciones e intrigas, que muestran cómo derrocar a un Primer Ministro, o a cualquier político, si se tiene la información y las agallas suficientes.Algunos de los escenarios son poco creibles, y hay otros brillantes.
En general tiene un excelente ritmo, FU es todo un personaje, aunque los secundarios no están tan desarrollados como debiéran.Esperaba que el libro fuese más profundo o cesudo, pero por lo menos es igual de entretenido que la serie.
I thought it was okay. I don't think I was totally enamored with it, but it was something nice to read and since I watched 4 seasons of the Netflix series, it was interesting to see parallels. I can definitely see the basis for some of the Netflix characters. All in all, not bad, it had the appropriate amount of backstabbing, runaround, and general politickiness (new word!) one would expect from an election year.
Ούτε αστέρι δεν θα βάλω αν μπορώ, μου είναι εντελώς ακατανόητο. Μέχρι εδώ που έφτασα μιλάει για τις εκλογές στην Αγγλία, για τον τρόπο που λειτουργεί η βουλή τους, για τις ατιμίες των πολιτικών κα ιτις σχέσεις τους με τους δημοσιογράφους. Διαβασμένο: σελ 142/485
Хареса ми.
N-am să descriu cartea prin adjective siropoase de genul "superbă", "minunată" etc deoarece scrierea se ridică mult deasupra acestora, în primul rând, iar în al doilea, acestor termeni nu le văd locul lângă o carte cu un nucleu central nemilos, crud, şocant: lupta pentru putere.
În lupta pentru putere se găsesc fie oameni cruzi, fără scrupule şi extrem de calculați dar care rămân umili în umbră (Francis Urquhart), fie oameni slabi de înger care încearcă să ofere iluzia de încredere de sine şi putere absolută dar care pot fi trimişi la pământ (sau sub pământ, în unele cazuri) la fel de uşor ca un castel din cărți de joc.
Finalul neaşteptat lasă cititorul într-o stare de şoc, să zicem, trezindu-i, însă, interesul pentru partea a doua.
Dobbs ciekawie portretuje środowisko polityczne Wielkiej Brytanii pokazując skorumpowany świat ludzi sprawujących władzę w państwie, jednocześnie formuje bohatera na tyle chytrego i nieprzebierającego w środkach, że temu udaje się dosłownie wśliznąć na fotel Premiera niszcząc swoich oponentów, jednego za drugim, cały czas udając ich przyjaciela i zaufanego współpracownika.
Francis po trupach swoich kolegów dąży do władzy i szacunku, który wg jego mniemania, po prostu mu się należy i śledzenie losów jego i reszty postaci, jest fascynujące, ale i trochę przerażające.
Ένα μικρό σχόλιο για το φιάσκο της έκτης σεζόν της σειράς του Netflix. Οποιαδήποτε ομοιότητα με το βιβλίο του Dobbs είναι εντελώς συμπτωματική, καθότι δεν το έχω διαβάσει και μάλλον δε θα το κάνω κιόλας. https://pepperlines.blogspot.com/2018...
