https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643974.I_is_for_Innocent
I is for innocent is definitely one of the best book of the series, IMHO. The care taken, the thoughtful planning, everything was just perfect, including the title.I don't have much to say, you know? I'm replete. I almost went back and almost reread it.There are two types of books, those that give off light and those that need a light to be understood. This book is neither. It's pure candy. It's cloying sugar. There are just enough pages to binge through. Enjoy.
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to I is for Innocent, the 9th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1992 by Sue Grafton. Innocent is a great example of why this is a good book series to read. Kinsey is funny but not silly. She is real, but flawed. The book is split into thirds, covering different angles of the case. Another example of Kinsey taking a case trying to determine what happened many years ago. But this time, she's partnering with another detective, then taking it ov
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to I is for Innocent, the 9th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 1992 by Sue Grafton.
Innocent is a great example of why this is a good book series to read.
The book is split into thirds, covering different angles of the case.
Another example of Kinsey taking a case trying to determine what happened many years ago.
With good detective skills, some charm and a little ingenuity.
That's what these books are all about.
Part luck, part smarts, Kinsey always solves the case.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Another excellent entry in this delightfully long series . So nice to know that I still have so many left to read:)Kinsey stumbles around a bit in this one, partly because there are so many possible murderers that it is hard to sort them all out. She finds out in the end basically by accident and also finds herself in a very sticky position. All very typically Kinsey. Sue Grafton's books are easy, entertaining reads and I always look forward to reading the next one.
After a disappointing H is for Homicide, Sue Grafton returns to form. Another great read from her. It's a good mystery, that unfolds at the perfect pace. The regular characters are back with the addition of Henry's fussy brother William. Kinsey's friends appear at good points in the story to keep things interesting. Even with the book being 25 years old at this point, Kinsey's cynical observations are still pointed and fun.
Five years ago, Isabelle Barney was murdered on the day after Christmas.
Kinsey has been hired to help the lawyer win the case, taking over from a PI who just died.
But as she goes, she begins to wonder just who committed the murder.
Is she helping the court case, or hurting it?Kinsey is back in top form in this book.
The plot twists all over the place before coming to a perfectly logical climax.
Henry and Rosie are involved in a very fun sub-plot that provides some laughs.
Interesting plot with a lot of characters, sometimes hard to keep straight. Grafton brings in another old friend of Kinsey and continues the storyline with her landlord and his family.In a 2015 re-read, I wonder, does Grafton stereotype managers in motels?
**If you're looking for ONLY the summary of the book, please scroll down to the section below the break in the page**While reading, I started to remember why I put this series down in the first place.
Grafton does an excellent job inventing characters.
Does the "throw away" details outweigh my joy for the characters and plot?
Right now, the characters redeem the inconsequential details, so I will continue.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Now, to this particular book.Isabelle was shot through key hole 5 years ago and her ex-husband is sour because he wanted her money, but instead it went to her current husband, the suspected killer.
I did not warm up to Kinsey Millhone, and truly liking the investigator is almost required for enjoying these kinds of books.
Not being a big fan of this genre, I am probably not the best person to judge how effective this series is.
Obviously, a lot of people love it, or it wouldn't be a national bestseller and I wouldn't see multiple copies of these books on all the used bookstore shelves.
I don't think I will read any more of the series, however, since it just wasn't the right fit for me.
I really love my Kinsey Milhone mystery novels.
The investigator having died, leaves Kinsey starting at square one with the case.The writing is very good and we have some oldies but goodies (Kinsey talking about her favorite sandwich and fast food) as well as Kinsey just doing straigh investigative work looking to find out who killed Isabelle Barney.
One reason why I like the Kinsey Milhone mystery series is that since these novels take place in the 1980s we have Kinsey doing a lot of leg work and having to use her brain on what steps to take next.
Started off slow, not the usual fast past till half way though but I still really enjoyed this one. I want to see what the next book is like
Breezing right along in the alphabet books...this is deliciously twisted...almost Agatha-Christie-like in the multiple motives of the characters as they turn on each other. Kinsie has acquired a new office, a new car, and a new home over the course of the last few books...I'm trying to pay closer attention to the chronology. I know Grafton kept Kinsie in the late 80's, into the 90's, even as her readers moved faster. Seasons come and go in Santa Teresa...Still my favorite details are Kinsie's astute descriptions of people in her first introduction. Such great words!!
I know I didn’t love this book and that is for several reasons.
Also, this book had a very small population of characters with a lot of connections with some of those connections seeming like Grafton just threw them in.
The book was saved though by the final confrontation between Kinsey and the suspect.
I did like seeing Kinsey moving on and working through a new organization, Lonnie Kingman’s law firm.
Lonnie is a great new character with a large personality that doesn’t overwhelm the rest of the book.
He has a great chemistry with Kinsey.
So glad that there are 26 letters in the alphabet! A light, fast read with likeable characters. 3.5 KUYH's 2016 challenge
Here, in I For Innocent, Kinsey Milhone takes a bit of a left turn as her contract with California Fidelity Insurance was abruptly terminated in the previous book (which I have not yet read) and now works for a law firm, taken over from a Private investigator, Morley Shine, who died from a heart attack, only a day ago.
I would have liked to have a better wrap-up in the epilogue.There’s one question I have, and maybe it escaped me, but in what year do the alphabet books situate themselves?
I know that some people find this annoying, but I like to imagine things while I’m reading and if she just mentioned “I’m in a small house with a lady” I would probably picture this lady in a blue dress and looking like Alice from Alice in Wonderland.Grafton does a good job of describing Kinsey’s surroundings but not in a way where it’s all descriptive things because that just gets annoying.
If someone got bored with her doing regular PI work, they should read this book and get a break from what Kinsey usually does.This whole book I was going back and forth on if David Barney really killed Isabelle or if someone else did it.
it started off slow, but about half way through it picked up pace and became the Kinsey we know and love.
A great mystery series.
I enjoyed this book...as most of Kinsey Millhone stories!
Interesting.Kinsey makes $55 an hour in this book, an increase from the $30 she’s been making up until now.
It’s December 1983 in Kinsey’s world, just the second year of her P.I. life story, so she’s still 33.
Film has an advantage over digital in this book because Kinsey finds a receipt for film development, the photos she picks up helping her toward some answers she’s seeking.
In a digital world, she might not have had the same luck.
That’s where she found the receipt for film development.It’s definitely fun to look for subtle references to her earlier cases.
Kinsey Millhone takes over the case of a recently deceased PI.
The case involves a guy that was charged with his wife's murder, but he was acquitted.
At first, Kinsey wants to work the case, but she soon learns the other PIs records were a mess, and she's not sure what he was doing with the case.
These are entertaining mysteries involving the Private Investigator Kinsey Millhone.
I enjoyed solving the case along with Kinsey.
This case was involved and took some works before Kinsey was able to piece it all together.
A well-written mystery. I had read it some years ago and enjoyed it then. I was surprised to enjoy it so much the second time around. I had totally forgotten who the bad guy was although I remembered many details as the story unfolded. There are some very likeable characters in this series including Kinsey's neighbor Henry, his brother William and best of all, the Hungarian restaurant owner Rosie.
4 StarsI really enjoyed this episode of the Kinsey chronicles!! Gee whiz; did everyone have something to hide?? I had inkling of the killer beforehand, but then so many potentials kept creeping in. I love her interaction with Henry and his hypochondriac brother, William. Had about 3 out-loud, giggle moments. Kinsey was her usual feisty self; and really managed to have a method to her madness. I was just starting to wonder about that girl.Well, on to the next one!
This is the ninth book in the series, but the first one I listen to as an audiobook. I was a bit hesitant at first, but in the end I really really loved it. Mary Pfeiffer was excellent, with a deep voice, sometimes a bit detached, just like I've always imagined Kinsey would sound like. The story itself was interesting and entertaining, with lots of suspects, lots of possibilities and a new start for Kinsey in her new office with a new employer. Four stars!
Listened to this on audiobook and the best thing I can say is that it kept me awake while driving to an agility trial and home. I didn't find the characters interesting and I couldn't have cared less about the story. I truly enjoy most of Grafton's work, but this one was less than inspiring, and it was the second crappy Grafton book in a row :-(
3.5 out of 5 stars. I enjoyed the storyline, but I had trouble keeping the large cast of minor characters straight. On to J!
It's the 1980s and Kinsey Millhone is a private detective in Santa Teresa, CA, in her thirties.
Isabelle's first husband, Kenneth Voigt, is suing David in the civil courts to secure the fortune for his and Isabelle's daughter, Shelby, and has hired Lonnie as his lawyer.
After Morley, Lonnie's private detective, passes away suddenly, Lonnie hires Kinsey to continue with the investigation.
Kinsey discovers that David has an alibi and everything he says seems to be true.
As a head's up, there is swearing.This is the ninth in the "alphabet series" featuring Kinsey Millhone.
I discovered this series in the mid-1990s and have read them all.
Another cracking installment in the Kinsey Millhone series. The mystery in this is twisty and dark - but the side characters in Kinsey's personal life help lift it so it's not a miserable read. I went straight on to the next one!
This wasn’t one of her best. The case is not as interesting as other cases she had. But it is a usual staple when you like to read mysteries.
Another great Kinsey story. Lots of twists and surprises. Kinsey's troubles keep getting more serious and the same with her injuries.
Sue Grafton never disappoints in her Kinsey Millhone books. Always interesting, witty and intriguing. I was unsure about who dun it all the way until the end. A good read and perfect for summer at the beach.
