https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32324273-the-stars-are-fire
I listened to this on audible and enjoyed the narrator, Suzanne Elite Freeman.May contain a mild spoiler...The main character, Grace Holland, is suffering with a less than mediocre marriage with little to no attention from her husband, Gene.
As time moves on, Grace's husband is still missing and she must make a new life to care for her kids.
She moves into her mother-in-laws house and finds some belongings to help get her feet on the ground and enjoys a new found job.
It's possible the main issue with the book for me were the characters.
I always look forward to novels by this author, and this time it has felt like a very long wait.
Grace, the young wife and mother in this story is no exception.
Parts of this novel were predictable but the history and the time period made this much more than just a predictable read.
A sentimental read on my part but I find that it is refreshing to read a novel that is set in only one time period and that doesn't go back and forth, just presented as we live life, in a forward manner.
Grace Holland is in an unhappy marriage, the mother of two small children, with another one on the way, when her husband, Gene, volunteers to help fight the fire.
I really enjoyed the history, the writing, and the deep character study, and how the tragedy of the fire, ultimately provided a way for Grace to experience freedom and forge a new life for herself.
This may be our last novel by Anita Shreve, and if that is the case, I’d say she left us with a very positive impression of her and her books.
I started off giving The Stars are Fire 4 stars, however while writing my review I realized that there was a few things that were missing for me or did not really work for me.When we first meet Grace Holland she is in a dutiful and loveless marriage to sour Gene who is a man of few words.
I found myself rooting for Grace as she discovers new freedom and finds joy in her life.All the other characters all seemed like an uninteresting “type” to me with no depth or development.
I was excited to read it so I had to jump ahead even though the pub date isn’t until May.This is by far the best book that Ms. Shreve has ever penned.
The town where Grace lives is at first thought to be far enough away from the fire and isn’t evacuated.
Well you can try if you want to but it's a great REVEAL.I read this book in two sittings, only because I had to go to bed.
I recommend this book to everyone, read it, you won’t be disappointed.
I haven’t read anything by Anita Shreve in a long time.
Grace is in an unhappy, controlling marriage with two toddlers and one on the way.
A fire breaks out and Gene, her husband, volunteers to help in the effort to get it under control.
Grace is just that and determined.When Gene doesn’t return she is left with no money and no place to live after the fire took her home.
Along the way she makes valuable friendships and just when she has a comfortable living arrangement, Gene comes back.
I will look forward to the next novel by Shreve.
Oh dear. I'm afraid I'm just the wrong audience for this book. After a strong beginning, it devolved into just another romantic fairy tale. Its strengths lay in the depiction of the devastating coastal fires that ravaged a drought-ridden Maine in 1947. Despite some glaring anachronisms, the era is well represented, and Grace is truly a woman of that age. There were several jarring mistakes in what followed, and half way in, I found myself skimming over too much attention to clothes and not enough to character.
This one started off slowly and it took a little while for me to engage with it, but then suddenly I found myself in that wonderful state of being so involved I did not even notice when people were talking to me.
Grace is a superb character, someone who lives within the narrow confines of her life until circumstances demand that she step up and step up she does!
The scene where she saves her children's lives by holding them in the sea as a huge wildfire burns down the town is amazing, as is the way she builds herself back up after the fire.
I found myself longing for her to succeed and find herself the life she deserved.
You can read all of my reviews at Lit·Wit·Wine·Dine.Having never read any of Anita Shreve's earlier novels, I was drawn to The Stars are Fire because I enjoy learning about historical events I know little or nothing about.
This events in this book unfold as a result of what has become know as the Great Fires of 1947, a series of forest fires that devastated hundreds of thousands of acres in Maine.Grace Holland is five months pregnant when the fires rip through her neighborhood, destroying everything in their wake.
Finally, homeless and destitute, Grace is forced to consider moving into her recently deceased mother-in-law's home.
Man, I didn't realize how much I have missed Anita Shreve until I started this book this morning and finished it tonight.
It is that good.
Everyone Grace knows is affected by the fires, by the huge losses, and by the kindness of strangers.
Her husband is missing and it gives her time to consider a different kind of future for herself and her children.Wonderful female characters make up most of the cast -- women you just want to cheer on or give them a hug.
I wasn’t moved!I had intended to write a huge spoiler ridden rant about the “convenience” of the plot but I hate spoilers in reviews so here is a condensed version.Every event that happened throughout the story, even though at the time some seemed like great hardship, turned out to be very convenient to the storyline and so far removed from real life it just lost all credibility for me.
The ending was too well tied up as though the author didn’t want to disappoint anyone.I finished the book thinking I would still be happy to give Shreve another go as her writing is moving even if the story wasn’t.
The story is based on the true story of the 1947 fire that burned a significant portion of Maine’s coastal towns.
As the book opens, Grace and her family live in a small coastal town that is in the midst of a drought.
The world could use more people like Grace.My favorite thing by far about this book is Shreve’s prose.
Shreve provides a fascinating window into Grace’s mind; Grace is constantly wanting to know more than she learns from the news and her neighbors and frequently questioning why things are the way they are.
With this as backdrop, Anita Shreve has crafted her story of Grace Holland, a wife and mother of two, caught up in the fires and spat out to reinvent herself in the aftermath.
Before the fires, Grace was a typical woman of her times, rearing her children in a tiny cottage, cooking and washing for her husband in a loveless marriage.
After the horrendous day of the fire when Grace and Rosie were forced to take their children into the ocean to survive, Grace waits for her husband to return from fire fighting and wonders how they will cope now that they are homeless and penniless.Anita Shreve has painted Grace as a fierce survivor, a women who will adapt and cope with whatever adversity life throws in her way to keep her children safe.
★★★In The Stars Are Fire, Anita Shreve writes with a simple and minimal style but surprisingly succeeds at developing characters, a historical time period, a traumatizing setting, and a variety of relationships. This story follows the female lead character: Grace while life leads her through several situations and relationships that occur before, during, but mostly after a horrific state-wide fire. Some are happy and some severely unhappy, but the journey remains engaging through its entirety. I
★★★½In The Stars Are Fire, Anita Shreve writes with a simple and minimal style but surprisingly succeeds at developing characters, a historical time period, a traumatizing setting, and a variety of relationships.
This story follows the female lead character: Grace while life leads her through several situations and relationships that occur before, during, but mostly after a horrific state-wide fire.
I enjoyed watching Grace's resilience and growth in a time when women were not viewed as capable or independent apart from their husband.
My favorite quote:"You have to stay," her mother says calmly."Why?""You're married.
"I didn't make this bed," Graces says.
A five star book of engaging historical fiction.
Shreve transports us to coastal Maine in 1947 where we meet Grace, a mother of two and married to Gene.
Her best friend Rosie lives next door with her two children and husband Tim. All summer there has been a drought and now wildfires are raging across the state.
Grace and Rosie’s husbands have gone to fight the fire and left the women and children at home.
Grace is a character of deep emotions and resilience.
In the beginning of the book she is very meek and quiet.
Rosie is another favorite character of mine.
Her characters are so compelling.The story is set up against the historic 1947 wildfires that ravaged the coast of Maine.
As I was reading, hurricanes Hugo and Irma, catastrophic Asian monsoons, an 8.1 earthquake in Mexico, and record setting heat waves and wildfires following years of drought in California and other states as well as Canada were all in the news.
The general plot and outcome has a been there—read that framework but Grace’s character and Shreve’s talented writing made for such pleasurable reading.
This was a group buddy read and I’m looking forward to further discussion later this month as we all catch up.
This is the story of a woman not only surviving but prospering.
Due to a fast moving wild fire following a drought in Maine in 1947, many towns and cities were totally wiped out.
Grace, pregnant, is alone with her two children to make her way to safety, her husband Gene has left to fight the fires.
Grace takes control and makes decisions that are best for her, her children and her Mother, who also survived the fire.
It follows the ups and downs of both marriage and life in general; the deepest of valleys and brightest of days, turmoil and peace.
There’s been a very long drought and Grace Holland and her best friend, Rosie, long for rain.
From what she hears from Rosie, Grace knows that her marriage bed is not what it should be.
A violent night with her husband leaves her pregnant with her third child.
The fires wreak havoc upon the homes and lives of Grace and Rosie.
But Grace’s tragedy doesn’t end the day of the fires.
I was glued to each page of this book and had no idea what was going on around me while I was reading it.
But in real life, far more dangerous.She's also captures here an authentic maturing of identity that centered much of the feminine journey through the 2nd half of the last century.
An absence of context that in myriad ways is not translatable as overt actions and vicious words could more easily capture.
She captured both the Gene before and after superbly.
Would we all have had such luck after life changing disaster to find such worth replenished.
But all of that is forgiven for the "mother thought" and the growth Anita Shreve completely captured in this woman's story of refusing to be used.
Book reviews on www.snazzybooks.com The Stars Are Fire is a wonderfully written, touching story of life during the post-war 1940's, and how traumatic events can either make or break someone.I really liked the main character, Grace, who is a strong and likeable woman.
Grace is such a great character and I really enjoyed reading about her, willing her to stand up to her husband.The story is not action-packed; I'd describe it as a bit of a slow burner but without leaving me feeling bored or uninterested.
The Star are fire did not set my interest on fire.Grace Hollond is living a less than exciting life in Maine during 1947.
The area has seen a drought and everything is dry and burns out of control.During the fire, Grace is helpless to save her home.
Both women are now homeless, do not know the location of their husbands, if their spouses are even alive and where they will go from here.Grace eventually goes to her deceased Mother in law's home where she finds a new freedom.
Her happiness is dashed when her controlling husband is back home.
This was my first Anita Shreve book and my can she write: the story moves along seamlessly like liquid gold.
I don't want to give the plot away because i read a review for this book when mid way through and hit a spoiler which gave away the second half of the book.
Anita Shreve has created a truly likeable character in Grace, she is well written: I felt her misery and her joy.
My only criticism is that the second half of the book and run up to the ending was quick.
I must say that one of the best experiences when reading a book is the sensory aspects.
This book has AMAZING artistry on the cover and the page stock is that perfect stiff thickness, just below a cardstock that makes reading and holding the book a treat!
This was definitely a total sensory experience and for me, that makes book reading and reviewing all the more magnificent.
You know, from one of those week long rains that feel like it will never go away?
Her life feels like rain.
For Grace, when fire comes to her small coastal town in Maine, it destroys everything in its path.
She relies on her close friend Rosie and her widowed mother for support and companionship.
As a women of her times, Grace must rely on her husband, Gene to support their family and to drive her to appointments and for weekly shopping.
Gene is off fighting the fires, and Grace must save her children and help Rosie and her small children.
Grace suffers great loss due to the fire, and must find the strength, resilience and courage to care for her family.
The story is centered around Grace, a young woman in her early 20s, wife of Gene and mother of two young children under the age of 2.
However, that doesn't stop her, she's got two little children to take care of.Gene is missing and Grace moves in her deceased mother-in-laws house.
What I loved the most is how Grace transforms, how she grows from the gullible 23 year old to strong, confident woman making some excellent choices.The book delivers so many great messages, like the importance of understanding in a marriage, the need to rely on each other in times of a disaster or how one grows in most difficult of times.
Grace Holland was unhappy with her life in small Maine village, with an abusive and controlling husband and two small children.
The Stars Are Fire is the first book I have read by Anita Shreve, and I did not engage with the story.
Anita Shreve did highlight the resilience of Grace to change her life after the fire.
I do not think that Anita Shreve highlights this issue very well in The Stars Are Fire.
Also, The Stars Are Fire highlights the dangers that bush fires have on a community, and we should be more careful in the summer months.I will not recommend this book.
Anita Shreve has done it again, giving us an absorbing story that I would have finished in one night but decided that sleep needed to become a priority.The setting is Maine, during the late 40's when Grace Holland, a young mother in a loveless marriage, tries to rescue her two young children when a huge forest fire breaks out.
As she develops a inner strength from taking care of the family and trying to support herself, circumstances arise that turn the novel on its head.
The novel's descriptive setting with Shreve's signature crisp style, transported me in time while simultaneously made me ache with both loneliness and delight for Grace.
There are some authors that I always know I will enjoy reading, and Anita Shreve has been one of those for me for a long, long time.
Amid all this loss, Grace finds herself, and finds a kind of strength of character that she would never have suspected she possessed.This novel was pure pleasure to read, because Anita Shreve knows how to write in a way that makes you feel you are in this woman’s skin and experiencing her travails right along with her.
If you have ever felt trapped by life or imprisoned by a situation you cannot control, you will relate to Grace and feel the pressure she is under.
This was one of the best books I have read this year! It’s got it all, adventure, love, suspense, passion. The heroine of this book is amazing and brave! A horrible fire takes her whole village and maybe her life and the lives of her husband and children. There are some very sad heartbreaking moments but also moments that you see great bravery and human will to overcome. Must read!
Things pick up, things get worse and there will be a happy ending of sorts.I loved Anita Shreve’s earlier books, ‘The Pilot’s Wife’ being a particular favourite.
Secondly, how did Gene manage to remain unidentified in a coma for three weeks even though the police were trying to find him, and he was the only person unaccounted for after fire?If you have not read any Anita Shreve, or have not reached saturation point, then you will enjoy this tale of hardship, misery and eventual happiness.
If you have read a few too many of her books I would suggest that going back is never a good idea!
