https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1138948.Aniara
I actually bought an English translation, second hand but very expensive, because I thought I could read excerpts from it with my students, but in the end, Martinson's language was so much connected to Swedish in my mind that I did not go ahead with the project.Of all the Nobel Prizes in Literature, the one awarded to Martinson and Johnson in 1974 is probably the most disputed.
The world is still developing in a direction where power to destroy is given to people with no sense of love and responsibility for the beautiful nature of our shared planet and our common cultural heritage.Aniara is a cautionary tale, holding up the mirror of regret when it is too late: don't travel straight ahead without purpose!Noble Nobel Martinson!
i came across this author, while digging into past nobel prize winners and seeing that martinson (along with another member of the swedish academy - yeah that's the group that decides who wins the award) was given the nobel prize over that years favorites: graham greene, vladimir nabokov, and saul bellow.
i couldn't find much on eyvind johnson (the other winner), so i decided to take a shot on this harry martinson.
i'll offer more thoughts upon completion, but i couldn't wait and had to share this spectacular, and unique work of art.so this is a wonderful, little piece of art that seems sadly overlooked in world literature.
they played a game of chess with infinity.I don't know where to start with this review, so I'll just leave that quote up there and say my goal is to learn Swedish so I can get a copy in the original language and read it again. In Swedish. Did I mention Swedish?This poem is amazing.
Un viaje terrible en el que en todo momento cargamos con el atroz conocimiento de que vamos hacia una muerte vacía de significado (una idea que Thomas Ligotti emplea y amplía en su "La conspiración contra la raza humana"), y con la convicción de que lo malo que ocurre en el mundo es culpa nuestra.Me ha gustado mucho como Martinson, un poeta que nada tiene que ver con el género, emplea metáforas de ciencia ficción para hablar de estos temas en un poema épico futurista y moderno; la nave espacial, la guerra nuclear, la colonización de planetas, el vacío estelar...
Dans le monde réel le problème est toujours très actuelle même s'il a plus au moins disparu de la littérature.Le poème raconte l'histoire du vaisseau spatial "Aniara" et ses 8000 passagers qui quittent la Terre, rendue inhabitable par la guerre nucléaire, afin de s'installer sur la planète Mars.
Dans les quatre ans qui ont suivi, on a monté l'opéra dans une douzaine de villes à l'étranger.
Comme démontre la confrontation et entre le Corée du Nord et les États-Unis la possibilité d'une guerre nucléaire est aussi forte qu'à l'époque ou Martinson a écrit son poème épique.
Personalmente, he tardado en aclimatarme a ese proceso, pero una vez asimilado, la lectura se ha convertido para mí en una auténtica delicia, un proceso de navegación tan armónico que la primera palabra que acude a mi mente para calificarlo es "música".El relato describe la singladura de una gigantesca nave espacial perdida en el espacio, con rumbo fijo entre la Tierra y la constelación de Lira.
Esto no es una novela, es un canto, una melodía que invade la mente con imágenes hermosas.
All of humanity being shipped out on spaceships - each one just making a routine trip, just on a much grander scale.
Her steering gets knocked out, her SOSs go unanswered, her AI kills itself after it sees Earth be destroyed in a nuclear holocaust, and the Aniara and her thousands of passengers are sent hurling on a 15,000 year journey towards Vega, with only their memories for company.
Myself I questioned, but gave no reply.I dreamt myself a life, then lived a lie.I ranged the universe but passed it by -For captive on Aniara here was I.This book is 50 years old this year.
Ombord på skeppet Aniara går allting utför, hoppet sinar, och människans tillit till teknologi och drömmar skildras, och allt är sååå otroligt vackert, finurligt och samtidigt väldigt mörkt.Det finnes skydd mot nästan allt som är 	mot eld och skador genom storm och köld 	ja, räkna upp vad slag som tänkas kan.
Men det finns inget skydd mot människan.
Allt är (som jag så ofta finner i poesi) inte glasklart eller självklart, men allt är tänkvärt och följer ändå en slags story.
Därav tror jag att även den som inte är så bekant med poesi skulle gilla denna.
Den här texten må vara upptakten till Martinssons Nobelpris, men det förändrar. Ingenting. Det här var verkligen inte min grej alls. Poesin gick mig helt över huvudet. Kändes helt slumpmässig då den inte håller någon fast form utan byts från kapitel till kapitel. Jag är nog inte tillräckligt smart för det där.
A questo si aggiunge il fatto che il linguaggio è volutamente nonsense, si utilizzano termini ed immagini dal sapore fantascientifico, parole inventate che non vengono mai spiegate che, assieme alla generale struttura frammentata, rendono la prosecuzione nella lettura davvero complessa e poco scorrevole.
Come dicevo, potrebbe essere un mio limite nella mancata interpretazione del verso poetico, ma penso che molto sia anche dovuto al carattere episodico e confusionario della narrazione, che poco è riuscita a lasciarmi in questo senso fantascientifico/epico che aspettavo.
It's an odd, thoroughly unique classic (though sadly, it is currently out of print and very expensive).My favorite poem of this book is Poem 85:"The galaxy swings roundlike a wheel of shimmering smokewhich is the light of stars,or sun haze.For lack of other words, you know,we call it sun haze.I mean just that languages do not sufficeto express everythingcontained in that spectacle.The richest of the languages we know,Xinombric, has some three million words,but the galaxy you are watching nowcontains far more than ninety billion suns.Has any human brain ever mastered all the wordsof the language of Xinombra?Not a single one!Now do you understand?And yet--do you?Analysis: The co-win in 1974 of Harry Martinson and Eyvind Johnson was considered controversial at the time, because both were members of the selection committee and both were pretty much unknown writers.
They are peculiar and unafraid of standing out, sharp and clever, and always with critique hidden between the lines.
They remind me that, from the start, the "science" in science-fiction refers not so much to spaceships and hovercrafts as it does social science.Aniara by Harry Martinsson is an excellent example of this.
It is very peculiar and haunting, with sharp critique against weapons of mass destruction, and the environmental changes humans are inflicting on the earth.
He was, on the other hand, one hell of a poet.
Tiene mucho mérito dedicar un poema épico, en plan Mio Cid, al viaje estelar de una nave espacial (llamada goldondra, que supongo que es el modelo de nave) perdida en el universo camino de alguna parte.
Pero este poema opta por la oscuridad.
Pero Harry, majo: ¿de verdad una nave generación intergaláctica que no tiene un sistema para cambiar de dirección?
Entiendo que es un poema y no se le puede exigir la claridad y la estructura de una novela, pero no he podido disfrutar más que algunos momentos concretos de inspiración del autor.
This year, it has been 40 years since the Swedish Author Harry Martinson died.
As a member of the Swedish Academy he had awarded himself with the Literature Prize, and for this he was violently critizised by both the newspapers and fellow authors.
Juicy scandals then, juicy scandals today.Today Harry Martinson is mostly remembered for his epic space poem Aniara from 1956.
8,000 people are travelling to Mars on the space ship Aniara.
However the ship is knocked out of course, and heads into deep space with no chance of returning.Life goes on, but people will never be the same.
After being thrown off course its 8,000 souls are left to live what remains of their lives in a vast spaceship hurtling into the unknown emptiness of space, with no hope of ever returning to Earth.This epic poem is everything a work of science fiction should be, providing a fantastic situation that nevertheless resonates with us, and using that situation to explore mankind.
Being trapped on Aniara renders life meaningless for all the passengers on board- if they make scientific discoveries they can’t send them back to Earth so no use will ever come of them, they can write poems and songs but they will be trapped within the confines of the ship, and everyone knows that eventually Aniara will reach its limits on this unending journey and everyone aboard her will die.
هناك جماليات كثيرة في هذه الملحمة الرمزية ، ولكن جزء كبير منه تظلمه الترجمة الى لغة اخرى ، هناك مقاط
Suelo ser muy cabal con lo que leo y cuando hablo de un libro procuro no apoyarme en elementos poco tangibles; intento analizar cuidadosamente qué es lo que funciona y lo que no (hasta dónde soy capaz de llegar).
Pero con Aniara me ocurre que no puedo decirlo claramente.
De hecho, ni siquiera he sido capaz de entender exactamente qué estaba leyendo mientras lo hacía ni porqué me atraía tanto si a la vez era consciente de que no entendía ni la mitad de lo que Martinson quería transmitir con este poema épico de ciencia-ficción.
Vamos, que Aniara es el claro ejemplo de literatura con la que uno debe dejarse llevar y punto.
I loved loved this book. There was something absolutely special about it. I couldn't really describe the content (which is kind of a plot written in a poetic way kind of just connected poems or something along those lines) if I was asked to but it made me feel. Even though it is hard to understand and paradoxal and slightly odd at times, I really got a feeling for it. It was relatable in an existential way and I was left with a feeling of wonder. Hard to explain but I definitely recommend it.
Ju längre in jag kom i boken, desto mer obegripligt kändes det att min hemkommun valt att döpa ett torg till Aniaraplatsen. Nog för att jag ofta känt att allt är hopplöst och på väg åt helvette när jag varit där, men det handlar nog mer om mitt tonårsjag än om platsen i sig. Hur som helst är boken väldigt vacker, och jag tycker att alla borde läsa den. Speciellt de som är ansvariga för platsnamn i Sollentuna kommun
In any glass	that stands untouched for a sufficient time	gradually a bubble in the glass will move	infinitely slowly to a different point	in the body of glass, and in a thousand years	the bubble makes a journey in its glass.Martinson's Nobel Prize was awarded “for writings that catch the dewdrop and reflect the cosmos”, and this is certainly an apt description when considering a book like Aniara.It's a very emotional piece of work, full of love, loss and regret, and teeming with symbolism and metaphor it evokes the epics of great old world mythologies while remaining eminently timely, and even timeless (the threat of a planet dying in the wake of its thirty-second world war).
Wonderfully melancholic and at times painfully tragic, reading Harry Martinson's sci-fi poem (here in the original Swedish) is a great but uneven experience.
Some parts are excellent, but at other times the text feels confusing and contrived.
I'm also not crazy about Martinson's way of using invented words (this is not a principled objection, it just didn't work that well for me here).
I will probably give it another shot in a year or so, however, as I got the feeling it will improve on a second reading.
Oh, how I wish I could understand the original Swedish version! Hats off to the translators - I can imagine the amount of research and foreign language skills needed to achieve a decent version of this for international readers. What a grand idea, a science fiction poem! Poetry in and about space, the tragic flaw of the main character (our species) shut in a capsule and shot into cosmic dimensions. It's unbelievable this gem is out of print and I was lucky to find a second hand copy from some obscure internet seller.
Kind of disappointing. Stanza by stanza, most of it is really great poetry. But like some other modern literature, it's unnecessarily hard to understand and often doesn't make clear what is metaphor and what is literally happening.The book is organized as a succession of short poems about the people living on a spaceship that is drifting away from the solar system after being disabled by an accident. The main theme is to contrast their longing for Earth with the horror of their memories of the nuclear wars and so forth that are going on there.
Aniara känns arkaisk, omständlig och perfekt om man vill ta kål på läsintresset hos en tonåring. Om man älskar poesi och domedagsprofetior får den nog ett högre betyg.
En av mina absoluta favoritböcker. Så vackert. Stressade dock igenom den denna gång, men vet att jag kommer läsa den igen.
One of my favorite books ever. A swedish poetic dystopian sci-fi :-D
There also are the sorts of failure-to-convince of early science fiction – the Aniara's disaster does not seem to make physical sense –, confusing construct words (these would perhaps make more sense to the Swedish reader), and dated social commentary.And here is poem number 85: The galaxy swings around   like a wheel of lighted smoke,   and the smoke is made of stars.
The richest of the languages we know,   Xinombric, has three million words,   but then the galaxy you're gazing into right now   has more than ninety billion suns.
Has there ever been a brain that mastered all the words   in the Xinombric language?
This is verse that makes the hair on my skin stand on end, both due to its linguistic beauty and its message. I am often sad about missing out on poetry in its original language, but wow, I am glad to be able to read Aniara in my native tongue. It's always a mighty experience.
Un libro que debería de formar parte de la lectura obligatoria en todos los institutos pues cuenta de manera magistral y poética la exploración sin fronteras del universo.Puede parecer denso a primera vista pero se le de un tirón y con muchas ganas de que no acabe cuando te sumerges en él.
Lite förundrad att jag inte hade hört talas om den tidigare, rent tematiskt helt min stil, och utförandet är strålande
