https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32505.The_Closers
They are to be "The Closers," resolving cold cases that, for one reason or another, haven't ever been cleared.On his first day back, Harry and Kiz are handed the case of a sixteen-year-old girl who was taken from her house seventeen years ago and shot to death.
Harry is determined to give them the justice that has eluded them for so long.The DNA evidence gives Harry and Kiz a good head start on finally solving the murder.
Another enjoyable outing with Harry Bosch - 400 and something pages just zoomed past:)This book was a little slower than some of the earlier ones but I always enjoy police procedurals so it was okay with me.
Harry seemed a little more mellow.
He tried harder to work as part of a team and apologised nicely to Rider when he failed.
I enjoyed the fact that he had the support of his immediate bosses.
I find lately that too many books in this genre have the poor MC fighting to deal with an incapable boss at the same time as working his cases.
Harry Bosch is back with the LAPD, this time with the Open-Unsolved Unit, a new division responsible for closing cold cases.
It should come as no surprise that Harry and Kiz end up opening the proverbial Pandora's box involving old police department politics.
The ending was so delicious and I NEVER saw one aspect of it coming but it was brilliant.
Can you tell I loved this book?Here's hoping Bosch continues to have a future with the LAPD, especially in this new unit under competent leadership for a change and with a great partner.
Connelly Back To His Old SelfBosch and Connelly are back in top form in the Closers.
Harry is back on the force and Connelly is back to writing Bosch in closely held third person point of view.
For me, the point of view impacts the experience of Bosch considerably.
For several novels now, Harry has been retired from the Police force and also written in the first person by Connelly.
In The Closers, Harry is written in third person and I'm back to idealizing his inner monologue.
If you like Bosch, you will like the Closers.
His first case is about the murder of a biracial teenager seventeen years ago.
The case has been reopened because the DNA found on the murder weapon has now been analyzed and a match has been found.
Harry and his partner, Kizman Rider, start weeding through the evidence, trying to put the pieces together.It's nice to see Harry back with the police department again.
He's trying very hard to be a team player and not cut his partner out of the investigation as he has done in the past.
He has a new boss that seems to believe in his investigators and works well with them.
After reading Julia Keller's review of Michael Connelly's most recent novel I decided to try one of his earlier works, The Closers, featuring Detective Harry Bosch.I was not disappointed as the novel was tightly woven, suspenseful story of crime and detection.
In it Detective Harry Bosch is brought out of retirement by a new chief of police and assigned to a new division called "Open-Unsolved"; basically a 'cold case' division that is known as "The Closers".
The change in the science of detection with the advent of DNA and its' resulting ubiquity is also an important factor in the story.
This case is reopened since DNA evidence is now available.
(hide spoiler)] & the new police chief is great.
(hide spoiler)]The next in line is the title story from Angle of Investigation #15.5 in my reading order which can be found in my review of the first book in the series The Black Echo here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...which lists all of Connelly's books & short stories in the correct chronology for reading.
Connelly ties several of his series together with character crossovers that can include spoilers.
Working on the cold case unit, Bosch and his partner, Kiz Rider, are tasked with finding out who murdered a teenage girl 17 years beforehand.
Quite a monumental task you would think, but advances in technology and policing means it's worth another crack when a hit on a blood sample links this case to some new information.What could be seen as a slow, procedural style book still manages to have plenty of intrigue and tense moments.
Connelly is able to create a great read even when most of the book is digging out leads and staking out potential suspects.
Ending: Not exciting, but positive.THE SERIES:I recommend reading the Harry Bosch books in order, but it would be ok to try “The Last Coyote” or “Lost Light” first just to see if you like the style.
Following is my recommended reading order.3 stars.
Blood Work (McCaleb series #1) Bosch is not in this.3 ½ stars.
A Darkness More Than Night (McCaleb series #2) McCaleb is the primary investigator, but he interacts with Bosch.3 ½ stars.
Read this any time before “The Narrows.”4 stars.
The Narrows (sequel to The Poet) Bosch is the main investigator.3 stars.
It's been awhile since I read a Connelly book. What took me so long to come back to this series? I love Harry Bosch! Great story, excellent characters and a nice twist at the end. Welcome back in to my life Mr. Connelly!
The case takes an unexpected turn when the evidence suggests a connection to white supremacists and the possibility that the LAPD, specifically Bosch's nemesis, Chief Irving, may have been involved in a cover up.
The Closers is one of Connelly's better installments in the Harry Bosch series as the writing is succinct, the plotting cohesive and the characterization unburdened by the excessive personal angst that bogs down some of the other stories.
Although the department politics takes a back seat to the mystery, there are still some interesting developments and there is one particularly satisfying scene when Chief Irving seems to get his just desserts.
Another super read in the Harry Bosch series as he continues his mission in life. About the time I reached the final third of the book, all other activities went out the window. Nothing could be done until the book was finished.
Is it me or is Harry Bosch's series turning into a police procedural genre?
The only police procedural book that I know of is Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series.
I hate to put down this series but I do know it will be a number of months before I pick up #12 in the series.
A new Mickey Haller is out next month, I think, and I may have to break down and pick up a hardback.
Mickey's the reason I began reading Harry anyway, so I'm excited.
Wish I could be as excited about this book.
5 stars. Another awesome installment in this series. Harry Bosch is awesome and a lot happened in this book! Wow... wow... wow. I loved it and can't wait for the next book.
One understands how it will go, but that’s more than ok; it’s a relief and a pleasure.
In this novel, Michael Connelly tries to reinvent his character Harry Bosch by having him return to the unsolved crimes division after having retired from the LAPD, finding out that his life isn’t the same after leaving the police force.
When Bosch begins to dig into the case, he finds many things that don’t add up, including links to hate crimes.
Bosch has to fight the things that made him quit the force in order to solve the case.Closers is a solid if unspectacular crime fiction novel.
Although the case at hand is moderately interesting, the mystery component feels a little lacking.
We have Harry reunited with Kiz and now they are both working in the Open/Unsolved Unit in the LAPD (think Cold Case).
Kiz pulled some strings and got Harry back with her and now the former partners are teaming up to figure out who was behind the murder of a young 17 year old girl in 1988.
I get a sense that throughout the book Bosch is haunted that something can happen to his daughter Maddie, and it scares him a bit that he would end up as broken as the two parents are in the book.Secondary characters once again get a chance to shine throughout.
After three years of retirement, Harry Bosch has rejoined the LAPD in the newly formed cold cases unit.
Bosch also has the dubious but useful ability to generate lies on the spot in order to control the direction of the investigation.This particular case will have a long list of characters.
Bosch loved it for that.” (p.226)Connelly does not flinch from examining power struggles within the department, nor does he minimize the effect such struggles have on investigations.
Connelly also examines the idea that solving a case will bring closure for the families.
Every once in a while I check for updates on my state’s “Valentine Sally.” Yeah, I know I’m weird.) Well, in this book we know who the victim was but the crime was committed seventeen years before the book begins and there’s a total lack of suspects and only a few shot-in-the-dark guesses as to what the motive was.
In a lot of ways Rider is a better partner for Bosch because she is more like Bosch--nothing matters but resolving the case.So yeah, you can always rely on Connelly to write a really good mystery.
Bosch knew the dawn had nothing on the dusk.
The dusk was smoother, the moon more graceful.
Bosch is paired with former partner, Kiz Rider in the Open/Unsolved cases unit applying new techniques to old evidence.
But before he can get started on the case Bosch is needled by Deputy Chief Irvin Irving, who has ben sidelined by the new administration.The novel is in three parts, and starts at a gentle pace, focussing on details from the original investigation, the detectives assigned at that time, the girl’s parents (both locked in grief and now separated), suspects and her immediate friends/boyfriend.
I've never been in the police and fortunately haven't had to have many dealings with the law, but Mr. Connelly seems to know what he's writing about."The Closers" is one of his books featuring Harry Bosch, who has just come out of retirement to join the LA police again.
He is assigned to a squad that reopens old murder cases as new evidence comes to light, such as DNA.
Right away Bosch and his partner can see that things aren't going to be straightforward as the new suspect's criminal history doesn't fit with the murder.
His mission: solve murders whose investigations were flawed, stalled, or abandoned to L.A.'s tides of crime.
With some people openly rooting for his failure, Harry catches the case of a teenager dragged off to her death on Oat Mountain, and traces the DNA on the murder weapon to a small-time criminal.
But something bigger and darker beckons, and Harry must battle to fit all the pieces together.
Sometimes, a piece of testost-tosh is just what is needed to clean the palate...4* The Black Echo2* The Brass VerdictCR The Closers3* A Darkness More Than Night2* The Overlook1* Void Moon3* Blood Work
THE CLOSERS (Police Procedural-Los Angeles-Cont) – VGConnelly, Michael – 15th bookLittle Brown, 2005 – HardcoverHarry Bosch has rejoined the police force after 3 year's retirement.
Now there's a break in the case thanks to advances in technology; a DNA match.*** It's nice to see Connelly back writing a very good police procedural, and to have Harry back on the Force.
The story deals with the technical side of post-9/11 police work as well as the emotional side of the impact of a crime on the survivors.
Add to that Connelly's well-done dialogue, sense of place, ability to create believable relationships, and good twists, and one is treated to a very good book.
What a nice change from the last book.
I love this author and I think I’m in love with Harry Bosch.
This book was signed “Harry is back on the beat and all is right in the world” by Michael Connelly when I met him at his book signing in Greensboro.
Harry IS back in the Open Unsolved department.
He is back with his partner Kit. Their first case is 17 years old.
It doesn’t take long for Harry to get back into his investigative mode.
This was one of those books I couldn’t put down until I finished.
There is a cameo appearance of old chief Irving and an interesting link to this case.
The Closers by Michael Connelly is the 11th book in the Harry Bosch series.Harry returns to the LAPD and is assigned to the open-unsolved cases unit with his old partner Kiz Rider.
They are assigned an old case from the 1980s involving the abduction and murder of a teenage girl.
This book moved a lot slower for me with Harry seeming to need to explain his thoughts and actions every step of the way.
Not as much action as usual but still plenty of twists.
Another great book as Harry evolves and returns to the police force.
This installment of Harry Bosch is one of the best ones I've come across.
I love a good murder mystery.
Harry is back with his badge after 3 years retirement, running with a cold case and with limited clues.
This particular one reminded me just how flawed our system can get.
Just because there is DNA doesn't always mean that person is a killer.
A young girl is stunned, swept away from her house, carried up a hill, shot and positioned to make it look like a suicide, and why?
Read this one, it'll be the most obvious but the clues will throw you off and on to a different path.
Love this series.
In this addition to the Harry Bosch series, Harry is called out of a 3 year retirement to work with his former partner, Kizmin Rider on the newly formed Open-Unsolved Squad of LAPD.
So Bosch and Rider begin from scratch to construct from bits and pieces of information who murdered the teenaged girl.What I particularly liked about The Closers was the focus on what homicide detectives use to help solve the cases they are given.
In this regard, Kizmin was certainly, as her name implies, the "rider" along for whatever clues Bosch flushes out of this case.
No one writes endings to mysteries like Michael Connelly does.
RATING: 4.5PROTAGONIST: Harry BoschSETTING: Los AngelesSERIES: #11 of 18RATING: 4.5WHY: After 3 years of retirement, Harry Bosch has returned to the LAPD as a detective in the Open/Unsolved (cold case) department, with Kiz Rider as his partner.
Their first case involves the murder of a teenage girl 17 years earlier.
It's a different kind of investigation for Harry, and he sometimes struggles with how to conduct it.
Finding links that suggest interference by the LAPD of the time doesn't help, and he also finds himself under the eagle eye of former Chief Irving, who he detests.
As I say after nearly every Michael Connelly novel that I read, no crime author does it better than him.
Given a cold case of a murder from 17 years ago, he is again partnered up with Kiz Rider on what is once again a politically fuelled and emotional journey for my favourite detective ever.I just could never tire reading about Bosch.
Something you read in a previous novel might not have held much relevance until this one and that’s why this series is so enjoyable.
Overall another immensely enjoyable story from Connelly with a satisfying resolution.
