https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2475251.The_Cellist_of_Sarajevo
Few books have ever moved me to tears. Sure, I get sad every once in a while when reading a story, but hardly ever do I feel like crying after a novel. THE CELLIST OF SARAJEVO made me cry. Not face trembling, snot pouring from the nose type of crying, rather, the tears that came from completion of this novel were from a deep sadness I rarely experience. But before getting to my crying episode, let me first share a few things that I found amazing with this book:1) It was written by Steve Galloway
But before getting to my crying episode, let me first share a few things that I found amazing with this book:1)	It was written by Steve Galloway, a Canadian, who has no ties with the people or the city of Sarajevo 2)	This story is based on the real life event of Vedran Smailovic, a cellist who played for 22 days as snipers fought each other in the buildings surrounding him3)	Even the people that do not have major roles in the novel are given a voice through the actions, inactions, emotions, and thoughts of the ones that are actively described and followed, which gives this book a Dickensian quality that I admire and appreciate because the novel is only 235 pages long4)	The simple fact that this story was told at all…history has had a funny way of forgetting this part of the world.The story opens in a war-torn part of Sarajevo.
Steven Galloway isn’t Bosnian, or a journalist, and he didn’t survive the siege of Sarajevo.
There’s Arrow, a female sniper caught up in a soldier’s world; Dragan, an elderly man trapped in the streets on his way to work; and Kenan, a young father facing death every few days to get clean water for his family.
This isn’t the first book I’ve read about Bosnia and it may not even be the best I’ve read, but today, right now, it haunts me.
The third character is a female sniper watching and protecting the Cellist from the surrounding buildings of rubble.In a besieged city the objective is to drive to submission the defending people, to destroy all hope, to condemn people to absolute debilitating fear for their lives.
There are those that need to remove this defiant symbol but our third character, the sniper Arrow, is drafted into making sure he remains alive, and kill any snipers on the other side.It is a deeply moving story that shows even in the most inhuman situations someone is prepared to risk everything to remind us that life is about living.
The Cellist of Sarajevo is a book where fact and fiction blend to tell a story of ordinary people and the terror of war.
Fiction Around this event the author imagines the lives of four characters and so we see everyday life through their eyes in a city torn apart by War.The book is well written and does draw the reader in and gives an insight into the hardships of the war what life was like for the people caught up in the conflict.
The third, Arrow, is a female sniper charged with protecting the cellist, who for twenty-two days will play in the Markale marketplace to commemorate the victims of a mortar attack.The triple, parallel narrative struction Galloway uses is a staple of contemporary fiction; five minutes in your local bookstore will suffice to find a novel featuring three unrelated characters whose stories are drawn together by some central event or symbol.
The contrivance appears in the timeline: while Dragan's and Kenan's stories cover a single day, Arrow's stretches over several days, but is presented in parallel.
I was skeptical of a book written about Sarajevo by someone who neither lived through the seige nor who is a Bosnian, but I was wrong.
The book is a lyrical song to a city l love very much.
Clearly, the author has done enormous research and spent time in the city with Sarajevans.
All that aside, what I love about this book is the deep empathy with the characters and with the city.
Something about living in these unspeakable conditions is understood by the writer and rendered here with beauty and remarkable empathy.
I plan to return to this book again.
A combination of history and historical fiction, The Cellist of Sarajevo is a harrowing portrait of a late 20th century civil war set in central Europe... And an excellent reading experience.further review to come...
This story is told through the eyes of three extraordinary people: a man who spends most of each day walking across the city to get water for his family and an ungrateful neighbor; another man who walks to his job at the bakery while dodging sniper bullets from the surrounding hills; and my favorite character Arrow, a young woman assassin-with-a-conscience who is assigned to keep the Cellist safe from sniper fire.This is just one month out of a war that lasted for years.
At one point he asked me if I knew anything about what had happened in his country.
I mean that’s not that long ago and it’s not like this happened in a third world country either, this was modern Europe.
You have to make it across the intersection to keep your family alive.These two men show us the city of Sarajevo as they walk through its remains and it very much becomes a character of its own here.
It was next to a cellist’s apartment building, and he decided to play for 22 days, in memory of the dead, one day for each victim.In a ruined city, where people are shot when crossing the street, this is a suicide attempt.
And there is a sniper watching him, and basically he can get shot at any moment.
It is a a world of danger, the author does a very good job explaining and showing that.
No food, no water, people are killed on the street, hate and destruction are everywhere, and the future looks as bad as the present.
I've read this a couple of times ---I never posted it on Goodreads? Shame on me! I thought everyone has read it! Its such a sad/sweet story. This small story can read it in a couple of hours --- Fresh air will pump through your body from the experience. When I saw that my GR's friend --(also friend & neighbor)-- is reading it now ---my heart warmed!

He suspects that what the world wants most is not to think of it all."I was in high school when the siege on Sarajevo began.
Why is it that it's always the worst moments that defines us?The Cellist of Sarajevo gives us a picture of four people stuck in Sarajevo during the siege.
One stuck for hours at an intersection targeted by a sniper as he tries to head to the bakery where he works for a meal.
The story would have been more powerful if one of the three died earlier in my opinion; however, given the structure, you knew that wasn't going to happen, because Galloway doesn't deviate from the 1-2-3 beat of the novel.
It was like Arrow, Dragan, and Kenan believed they cared the most about the music/Cellist therefore that is why they were spared.
Sure, in the end, we're left to wonder what happened to Arrow, but she was the least realistic character for me.
Arrow's existence in the novel seemed like a weak attempt to confuse the reader over who the real hero is - is it the Cellist?
During each character's story, they are influenced by a cellist who has vowed to take to the streets to play his Adagio for 22 days straight, in honor of 22 men who were mortared while standing in line for bread.There's some controversy surrounding this book: the cellist in the novel was inspired by a real man, Vedran Smailovic, who was all sorts of bent when he discovered a book had been written about him without his consent.
:)Below, the review, as previously written:Henceforward, when watching daily news clips from war-torn countries, I will think of the three main characters in this story, and what it must be like to live this reality on a day-to-day basis: utterly terrifying.
Steven Galloway’s sensitive, tragic, vivid portrayal of these characters living such a life is his gift to the reader.
While the cellist, never named, is central to the story, it is not based on the real-life cellist who apparently objects to this book!
In honor of the deceased, a local cellist who had witnessed the attack played Albinoni's Adagio in G Minor at the site daily for twenty-two days.
This fictional book is inspired by this true event in Sarajevo.The book also tells the stories of three other characters trying to survive the devastation.
Sarajevo is surrounded by hills, and the Serb soldiers shell the homes below, and target the civilians as they move through the city.
She is trying to hold on to her human goodness while defending her city.This moving story shows the senselessness of war, and the effect that violence, fear, and destruction has on each of the characters.
I remember hearing about this book and sorta deciding I just didn't want to read another book about another war, especially one that didn't really effect me.
Then I was on vacation in Punta Cana and had nothing left to read so I decided to check out the book-exchange in the condo complex.
Or maybe going insane to survive insanity.The fact that the author managed to make me understand what 400 other books about war, survival, siege and death did not is a statement to his brilliance.
The fact that he did not live this war is astounding.
A stark look at three lives affected by the siege on Sarajevo in the 1990's.
I think Galloway did a good job of showing what war does to ordinary citizens.
And I liked how Galloway showed that art is not a luxury or frivolity (hear that education systems of north america?) it is an integral part of what makes us human.I also like that we do not know much about the cellist at all.
The cellist's music is the thing that binds people (and the narrative) together, reminds them that they are human not "ghosts", and that you still need to live and be civil.
I've never lived in or through any situation even remotely like what is described, but reading this book makes these situations eerily real.The writing is incredible - Mr. Galloway is a genius of just the right phrase without showing off.
As with any classic piece of literature, it was that much better the second time around, and for this read-through I savored the words, language, phrasing, and sentences since I didn't feel compelled to race ahead to find out what happens.Note one thing while reading this book: The author never uses words like "Christian," "Muslim," "Serb," "Croat," "Bosnian," and others.
I noted in the author's acknowledgments those he thanked for helping him think like a Sarajevan and was touched that he allowed real voices to inform his work and speak through his characters.
These voices of the four characters, whose survival in a destroyed city is linked by the strings of a cello, resonate deeply in me.
I will be forever haunted by the image of the man who survived Nazi concentration camps and believed the world would never again allow genocide choosing suicide over being an innocent at war.
It is works like Galloway's that keep the voices of the survivors and of the lost in our hearts and intellect.
I would like to say to every one of them, read this book and then tell me that you would not choose to be a refugee rather than live in a war zone or city under siege.
The only ray of relief in the lives of the citizens is a cellist who enters the street every afternoon for 22 days to play the “Adagio in G Minor” by Albioni in honor of the 22 people who were killed on that street while standing in line for bread.
If you listen to this piece, I guarantee you will have heard it before.
I definitely was not aware that at the time, the Siege of Sarajevo was the longest city siege in the history of modern warfare, lasting almost four years.
This well written novel helps to visualize and understand what everyday citizens go through when a country or city is ravaged by war.
-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: He doesn't know what made her the way she is, but something has killed her, he can see now that she is a ghost as well.
She has been a ghost for a long time.
And to be a ghost while you're still alive is the worst thing he can imagine.
All wars are ugly but civil wars, neighbors killing neighbors, friends killing friends, are the ugliest.
The war in the city of Sarajevo is told from the point of view of the besieged; those souls who were unlucky enough to be caught in the crosshairs of "the men in the hills".
There is something about the stories of war that makes for compelling reading.
This is one of the best fictional accounts of war that I have read.
The cellist, who played each day at 4 P.M. in honour of people killed by the snipers, is not a fictional character.
War is despicably ugly.
Onvan : The Cellist of Sarajevo - Nevisande : Steven Galloway - ISBN : 1594489866 - ISBN13 : 9781594489860 - Dar 235 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2008
My favorite part of his story was when he met an old friend Emina at a very dangerous crossroad that he has to cross everyday in order to get to work, Emina came to this cross road in order to deliver a medication in hopes to help a patient whom she heard about from the radio.what happened there and what they saw was really touching.-Kenan a family man who's trying to provide for his wife and kids, and his struggles to get WATER not only for his family but for his rude neighbor Mrs. Ristovski as well- and my favorite character Arrow, a female counter-sniper, I have read many novel about wars, but never once it was narrated by a sniper, maybe because whenever we think of snipers we think of the enemy...one thing that actually bothered me was the fact that this novel was published without the permission of Vedran Smailović...
I think that those who didn't like it would have valued a bit more balance in the narrative, with some exploration of the perspective of the besiegers.
I thoughtthis was a strength though - there was no attempt at analysis, and minimal value judgements - this is a book about struggle.
Well, I remebr the news of the mortar shell on the market, and hearing from Sarajevo on the news during the siege, but I had no real idea of the conditions in the city, and this book was convincing on that.
FINISHED FIRST TIME NOV 1 2008Everyone: read this book.
I feel so blessed and sick at the same time.
Blessed for where I live.
Sick for the ignorance that's been mine.
How many people are suffering every day while I go about my life?
This is one of the best books that I have read.
My next step is to learn more about the conflict in Sarajevo.SPOILER HERE ----> How amazing is the humanity in each person.
How amazing the stories of people who rise above.
How amazing was this perfect book?READING AGAIN JULY 2016
This book is raw and powerful.
Written in the present tense, you are with the characters on the streets of Sarajevo during the siege of 1992-1995.
It isn't fun being there, but it is compelling.
Why?The author has taken a dark event in human history and crafted a story whose theme transcends that event and is relevant to each life in every situation: Each life is important, that self respect and self reliance are the right and duty of each of us, just as it is our right and duty to have and show respect for others.
The Seige of Sarajevo lasted from April 1992 to February 1996, and devastated the city.Four citizens of Sarajevo are connected by one of them - a cellist who vows to perform Albonini's Adagio once per day in honor of the 22 victims of a missile strike at a bakery.
Powerful images of war and the effects on the civilian population as well as the soldiers.
Our apartment was in one of the buildings described in this book.
And we crossed the - NEW - bridge (which in the book is but a few beams not yet destroyed) every day to go to the market.
