https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92307.Being_and_Time
Is it unreadable? Yes. Were the 17 words I did understand enough to blow my mind and change my life and understanding of philosophy and being? Yep.
But this also means that Being and Time is a primordially 'humane' book, for it was Heidegger who truly brought the existentialist consciousness to the fore of our developing consciousness as a species.
This is important, because this tradition represents 'substance metaphysics' or 'the metaphysics of presence' which Heidegger attacks throughout the entire text ; (these terms simply mean the positing of some kind of unit of 'stable timelessness' that 'stands behind' or 'hangs over' human existence, be it the 'soul', 'consciousness', 'God', 'Atman', 'Will', 'Forms' or what have you).
Sein und Zeit = Being and Time, Martin Heidegger (1889 - 1976)Being and Time (German: Sein und Zeit) is a 1927 book by the German philosopher Martin Heidegger, in which the author seeks to analyse the concept of Being.عنوانها: وجود و زمان؛ هستی و زمان؛ نویسنده: مارتین هایدگر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه سپتامبر سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: هستی و زمان؛ اثر: مارتین هایدگر؛ مترجم: سیاوش جمادی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ققنوس، چاپ دوم 1387، در 942 ص، موضوع: هستی شناسی، فضا و زمان از نویسندگان آلمانی - سده 20 منخستین بار با عنوان: «وجود و زمان» با ترجمه منوچهر اسدی، توسط انتشارات پرسش، در سال 1385 چاپ و منتشر شده استهستی و زمان هایدگر یک مقدمه است و یک بخش.
and i'm glad i read (and discussed) augustine's confessions with a wonderful group of people, during a course - otherwise i would have understood nothing at all from the part about temporality.the dynamic of the book is very musical, it seemed to me.
as if the loooong sounds are repeated and repeated again, creating a texture which changes your "mood" - your "attunement" - making you able to see how a new "ground" is disclosed.of course i can't say anything coherent about it.
and i don't think anything coherent needs to be said in this review.there's no substitute for reading it - if you want to understand where contemporary philosophy is coming from.
Heidegger wanted to minus these theories completely, so he created Dasein, which can only be looked with a single beam of philosophical light and character of which is only temporality.Objects like tree, stone, table can have a present-at-hand single physical view but human beings like coin have two-dimensional interplay and this interplay is termed as ‘time’.This thought process of Heidegger’s echoes Critique of Pure Reason, the famous 18th century work by Immanuel Kant.
This I will re-read, and re-read, and re-read, until I get all the chapters. This book actually blew me away and made me think differently about a lot.My philosophy teacher told us to fall in love with the philosopher we're studying , like he had with Heidegger, and so I did too (completely ignoring the fact he was a nazi). I will return to this very soon.
The book was a template on how I've approached my life up until now and I didn't realize that somebody else thought as similarly (but in formal philosophical structures) as I do about the nature of the human experience.
(There is an incredibly nuanced presentation of the nature of science that runs through out the book that predates Thomas Kuhn's "The Structures of Scientific Revolutions" but follows it substantially.
I would recommend skipping the introduction and read it after you've read the book.
This book is the exception.
This book made my life come back into light. It also serves as proof that philosophy is about life, and nothing else. Being and Time renewed a sense of autonomy and history that I hadn't thought possible, my responsibility for the places, people, and meanings I carry with me, and those that I choose to leave behind.
I would rate this as the number one philosophical book written in the 1900's. I wish I had read it in my twenties. Given, it is at times frustrating to read, however it is also addicting at the same time. This is one of the books I will keep with me for life.
This book will change your life...if you can understand it.
Heidegger is a brilliant man who sees the world in a way that is very different, yet very familiar at the same time.
If you aren't familiar already with the concept of "being-in-the-world", then it's suggested you take a class on Heidegger, or read a beginning or companion guide.
You know how sometimes when you're driving a car, you forget that you're driving, and think to yourself, how did I end up here?
If you want to know why that might be, check out Heidegger.
(Who are great helps, all of them.) What's really interesting about the book is that Heidegger is simply describing basic everyday "common sense," but in order to get back to the common sense of Aristotle he has to deconstruct 500 years of western thinking.
He does this brilliantly, but learning his language and methodology is not easy.
He's asking us to jettison the way we've learn to think about being.
But it has changed the way I read philosophy, and I though I'm not ready to sign on to Heidegger's ontology without reservation, I don't regret one minute of the frustration this book has provided me.
One of the most important philosophical books of the 20th century. Heidegger gives an idea of the ontological structures of existence. Some people have a love/hate relationship with this book, I sympathize with them :) My first read was in Greek and I found the translation to be challenging. It has nevertheless helped me to revaluate the book the second time I read it in English, I found it to be rewarding of my time and effort. If you haven't read Heiddeger before, it is not a good idea to start with this book.
I personally, am all for a book that created Continental philosophy and goes further than Wittgenstein in its deconstruction of Metaphyics, Epistemology, the problem of mind and body, of the world, other minds, etc.
Traditional philosophy, according to Heidegger, has made the metaphysical mistake that our way of being is that of the rational and the logical, to question the world as an object.
Heidegger shows that we are part of the world, inseparable from it and the entities that are among us.
From here Heidegger unveils Dasein and its world existingly.
before 1927 there was darkness and god said let's be light and published being and time "our aim in the following treatise is to work out the question of the sense of being and to do so concretelywhat determines beings as beings, that in terms of which beings are already understood."but than god sad let's be cloud and there was only one part of being and time
This book changed my life. It helps that I'm a philosophy major, and took a class on the book (which I honestly recommend NOT reading it unless you have someone who actually understands it helping you). This is the book that make me decide to actually go into Philosophy, specifically 20th Century Continental. It's just... amazing.
What I mean is, you cannot possibly come to fully grasp the later sections of the book without grasping earlier sections.
If you have never read Heidegger before, expect to reread certain paragraphs at least twice before their meaning begins to dawn on you.
Alternately, I would plan on a commitment of at least a few months if you want to glean anything at all from the text.For those who have read Heidegger before: this book is definitely his magnum opus.
Also, reading this book more than once is a must!
In lieu of a review a brief history of philosophy.I. The beginnings, e.g., the Pre-socratics.II. Plato footnoted by AristotleIII. Immanuel Kant aufgehoben by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich HegelIV. 20th century showdown: Martin Heidegger v. Ludwig Wittgenstein
Every academic philosopher should read this text, but its usually glossed over or completely ignored by phenomenologists...
the simple reason I say this is that Heidegger gives a deconstructive "Definition" of phenomenology that would probably shock most academics who build their careers on "Schooling - Phenomenology..." He says...
"Phenomenology is not a school.
It is the possibility of thinking, at times changing and only thus persisting, of corresponding to the claim of what is to be thought.
If phenomenology is thus experienced and retained, it can disappear as a designation in favor of the matter of thinking whose manifestations remains a mystery." (p.82 My Way of Phenomenology)....
Well ... This is one of the key works of philosophy and a classic. Heidegger tries to figure out the meaning of being in this astounding work of immense scope.This is one book that you can't just read once and then think you have understood - this one will require that you go back to it time and time again to get it all.Very hard to read, very hard to understand, very impressive.
this book absolutely fascinated me. It was helpful though to have a German copy to read in parallel, as the translation into English sometimes "swallows" some of the world plays that make it easier to understand. Time to re-read
One of my favorite books. If you don't have a philosophy background, you'll want to read a few commentaries first (dreyfus is good). Also read up a little on the metaphysics of Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Kant and Husserl.
I must have read Division 1 two or Three times during those two years, however I never got around to Division 2.
It was a strange experience, because the first half of the course I felt pretty confident and well-versed, but then there was a sudden drop off when we got to Division 2, and I felt like I was starting over.
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---It is hard to overstate the importance of Martin Heidegger’s Being and Time.
We promise!Readers interested in Heidegger’s influence should can Jean-Paul Sartre’s Being and Nothingness, Hans-Georg Gadamer’s Truth and Method, Emmanuel Levinas’ Totality and Infinity, Gilles Deleuze’s Difference and Repetition, Jacques Derrida Disseminations, Luce Irigaray’s The Forgetting of Air, and Alain Badiou’s Being and Event.---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---
Though Heidegger's thinking underwent many changes over the course of his career and though existentialists of all sorts of explored the "situatedness" of our experience, I've always been devoted to Being and Time for opening awareness to the complexities of Dasein .
creative and culturally oriented observations in so many disciplines have been affected by this and other ideas in this book.
A rival (in my mind) to Kant in his meticulous analysis--sometimes maddeningly so!--Being and Time stands with few other books in terms of their influence on subsequent Continental Philosophic thinking.
A book that one must read and reflect upon much more than once.
It will ever be on my list of to-reread.Heidegger opened the space for what philosophy is destined to become, if it is to remain alive.
Also, I agree with many others that this is not the best way to get into Heidegger, although in some ways it is.
I would suggest perhaps starting with this, reading his other works, and keep coming back to this.
It is meant to be reflected upon more than once, and reading it after Heidegger's later works brings out so much more as well.
An incredibly difficult read, but well worth the effort.
This book is the foundation of all of Heidegger's thought and the culmination of 2 milllenia of Philosophic thought from Plato to Nietzsche and Husserl.
At root this is really a book about Me and my relationship to the world I live in and my being in it.
There are other essays and books by Heidegger that are more enjoyable reads, but without the foundation and context of Being and Time you're likely to be confused while reading them.
I've read both translations of Being & Time and the Macquarrie and Robinson translation is far superior in my opinion.
One of the most important books in philosophy.
Heidegger shows how meaning cannot be separated from its context and puts what may be the last nails in the platonic idealist notion of a humans having a knowledge of some reality of forms.
Heidegger leads to Sartre and the Existentialist crowd, who take various turns at literary, political and other incarnations of how meaning is embedded in context.
He is also the philosophical Father of Derrida, who takes the ontological notion of meaning one step further to say not only can we not remove meaning from context, but because of that we can also never really ever guarantee truth.
To me there is no one who approaches the most fundamental questions of phenomenology and ontology with such clarity and rigor as Heidegger. As a being for whom our being is a concern, this text is a must read for anyone who wishes to seriously think within the fields of philosophy, as many arguments can be made for the primacy of the ontological question in regards to philosophical thought. I highly recommend this work to persons of all degrees of interest in philosophy.
Probably the most acute philosophical essay after Nietzsche and before Deleuze. A travel to the disembodiment of the cultural egos in order to find a basis for the self, and to show the limits and disorder of contemporary sciences. The language is not difficult in itself, and there are many practical examples of daily life, but the repetition of the word 'being' in almost every sentence of the book renders it difficult to digest for most readers.
addresses the most fundamental question. supplies a completely new language for understanding what it is to exist. possibly the most important book i have ever read.
