https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84295.Our_Enemy_the_State
This book isn't what I thought it would be.
The State has got you by the balls and you're not going to wiggle out of it and don't even try to get hopeful ideas about winning the next election and righting the ship!
When you consider the history lesson he gives from his vantage point under FDR, and you line that up with America under Obama, it makes a good deal of sense.
Obama isn't the cause, he's the logical result of the system.
His predecessors did the very same kinds of things.
Perhaps he's been worse in degree, but not in kind.
This book is a must read for anyone that wants to have a deeper understanding of human nature and "the state".
I would like to add that it doesn't matter what system of governance we have, if the people are wicked so shall be the government and its destruction and vice versa.The book is broken up in six parts:1) It goes over how the state gains power.
He also makes observations about the US (one interesting one was how the two party system started from the beginning and how, since 1910, the two parties are not any different).2) Then he goes over the difference between government and the state.3) The then goes over the early history of the U.S. and it's experiences with Britain.
The State – in whatever external form it takes, whether Monarchy, Communism, Socialism, Fascism, or Democratic Republicanism – exists for no other reason than to function as legally-sanctioned organization to enable its members to live by the political rather than the economic means.
Since I happen to be one of these type readers I liked the book very much and think Mr. Nock makes a compelling case for his premises, but I can certainly understand how many people might not enjoy it so much.
Nock further argues that:1) it is in the nature of the state to continually expand its power at the expense of society.2) it is in the nature of people to allow the state to do so, either out of greed and lust for power (on the part of those in the state working for expansion); or out of laziness (on the part of the rest of us who would rather let it happen, than actively fight the expansion of state power).
From this point, Nock argues that the state will increasingly cement its power first by gradually outlawing the exercise of it by any other institutions (again, re: the TSA).
Un libro muy bueno que tiene muchas reflexiones y ejemplos interesantes sobre la voracidad y prejudicialidad del Estado.
Al ser georgista, tiene una fijación excesiva con la propiedad de la tierra, lo que lamentablemente le deja ciego a varios temas interesantes de abordar, además que a veces parece guiarlo a conclusiones al menos incompletas.
Segmentos omitidos, traducciones deficientes que no transmitían el sentido del texto original, errores de escritura, y hasta al menos un caso en que la traducción decía lo contrario que lo que decía la versión original.
There should be a warning on the cover of Nock's book stating, "Reader beware, you level of cynicism toward your government will rise exponentially after reading this book." Nock's polemic is a incisive critique of the State. He doesn't offer much hope to those looking for a solution to the State problem--he sees Statism as too entrenched--but, IMO, helps remove any notion that the State is anything but our common enemy against social power (individuals exercising their personal liberties to creatively address/solve societal problems/challenges). Read this book and then join me in cursing the State.
Beware: your orthodoxy is about to be challenged.
Nock ordena el libro con estos conceptos que es necesario tener claro para su correcta comprensión: poder social o medios económicos versus poder político o medios políticos que es una clasificación propiamente liberal, la diferencia entre gobierno y Estado que es la teoría más anarquista del libro, el proceso histórico de pasar del "Estado feudal" al "Estado comercial" que es su análisis de clases sociales, su definición del liberalismo como una teoría de los derechos individuales y el republicanismo como una teoría de la soberanía popular.
Nock's book is a good summary of the laissez-faire liberal ideology.
For someone who is relatively new to these topics, this might be a good starting point - or might HAVE been 70 years ago.
It borrows heavily from people like Herbert Spencer, whose collection of essays, "Man versus the State", is not only referenced by Nock quite often (even obliquely in the title), but is morever a better book.
If Herber Spencer is "The Beatles" of liberarianism, A.J. Nock is "The Monkees."Nock's work doesn't offer much in the way of innovation.
And Nock is not a mere "parrot" of received (anti-state) wisdom; his topical insights are often lucid.
An insightful analysis of the difference between the legitimate government versus the tyrannical state--both philosophical and historical, ranging upon issues such as the state's relationship with religion, property and class interests. Nock justifies libertarian values, but in the end appears pessimistic against the inevitable rise of state control in a sham democracy.
Your view of government or The State will likely change after reading this classic. Although written in 1935, the themes ring true today. Have a dictionary on hand when reading this as Nock is a true wordsmith.
Nock distinguishes between government, the means by which living together we ensure our rights and duties to one another, and the state which exists solely to protect itself, enriching a minority of the population.
Nock distinguishes social power from state power, the former owing to cooperation for mutual benefit and the later to exploitation of one group in favor of another.
Nock endorses the view of Henry George that private ownership of land beyond what one occupies and what improvements have been made is illegitimate, a rent which would not exist without state power which deprives those work the land the fruit of their labor and those who need somewhere to live due to absentee perpetual ownership.
He argues that as long as there is state humans will be inclined to use it for the political power it gives in order to circumvent the economic way of being prosperous, no state no matter how pure and good it's founding principles can escape this degeneration.
But yet humans always choose the political mean and out of a system of government (meaning for the author natural law and only negative interventions; similar to modern an cap and ultra minimal state) a state will arise in a way or another.
It is broken down into six parts; each exploring a differentiated “State” from “government.”One of my favorite bits out of many:“Thus while the American architects assented ‘in principle’ to the philosophy of natural rights and popular sovereignty, and found it in a general way highly congenial as a sort of voucher for their self-esteem, their practical interpretation of it left it pretty well hamstrung.
They were not especially concerned with consistency; their practical interest in this philosophy stopped short at the point which we have already noted, of its presumptive justification of a ruthless economic pseudo-individualism, and an exercise of political self-expression by the general electorate which should be so managed as to be, in all essential respects, futile.”
Excellent review of how the state usurps freedom. It was written in 1935, but a lot of what Mr Nock predicted came true, including some of the unintended consequences he warned about.
Libro interessante.
As an English learner, I found this style of writing is a bit hard to follow.
The book rings true and has some generally correct predictions, but on the whole it misses a more holistic approach and reduces every issue to that of state power and class division.
This book offers the provocative and utterly reasonable thesis that the American Revolution, particularly establishment of the American Constitution, had as its purpose replacing the political-economic exploitation of the American colonies by British financial and merchant interests with political-economic exploitation of American farmers and workers by local financial and merchant interests.
Every other book I've read about the American Revolution portrayed the Americans as morally superior to the English, but Nock argues persuasively that they were not.
It appears to me that this book is a response to, and influenced by An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States.
This is the book for an introduction to the insidious nature of the state.
After reading this book, a solution to the world's problems may not become clear.
But the fact remains that this is a seminal work in understanding the state and should be enough to convince any honest individual of its dangers.
I'll admit that Nock's historical evaluation of American independence seems to go a bit too far.
There's no question that implementing a state more "friendly" to American business and elite was one motivation for independence from the British.
Another common complaint is that Nock doesn't provide any solutions.
Don't get me wrong, the beginning and the ending are excellent.
Nock makes the same mistake as most anarcho-capitalists in dismissing many of the positive movements toward individual liberty that did dominate at times in the Western legal tradition.
So while the founding movement and the U.S. Constitution were certainly imperfect, I think that Nock makes them sound almost wholly bad, dismissing the historical significance of the founding era and what it meant for individual liberty in the grand scheme of history.Read "Our Enemy, the State" for some good political theory, but don't expect great historical analysis.
I agree with the principles in general, but Nock is overly cynical, which made for a fairly unpleasant read.
His point that the State is a dangerous force is something I can agree to, but wading through chapter after chapter if ridiculous cynicism is too much, and a waste of time.
I don't like wasting my time reading obvious untruths, just to get to some final nugget of truth.
Certainly, but the jump to some kind of conspiracy to enslave the Poors and establish the United States in order to protect these profits?
A great work of history and libertarian thought written in 1935 and in only 100 pages.
Nock says he wrote it only for those " .
. .alien spirits who, while outwardly conforming to the requirements of the civilization around them, still keep a disinterested regard for the plain intelligible law of things." Indeed.
If you don't know the difference between government and The State, read this book.
If you don't understand the important difference between social power and state power, read this book.
If you think universal healthcare provided by the State is a good idea .
well, you're nuts, but read the book anyway.
A pretty scathing take on the State, or in today's terms, any form of government that has power over you.
Nock puts in pretty convincing terms why the state has power over us, why we let them have that power, and what we can do about it at this point.
Which is basically nothing.
However, if you are a statist, maybe you should pick up this quick read and re-analyze your actions and motivations of putting that next piece of legislation or bill through to make life better for the rest of us.
Nock was an original American libertarian thinker. At the outset fo this work, he juxtaposes social power with state power. He disapproves the latter, consistent with his libertarian position. On the other hand, he supports the notion of social power, in which people voluntarily work with one another. One quotation well illustrates his view (Page 99): ""[The human] desire for freedom has but one practical object, i.e., that men may become as good and decent, as elevated and noble, as they might be and really wishy to be."An interesting thinker. . . .
Too essentialist in its style of analysis. Purports to identify the nature of "government" versus "the state" and the "economic means" versus the "political means." In doing so, it begs all the questions central to the issues at hand. The bulk of the book is spent with the author obnoxiously rambling (all the while thinking himself far more erudite than he is) and popularizing a questionable restatement of Beard's revisionist American history. There are much better individualist anarchist books out there. Not recommended.
Nock combines ham-handed historiography with a bracing pessimism to produce his analysis. His seminal insight is that state power grows pari passu with the shrinking of social power. He writes, "It is a curious anomaly. State power has an unbroken record of inability to do anything efficiently, economically, disinterestedly or honestly; yet when the slightest dissatisfaction arises over any exercise of social power, the aid of the agent least qualified to give aid is immediately called for."
It is incredible just how applicable this scathing review of America can be almost 100 years after Nock wrote it! I highly recommend you read this well-researched and well-reasoned history by Nock... just remember the time in which is was written, so it's a little higher level than many books out these days.
A concise book attacking the state as an instrument of plunder to those powerful enough to hold its reins, and gives evidence for this thesis citing recent events in Nock's lifetime (the New Deal era), the Ancient world, Renaissance and even the American Revolution.
This is an excellent book, perhaps a little dated now in its style but the content remains as vital as ever. His historical analysis is clear and his analogies of living in the days of the church state are revealing. Well worth a read.
