https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21087479-iron-gustav
In fact the one event that I thought the least likely, the cab journey to Paris, was the one which of course was true.It may have taken over 70 years to see the book in translation for the first time, and it may be an exaggeration to say that it's the best novel ever written, but if you've time to sit down with a 600 page book set in early 20th century Berlin, this is definitely a book that I'd recommend.Now I think I'll have a look on my shelves for a nice novella to read...
Mich beeindruckt immer wieder, in welcher gekonnter Weise er jeder einzelnen Figur in seiner Erzählung eine menschliche Tiefe verleiht und mag ihr Auftreten noch so kurz sein.
Soviel Lobesrede allein schon auf seine Technik.Jedoch überzeugte mich erneut der pikante Inhalt, den er wählte.
Und dennoch gelang es Fallada trotz der kummervollen Lebenumstände seinem Buch einen zweckoptimistischen Anstrich mit humorvollen Nuancen zu verleihen.So störte am Ende auch überhaupt nicht mehr, dass ich mir das Buch in dem Glauben zugelegt hatte, eine ähnliche Geschichte wie in der Verfilmung "Der eiserner Gustav" mit Heinz Rühmann vorzufinden.
I love every one of Hans Fallada's novels and this was a joy to read, but I hesitate to write a review, because it is so hard to convey the magical way in which he takes such ordinary and difficult lives, in such a dark and perilous period of German history, and somehow makes them sparkle.
Spike Milligan would have us accept that Germans lack humour but with this novel, surely, Hans Fallada stared Joseph Goebbels in the face and dared to laugh.
This book took me almost a year to finish, and I loved every minute.I spent that year reveling in the density of Fallada's language: each page contains so much information it feels like a book in itself.
The story spans several years and it's an amazing insight into Berlin's history, and into the limits of people's compassion and determination.(I also spent the year stressing out over coursework and watching way too much Tattoo Fixers, so don't be put off by how long it took me to finish.
This is a powerful novel of the shattering effects of the First World War and the punishing Armistace, which left a wounded country ready for revenge, on both this family and a proud Germany.
It really is a great book and a metaphor for a Germany and the Weimar Republic between the wars that created the vacuum and conditions for the Nazis to seize power and wreak unpardonable harm on the rest of the World, and their own people it must be said, in WWII.
This is a great book.
Set in Berlin, it is on one level a potted history of Germany before, during and after WWI.
It is filled with astute observation and a genuine felt sympathy for the plight of the ordinary people.
As they are fond of telling you Berliners are special people, they have their own way of seeing things and a vicious sense of humour.
This is a book about Berlin and Berliners.
I think I need to read it again in the original to get the full flavour of the dialogue.
Still worth a read in translation though.
"...But nothing had remained. It was as if a child had made marks in the same: the dew obscured them, the wind blew the sand away,rain washed the marks away. Nothing remained."Iron Gustav follows Gustav Hackendahl and his family over 20 years or so, showing the changes and challenges that faced Germans in the early part of last century. This book was a bit of a marathon, but the characters were well constructed and their experiences made me want to read on.
It was reworked shortly after having been written to make it more effective as a piece of propaganda but even knowing this fact it is impossible not to be moved by some of the little tragedies that occur.
The inevitable fate of the one truly likeable member of the Hackendahl family, Otto is very moving.
Some of the characters are a little difficult to read at times; (Mother Hackendahl swings from an unconvincing flatness to wild melodrama that reminded me of Beryl Mercer's playing of Paul's mother in the 1930 film version of All Quiet on the Western Front) however the scope of the story as a whole makes up for this.
In many respects, Hans Fallada is to Germany what John Steinbeck is to the US.
They were roughly contemporaries, both wrote about the common man, and both saw a noble purpose in the life of the average person.Iron Gustav was a Berlin cab driver, a veteran of WW-I and the strict authority figure in his family.
His family mostly fell apart over time, largely due to the extremely poor conditions of the Wiemar years.Like all Fallada novels, the plot in Iron Gustav moves slowly as lives progress; I was left with a strong sense of what it must have been like to have lived in Berlin during that time frame.I am working my way through Hans Fallada's works, and I am certain I will read them all.
A reconstructed translation of what is truly one of the great epics of modern German literature, the fact that we are even able to read this excellent novel in its current form constitutes a great victory, not only on Fallada's part (just read Jenny Williams' foreword to find out why) but also on part of the ordinary, faceless Berliners he depicts.
There is so much I could say about my impression of this novel, but in the absence of my having fully digested it enough to do so, I very much concur with the glowing review of IG in the Irish Times (their literary critics really seem to have a genuine love of his works) which you can find here: https://www.irishtimes.com/culture/bo...
Foreword, by Jenny WilliamsNote on the Translation--Iron Gustav: A Berlin Family Chronicle
The other Fallada novel I have read so far was Alone in Berlin which was financed by the Soviet government as a propaganda piece against the Nazis.Anyway that aside, the novel starts with the news of the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Gustav is the owner of a successful horse drawn carriage taxi company and the stern patriarch of the Hackendahl family.
Keep in mind as I mentioned in the opening paragraph, this was intended to be adapted for film and so Fallada had borne this in mind as he was writing.The novel goes through World War I and then years following the hard depression that had hit Germany in the aftermath.
This is a sprawling tale of the Hackendahl family from the start of World War I to the tumultuous period after.
Fallada masterfully portrays dysfunctional relationships; he does not shy away from tackling the breakdown of familial relations and toxic romantic relationships throughout the novel, reflecting how the larger turmoil in society impacts the lives of individuals and families.
Reading about the impact of historical events (e.g. the political and economic turmoil post-World War I) on the lives of characters like Heinz Hackendahl (Gustav's son) was a powerful experience.
It is heartening to see Fallada's artistic take on this tumultuous period in Germany's history finally shine through in this restored edition.
Keineswegs die leichte Komödie, die man nach der Verfilmung mit Rühmann in der Hauptrolle erwarten würde. Die Droschkenfahrt nach Paris kommt erst ganz am Ende, nach Seite 700, dran. Zuvor wird das Schicksal der Familie Hackedahl von Sommer 1914 bis 1928 erzählt - 1. Weltkrieg, Räterepublik, Nachkriegszeit, Inflation, ... Keineswegs leichte Kost, von Fallada im Stil der neuen Sachlichkeit gekonnt geschrieben, flüssig zu lesen.
Interesting to read the aftermath of WW1 from the German side. Otherwise quite Dickensian.
Der Eiserne Gustav verdankt seinen Namen einem äußerst bezeichnenden Charakterzug, dem eisern sein.
Weder der Industrialisierung, noch dem Ersten Weltkrieg und von der Weltwirtschaftskrise sowieso nicht.
Dann kommt der Erste Weltkrieg und mit ihm die Weltwirtschaftskrise.
Aber der Eiserne Gustav wäre nicht der Eiserne Gustav, wenn er sich davon unterkriegen lassen würde.
Und alle sollen davon wissen.Was ich an diesem Buch wie an den meisten Romanen von Hans Fallada so mag, sind die unterschiedlichen Charaktere: hier treffen wir neben dem Eisernen Gustav noch auf seine ganze Familie, deren Mitglieder mal mehr und mal weniger auf dem Kerbholz haben und die die ganze Bandbreite am Menschsein darstellen.
Inte Falladas bästa men väl läsvärd. Behöver nog lite tid att smälta denna. Mina favoriter är "Hur ska det gå för Pinnebergs?" och "Ensam i Berlin", framför allt den förstnämnda.
Rather mundane in all honesty.
We have all seen the photo of the wheelbarrow of deutsch marks, but Fallada makes very explicit the pain behind the sound bites of the price of bread felt in urban Germany during the war and then after the defeat.
I can't give it five stars for two reasons.
Firstly, despite covering a relatively short period, and including several jumps in time, the handling of the timescale is awful.
The second reason has to do with the much lauded restoration of the text.
I suspect that Fallada was a lot less innocent than we would like to believe in WW2.
An interesting story of an old coachman in Berlin, with very conservative world views and tendencies, around WWI. Things turn from bad to worse for him throughout the book, but just as the story reaches its lowest point, something new is introduced, which lets everything shine in a whole new light.
Unique evocation of Berlin that kept me glued to the pages, even though the writing skill leaves much to be desired. Written as if for film.
