https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/654647.Tarka_the_Otter
Q: Why do they call it tarka dhal?A: (view spoiler)[Because it's like regular dhal, but a little otter. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This is the life story of an otter called Tarka that means "Water Wanderer." What I like about this book is that I was able to learn so many things about an animal that I have not seen in the real world.
First I thought I would understand the story without looking up for those words but I was continuously lost page after page until I checked and learned that "dog" is how a male otter is called, "bitch" is for female otters and "whelp" or "pup" for baby otter.
But on the other hand, there's no moral, no "lesson", just life in the raw the way it really is for a wild animal: cubs, parents and mates disappear from the narrative and are simply never mentioned again.It's not a book about hunting.
Their numbers declined for decades until otters finally disappeared completely from most of England in the 1960s (due as much to pesticides running into rivers as to hunting) and they even made it into the Red Book as "vulnerable to extinction".
I listened to a audio version of this book, and even though I'm not sure, I suspect it may have been an abridged version.
The fact that he is still at it, and doing good work is pretty amazing.The reason I bring up Attenborough's nature shows is simple, listening to this book was a bit like watching one of them without any pictures.
Now I think I have to try to find a print copy of this book, because I suspect this version may have been abridged, and I would like to read it as it was originally published.
Tarka the Otter is written in a very realistic way which doesn't humanize the animals. The language is beautiful and - not being a native speaker - I also learned lots of new words. Once I realized that by dogs, bitches and cubs the otters were meant and not actual dogs I also understood what was going on!Thsi book is often called a children's book but I surely wouldn't have liked it as a child. In spite of all the positive things mentioned above it was still all in all quite boring.
It follows the life of an animal but without trying to explain the animal with human feelings while still recognising that animals can feel happy about seeing each other, can protect their cubs and grieve when they loose one and how they play with each other - but it also shows how a female otter just leaves her cubs without another thought when they're old enough and an interesting male passes by.
Even though our sympathy clearly lies with Tarka, he never feels truly known - he plays with his cub, but we get no descriptions of father feelings.
A memorable story of a Devonshire otter and the otter hunting that went on until otters almost died out in Britain in the 1970s. Unlike some animal story authors, Williamson was as realistic as possible and doesn't have the otters talking to each other in words, so there's virtually no dialogue (just a few hunters shouting to each other). This makes it a slow and sometimes eye-glazing read. But there are some lovely descriptions of the Devon countryside and waters, and I think this is one I'll keep, because I might like to read it again sometime.
This book follows the life of an otter called Tarka.
As he grows up from a young cub, we are drawn into his fascinating adventures in the rivers of North Devon.
Every detail of his life is described in wonderful detail - from hunting for food to searching for his long-lost mate, from bathing on riverside boulders to escaping from the jaws of angry hounds.
Such is our attachment to him by the end of the book that the sad ending is a bitter pill to swallow.
Tarka the Otter has an extremely descriptive narrative and Henry Williamson pays great attention to the detail of the natural world.
Finished on the day that it was announced that otters had been spotted in Kent. This was the last county that these creatures had yet to return to since they were nearly wiped out in the 1970's. Great news as it means the rivers are heathier and it's an indication of what can be done.
I acknowledge that this book is a classic of its kind, and that HW must have put in huge efforts, and was passionate about writing 'the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth' - his deliberate aim and ambition, as it says in the foreword 'How the Book came to be Written' by Eleanor Graham.
I am glad that it was a success for him, and cannot deny the beauty and attested accuracy of some of his descriptions.
For a naturalist, it must be a joy, and certainly at times I was deeply impressed, and loved the illustrations by CF Tunnicliffe, who also illustrated the Ladybird classics What to Look for in Spring/Summer/Autumn and Winter, which I treasure.
This is not The Wind in the Willows (another of my favorite books for different reasons) or Watership Down (another). Naturalistic. It's not animals as people like WIW. Bloodier and less romantic than WD. Almost reads like poetic non-fiction. The book is so loved in the County of Devon that there is (or was until recently) a train called the Tarka Express that ran through the country of the two rivers.There are many editions; one recent one has many photographs of the sites mentioned.
There you are watching the beauty of an orca for half an hour, soft slow music in the background, beautiful footage of the killer whale floating effortlessly in the vivid blue, beauty and grace; getting all emotional when she gives birth and melting over her offspring… and then just like that the overall mood of the documentary changes and suddenly the orca turns into a ruthless killer, devouring a sweet little innocent seal who was doing nothing but minding his own business.
In this case, the life of Tarka (meaning Little Water Wanderer or Wandering as Water).
You understand why sometimes Tarka is the one who is hunted down.
The author also lists the location on every page of the book giving the story a sense of place.
The reader follows Tarka up and down the Two Rivers area and the Severn Sea. The author's use of language is an important part of the book and the imagery is nature-nature as man plays only a minor unbecoming part in the book.
The reader is also immersed in the cycle of life and death.
His short life was quite exhausting for the reader as well as the otter.
The author's title is Tarka the Otter His Joyful Water-Life and Death in the Country of Two Rivers.
I first read this book sometime in my early teen years and although I didn't remember the details I never forgot the story.
Originally written in the late 1920's, it tells the story of the life of a brave and intelligent little otter named Tarka.
In re-reading it I was surprised by how unsentimental it was - it dealt with the life of the otter in a factual but not un-emotional way.
This book, now more than 80 years old, has stood the test of time well and deserves to be read.
It contains a bleak picture indicating the dangers faced by otters prior to the new laws set to protect them since its publication and some perils still faced today!
There are is a glossary of local terminology in the back which is rather useful as it contains words for hedgehogs, stoats, wrens etc that may not be apparent whilst reading.
This book has some incredible imagery of otters playing and bonding which really helps the reader to engage with the animals within the book.
When I was a school student it was a set text, presumably because it's about an animal and children are supposed to like animal stories.
"Tarka" is definitely a novel for adults - and especially for those few adults who thrill to read the English language when it is employed by a literary genius.I have re-read "Tarka" several times since leaving school, and each time discovered more aspects of it which support my view that Henry Williamson was a brilliant writer.
In January 2016 my wife and I did a tour of the countryside in which this marvellous novel is set, visiting (among other places) Henry Williamson's writing hut at Ox's Cross.
I learned something important to me from reading this book: even if it focuses on your favorite animal, that doesn't mean you'll enjoy it.
This may have been great fiction in the year it was written, but now it falls flat.
You could turn the book to any random page and probably nothing would be happening.
There were few characters and they weren't well-developed or interesting...probably because they're feral animals.
The made-up words were also very cool.
But still, very little plot, characters, depth, etc.
That was cool.
And illustrations every now and then are great.
The one book from my childhood that I'd like to re-read someday. Looks like it has faded into obscurity in this part of the world...
Not a Disney-fied version of animal life. A stark tale of life for otters and other wild life of the English countryside, up against man, predators and the everyday struggle for survival. And yet, at times, the interaction of the otters with one another, the descriptions of the countryside and nature, the changing of the seasons, is beautiful and gentle. Not for children under 12.
A cross between Watership Down and Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, but sadly, no where near as good as either
This is a fantastic and bizarre account of the life of an otter filled with lush details of the ecology of North Devon in the early 20th century.
Reading this book is like watching National Geographic.
It's sort of slow, there's no real plot, and lots of small animals die.
Seriously, this book makes Tolkien's descriptiveness seem tame.
It was ridiculously repetitive with the only real action coming in the form of otter hunts, which happened a lot.
About a third of the way into to book I was like:Having said all of that, I know had I read this book as a young teenager, or even as a child, it would have stuck with me much the way Black Beauty did.
It really is a book worth reading.
As many have mentioned, this is an unsentimental, unanthropomorphized recounting of an otter's life.
Otters don't have long-term goals, or character flaws to overcome.
What this book is, though, is a love letter to the Devonshire countryside in which it takes place.
Perhaps because I had an illustrated copy, with photographs of the places mentioned, I was more aware of the landscape than I might have been.
I can see that it must have been important when it came out, as a book that placed the reader in the mind of a wild animal for the first time.
that it meanders like an otter and feels too long.
Tarka the Otter is no work of fiction!
Henry Williamson devoted years of his life to tramp around the Devon countryside, tracking otters, observing them, making detailed notes on their behaviour, and often sleeping rough.
The result is a wonderful account not only of generations of otters but of the surrounding countryside and the other animals – and humans – that played a role in this thrilling story.Marvel at the patience that the author must have had.
Rejoice in the sheer exuberance of otter life.
Tremble with Tarka as the sounds of the otter hounds come down the valley.
A timeless book that shows life through the eyes of an Otter, Tarka, in the beautiful Devon countryside. I remember not liking the ending of this book and refusing to ever read it again, however I think it is one I shall try and revisit.
Loved this book when I was younger and wanted an otter of my own when I was older
[image error]
Previously, I read Henry Williamson's later novel "Salar the Salmon," and heard that Tarka was the more popular book.
Although Salar was a bit challenging to read due of the elaborate and descriptive narrative, it was also quite enjoyable for those very reasons.
Regarding Tarka, I honestly don't feel like I got to know this otter nearly as well as I got to know a fish from the previous Williamson novel.
All in all, it's a nasty death at the hands of the humans who once hunted otters for sport with their hounds.
Although generally thought of as a children's book, this really is just as absorbing and moving to read as an adult.Written almost 100 years ago, using a very broad array of local and (now) archaic words to describe nature, it's a vocabulary-expander, and for me even the two-page glossary at the back wasn't enough.
For today's city kids, I think a lot of the detail may be hard to colour in, but that simply argues for a re-read later!
To be honest, I last read the story so long ago that I remembered very little about it, other than that it ends sadly.
Certainly the best novel that I've read featuring an otter as the main character. Certainly a unique narrative device, and one that has aged surprisingly well. The otters are the good guys, with humans playing their usual roles as enemy to all things good and pure.
