https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100924.Perelandra
"James, does the name 'Perelandra' mean anything to you?""Yes, I believe so.
Poetic name for the planet Venus.
Inhabited by two analogues of Adam and Eve, living in a state of prelapsarian bliss.
All sounds rather pleasant.""Very good, James.
However, we've received intelligence that SMERSH have infiltrated an agent, who is going to try to tempt the Eve-analogue.
We want you to stop him.""Well, as a boy, I always did enjoy stealing the odd apple.""Don't be flippant, James.""I find it's the most effective way to prevent Original Sin.""Hmf. That's as may be.
And James?""Yes?""Good luck."Anyway, that's how I'd have done it.
I thought this was an AMAZING book.
The theme of the book is a re-telling of the "Fall" of Adam and Eve using Venus (called Perelandra) as the setting.
You can tell that C.
I thought it read like lush poetry that was both powerful and emotional.
I was deeply impressed by this story and now look forward to reading the last book of the trilogy That Hideous Strength.
One final note, I listened to the audio version of this story read by Geoffrey Howard and I thought he did s SUPERB job with the narration.
Great. Also read in January of 1990. And also read in April of 2009. Also read in January of 1985. Also read in July of 1980. Listened to it again on audio in 2015.
C.S. Lewis, I'm disappointed in you.
And that's the first time that has happened.
I don't share your religion, but it's never kept me from enjoying one of your books before.
I enjoyed the first book in this series.
I even enjoyed the start of the theological discussions in these books.
And then I hated where they went.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
But since there is no reason for anyone to merely take my word for it, I will do my best to support my recommendation.Though the characters and names are different, the story of “Perelandra” follows the basic outline of Milton’s “Paradise Lost”.
It stands to reason that the tempter will follow the same plan.The last great similarity between “Perelandra” and “Paradise Lost” I want to mention is the way language is used in the temptation of Eve and her Perelandrian counterpart, Tinidril.
Perelandra is a passionate and fierce ocean world with awesome storms, golden sunlight, millions of floating islands, and critters to inhabit them.
On Perelandra live only two sentient creatures: the King and the Queen.
They rule the world as Adam and Eve. A philologist named Ransom is sent from Earth as God's representative with an unknown mission.
When he arrives, he finds the queen alone and soon another guest from Earth arrives.
It is the devil's representative--the age old serpent in the form of another man.
Thus begins a battle between Ransom and the Devil over the soul of the Queen.
Excellent.The Space Trilogy by C.S. Lewis is a classic early science fiction read while at the same time being a more than excellent allegorical story of Christian faith.
The allegory aside you will still get wonderful time tested S/F classic.This volume gives a sort of retelling allegorically of the Genesis story, but with a difference.
Personally I also find it the best in the (C.S.Lewis space Trilogy) series story wise.If you have read the first in the series (Out of the Silent Planet) then you've already met "Ransom" and been introduced to the allegorical "pictures" or names used to represent God. Here Lewis takes a look at temptation and human reaction to it.
2.5 Stars . So here's a fun fact: C.S. Lewis and J.R.R. Tolkien were the best of friends (Lewis even dedicated The Screwtape Letters to Tolkein). Lewis wrote this series because of a contest him and Tolkien had, in which one of them agreed to write a trilogy about Space Travel, while the other would write a trilogy about Time Travel. For Lewis, this series was the result . . . Tolkien, unfortunately, never actually finished his book on Time Travel haha. When they first met, Lewis was a staunch
Lewis wrote this series because of a contest him and Tolkien had, in which one of them agreed to write a trilogy about Space Travel, while the other would write a trilogy about Time Travel.
Tolkien, unfortunately, never actually finished his book on Time Travel haha.
His non-fiction books like Mere Christianity and The Abolition of Man are a huge part of the reason I came to understand my own faith.
The majority of this book is dialogue in which Ransom preaches to you as the reader, or argues with Weston about good and evil, and it makes for some of the weakest presentations of ideas (in my opinion) that Lewis ever wrote.
What Ransom finds when he lands on Venus, or Perelandra as it is called by the angelic beings known as eldila, is unlike anything he could have imagined.
Mars, or Malacandra, was a planet at the end of its life cycle, as evidenced by the harsh environment and the disappearance of an entire species of cognitive beings.
The man and woman on Perelandra are also the first new race to be created since the coming of Christ on our planet, which was an event that radically changed the universe.
How will that coming effect the new life beginning on Perelandra?
When Ransom explains that there’s an epic battle between good and evil, that the planet Venus is about to play an important part, and that he’s been called to Venus to do some unknown task, Lewis begins to worry about his friend.
When he finally meets her, he discovers that evil lurks in this seemingly perfect world.If you were able to ignore the Christian allegory in Out of the Silent Planet, you won’t be able to do so in Perelandra — it’s a parallel version of humanity’s awakening in the Garden of Eden and Eve’s temptation to sin.
World War II, the loss of almost an entire generation of men in England, the rise of both fascism and communism--I could go on for a while.
But instead of merely reflecting the ugliness around him, Lewis was bold enough to imagine what it could have been like if the ugliness was cut off at its root.Perelandra is just this kind of exploration.
In this second of Lewis's so-called "Space Trilogy", Ransom (a protagonist loosely based on J.R.R. Tolkien) travels to Venus.
Ransom finds himself the only person capable of preventing a man possessed by the devil from subverting a second Eve (this one with green skin).The language in this book is lush, the imagery fantastic.
"In the name of The Father, The Son, and The Holy Ghost, here goes--I mean, Amen!" --Dr. Ransom, before throwing a rock in Satan's face.The second book in C.S. Lewis' "Space Trilogy" was overall better than the first.
A good chunk of the book covers Weston's attempts to tempt Tililandra (Venus Eve), and Ransom's attempts to foil him, all of which present interesting questions regarding the actual temptation of Adam and Eve--I like the idea of someone like Ransom, who knows what Satan is up to, trying to use his own philosophical rhetoric to try and convince Eve not to listen.
Read in the following years:20072010 (January 31)2012 (23-25 April)2013 (29-31 March)2014 (2-6 August)2015 (19-27 August)
It seems that every time I read this book (which is much more theology and fantasy than it is science fiction) that I like it more.The main character from Out of the Silent Planet, Dr. Elwin Ransom, returns once again in this book; he is sent to the planet Perelandra (Venus) by the Oyrasa of Malacandra (Mars), and he suspects he was chosen not because of any merit on his part but because he knows how to speak the Universal Language.
Five stars for the world building alone. C. S. Lewis had incredible ability to put himself in a completely foreign situation. The plot was sterling too, with a stirring face off between good and evil.
When I was a senior in high school, I decided to do my author paper on C.
S. Lewis and choose to specifically emphasize this book.
Of the three books in the space trilogy, this one would be my favorite.
I love how Lewis takes a look back at what the garden of Eden might have been like while still avoiding being allegorical.
I love how he throws in huge theological truths in a more understandable story form.
There are points where I would differ from him theologically, but that does little to detract from all that I learned from this book.
This bother is balanced I think by the fact that this seems tied to the foundation for his narrative - because of the way he has set things up for this story to take place it binds him to this perspective, whether or not he would have agreed with this in our reality.
How often we rationalize away Truth that we've discovered or Need that we see or possible action that we could take.One thing I found strange is that, for all Ransom seems very aware of spiritual forces on Thulkandra (Earth), he seems almost oblivious to their reality when he is on Perelandra.
Weston as the Unman truly creeped me out, because I think Lewis wanted him to have that effect upon us.The book has a setting that reflects its purpose: long rambling thoughts full of seemingly small questions, like the soft islands gently floating about in an always-changing sea; broad sweeps of description containing tiny bits of detail, like Weston plucking out words to twist them to his purpose while at the same time sweeping aside all else he sees fit.
However, also just as in that book, having the audio helped me past that to the point where I was amazed at C.S. Lewis's imagination in the world of Perelandra.
Same deep world view, different venue.UPDATEThis book is so different from Out of the Silent Planet and yet we see C.S. Lewis's vivid and inspiring imagination just as clearly.
I am simply blown away by his vision of creation on Venus.
I think it is simply that these books would go on the theology shelf in my library while something like The Hobbit or The Lord of the Rings would go in more general reading.
Interesting tale, dampened for me by too much physical description
There seems no plan because it is all plan: there seems no center because it is all center."  Lewis strikes a balance between continuation and stand-alone in this, the second book in his space trilogy.
(Seriously, if you figure that out, let me know—I’m groping my way through parenthood over here.)To put it bluntly, this book stretched the limits of my brain.
There is an ignorance of evil that comes from being young: there is a darker ignorance that comes from doing it, as men by sleeping lose the knowledge of sleep."*"Am I then seeing only an appearance?
It’s the second book in his celebrated Space Trilogy, which chronicles the adventures of British philologist (language expert) Edwin Ransom as he travels between Earth, Mars, and Venus and discovers his fate is inextricably connected with events both physical and spiritual on all three worlds.In Perelandra, Ransom is transported to Venus, “Perelandra,” a world of vast oceans and floating islands.
Professor Weston, an evil scientist who shanghaied Ransom onto a spacecraft to Mars in the trilogy’s first book, Out of the Silent Planet, lands on Perelandra.
Have you ever asked yourself how the narrative of human religion, specifically Christianity, would apply to sentient species in other galaxies, should they inevitably exist in the infinite universe?
If human religion is indeed the universal Truth, how would it coalesce with other races, creation stories and cultures on different planets?
For example, is God becoming Man on Earth an event mirrored in the local races and narratives of other possible intelligent species?
If not, would other life-forms be aware of the miracle that occurred here and what would come of it?Lewis' ambitious novel expands Christianity into a broader story across space and time to incorporate a more modern, less anthropocentric understanding of the universe into our own culture.

A beautiful dance of argument and imagery.
He puts you into a whole new world with imagery and pulls you right back down to your own life with his arguments.
C.S. Lewis is truly a genius with language and scripture.
He was able to blend themes from his other books and christen them into this masterpiece.
Loved the tangibility and rationale of why we do good things and follow Christ.
I will most likely have to read it again to fully digest all of the themes he presented, and I love Lewis for making me do that.
brain feels stretched
This is my second time reading this book.
This was much more difficult to get through than the previous book of this series, Out of the Silent Planet.
Some very long segments where the reader feels like they are suffering through the prolonged struggles with the main protagonist.
A number of unbelievable moments where the magnitude of Ransom's struggle is downright terrifying.
A bit wordier than the previous book and was easy to put down in that it didn't urge the reader on; but difficult to pick up where left off at times because of perhaps unnecessarily complex and lengthy descriptions.
A Puritan like John Owen writes a theological treatise "On Sin and Temptation."When it comes time for Lewis to write on the nature of sin and temptation he gives us a story.What comes out of this story, however, is such insight and wisdom about the nature of sin, desire, covetousness and satisfaction.The closing speeches in the last chapter are filled with such beauty they are almost overwhelming. You will come away with deep awe of and amazement at the person of Christ and the plan of our great God.
This second installment seemed much more philosophical, much more dense, much more cerebral, and ultimately much more obviously Christian-themed than OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET. It was also longer, but the events therein were no less interesting. Much more reflective, I think. Almost more a treatise than a novel. It contains some moments of genuine horror, and others of sublimity. I'll be interested to see what THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH is all about...
BOOOOOOOOORING. Ransom goes UP a on a wave, Ransom goes DOWN on a wave, he goes UP on a wave, he goes DOWN on a wave, and after 75 pages of this it's no wonder I'm nauseous.
