https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286507.Demon_Lord_of_Karanda
From this, our heroes start a journey to confront the real enemy in a landscape of war and destruction that stems from religious fanaticism, which the author mercilessly satirise, when he does not describe the exciting adventures they finds in front of them.In a nutshell, the series continues to be extremely interesting and especially entertaining.Στο τρίτο μέρος της σειράς η ιστορία παίρνει μία σκοτεινότερη στροφή καθώς διαπιστώνουμε ότι οι δυνάμεις του κακού έχουν περισσότερη ισχύ από ότι νομίζαμε και ότι πολύ περισσότερα πράγματα θα κριθούν μέσα από αυτή τη διαμάχη.
Polgara and Belgarion are descended from Belgarath and his wife, Poledra.
When reading The Belgariad and The Malloreon the reader gets a pretty good idea of this all important lineage...
In all 12 of the books in this universe, Polgara is descended from Belgarath (father) and Poledra (mother).
Now in The Malloreon it's mentioned several times that Polgara is an Alorn.
Polgara is the first born child and direct descendant of Belgarath and Poledra.
Belgarion is of the line of Belgarath and Poledra but his line intermarried with the Alorns (founding the line of the Rivan King) after the recovery of the Orb of Aldur.
Hitting up nicely now
Demon Lord of Karanda is the third book in The Malloreon by David Eddings.
Urvon, in his effort to make a play for the Sardion, has summoned demons let them loose on the countryside, making the race to the Place Which Is No More even more hazardous.
As if things could not get worse, a plague has struck the city where the party is being held, effectively sealing everyone in the city.
This is the book where the new party members, Sadi, Velvet and Toth, really feel like they're a part of things, each with their own role to play and not just replacements for those people we're missing from the first series.
Another great addition to the series, not much new to report though that isn't necessarily a bad thing! I will say this: it is incredible how Eddings can surprise you with his characters. You finally meet characters they've been talking about since The Belgariad and they turn out to be nothing like you imagined them. A very enjoyable twist. You have this idea of a fairly standard villain in mind and the next thing you know your hypothesis is completely and unexpectedly blown out of the water. A must have for every fantasy fan, this series.
The Malloreon feels like a pretty tired reiteration of The Belgariad. Of course, it is explicitly so and is up front in stating that it is intentional, by the means of cyclic prophesies. Nevertheless, while The Malloreon is by no means terrible, all the good stuff it has on offer was already presented, fresher, in its prequel series.
If a good story is worth telling, it's worth telling a thousand times. Eddings seems to agree with this philosophy. This is not a criticism. I read fantasy for fun and escapism, and that is exactly what Eddings supplies!
Eddings. Enough said.Questing, snarking between male and female characters, adequate fight scenes, full to the brim of nostalgia.
And then we have the book where Our Heroes tromp all over the (eastern) continent, killing time until book four.Just enjoy the witty banter along the way.
Having read the series before, and knowing where Toth's story will lead, it's really annoying me that Eddings' didn't give him more page time.
They were meant to be funny, however, and it really wound me up when characters disrespect for women for their own amusement.'About halfway to the imperial platform, however, a blond Melcene girl in a low-cut gown caught [Belgarath's] eye.
The pretty Melcene girl looked after him, her eyes wide ad her hand pressed to the cheek he had touched."Isn't he disgusting?" Ce'Nedra muttered."It's just the way he is, dear," Garion disagreed.
It's disgusting, and I was so disappointed with Eddings reading this, so angry with Belgarath, and at Garion for defending him.
Different plot lines intricately weave together to form an unforgettable whoel.
I enjoyed how Eddings lets you get to know each of the separate peoples and cultures of this world.
The geography and history of this world are fantastically well developed.
I enjoy the way that Eddings starts this tale with what came before in a brief history and then continues on with the story.
He is such a fantastic character.
Above all, I like the fact that I didn’t actually like all of the characters, but could appreciate all of their purposes in the novel.
This novel was definitely unforgettable.
In my opinion, it is between this book and The Diamond Throne as the best novel he ever wrote.This book gives us a lot of exposure to Beldin, another of my favorite Eddings characters.
Eddings had really hit his stride as a writer at this point, finishing this series with a thunderous climax over the next two novels and had not lost any steam when he sat down to create the world and story of the Elenium trilogy.As you can tell from this review, I like the relationships between the characters.
The story sort of takes a back seat to the depth of the characters by this point.
I am writing the same review for the entire Malloreon as it is nearly impossible to pick out each book from the series as if it were a stand alone novel; they all tie together and build on one another.For me, this series was not as good as the Belgariad.
However, even as I re-read occasionally as an adult I think the first series was better than the second.Generally, the books have the same quality of writing and the same types of plot highlights and twists to keep the story moving and interesting.
It's great to re-visit the characters from The Belgariad and see them in action again; unfortunately, that's the best thing that can be said about the series.
However, Eddings fails to move forward with his writing and, instead, gives us what is essentially the same plot from The Belgariad over again.
If you've read The Belgariad and loved it, you should certainly read The Mallorean, as well.
Eddings continues to re-hash the plot from The Belgariad throughout most of the rest of his writing career.
The problem is that he never does it better than he did in The Belgariad, so there's no reason to read anything else.
As the third in the Malloreon series this one is packed with action, from one on one fights to all out battles with an added dose of desperation as Zandramas uses Garion's son to control both him and Ce'nedra making their actions unpredictable and dangerous.
If this isn't enough there is of course the bigger story that all the world could be destroyed if the wrong decisions are made and the wrong action taken.
But worry not, Polgara, Belgarath and Silk are on hand to lighten the mood with their wit and prevent utter catastrophe with their wisdom.
This series is definitely getting tense.
Amazing, fast-paced read that you just can't bring yourself to put down. Hands down my favourite in the wonderful Malloreon series. The supporting cast are, as usual, absolutely hilarious, and the rush to save Geran becomes increasingly tense and gripping with the threat posed by the demons and the plague. Zakath, despite his flaws, is irresistably charming, and the grudging respect and friendship developing between him and Garion is one of the biggest highlights of the novel.
This book dragged a bit for me -- not sure if it's actually any worse in quality than any other book in the series or I'm just getting a bit tired of the repetition -- but it gets to where it's going in the end. Several of the climactic scenes are very satisfying. (Honestly I love every single Poledra cameo and would forgive a lot for her appearances. And I love Vella.)
2.5 stars, nista vise od toga.Dejvid Edings ume da osmisli rase, njihove religije i ponasanje, ali ipak ponekada citaocu dodje da povrati od dosade...Osim putovanja, putovanja i putovanja nicega drugog nije bilo u ovom delu Malorijade, osim iznenadjujuce pojave Belgaratove, davno nestale supruge do cijeg znacaja tek treba doci...Nadam se da ce sledeci deo serijala biti znatno zanimjivilji...
In this book, the third in the sequelling series to the Belgariad, events really take it up a notch. We have some new characters appear in the form of demons and a new added danger to our Heroes and their quest. We have added humour in the form of mischievous kittens and the distractions they offer in councils of war and other such occasions.Time to continue on with the adventure!
This was rather slow. Or it could be the fact that. I've been busy. I like the fact that I guessed Beldin was in the book. I like guessing things in fantasy novels. That's why they're fun. Yet, this was rather boring.
demon lord of Karanda by David EddingsI give this book 5 starsI loved this book fabulous I have read this set of books many times
another enjoyable chapter...
Hikayenin sürükleyici ve anlatımı güzel 3. kitabı. İnsanı yormadan maceranın içerisine çekiyor. Karakterlerin gelişimi devam ettiğinden ilgiyi devam ettirebiliyor.
I probably read and re-read this series more than a dozen times between it's release and my 21st birthday, and it is probably one of the primary reasons for my love of the epic/high fantasy genre.Over 20 years later, and with a much broader experience of various writing styles and genres, I can identify numerous things that differentiate Eddings' style from the more 'Epic' styles of Tolkein or Robert Jordan, or even George R.R. Martin.One of these faults is that, although set richly detailed world, the characters sometimes seem bland and one-dimensional.
Another is what many consider to be the now cliched use of prophecy as a vehicle for the plot.These 'faults' may prevent others from categorising the story as Epic Fantasy.
However, this is a book (and series) which I still truly believe sits square in the 'Epic' or 'High' fantasy genre.
They convince him he needs to return to Mallorea and deal with the demons overrunning his country & he takes them with him.He and Garion get to know one another & become a bit chummy on the trip.
Garion & company sneak out because they have an appointment to keep elsewhere, following Zandramas to Ashaba to find the Place That is No More.Sadi & Velvet both prove their worth in this book.
In an adventurous sequel to THE MALLOREAN, David Eddings tells the story of King Garion's abducted infant son and his efforts to save him. Unfortunately, he and his friends are detained by the friendly, but determined Zakath, who refuses to let them leave. As a horde of demons ravage the Cities and a plague lets loose its terrors, Garion has little time left to reach his destination, or the kidnapper wins by default. ### From Library Journal The trial of the sorceress Zandramas leads Garion and
Eddings uses gentle humor and endearing characters to temper the seriousness of his complex fantasy epic.
In an adventurous sequel to THE MALLOREAN, David Eddings tells the story of King Garion's abducted infant son and his efforts to save him.
As a horde of demons ravage the Cities and a plague lets loose its terrors, Garion has little time left to reach his destination, or the kidnapper wins by default.
As a horde of demons ravage the Cities and a plague lets loose its terrors, Garion has little time left to reach his destination, or the kidnapper wins by default.
I really enjoy reading these books, they have everything that make a good book: great well characterized characters, great story, good dark humor, great witty dialogues, packed with adventure and travels, great created world with each race, etc.
While we find the characters again, like Garion they are in a different place in their lives since their last adventure.
This story also allows the characters to go to places they didn't go the last serie and we get to know more about these people and their cultures.While there are obvious similarities between this sequel and the first serie, it's a pleasure to be back and to be with our cherished characters again.
However, they find friends - and relations - in unlikely places and even being caught in a plague ridden city doesn't stop them for long.
But as they get closer, Zandramas starts to fight back, setting traps and trying to delay them.
There seemed a lot of delays and side stories - some of which seemed relevant at the time, others a bit like padding that I hope have further consequences to the story.
It's also starting to get a bit boring having everything explained as 'just how the prophecies work'!
I was thrown for a loop by Zakath and Garion's friendship, although it may have had some foreshadowing in the way he treated Pol, Errand, Durnik and Errand during the last series.
Classic Durnik.I did find myself a bit annoyed with the way Zakath refused to let the party leave but I guess his turn to the side that rocks couldn't happen that quickly.
Still, the refusal to believe in magic and things in this world they live in seems just a bit thick headed.
He has clearly seen magic but refuses to believe.
Expertly played by the bitch Zandramas, but even more awesome was the rage of the godslayer!
I consumed the two five-book series in a few months, getting in trouble in school for reading when I should have been paying attention (I either didn't care or had already done the homework for whatever it was they were teaching while they were teaching how to do it).When complete, I read the whole series again in half the time.
