https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41017597-the-idiot-girls-action-adventure-club
Frigging hilarious.I, in the five short years since initially discovering this gift to reading, have purchased no less than five copies of this book.
In fact, this book is so funny it caused me to disown her.I gave her a copy to glance through, but she actually started to read, and began to laugh with quick bursts of air.
Then bursts of air and full-on laughing.
By the time I tried to prevent a scene, she was laughing so hard her face had turned red and people were staring.
Rather than admit I was with the nut laughing to herself, I walked away.This is how much I love this book.
It tried a little *too* hard for my taste...(take a look at the titles of all of her books--you'll see what I mean about trying too hard)...didn't ring quite true...too self-congratulatory without being truly funny or anything I could really relate to--which was sad, because with a title like *that*, I thought I'd struck gold.
It just struck me as too over the top--very "look at how goofy and silly and clumsy I am!", with none of the subtlety that you need to pull off something like this...Reminded me of the stand-up comics that you see that are just kinda flailing around onstage, making you more embarrassed than you are entertained...
So, I don't know why, but I was underwhelmed.
I feel like Notaro is that absolutely hilarious friend in your life that you totally think should capture all of your group hijinks in a way only she can.
You know the ones.
Only your friends never do that, because as it turns out, you kind of had to be there.
I think part of the problem for me was the structure, I like short stories, but these felt .
Anyway, like I said, funny at times, I definitely chuckled, but maybe it had been built up too much for me.
If this woman can write a book and get published...I can write a book and get published. There's something very awkward about reading a book about such a mess of a woman. The only interesting or funny story within this composition of short stories based on real life events is the one where she runs over her grandfather at 5mph while he jumps out of the car to grab day old bread out of the dumpster. I'm sure there are plenty of people who thought this was a very clever book. I stand by my first statement.
I really wanted to like this book because the title has so much promise. But I had a hard time identifying with the author. She lives a self-proclaimed mess of a life, and doesn't seem to care since it enables her to poke fun at herself. This book would probably be very funny to someone more free-spirited than myself, but it left me quite appalled that I had bothered at all.
Now, after three years of working together, she has pictures of my father saved in her camera roll for laughs, and when she's out for more than one consecutive day, I send her the cover of Michael Bolton's "How Am I Supposed to Live Without You" album.We also have talked about the fact that we both felt extremely butch in high school compared to our feminine best friends - the "husband" of the pair, if you will - and so it cracked me up reading this that Laurie Notaro feels the same way about her Pretty Friends.
From crashing high school reunions to describing the eight stages of drunk, from arriving at jury duty only to be mistaken for homeless to wearing ex-boyfriend un-washed boxers to the gym, Notaro recounts the misadventures of herself and her fellow Idiot Girls.The book is a light, quick read.
If you are a Seinfeld people, you will love Idiot Girls Action-Adventure Club.
If you are not a Seinfeld people, you will still get enough of a chuckle that it’s a book you should pick up if you can.
I want to be friends with Laurie Notaro. She's rude, cynical, angry, sarcastic, usually drunk, and completey hilarious. The Idiot Girls' Action-Adventure Club is a collection of short stories taken from Notaro's unbelievably amusing life. One of my favorite stories describes Laurie visiting her grandmother in the hospital and having to explain to "Nana" exactly what Monica Lewinsky did with Bill Clinton.Ohter books from Notaro that are equally hilarious: I Love Everybody And Other Atrocious Lies, We Thought You Would Be Prettier, and Autobiography of a Fat Bride.
Hilarious!! Found myself laughing out loud. Funny, sarcastic humor. Loved it!!
This is the second memoir by Laurie Notaro that I have listened to., THe first she did herself and I was pleasantly amused.
Hillary is dry and boring!
Also this one seems even more over the top from her last book.
Combine this together, along with her other books and it is WAY too unbelievable.
I get you make the situations funnier and bigger than the really are but I am starting to question what is remotely real for Laurie.
And Hillary's voice did nothing for helping me stay awake like I had hoped when I choose this audiobook!
Many funny stories don't equal a particularly funny book.This is a collection of newspaper columns that Laurie wrote as the humor columnist for Arizona Republic.
Each 3-5 page story in itself was pretty entertaining in a whiskey tango kinda way - lots of chain smoking, excessive drinking, and lack of personal hygiene but with a humorous spin.
However, the collection of all of the stories in one place, back-to-back, with not even a loose storyline to hold them together ended up being a redundant and quickly lost it's luster.
Laurie Notaro is my new idol, actually idol is probably not the best word because she’s made some pretty stupid decisions.
Like when she decided that it was OK wearing just tights to an appointment with a doctor that was treating her for back pain, only to realize afterward there was a huge hole in the crotch–which the doctor got to see up close because he had to run different tests that involved moving Notaro’s legs around and checking her reflexes.
Especially when she tries to be Martha Stewart and make it her office by purchasing a huge antique desk…that doesn’t actually fit through the door.Pick this book up if you want a good laugh!
I believe Laurie uses this as a device to intrigue, but the humor feels forced at times.
She insisted that in a single afternoon, I could create a private and productive environment for myself by picking a spot somewhere in my house and tailoring it to fit my needs.
Laurie may have gone a little too far with her Martha envy, as the rest goes on to tell us she takes profound comfort (even delight) in the fact that Martha, at least, is divorced.I just can't bring myself to recommend this book to anyone looking for more than a mildly humorous diversion while having their morning cup of coffee.
If you still feel compelled, perhaps read it over a few weeks, one chapter, one morning at a time.
This book was disappointing for some reason, although it should have occurred to me that a book filled with essays about drunken escapades doesn't make for the best reading; one is advised, rather, to participate in drunken escapades of their own.
If I wrote stories about all the times I got drunk and dragged grocery carts up to rooftops and hurled them off, or got drunk and shot bottle rockets at crack dealers, or got drunk and peed my name on a wall but ran out of "spray paint" at R-O-B, then broke down and started sobbing hysterically at the injustice of it all, would you really want to read that book?
Laurie Notaro has put together a funny collection of what seems to be columns from her newspaper work.
Some are laugh-out-loud (the candy apple incident, and Laurie explaining Monica Lewinsky's escapades to her grandmother!); some are mildly uncomfortable.
Some I related to immediately (ashes of the old lady left in her house by an ex-boyfriend -- you'll have to ask me for specifics!); some I got tired of -- all the drinking stories.
But she created some memorable characters, especially the little sisters, nicknamed 'the midgets' who try to adopt Laurie because their own mother seems to be a real loser.
Notaro's voice is distinct and she speaks for many of us in these pieces.
The shopkeeper at the local bookstore picked this book out for me describing the author as the female equivalent of David Sedaris.
I'd say that was a fair assessment.
It got me to read it, and I'm glad I did.
I thought it was hilarious.
There were several parts that made me laugh out loud, and a couple that made me squirm.
The cast of colorful characters made these misadventures come to life.
The author's tales and writing style got me to relate to her.
At times, I pitied her, and at other times, I envied her.
But throughout the whole book I adored her.
Laurie Notaro was billed to me as the new, female David Sedaris, or Augusten Burroughs (sp?) because of her autobiographical vignettes and smart wit. Some parts of this books (which I think was her first) made me laugh out loud, but lots of parts just made me cringe. I hope she has dealt with her drinking issues in ways besides just writing about them! Not necessary to read cover-to-cover, although some stories build on previous info.
Nie da się tego czytać, niestety.
Ha! This book reminded me a lot of my college days, er..late 20s, early 30s...Shit, who am I kidding, there are still parts of current life that I can relate! Quick, funny read based off of her real life newspaper column.
Funny compilation of essays/newspaper columns. Laurie Notaro has made me laugh out loud. Looking forward to reading more of her books.
I had to look up when the heck this was from, and now that I see it's 2002, it makes a bit more sense. It does read like redneck Jen Lancaster - not my favorite book, but amusing enough to listen to the whole thing.
A funny, quick read. Very light anecdotes for the author's early twenties. I found myself unable to put it down and get to bed.
Laurie is a walking disaster. it was a funny and quick read. Kept me entertained for part of an afternoon!
(Okay, she made me by saying, "Well, I liked it." But she said it in a very coercive way, trust me.) And I did like this better than the last two books I read by Notaro.
Notaro's twenties looked just like my early teens: stupid.
(Like, a great desire to shriek, "STOP BEING STUPID.") It really helped, though, that this was not the first book of hers I read; I knew while I was reading this that she also grew up.
Which is the book that got me reading her in the first place.
And I'm really, really, truly done with Laurie Notaro now.
It doesn't even seem like Laurie has set out to make her life interesting; cool things just fall into her lap.
I think to any other reader, they'd really enjoy Laurie's stories and what witty commentary she has to share about everyday life.
Overall, all of the stories in this book were funny and fresh, just what a girl needs to read when she's feeling a little down in life.
This was a pretty quick read and I'm really excited to see what else Laurie has to share in her other books!
I understand that.Still, there was something about her tone throughout most of the book that grated on my nerves at times.
She seemed like the lazy, whiny relative that just WON'T GO AWAY.
There were times that I laughed, for sure.
Quit whining and DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT!!" I honestly felt like I was reading something by any number of annoying relatives that you hope never find out your address, phone number, Facebook name...just...stay over there, please?
I mean, there are times when it takes a book or two to get used to the way someone writes.
Laurie Notaro is one of those self printing success stories.
The success of her book caught the eye Random House who offered her a two book deal.
She now has seven books.The Idiot Girls' Action-Adventure Club is Laurie Notaro's first book with Random House.
I don't know because I didn't see any in the book.My favorite chapter from this mediocre book is "Dead in a Box." It covers Laurie's cleaning binge of the "scary room." A roommate had left the ashes of a departed loved one in a box under a bed.
Then the roommate had left and forgotten the box.
This woman deserves a medal for this book. There were moemnts on the subway that I was trying to surpress my laughter, snorting, crying, while still trying to breathe that everyone in the train car was watching me like i'm having an epilieptic fit. It was worth every embarrasing thing they must have been thinking about me, to have read this book. While the chapters in the middle were much funnier than the ones at the end- I still didn't feel like the book went out with a whimper. Worth every penny (and then some) that I paid for it.
This book had me laughing so hard, I actually woke up my roommate thinking I was sobbing! The author does a great job of telling a hysterical story about life on the edge of counter-culture- joking about the substance-abuse problems of close friends, hiding cigarettes from the trainers at the gym and loser pot-head ex-boyfriends. She also has a way of making real-life situations (getting a flat tire on the highway, stretching out too-tight jeans) seem humorous. While it may not be for everyone, I love her writing/story-telling style.

