https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144925.Muhammad
i had read 3 of similar books, one of those was written by karen amstrong. however, after reading this book, i found my love for Muhammad saw, he is my true love. while reading it, i felt so close to him. i cried on some chapters. i read this book within 3 days.
As the doctrine of original sin doesn’t exist in Islam, the life of the Prophet Muhammad (s.a.w.) is taken as the ultimate example of how everyday activities are sanctified.
(70) The function of the Qur'an and by extension its example in the life of Muhammad was to “re-awaken in man his primeval sense of wonderment which, with the passage of time had become dimmed or misdirected.” (71)Islam as a culmination and return is circular, unifying and universal.
Martin Lings cleverly describes the social, economic and political aspects of Makkah in the pre-islamic times before narrating the life of Prophet Muhammed(PBUH).It really helps the reader to understand the people of its age.
Whether you are Muslim, Christian, Jew, Hindu, agnostic, atheist or spiritual without associating with any organised religion; you can learn the following from the life of the Prophet(PBUH).1.) Simple Living.2.) Know your self.3.) Improve yourself all your life.4.) Be Compassionate.5.) Each must contribute to the society.6.) Being kind.
However for others it will help to understand the Prophet's life as it describes his life in great detail.
Those rivals included Hind, a woman who was a stern critic of Islam and who had eaten the liver of a dead companion of Muhammad.However, don't forget to remember the acts of barbarity committed by him: the exiles of Jews, followed by the massacre of all the men of an entire tribe named the Banu Qurayza; the way he and his companions divided up the women between them, as if they were mere objects; the words he had spoken in favor of military actions against nonbelievers; his insatiable thirst for wives; his even greater insatiable thirst for power and grandiose; his behavior which resembled that of a violent cult leader; his actions towards the Jews, Christians, and the Arab pagans; the Quranic revelations, which on more than one occasion seemed to you to be giving Muhammad exactly what he would want if he was acting out of purely political and economical interests; and finally, his marriage with Aisha when she was six years old.
Best book I've ever read in English about the life of the Beloved Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. Based in the earliest classical sources, yet written in beautiful and fluid English. To compliment it, listen to Hamza Yusuf's seerah tapes!
I've had this book 3 times and each time it winds up going to live at someone else's house.That's how good it is!
Martin Ling's biography of the Prophet Muhammad, based on the earliest available sources, is a masterpiece of engaging writing on a immense topic, and he carries it off beautifully. From his birth and early life to his first marriage and the vision in the cave of the angel Gabrial, who ordered him to "recite," the Koran, this enthralling life is the best work on the subject so far. I loved it, and reread it often. Highly recommended to all who wish to know what Islam is about.
buku yang sangat menawan dan komprehensif mengenai utusan Allah bernama Muhammad.tapi hal yang paling berguna buat saya, adalah penjelasan buku ini atas mengapa bangsa Quraisy, terutama yang berasal dari kalangan terpandang, enggan menerima Islam. waktu kecil dulu sepertinya kita bisanya cuma melabeli mereka, dengan jahat, bengis, kejam dsb. Tanpa menyadari ada banyak hal yang membuat mereka tidak mau menerima Islam dan memusuhi Muhammad dan para pengikutnya. Mungkin tetap tidak bisa bisa dibenarkan sikap seperti itu, tapi saya jadi lebih bisa memahaminya. :-)
what a great man Muhammad SAW was and how if people put their egos and prejudices aside they would discover the same..that he truly came as a mercy to makind.
I will instead provide you with a separate light to understand this book.Muhammad began his prophetic mission at the age of 40.
If you read other books in Islamic history, especially those of Western scholarship, you will notice that the history before Muhammad's mission is vague at best.
Martin Ling overlooks this fact and instead presents you with plenty of fanciful stories regarding Muhammad during his early years.
I do not recommend this book to readers if they want to learn about Muhammad and the history of Islam.
In comparison, Martin Ling's book is a book of miracles and fantasies that will confuse a Western reader and have them dismiss Muhammad altogether.
The thing with the Muslims writer in general is that when they start writing about the life and deeds of the Prophet they are so much in awe of the personality that they can barely portray him as a normal human being.
That feeling of being in awe of the person is completely missing, and all for good.
Even the miracles performed by the Prophet has been written in such simplicity that those seems to be the normal thing!If there has ever been a book written about the Prophet to read at ease, it is this one!
(The Qur'an, 33:56) Verily God and His Angels whelm in blessings the prophet. O ye who believe, invoke blessings upon him, and give him greetings of peace. This is exactly what I was looking for: no-nonsense, non-compromising, purely Islamic biography of Muhammad. I abhor Islamic Modernism; Martin Lings has not a single trace of it.Mind you, this book does not treat Muhammad or anyone or anything else objectively. Martin Lings does not even try. If I started about controversial fact-claims, I w
This is exactly what I was looking for: no-nonsense, non-compromising, purely Islamic biography of Muhammad.
I abhor Islamic Modernism; Martin Lings has not a single trace of it.Mind you, this book does not treat Muhammad or anyone or anything else objectively.
Martin Lings does not even try.
Muhammad is written from a devout Muslim's perspective, and that is how it is supposed to be read.
The goal is to introduce a non-Muslim to this perspective at least as much as it is to introduce them to the prophet's life.This rating does not reflect my opinions on Muhammad, though.
Mungkin itu salah satunya yang membuat lama menyelesaikan bacaan ini.Setelah selesai membaca buku ini, saya baru menyadari ternyata banyak sekali yang selama ini belum saya ketahui tentang Nabi Muhammad SAW, hingga membuat saya berpikir mengapa tidak dari dulu saya membaca buku tentang biography beliau.
Sejak kanak-kanak di sekolah dasar hingga perguruan tinggi, kita telah diajarkan tentang Pendidikan Agama Islam, namun itu hanya sedikit saja kisah yang diberikan sehingga membaca buku ini membuat saya mendapat pengetahuan yang banyak tentang riwayat hidup beliau.Membaca buku ini membuat saya merasa dekat dengan Nabi Muhammad SAW, dimana mengingatkan sejarah dan perjuangan beliau.
در مورد این کتاب میتونم بگم: "داستانی ترین کتاب مستند" یا "مستندترین کتاب داستانی" درباره زندگی پیامبر اسلام.مارتین لینگز یک سنت گرای مسلمان شده است که این کتاب رو بر اساس مستندات دقیق تاریخی نوشته.
ممکنه بعضی موارد مثل معجزات و کرامات پیامبر به مذاق خواننده امروزی خیلی خوش نیاد ولی همه این روایات تاریخی و مستند هستن و بخشی از معرفت ما نسبت به شخصیت و زندگی پیامبر اسلام رو تشکیل میدن.مهمترین ویژگی این کتاب که باعث جذابیتش هم میشه، روایت زندگی پیامبر با تمی داستان گونه است که البته این موضوع سبب گفتن مطالب خلاف واقع نشده و نویسنده به فکتهای تاریخی پایبند مونده.من خودم بعد خوندن این کتاب بیش از هر وقتی حس کردم پیامبر هم یک انسان بوده.
نزدیک به ما و کنار ما.
the best epic biography i've ever read but there's no word can descibe how great Muhammad is,,,
Now, Lings...has produced a superb narrative that, in its sobriety and dignity of style and its scrupulous and exhaustive fidelity to authentic and reliable sources constitutes a major addition to Islamic literature in English.
Martin Lings took an English degree at Oxford and later lectured at Cairo University, mainly on Shakespeare, for twenty years.
In 1977, he went to Mecca at the invitation of King Abd al-Aziz University to participate in the Conference on Islamic Education.In addition to his three works on Islamic mysticism, which have been published in many languages, he is the author of The Secret of Shakespeare, Ancient Belief and Modern Superstition, and the splendidly illustrated Quranic Art of Calligraphy and illumination.
Abu Bakr Siraj Ad-Din (Martin Lings) was a Muslim convert.
Therefore, it must be understood that his rendering of the Prophet's (PBUH) narrative was a work of piety, and not necessarily one of historical scholarship.
For Muslims, the book is an eloquently written narrative of the Prophet(PBUH) which provides chronology and context for the revelation of the the Holy Qur'an and the several important hadiths.
In the end it might not be so important that this or that prophet did not actually do something that religious traditions mention.
Kisah Nabi Muhammad SAW dari Martin lings ini paling enak dibaca diantara buku-buku sejenis lainnya.
Kisah-kisahnya mungkin sudah banyak diceritakan tapi di sini lebih terstruktur dan komprehensif, kita bisa mengetahui awal dan sebab turunnya suatu ayat, juga diperkenalkan dengan karakter suku-suku di Arab terutama suku Quraish.Bahasanya ringan dan gaya berceritanya seperti membaca kumpulan cerita jadi tidak membosankan , hanya nama-nama suku dan keturunan yang agak susah untuk diingat .
Seingat saya ini sirah Nabi yang paling lengkap yang saya baca.Membaca buku ini kita dapat merasa lebih dekat dengan Nabi Muhammad SAW, menyegarkan kita untuk mengingat sejarah dan perjuangan beliau.Shalawat dan salam untukmu yaa Rasulullah...
What i liked most is that this book flows easily and reads like a novel.
Its an excellent book for Muslims, but i wouldn't say its a good introductory book for non-muslims who know very little about Islam or have misconceptions, as i found this book didn't give much focus on the teachings of Islam but tends to focus more on the battles which took place to defend the muslims against attacking armies.
I also felt sometimes a bit more context was needed for these battles.My only other small issue would be with the archaic English translations of the quran and speech between individuals.
Anlatım tarzı ve duyduğu saygıyı ifade edis şekli güzeldi.Yazarın müslüman olması ve bunu yazması çok güzel hele ki ödül aldigini da düşününce...Ama beni en cok etkileyen şey bir Ingiliz gibi yazmış olmasına rağmen değerini yakalamayı bilmiş olmasıdır. Şöyle ki eğer abartarak anlatsaydi ya da eksikliğinden emin okunmayan herşeyi kitaba alsaydı disiplinli ve iddialarını bir dayanak olmadan kabul etmeyen bir millete en güzel şekilde kendi düşüncelerine uygun olarak aslinida kaybetmeden anlatmış olmasıdır. Inş onlsrda da etki eder.
Love knowing more about the prophet. Martin Lings did a great job in connecting the different puzzles together. The book requires some focus in the beginning as the reader will encounter many characters but then it will be easy once you have focused already.I read the first 24% and the remaining I listened to the audio book version which can be found here for free:http://www.kalamullah.com/muhammad-au...
Surprisingly an extremely easy read. I enjoyed it very much. The first book that made me feel as if I really know the Prophet. I love the war chapters. Though very detailed, it made me feel as if I was there witnesssing them. BTW, I thought the discription of the Battle of Badr is a little mythtical in parts.

This book took me on a journey, I really wanted to go on. It was an amazing read. Loved it!
I did little else for the past 2 days but read this, and I regret it not one bit.
It is too boring and I could not force myself to finish it at least for now:(
Bazı yerlerde biraz ikileme düştüm ama araştıracağım. ve kesinlikle bir kez daha okunacak bir kitap. yabancıların Müslümanlığı bizden daha iyi anlamaları okuyup araştırmaktan ileri geliyor. darısı başımıza...
FINALLY AFTER MORE THAN A YEAR!I will not review the story, since I believe this book has going through deep exploration of facts from classic sources (hey, it is the best Prophet SAW biography according to National Seerat Conference!). So, here's the thing I have learned from this book so far: The family tree of Arabians is very messed up!!  Uncles married to nieces, man married to many women, whose child is he, and so on. It would be nice if there is a detailed family tree for Prophet SAW and
FINALLY AFTER MORE THAN A YEAR!I will not review the story, since I believe this book has going through deep exploration of facts from classic sources (hey, it is the best Prophet SAW biography according to National Seerat Conference!).
For Indonesian children, it is taught that every women in Prophet's life has "Siti".
But several people told me that "Siti" is actually from "Sayyidati", a honorific name like "Lady" in the West.
Overall, anyone who is interested in Prophet Muhammad SAW's life should read this very detailed book.

Sometimes inspirational, sometimes perplexing, Muhammad: His Life Based on the Earliest Sources is, at the least, a challenging read.
Anyone unwilling to read a pious biography of the Islamic prophet will simply not be able to read it but others may find the book gives a good window into a Muslim perspective of the prophet and that's probably where it is most successful.
I am not sure, however, I recommend this to those with strong reservations against Islam as they undoubtedly would not be able to get past the tone of the narrative, let alone its contents, which will always be challenging to the Western reader.
