https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24378015-never-never
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED ::: SPOILER-FREE ::: WOW!! What an amazing, unique story!!Never Never was fast-paced, thrilling, mysterious, exciting, romantic, and kept me guessing the whole way though. I literally could not put it down and I can't wait for the next book in this fantastic new series!!!  Best friends since they could walk.In love since the age of fourteen.Complete strangers since this morning.He'll do anything to remember.She'll do anything to forget.  This is the first book of a se
Colleen wrote the guy's POV, Tarryn wrote the girl's, and the two halves of the story were blended together seamlessly.This is going to be a shorter review because my honest opinion is that it's best to go into this book knowing as little as possible about the actual story so I won't tell you anything that'll ruin the experience here.
don't wait to start this series -- just dive right in!There's a reason we've come to love Colleen and Tarryn's writing.
There are some books on Goodreads that you can feel uncomfortable writing a negative review for because of how many of your friends loved it or people in general, but I’m not going to let this one be one of them.
Yes for the former: I am indeed freaking out at how much I disliked this but never in a million years would I come to love this short story (ugh, it even hurts to call it that.) Alright, so you’re probably wondering about the characters now.
Often in the book, Silas says how he doesn’t like what Charlie does with a voice that implies more ‘‘I dislike this chick.’’ than ‘‘I’m deeply in love with this beautiful girl.’’ Also, this:
I've said in my past (negative) reviews that I like Hoover's easy-to-digest style of writing that demands you turn the pages.
Do they even want to find out?Romance does come out when Charlie and Silas are trying to figure out the details of their relationship - as well as many skeletons in the closet - but unlike Hoover's other works, this story feels like so much more than a romance.
Me while reading this book:
4 Mind-F*ck Stars.I will not tell you much about this, because in this kind of books, the more blind you go in, the better.
So let me tell you my reaction during pretty much the whole length of this book: Charlie and Silas woke up one morning without remembering anything or anyone.
When I first heard about a book written by Colleen and Tarryn together I thought: “That has to be the stupidest idea ever.” How can you put together the woman who wrote Slammed and the woman who wrote Mud Vain and expect it to work?
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[Well, they technically cheated on each other in the past.
(hide spoiler)]HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Cliffhanger.
4 Never stop. Never forget. stars! Colleen Hoover. Tarryn Fisher. Two authors I love. Two distinctly different writing styles. Somehow, these two authors were able to collaborate and blend their styles together and Never Never was born. It’s one of those books that you finish and think... what the hell did I just read? Which didn’t surprise me. That’s happened with every Tarryn book I’ve read.Charlie and Silas are in high school. Apparently they’re popular and they’re boyfriend and girlfriend. T
Never forget.
That’s happened with every Tarryn book I’ve read.Charlie and Silas are in high school.
Forgetting is scary.
I didn’t have to know who wrote which pov.
Silas had Colleen written all over him.
I want to remember what it feels like to love someone like that.
I want to know what it feels like to love Charlie.”
Once again, it didn’t surprise me that Tarryn wrote her.
Never Never was a short book, and once I start reading I couldn’t put it down.
I know I’ll have to do a re-read before the next book is out!
I had seen plenty of bad reviews for this series, but I am always looking for quick audiobooks that I can finish between other, "deeper" audiobook selections.
I ended up reading all three books back to back, because I couldn't pull myself away until I knew what happened.The story is centered on two high school sweethearts, Charlie and Silas.
She is introduced to her boyfriend, Silas, but has no recollection of him either.After spending the day together, Charlie figures out that she isn't the only one faking it.
If you're like me, you'll want to finish the series immediately.
I started the second book immediately after finishing Part I.
4.5 Stars Never Never is exceptionally written and unforgettable. An original story, that has left me with tons of unanswered questions, and desperate for more. Gah. That ending!!! The wait is going to kill me! Hopefully it won't be too long... ((May 17th))A Colleen and Taryn collaboration?!?! Eeek!
Me after reading the first chapter:Me after reading the last page:And let it be known that there is this HUGE cliffy at the end of this one that can rival against that cliffy in Nocte <-- yeah remember THAT gigantic cliffy where you'd want to hunt down the author and hold her at gunpoint to reveal the answers we need?!
All I can say so far that it's like a mix of second chance romance where the MCs get to start off with a clean slate again or reading a romance story backwards since they were lovers prior to them suffering a bad case of amnesia (or so it seems).
3 stars!   First off I'd like to reiterate that  just because I rate a book 3 stars doesn't mean it wasn't good.  It just means I didn't love it. I liked this book, I did. I just wish I had waited to read this until the 2nd book was released. Because this book ends on a  CLIFFHANGER!!!!!!!!I don't want to give anything away, so in the tradition of the lovely  Kat Stark , this is my (mini) unconventional review. My thoughts while I was reading this book: -"Hmm, Tarryn Fisher really has a thing f
First off I'd like to reiterate that  just because I rate a book 3 stars doesn't mean it wasn't good.
My thoughts while I was reading this book: -"Hmm, Tarryn Fisher really has a thing for amnesia."-"Damn, this book reminds me a lot of Don't Look Back by Jennifer Armentrout just with 2 people and not 1 person."-"OMG CoHo soooooooooooo wrote that part."-"Why are they so focused on kissing each other rather than figuring out what's happening to them?
A penis!"I will say that despite there being a cliffy (which I expected) it was a DAMN GOOD cliffy.So overall, I like the concept but I wish this book had been more than 140 pages.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/My reaction upon finishing????? Never Never has earned it’s 1 Star for one reason and one reason alone - IT’S NOT A BOOK! And before anyone goes all Sassy Troll on me, I’mma beat you to the punch and say NOPE – IT’S NOT A NOVELLA EITHER. It is a third of a book. It’s the equivalent of going to your local bookstore, picking a 300 page book off the shelf, ripping the first 100 or so pages out, reading only that portion of the story, and
It’s the equivalent of going to your local bookstore, picking a 300 page book off the shelf, ripping the first 100 or so pages out, reading only that portion of the story, and having the clerk tell you the next 100 pages won't be available for you to read for another 5 months .
I’ve read a couple of CoHo books, so upon starting I figured it would be something like this .
(hide spoiler)]Charlie was your typical New Adult female MC .
Not to mention all the superfans (many who are young girls spending their allowance) who will be dropping THREE TIMES the price they normally do in order to read what is really one book .
First of all, it should have been announced that this would be a serial novel and not series or standalone.Second, this premise is nothing new or original or special or that shocking.
Two pages later - they do remember some things.
In the story with a premise that DOESN'T NEED THOSE!
Fourth, I got a feeling that this whole thing was written because both authors knew it would bring them a lot of attention and possibly money and high sales rank.
I'm disappointed and I need break from both CoHo and Tarryn Fisher because I'm just annoyed now.
FREE  -> http://amzn.to/1x0G6BF5/4/2015IS THIS REAL LIFE?!?!?!?!Is this really happening? CoHo & Tarryn writing a book together?!?!
WHAT JUST HAPPENED WHERE IS THE NEXT BOOK
The characters were awesome, specially Silas, I'm in love with him already.
The things we found out in the first book left me with my mouth hanging open!
Ughhh, I want to slap Silas and Charlie, I want to know why they did those horrible things!
I think it's because I was able to put myself in the place of the main characters and I felt what Silas was feeling in that moment with the letters, I was so confused and worried and with a hole in my heart!
Stupid, stupid cliffhanger.But AWESOME, awesome book!
This mystery is like the second chance to be better people than they used to be or so I hope would be the direction of the story.I find it very amusing when the characters were trying to resolve the mystery to their situation by referring to popular fairytales.
I think this is the main thing that ruined the story- the choice of characters.I wasn’t really that surprised at the cliffy because I expected there was going to be a major one, thanks to spoilers.
A chilling, captivating thriller.Hoover and Fisher have combined their unique talents to deliver a deliciously twisted tale of deceit, love and friendship that keeps you guessing long after the heart-stopping end.Check your preconceptions at the door, readers.
The girl I apparently still love.
I won’t divulge too much information, as it’s best to experience this story blindly, but I’ll share that their tale is twisted and unusual.
And these truths… they’re mere glimpses of what’s to come and it makes the story feel more sinister.The story moves quickly and concludes with a totally heart-stopping, leave-me-breathless, oh-my-godding kind of ending.
4.5 Stars ~  ”What does Never Never mean?” Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher collaborated on this book/series with a mysterious storyline of two high school teens who wake up in history class without a clue of who/where they are and why they have lost their memories. ”I’m starting to not like who we are, Silas. You’re a rich kid who’s a dick to your housekeeper. I’m a mean teenager with absolutely no personality who takes selfies to make herself feel more important.” As the story progresses throu
Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher collaborated on this book/series with a mysterious storyline of two high school teens who wake up in history class without a clue of who/where they are and why they have lost their memories.
I’m a mean teenager with absolutely no personality who takes selfies to make herself feel more important.”
As the story progresses through dual povs of Charlie and Silas we find that they have been long time family friends, boyfriend/girlfriend with one another for most their lives and their families are connected.
To my disappointment this is a pretty short story that left me still not sure where the story is going and what the future holds for Silas and Charlie.
I honestly think everyone is so far up Colleen Hoover's ass that they can't recognise terrible writing for what it is. ___________________________________Just realised that Colleen liked this and I can't stop laughing.
So the story...starts off with Charlie not being able to remember a thing about herself...right in the middle of the day!
Yeah, like that.) Luckily, she's in the same class with Silas who's going through the exact same thing and of course, he's her boyfriend.
;) Thankfully, we get both their POVs. It was interesting to see their feelings come out and how they reacted to things in the past.Question everything....or just go with the flow.
The one thing I know for sure...I would take Silas as a boyfriend any day...memory or not.
We are so in love, Charlie.
I NEED THE NEXT BOOK!!!!
6 STARS Genre: YA/NA Crossover – romance & mystery.Cover: 9/10 Writing: 10/10Heroine: 8/10Hero: 10/10Humour: 5/10Hotness: 2/10Romance: 8/10Extra book Details: Heroine & Hero POV; 1st person. Approx 150 Kindle pages. Not a stand-alone.6 stars because... I couldn't put it down. I laughed. I loved the story, the writing, the mystery, the romance, the plot, the characters. I wouldn't change a thing. And I want to read it all over again already.- - - - - - -Very mild spoilers for the book bl
I loved the story, the writing, the mystery, the romance, the plot, the characters.
And I want to read it all over again already.- - - - - - -Very mild spoilers for the book blurb ahead- - - - - - -Never Never is about 18 year old Silas & 17 year old Charlie, forgetting who they are & everyone else in the process, in the middle of a school day.What ensues is all about them finding out who they were in their 'past lives' and trying to find clues to the mystery of their missing memories.
Like I said, I have a Love/Hate relationship with serials.
They do not know who they are and why they both lost their memories.It was fast because I HAD NO CLUE TO WHAT WAS GOING ON, it was kind of slow because the characters had no clue to what was going on and as they were putting the pieces together, I felt like it just needed the pace to pick up (JUST A TINY BIT).
Anyhow, if you are like me and was a bit hesitant because you didn’t like Ugly Love, or The Opportunist, well you will not be disappointed with Never Never.
4 stars Had I known there would be a cliffy I probably wouldn't have picked this up but I'm so glad I did because I found the story interesting and original. So it was a bit on the unbelieveable side but Silas and Charlie were so cute together and that's the main thing that matters to me.I would recommend for those who likeCute romanceA bit of mystery/suspenseNew adult with a twistFans of CoHo & TFUnforgettable plot
FREE on Amazon US today (6/23/2016)Lookie what is FREEEEE! Part 1 of 3. Serial complete.BLURB:Best friends since they could walk. In love since the age of fourteen.Complete strangers since this morning.He'll do anything to remember. She'll do anything to forget.FREE: https://www.amazon.com/Never-Part-One... FREEBIES are often good for MORE than one day, I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 500 books)https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...
Honestly for the first 50%b I didn’t enjoy it, I know the authors kept all for the last BOOM but I cannot ignore the fact that I was bored to death with two people who are trying to remember their lives.
My theory about what happen in a fuzzy way.(view spoiler)[First concerning the cheating that Silas is sleeping with someone and Charlie is sleeping with another guy, I think that this was all a pretense because they needed to show that they were no longer on love because of their father’s rivalry.
I didn’t expect their talents to match each other word for word.
Why won’t the 5th dentist just cave and say he recommends Colgate too, and why is Wal-Mart taking over the world?I don’t understand it, and I didn’t expect it.
There were certain scenes where the love was so achingly intense, but not in an obvious way.
Keep in mind that the plot centers on time.
You find out the limitations of why certain things couldn’t have been developed more, even at times I wished for the “more”, but consider the plot.
DNF @ 40%This is annoying the shit out of me. Maybe i'll come back to it in the future.
It's hard to write a review for this book because honestly I have no clue what happened in the book lol.
Just when things were starting to fall into place - boom it ended in a huge cliffy.Charlie and Silas, who have know each and been in love almost their entire lives, seem to wake up at school with no memory of their past lives, not even each other.
They spend the book searching for clues of who they are and what happened to them.
They meet their families for the "frist time" and learn that there maybe things they want to forget about their lives.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest💙 I read this for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2018 Reading Challenge, for the category of: Young Adult Romance. For more info on this challenge, click here. 💙I love weekends. You know why? They give me the perfect excuse to clean out my Kindle. I think I must have finished about eight books this weekend, and I feel so proud of myself. One of those books finished was NEVER NEVER. I've been on a Tarryn Fisher binge, because I
I've been on a Tarryn Fisher binge, because I really like her style and you never really know what you're going to get with one of her books.
They're one of my favorite cracky tropes.As I said, I like Tarryn Fisher, but I'm more ambivalent about Colleen Hoover.
If NEVER NEVER feels short, it isn't your imagination; it's under 200 pages, and by the time you finish the book you don't really know anything more about the mystery behind these characters than you did at the beginning.
It's actually my least favorite Tarryn Fisher book I've read so far, although it's fine for a CoHo (I expect better from Fisher).
