https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8337.Little_House_in_the_Big_Woods
In attempting the perfectly noble task of getting young boys to read more, Scieszka has continuously heaped scorn on that book, banishing it to the girl ghetto of the Sweet Valley High and American Girls series.
Putting aside the unfair comparison to syndicate titles published for purely commercial reasons, his assesment of Little House as a book purely for girls is infuriating.For one thing, gender-segregated reading rubs me the wrong way.
For another thing, these books contain aspects that any child might enjoy.
Ignore the sugary-sweet, insipid television series - these books are genuine and engaging.
Every time I go back to this story, I am just as enraptured and enthralled  as I was when I was a little girl.
Laura Ingalls and her family (Ma, Pa, Mary and baby Carrie) live in a little house in the big woods of Wisconsin.
The little tales from Pa brings this book to life and Ma's gentle nurturing firmly holds together the family.
Every time I read this series, I think about my own family.
Paul gave life to Pa's songs and Cherry truly made this audiobook a masterpiece.
As I am always on the lookout for quality children's books, I spent a few hours rereading the beginning of a series that I had enjoyed when I was my daughters' age.
Little House in the Big Woods begins the classic children's saga that follows Laura Ingalls Wilder on her journey from childhood to marriage.
Even an adult can benefit from viewing color illustrations as they can once again become captivated by a series they read as children.
I am glad my daughters have discovered this series as we can share our memories of it as they continue Laura and her family's journey through life.
The Little House on the Prairie books bring back so many good memories.
There are so many books that I would love to re-read.
Little House in the Big Woods is the first book of the series and will always be my favorite, but I did enjoy all of the books in the collection.
Sitting on my bed next to her watching as she read.
If I can't find my old books I will definitley buy another collection as I would love to re-read them at some point.
An interesting interpretation of what life was like in 1871. There is discussion of what life was like with absolutely no technology. This is a book children would definitely warm to more than an adult, in my opinion.
I've read both and liked both; this volume being a wonderful introduction to Laura and the Ingalls familly.
I didn't read this series as a child, but as an adult I've come to appreciate it's beauty, and it's importance in the canon of American Children's Literature.
Some may say this is too simple for adults to appreciate, and starting out it seems that way, but the more you read the more you realize that Ingall's style is perfect for this type of story.
I'm glad I started the series and I look forward to reading more.Revised January 2018.
Reading this to my daughter has helped me rediscover the joy of the Little House series all over again. Probably the best gift this little book has to offer is that of perspective. How blessed but complicated our lives seem now. How very different and yet the same. I loved sharing a slice of history with my child who has no concept of life before dvr's, minivans, and microwaves. That a child could be happy with a corncob doll was a unique thought. This series should be on the reading list for every mother.
And he seems like a pretty good guy.Brontë: Interesting.
Did you think I'd like someone else?Brontë: I thought you'd say Laura, but my second favourite was Pa. Pa: So we're reversed.Brontë: Yeah.
Pa: That's something else I loved, the art.Brontë: Oh yeah, the art was beautiful.Pa: But Laura's writing was even more beautiful.
Pa: It's cool when you read a book like that.Brontë: And then I could look at the pictures and think, that's what the boys and girls look like and watch it in my head as I read.
Pa: I think I could see what they looked like even without the pictures.
I was obsessed with the Litte House books and the TV show when I was a child.
I think I began reading and re-reading the books in second grade.
This time around I listened to it on audio, and it was my first time "reading" the book as an adult.
I have to admit, I think this book may have played a big part in my choice to be a vegetarian at a young age!
That said, the book will always hold a special place in my reading heart, and I hope to re-read and/or listen to all of the books in the series again.
No plot, but still an addictive story of a life style both idyllic and boring as hell. And torturous Sundays!
It shares a philosophy with Walden - along with two other sortof less-great things.The first is a hopeless lack of plot, and that frustrated me when I first read it.
(Some of the Little House books have more plot than others.)The second thing Little House shares with Walden is that it's bullshit.
That's the only truly oh-shit content.- Weaving straw hats- Old-time candy - if there is a plot, it's that Laura Ingalls Wilder has a sweet tooth; this book is basically about candy- Leaving babies in a pile on a bed while everyone does square dancing- Extremely specific gender rolesIt's pleasant enough to read, if a little boring.
The first book in the "Little House" series introduces readers to Laura Ingalls, her Ma &Pa, and sisters, Mary and Carrie living in their log home in the "big woods" of Wisconsin.
The thirteen chapters in this book serve as vignettes of what life was like for settler families, the roles and responsibilities of each family member, the customs and teachings that had such an impact on a little girl and shape her to be a grown woman.
I always felt a connection to Laura Ingalls right down to her brown hair.
ঘুম থেকে উঠছি, দাঁত মাঝছি, নাসতা খাচছি, পুতুল নিয়ে খেলছি, ঘরের কাজ করছি, খাবার দাবার খাচছি, গা ধুয়ে ফের ঘুমুতে যাচছি। এটা একটা গলপ হলো? বডড একঘেয়ে হয়ে যাবেনা শুধু এসমসত বরণনা করে বিশাল একটা গলপ ফেঁদে বসলে? সাধারণ জঞান তাই বলছিল কিনতু শেষতক তা হয়ে উঠলো না। কেন? কারণ এগুলো কে বলছে তাও তো দেখা লাগবে , নাকি? লরার গলপ তার ছোটট বাড়িটা আর সেখানে তার সারাদিনের খুঁটিনাটি নিয়ে। তার সাথে আছে তার দুই বোন , মা এবং পা! পা কিনতু খুব সাহসী। একটুও বসে থাকেনা। এই শিকারে বের হচছে, এই ধান মাড়াই নিয়ে হুড়োহুড়ি লাগাচছ
লরা আর মেরিকেও সাথে সাথে দৌড়তে হচ্ছে। তবে সব একটু সাবধানে। কারণ তাদের ছোট বাড়িটা এক বিশাল বড় বনের পাশে। সেখানে রাতে নেকড়ে বের হয়, ভালুক থাকে এমনকি জাগুয়ার পর্যন্ত দেখা যায়। হরিণ এসে বাড়ির পাশের বাগানের গাছপালাও খেয়ে যায় মাঝে মাঝে।এই যে এত ব্যাস্ততা, তার মধ্যেও পোষা কুকুর জ্যাককে নিয়ে ঠিক খেলতে বের হয়ে যায় দুই বোন। তিন নম্বরটি কোলের তাই এখনও সঙ্গী হয়নি তাদের। ঋতু ঘুরে ঘুরে আসে। বরফ পরে। ছুটির দিনগুলোতে দাদাবাড়িতে বেরাতে যাওয়া, দাদীমার হাতের মেপলের রস খাওয়া সেত আরেক উৎসব। পা কিন্তু বেশ রসিয়ে রসিয়ে এই মেপল সিরা সংগ্রহ , দাদুর ছোটবেলার গল্প বা নিজের পিটুনি খাওয়ার গল্প গুলো করে প্রায় সন্ধায়। এই যে একঘেয়ে হবার কথা থাকা সত্ত্বেও গল্পটা মন ছুঁলো কেন জানেন?
In third grade, we were all told to read these books, but Harry Potter had just come out.
But back to Laura Ingalls...This book is perfect for teaching any child what life was like in the late 1800's, living in the woods trying to survive.
There is no "plot" really, and you really could have read any chapter at any time in any order.
Life in the big woods is great, but I needed something a bit more to the story.I truly expected to fly through this one, but it dragged on a bit too much for me.

She looked at Pa sitting on the bench by the hearth, the firelight gleaming on his brown hair and beard and glistening on the honey-brown fiddle.
She looked at Ma, gently rocking and knitting.She thought to herself, “This is now.”She was glad that the cosy house, and Pa and Ma and the firelight and the music, were now.
Never once read it without tears.
This morning my student said, "Miss Cindy, are you crying?" I was supposed to finish the book on Tuesday but it was a rough day for me because of my dad and so I knew better than to read the last chapter on that day.
This might be my favorite book of all time.
It's certainly one of the first I remember reading as a child, and it's always been an enormous source of comfort.
I tried to find the other edition I have (I've got the first edition minus its dust jacket, along with the paperback set of the series), but no luck on here unfortunately.
I treasure all of my books, and the Little House/Rocky Ridge series(es) in particular, but this may be the best of them.
This is the one where I find myself quoting as I read, because lines have stuck with me for the last twenty-ish years.
It just isn't possible for me to be objective about the Little House books. They were THE go to books for me as a child, and the comfort books as a teenager. This one is certainly written at a younger level, but I still loved reading about all of the work it took to run a farm - from making butter and cheese and straw hats, etc. Boy do I take a lot for granted. Anyway, I enjoyed it yet again! Perfect finals week comfort-reading :)
Ahhhh.... lovely memories come with this series of books!
In the past few months, I’ve developed a bit of an obsession with the television show Little House on the Prairie.
It’s something I’ve seen bits and pieces of throughout my life, as there were always reruns playing on some channel.
Since I love the television series and said series is based on a famous series of books, I obviously need to read them, right?This first book was absolutely adorable.
There isn’t much plot, but the descriptions are vivid and very engaging, which is exactly what young children will enjoy about the book.
I’m not a young child, so did I enjoy this book?
I did a wonderful year-long read aloud with my kindergarten class last year, and it was a fantastic experience.
Part of the reason this worked well for my kindergarten kids--in spite of their limited experience with Wisconsin and woods and wagons and farms--is that they, too, were only 5 or 6 years old.
Since I am a reader and reading specialist more than a kindergarten teacher, I used this book to begin a lot of wonderful deeper comprehension work.
By the end of the book (and a year with other wonderful read-alouds), they were using vocabulary like "connection" and "prediction" when talking about what they thought about stories.
This was very cute and quiet a bit longer than expected, but a fun and nice read overall.
Its just nice to see a book about very simple but lovely things.
About family and love and helping each other out, no added drama or sad moments that seem completely unnecessary.
its just a cute little story that is defiantly worth a read if you enjoy softer books that don't have a lot of things happening but what is happening is fun and entertaining and most of all lovely to read about.
I can completely understand the love and adoration so many people have when talking about this series!
this means that every time he sweetly explained away to young laura and mary why he'd failed to bring game home ("i just couldn't shoot the doe; it was so beautiful") or why the family needed to bravely and sweetly endure some other small privation i kept wondering whether he was maybe actually just routinely incompetent and laura was just too starry-eyed—or perhaps protective of her father's legacy—to be honest about it.also, recently while reading a critique of the Little House series, i was shocked to realize that Ma did indeed have a pretty ugly attitude about native americans.
I didn't usually like girly books when I was a kid, but this one was an exception. Her matter-of-fact descriptions of life in the Big Woods were just so fascinating! The fact that the main character was a girl seemed pretty irrelevant.Beth Ann and I have several times discussed writing a modern-day sequel entitled Little House in the Valley. Laura gets up early every morning to sort the spam and check the website. Then she squeezes orange juice and makes two big lattes for Daddy and his boyfriend...
They say you can't go home again, but if you're rereading a beloved children's book, I think you can. I have happy memories of reading the Laura Ingalls Wilder books with my mother, and revisiting these wonderful stories of Laura and Mary and Ma and Pa made me feel as cozy and loved as I did when I was a girl. I'm looking forward to rereading the entire series.
Read this book to my 3 yo son. He seemed to enjoy it. It good good descriptions and seemed to have good values that are things I would want to teach him too. Last time I read it was when I was in school .
Such a sweet, simple book! I loved this series when I was a kid, and it's so fun to go back and read them all over again now.
My annual re-read, this time with the lovely Heidi! :)
3.5 StarsAs an adult these are not as interesting. I can see how children would love them though! They are very informative of the past.
A reading challenge in a Goodreads group I participate in prompted me to read Little House in the Big Woods, and even though it was written for children, I still found it very enjoyable.
When I think about all the changes that Laura and others living in the same time period were able to see, it absolutely boggles my mind.
She went from living the life of a pioneer to almost being able to see the first rocket launched into space - Laura died in February and Sputnik was launched in October of the same year.
