https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18584855-heartless
I love this!!•There IS quite a bit of the goodness of Wonderland's nonsense.
There were talking animals and rhymes and a king with the brain capacity of a peanut, and of course the famed croquet with flamingos and mad hatter's tea party (!!!) so YAS for mad books.• I REALLY LIKE NONSENSE THAT IS BIZARRE AS LEWIS CARROLL'S ORIGINALS!!• Did I mention food?
The entire plot of Heartless is: a spineless whingey girl tries to avoid marrying the king but not by doing anything active, just by whining about it in her room a lot.
“These things do not happen in dreams, dear girl,” he said, vanishing up to his neck. “They happen only in nightmares.”His head spiralled and he was gone. This was so good. Meyer's writing and stories just seem to keep improving, and her latest foray into the world of Alice in Wonderland was exactly the right combination of prophecy, romance, Victorian-style female repression, and weirdness. It was unputdownable.Also: I really really want macarons right now.I mentioned this before, but I'm star
It was unputdownable.Also: I really really want macarons right now.I mentioned this before, but I'm starting to understand why I enjoy Meyer's retellings so much.
However, that's also just what it is - more inspiration than retelling.This book can be enjoyed whether you like the original or not.
It's perfectly weird without being too weird (to be honest, the original gives me a fond nostalgic feeling, but it's a bit too nonsensical for me).Heartless is about Catherine - daughter of a Marquess, talented baker, and likely future bride to the King of Hearts.
Cheshire’s yellow eyes slitted as he held her gaze for one beat, two. Then he began to unravel from the tip of his tail, a slow unwinding of his stripes. ‘These things do not happen in dreams, dear girl,’ he said, vanishing up to his neck. ‘They happen only in nightmares.’ Honestly, I didn't have high expectations for this book after reading the "...she was just a girl who wanted to fall in love" blurb. Fortunately, I was wrong. This book was great. Don't get me wrong, it was unexpectedly dark
Honestly, I didn't have high expectations for this book after reading the "...she was just a girl who wanted to fall in love" blurb.
Don't get me wrong, it was unexpectedly dark at some points, but it was also adowwwable because only a stone cold dead dying heart can resist the absolutely wuvable talking Cheshire Cat. Seriously, he was so cute.
And apparently I do not have a stone cold dead dying heart.
Talking animals and magic everywhere, yet so commonplace that it feels like home.The beginning of this book surprised me with its frothiness.
I HAVE BEEN TRYING TO FIND THE WHITE EDITION OF THIS BOOK TO GO WITH MY BLACK ONE AND WHAT A WONDERFUL SURPRISE TO FIND THAT IT CAME IN MY NOVEMBER OWL CRATE BOX!
Then Cath meets the wonderful Jest and has to figure out how she can love him and do what her parents and the King want at the same time.
I hope a lot of people will love this book as much as I did ♥MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List
I loved it even more the second time around!Original reading October 20164.5*I loved this, but I did have a couple of issues.
I was sent the audiobook to review (and do a giveaway on my channel soon!) from Macmillan so a big thank you to them!
My video review will be up soon but for now, my 2 main points are: this did a great job of capturing the atmosphere of the original Alice stories, but it was lacking in the fact that it was a bit slow.
❝Now mine eyes see the heart that once we did search for, and I fear this heart shall be mended, nevermore.❞  A big thanks to Macmillan and Fierce Reads for giving me the opportunity to snag a beautiful box and ARC of Heartless at YallWest!(Review will be posted once we are closer to release day)Heartless was beautifully tragic. I have no words to describe just how broken this book has left my heart.That ending... Ugh. HEARTBREAKING. FANS OF THE LUNAR CHRONICLES: Beware. You might have a new f
❝Now mine eyes see the heart that once we did search for, and I fear this heart shall be mended, nevermore.❞
  
A big thanks to Macmillan and Fierce Reads for giving me the opportunity to snag a beautiful box and ARC of Heartless at YallWest!(Review will be posted once we are closer to release day)Heartless was beautifully tragic. I have no words to describe just how broken this book has left my heart.That ending... Ugh. HEARTBREAKING.
  FANS OF THE LUNAR CHRONICLES:
Beware. You might have a new favorite coming soon. ;)
After all, Alice in Wonderland is my favorite book, Marissa Meyer one of my favorite authors.
Snore.Plus there’s a surprise appearance from the worst romantic cliché of all time: the you’re not like other girls appeal, made famous by the manic pixie dream girl character archetype and everything written by John Green.
Yes, the whole point of this book was to provide a backstory for the Queen of Hearts, letting the reader in on what happened to change her from ~normal chick~ (albeit not like other girls, lol) to total villain.
SourceThis review contains *spoilers* for the first half of this book.Heartless is an epic retelling of Alice in Wonderland, with the focus being on The Queen of Hearts.All Catherine wants is to be declared the office tart baker of the kingdom. She and her best friend, Mary Ann, dream of launching their very own bakery. Even their friendship hit it off upon discovering one another's mutual love for food:“One wouldn’t know it to look at Mary Ann, but she had an appetite to rival Cath’s own. The
SourceThis review contains *spoilers* for the first half of this book.Heartless is an epic retelling of Alice in Wonderland, with the focus being on The Queen of Hearts.All Catherine wants is to be declared the office tart baker of the kingdom.
She and her best friend, Mary Ann, dream of launching their very own bakery.
queens did not open bakeries with their best friends.
I REQUIRE THIS BOOK IN MY LIFE IMMEDIATELY.Marissa's announcement
I needed to see what made the Queen of Hearts become such a blubbering, humourless, merciless and heartless terror.The first chapters boggled my mind, before I got used to seeing Catherine Pinkerton being so pliable, understanding and simply GOOD.
She wants to make her the Queen of Hearts.Although this is a slow-paced novel, it’s important to know that Marissa Meyer does not info-dump us.
Up to that point, it’s still magical, just very slow and seeming to go nowhere exactly plot-wise, because Marissa Meyer is building/presenting her characters.I thought I’d warn you, so you don’t expect to be thrown into the action right from the start.
4.5 stars “When pleased, I beat like a drum. When sad, I break like glass. Once stolen, I can never be taken back. What am I?” Slow clap for Marissa Meyer for another amazing fairy tale retelling. Looking at the blurb, it's hard to imagine Catherine, who just wanted to open a bakery and fall in love, would ever become the short-tempered, unpredictable Queen of Hearts we all know.The transformation is incredibly well-done. You know it's coming, that there isn't a happily ever after, but that shit
Looking at the blurb, it's hard to imagine Catherine, who just wanted to open a bakery and fall in love, would ever become the short-tempered, unpredictable Queen of Hearts we all know.The transformation is incredibly well-done.
You know it's coming, that there isn't a happily ever after, but that shit-hits-the-fan moment still gets you in the gut.
Meyer mentioned in an interview that she wanted fans to be able to jump straight to Lewis Carroll's work straight after reading Heartless and I can assure you the lady knows what she's doing.
Old characters, like the Mad Hatter and the Cheshire Cat, appear with extra additions of Meyer's own invention.
When I started to read the book I was really surprised how nice and relatable she was and even halfway through “Heartless” I still kept wondering how she’d ever be able to turn into the Queen of Hearts.
I swear his golden eyes and black curls immediately caused me to think of another awesome character I hold close to my heart and yes I was a goner the instant he entered the scene!
I believe he would do his best to be a good husband.”I understand why Jest didn’t want to go behind his back but I’m also convinced that Cath should have been honest with the King.
It happens!) It went like this : ► I already knew how it would end?
Even with a fantastic premise, Heartless couldn't hold my interest after the first half, mostly because its characters started to ...
Where was the thrill, the tension, when the characters' decisions started to stop making sense to go through the predictable road?
It's like the author suddenly remembered that she couldn't do what she wanted, and needed to get her characters where they ought to be ASAP.
I think the story just adhered a little too closely to the original material for me and I wanted to see something a bit more creative, like with Queen of Hearts by Colleen Oakes or The Lunar Chronicles.
I was trying to keep this story separate from Marissa Meyer's previous series and not put any unfair expectations on Heartless, so I hope my love for TLC didn't raise my rating of this book or made me disappointed by comparison.
They're very different stories and I still think Marissa Meyer is queen of retellings even if this particular book wasn't totally my cup of tea!
Arrrgggh... I can feel the knives being sharpened. *gulp* So, can we talk about this book first before you send the knife my way?Heartless is an imagined prequel to Alice in Wonderland but with its main focus being the "Queen of Hearts", she of the famous "Off with their heads" quote. Alice in Wonderland is a fantastical story written in 1865 by Lewis Carrol, who created the glorious dystopian world of Wonderland replete with a talking cheshire cat, a bumbling rabbit, knaves, Jabberwocks and muc
A talented baker, all she wants is to open a shop with her best friend.....Then Cath meets Jest, the handsome and mysterious court joker..........
(view spoiler)[Catherine didn't strike me as one who wanted to fall in love, I do believe she showed more passion for her macaroons and pies than for anyone or anything else, IMO.
(view spoiler)[Catherine was the consummate baker and really, the best part of this story is the baking.
(hide spoiler)]Meyer had taken enough literary liberties with this story and could have done so much more with Jest.
So, when you get there, don't panic: it's all but short-lived.•Another moment I would have written differently is when she (view spoiler)[decides to accept the King so as to allow Jest to accomplish his mission (hide spoiler)].
•I'm not sure I fully grasped the meaning of the fact that (view spoiler)[some of Cath's dreams actually came true, like the lemon tree or the roses or the key lime (hide spoiler)].
Yet, Meyer managed to fill it up with a beautiful and fast-paced story that I was hooked from start to end.Heartless tells the story of a girl named Catherine, who's the daughter of a royal family going by Rock Turtle Cove in the Kingdom of Hearts.
I've become rather fond of fools."But that's not all, Heartless also introduces us to Jest, who is the King's court joker and Catherine's love-interest.
I don't want to go into too much details but Jest has very own story that's definitely worth picking up this book for as YOU SURELY DON'T WANT TO MISS OUT.
I think both Fairest and Heartless just speak to my tragic love-story masochist heart or something along those lines.
The Queen of Hearts, known as Catherine in this story, was once not evil at all.
The Queen of Hearts isn't the only origin story for this book; we also learn a great deal about the Mad Hatter, and what was the final straw to make him truly mad.
Alice in Wonderland started my obsession with finding "magical doorways" and, to this day, I still love reading about them.
This story will haunt me for some time, and I will never read Alice in Wonderland the same way.
They were all a little mad, if one was to be forthright.  BUDDY READ WITH SUNNY, MY FAVORITE CHILD.Okay so, it's a big surprise I enjoyed this. I knew I would simply because it's Marissa Meyer and she did not disappoint me with her Lunar Chronicles series, so I knew this would happen. Marissa is the only author that is able to write novels that captivate me from the very first sentence. To be honest, I dislike retellings a lot. I won't say I hate them, but we aren't very good friends. Every re
I'm always afraid to read retellings because I always think it will ruin the original fairy tale, but when it comes to Marissa, there's no doubt I'll love it.Cath was definitely a character I enjoyed reading about.
She was also caring and nice but of course, the teenage girl must become the Queen of Hearts that orders to chop heads off and has everyone hating her.Another thing I loved about Cath is that she wasn't afraid to find out who this mysterious court joker and what he was up to, Jest.
ANOTHER BOOK BY MY ULTIMATE FAVORITE AUTHOR?!!!??     I NEED IT!NOW.TODAY.AT THIS EXACT MOMENT. NOT IN TWO YEARS.
DNF 53%I almost never give up on a book, but...Yikes. Um. Yeah, no.Sorry this one just isn't for me. I tried. But, it was just too boring for my personal taste.I should probably mention that I'm not an Alice in Wonderland fan. I've never read it, and I never plan to. In fact, I've never even made it all the way through the Disney movie. I know it's a classic and all, but even the animated version bores me.I'm not saying this story is boring, just that it's boring  to me.  Catherine is the daught
But, it was just too boring for my personal taste.I should probably mention that I'm not an Alice in Wonderland fan.
And there's all sorts of Alice in Wonderland characters/references going on throughout.
The world's most snoozworthy romance happening in Trippyville.I've been struggling with this book for over a month now, and I finally decided to take the coward's way out, and *GASP!* skip to the last few pages to see how it all turned out.Yeah, no thanks.I've only DNF'd a small handful of books over the years, but I'm afraid this is going to have to be one of them.
“Roses are red, violets are blue,I would even trim my moustache for you!”  This book is magic. I could feel it everywhere when words were recounted, when songs were chanted and when hearts were broken. Other than that, the book made me giggle continually. Catherine has the great development since the beginning. Her character is played out an exact direction as a good girl constrained by traditions. And then she meets Jest, her heart is conveyed out of the path of marrying the King of Hearts. Ca
Her character is played out an exact direction as a good girl constrained by traditions.
I should have felt good with it, but I didn't.
I was afraid that this book would be another Fairest, a pitiful girl turns villainous by people around her.
Anyhow, the ending was not what I was afraid of, and I was quite satisfied with those twists and turns flipping my stomach and wrenching my heart painfully.
By the by, I liked many things of Heartless: its characters, story, twists and magical world which divided by the Looking Glass.
I cried. IN DEPTH VIDEO REVIEW COMING SOON. I... am speechless.
*3.5 stars*  Heartless by Marissa Meyer is an Alice in Wonderland prequel set long before the infamous Queen of Hearts was the terror of Wonderland.
While being one of the most beautiful girls in wonderland and a favorite of the King of Hearts, as a talented baker all Catherine wants is to open a bakery with her best friend.
Not reciprocating the Kings feelings for her, Catherine meets the mysterious yet handsome court joker, Jest, at the royal ball where the kind is to propose to her.
That being said I want to thank Marissa Meyer for writing such a wonderful origin story to one of my favorite villains of all time.
Thus, I was happy to find new fictional beings to like, love, and hate in this book.
All she really wanted in life was to be a successful baker and possibly marry for love, but her royal parents blindly forced her into a life/fate they sincerely believed would make her happy.
In totality, he was a very attractive character (not only physically speaking).The antagonists in this book were downright despicable, but it was in the best possible way.
Whilst I was quite annoyed that I managed to predict some events or outcomes, I loved how Marissa Meyer was able to flawlessly connect all the circumstances leading to Cath's imminent transformation into the Queen of Hearts.
***FULL REVIEW ORIGINALLY AT www.twirlingpages.com!marissa meyer twisted together a tale that is different, and yet familiar.i had high expectations going on HEARTLESS.
marissa meyer is one of my favorite authors and ALICE IN WONDERLAND is one of my favorite stories.
before beginning, i’d recommend going over a wikipedia of what the original ALICE IN WONDERLAND story consists of.
marissa meyer wrote the novel in a style that made me feel as if i should already know the world, but i didn’t.
there were so many aspects i loved about the book – the characters, writing, plot, etc.
like wonderland, this book is not one you can predict.
I read Cinder about a year and half ago, not really expecting much, and surprised myself by obsessing and devouring the rest of the Lunar Chronicles Books in record time.I read Alice in Wonderland ten years ago and the Disney movie was one of my favourites when I was little.
So, given that Heartless is an origin story for the Queen of Hearts written by Queen Marissa Meyer, no surprises that this was pretty much the most anticipated read.Within just the first few chapters, I found myself constantly hungry due to the delicious food descriptions.
A grandes rasgos les puedo decir que Meyer respeta mucho los detalles clásicos de Alicia en el país de las Maravillas, pero decide darse ciertos lujos con la travesía de su personaje principal quien debe ser o convertirse en la Reina de corazones.
De los puntos altos en el libro, como ya es costumbre en la autora, son las interacciones entre personajes.
Si aún te van los romances y si aún no te aburren los YA, creo que Heartless será un buen libro para ti que te ayude a desestresarte cuando tengas mucha tarea o trabajo.
“If ever I get married, I want there to be romance, and passion. I want to fall in love.” 4 1/2 stars. This book broke my heart. What a cruel ending. And yet, I saw it coming the whole time, which probably made it even harder to bear.Oh my goodness, this book! I loved it so much and I think I'm in danger of becoming a hardcore Marissa Meyer fan. Like, I want to go to her house and demand she write a sequel. And bring a certain character back to life. *sobs*Heartless is an evil, torturous addict
Cath suddenly finds herself whisked into a courtship with the silly, unintelligent King, while at the same time falling for Jest, the King's Joker.I loved the romance so much.
There was so much chemistry between Cath and he; I wanted Cath to find a way to marry Jest and understood her frustration toward her parents, who only cared about Cath becoming Queen.There were many other wonderful characters such as Cheshire, Hatta, and Raven that held similarities to the original characters with Meyer's own unique spin.
It was a new day in Hearts, and she was the Queen.”
My Rating:  Synopsis:  “It was impossible, and she absolutely believed it.” Catherine Pinkerton lives in Hearts. She is the only daughter of Marquess and Marchioness. King of Hearts fancies her to be his wife and Queen of Hearts. But Catherine has other plans. The throne of Hearts does not appeal her. She is a baker at heart and has a dream of opening her own bakery where she could make delectables that no one has ever tasted. But that is not the only thing she dreams about.Both her dreams can
It is like Marissa Meyer borrowed some characters from Alice in Wonderland and spun a new fantasy novel around them.And I found this novel to be very enchanting except for the first 40 percent where we are told about Catherine’s bakery dream and her struggles to avoid King’s proposal, numerous times.
Not only that, it was too irritating to read again and again about how much the Marchioness wants Catherine to marry the King.
She was so desperate that it all started to get boring and I was wondering if I want to further read the book or not.
We want to read that book again just because of that character.
