https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32600726-the-almost-sisters
I think all readers can relate to that feeling on occasion; it seems to be the holy grail of the reading experience and we try to capture that experience as often as possible to contain that wholly satisfied feeling.As a caucasian female born and raised in the deep south, it’s safe to say I’m a part of the target market for Jackson’s books.
While I won’t be getting into detailed plot specifics, I could feel early on that the author chose to focus on a timely issue that I have struggled with for years-the dual nature of the southern states and how that nature affects minorities.
My whole life I’d seen only one. I loved my South, though I could see how it was broken, plagued still with the legacies of slavery and war and segregation, history and a thousand unseen walls divided up the territory so that we had a black Baptist church and a white one, and the narrow aisle between the color-coded lunch tables at the high school was invisibly a chasm filled with dragons. Still, I always thought my homeland was a single place. I was wrong.  The South was like that optical ill
And much more is to be seen through Leia’s work.Joshilyn Jackson - from Atlanta MagazineThroughout the novel, Leia struggles to concoct an origin story for her Violence in Violet graphic novel.
Both the hominess of this small Southern town and the darkness of some of the underlying attitudes offer a challenge for Leia as she uses her insight to the place to maneuver her way through the sundry challenges she faces.In her recent novel about racism, Small Great Things, Jodi Picoult went with a full-on courtroom drama to cast a spotlight on what racism looks like.
Update: WOW...
GREAT DAILY DEAL...$1.99 Kindle download today!
It's sooooo good, that I want to BUY A COPY of the created *graphic novel*, "Violence in Violet"...(with drawings of rabbits - fat mice - puffy birds - etc.
). I would pay for this paper graphic novel!!!
Leia's ( Lay), messages through her graphic art & words are powerful - linking this entire novel together....about RELATIONSHIPS of all kinds!!!
"Violet's story happened to everyone.
and......in doing so...once we break -we just might re-open...create more authentic intimacy with our own sisters!!
Dedicating my reading to Violet Wells!!
This is the 2nd novel I've read by this author and she continues to impress me.
Is this a beach read?Turns out there is more to the story than the surface stuff.
The twist towards the end did surprise me and this is why I will continue to look for all Jackson writes.
The only criticism I have was it was neatly packaged at the end and I'm not a fan of comic books, but it was still a very readable and enjoyable story.
An insane and highly addicting concoction of quirky southern drama-Set in Alabama, this story centers around Leia Birch Briggs, a comic book illustrator, trying to give her most famous character new life with a prequel.
Maybe not quite like her alter ego comic book superheroes, whose character run along side Leia's, but enough to keep her family from falling completely apart.
This book is filled with zany, quirky, and flawed characters all facing heavy, life altering situations, and they are nearly all related to or deeply connected to each other, making the situation even more volatile.
How many author can combine the grace and elegance of the south while deftly showing many of the issues that are still apparent underneath the charming veneer.
I laughed so hard and will never look at salmon quite the same way again.
She uses a light, gentle tone, a great deal of humor while dealing with some very real issues.
Weighty subjects, all handled with humor and a great deal of tenderness and love.
The characters are wonderful, worm their way into your heart, unforgettable.
Oh my, I really enjoyed this book. This is a book of Southern origins. It combines a story line of race relationships, super heroes, single motherhood, and long buried secrets.I've only read one other book by this author and enjoyed both. I will be reading more of her work!
This novel is so readable- I know people say that a lot and it may not make sense because all books can be read.
For me it's the ease of reading about relatable characters, a realistic story infused with humor and comical moments amidst some crisis situations facing the characters.
I'm not a fan of comic books and I've never read a graphic novel so I really wasn't taken by the fact that Leia is a graphic artist and creator of a comic book character.
4 quirky, superhero stars to Joshilyn Jackson’s The Almost Sisters! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ Review of the audio read by the author! 🎧 Joshilyn Jackson’s narration was so entertaining I will be listening to all of her future books. The Almost Sisters starts out silly but fun. The main character has a rendezvous with Batman (yes, Batman!) at a cartoon convention. References to Batman had me chuckling throughout. However, Joshilyn Jackson, in her trademark quirky, fun, there’s more to it than meets the eye, style,
4 quirky, superhero stars to Joshilyn Jackson’s The Almost Sisters!
⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ Review of the audio read by the author!
🎧 Joshilyn Jackson’s narration was so entertaining I will be listening to all of her future books.
The Almost Sisters starts out silly but fun.
However, Joshilyn Jackson, in her trademark quirky, fun, there’s more to it than meets the eye, style, delves into some deeper issues like race, aging, elder care, and...sisterhood.
Joshilyn Jackson is an author unto herself.
Leia Birch Briggs is 38 years old, living in Norfolk, Virginia, and makes her living as an artist, a graphic novel / comic book artist to be specific, an occupation which leads others, especially family members, to be dismissive of her talent and her success.
He wouldn’t have that choice.”The South that Leia has grown up loving has its dark side, which she has been aware of, but having the future of her little temporarily inside-sidekick opens her eyes even more.
As Birchie alienates more neighbors, and sides are taken, Leia still holds out hope are for a better future for this place she sees as home.
But before Leia can break the news of her impending single-motherhood (including the fact that her baby is biracial) to her conventional Southern family, her step-sister Rachel’s marriage implodes.
Worse, she learns her beloved ninety-year-old grandmother, Birchie, is losing her mind, and she’s been hiding her dementia with the help of Wattie, her best friend since girlhood.Leia returns to Alabama to put her grandmother’s affairs in order, clean out the big Victorian that has been in the Birch family for generations, and tell her family that she’s pregnant.
Yet just when Leia thinks she’s got it all under control, she learns that illness is not the only thing Birchie’s been hiding.
There are two sets of “almost sisters”: Leia and her stepsister Rachel, and Leia’s 90-year-old grandmother and her long-time best friend, Wattie.
She is trying to find a way to tell her family, but before she has a chance to do so, she discovers her stepsister Rachel’s marriage is in trouble and unbeknownst to her, her grandmother has been showing signs of dementia.
Along with her 13-year-old niece, Lavender, Leia travels to Alabama to sort out her grandmother's affairs.
Twice, lol)Recommended for fans of southern fiction who enjoy quirky characters and their humor with a touch of mystery and social commentary.Thanks to my fellow Traveling Sisters for another great read!
A successful career, an ailing grandmother, a one-night stand, and a Southern family with untold secrets.Leia had always been close to her grandmother, but did she really know her grandmother? After finding out her grandmother has been suffering with dementia for over 10 years, Leia puts the job she loves on hold and goes to Alabama to see what actually is going on.What Leia finds at her grandmother's home isn't what she had expected, and coupled with her unexpected pregnancy was a bit overwhelm
After finding out her grandmother has been suffering with dementia for over 10 years, Leia puts the job she loves on hold and goes to Alabama to see what actually is going on.What Leia finds at her grandmother's home isn't what she had expected, and coupled with her unexpected pregnancy was a bit ​overwhelmed.Grandmother Birchie and her life-long friend, Wittie, are delightful characters and characters that can no longer live alone, but are putting up a fight.​ When the secret in their attic is found, they get a reprieve from having to leave their home becaus​e the Sheriff ordered them to stay in the state.THE ALMOST SISTERS had a lot of drama​ and a lot of love​.
I have wanted to read Joshilyn Jackson for awhile now and was thrilled to get my hands on her newest novel. There were aspects of this I enjoyed; the feisty southern ladies, the quaint southern town and the mystery of the bones. The comic book part, however, for me just didn't fit in the story. Overall, 3.5 stars.
Every time I read a book by this author I come away feeling as though the characters are personal friends.
Her first person narration, the humor, the contemporary issues, and her knowledge of human nature make the story come to life in a special way.And boy, does she know the South!
This lady writes about life and the human condition, in particular the way we manage those things here in the South.
Loved, loved, loved this book! Leia Birch has hit the trifecta of family emergencies. An unexplained rift in her perfect stepsister's marriage. A pregnancy from a one night stand. But the one requiring her immediate attention is her beloved grandmother's long hidden dementia manifesting publicly at the church's fish fry. Fixing all these problems certainly won't prove easy, but it will prove entertaining and thoughtful. Block off some time, you won't be able to put this one down.
I have never read Joshilyn Jackson before and I don’t know why not because she is a talented author.
This author has taken many seemingly unlikely scenarios and combined them into one book in a seamless easy way that I don’t even question them.
I listened to this on audio and it is narrated by the author herself.
It has been my experience that the author narrates their work best.
In the case of Joshilyn Jackson, this is an understatement.
She is great at many voices and it was so much fun listening to this on audio.
The Almost Sisters combines wildly different subjects including Batman, Lewy bodies (a form of dementia), family drama, the Old South, a graphic novelist and decades-old bones into a story that drew me in from the beginning.
While I find it very depressing that this issue still exists, both authors handle the issue thoughtfully and effectively.Graphic novels generally do not appeal to me, but my favorite part of The Almost Sisters was the interweaving of Leia’s graphic novel characters into the story.
Interestingly enough, in the beginning, it takes me a little bit of time to get comfortable with Jackson's Southern accent (she's reading the novel herself), but as I get more into the story, I end up really liking it.
Our narrator and the main character is a thirty-eight-year-old cartoonist, Leia Birch Briggs, who, after a one night stand with 'Batman' at a comic-con, finds herself "a little bit pregnant".
This becomes more apparent to Leia as her baby daddy is an African American man, therefore, her child is going to be mixed race.
I'm glad I got around to listening to another Jackson audiobook.
4 stars!The Almost Sisters by Joshilyn Jackson was a very impressive and enjoyable read!Full review to follow shortly
But before Leia can even tell her family, she gets some disturbing news from Alabama about her paternal grandmother, Birchie.
As Leia rushes to Alabama to help Birchie, she also learns that her stepsister, Rachel, is struggling.
Sure, a lot of this book is a little predictable, but the racial tensions and struggles that Jackson writes about are not: they are real and true.
Good summer read with southern characters and setting. The Almost Sisters was realistic with characters you care about. Well written story that explores race, family, and a few secrets. The comic book plot weaved throughout the novel diminished my interest in the novel, though. I recommend listening to the audiobook read by the author. 3.5★s!
Southern goth at its best! Loved it!
I think all her books has these elements but the previous books I read felt like there was a bit more meat to the bone.In theory, this story should have a lot of substance.
Set in the South where racial tension has never gone out of style, where neighbours holds grudges for decades, where the church is the axis that turns the wheels of this small community, something happens that blows all these seemingly important issues right out of the water.And then there is the matter of Bat Man……If you start reading this with the understanding that this will be a sweet, slightly naïve story with a lot of nerdy Marvel references then I think you will enjoy it.
3.5 stars Review soon...
2.5 stars It's always a gamble when trying a new author- I'd heard many great things about Jackson, so I was excited to give this a go. Unfortunately, this just wasn't for me. While there were a few things that I enjoyed, the negatives outweighed the positive & made my experience lackluster.
So, completely ignore the cover.
It's a horrible cover that has very little to do with the actual story.
And for fuck's sake, the sister relationship is like the smallest and most boring (which, yes, I know is my opinion) part.
And jesus, there's a character with a disability that, in my completely uneducated opinion, was handled really super well.
So why the fuck in all of fuck is there no color purple on this cover?
So, read this book but not for the cover, the title, or the synopsis.
Read it because I am smart and I am telling you this book is smart.
What it's all about...Leia has a complicated relationship with her perfect stepsister Rachel.
Just know that Leia's life changes after meeting someone at a comic festival and Rachel's life changes because of her husband.
They both end up in Birchville, Alabama at Leia's grandmother's house.
Why I wanted to read it...I love this author's work and this book sounded really great.
What made me truly enjoy this book...The writing, the complex issues, the characters, the town...all of these made this book truly wonderful.Why you should read it, too...Readers who are familiar with this author and enjoy her writing will love this book.
New readers of this author can easily start with this book and love her work.
The bonus is that the life experiences since we last met up are always going to be more complicated than my own in ways I might have never considered.
Jackson writes about her version of the Southern USA, which she loves as dearly as she is conflicted by its racial divide and complicated history.
In Almost Sisters, women must endure and try to thrive under difficult conditions- almost subversively, as women have done for generations, hiding their strengths and talents in order to protect those they love and clear a path for the future.
Jackson writes with humour and empathy.
It was very interesting to learn about what goes into the creation of graphic novels, and see how small little details in the illustrations has big meanings for the people that read them.
The only reason this book does not get more stars is that everything felt a little too sweet, but still a great read.The Story: Leia, single at 38, writes popular graphic novels but is gun-shy with men.
Leia decides to take charge, driving from her home in Norfolk, Virginia, to the small town in Alabama where Birchie lives with her lifelong friend Wattie, a black woman whose mother was her family’s housekeeper.
