https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178760.Minn_of_the_Mississippi
This is the book I most look forward to reading with my future children. It’s about a turtle’s journey down the Mississippi from its’ start in Minnesota and all the way down to the Gulf. The art in this book is also gorgeous. Even if you never have children, never want children, hate children, I don’t care. You need to read this book.
08/09: Actually, I skimmed this one. I wanted to love this. We adored "Paddle-To-The-Sea." But, there was just so much information (great information, granted) that it was hard to follow Minn's story. I'd love to read Minn's story and then slowly study the additional geographical and historical information. Mais, but I did like that she ended up in a lovely Louisiana swamp. THAT is a happy ending. ;-)
I brought a copy via Ebay from the Holderness Library in Holderness NH printed in 1951 I know this is a "childrens" book, but not only did I learne to love read from this book, but also developed a love for reptiles from this book including a love for snapping turtles both on and off the New Orleans dinning table where its served.The pictures and etchings and maps are amazing and its suprisingly deep for a "childrens" book about the adventures of a one leg snapping turtle (Minn) escaping to the freedom of the gulf of Mexico!
This was our geography read-aloud for our first term. Every Holling C. Holling book I say is my new favorite. They’re all superb. This one follows Minn, a snapping turtle on his journey down the Mississippi River. It covers the life cycle of turtles, geology, history and much geography. We used this along with a big map to follow Minn as he traveled. Everyone loved this one. Read it to ages 4-13.
The insights we gain by reading Minn of the Mississippi, Paddle-to-the-Sea and Seabird could only have come from a person who had hands-on knowledge of his environment and 19th century crafts, geography through personal exploration, and trial-and-error skills learned by canoeing and survival camping.We’re fortunate that Hazel Gibb Hinman spent days interviewing Holling and his wife Lucille in 1957 for her Master’s thesis at the University of Redlands in California.
She entered cuts in solid granite and sea-laid stone, ground out by swirling water with gravel and sand.” Papa Bennett’s lessons had been well learned.Holling worked on board the large ships plying the Great Lakes.
We adopted a common snapping turtle late last summer and she was a fun pet, at least until she grew to be a bit scary to handle.
We miss her, but are glad that she is in the care of folks who know her needs better than we do.So this tale brought back good memories of Snappy.
Still, it's incredibly informative and I learned a lot about the mighty Mississippi River as well as about snapping turtles.
66)"I do not need th' treasure buried in God's banks of sand an' mud.
Holling.Somehow Minn of the Mississippi had managed to slip into a memory hole, despite it being one of my all-time favorites as a child.
Rediscovering my remembrances of Minn of the Mississippi today is a welcome gift.Perhaps I thought of the book today in response to my daughter telling me a story yesterday of how she helped a snapping turtle off the train tracks next to our house.
My mother read it to me, but of the thousands of books I read to my own children, I never thought of this book, never looked for it in our public library, never saw it on the shelf in a bookstore.
to moss-encrusted adulthood in the Gulf of Mexico, her triumphant golden reptilian eye gleaming out at the reader amid a wealth of sunken pirate plunder.I ask you, how could "With Jack and Janet" hold a candle to that?While of Holling's books are constructed on this model, the heroic journey (with the possible exception of "the Book of the Cowboys," which is more of a travelogue with historical asides) "Minn of the Mississippi" is his undisputable masterwork, a biography with an unlikely heroine, an adventure, a history lesson, and those wonderful, wonderful paintings.
The first book that I remember reading was "Pagoo" by Holling Clancy Holling.
On a whim, I ordered Minn of the Mississippi because it seemed along the same lines as Pagoo, although this is the story of a snapping turtle.
Minn is born at one end of the Mississippi, and through a series of adventures ends up at the other end.
The story here is not as compelling as that of Pagoo, although keep in mind the time difference in my first reading of these two stories.
This loveable little book is vividly-written and filled with beautiful illustrations; it's a truly nostalgic adventure and Minn is a wonderful main character to follow along with, especially for younger readers (though adults can certainly still enjoy it, too!) :)
Holling has a way of writing stories that stay with you for years. I wish I knew where my copy of this went!
Good, but I don't think it's a match for Paddle to the Sea by the same author.
An extraordinary look of a special snapping turtle, Minn's, journey down river of the mighty Mississippi. Besides her journey, your learn about the history of this mighty river. Chock full of so much information through text and illustration, you will be enamored with what you see and read. This book will spark your intrigue to learn more. Written and illustrated by Holling C. Holling. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company.#mustread #biology #MississippiRiver #NF #PB #snappingturtle
I cannot remember when I read this or how I got it, but I do know I was very young. I think this book, along with all the comics I read, was at least somewhat instrumental in my becoming an artist (as well as my fascination with the animal kingdom in general). It holds a very special place in my library, and I think any child would like it, if only for the immense detail of the gorgeous artwork between it's covers.
This was used as our geography read-aloud, but we should have used the maps from the blog "Little Schoolhouse in the Suburbs" more diligently. Link: http://littleschoolhouseinthesuburbs.... My 8-year-old and I feel "meh" about Minn, but maybe we didn't give it the effort it requires. It just didn't capture either of us. I might try it again with another student.
This story recites the life and journey of a turtle down the Mississippi River. It worked fine to illustrate geography of the Mississippi, but the overall story wasn’t the best I have read by this author.
I liked the picture's. But what i didn't like about the book was at the begging i really thought it was really boring.
I remember my mom reading this book to me when I was not more than 4.
Oh, I dearly remember pouring over the book; delving into the meticulous illustrations and nature notes; during multiple check-outs from the local library.
I lost track of how many times I read the book; it was in the dozens.
I remember my mom telling me that during on 5-year period I had checked out that one book more than all others combined.
It was a 1st Edition volume, signed by Holling; purchased in a small book store in Champaign, IL.
Oh, rue-the-day that book was lost..!!!
RL 4.8Lexile: 785Fountas & Pinnell: RThis Newbery Honor book presents the Mississippi River through the life of a turtle, Minn.
The author combines information on the path of the Mississippi through the country and the life of turtles into an information filled story.
Characters come and go as Minn travels from Minnesota to the Gulf of Mexico.Classroom Use:Informational Text: Information is presented in the form of a story.Combined Learning: Students learn about the river as well as the life of the turtle.Mentor Writing Traits:Ideas: Information is presented well in story form.Presentation: Text is supplemented by illustrations that show the turtles growth and development as well as the features of the river along the way.Voice: The story is written from Minn's perspective, but there are many other characters that come into play along the journey.Word-Choice: The author invented word pictures to help readers understand the river better.
I need to comment first on the author's name, obviously.
Doesn't get much cooler than Holling C.
Holling.
That is one bad-ass name.
Now the book.
I've read other books by Holling (Seabird, for one) and enjoyed the illustrations he adds in the margins but I wasn't particularly looking forward to a story of a turtle's journey down the Mississippi.
MUCH better than Seabird.
New cold came; deeper snow.
Worn wood, rock and twisted metal made torn pages of a continued story.
When Minn dug in clay or currents eddied the silt, new pages of the story came to light."
As a lifetime fan of Paddle-to-the-Sea along with my Minnesota-bred mother who introduced it to me, I was surprised to discover Holling's other books a couple years ago and soon bought them all for her, which of course meant I get to read them too.
Minn of the Mississippi returns to what Holling does best.
A journey through time and place, our snapping turtle endures literally a lifetime of adventures in her travels down the mightiest of North American rivers.
There is an environmental consciousness that was probably somewhat ahead of its time.
A story of the life of a snapping turtle from the headwaters of the Mississippi River in Minnesota to its mouth in Louisiana, Minn of the Mississippi holds a wealth of information about the history and ecology of the largest river in North America.Holling's atmospheric watercolors depict not only the factual geography and biology of the river, but also helpful bits of folklore and mapping.
I still see a bear balancing on its nose whenever I look at the map of the Mississippi in southern Illinois.I loved Holling's books as a kid, a good generation after they first came out.
As with his other books, the b&w line drawings are THE reason to read it.
Updated: Read again for Book Club 5/2014B, age 10, review: I would rate it 3 stars.
It was a pretty good book and I liked the idea but I think they should rewrite it and make it a little more exciting because the story wasn't that exciting for me.
And also I like that it was from a turtle's perspective but not written by the turtle.
And I also liked the cool lessons about water and dams and all the places she went.
Holling's "Minn of the Mississippi" should rank among Beston's "Outermost House," Leopold's "Sand County Almanac," and Douglas' "River of Grass" as among the greatest nature writing.
This is not a typical children's story book but a complete history of the Mississippi River.
Only some unfortunate stereotyping in one chapter mars this gem.
(Though at the time this book was written, no one would have noticed.) You will spend hours perusing the beautiful illustrations, maps, and diagrams.
Holling's pencil drawings that decorate each chapter are just exquisite.
The adventures of a three-legged snapping turtle as she travels from the headwaters to the mouth of the Mississippi River illustrate the life cycle of the turtle and the geography, history, geology, and climate of the Mighty Mississippi. (Goodreads Summary)One of my favorite books growing up just a couple miles from the Mississippi River in Illinois. The wonderful paintings, etchings and maps were wonderous for this time period and really brought me into the story. For grades 4 and up.
I love Holling's books. They are really great to read to my kids because the story is fun, but beyond that, we learn SO much from them! The drawings and illustrations are incredible and give so much detail that ads to the story. If you homeschool (as we do), these books are a must-read! If you don't & love historical stories, you should read them to your kids, too!
I love, love, love Pagoo but for some reason Minn just didn't grab me the same way. But it's a Hollings. And a Hollings guarantees gorgeous language and a truck-load of side learning, this time Mississippi geography and history. Well worth the read.
Excellent way to learn about the Mississippi River, where it begins and ends, and lots about turtles. We used this as part of our homeschool curriculum in first grade, though an older student would get a lot from it too.
Holling is a naturalist after my own heart. Not only does he educate you about Snapping Turtles (A Snapper's water-pie for dinner) but you get also get a history lesson. I highly recommend this book for any child that is interested in reptiles and history. Great illustration's by Holling as well.
It is a beautifully written story with lots of history and great information. I just couldn't follow it or get into the storyline. It's about a turtle going down the Mississippi River from St. Paul to Baton Rouge. Yes, I learned some things, but I didn't enjoy it.
