https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6609549-by-the-time-you-read-this-i-ll-be-dead
But tell me, go ahead and try, that you didn't love the fact that Daelyn was going to kill herself (and successfully this time) by putting a cinder block on her face in the bathtub.karen: pff - i wasn't always this badass, and i never saw anyone else getting bullied, and i was one of those people who had a number of different social circles - student council and marching band and everything in between, so i sort of spanned the whole school (like greg's mom!!!) and i didn't really hear much of it.
Julie Anne Peters is nearly unmatched when it comes to writing about difficult, taboo, controversial, and absolutely necessary subjects, and her latest book is a terrifying masterpiece that deserves to find its way into everyone’s hands.Daelyn is not an easily likable protagonist.
It’s a powerful duality of readers’ position that only the most skilled of novelists can achieve.And indeed, Julie Anne Peters’ incredible writing skills are brilliantly showcased in this book.
Sometimes succinctness is the greatest form of power.I can’t end this review without pointing out how absolutely lovely Santana is—but I’ll let you find that out for yourself.
Teen suicide.
Not an easy subject to think or talk about.
This book tells the story of Daelyn.
She's 15 and determined to die this time.
Yes, you read correctly...she's tried to kill herself before and failed.
This time she knows it will work.
She thinks everyone will be happier without her.
One day after school she meets Santana and things start to look a little different, but is it too late?As a mother of a child who was bullied and talked about suicide because of it, this book was very difficult for me to read.
I recommend this book to anyone with a child.
Just like Picoult's book, this novel slapped me in the face at the end and negated whatever positive experience I might have gained from it.By the Time You Read This ...
Don't get me invested in characters and then not even tell me what bloody happens.In terms of subject matter, it would be virtually impossible not to compare this novel to Jay Asher's 13 Reasons Why. Both discuss an important issue in today's youth in a creative way.
Asher blows Peters out of the park by being much more realistic (and also giving the reader a satisfying if somewhat sad denouement).
I think that some of the reviews on here are a little biased, seeing as some of you reading this book don't understand that type of pain Daelyn was in before she offed herself.
Suicide is not a way to stop life, but to stop pain.
Yes, there is always doubt in your mind, even when people follow through with suicide, they were doubting it at one point.
For people to say that the author did not give her much of a personality, or did not make her as complex as she should have been, you don't understand her, then.
While I'm glad that books like this one are out there to encourage teens to seek help and find reasons to go on rather that committing suicide, I'm still not a huge fan of suicide/self-harm stories, especially when they try so hard to be dark that it just comes across as overdramatic.
I don't mean selfish in that Daelyn should have endured the bullying or tried harder to be happy, but selfish in that she apparently knew all too well what it feels like to be alone, and yet still she treats Santana badly, whether it be ignoring him outright or wanting him to just go away, never even considering the fact that his life has actually been worse than hers and he's only trying to help.
For some reason, the teachers and principals always believe the other students, making her feel further bullied.
Daelyn was overweight most of her life and that was the main fodder for the bullies, but not all.
Despite the fact that Daelyn can't talk, Santana talks a lot asking lots of questions.
Daelyn keys in no one, but can't help but think of the overweight girl in chorus.
That's how Daelyn is for most of the book until Santana starts to stir feelings in her.
The author lets you decide for yourself what you think Daelyn did on the last day.
This book was hard, but at the same time it was so enthralling.
Reading so openly about bullying and a parasuicidal kid made my stomach into a knot, but I couldn't keep my eyes off the book until I was finished with it.
I'm not sure what's the right word for it.
I'm not sure there's a right word for it.If you enjoyed "Willow", by Julia Hoban, this is definitely a book for you, even though the books by themselves have little in common.
Which I had to read at least three times to make sure I had completely understood it.
Check out my video review here:http://youtu.be/WneiVSOvPSs
Maybe I am rating this one so low but I guess It just didn't hit me that hard.I've read loads of stuff like this, tackling bullying and suicidal tendencies of youngsters, and there are a few which really stood out...
The problem of this book is having poor character development and being quite heavy on dialogues.
Maybe if she tried to look at other aspects of her life, she could've succeeded and got over her issues with herself and her parents.And there goes the other problem.
That's why those five and six year old girls think that by the time that they turn sixteen they will be married to a handsome prince and live in a pink castle.This book was my first realization into what can happen to people that are your best friends, or just some random person you pass in the hall on your way to class.
The way that she died and the information in the back of the book really opened my eyes to what can happen.
15 yaşında ki Daelyn etrafında ki insanlardan sürekli olarak zorbalık gören genç bir kız.
Daha fazla dayanamayarak bir kaç kez intihar girişiminde bulunur fakat sonuç hep başarısız olur.
Burada sadece Daelyn değil, kayıt olduğu sitede ki kullanıcıların yazdığı o 3-5 cümlelik şeyler bile beni inanılmaz etkiledi.
Onun yaşadığı hayatı başka bir kitap olarak okumak isterdim.
Belki Daelyn yaşadıklarını yaşamasaydı Santana'a çok daha farklı yanaşabilirdi.Sevmediğim kısmı ise Daelyn'nin annes ve babası.
Yaşadığı sorunları kendi anlatmak istemese bile bir anne baba olarak onların anlamasını o kadar istedim ki.
Artık bu tarz kitaplarda anne ve babaların daha bilinçli bir şekilde olduğu karakterler okumak istiyorum.Kitabı 1 günde okudum.
My friend Tammy dropped this off at the library for me to read, and one day as I was waiting for the virus scan to run on my work computer, I started reading.
By the next day, Lexi (the intern who shares my desk) had also started reading it while virus scans were running.
I had other things to read, but the whole time I was wondering and worrying about the girl in the story.Daelyn is going to kill herself in 23 days.
Sambil menunggu waktu dan membaca pengalaman orang-orang melakukan bunuh diri, dia akan memikirkannya nanti, cara lainnya yang akan dipakai untuk mengakhiri hidupnya dengan cepat.Waktu: 23 hari.Ketersediaan: Tergantung apakah ada faktor penghambat, seperti orangtuanya yang selalu mengawasi dirinya dan tidak pernah membiarkan dirinya sendirian, mereka tidak ingin kecolongan lagi.
Ejekan teman-temannya, kamp khusus menurunkan berat badan yang malah membuatnya seperti di neraka, pelecehan seksual sampai tidak dipercaya orangtua sendiri kalau dia benar-benar mengalami bullying di sekolah.Kemudian suatu hari ketika Daelyn menunggu jemputan, anak laki-laki yang beberapa hari ini selalu mengamati dirinya berani menampakkan diri, dia sangat ingin tahu tentang Daelyn, buku apa yang dia baca, kenapa dia tidak pernah bicara, apa yang terjadi dengan lehernya sehingga harus memakai penyangga?
This one really got me. I cried from the first to the last page.
I was not expecting this, specially in such a short read.
This book is so harsh.
I had physical ache while reading, that's how amazing it was.
If you dare to read something so heart-wrenching that will most likely stick with you.
This may be a hard read, but only because it's so real that it hurts.
The characters in the book were magnificent.
I wanted to tear him out of the book and keep him.
If you read Hate List (Jennifer Brown) and liked it, I think you will find this one really interesting too.
4.1/5 "HİÇ KİMSENİN, tekrar ediyorum HİÇ KİMSENİN BİR İNSANI BU KADAR ÜZMEYE HAKKI YOKTUR." Yorumu için: http://kronikokur.blogspot.com.tr/201...
Daelyn refuses to succumb to her bullies.Her dad calls out if she's ready to leave.Then with determination and purpose, she heads into the light.WHAT KIND OF ENDING DO YOU EXPECT ME TO GET?Honestly, it feels like that she'll live and that's what irks me.
What if deleting your account actually meant your name being put in the DOD list wherein you finally killed the demons in your head and start a brand new you?THERE'S TOO MANY POSSIBILITIES FOR THIS BOOK I CANT.or maybe I just feel like this because there was no Santana moment in the end.
This book is highly disturbing! It's basically a suicide guide!!!I thought that this will be an YA romance with a happy ending bud god, I was wrong! If I would know that this is a guide to an effective suicide, I wouldn't borrow it.I DO NOT RECOMMEND IT!
God. I, uh...I'm not sure what to think.First off, if you don't want to find out about multiple ways to kill yourself, do not read this book.This book touches up on some very important issues, and it leaves nothing out.
While the book was good, it really lacked in the supporting characters department.
The love interest/friend - Santana - felt kind of one-dimensional.
At all.I did like how Santana's presence helped Daelyn realize that the world could be worth living in.
Her realization that she wanted to live built from a subtle undertone to something absolutely disorienting for her.
She couldn't ever remember wanting to live.
Yazar yaşamlarımımızın bir zaman diliminde karşımıza çıkabilecek bir durumu o kadar duygulu ve içten bir şekilde yazmış ki artık kitabın sonlarına doğru gözyaşlarım sel olup aktı.
Özellikle 15 yaşındaki bir genç kızın yaşadığı bu durum/lar o kadar acı ki son 5 günü okurken kaç kez kitabın kapağını kapattım inanın hatırlamıyorum.
Son 5 gün bütün sırlar ortaya çıkmasına rağmen kitabın sonu okuyucuların düşünceleri ile başbaşa kalmasını sağlamış.
Bir an gerçekten bir an o kadar çok umutlandım ki hayalimde Santana ile Afrik dansı yaptım.
Acı ile...
En acısıyla en umut öldürücü şekli ile aklımda kalacak bir şekilde iz bıraktı ben de...
Ve seninle de bir gün Afrika dansı yapacağım Santana, söz...
this book instantly intrigued me when i saw the title and description.
heavy and sometimes hard to stomach but completely worth it.
she was giving up and i wanted her to fight for her life and happiness.
her relationship with her parents made me want to pull my hair out...
im a hea girl so i'm just going to go with that!as i said...heavy topics...
bullying, depression and suicide are all talked about quite freely in this book so keep that in mind when reading.
i did really like it and if you are looking for something heavier and emotion filled this is a good short book.
¿Qué carajos fue ese final?
¿Que le pesaba a Julie escribir unas líneas más para terminar todo estas dudas?Esta historia transcurre con Daelyn, que conoce a un chico, Santana, que se siente en la banca junto a ella cuando Daelyn espera a que su madre o padre la vaya a buscar, ha intentado suicidar varias veces, lo que ella dice esto que son intentos fallidos.Todo este libro transcurre en cómo es el pasado de Daelyn y el presente, en cómo está atrancada en ello, ya que sufrió bastante cosas.
Me identifique con varias cosas, fue increíble.No sé...
Su gibi akıp giden mükemmel bir kitaptı.
I read this because it fit for a challenge as I normally wouldn't choose to read about bullying and suicide. I got hit over the head when we find out Santana (view spoiler)[ has Hodgkin's lymphoma. I am currently in treatment for Hodgkin's. Needless to say, I was really rooting for him and his mom to have happy endings. (hide spoiler)]. There are a lot of negative reviews regarding the ending. I found it fitting. It wasn't all wrapped up with a nice bow, but I read it as a new start for all the
I read this because it fit for a challenge as I normally wouldn't choose to read about bullying and suicide.
I got hit over the head when we find out Santana (view spoiler)[ has Hodgkin's lymphoma.
I am currently in treatment for Hodgkin's.
Needless to say, I was really rooting for him and his mom to have happy endings.
There are a lot of negative reviews regarding the ending.
I'm wondering if that is really the point of the website with the waiting period, daily questions, comment boards, etc...
For about the first half of the book, I absolutely hated Santana, and I absolutely hated Daelyn's parents, and I actually found myself wanting her to commit suicide because, if I had a past like that, I might've done it myself.
Can't know for sure, but it's as if I really felt was Daelyn felt against these characters, and it's one of the few books that has ever done that to me other than Harry Potter, and that is definitely saying something.But in the second half, I seemed to care at least a bit more for her parents and a lot more for Santana.
“Lo único seguro es que la vida es un eterno infierno”.
Artık beni yalnız bırakamamasının sebebi altımı ıslatmam değil. Yirmi dört saatlik intihar gözetimindeyim.  Konuşabilsem ona, "Birkaç dakikada olan bir şey, seni sonsuza kadar değiştirebilir," derdim. Sonu daha tatmin edici olabilirdi.
Dan awal dari semua hidup baru, bukanlah sebuah lingkungan baru, melainkan sebuah perjalanan menembus cahaya.Hanya perlu satu sidik jari yang pas untuk mengakses Menembus-Cahaya, begitu kata forum rahasia itu.
Kali ini tidak akan ada yang bisa menghalangi Daelyn.
Ia harus segera pergi dari dunia ini, dengan begitu ia bisa bebas.Tapi, sebuah petaka muncul.
Tapi, laki-laki itu begitu ngotot ingin mengenal Daelyn.
Kendati diabaikan, Santana tidak semudah itu menyerah.Daelyn menjadi bimbang.
Tidak ada hal lain yang diinginkan oleh seorang laki-laki, selain hal yang paling ditakuti dirinya.Diawali dengan sebuah pesan yang disulap menjadi judul, Julie Anne Peters memilih frasa yang pas untuk mengundang pembaca agar menjadi penasaran.
The way she treats people seems like a simulacrum that she’s a bully herself.
At least, that’s what I think.While reading the book, I felt like I bought myself a manual in committing suicide.
There were times when I wanted to jump in inside the book and strangle her and kill her myself.
I had to cover my mouth to keep myself from totally losing it every time he’d crack a joke.If you have read Jay Asher’s Thirteen Reasons Why and John Green’s The Fault in Our Stars, you might also want to check this book out.
