https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38300.A_River_Runs_Through_It
My younger brother and I had a conversation growing up that went something like this:Him: “I can’t wait to get out of here.
What about you?”Here I would always put on the most innocent of grins and reply: “Oh, I’ll never leave South Dakota, brother.
Time has passed for both my brother and I; he has been in two wars, I remained in South Dakota and started teaching at one of the colleges.
Some of us will try to create this place.
Some of us will try to run from that place.
This book is so good I have trouble telling people about it.
This might be because it is so easy to start off with, "Well, it's this book about fly fishing..." The truth is the book IS about fly fishing: but more than that it is about life, family, love, brotherhood, and growing up.
It is the first novel the University of Chicago Press published, and if you read it, you'll understand why.
It reads like good poetry, flows like a river, and I recommend it to anyone and everyone.
Why does "The Catcher in the Rye" hold such fascination for Americans? Was it because of all the swear words in it? The fantastically awful narrator? When I think about American literature that deserves to be read and lauded this book shoves up to first place. It is truly an American book, full of marvel and wonder and space. "A River Runs Through It" is only one of the stories in the book--each better than that last. Better still is: "USFS 1919: The Ranger, the Cook, and a Hole in the Sky". Unbearably beautiful, and what a story!
Abandoning for now. Probably just not the right time.
But, with a big fish, one moment the world is nuclear and the next it has disappeared....Poets talk about 'spots of time,' but it is really fishermen who experience eternity compressed into a moment.
The river was cut by the world's great flood and runs over rocks from the basement of time.
"In our family, there was no clear line between religion and fly fishing. We lived at the junction of great trout rivers in western Montana, and our father was a Presbyterian minister and a fly fisherman who tied his own flies and taught others .... I am haunted by rivers."And so begins master storyteller Norman Maclean's tale of his family in early 20th century Montana. The book is a classic.
Λοιπόν, ο Νόρμαν Μακλίν γράφει για τον (κάπως) παράξενο αδερφό του και την ιδιαίτερη σχέση που είχε μαζί του, αλλά και για την κοινή τους αγάπη για το ψάρεμα (με ή χωρίς μύγα) στους μεγάλους ποταμούς της Μοντάνα.
Με λιτό τρόπο ο Μακλίν σκιαγραφεί το πορτρέτο του αδερφού του, καθώς και την τρέλα που μπορεί να έχουν κάποιοι άνθρωποι για το ψάρεμα και την φύση.
Γενικά είναι ένα ωραίο βιβλίο που μπορεί να δημιουργήσει κάμποσα συναισθήματα και το ιδανικότερο είναι ο αναγνώστης να το διαβάσει με μια κάποια προσήλωση και χωρίς βαβούρα τριγύρω, για να απολαύσει την ομορφιά της γραφής και της ιστορίας.
The story is iconic western literature.Here we read in novella format the essentially autobiographical story of the author's painful memories of his relationship with his beloved brother, who lives on in his consciousness as the Michelangelo of fly-fishing.The retelling of the story, written when the author was in his seventies, reflects its Scottish-Presbyterian roots in his family upbringing.
The reader must listen closely, read closely between the lines, to hear the deep heartbreak that is its driving energy.At least 80% of the narrative is of the river, the mountains and forests, and most especially the art of fly-fishing.
There’s not much I can write about this novella that would do it justice but I’ll try.It’s lyrical and poetic and simple and beautiful.
Norman Maclean writes like Hemingway, if Hemingway had gained a bit of wisdom and dropped the over-arching need to prove something to his readers or himself.It is, a great read.
It’s also a page-turner.
I find it hard to read current ‘literature’.
All the men in those books are usually college professors or some other ‘doesn’t sweat while working’ profession that the author has had some contact with while getting his MFA.
Maclean writes about men, plain and simple.
3.5/5Một câu chuyện đẹp.
Dọc suốt truyện là miêu tả sinh động về những dòng sông, kinh nghiệm câu cá lồng ghép trong tình yêu thương dành cho người em trai và tình cảm gia đình truyền thống.
Tình tiết truyện không quá gay cấn, đặc sắc nhưng vẫn để lại ấn tượng với những câu văn đẹp đến say lòng người, dù là với những người không hề biết câu.
Giọng văn rất trầm lắng, như trôi xuôi theo dòng ký ức cũng như theo dòng chảy êm đềm của những con sông, trôi mãi, trôi mãi vào vô tận...
Every word of this story fits precisely with the one before and after it. The result is a seamless whole that carries the reader through time and place into the soul of the River itself. The book IS a River. And I am haunted by its waters.
At its best it touches the pure poetry of existence that Hemingway touched.
Read this one out loud to Scot. What a beautiful book. To Scot’s dismay I had to cry a little at the end. :)
Beautiful writing. Actual conversation:"I'm reading Norman Maclean's A River Runs Through It." -Me"Through what?" -my friend
I read this after I went fly fishing for the first time, and it was pure gold. A fantastic story.
Contains best one liner in all of fishing literature: sentence begins with "You son of a bitch . . .". Has some mystic nonsense but why would anyone fly fish if there weren't some mystic nonsense in it?
Really incredible book about family and nature.
I thought it had powerful themes about how hard it is to help people: Each one of us here today will at one time in our lives look upon a loved one who is in need and ask the same question: We are willing to help, Lord, but what, if anything, is needed?
Either we don't know what part of ourselves to give or, more often than not, the part we have to give is not wanted.
And so it is those we live with and should know who elude us.
Sadly, Maclean only managed to write a few other books besides A River Runs Through It. It’s such a masterpiece, I have no chance of praising it properly.After his retirement, Maclean must have been reminiscing about his family and decided to document his early life growing up and growing older in Western Montana and – his version of the meaning of life.
It seems his father, John and his younger brother, Paul, had worked out that the answer to all family problems was to go fly fishing, which he describes in detail.
I finally read this little book because my big brother, Russ, has often mentioned it as a favorite of his, and he is a voracious reader.
It is easily one of the best books I have ever read.
Oh to be able to write like this!
I know I will not be able to say anything to give justice to this story.
"...you can love completely without complete understanding." It is a small piece of a regular man's true story, and his heart.
Having seen and enjoyed the movie some years ago, I was surprised to see that this was a novella.
It seemed bigger somehow.
This was a powerful story regardless of it's length.
There exists in man an innate spirituality that both struggles with and embraces the world wherein he lives.
Living so close to the world and guided by the faith of the father, this family in Montana illustrates this dichotomy in a beautifully told story.
The language pulls you into their world you feel their joy and their pain.
The bond is strong in spite of a feeling of helplessness.
The simple prose of this book can be deceiving, but there's a depth of story here. The depth comes from the trueness of it. It as if Maclean were sitting down with us and telling us his thoughts on fly fishing with a few family anecdotes thrown in. Each sentence still manages to carry the force of the higher philosophical implications. To paraphrase a Gary Snyder poem (who was probably paraphrasing some Eastern wisdom) if you think too much about the rocks in the riverbed, it ruins the magic of the ripples.
Absolutely spell-binding! I don't have words for how good it is. Read it at once!Ok. It's set in early twentieth century Montana, mountains, rivers and a small town.Two novellas and a short story. All three are autobiographical coming of age stories. We really do write best about what we know and maybe I especially liked it because my father taught me fly fishing when I was quite young.
I read this book every few years and have for the past 20 or 25 years. Every time it makes me cry, every though I know the book almost without reading it. If you've seen the movie, you know it is great, but you owe it to yourself to hear this book. Not only it the first novella wonderful, but the entire books is just great. As Norman's father would say, it is beautiful.
Fly fishing- no salmon so only 3 stars
This time I listened to an audio version read by Joel Fabiani that also included two additional stories: "Logging and Pimping and 'Your Pal Jim'" and "USFS 1919: The Ranger, the Cook, and a Hole in the Sky." The stories were fine, but no where near as good as A River Runs Through It. And Fabiani did a respectable job on the narration, but Doig's version remains my favorite.And the movie, while adding some scenes and making the characters younger, remains pretty faithful in tone.
After a quick Google search, I realize I had, once upon a time, watched this movie about fly fishing with Brad Pitt in it.
As a bait fisher and obvious scum of the sea?, I cannot tell you why I'm drawn to reading about fishing, particularly fly fishing when I definitely am terrible at it.
Also, having watched a movie and (view spoiler)[vaguely remembering a death of some sort, (hide spoiler)] I realized that the tone of this novella is great is crafting a sense of tension.
(hide spoiler)]I just love this sentence herein: "...it is not fly fishing if you are not looking for answers to questions." I feel that.
For a book focused on fishing to be entrancing to a non-fisherman, it has to be special
A beautiful book about family, men, their relationships, and fly fishing.
Beautiful.
It's a book about fly-fishing and the movements of the fisherman, the motions of the water, and the sights and sounds of the mountains surrounding them. It's a book about brotherly love and the beauty of life. Little happens but it's so simple and subtle and filled with depth and I love it.
