https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112518.The_Garden_of_Rama
Reading The Garden of Rama is pretty much like that: I'd promised myself I was going to finish the Rama series and so had to get through this book, and so I persevered through it all, shovelling page after page of toxic drivel down my throat no matter how bad it got.I'm afraid this review isn't going to have much structure or narrative flow.
This is where the Rama series ends for me.
A lot of the Rama mystery is gone.
There was still some focus on the Rama mystery.
The rest of the book, however, is tedious and pointless as it focuses on the human society aboard Rama.
Basically society breaks down and ridiculousness ensues.This is not what I wanted in a Rama sequel.
I wanted to learn more (but not too much) about Rama.
I did not want to spend most of the novel exploring the interaction between unlikable and clichéd characters.
I think the main thing people don't like about the Rama series after the first book is all the human drama.
Rama II and Garden of Rama both contain plenty of action and a plethora of interesting characters, creatures, and biots, which I loved.
The only thing that could be sped up a little bit is the first third, but like I said, I understand why it was so long, and after the action of the second and third parts, I can appreciate the fact that it's slow going at first.
Loved the first Rama novel; number 2 something of a disappointment- this one is a major let down.
Yup these bits make me tingled with anticipation...However i was cruely let down because the 2nd half is a sort of commune experience in which 2000 people are crammed on board Rama and it becomes one of those 'all-the-characters-rub-along'.
I didn't care for any of these boring non-entities and found myself skipping huge chunks of back-story (which lost nothing as far as narrative was concerned)And don't even get me started on the rissible HIV/AIDS analogue- talk about clumbsy preaching.So- all in all a dud.
Over long, boring.
These become our new cast characters for the rest of the series.There is very little left of Clarke's original idea here; the mysterious sense of wonder.
Rama III is basically an experiment set up by some advance alien entity.
When there should have been panic and rioting, no one seems to mind...The novel is broken down into segments, almost as if this was a collection of novellas set in Lee's version of the Rama world.
The first segment is written in the form of a journal written by Nichole.
Vile. Clumsily written by a dullard and carelessly edited by a sluggard. Read Lee's review near the top of the list if you really are still curious.
(view spoiler)[I am sticking with my 4 star rating for the third time in the Rama series, even though this book is completely different from the first two.
The present work translates more like a social experiment (what would happen if you take a cross section of 2000 humans that would perfectly resemble Earth's genetic, social and cultural population and you plant them on an alien spaceship in an environment so close to their home that they forget where they are) than a SF work.
In the end, I'm very pleased with the third book as well, and am currently starting the fourth.


When I read this novel as a teenager, I loved it, as I totally enthralled with the Rama series and the writings of Arthur C.
This "Sci-Fi" novel is better suited for a drinking game, where you drink every time you read the words 'tears', 'cry', 'crying', 'cried', and so on.
I give this book two stars instead of one because the writing itself is fine, it's just the overall story, and the insult to the much better Rama 1 and 2.
SUPERB!Looking much forward to read its following book.This book gave me thoughts (once again) to ponder about the human situation towards itself and its attitude towards other species. Gave me the shudders!!At another instance, it also pointed out about the pleasures (and possible rewards) of experiencing things anew.A Fantastic Book, in a Fantastic Series! :) :)
OK, Arthur, how about cutting to the chase? Actually, this was OK, but not as good as the previous two. I haven't heard much about the last novel, Rama Revealed, but I think I've had enough already.
Again, I just didn't remember things the way the book presents them.
In this book the family has reached the Node, been informed by the aliens that they are to be studies as are all other species the aliens can find anywhere in the universe.
The society crumbles, things are destroyed, and the family finally escapes to another part of the spacecraft to prevent executions and prosecutions.
Now into the last part and it's as exciting as the first time I read it 15 years ago.
First, two men should not presume to write first person from a female perspective - even if one of those men claims to have bounced the story off of his wife; the first quarter of the book was in the form of diary entries of a carryover female character from Rama II...and reminded me of early sci-fi sexism.
I think I'll need to put some time between this one and Rama Revealed (I'm stubborn - I still intend to read as much Clark this year as I can.)
The third installment gets hung up on humans who aren't that interesting, and predictable themes that don't fit into a series about enigmatic aliens.As strange as it sounds, "The Garden of Rama" needed less of a human element.
Not only does it seem cruel to bring children into the isolation of Rama, but there are so many that it's hard to care about any of the new characters.When more humans arrive it just compounds the problems with the book.
Bringing common themes into Rama just takes away the mystery.
I will read "Rama Revealed," but for now I'm taking a break.
The Garden of Rama is the third installment of a four part series.
It's better than the second book, but nowhere near as good as the first.
- A bit of the mystery that can be found in the first book is re-introduced.On the negative: - The plot quite literally goes nowhere (the ship travels to Sirius only to turn right back around and return to Earth).
- There's quite a bit of cheesy nonsense (Abe Lincoln, Albert Einstein, the Niña, Pinta, and Santa María to name but a few).Since there's one more book I suppose I must press on and finish the series.
Heavens to Murgatroyd and back again! Shamelessly inventive and enjoyable. Less mysterious than Rendezvous with Rama, less confined than Rama II, a grand, grand adventure. Little leggies, I'll miss you.
The second book was more about the personalities and the wonder of an alien spacecraft faded to the background.
Then it moves back into science and the wonder of an alien species.
It then becomes more sociological as the new group of earthlings, heavy with less desirable persons, (almost as if the Earth wants to offload them,) devolve into a classic example of Utopia gone wrong.
It's at this point that it takes a side journey back into alien wonder.
However, I'm invested enough at this point that I want to finish the series.
This book started where the previous book left off. Nicole, Richard, Michael and their families are heading towards a destination unknown. When they get there they are taken off Rama and are tested before being told the next stage of their plan. They are to return to Earth's solar system and gather 2,000 humans and return.This book did lose me a bit in the middle. What it did highlight is the destructive nature of humans and how they view themselves at the centre of everything. I think this was a key point the authors were trying to make.
Average pulp science fiction about the inherent evilness and goodness of humans. "Lord of the Flies" in space, with a dispassionate alien race watching.
This part of the book went on for an interminable 150 or so pages and could have been reduced to 50, if that many.Things get more interesting when Rama II arrives at "The Node," a sort of Deep Space Nine or Babylon Five, in which our jaunty crew meets up with alien life forms and prepares to return to Mars orbit to pick up some (well, thousands) more humans.
Nicole is arrested and convicted of sedition because she speaks out against this baddie and his minions and at the end of the book is condemned to be electrocuted, so that's sort of a cliffhanger.All is not lost, however, as I found the description of the redone Rama craft very interesting, as were the interactions of alternate, very different species.
I think they even did it in a way that the information would not have been redundant had I read the series in the correct order to begin with.
Even by the end of this book, the highly intelligent alien hosts have not truly identified themselves to the humans.
By the middle of the book, the aliens send an emissary that speaks nearly perfect English to inform them they will be helping remodel their part of the craft to accommodate more humans.
The original humans on the craft either go into hiding or are persecuted for trying to keep the others within the parameters the aliens have set.
In space, nobody can get an erection.That's the takeaway from the first third of The Garden Of Rama where the three surviving astronauts (Nicole, Richard, Michael) from Rama II try, and try, and try, and try, to conceive and repopulate the human race as it exists in a giant space tube.
The notion of a unorthodox family unit forming on the Rama spacecraft seemed promising as eventually children are had by Nicole and Richard.
But the train goes off the rails when Nicole decides she REALLY needs to bang Michael to attempt to keep the species going (even though Earth still, like, exists and stuff).
Eventually Nicole and Michael conceive and Richard returns.
* insert eye-roll here* All Nicole cared about are her children, and she was not knowledgeable in hard science, so every time her husband or uncle Michael explain something, she interrupted with something like, “ I don't get that, but you guys are so brilliant!
It also disturbed me that the good girl characters in the book were all shown as pure and naive, and ended up getting married.
You would think no-one had ever been rude to a member of the family before, or argued, except with Katie.* Major spoilers* Basically the martyr Nicole was executed by the big bad corrupt government for opposing them, and the society has gone to shit.
What can I say about this volume, it is a fascinating examination of what happens to the crew of Rama II.
How the crew has children, becomes a multiple parent system with half-brothers/sisters.That was all in the first third of the book and was extremely mind blowing as a reader trying to figure out what you would have done in their shoes.
It seems his writing style just doesn’t hold to the beginning of the book.I still want to see where book four goes, but for me this was a tough one to finish and I would not really recommend it.
As with Clarke's other books, I found this to be a serious page turner and got through it in a handful of sittings.
What Clarke and Lee do wrong here is stuff the book up with flashbacks to flesh out main characters.
The authors should have relied more on pages of action and dialogue, which they do better but which frequently seemed abridged.
Similarly, more time should have been spent developing the human colony through richer secondary characters.
As interesting as things get in the colony, it ultimately becomes only one of several forces driving the action.
Enjoyed reading about the parts about Rama, totally disliked the whole human parts of it and specially towards the end.
(view spoiler)[And hated how suddenly when people are found alone on strange lands/ships/planets where they might never see another living person, they immediately think "Oh my, how are we EVER gonna populate this place?
Lets get it on!"Nevermind at the point they still could have explored a lot more of Rama's secrets, or minded their survival even more than they did, or even tried to interact more with other species, etc.
No no, lets propagate our species first.Also totally miffed about insertion of typical human reaction ("shoot first, ask later").
Вторият том на “Рама” превръща фантастичната сага във фамилна драма”Градината на Рама” проследява приключенията на тримата космонавти, които бяха “отвлечени” от втория космически кораб, който напуска Слънчевата система веднага след безуспешния опит на земляните да го унищожат с ядрен удар. Напускайки орбитата на нашата звезда, “Рама II” се устремява към новата си дестинация, а земляните трябва да намерят начин да се устроят в една странна, враждебна среда.http://knigolandia.info/book-review/r...
Ya que hay que valorarlo en una escala sobre 5 se queda en un tres, pero bastante más próximo a un 4 que el anterior. En mi opinión, mejor narrado, con conflictos mejor planteados, y más interesante en general.
Rendezvous with Rama was unquestionably brilliant.I endured Rama II because I wanted to read all four books.The writing and the characters in this book just got more and more perfect as it continued on. It got unendurable.Abandoned.
Bu kitapla birlikte serinin sonuna kadar bir aile öyküsünü de deneyim etmeye başlıyorsunuz. İkinci kitapta okuyucuya sevdirilen ve okuyucunun önemsemesi istenilen karakterlerin motivasyonları mükemmel bir kurguyla aktarılıyor.
