https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/340273.Language
But the books neglects to define some of the basic technical terms that a beginner needs, so that it also seems like a summary aimed at a scholar who has spent several years in the field.The book is about 90 years old, so I don’t know how much has changed in the field since then, but McWhorter recommended it, so I suppose it must still be current.Sapir’s erudition is colossal.
He really seems to know what he is talking about.Something that I thought was amusing was Sapir’s discussion of the word “whom”.
I'd give it a higher rating, but the sections on phonetic law and its various classifications went over my head. However, the chapters that were more grounded in sociology and aesthetics were fantastic. Still, as a layman I found Sapir's writing very accessible despite the technical sections. I'm guessing some of this stuff is outdated, but it was definitely worth reading.
Read Lenguaje, Raza y Cultura.
It is rather easy to dismiss what E. Sapir started in the study of linguistics if we only understand this science in the aftermath of L. Bloomfield or N. Chomsky; however, Sapir's proposal for a new perspective on grammatical processes underlies every single typological and morpho–syntactical theory nowadays.
I'm not giving this book a rating because I'm in no way qualified to judge it. It is a very technical book that will appeal to people who like to look at structures and formulas and find that a helpful way to look at the world. For me it was utterly exhausting, and I gave up fairly quickly.
Deserves a lot of respect for being one of the pioneering works in the field of linguistics, but all the information it contains is available in much more readable works that have been published since. For linguistics majors only.
This book may have been very good for what it is, but I had a lot of trouble getting through even the first chapter and ultimately didn't finish it. This book isn't really a "read for pleasure" type of book, or at least, it wasn't to me.
This was a good book but not a great one. While the word is that this is a good primer to linguistics, I found it to be cumbersome where it most needed clarity. It was mercifully playful in some areas, though, reflecting on language as art.
A fantastic short, deep plunge into the nature of language and speech. A wonderful intro to the field of linguistics.
Obviamente, en español.
I not only read this book but also revised the translation. Its revision has a long history. It was my prof who translated it and asked me to revise it.
Essential linguistics classic
It's historically interesting and surprisingly modern.
