https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177927.Dragonseye
That is a lot of time in between each fall of thread.
With so much time it is understandable that some begin to question if thread will ever fall again.
One of those that doesn't believe thread fall will return is a cruel Lord Holder.
A lot of the story is around this despicable and cruel man.
I loved getting to know the other Lord Holders and the Dragon riders who are all getting ready for the thread fall to come.
It is a lot for these people to take with never having faced thread before and having to train and get ready for something that is so frightening.
I guess it didn't scream BUY ME I'M ABOUT DRAGONS enough to the American audience.Every Pern book I read, I wonder if it is going to be the last.
If you introduce 15 characters within a chapter, I'm not going to remember every detail, that's just how it is.
And there is never another novel set in the second pass, so most of those characters are wasted.
Do not read unless you are more fanatic of Anne McCaffrey's works than I am.Edit: 4 years laterThis was the last Pern novel I could stomach.
Dragonseye recounts the time just before the Second Pass of Thread.The plot is ultimately centered on preparing for Thread which involves getting Chalkin, Lord Holder of Bitra, to comply.
Chalkin refuses to believe Thread is coming because there is always that person, on Pern or on Earth.When Iantine takes a job to paint Lord Chalkin and his family, everyone warns him.
Meanwhile, the other Lords and dragonriders discuss how to make Chalkin see his wrong.I thought Iantine's parts were the most interesting part of the book by far.
I can't tell you how many times I've read this series.
Just read this title again, and it still doesn't disappoint.
Telepathic dragons, strong female characters, great relationships, and the Harpers' guild and music as a strong guiding force.
In hindsight, I still enjoy reading the series in order written (versus actual chronological order of events).
I especially like how McCaffrey shifts her point of view in different books, retelling the same events from someone else's perspective.
This title retells events from before the second pass of Thread, after "Dragonsdawn," and before "Dragon's Kin." On to the next Pern title!
If there ever was a beautifully realised fantasy world Pern is it. Everything hangs together perfectly and the place is believable. The stories are, maybe, brain candy, but we need some of that in our world.Love it
Just going by my personal Pern favorites, I think McCaffrey does her best work when packing a standalone story into a standalone book.
Set all by itself in the 3rd century of the planet's history, McCaffrey's forced to invent an all new cast of characters and flesh them out.
Debra and Iantine, the entire cast of teachers and doctors, the vile Bitrans...
The book explores how a wise group of people can face up to a civilization's challenges and proactively work to keep society on a good track, which sounds as dull as the Fountainhead, in theory, but the action and adventure, and aforementioned characterization, makes this work.
Dit is weer een geweldig boek en de laatste die vertaald is in het Nederlands. Ik heb echt van deze serie genoten. En nu op zoek naar de andere niet vertaalde delen.
Reread
It's 258 AL, 258 years after landing, in the Dragonriders of Pern fantasy series.The StoryI do love McCaffrey's Dragonriders series and I'm afraid I spent more time cataloging the differences than I did analyzing the story.Changes are occurring in this Second Pass of Thread.
The Duty Song is written as well as other songs to help people remember what they owe to each other, to their Lords Holder, the weyrs, and the protections within their Contract.
I can't believe I let McCaffrey's Dragonriders of Pern escape me for this long!McCaffrey did the most amazing work of writing/creating this whole new culture.
"The main plot of this Pern novel, set just prior to the Second Pass of thread, is about a despotic Lord Holder who refuses to believe the danger is real.
The second pass is coinciding with the breakdown of the last of Pern's advanced technology - they have a few computers, but all are on their last legs.
Several characters are busy reinventing substitutes such as the abacus and the fountain pen.
The characters involved in this plot - mostly educators and musicians - are much more well-rounded, with both strengths and weaknesses.
Four starts because it was indeed above average.
This is not the first time I read a summary of a Pern novel, thought it sounded boring, and was pleasantly impressed by the book.
However, there were way too many characters in this book; I thought it was even worse than most of the others.
I finished the book and I still don't know who many of them were!
Regardless, it was a wonderful story that drew me in and made me wonder how everything would work out.And I do think Red Star Rising is a better title than Dragsonseye.
The "Dragon" titles get confusing!
Dragonseye (Pern, #14)McCaffrey, AnneMccaffrey, Todd Todd pern side interpenetrated by Maccaffrey's and his first attempt at helping to write in the series. Through the dragons view of things they are able to combat prejudice and create meaningful changes in their world, and most of all save pern from destruction in future generations .the story of the rebuilding of pern after the devastation, and the beginning of the weirs
I think this might be one of my most favorite settings for the Pern books: second pass, when there's still some memory of technology and understanding of their roots, though I do also love the first pass, when even with all that technology they still can't quite defeat the menace of Thread.
The principal thrust of this novel is to fill in how the colonists lost technology, built the foundation (literally) for the Harper Hall and created the "eye rock" and "finger rock" that announce the coming of the Red Star and Thread.McCaffrey's villains are typically two-dimensional and this novel is no exception with Chalkin, the Lord Holder of Bitra, filling the role.
Paulin, as Lord Holder of Fort is a fine character as well as the principal actors in the College (forebears of the Harper Hall), Clisser, Sheledon, Jemmy, and Bethany.It's a fun read, but it really misses having a good dramatic story to fuel it.
Impeachment is the only option, but first the other holders and the dragonriders must assemble enough proof to convince all the holders, since impeachment requires a unanimous vote.In addition, the few remaining computers die, causing the head of the college to rethink the planet's teaching methods, as well as the content of the courses — after all, why should the inhabitants of Pern learn the ancient history from before their planet was colonized?
As well, a method of predicting just exactly when a Pass is imminent is necessary, now that most of the scientific equipment is no longer operational.
I think partially because there was no one focus, especially of character.
However, I loved reading about how the Pernese settled on concepts such as using music to set basic history, law and other concepts in kids' minds.
I think one of my disappointments is that McCaffrey described the origins of the Eye and Finger Rock but doesn't show it in action.
Bitra and Bitrans just do not seem to learn from history!
They continue to have a bad reputation in many of the books of the Pern series.
I'm glad I reread it and I'm keeping the book as part of the series.
I read most of the series about 20 years ago in publication order.Stopped before I got to this book.I'm now reading the complete series in chronological order, making this the third book.I found this book pleasant and enjoyable enough to read.
It doesn't really add that much background to the original couple of trilogies - not as much as Dragonsdawn.
The characters were likable enough, but I had a feeling of deja vu and think they will be remarkably similar to Lessa etc in the 'later' books.
This almost feels like a 'reboot' that never made it past one book.Anyhow, on to Dragon's Kin and the Todd/Anne written books before back to Moretta.
Another reread.I remember when this book first came out, how excited I was for a brand new Pern story. But I wound up being disappointed with the plot. A decade or so later, my feelings about this novel remain the same: I would have rather read an entire novel about what it was like for post-colonial female green riders than the whole drama about Chalkin and the installation of the Eye and Finger Rocks. It was as boring then as it was now. Only this time I realize how little time I got to spend with Debera, Morath, and Iantine.
Peen is preparing for the Second Pass of the Red Star.
Everyone is gearing up for the return of Thread, except for Chalkin of Bitra.
What will the Weyrleaders and Lord Holders do to make him prepare his Hold?At the College, Clisser realizes that Pern needs a new system of education, one grounded in what is important on Pern, not on long-forgotten Earth.
Accordingly, he sets out to change how and what people are taught, especially how to know when a Pass is imminent.
Once Thread begins to fall, the dragons take to the skies, breathing fire to protect the surface of Pern.
Love this series of books. It's one of my all time favourites. I decided to re-read the entire Dragonriders of Pern series and over the past couple of months, I have been working my way through them all. Anne McCaffrey has such a wonderful, boundless imagination and such a vivid and descriptive style, her stories transport the reader into the fantastic world that she created and sweeps you up on the breathtaking adventures. Spellbinding!
I enjoyed this glimpse into my reading past. Anne McCaffrey was one of the first fantasy authors I read, and certainly the first female fantasy author for me! I fell in love with Pern back when I was a teen, and this book was like easing into a warm, familiar bath. I enjoyed re-visiting Pern, especially at a time when the colonists were trying to make a life with failing tech left over by the Founders.
I have been reading (and rereading) Anne McCaffrey's dragonrider series for decades and I somehow missed this volume until I saw it at the library a short while ago.Written a couple of decades after the original trilogy, I wondered if the author was losing attention to detail. I found a few inconsistencies presented in the story, sometimes from one page to the next.But, loving the Pern landscape and tales I consumed this volume as well, but it won't be worth a re-read.
This is my second time of reading this series & is much better than the first because I'm now able to read the books in Perntime. As I'm reading them I am transported to that world. I can almost feel the dragons and the wind as they are flying. I wish to be there and feel as though I am experiencing that world
This story has nothing new in it that hasn't happened in other Pern books. There's some new characters, of course, but since all of McCaffrey's characters end up feeling the same, it doesn't really matter. It took me a fair amount of time to get through this since I just didn't care enough about any of it to keep going. It's not terrible, just repetitive if you've read all the other books.
Anne McCaffrey is always great for reading on a commute. I really enjoyed meeting some different characters to those present in the 'main' chronology, and I find it interesting to see how she clearly developed and changed her outlook as time went on.
Anne McCaffrey is the quintessential writer of fantasy books pertaining to dragons. These books are always wonderful, well written, and perfectly characterized. All of her series are great but the ones that take place on Pern are the best of all. A thoroughly fun and engaging read.
Chronologically, I should have read this one before Moreta. It wasn’t bad. I liked what they did to the rapists and Chalkin. That blue rider got on my nerves sometimes, but I liked Ian and most of the weyer leaders.
This was my second read and I have to admit I forgot how much I enjoyed the book. I was left a little wanting. There were a couple of story lines that could have been fleshed out with a bit more. But overall a good story by Anne.
Excellent read.If you enjoy SciFi, fantasy, with some romance & drama I would recommended these books. Can be read as stand alone books. I do recommend reading them in order if possible in the order of events as happened on Perm.
interesting addition to the Pern series, going back in time and showing how certain traditions were established as they transitioned from techno-dependent to more medieval practices.
