https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/680543.Forbidden_Journey
The something that counted in and against all particularisms was the magnificent scheme of things that we call the world."Forbidden Journey, Maillart's account of the trip that her travel companion Peter Fleming described in his book News from Tartary, was a bit of a revelation.
I learned so much from this book - not just about the journey, China and the cultures of the Chinese in the 1930s, but also about perspectives and how they change - or stay the same over time.Of course, Forbidden Journey describes the same trip from Beijing across China and into India via Kashmir that Fleming's more widely known account does.
She traveled with Peter Fleming - yes, the very brother of Ian Fleming who of course wrote the James Bond books.
Peter and Ella were very different in character, beyond the fact that she was Swiss and he British.
It was in fact Ella who agree to let Peter accompany her on hertrip; she points this out very clearly in the book!
She travels across the Tibetan plateau, through Xinjiang (a part of Turkestan) and over the Himalayas.
Turkestan was not politically stable, there being conflicting Japanese, Chinese, Russian and British interests.
I loved Maillart's intrepid spirit and equally was entranced by the wild open spaces which she encountered on her great journey into the west of China, and the extraordinary range of cultures and people that she met along the way.
More disparate travelling companions could not have been found, and yet the journey worked.
I'd recommend this read to anyone who wants to know what China was like in the immediate years before the spread of Communism, and anyone else who loves the idea of wide open spaces and the chance to travel freely in the face of all obstacles.
This account has a bit of all the best things about the best travel writing: observation of customs and peoples, including honest but tactful accounts of travel companions, historical information, and vivid nature writing.
For those who aren’t aware, Forbidden Journey, by Ella Maillart and News From Tartary by Peter Fleming both describe the same journey, at the same time, taken together.
We enjoyed it very much.”Both these books were written in a fairy humble, self-deprecating way, something I hadn’t expected from Fleming in particular.
I had found his One's Company: A Journey to China in 1933 written quite pretentiously, and I hadn’t enjoyed it much at all.
To say that the journey of Maillart and Fleming was an inspiration for dozens of other intrepid travellers is no exaggeration.Great books.
I did manage to find this passages online:from Chapter IV "By Lorry":    Comme ceux du Honan, les misérables paysans du Shensi habitent des cavernes qu'ils creusent dans les falaises de terre jaune et poreuse.
(p179, Chapter VI "Cherchen Celebrities")......................To Peter's great joy, Abd Rakhman brought us a folding table on which a typewriter could be placed.
At the end of two hours the yurts looked no bigger than three little brown mushrooms.
une seule chose compte, envers et contre tous les particularismes, c'est l'engrenage magnifique qui s'appelle le monde." - Ella Maillart(Question: Does this count as "China" or "Switzerland" in the 'Reading the World' category?)
It is interesting how much the two books differ, they could almost have been written about different trips!Ella perhaps provides a better narrative of the different people met on the journey, however, what it does lack is the sense of it being a journey.
Whilst, arguably, Peter's book does not spend as much time on the people, it does far better give a sense of a journey with a sense of tension over whether they will succeed or not etc.
Ella Maillart was a Swiss adventurer, journalist and sportswoman, who travelled through some of the remoter areas of Asia through the 1930s.
'Forbidden Journey' is an account of a journey Maillart took with an English journalist from Beijing to Xinjiang (also known as Sinjiang or Chinese Turkestan) and then on to India.
Xinjiang is the westernmost province of China which was, during the 1930s, a semi-independent state, politically unstable and under the influence of both the Soviet Union and the British.
Much of the political background of the book could be difficult to follow, but the descriptions of the journey and the people are fascinating and Maillart is an entertaining and enjoyable writer.
With Fleming's The News From Tartary a unique journey by train, truck and on horse/pony/camel-back across the Chinese Turkestan of the 1930s. This is the partner volume to Fleming's book. Two viewpoints, one unbeleivable nature hike.
Fantastic woman. Just read Peter Flemings account and so was fascinated by the other view point.
This fascinating book, however, offers the perfect journey to the region for an armchair traveler because it recounts a journey made at a time when a journey from Peking, as it then was, to Srinagar, India took you through the area when the native tribes and ethnic groups lived a traditional often nomadic life largely able to ignore mandates from Peking, pursue trade with whomever their closest neighbors were and repel by force any group tried to threaten its domain and alliances.
Just to get the giddy, ridiculous flattery out of the way - I LOVED Forbidden Journey.
Loved it.I stumbled upon this book through a Goodreads list for travel journals written by women in the early 20th century (very specific, but that was what I was looking for).
There just simply aren't many travel books by women during this time period (and the ones that do exist are incredibly hard to find).
Ella Maillart was a journalist by trade, and in Forbidden Journey, it shows.
That being said, if you are a Kapuscinski fan, you will absolutely love Maillart.
Il s'agit de traverser la Chine d'est en ouest, d'atteindre les oasis interdites du Sinkiang, berceau voici mille ans d'une vieille culture d'origine arménienne, et de là gagner le Cachemire, sur l'autre versant du monde, par les cols muletiers du Pamir et du Karakoram.
Clandestinement, car le Turkestan chinois, dont la population est en majorité musulmane, est en plein soulèvement...Quel contraste prodigieux que de sauter de vingt à deux mille kilomètres par jour sans transition!
Les siècles d'histoire, les berceaux des regilions, tout me semble si marassé su run petit espace, après que de Pékin aux Indes, l'Asie m'ait paru sans fin.
I love this book. Cannot recommend enough for lovers of fantasy fiction as well as historical or travel stories. This is a real life journey through a vanished world, describing the sorts of things people in fairy tales do all the time.
One thing that really stood out to me in reading The Forbidden Journey was how Maillart characterizes Peter Fleming (her companion on this trip who wrote a book about the same journey).
Maillart's voice is very strong, incorporating cultural and historical information alongside what must have been a trip quite unlike any taken today.
That alone made the reading interesting to me but Maillart has an anthropologist's eye for details wherever she goes as is demonstrated in her other book "The Cruel Way" and provides a unique perspective on the people she meets and the sights she sees.
I really enjoy reading about adventure, especially those by women, and this one is a classic.
At this point they are no longer on foot, or dragging camels or donkeys or horses, but after months of grueling, dangerous travel she throws off forty miles like it was nothing.
Next up, to read Peter Fleming's account of the same journey and compare them.
They couldn't have done it without each other though they usually traveled solo.
The introduction to this volume commented that Peter got the best of the bargain.
A lovely travelogue of an interesting region of the world. The writing reminded me of Freya Stark's travelogues, but for some reason, I was much more engaged reading Ella Maillart's story. I actually Google mapped her trek outlined in the book, and it is amazing she made this journey in the 1930's. An inspiration for traveling to remote places and experiencing different cultures.
Fleming's "The Road to Tartary" tells of the same journey. Like Fleming, Maillart makes light of the many difficulties and is an astute observer of the characters and the terrain. It's fun to meet Fleming again, portrayed here as an impatient but charming man.
Un voyage dans un monde perdu
Probably a very interesting book but I am not a fiction reader
