https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3063499-the-lucky-one
Damn, I really can't understand why I even started reading Sparks in the first place.
This book was so full of stereotypes, it was awful.
I mean, the guy was, of course, handsome, attractive, great with kids, a good craftsman, and surprise - surprise, he even could play the piano!
The woman was beautiful, sensitive, a great mum, a talented cook, bla bla bla...
But what really sucks is that Sparks seems to have a very soft spot for soldiers since 9/11.
*doubleyawn* I will never understand the American idealism about their soldiers.
At least, Thibault doesn’t have the same personality as John so it’s wasn’t like I saw him instead of Thibault while reading.
Although, as we all know, Nicholas Sparks likes to write about the characters background and really want to make us connect in a way to them so, yeah, many descriptions.
At first, it bored me but, after those 65 pages, it all goes well and the reading begins to feel nice and enjoyable.Beth is a good girl, someone I actually related to because she didn't date many guys or slept with many either.
If you like Nicolas Sparks, this book is one of his best.
Personally, when it comes to one of his stories, I always read the ending first before buying his books.
Sure, it's a spoiler but he has stung me too many times by killing off a main character, turning a wonderful love story into a rediculous tragedy that leaves the reader grieving instead of rejoicing.
There is enough pain in real life without inflicting it needlessly in a sappy book.
I read to escape and find some joy in fantasy.
This one ended a bit over-dramatically but it all in all, it ended well; so I bought it.
Dog lovers and fans of The Guardian in particular will appreciate this engaging romantic suspense.One of the great (or not so great) things about Nicholas Sparks is that he doesn’t always give you a happy ending and it was with this in mind that about half way through -just as the flood waters started to rise, secrets began boiling to the surface and I was completely invested in the characters and their budding love story, I began to get nervous for the ending.
A typical NS book, which seems like a gender-reversal of "Message in a Bottle". It was an easy escape read, and the characters are all well developed. I actually hated reading the chapters on Clayton! What a creep! I love Zeus, who had a great handle on character reading!Almost feel that NS is becoming a bit Danielle Steeleish in his writing...formula, token sex, surprise of who died/lived.All in all...not a bad book for a cold weekend!
Problem is, I have a real love/hate relationship with Nicholas Sparks.
I read books to escape the sadness, drama and sometimes craziness of life.
I swear, every other time I read a Sparks book I swear I'll never read another.
I don't like it when people find true love and then one of them dies or does something stupid so they're ripped apart forever (Dear John anyone?.
As I was reading reviews I saw a lot of people complaining that this book was very stereotypical.
Well, that's probably true, but those are the books Sparks writes and most people like him for that.
“She was struck by the simple truth that sometimes the most ordinary things could be made extraordinary, simply by doing them with the right ppl.”I really liked this one, simply a lovable great story, not perfect there were a few things that irked me about the story but besides that it was a great read.
this book not for me cuz i'm not emotional person or search for romantic stories , i'm tough girl :D
Nicholas Sparks is not a good writer. His dialogue is completely flat, and it doesn't help when he throws in comments such as "he liked her wit" when nothing at all witty had been said. I can only imagine he is working toward a certain word count when he describes every step of making tacos and homemade ice cream. I've heard that he disdains the label of romance author for himself, but most romance authors I read can write circles around him.
Creo que Nicholas Sparks es mi autor favorito sin yo misma saberlo. Mi relación con él es bastante tensa, porque lo odio con todo mi corazón por esos finales tan crueles en sus libros, pero lo amo con toda mi alma por todas las historias de amor tan maravillosas que ha creado.Y tengo que decirlo o explotaré: ¡Por fin un final feliz!
He is also good with pacing, using smooth and lyrical words during romantic moments and quick and terse words in the more suspenseful moments.However...There are few things more irritating than a writer who feels the need to explain everything to his reader.
It is as if Sparks caters to a demographic of readers who do not want to think and just want to enjoy a book.
But I was not.The book gets three stars, however, because I did enjoy the story.
Maybe one day when I just want to read a good story with predictable characters, no surprises, and that makes me say, "Gee, that was nice" but probably won't stick with me long after I've finished it.
I have read several Nicholas Sparks novels and I put this one in the category of "True Believer" and its sequel, "At First Sight".By now the author pretty much has a formula which he follows in most of his books: always set it his home state of North Carolina, there is always a storm where the plot twists and/or reaches its climax, someone usually dies, and the couples always fall in love and end up in bed--usually, boring, uninteresting sex ensues.
This 14th novel is no different.Logan Thibault is an ex-marine in search of a woman whose photo he's been carrying for the past five years.
Whenever I go to read a Nicholas Sparks book my first (and usually only) question to anyone who has read it is "Am I going to cry?" I ask this because in many of Spark's novels the main character dies in the end often in a tragic way.
However, Sparks has such a rich and inviting writing style that even with these reoccurring tragic endings, I can't help but fall in love with any and all of his books.
The characters come alive and the love stories are magical, yet real at time.
It is a beautiful story with strong, animated characters.
Thank you Nicholas Sparks for the heart attack you almost caused me with that ending!
I was this close ( ) to lose my mind over Logan.It's a beautiful story, beautifully written, and very enjoyable, it evokes faith, luck, destiny, all gathered in a former marine's life, and his journey to accomplish what had started in his life because of a photograph.IDK why!
And I found myself sticking my tongue like a child at Keith in different parts of the book.
Nicholas Sparks resides in North Carolina with his wife and family.While in his third tour of duty in Iraq, U.S. Marine Logan Thibault happens upon a half-buried photograph of a beautiful young woman, simply known as E.
He didn’t have any illusions of what might await him, but he sure wasn’t expecting the instant attraction to Elizabeth, the sincere fondness for her Nana, the friction with her ex, Clayton, or to fall immediately in love with her ten-year-old son, Ben. Pursuing the path he chose and attraction for Beth, they ignite a passionate affair of the heart, never knowing that the secret of how he came about the photo could destroy everything he had waited his entire life to find.True to form, and with a power-house ending, it’s no secret why Nicholas Sparks has captivated readers worldwide for some time now.
it's just crazy.Then there's fun little stupid things like when Nicholas Sparks has Elizabeth planting thousands of tulips and daffodils every spring, so they can come up after the azaleas.
and tulips are the FIRST things that come up, along with crocus and daffodils.
The man drives me crazy.And I'm not even sure I want to see the movie.
The book says Logan got a degree in anthropology, has done three tours of duty as a Marine in Iraq, has 'wild' hair and a vagabond appearance and "doesn't look like a college student"...
You have GOT to be kidding me.And yet all of his books become movies.
Okay, so this book followed my reading of The Story of Edgar Sawtelle.
The creepy cop ex-husband didn't help my desire to continue reading, either.
Trite.
Trite and that it left me feeling let-down.
That being said, I read the book in a day....I kept wanting to be done with it and get it over with.
While it was a rather harmless, quick-read romance, (which I like at times), I don't think I'll read another of Sparks' books.
I had liked previous books by him.
My husband is better-looking by far.
I am noticing a pattern in Sparks' books though which is kinda disappointing because I have enjoyed the few that I've read, but it seems like they always contain the same core elements.One thing that annoyed me in this book (which, I realize, has nothing to do with the storyline at all) is that when they are making homemade ice cream, Sparks lists the ingredients they are adding which include a cup of flour.
You don't put flour in homemade ice cream!
Other than that, I always notice spelling errors in Sparks' books that a simple proofread could have easily corrected.
Started off a little slow, maybe because he spent so much time introducing the characters.
It just got a little old and before I knew it I was 1/2 way through the book and not much had happened.
But good thing you don't read the beginning last.I did like the story, I'm a sap for romance, I loved the character Logan.On a side note I couldn't get past some of the writing.
And maybe I don't know enough about writing, but there was a phrase used that didn't seem to fit in the spot it was used.
Ok I'm dumb for thinking way too much into this.I liked the book.
I always enjoy re-reading this book
“It was their secret, a secret meant for just the two of them, and she'd never been able to imagine how it would sound coming from someone else. But, somehow, Logan made it sound just right.” Such a great book.I really liked the whole concept of this book,it's very interesting.Logan is such an amazing character,he's pretty much my new fictional crush.But I do agree that he should have told Elizabeth about the photo as soon as he met her,that would make both his and her life so much easier.Eliza
But, somehow, Logan made it sound just right.”
You recognize it instinctively, and you're certain that no matter what happens, there will never be another one like him.” “Good and bad, strengths and faults, he was hers forever.” “Doesn't surprise me," Nana snorted.
Una historia de como el destino nos sorprende y nos guía hacia el amor verdadero.

Crowned king of the romance, emperor of the love stories that hit you where it hurts the most.
Okay, and maybe the fact that I loved Thibault since page one.
But rather than show the awaited moment where these 2 main characters finally give up to the sparks (pun intented), he just tells the reader.Literally, "and then they kissed and made love" or "and then they saw each other for a few weeks".
Which is okay, but also underwhelming.But don't be fooled, I still love Logan Thibault and I still enjoyed The Lucky One.Rating: 3.5/5
It should be noted that while I enjoy a good romance as much as the next girl, I try VERY hard to avoid cheese.
I'll admit it; I read that series.) In fact, I was once forced by my little sister to watch the movie, The Notebook, and I have never laughed so hard in my life.
But, I digress...Not only is the story cheesy, but Mr. Sparks seems to follow a cookie cutter pattern for his books, as well.
Admittedly, I haven't read any of his other books, but enough of them have been made into movies that I've picked up the general gist.
To all of you who enjoy Nicholas Sparks' books, I'm sorry.
The famous Nicholas Sparks creates yet another amazing tale of lovers.Driven by luck and determination, Logan Thibult is in a search for a woman in a photograph that he found serving war in iraq.
She's lonely because her ex-husband threatens all of her suitors and she feels as if she should give up on love once and for all.Logan then comes into her life and she experiences for the first time many things that she never had the chance to do.
Logan faces the trouble of trying to tell her the reason why he's truly there and in the meantime falls in love with her.I recommend this book to individuals who enjoy romance...basically any Nicholas Sparks fan.
Všechny knihy od pana Sparkse mám prostě strašně ráda :-) A u Talismanu to bylo také tak.
Je to velice jemný, milý, citlivý a romantický příběh, který se krásně čte.
Celkově Sparksův styl psaní mám moc ráda, jeho knihy se mi čtou velice dobře!
V téhle knížce se mi líbila přítomnost pejsků (Zoro - pejsek hlavního hrdiny - je prostě skvělý :-) ).
Mohla bych tedy říct, že bych tuhle knihu doporučila i milovníkům pejsků...Příběh není nikterak náročný, asi je i lehce předvídatelný, ale Sparks umí lámat srdce vejpůl a já osobně jsem ráda, že v téhle knize ten konec...
This is the first Nicholas Sparks book I've read and I'll look for another.
This book grabbed me from the first chapter, clearly written and intriguing characters and, even though I had a pretty good idea of where the plot was going and didn't really have any surprises, I still really enjoyed the story and how it was told.Logan Thiebault is a great character and I really wanted him to find his way and his HEA.
Without too much detail, his experiences as a marine and how that affected his life were well-told and made him an easier character to understand, even the idea that he didn't really quite understand himself was easy to believe.
When Logan Thibault, a Marine serving in Iraq, finds a picture of a pretty woman in the sand, his friend Vincent considers it to be Thibault's good luck charm.
Once out of the Marines, Thibault tracks down Elizabeth -- the woman in the photo -- by walking -- yes, walking -- from his Colorado home to a small North Carolina town.
But lo, Elizabeth runs a kennel on the side, and Thibault has an awesome German Shepherd.
But Thibault and Elizabeth were even worse...They're pretty.
But it's okay, because, hey, everyone's pretty.There was a tiny light of good dialogue for maybe ten pages between Thibault and Elizabeth.
Cuando se encuentra más perdido de lo que hubiera deseado, decide ir en su busca.
Keith, el ex marido de Elizabeth, también sabe que eso es raro.
Solo por una foto que encontró en la arena.
Como si no concibiera en el mundo un personaje que no tuviera más virtudes que defectos.
Porque como dice, parece que con la edad estaba más bonita que las universitarias con las que Keith salía.
Pero sería una estúpida si pensara que es algo exclusivo de este autor, porque todo el mundo suele caer en los estereotipos.
Esperaba más.Lo que sí, sentí que Logan era de piedra.
