https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7202825-unleashed
This title contains explicit sex between best friends, graphic language--and a hero who knows how to put the hot in "hot tub."This is one of those times when I want to smack myself right upside the head for waiting so long to read a book because, wow, what a fun, emotional, sexy surprise Unleashed turned out to be.
So amazing, so sexy, so wonderful… and Kelsey… my heart ached for what she was going through, but she and Evan made such a great couple and this friends to lovers story touched my heart and made me think that ‘fate’ really does watch out for us.
This was only an OK read for me. Usually I love the whole friends to lovers thing but this was lacking something. The sex scenes were fairly hot. I think the problem for me is when I finish a REALLY good book and then come across a book which I would probably think is quite good, after reading the REALLY good book ... are ya still with me? ... my expectation are way too high and I come away disappointed. I know loads of folks loved this one and kept reading the series. Not so sure I will.
*** 3 ***An OK book for what it is - a contemporary romance with a lot of sex.
I can't give it anything lower than 3 stars because there really isn't anything particularly wrong with the writing or the story, so it fits right in the middle.
If I try to summarize the story, there will be not much left apart from sex for any who would like to read it to discover, so I am going to leave it at that.
I wish you all Happy Reading and many wonderful books to come!
I liked this book, maybe not as much as I liked Rock Me, but there's only one Brian. Evan and Kelsey were really cute together and the sex scenes in the hot tub and in Evan's office were hot! Looking forward to the third book in this series.
The books in this series do not need to be read in order though – they are each stand alones.Basically, Kelsey and Evan have liked each other since they met 10 years ago – but Evan didn’t find himself worthy enough of her and Kelsey was too shy to do anything about it so 10 years later, she finds herself divorced from her husband (who was also Evan’s best friend) because he cheated on her with Evan’s finacee.
Unleashed was, for the most part, an entertaining read. It's a bona fide friends-to-lovers storyline with all the typical, annoying, and at times, frustrating cliché scenarios. The hero was likable and swoon worthy, but I often found myself annoyed with the heroine. She was just a little too martyr-ish for my liking.The chemistry between hero and heroine, however, made for some deliciously hot sex scenes. And that alone made reading this book worthwhile. Overall, Unleashed is a somewhat forgettable book but it still held my interest while reading.
4.5 stars. “I missed you,” she said softly and, though the top of her head only reached his chin, he heard that voice as if it had whispered in his ear. This was right. This was how they should be. He vowed in that moment to never let anyone come between them again. “I missed you, too,” he murmured.Any fans of friends-to-lovers romances out there? If so, this is the book for you! I personally love this type of romance setup, because by default it avoids the immediate-lust trap that I have a str
Things have been a little awkward she and Evan ever since and when he calls to ask her to join him on what would have been his honeymoon to Hawaii, she eventually gives in, hoping this might get their friendship back on track … And maybe this will finally be the right time for something to happen between them.
At the beginning, I wasn’t sure Lynn had written Kelsey and Evan authentically enough, since I was feeling the awkwardness far more than their apparent close friendship of ten years.
I, however, couldn't really stand this book.
It takes some really great writing to make me like a story with pining, especially such that has gone on for a decade.
I think the reason I don't like pining is because of all the angst that goes with it.
He knew she had feelings for him, so he if really cared about her instead of just how much he needed to keep her around as his best friend, he would have done the right thing and stayed away from her.
Evan Ross knows how to treat his woman right!First off, I need to thank Elena, my smut librarian for this recommendation!
Love ya!
Under terrible times, Evan and Kelsey fly off to Hawaii to escape their fuck-up lives.
I will admit, some parts that were a little too mushy for my taste, but it also made the romance believable.And the sex?
Like I said, Evan know how to eat his woman right!
I know this is going to sound weird, but she’s so fucking NICE!
I wish she was a little more of a bitch.
I ended up reading the Ross books backwards, Starting with Rock Me. And I must say, I didn't expect to love Evan so much.
His best friend since college is Kelsey, who used to be married to his best friend since childhood until she caught her husband in bed with Evan's fiancee...good grief!
When Evan realized that his honeymoon tickets to Hawaii are just going to go unused, he decided that both he and Kelsey need to get away from it all.
And when Evan and Kelsey finally give in, yummy!
Once again, Cherrie Lynn hits all the right sexual buttons.
Evan and Kelsey are old friends. Kelsey caught her husband with Evan's fiancee in their bed. Obviously Kelsey gets divorced and Evan breaks off the engagement. There is just a matter of Evan's nonrefundable Hawaii honeymoon... he decides to take his old friend Kelsey. Sparks fly and they realize they are much more than friends... due to other issues they get called back from trip early, some drama there but the ending does not dissapoint. I have to say If you like this PLEASE read 'Rock Me' about Evan's brother Brian... my literary boyfriend love him!
This book has been on my TBR list for a while, and it was worth the wait. I loved this book. I read Rock Me, not knowing there was another book related to it. Evan and Kelsey were a great couple, but was a little irritated with Kelsey's ex-husband and the interference his presence played in Evan and Kelsey's relationship. Other than that, I had no complaints. I had a hard time putting the book down, and stayed up way to late reading it. I can't wait to read other books from this author.
It should be.Unleashed is a story about two friends who turned into lovers.
So they go on Evan's honeymoon trip to Hawaii because he doesn't want to waste it.Throughout the book their chemistry, hearts, crushes, feelings, and everything else basically exploded.
and nowhere else.Things ended up getting in the way when Kelsey's ex gets hurt - so they go back home for some bizarre reason.
AND I'm beyond happy that Kelsey and Evan finally got their happy ending.The one thing that definitely threw me and twin off was the title.
but I still ended up liking the book.
If the heroine hadn't have spent half the book crying and whining about her ex to the hero this would have been an okay read, but as it was their story felt overshadowed by the past and her 'cry me a river' scenes.
Ive read Rock Me before Unleashed. And i had this impression that Evan was stiff, too strict and too bossy with a big brother attitude... but i love him in this one! I'm a sucker of bff turns to lover thing...i love their drama and discovering that what you've searching all along is right by your side...yay!!!LOL Evan was Kelsey's bestfriend who is also the bestfriend of his husband Todd, who kelsey caught having sex with Evan's fiancee Courtney.. Then there's the divorce, cancelled wedding &amp
but i love him in this one!
I'm a sucker of bff turns to lover thing...i love their drama and discovering that what you've searching all along is right by your side...yay!!!LOL
Then there's the divorce, cancelled wedding & honeymoon ticket to Hawaii...in which Evan decided to invite Kelsey to spend with him than go to waste..and together they unleashed all the secrets that they hold from the past and all the tension that they feel for each other..LOLA lot of steamy actions between friends and a bunch of chessy stuff to make you want a best friend like Evan..a must read!♥
This is a strong 3-stars. Well developed characters and only slightly outrageous angst. Long-time friends to lovers - why did we wait so long? Friends and family confuse everything. Moderately hot sex scenes, with lots of warmth and snuggling.I'll read the next in the series.
I was expecting a late night so I could finish this, but instead I made the kids look after themselves so I could get this finished at a reasonable hour.
Plus I didn't want to stop reading this.If the main characters had communicated a little better there relationship would have been so much better, and they wouldn't of wasted years apart.
That would of made for a very boring story though, and I would of missed out on reading this wonderful, feel good romance.I truly enjoyed this much more than I thought I would, and it leaves me wanting to read Brians story again before I read book 3.
Omg, i loved this book!! It was sooooo sweet and sexy as all get out!! Loved the whole friends to lovers theme. Loved that Evan and Kelsie had secretly been pining away for each other for ten years but remained nothing more than super close friends through other relationships, and a failed marriage. Everything they suffered through made their HEA, in the end, sooo much sweeter!! Loved it!!!
This is such a great and beautiful story. I couldn't help but fall in love with Evan Ross. The chemistry he and Kelsey share, just blew me away, and it certainly got the little heartstring into a flutter. Girls, you were so right, I did love this one!
December 2013 reread.Don't get me wrong. My love for Brian Ross and his bad ass, fierce ways means Candace is one lucky bitch! I sometimes forget just how much Evan Ross rocked my world with this first book, though. Great time for a re-read!
What a sweet romance story!!!!
I loved Evan and Kelsey's story.
As a serial monogamist, Evan, liked attachment but never quite felt fulfilled after long time college friend the beautiful and sweet Kelsey, met and married his best friend Todd Jacobs.
With Kelsey now divorced and still pining for her supposed unrequited love for Evan...
I loved the way the story played out.
Evan was so sweet and swoony, not perfect...
I loved the ending, and look forward to reading the next book in the series, Rock Me. Brian, Evan's brother sounds very intriguing as well.
I loved the book!!!
I've read this series backwards and am surprised by how different this was from the second and third book. It's pretty conventional and sweet, but forgettable. I liked the friends-to-lovers theme, and enjoyed the dynamic between the two leads, but the history between the two led to too much martyr behavior and weepiness from the heroine. I think I would have enjoyed a longer time period for the romance. Everything felt too quick.
There’s a special place in hell for Todd and Courtney, that’s for sure!Even Ross is all male.
After the breakup with his fiancé he finds himself with feelings for his best friend but he couldn’t possibly act on them, could he?
She’s his best friend and the only one he wants around but with feelings from both sides poking around what could possibly happen in a beautiful place, whilst alone in Hawaii?
There’s heartbreak and sadness with loving and tenderness and it was great to read.
It’s a book about love and second chances at finding the one who makes your heart beat like crazy.
Evan was not worried he had lost his fiance' but he was concerned for his long time friend Kelsey, trying to give her space and yet be there for her he figures enough time has passed that she needs a push to start her life again.Evan invites Kelsey on the honeymoon he never took as friends, but Evan quickly finds that he wants Kelsey a lot more than friends.
When they realize they have been missing out on something special all hell breaks loose and loyalties are questioned.I thought this had the makings of a fantastic story.
I read the Ross Siblings books out of order, so I read Rock Me first.
I really didn't think anything/anyone could beat Brian Ross.
That book was a lemon bonanza and I immediately fell for Brian.
I held off a bit before reading Unleashed because I thought it would pale in comparison to Rock Me, but to me it was actually better!
I thought there was such a sweet, amazing story behind Evan and Kelsey's love.
It had all the lemons you could want at all the right spots but I just loved the story underneath and especially the epilogue.
Lite erotica romance. Eh. I went back and read this because it was the book that came before Rock Me. This book was pretty mediocre and standard, whereas I truly enjoyed the fun and rebellious vibe of Rock Me. I'd say skip this one and go right to Rock Me if you like your boys bad and your settings to be of the tattoo parlor and rock concert variety, rather than being stuck in a stuffy office and Hawaiian hotel room. The books read like stand-alones, so you're not missing much by skipping this one.
This was a super cute book.
With the title being Unleashed, I was expecting some like grand book that was going to have action and adventure as well as smut.
But still a good book.This is the story of Kelsey and Evan who had been best friends for a decade.
They're significant others cheated on Kelsey and Evan with one another.
Kelsey and Evan have had secret feelings for one another forever.
They take a trip to Hawaii and of course the feelings bloom from there.I did end up getting annoyed with the plot climax because it's like why.
But it was still cute and I loved the way the book ended.
I would not linger in his life the way a clingy masochistic stalker would.Because that's what Kelsey is.She is a pathetic doormat who didn't have enough sense to propose to Evan when they were in college, and then didn't have enough courage to break it off with him totally, didn't have the guts to say  go to the everluvin hell and I hope you burn  to the man who was her husband and cheated on her with someone else.
Somebody did them a favor.Upping and leaving?What in the.......???????????Even if you feel something for a prickless cheating bastard of an ex-husband...it just shows how freaking helpless and spineless are you that you up and leave the supposed man of your dreams from the best vacation you have had in life for a someone like that?This novel was extremely offending.
I've had this book on my Kindle for such a long time, and I wish I had read it sooner because I loved it.
I really liked the fact that it was Kelsey and Evan who were friends before their partners came along (that they didn't meet through them).
Then when Evan finally tries to be happy with Kelsey and takes her to Hawaii, she has the f**king cheek to get pissed off and say "I just want her out of my life." Are you serious?
If you are like me and have this book just lying around waiting to be read, don't put it off any longer.
Note: This review, and all my reviews, comes from my blog - Romantic Rose's Bookshelf (http://romantic-rosesblog.blogspot.com)Meet Kelsey Peterson and Evan Ross – lawyers working for opposite sides of the courtroom, best friends of ten years, and co-partners in crimes of the sexual nature (really, the noise level is just criminal).
What better way to get that than lots of margaritas and a trip to Hawaii?
A pregnant, emotional hoot.“Sexy”ness rating: Lots n’ lots o’ hots!!!Overall Rating: A- Bottom Line: If you like lots of hot, contemporary-style sex and sweet lovin’ between now-more-than-friends, this is one for you!
