https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17113.The_African_Trilogy
This young man, Ikemefuna, is taken by Okonkwo into his compound until the tribe determines what is to become of him.
To deal with the trauma of child mortality the clan has developed a myth: It is believed that some women whose children repeatedly die are in fact bearing what is known as ogbanje.
The reader does come to think of the Igbo here as a primitive and bestial people.
It is, in the end, what amounts to a wholesale cultural annihilation of the Igbo by the whites.
In his frustration Okonkwo lashes out and kills a clerk.
An impressive testament to colonialism wreaking havoc in Nigeria [prtf]
The three stories are set in the author's home country of Nigeria, which I have never visited, although I have lived and worked extensively in other parts of Africa (and I had already read Forsyth's Biafra Story).
Unsurprisingly, each story ends in tragedy as the failure to communicate results in an outbreak of violence.
Violence that consumes the innocent, for no-one is really guilty - it is the system itself that it impossible.
A fascinating read for anyone interested in Africa, and with British colonial rule.
Happy birthday, Professor Achebe!
Things go as the story suggests, and people are thrown into confusion as the world shifts around them.No Longer At Ease takes us to Lagos, where Okonkwo's grandson, Obi, has secured a British university education and a position in the Nigerian civil service as the colony gears up for independence.
No Longer At Ease is an analysis of the obstacle course that integration and good citizenship in Nigeria.Arrow of God takes us back a little and examines the effects of the British administration on traditional ways of life.
Very informative on African Culture!
Things Fall Apart I've already reviewed this book, so won't again here, except to say that this is the strongest of the 3 books.No Longer at Ease: This story talked about the struggle of Obi Okonkwo (Okonkwo's grandson) to assimilate into the new western culture.
This is a much less relatable, much weaker book.Arrow of God: This starts off in the same style as Things Fall Apart, with the main character being Ezeulu, the chief priest of Ulu, chief god of the 6 subvillages of Umuaro.
A good book, but not quite as good as Things Fall Apart.
This trilogy is told from different perspective and in slight different time settings though all three dealt with the struggle of the African tribal cultures and the coming of white men.
The last book, Arrow of God, was told from the perspective of a Chief Priest in a separate village and yet even he fell in the end.
This may be the first time ever I read of a book so deeply entrenched in African tribal culture.
Some of the things sound ridiculous to me but I would’ve felt the same about Chinese superstitions too.
I did feel terribly affected when white men seem to have forced themselves upon the Africans.
Una interesante trilogía que muestra una historia poco estudiada sobre la colonización en África, en concreto en Nigeria, un acercamiento íntimo a las tradiciones y costumbres de los Igbos quienes son una de las etinias más grandes en este país.
Una perspectiva que muestra en cada una de las tres novelas una etapa diferente así como los impactos causados por la colonización británica, todo ello desde una perspectiva personal del autor.
A pesar de ser novela, muestra de una forma verídica el cómo vivieron los nativos del sur de Nigeria la evangelización y culturización occidental, el choque socio-cultural que representó para estas tribus la llegada de los Ingleses.
Wonderful stories that are a fascinating insight into the lives and culture of the Igbo people and the changing social, political, and religious landscape in Nigeria throughout a period of British colonial rule.
I realise the importance of Achebe's work, and despite the middling ratings I give below I feel that these stories, 'Things Fall Apart' and 'Arrow of God' in particular, will stay with me for a long time.* Things Fall Apart 4/5* No Longer at Ease 2/5* Arrow of God 3.5/5It goes without saying that the Everyman's Library presentation is as good as ever.
A wonderful way to experience these important works.
I feel like it would be easy to gush about this trilogy, but that seems trite.
While I am not too familiar with Igbo culture, I see similarities and themes that resonate with my connection to Yoruba-based traditions, and it helped me understand a little more some of the values that have been passed down generation to generation in Cuban and Puerto Rican traditions.
The complexity of the stories and how they complement each other and round out the overarching story of how Igboland was changed forever by white men's colonization of Nigeria (and Africa).
These are important stories, and I am so glad I got to read them.
1) Things Fall Apart - 4 stars2) No Longer at Ease - 4 stars3) Arrow of God - 4 starsA great collection of novels - the main theme of which addresses the collision of a traditional culture and that of European ideology and colonialism.
But what makes Achebe's writing remarkable is the subtle, gentle and non-judgemental way he approaches this topic.
He portrays the traditional and "modern" cultures in both a positive and negative light - highlighting the humanity, but also the injustices, that exist in both cultures.
Overall a very enjoyable, informative and fulfilling read, providing an unparalleled insight into the traditional rural culture of past Nigeria.
Achebe has a fascinating style, very lyrical and clear but also giving his prose a fantastic tempo and pace which reflects the atmosphere of the times he is recounting.
It is evidently different in the three books, with the narrative style unmistakable in all three but the with the second more modern book different to the other two.
I found all three to be very moving works for very different reasons, each one selecting a particular male theme for investigation.
Achebe is a powerful author and his books all certainly leave an impression.
I don't think a true book lover can do without him.
must read for all of us in the 'third world' witnessing developments/ ruptures across generations... and showed me a loving way to 'forgive'... and turn my angst into a more meditative, ability to intervene.
I found these books fascinating. Five stars for Things Fall Apart and Arrow of God. Character development was great, particularly in Things Fall Apart. I would recommend these books to everybody!!!
just reread these great books- so good!!! and especially interesting to read here at a sudanese university where everyone has an opinion about african literature...wish i hadn't left it quite so long to rediscover them though!!
Three absolutely amazing books with insights into Africa. An arrow of God is the most complex one but all of them are cleverly told and try to analyze the situation without judging anyone or rather judging everybody.
although all these novels deserve a 5-star, my favorite was THINGS FALL APART and my least favorite was ARROWS OF GOD. the reader gets into the minds of the africans and, setting aside culture differences, finds they are just like us.
Certainly made me consider the perspective of the Nigerians during the European colonization. After all, progress is good but we sacrifice tradition and eliminate other cultures.
Arrow of god was a bit stale for me. There are a lot of african proverbs.
All wonderful, but ARROW OF GOD is the stand-out masterpiece.
Great set of stories.
www.maryokekereviews.blogspot.com
So good.
The effect of colonialism on the third world
In the first book, prepare to be schooled on the ethics, the traditions and the mentality of the Igbo people, all the while witnessing the stuborness and hunger for power of the local elite, ending in a crestfall.
In the third book, the plot goes back in time, describing the lives of the people that tried to catch the tide of the time and benefit from the power vacuum caused by the new religious and political overlords.While the plot is built around the social workings of the Igbo people, the occasional westerner may prove a mere distraction, a footnote in the book, however big the role he may play in the advance of the story.
I kept bumping into to this book and the author, in book magazines and in conversation.
I was surprised by several things--how some people raved about the author and that many of my well read friends did not know about him.
How did that happen, I don't know.The three books in the African Trilogy tell of Africa's shift from tribe based living to colonization to modern times with Christianity as a major dynamic in the history.The books follow the same people and their ancestors through the excruciating changes of history.All the characters are full fledged.
I love bumping into excellence I had not know and needed to know.The African Trilogy
I’m going to buy all of his books for my library, this way, I can keep custody of culture to an extent.The ending of the last book of this triology broke my heart and I felt the pain of Ezeulu.
The pain of still losing after you have served tirelessly.
It gives you an idea on how things were in colonial era.
Another thing I noticed is the abolishment of some cultures that weren’t favorable.
This means that culture is an ever changing element.
I’m hopeful for positive changes and abolishment of unfavorable cultures in Nigeria’s and Africa’s future.
I read Things Fall Apart more than 5 years ago for O-level and I have yet to re-read it, but I still remember the book with a measure of fondness.
Achebe's portrait is written in elegantly simple language and with some degree of nuance.
One of the canonical, non-Western classics, and for the right reasons - not just because Achebe was African, but because he was pretty damn good at writing.I read No Longer At Ease in early 2015, but I remember almost nothing of it now.
Arrow of God, I might have a pop at when I have the chance.
Loved the first book: Things Fall Apart.
It’s easy to see why this is a classic of writing about Africa.
The second book - Arrow of God - was a harder read.
While still very rewarding, the story is a bit labyrinthine, and I got lost a few times.
The third book, No Longer at Ease, was a very easy and compelling read.
It tells a much more modern tale than the first two books.
I would put this trilogy in the same class as Satyajit Ray’s Apu Trilogy, Naguib Mahfouz’s Cairo Trilogy, and VS Naipaul’s A House for Mr Biswas.
