https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3576637-six-against-the-yard
Extremely interesting and thought provoking!
'Six against the Yard' takes six of the most well loved crime writers of the day and challenges each of them to write a 'perfect crime story.' This is then analysed by a real, retired detective who informs us whether or not the ideas are credible enough to be believed in real life.
I won't spoil it but clearly it is more difficult to execute (pardon the pun) a real life perfect crime than it is to write about one for fun.
I enjoyed the book however, and was interested to dip into other authors I have not yet read to see what they were all about.
These stories were then given to a retired Scotland Yard detective, Ex-Superintendant Cornish to assess, with the aim of seeing if he could in fact solve the crimes, thus proving that the (fictitious) murders were not perfect.The stories are very typical of their era - writing styles, language and plot lines that reflect the kind of crime writing that prevailed at that time.
Six master mystery writers, including Margery Allingham and Dorothy Sayers, took it upon themselves to write a short story each in which someone committed the perfect murder.
Cornish's feeling that the crime is perfect through unfair play is right: like he says, the crime is unpunishable, but not untraceable.Anthony Berkeley's story is fun: another great narrator, fun set of characters.
Berkeley didn't really explain why the two narrators would tell the story in the way they did.Thorndike's story was simply too theatrical and contrived.
So here we have six Golden Age crime writers (Margery Allingham and Dorothy L.
Sayers being the most prominent ones represented) constructing short story "perfect murders", each followed up by an analysis by a real life Scotland Yard Chief Inspector, who takes these great minds down a peg and explains how the Yard would have got to the bottom of the mystery.Here's the thing: are all the stories great?
No. However, at least three of them are very much worth reading - they're very good efforts, with some beautiful attempts to outwit the Yard.
However it is an entertaining book to read and I think all crime writers ought to read it to aid with the construction of their plots.As well as the 'perfect' murders there is a short article by Agatha Christie with was originally published in 1929 about a real life arsenic poisoning case which was never solved.
I found this an interesting book and would recommend it to all crime writing fans in spite of the fact that I have only given it four stars.
A couple of the authors were unduly complimentary about the British police forces, but the worst part was the assumptions made by the ex-CID chap who was charged with deciding whether these would actually have been perfect crimes.In at least one case he made all sorts of assumptions about what would have been done, when anyone with any experience in reading the news would know that he was wrong.
A lot of times it would have boiled down to experience (country constables as first responders), available staff (chronic manpower shortages in all police forces, all the time) and in one story he makes the bizarre assumption that fingerprints (now remember this was written in the 1930s) from an unknown victim would have been traced from countryside Britain to Scotland, thus identifying the man.
A retired superintendant of Scotland Yard then comments on whether the murder is, indeed, perfect, or whether the police would solve it.
I mainly picked this up because two of the stories were written by Allingham and Sayers - and those were the two I enjoyed the most.
Interesting to see how the police mind works.
There is also a bonus in the form of a reportage written by Christie on a true unsolved crime.
All in all a good book.
I will, however, be looking out for more examples of the Detection Club books.
So, the tagline for this book is ‘Who Better to Commit the Perfect Murders than the World’s Greatest Mystery Writers?’ but from the description on the back, I couldn’t tell if these stories were written by the ‘world’s greatest mystery writers’, or were about them.
; )The idea behind this book was for six great detective writers – Margery Allingham, Anthony Berkeley, Freeman Wills Crofts, Father Ronald Knox, Dorothy Sayers, and Russell Thorndike – to write mysteries which they considered to record the perfect murder.
These mysteries would then be turned over to Scotland Yard’s Superintendent Cornish who would try to prove why and how the murderer could be captured.
Six short, sharp and brilliantly twisty 'perfect murders' from 1930s greats. If I could travel to any part of time, and do anything, I think I'd like to be part of the original Detective Club. Just think of all the interesting murder conversations we could have had . . .
This is an intriguing anthology of murder-mystery short stories by six golden age authors (including Allingham, Berkeley and Sayers) who have been set the task of creating ‘the perfect’ (unsolvable) murder.
I enjoyed the short stories themselves, very much; but the analysis of each of the ‘crimes’ by a CID murder expert, despite sounding like an excellent idea, proved rather dull.
The addition of a brief essay by Agatha Christie, regarding the actual unsolved 1928-29 murders known as the Croydon case (three murders by arsenic poisoning that occurred within one extended family), seems to have been added just so that the venerable Dame’s name can be included amongst those listed on the front cover.
A mixed bag of short stories with one I really enjoyed (Blood Sacrifice), one I thought awful (Strange Death of Major Scallion - disgusting), and the others ranging from 2/5 to 4/5.
It took me a little while to get through the collection, with the stories I didn't enjoy so much slowing me down along with the ex-detective's narration proving a better idea in theory than in execution.
These sections sometimes highlighted a different, interesting viewpoint - a little like when you discuss a book with a friend or group - but part of me wonders if I should have, in retrospect, skipped them.
Bons crimes "im"perfeitos e parece que concordo com o Sr. (Ex) Superintendente , só um se poderá safar, porque os outros têm "o rabo preso" e por isso "fáceis" de associar.Mas só digo isto porque li os crimes pela perspectiva do "criminoso"!
This was a very interesting read - six celebrated mystery writers planning the perfect murders so as to be unsolvable and retired Scotland Yard Superintendent Cornish of the CID providing critiques. There are more volumes by The Detection Club and I plan on reading them if I can hunt them down.
Very interesting concept and insightful stories as well as analyses!
Interesting to read. Every time I thought 'now THIS is the perfect murder', the commentary by the policeman proved me wrong.
Six authors vs an ex-superintendent of the Scotland Yard.The idea of a perfect murder is one that has been around for a while.
Well, my friends, you will have to read the book to find out!I personally believe that there is no such thing as a perfect murder.
I really loved the fact that Cornish went into lots of detail when he decided whether or not the murder was perfect.
As the novel went on, I found myself looking at those details myself and trying to find the weak spot in the murder that was being performed.
A total of 6 short stories: Perfect Murders which after conclusion are dissected by a policeman of the Yard.
Leaps and bounds are taken with snippets of information used in the story, which would never be known to the police to prove it actually isn't a perfect murder.
For certain stories it goes to extremes in such a way it becomes irritating.
The policeman has read the story and knowns it's a murder and then shows it really isn't.
I just read this under it's alternate name Six Against Scotland Yard in a 1937 edition by the Sun Dial Press which I picked up for two sawbucks at the Mystery Bookshop in Gotham City. The hook with this book is that six hams each try to cook up a perfect murder only to be assessed by one Ex-Superintendent Cornish of the Yard's CID. They all have their charms but there is one pearl in this oyster - Anthony Berkeley's rap about an American grifter in the Jolly Old puttin' one over on a dame of similar comportment.
Six short murder stories (not actually mysteries, in most cases, as almost all are narrated by the murderer), each supposed to be "the perfect murder", by famous mystery authors of the first half of the 20th century, and then a retired Scotland Yard detective weighs in and tells you why they aren't perfect. The stories range between mildly entertaining and extremely well-done (not surprisingly, the Dorothy Sayers entry is the best, although I've read it elsewhere), but I find the police commentary rather irritating. A fun idea, but not a must-read volume by any means.
I discovered this book of short stories after enjoying several mysteries by Freeman Wills Crofts. He is one of several classic mystery writers whose stories of "perfect" murders fill this book. I was pleased to see Dorothy Sayers as one of the other authors. After each story a real life retired Scotland Yard Superintendent describes how the mystery might be solved. Most of the stores are good entertainment and each after word on ways they might be solved adds a lot to the collection.
A lil antiquated by now, but it was still lovely to read these short stories by masterful authors. The commentaries by Scotland Yard provided a useful perspective! but I didn't think they added much to my enjoyment of these short mysteries.
An interesting idea hampered by the solutions proposed and by the fact that the perfect crimes are more psychological in nature than they should be, still the stories are good in themselves and it is interesting to see how police work was actually done.
This book disappointed me immensely. The short stories by themselves are fine, though not spectacularly so. The "solutions" offered by the Scotland Yard expert are ineffably complacent and profoundly irritating.
While the concept (that each author's "perfect murder" was evaluated by a member of Scotland Yard) was intriguing, all of the stories were mediocre and the characters irritating. Despite this, I did enjoy Agatha Christie's essay at the end, almost making it worth finishing.
The shorts stories were great depictions of impeccable writing.
review to come
whilst the short stories themselves are fine the way the Detective proves them not a perfect crime often extends beyond creditable argument.
Six stories of the perfect murder as told by six members of the detective club. The stories are good, the solving is a bit of a stretch.
Sorely disappointed. Other than the Dorothy L. Sayers piece each story was a serious struggle to get through, and the conclusions unrewarding as well. Boo.
Some stories were better than others but still a good read, something different.
