https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86143.The_Good_Life
The genre is written there on the top: Nature.
This book is about "nature"?
Oh, and I should also add "Romance," because if you don't find the Nearings' life to be extremely romantic, well, then those thousands of pounds of poison that you've been ingesting for years, provided by the market economy at your local food store, pre-packaged and full of toxins and colorings and dyes, must have eaten holes into your heart and brain, and those pills that you've been popping to repair the damage done to your body must have corroded your soul.
Never were two people better suited to go back to the land.
They loved each other and dedicated their lives to not needing anybody else.
It makes me wonder if being handy enough to build a house would automatically breed annoyance with people who can't find the end of a 2x4.
The Nearings' heroic self-sufficiency is an inspiration to everybody who's fed up with the world and longs to strike off on their own.
But I think I'd hate to live next door to them.
(Perhaps on reading this Jim will memorialize his experience for posterity.) Scott and Helen Nearing invented the "back to the land" movement.
The lifestyle involved the following: 1) daily hard physical work; anyone who has dug ditches will understand the animal nature of building houses out of stone 2) absolute economy; these communists out-yankeed their Vermont neighbors back in the great depression; no pity for rural poverty.
I read The Good Life when I was working as a carpenter and builder.
Scott and Helen died at the age of 100 and 91, respectively, from hard work.
stone (Nearings), Everything I Want to Do Is Illegal by Joel Salatin and Living the Good Life by the Nearings are pretty similar.
They talk about the necessity of having a cash crop and an alternate income on top of that to support you, even if you live completely off the land.The second book, Continuing the Good Life is about their move to the coast of Maine where they switched to Blueberries as their cash crop, but lived a similar life - building houses out of field stones that they found, gardening year round by using glass houses, eating well and only working 4 hours a day.
I learned that to live in the way described in this book requires just about everything you have, and I realized that the life I've created thus far -- a life of trying to write and be an artist, a life of raising a young family -- is simply not compatible with the time and effort and sacrifice needed to build these self-sufficiency skills.
It give me hope, though, to think of people who are.And these people are pretty fascinating.
As far as the writing style goes, parts of this book were a total slog simply because the sentences were dry or repetitive.
I love them as one can only love people you know as characters in a book, but what seems to me skipping out on a basic function of human social interaction (cooking and eating for pleasure) stopped me cold and made me realize it was not to be for me.
But I still love this book and think Helen Nearing's description of the young people who came to the farm to help is pointed and accurate to a fault for a lot of the young people I meet today.
Having worked on their archival papers and (as an unrelated coincidence) having lived within a mile of their homestead in Vermont at one point, I really should have read this one all the way through a LONG time ago.
The year I lived in Winhall/Bondville/Stratton/Pike's Falls (no one knows what to call the darn area) snow fell before Halloween and didn't melt until May. I also don't know how they didn't go crazy over the long winter (March sugaring is a long way off from November) even with the occasional lecture travel.
more like 'the hard life'!as an actual homesteader, i was very much looking forward to reading this book and finding great bits of information and methods of improving our own farm.
[farming is actually more fun and easier than they make it out to be, and in reality is unnecessary to follow any of the processes outlined by the nearings.] it is a very rigid book written by very rigid people; while it is a precursor to organic farming and permaculture, this is not an example of a 'natural' farm, let alone 'the good life'.
:PThe Nearings had DISCIPLINE, and even though they claim that Vermonters in the 1930s and 1940s loved to laze around and eat doughnuts every day (???) and their work ethic estranged their neighbors, it's pretty clear that their rigid ideological purity probably was the culprit more than anything else.I enjoyed the highly technical passages regarding their stone house building, and their greenhouse experiment to have a garden through a New England winter gave me all kinds of ideas for when I plan to have a Vermont "homestead." My other favorite feature was all the quotes preceding each chapter culled from a variety of agricultural sources from the 16th to 19th centuries.
It was such an appropriate read for the financial scare we've been in (and comforting!.
How empowering that two people with no farming experience learned to care for themselves and their community through their studies and just trial and error.
I picked up a ton of tips in this book that can help even the deepest city dweller appreciate the world around them and communities they live in.
The book also helped me understand why some people choose to live outside the concrete jungle.
It was a very refreshing read.
It reminds me of an adult version of the Little House books, just an accurate portrayal of a human life.
In some ways it is more interesting than the Little House books because the Nearings explain why they chose to live how they did.
Good luck, guys...)This book also reminds me of all the passionate heroes willing to live their values.
Like Rand, the Nearings expressed a beautiful vision and people flocked to them, to study them, learn from them, some wanted to join them.
Like Rand, there are people today long after their death who have dedicated their lives to keeping the Nearing's vision and work alive.
But these people are just a little too self-righteous for my taste.
So proud that they don't eat meat.
Calls them "slaves." Worse, they are down-right proud of how the refuse to make a "profit." If they make something that people want, they keep track of their hours of labor, and refuse to charge more than enough to pay them a basic wage.
Much like the Pope, and all socialists, they have a sick, twisted view of economics, and are proud of it.
An interesting peek into the country life 100 years ago, and they were certainly nice people and nice neighbors.
My only grievances with this book are the, at times, lengthy descriptions of specific topics such as house building.
They wrote separate books on these topics for readers who plan to put their philosophy and way of life into practice.
But be forewarned, the Nearings were not distinctive in their beliefs but they were in the way they were able to put them into action, without doubt, but rather with an incredible drive and certainty that is uncommon to find among other human beings.
I recommend this book for those who find the status quo unappealing and are considering alternatives to the reality they find themselves in.
Much excellent exploration on the mindset of abandoning a city life in favor of communal self-sufficiency, and plenty of practical advice on challenges and techniques learned on the way. Some chapters are downright preachy, however, and with the hindsight of an additional 50 years of historical context, plain wrong (especially those concerning diet). But overall a valuable book and a remarkable chronicle of a remarkable adventure. Well worth reading for anyone considering adopting a "country life".
Definitely dated at times, and certain points on which they go into excessive technical detail are not worth the modern reader's time. The walls of quotes that bookend the chapters may have seemed nice when the book was published but here represent a frivolity and an annoyance to the reader. Overall, something I would recommend to anyone interested in self-sufficiency, but here the book's contours matter more than the firm details.
Classic while making points that are still timely. Personal rating slightly lower because many of the topics were not reference-relevant to folks homesteading in frost free and semi-urban environments.
The Nearings are not most people.The book is very clearly written, engaging, easy to read and -- unlike many books today -- does not skip out on details of what is required and HOW to actually create the life they did.
They are not concerned with selling a "happy ending" or proving themselves right.Part of the attraction of this book is how unusual the Nearings were and the time period their story spans: 1932 through the mid-1970s.
While out living on the new homestead in upstate New York, I read Helen and Scott Nearing’s accounts of their 40+ years of homesteading in Vermont and Maine.
The first tells of their 20 years in Vermont, while the second tells of 25 years (and, at that time, counting) living in Maine.
They discuss some of the details of their two “cash crops”: in Vermont it was maple syrup making, in Maine it was blueberries.
Helen and Scott Nearing lived on a VT farm for 20 years (1932-1952), and then moved to Maine to their "Forest Farm", which is now the "Good Life" Center.
This book, The Good Life: Helen and Scott Nearing's Sixty Years of Self-Sufficient Living, chronicles their path.
I doubt I'd be permitted to build such a structure myself without jumping through serious hoops (like becoming a contractor?) In other ways the information was just as out-dated, although fascinating to read.
Chapter 5 in 'The Good Life' titled Eating for Health reads in part like a PETA manifesto with it's aversion to meat and other animal products.
I don't deny that their extremely strict diet was probably a major contributing factor in their both living to nearly 100 without serious problems, and I know that to them I would be one of those people who has sold out to modern conveniences like food variety.
Published in 1970, The Good Life is an autobiographical, how-to book by Helen and Scott Nearing that tracks their move from life in New York City to a self-sustaining farm in rural Vermont in 1932.
The goal is to encourage questioning of the systems that we depend on and to offer concrete examples for alternative ways of living.Before farm life, Helen was a classical violinist and writer and Scott was a badass political activist, writer, and educator—or he was until he published a pamphlet calling out corporate interests as the cause of WWII, which got him charged with treason and blacklisted from the teaching.
Helen and Scott Nearing, pacifist, teetotaling, nonsmoking, caffeine-free, collectivist, and vegetarian, moved from New York City to Vermont's Green Mountains in 1932, already middle-aged, to homestead. These books cover their trials, accomplishments, and philosophies (read: politics) on that first plot and their second homestead in Maine. These books inspired more than a few of the 1970s back-to-the-landers, as I learned from  Back From the Land . However, I also learned from that book that Hel
Helen and Scott Nearing, pacifist, teetotaling, nonsmoking, caffeine-free, collectivist, and vegetarian, moved from New York City to Vermont's Green Mountains in 1932, already middle-aged, to homestead.
These books cover their trials, accomplishments, and philosophies (read: politics) on that first plot and their second homestead in Maine.
They hand-built a dozen stone buildings in Vermont and another nine in Maine largely by themselves, raised 85% of their food, wrote several books each, obtained all their heating fuel from their land, went on speaking tours, and entertained sometimes a dozen visitors a day in the height of their popularity in the seventies.
The Nearings have also given detailed descriptions of how they built their own stone house (yes, they did!), put up furnaces, planted seeds planning ahead for the following year, preserved the crop, produced maple sugar as a cash crop, and much more.Many of their underlying beliefs and assumptions still hold true today, and even if very few of us can emulate their kind of living today, there are many lessons to be learned from them.
The author and her husband were frustrated communists-- frustrated since they could not convince their neighbors to create a community based on shared labor.
I must say I personally fall into the same camp as their neighbors and favor individuality and freedom, but nevertheless I admire the author and her husband for doing their best to live out their lives with integrity in accordance with their own personal ideals.I'd recommend this book to anyone contemplating leaving city life to eke out an existence in the country.
The author and her husband were definitely hard-working, well into old age.
They also have some reasonable advice for how to live and appreciation of the simple pleasures in life.On the other hand, there was too often an arrogant overtone to their approach as contrasted to their neighbors.
I also couldn't help noticing how often they lauded themselves while only in passing they mentioned how they were lecturing overseas for months on end.
It is pretty clear that they had considerable volunteer help in their later years.
None of these points are meant to detract from the Nearing's core message of living simply.
I liked their hopes, dreams, and ideals for the future and that they were actually living them and sharing them with others.
It was awesome that they realized 60 years ago how we are damaging our planet and were doing everything they could to live a healthy life for themselves and the planet.
I am looking forward to reading one of my favorite author John Robbins' new book "The New Good Life." I am hoping that it is similar to the Nearings ideals, but a more up to date and realistic version of it.
If you haven't read John Robbins' The Food Revolution yet, DO IT!
The book takes place over 70 years ago to start so a lot iof things have changed, especially how much money you should prepare to have before making this type of move.Also barter was used much more in the 30's and 40's than it is nowadays where everything is cash in hand.
The books title might have you think that Scott and Helen Nearing created a working farm all by themselves which is not true,they had dozens of people volunteering their time through the years in exchange for food and lodging to make this endeavor successful.Perhaps a bit out of date but a good read..
Vermont has changed but it essentially the same as it was in the 1930s when this was written.
It's been funny reading this book again after being so fascinated by it as a teenager.
The Nearings' politics and extreme orderliness and intentionality don't excite me quite so much as they used to, but all the minute technical details they share are even more fascinating.
They were serious planners and documenters, and reading their account of various projects, of their economy, and of their 4-hour workdays (!) makes anything seem possible.
The most powerful thing about reading this now is how they've effectively channeled their socialist ideals into eliminating the void that exists between most of us and the various material and economic things we have and do.
I really got a lot out of this book, but i really don't agree with the strict schedule they set up for themsleves, but then again times and lifestyles have changed since then.
i would recommend this book to anyone moving from a town or city to the country, but i would not recommend living to such a strict schedule.
I think you can take what you want out of this book, like the practical stuff and the parts about time and working for yourself are very interesting.
Self-sufficient idealists move to a use-economy in Vermont and then Maine.
An interesting early version of this story, starting in 1932 and referencing intentional community (and Walden Two in passing, published after 15 years of their story) but ultimately the story of a couple willing to nonchalantly tackle and thoroughly document their version of happiness; towards the end, the tale of the stone garden wall they took 14 years to build.Combines two separately published books, one on 20 years in Vermont (when Scott was approaching age 50) and one on 20+ more years starting again in Maine after the ski tourism became too busy for them in their original homestead.
