https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87476.A_Thousand_Days
Schlesinger died in 2007 at the age of 89.Written by an insider with a unique window into events, “A Thousand Days” is widely considered an invaluable, if selective, review of the three-year Kennedy presidency.
And, in general, Schlesinger is able to provide interesting (and often unique) insight into nearly everything he witnessed first-hand.Unfortunately, despite Schlesinger’s skill as a historian and writer, this book will not provide a consistently engaging or carefree journey for many readers.
“A Thousand Days” is frequently dry and dense and is more geared toward a political philosopher or history graduate student than a fan of colorful presidential biographies.By design the reader is exposed to very little of Kennedy’s pre-presidency and even less of his family or personal life.
Kennedy didn't particularly want him on the ticket, but felt he had to make the offer to appease him.
OK, so there was this nebulous plan developed under the Eisenhower administration to train Cuban dissidents in the mountains of Nicaragua to overthrow the Castro regime.
Kennedy was adamant that the US could not contribute any forces; this would be an operation conducted by Cubans, in the name of the revolution (which the Americans and these dissidents believed Castro had betrayed).
There had also been serious miscommunication, with the Cubans expecting the American military to intervene and help them if things didn't go well--but Kennedy did not want it to turn into an American coup.
A great in-depth look into the politics and policies of the Kennedy administration by a respected historian who had a front row seat as a special advisor to the President.JFK didn't have a lot of time in office, but he accomplished a lot.
And Kennedy built our conventional forces back up, so that we could respond to crises in flexible ways.In foreign policy, he was largely successful in having the U.S. lead by example, rather than by fomenting coups and propping up dictators, although with his absence, the U.S. went back to its former ways.
At the time of Kennedy's death, civil rights legislation was waiting in the wings, ready for LBJ's arm-twisting skills to bring it to fruition.JFK was cool headed, intellectual, witty, and pragmatic.
Read in the fall of 1969, when I was a high-school sophomore in Mississippi.
The ruthlessness of RFK is seldom seen, and any of JFK's failings are either not mentioned at all (his impatience at meetings, and his womanizing (Schlesinger says in the Forward to this updated 2002 version that he never saw anything like that in the White House)), or they are quickly dismissed (his pattern of not utilizing Lyndon Johnson with the Congress).
Despite those flaws, the book is a must-read for any presidential history lover, or anyone who has an interest in the Kennedys or the 1960s.
Schlesinger was witnessing history as it happened, and his first-person narrative of meetings with Kennedy cannot be dismissed.
It all began, as it ended, in the cold. And we were left without our hero and on our own...like sheep without their shepard...Why did you leave us, why did you die?
From my few experiences reading books written by presidential aides, the one thing I've noticed is the tendency for the author to write about themselves instead of the subject readers are more interested in (case in point Sidney Blumenthal's "The Clinton Wars.") Schlesinger does not fall into this prose.
His subject is clear and thorough, beginning with the nominating process selecting Kennedy as the presidential candidate in Los Angeles, 1960.
Considering the president's death in 1963, the book was written very quickly, a feat that is all the more remarkable given the depth and detail Schlesinger assigns to some choice events.
Possibly the best book about Kennedy's White House years. Also see "Kennedy" by Ted Sorensen.
Schlessinger, Jr.'s book on the Kennedy Presidency is of interest to the historian of foreign policy and diplomacy if for no other reason than the fact that he was close enough to the internal workings of the American presidency that he could write a book of personal reminiscences which would qualify as a history.
Obviously written for the general educated public, the book has the additional advantage of historical writing has lost in the last several decades.The U.S.-Soviet Cold War dominates much of Schlessinger's account.
This "memoir" of the Kennedy Presidency, full of first hand accounts of diplomacy at the highest levels of government, also represents an attempt to draw "lessons" from American history.
I picked it up again, re-reading where I'd gotten to and continuing on, now in a time of a new president and a different Washington.
There were, of course, still bitter political disagreements, widely varying opinions, crises galore during the Kennedy years.
On these pages, President Kennedy comes across as a thoughtful intellectual, and the argument is made that appearing so helped him politically.
So much seems so very applicable to today.In brief, if you have an interest in the Kennedy years and haven't read this book you really need to.
'Kennedy' from Sorensen and 'A Thousand Days' by Schlesinger were both published in 1965 and both must remain today as the most intimate and erudite treatments of John F.
Both Schlesinger and Sorensen, who were both close and impassioned collaborators in JFK's presidency, could be burdened with the liability of not offering a truly objective treatise.
If Schlesinger's personal memoir of his times spent close to the Oval Office are viewed with the benefit of the passing decades, with their revelations and disclosures, (see 'An Unfinished Life' by Robert Dallek) there are many issues missing from this learned historians account.
Way too much in the day-to-day weeds for anyone unless you're doing in-depth reasearch on how decisions were made for almost everything that happened during the 1960 campaign and the consequent administration. Do you want to know which advisors went into which hotel room to talk to and persuade someone to talk to someone else to get them to make a phone call and speak with.... Like that.
NPR discussion about some of the first political tell all books. This one came into criticism immediately since it came out so soon after his death http://www.wbur.org/npr/640793624/wha...
3.5 really. Really bogs down in spots describing every single person he's ever met, but also really interesting first hand accounts. Lots of foreign policy, not as much domestic.
This book is one of the most thorough firsthand accounts of the Kennedy administration and takes an almost exhaustive look at many of the things that occurred during the administration.
I will point out that even as a Republican I found the book fair and while lacking in detail at some points it is still the most complete work that is published on Kennedy and to those who claim bias: the man worked in the Kennedy administration so take that bias into account as you read and enjoy a firsthand look at a complicated presidency and pivotal point in American history.
I enjoyed the insider's view of the Kennedy presidency presented in this book.
I did not seek this book out for a balanced view of Kennedy, and it came across to me as understandably biased (Mr. Schlesinger was a Kennedy advisor).
I did come away with a better understanding of the issues faced and covered by the Kennedy administration and feel like I learned more about what JFK was like as a leader.
Whether or not I agree with all of his political views, I found myself very sorry that we did not see what good things JFK would have brought in his final year of his first term and a very likely second term.
Appointed by President Kennedy himself to advise on policy and to observe and document for history, this Pulitzer Prize winning book is the result of JFK's faith in Schlesinger.
A thousand days documented in a thousand pages, Schlesinger was a fly-on-the-wall for the entirety of the Administration and he pours his unique insight into every page.
One feels that they grapple the issues as JFK does, and the author covers every single aspect of those thousand days.
This book, above all others, still grapples with all of the Administration in every detail, and covers the thought process and decision making of the President.
Robert Caro offers an important critique of Schlesinger's account in Passage To Power. Caro is both more detached and careful in his comments about RFK, Schlesinger, Sorensen, and the other Kennedy men than the fawning Schlesinger. They treated LBJ viciously, possibly for good reasons, and with the exception of RFK, the president reciprocated with deference, courtesy, and respect. Schlesinger later changed his opinion of LBJ, but little of his growing respect is displayed here.
But Schlesinger deals with that right away by acknowledging that in the beginning of his book.
Also, even though there is somewhat of a bias which makes Schlesinger not hit as hard as he could on some of Kennedy's white house days, this is still a great book that is a great addition to the historiography on President Kennedy.It is a very long book so it does get dry from time to time but Schlesinger, Jr. gives so much detail the reader really feels like they lived during that time period or were in the room with Kennedy.
This book will definitely take you a long time to read it but it is so worth it.
Exhaustive though intentionally limited view of the Kennedy administration. By adopting the first person point of view, Schlesigner was able to present a view of the administration that is both insightful and honest. The most interesting sections, of course, are those when the author quotes Kennedy directly and comments on his style and substance. It is unfortunate that more of those involved in public service today do not read this. It presents an image of America that embraces public discourse, that challenges itself to show what was best and brightest. The opportunity of those days are something sorely lacking today.
The first thing about this book, I read the unabridged version wish I knew there was an abridged one, is that it is written by a Kennedy confidant and insider so you’re going to hear nothing negative. In addition is painfully detailed some items which probably could be covered in a couple of pages. Right in the beginning of the book, the large amount of pages taken to describe how they decided on LBJ as Vice President could have been edited. It’s okay for what it is, a very pro account of the Kennedy Presidency.
The second in the family of Kennedy biographies. Written at the same time as Sorensen's biography, Schlesinger's account of JFK's life is also very highly polished and the first draft of history. Again, there is more of a focus on JFK's presidential years and not a lot on his background. (The information would not come to public knowledge many years later.) Over all, it's a bit of a journey to get through this biography. But it is written with a historical purpose by one of America's great historians.
It is not a usual reading, it takes time. Yet the piece is worth reading, indeed. Huge amount of data from various spheres, so much info, many interesting insights, different perspectives - elaborate, smart, well-written, ... I cannot but admire the author.And I must confess I got even more interested in the Kennedy era and the world in the 1960s as whole. Inspired, inspiring.Our problems are manmade – therefore, they can be solved by man.
As special assistant to the president, Arthur Schlesinger witnessed the politics and personalities that influenced the Kennedy administration. Schlesinger’s relationship with JFK, as a politician and as a friend, has resulted in this account in which the president “walks through the pages, from first to last, alert, alive, amused and amusing” (John Kenneth Galbraith). So detailed, it is boring. And I really like other Kennedy books. Not worth your time.
Schlesinger, although somewhat biased by his close personal relationship with Kennedy, is an excellent writer and historian, and this is a great insight into the reality of Camelot, focusing particularly on foreign policy but including the domestic agenda, and civil rights in particular. The hardcover edition is nearly 1100 pages, however, not 384, so be prepared to work on this one for a while - it is well worth the time.
This book gives a fascinating insight into the Kennedy White House from Kennedy's historian, who happened to be present at most all important events within the administration. One can surmise what Kennedy would have done in Vietnam from what he did in Laos. The author gives very clear reasoning to all of his arguments. One of the best Kennedy books (if not the best) I have ever read. One gets a very clear understanding of Kennedy's domestic and foreign policy. Excellent read!!!
This rather lengthy read has a lot to chew on, and it's mostly good, entertaining and revealing information. Some of the chapters went into a lot more detail than I cared to read in 2015 about international issues from 1960, but on the other hand it gives an excellent portrait of JFK and some of the leaders in his administration. The chapter on Civil Rights was as good as any summation of the issues and the mood of the country at the time, from the 1950s through the early 1960s.
This is the inside dope on the Kennedy Presidency, told by one of the players, and submitted for publication within a year of JFK's death. Unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, it's packed with detail. It's also spin and it's written in a very formal style. I bailed out half way through.
Kennedy's Camelot presidency, soup to nuts. Sections on foreign policy unrelated to the USSR/Cuba/Vietnam were not as engaging, but remarkably vivid in its overall portrayal of America in the early 1960s. Schlesinger's tome can sometimes take on the feel of a "love-fest," but he makes JFK come to life.
A very revealing view of the Kennedy presidency....not a biography, but the detailed inner workings of the administration as seen through the eyes of one of Kennedy's key advisors who served throughout the entire timeframe.
