https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128754.Deadly_Decisions
Deadly Decisions is the third book in this series and while it's too hit and miss overall, this one is a nice read.Temperance is called away from Quantico when a young girl named Emily Anne becomes an innocent victim in the escalating turf war between biker gangs in Canada.
Reichs weaves these details naturally into the crime story, unlike Patricia Cornwell, who eventually let all Scarpetta’s hang-ups and neuroses, and those of Lucy, ruin that series.Deadly Decisions is a good read, and there is excellent atmosphere in this one.
Author Kathy Reichs imbues Temperance Brennan with professionalism and humanity, all the while remaining focused on the crimes and the victims.
This book made me wonder why some female mystery authors choose to endow their female protagonists with so much unecessary angst.
The protagonist can't just solve crime.
She has to juggle relationship issues, neurotic family and friends, pets, concerns about her appearance (hair and weight), money worries, etc and catch a murderer.
Yeah, I know that those are all "real" concerns, but if I wanted to read a book about women's issues, I'd pick something from Oprah's list.
Why can't female detectives just solve murders?
Male detectives aren't worrying about their weight!
The plotting in these books would be pretty good if the author didn't continually have her heroine behave in such an idiotic way in order to create suspense or reveal important plot threads.
Tempe must "happen" to know someone in every law enforcement agency or field on the continent.However, I enjoyed the technical details about crime solving that were imparted in such a way that they fit into the story.
Maybe that's why it took me 13 days to read 300 pages.
(Usually I read 90-100 pages per day.)Also: If you're looking for books about the "Bones" TV show, you will be disappointed.
This one (again) features one of Brennan's friends/family in peril, and (again) teaches us much more about forensics than your average episode of CSI.This time the featured forensic topic was blood spatter.
I skimmed until I found the conclusion: "so this means that the victim was beaten before he was shot?" I don't think my enjoyment of the book suffered for my laziness.The villains in Deadly Decisions are OMCs, Outlaw Motorcycle Clubs.
Brennan volunteers for a multi-agency task force to address the problem, and as a result, she (and her readers) are treated to not one, but two lecture presentations about the history of OMCs in the U.S. and Canada.

Like with the second book I listened to this one on audio, one slight annoyance is that the narrator was different and so the voices for all the characters changed making it a little difficult to re-adjust and familiarise myself with who was speaking.
One major repetitive similarity I have found so far throughout the series is that there has always been some member of Brennan's family that is threatened on in dangers, with the first book it was her daughter, the second her sister and now it's her nephew.
However I will say that during this book I did enjoy getting to know her nephew Kit, and found him to be an interesting character and his involvement did make sense.
WHAT THE HELL!!!UGH, Deadly Decisions made me want to murder him!
Is there going to be a book where everyone is safe?Other than that, I'm lowkey happy that Brennan was in the good ole VA.
There's also another thing going on in her life and that has to deal with Ryan.
Ugh, bad guy!
He deserves a time out for the shit he has put me through.I liked getting to meet Kit, her nephew..
but I also feel like he caused a bunch of drama into her life as well.
I also feel like Tempy gets herself into a whole bunch of shit.
It was somewhat predictable, somewhat heavy with technical aspects, somewhat reliant on unbelievable co-incidences.The novel focuses on Brennan's involvement in a case following the discovery of bones/corpses thought to be related to biker gang activity in Montreal.
The dénouement was reliant on some somewhat unbelievable heroicness on the part of the central character and a few supporting cast who'd been barely mentioned till they turn up to save the day at the last minute.Oh, and I just couldn't understand the way a 19yr old male character felt like someone several years younger.
I think I liked this one in the series the best so far. Dr. Temperance Brennan keeps her instances of running off by herself and doing something knuckle-headed down to a minimum.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Our intrepid forensics lady is knee deep in skeletons and a biker insurrection in Canada. Ms Reichs does a good job of weaving science with action, and the usual humor.
The writing is good, the science is fascinating, and the story rolls nicely - though the level of detail tends to slow it down a bit.
Still like the forensics, the writing, the story, the characters - but could've done without a rehash of the first plot: first the best friend is in peril, now the sister.
Felt bad, but couldn't finish.Still, good for page-turners, great for series lovers - if you're a fan of the genre and don't mind formula.
Fast-pace read. Delightful.
3.5/5The amount of times Tempy wonders if something or other was a deadly decision was super annoying.
I love when the title appears in a book, but the amount of times it was said in this was repetitive and was quickly redundant.
The addition of Tempy's nephew, Kit, gave the book some more drama.
Exploded people are really gross to read about, just a warning.
One thing that constantly surprises me is all of the new people introduced in each book.
It seems like there's at least 5 new characters that Tempy calls every book for information/help in her case.
Temperance Brennan returns to Montreal, Canada, to face the bones of an innocent and two bikers.
There is a gang war brewing and she is soon called to a biker clubhouse where more bones are found, including the head and two leg bones of an unknown child.
The findings drive her to get to the bottom of the mystery of why the two children were killed, who the second one is and along the way, to keep her teenage nephew Kit (whose father took him fishing and then left him on Brennan's doorstep) out of harms way.On top of all that, her friend and would be love interest Lieutenant-Detective Andrew Ryan is under investigation for corruption.
There's a lot happening in this book, a lot to understand about gangs, terminology, etc.
The characters have become old friends, though I sometimes get squeamish when things get grizzly in the crime department (though the forensics doesn't bother me.)The whole motorcycle thing is totally unfamiliar to me.
I like fiction that teaches me something.Will release today when I go for my dentist appointment.From the PublisherNine-year-old Emily Anne Toussaint is shot dead on a Montreal street.
For Dr. Temperance Brennan, a forensic anthropologist in both Montreal and North Carolina, the deaths kindle deep emotions that propel her on a harrowing journey into the world of outlaw motorcycle gangs.As a scientist, Tempe should remain dispassionate.
Cliff Hanger: Idk!Triggers: n/aRating: 2.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover: 7Plot: 4Characters: 3World Building: 4Flow: 4Series Congruity: 6Writing: 5Ending: 5Total: 4In DeptBest Part: It was shortWorst Part: blood spatter lecture Thoughts Had: I'm bored to death.ConclusionContinuing the Series: NoRecommending: NoShort Review: *sigh* I gave her one more try, and i am now finished.
This book, being small, was still boring.
Like really, blood splatter took up a whole chapter!
Then you have this dumb little triangle for like a minute.
Too boring, Temp is a bitch, and i can't connect to these books.
Misc.Book Boyfriend: RyanBest Friend Material: No.
Very good, but I have to take a star away for our heroine’s obtuseness.
On page 30 a revelation is made about her police boyfriend that’s very distressing.
The obvious explanation is X.” On page 78 the boyfriend’s partner shows up just as confused and distressed.
Not even considering something so obvious—how do they keep their jobs?” It’s not ’til 299 that the solution even occurs to Brennan, and 301 that she realizes she’s been smacked in the face with the answer.
So: four stars for the book, but -1 for stupidity.
No está mal pero comparado con otros de la serie es medio flojo. ¿Tempe es una famosa forense y sin embargo (view spoiler)[ comete todo tipo de irregularidades y torpezas en la investigación, se mete sola en lugares peligrosos a pesar de estar amenazada y no se da cuenta de que pasa algo raro con su sobrino? (hide spoiler)]. No me lo creo del todo.El caso, más allá de las inconsistencias, es original y bastante interesante.
Her body is on an autopsy table at the Laboratoire de Sciences Judiciaires et de Meicine Legale in Montreal, where Dr. Temperance Brennan works as a forensic anthropologist.
But even she cannot be emotionally distant when little girls have become autopsy clients.Brennan, as usual, has a great many things going on in her life.
Soon there is police evidence Kit is hanging out with the very same people who are being investigated for various disappearances and murders surrounding the motorcycle gangs.
I just finished reading the first three Temperance Brennan novels.
As a Canadian it is fun for me to read a novel that includes Montreal.
I have only ever made it as far as Quebec, however the "canadianisms" that the author includes I find to be fun little quirks for us Canucks to recognize and enjoy.
The author schools us on Criminal Biker Clubs and the novel highlights "The Bandidos".
The detailed writing allowed me to envision exactly how the shocking farmhouse massacre came to be and some of the possible politics behind a raid between warring Bike Club Factions.
I don't usually like these books when they are set in Canada but this one was okay though I think it was because I just ignored all the French.
I much prefer Dr. Temperance Brennan's character and personality on the TV show Bones as opposed to the books.
She comes across as a brainless twit most times and whiny and/or insecure as well.
Our TV heroine is never insecure or whiny for that matter.
I never realized how dangerous they were until reading this book.
Having Brennan's relatives being in the crossfire in every book is getting tedious.
Temperance Brennan on tv is a great, funny, albeit antisocial woman.
But the antisocial part makes her even more fun to watch.
Temperance Brennan in the book is the most unprofessional anthropologist I have ever seen.
In every book I read about her it says that she's very good in keeping her personal and professional life apart, but she keeps doing just the opposite in every book I read.
I think she is meant to come across as a good example of a woman, but Kathy Reichs fails so hard.Kit really needs a good lesson, he's a stupid, overindulged boy who thinks he can do whatever he wants.
I wonder why I keep reading these books.
I know fiction is...
fiction and not real life but the completely unrealistic scenarios in which every story has someone she cares about tied in with the bad guys in so schmucky a way gets to be, as my mother would say, "a bit much." I do a lot of griping about these books but they aren't all bad and I'll continue reading them as they are still more entertaining than not.
If anything it's kind of fun to read about a life with employment like hers.
I have been following this series of books for many years now and have always enjoyed every reading experience.
Recently I have revisited them again as my daughter wanted me to buddy read them with her after discovering the television series and then seeing the books in our bookshelves.
I am glad I read the books before seeing some of the television show because otherwise I may not have liked them quite so much.
I don’t know just something about this book, I just felt disconnected.
All the bodies and murders just felt a bit brushed over.
It felt like going from one body to next without really knowing the finer details.
I enjoyed her previous two books a lot more.One thing I really like about Kathy Reich’s books is that she not afraid to go into detail when it comes to the technology and technique involved.
She explains and doesn’t dull it down.
In essence, she treats her readers as intelligent human beings.
It comes across as respectful.
But I felt that was just an issue for myself.
I'm still annoyed that the television series is far removed from the novels. Dr. Temperance Brennan is a smart,strong, and independent woman but she occasionally lets her emotions get in the way. When her nephew comes to visit during the middle of an investigation involving motorcycle gang war she finds herself being pushed and pulled in many directions. Where will the bones lead her and will she escape unharmed.
I've only read 60 pages but I'm just not getting into it, or it's just not the right time for me to read this book, maybe I'll try again in future.....
while read years ago I recall this 3rd in the series being not as good as the first two which were excellent
Audiobook3.5 stars
