https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/635641.The_Snows_of_Kilimanjaro_The_Short_Happy_Life_of_Francis_Macomber
Both "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" were inspired by this trip.
"The Snows of Kilimanjaro": 2.5*This short story is about a dying man.
Harry and his wife Helen are on a hunting/safari trip near Mount Kilimanjaro.
On the one hand, it contains a lot of autobiographical elements of Hemingway's life (Harry is a writer too, wartime experience in Europe, living in Paris, multiple marriages, heavy drinking problem etc.).
Very depressing short story."The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber": 4*Another couple, Francis and Margot are on a hunting trip in Eastern Africa.
I enjoyed The Short Happy Life... better than The Snows Of Kilimanjaro. They were interestingly similar and opposing. Hemingway does an excellent job of describing the natural world but I thought human emotions were captured a bit better in Happy Life. It was so complex and had a genius ending. It was a 5 star story. Kilimanjaro was still well written but didn't capture my imagination as much. I disliked the protagonist. But still 4 stars.
Two of Ernest Hemingway's short stories with the setting of Africa.
The Short, Happy Life of Francis Macomber involves the hunting of wild animals in the narrative.
Besides the animal victims, there are the three human characters: the hunter and guide Wilson and his customers the lamentable couple Francis and Margot Macomber.
In The Snows of Kilimanjaro, there's no hunting for sport as in Macomber.
The honorary distinction Memsahib refers to her married state, her being light-skinned, and her privileged social origins.
Memsahib is a devoted wife and a financially independent woman by contrast to faithless Margot in the Macomber tale.
The Snows of Kilimanjaro is a depressing and sickening story about a bitter man who takes out his bitterness on his wife before he dies a miserable death. Next.
he does paint a picture...
It reads like a well written high-school piece
As a reader we are never privileged to know the thoughts of Mrs. Macomber.
We know what she says and we know the thoughts of Wilson, who in the end leads the reader to believe that she shot her husband on purpose.
This comment seems to be Wilsons way of letting Margot know that he has something on her now – a sort of black mail to keep her from telling anyone about his “illegal” hunting practices.
What’s in her heart God knows.” This thought sets us up to believe that she is up to something, it is not until the end that Wilson’s conclusion becomes ours as well.
'The Snows of Kilimanjaro' is probably the best from Hemingway’s short stories.
Just like ‘The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber’ this story also deals with the death of a man on safariThe Snows of Kilimanjaro is set in the snow-covered Mount Kilimanjaro, in Africa.
The story is a combination of fact and fiction since the main character is based on Hemingway, himself.
During the story Harry goes in and out of consciousness.
During his conscious moments, he argues with his wife and it is during unconscious or dream-like states, he remembers his past life and has insights into it.
Hemingway strikes again with these two short stories in which he portrays the feelings of regret and contempt of a writer dying of gangrene.
The recollections of lost chances and opportunities is concise, keeping in line with Hemingway's style of writing, but capable of touching you as if they were our own failures.The second story is about Francis Macomber, a wealthy coward on Safari with his wife, and not-so-trusty guide.
All in all, they were short and very well-written (it is Hemingway, after all).
A husband and wife are traveling in Africa when he is injured.
The husband is near death and reviewing his life.
The most moving part of the story was Hemingway's language and use of imagery in the description of death moving in and out as the husband nears the end of his life.
It was exceptionally well done."The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" tells the story of a couple on a safari.
The husband is a novice hunter and is going out with a safari team to hunt a lion.
The husband loses his courage and his pride during the lion hunt.
It's been mostly short stories, and I think because of this, I've grown much more fond of short stories.
It's a lot more compact, and you can really get the punch of a story better if you've read it in one sitting.
With a novel, it always takes me long enough that I forget things by the time a given story thread is closed up.
These were both really well-done (who knew Hemingway could write a short story?), and dealt with facing death in different ways.
The execution of both of these stories was great, and makes me want to re-read some of his other stories.
He came to the world of literature with Nick Adams, lived as Nick lived, and died as Nick would die!
Wishing for peace he lived in war and came to the coast with the fish skeleton left in his hand, as Santiago did (Old Man and the Sea(یکی از داستان های خوش ساخت همینگوی است که در فارسی یک بار توسط شجاع الدین شفا (1336)، یک بار توسط جواد شمس (1352) و سومین بار توسط نجف دریابندری به فارسی برگردانده شده است.
کاش تمام داستان های کوتاه همینگوی را ابراهیم گلستان، و تمام رمان هایش را نجف دریابندری به فارسی برگردانده بودند.
Woah, misogynisitic much, Mr. Hemingway? I won't even say "he never met the right woman" because I think with that frame of mind, he wouldn't have known her if she'd stopped a bullet for him. On the other hand, it seems as though he's unsatisfied with "manly" stuff too (mostly killing different things). Now that I think about it, he seems dissatisfied with gender roles in general and stifled by the expectations attached to gender.
I would give the short story "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" 3 stars--I found the main character's journey to death an interesting one--even though he was an ass.I hated the "Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber". Maybe it is because I am vegan and don't appreciate reading about animals being killed for sport. I was hoping there was some hidden element to this character but there wasn't.
A great Hemingway classic. Poured his heart out, he did. Loved the way he portrayed the the frustrating blabbering of a dying man, and, a writer's fear of not being able to write about all those things that he'd always mused.
Another prep school read. "Macomber" was actually read to us by our teacher Al Wise. I'm not sure why. But I did read "Snows" somewhere along the line. Haven't read much Hemingway. Date read is a guess.
I wish half-stars were possible. It'd give it 4.5/5. I love Hemingway's narrative voice. It's so raw and drawing. If that makes sense. There was only one part that dragged a bit for me: hence the less-than-five. Read it. It's good. :)
I reread this short story...it is very memorable. Once you read it, you will remember it, besides I love with a setting in AFRICA!
I keep trying to read Hemingway and I just can't love it. Everything is beautifully written, but so-o-o-o depressing. There are no appreciable highs and lows, just a steady drone of hopelessness.
My first exposure to the short stories of Hemingway. Very impressed.
Интересные рассказы. Заставляющие задуматься о некоторых аспектах своей жизни.
Sometimes it's difficult to get over sexism and gender stereotypes even in such brilliant works as these.
Well, maybe 1.5 stars. Other reviews don't have much to say about these stories about failure. No wonder I haven't read Hemingway since high school.
