https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1011947.The_Poet_and_the_Lunatics
The stories I liked most were "The Yellow Bird," "The Crime of Gabriel Gale" (which Joseph Pearce considers a treatment of the problem of pain as good as C.S.Lewis's book of the same title) and "The Purple Jewel," a small mystery whose solution was obvious to me, with no lunatics, at least in the usual meaning of the word.ESPAÑOL: Una colección de ocho historias cortas con un solo personaje principal (Gabriel Gale, el poeta del título) que tiene una habilidad especial para manejar a los locos.
Chesterton takes his paradoxical, sometimes upside down view of the world about as far as it can go - wonderful results and insights.
The Poet and the Lunatics is a collection of G.K. Chesterton short stories centered around poet and some-time painter, Gabrielle Gale, who either solves crimes committed by lunatics or prevents them before they happen.
In the opening story, Gale, himself is so eccentric, you aren’t altogether sure whether he is the keeper or the kept.
As each story unfolds, however, his deeper wisdom comes to the fore.
Gale serves as the voice for the author and one wonders at some of his outlandish/extreme crime prevention/ solving techniques.
For the wisdom presented alone—never mind the sheer story-telling genius, The Poet and the Lunatics is most highly recommended.
Quintessential Chesterton. Paradox, mystery, the aura of place. Who is the lunatic? Who is sane?
My favorite book. Helped me appreciate the beauty of small things.
Chesterton traz algo de Tolkien na descrição dos contos. Faz uma descrição agradabilíssima do ambiente, das personagens, do enredo. Ler os contos é como tomar um banho quente e relaxante após um dia de trabalho... ou quem sabe tomar uma gelada em um dia muito quente... Quero dizer que é um prazer relaxante.Recomendo ler como um "entre-livros", pois a leitura flui rápido e exercita o ritmo de leitura.
Nobody can touch Chesterton for evoking weather and skies and atmosphere. Sometimes these are fairly incidental to his work, but in this they often take centre stage. I love Chesterton for this and many other facets of his writing - so why only 4 stars? Because the notion of lunatics is even more jarring nowadays than his casual anti-semitism. And I just couldn't stifle my unease at the central premise. Shame.
The most famous of Chesterton’s characters that solves mysteries in this fashion is of course Father Brown, and Gabriel Gale is an enigma solver in the same vein—though specializing in mad men, specifically.
There usually aren’t clues that you can put together to solve the mystery before Gale, but if you’ve read enough Chesterton you may be genre-savvy enough to get a step ahead: with Chesterton, you know that if one of two characters is mad the madman isn’t going to be the one that most classically fits that role.
Pues sin ir más lejos para resolver un crimen o anticiparse a un delito; todo ello como consecuencia de unos planteamientos y deducciones aparentemente carentes de toda lógica pero que sin embargo resultan clarividentes (en contraposición con la supuesta cordura de los demás personajes del cartel, todos hombres de ciencia o de leyes).Precisamente en este sentido Chesterton nos lleva a mirar a nuestro alrededor y a reconocer que en realidad la verdadera locura está en creerse sensato.
En principio encontré el libro aburrido, y creo que se debe a que el primer relato es casi ininteligible hasta que has leído el último.Mis favoritos han sido los siguientes:- "El pájaro amarillo", que trata el problema de la libertad de manera original.- "El dedo de piedra", que aborda de un modo singular la cuestión de la vanidad y la honradez que pueden acompañar a la ciencia, sin que sea una excepción al conocimiento humano en general.- "La casa del pavo real".
Puro Chesterton: una situación que te hace flotar de tan extraña y cautivadora como es, y en que siempre se ahonda en la comprensión de lo humano.- "La joya púrpura".
Chesterton's central conceit, in this loosely connected series of short stories, is that although the world at large thinks Gabriel Gale, poet and painter, to be a species of lunatic, in fact he is a keeper, or guardian, of lunatics, since he knows the manner in which their minds work. Hmm. Afraid I was not totally convinced on that score.
I really and enjoyed this book. I recommend anything by G K Chesterton. Just who is the Poet? and who are the Lunatics? Read it and find out. I have read this book multiple times and enjoy it each time
recommended by Sarah Field
I stalled out on this book after the first story...
4.5 stars
I think I'll keep a shop in Croydon and marry someone who is into church work. I need to have limits to live a life.
