https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213142.Truth_and_Method
You don’t already know what the ‘hermeneutic circle’ is and why it’s important to get into it in the right way.You haven’t read Being and Time, which is a better work anyway.You know enough to know that reading Paul Ricoeur is much more enjoyable and just as enlightening.You’re not really interested in, to borrow that Ricoeur phrase, understanding Yourself as Another.
You think Wirkungsgeschichtlichesbewusstsein is not a word.You know absolutely nothing about nineteenth century German Geisteswissenschaften, nor about the various projects to legitimate them in the manner Kant did for the Naturwissenschaften.
But this is important, so you really should read Being and Time.No but seriously, don’t go swinging casually at this thing.
I find the idea of rating Truth and Method on a star system kind of offensive after Gadamer did so much to overturn the ontological prejudice that being is what can be quantified.
Reading this book was one of the joys of my life (I finished it July 4 three years ago, happy to ignore the jingoistic explosions all around me), and I honestly didn't find it all that difficult.
I wouldn't lie about that: who would deny that continental philosophy is often EXTREMELY difficult?
At times in my reading life I've been bludgeoned by Husserl, Heidegger, even Merleau-Ponty, but not Gadamer.
Instead he suggests we recover the fact that real human knowing and existing occurs in time, in communities, in bodies.
This means rejecting first a recasting of the humanities according to the controlled empirical methods of the natural sciences -- arguing instead that we recover the art of interpretation for understanding -- and then a conception of interpretation which would make the object of understanding original authorial intent -- this being an abstraction, not a lived engagement with the text.Powerful stuff.
It’s not that art determines how we interpret text, but art allows Gadamer to illustrate (no pun intended) the tension given that great works of art are considered “timeless,” yet they were produced in historical, finite circumstances.
This tension points to the horizon, a key Gadamerian term.Every experience has implicit horizons of before and after and finally fuses with the continuum of experiences present in the before and after to form a unified flow of experience (246).
Horizon: every finite present has its limitations.
When we understand something, we fuse the horizons between text and interpreter.
One of the greatest philosophical writings of the twentieth century, and one of the few that actually matters. As the status of science rose in modernity Gadamer sets out to justify the relevance of the humanities and show the possibility and importance of non-scientific truth. A long and technical book. Not to be read without a decent background in Continental philosophy and some serious patience.
While, under the influence of Nietzsche, Freud, and Heidegger and after the late 1960s especially, many in the fields of linguistics and hermeneutics, as well as the humanities more generally, were willing to abandon the search for truth qua truth in favor of an amalgamated individualistic materialism, Gadamer instead offers a, so to speak, third way.Undoubtedly the most important idea in his work is Gadamer's notion of the "fusion of horizons," in which the perspectives of author and reader are fused through the production and interpretation of texts.
It is, instead, a new experience which fuses the experiences of author and reader to produce something that contains some of both but is neither.This is essential reading for anyone interested in the question raised by hermeneutics, by ontology, and by linguistics in the last two centuries.
A person who has an horizon knows the relative significance of everything within this horizon, as near or far, great or small." To interpret the words of the past, Gadamer says that: "Just as in a conversation, when we have discovered the standpoint and horizon of the other person, his ideas become intelligible, without our necessarily having to agree with him, the person who thinks historically comes to understand the meaning of what has been handed down, without necessarily agreeing with it, or seeing himself in it." In interpreting texts, two horizons are involved--one is the horizon of the interpreter and the other the particular historical horizon into which he or she places him or herself in trying to understand the text.
Each encounter with a different historical situation, a new text, a discussion, disrupts that front line, sometimes minutely and sometimes with major shifts.
Equally important, why would this person moving through the world ask a question of the past, of the text, if he had achieved complete equalibrium from his previous encounter with the world?
We cannot encounter the world with anything more than this tentative adjustment of necessarily contrary impulses, and what has made Gadamer controversial is the view that all truth consists in this tentative containment.
Gadamer's erudition in the field of history of hermeneutics is impressive, but a less informed reader such as I am can often find himself in a difficult situation of having to interpret polemics with a thesis he doesn't know.
How can we understand historical tradition?
Exposing inner contradictions of subjectivistic or relativistic historism he concludes that the hermeneutic circle, the fact that tradition already preshapes our understanding of tradition is no hindrance to understanding, but basic principle that makes any understanding possible.I was overwhelmed especially by the revelatory power of the final part, which shows the universal aspect of hermeneutics.
"Being that could be understood is language." Therefore all our understanding of being is actually interpretation.
But, as I was reading it I had no idea why he would have long quotes from Dilthy and Count Yorck in the book, and I didn't realize what Husserl's Phenomenology really was, or what Aesthetics and Judgment really meant, or what was meant by Hermeneutics.
He'll do the same with Hegel and Kant.I'd say that the author definitely didn't like the Enlightenment (for the usual reasons), he liked the Romantics, but really loved the post-Romantics (Schopenhauer, Dilthy and Count Yorck).
To get to the meaning of these kind of statements the author steps the reader through Aesthetics, Kant, Hegel, and Husserl's take on the world.
Here is another book that may have killed me but I have endured and won the battle.
This is a very fascinating book that is a translation of German philosophy regarding how we determine truth in the humanities.
Some really beautiful moments, and lots of ideas that resonated with me.
However, like Derrida, the text is often too dense and he seems to purposely be difficult.
For that he does not get five stars!
What else can a reader do???
Punish philosophers by withholding stars.
Dear philosophers, you may know how to think well.
Next task: how to write well.
How many thousand-page books are worth it?
Gadamer begins his account of understanding, that is, coming to know something true about the world, by recovering art as a means of gaining knowledge.
Having dealt first with art, Gadamer then turns to Heidegger, Schleiermacher, and some 19th century German historians (particularly Dilthey) in order to offer an account of 'historically effected consciousness.' Essentially, Gadamer draws on Heidegger in order to demonstrate that we are always historical located in our understanding and, consequently, we possess a 'horizon.' This horizon is the unity of our experience of the world.
What is crucial in Gadamer's account is that we are always bringing our own horizon to the table, that is, our act of understanding can only take place within the bounds of time, space, language, and communal structures of meaning.
It is a book of ideas (or rather the history of certain ideas) and where the author believes he has a new one to introduce.
If so, can we discern such a force and codify its behavior?' Thus, the book's title: 'Truth' (human truth) vs 'Method' (scientific method).The chapters embedded among the four large sections deal in turn with topics like: art, play, humor, sympathy, experience, science, and language; with numerous subsections.
Hermeneutics, properly done, is cool. Also, this book is about the most systematic and all-encompassing as you'll find on the topic, and, as Gadamer shows, it applies to every area of learning, as well as character formation and ethics.
Incredibly challenging to read, but the chapter on hermeneutics changed my life.
Kita memahami teks dengan kesadaran bahwa diri kita ini seorang pembaca yang terikat dengan zaman saat ini dan pemahaman kita akan terpengaruh oleh zaman kita tapi di sisi lain kita sadar juga bahwa teks yang kita baca memiliki konteks zamannya sendiri.Kedua, ada kemiripan antara interpretasi teks dengan proses apresiasi suatu karya seni dalam estetika.
Dalam hermeneutika romantik Schleiermacher, jurang pemisah ini bisa kita hubungkan dengan memenuhi dua hal; pertama melakukan usaha pemahaman gramatikal, yaitu berusaha memahami setiap kosa kata yang ada dalam teks berdasarkan pada jaman teks tersebut ditulis.
However, T&M requires lots of background reading (Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Heidegger, and the German idealists), so much so that the reading is really slow-going.
Plus, Gadamer's prose, as rendered in translation is slippery -- not in an esoteric sense like Heidegger, but in a stilted academic sense.
Reading T&M led me directly to Richard Palmer's book Hermeneutics, especially for context on Schleiermacher and Dilthey (two of Gadamer's biggest interlocutors).
Well, help for formulating a hermeneutical framework for thinking and writing about sports, especially the importance of tradition and the interpreter's present, the famous fusion of horizons concept, and the elevated role of language as our house of being and world-constructor, basically.
Obviously very good and very important for anyone thinking about tradition, language, art, and knowledge.
But, contrary to some silly reviews on here, it's actually quite accessible to anyone who has read about these questions before.
You'll get the most out of this if you've already read some Kant, Hegel, and Heidegger, but Gadamer always rehearses the claims of his interlocutors generously.
Several sections of the texts structurally enact Gadamer's own claim - which is to say, they establish the question as emergent through tradition and language.
Ich wollte doch auch mal mit einem Titel aufploppen, den ich gerade wieder lese.
In ons hele onderzoek is gebleken dat de zekerheid die het gebruik van wetenschappelijke methoden biedt niet volstaat om waarheid te garanderen.
Integendeel, uit ons onderzoek is gebleken dat de aanspraak die zij van oudsher maken op een bijzondere, humane betekenis legitiem is.
dat in hun kennis het eigen zijn van de kenner mede in het spel komt, stelt weliswaar een grens aan de 'methode', maar niet aan de wetenschap.
waar het werktuig van de methode tekortschiet, moet en kan juist een discipline van vragen en onderzoeken, die instaat voor waarheid, uitkomst bieden."Een mooi einde van een uitermate moeilijk werk.
Gadamer manages to clearly describe the conditions for understanding, revealing many great ideas also present in Derrida, Levinas and others.
It is not an easy book, but due to Gadamer's skill in explaining, the ideas manage to get across quite well.Especially noteworthy is the unbelievable achievement of Gadamer to cross the boundaries of hermeneutics as a practice of understanding texts, towards an ontological hermeneutics.
The last part of Wahrheit und Methode is of paramount importance to understand these ideas and I would recommend it the most - even though it becomes most clear if one reads the entire book.
The work of Gadamer has transformed my life on an individual and spiritual level.
This work is dense and thorough.
The application of the mode of thought discussed is all encompassing and difficult to employ as it can hardly be called a method.
I feel like this is possible the most important philosophical text of our time and essential for anyone working in the humanities or social sciences.
Too underrated and unknown for the impact that Gadamer's thought can have on placing scientific positivism into question.
His thoughts are everywhere and he is seldom referenced.
Gadamer's Truth and Method is treatise on his thoughts on hermeneutics. He examines hermeneutics through the lens of language and assesses the issues language brings to understanding. Gadamer's writing is difficult, therefore, it is important to get a worthy translation. The first two thirds of the book will make no sense unless the last thirds is read. I found it very helpful in developing a complete understanding of the field of hermeneutics, but it is not a book for everyone.
This is Gadamer's Magnum Opus. It's not a light read, but deeply enriching if you put the time into it. I consider it the definitive book of the twentieth century on Hermeneutics. If you are interested in interpretation, translation theory, and philosophies of experience, this is a must read. My own understanding of the Islamic tradition is greatly informed by many of the points made in this fairly hefty tome.
I completely respect this work for its place in the tradition of thought, and what it has done for tradition. That being said, it is not an enjoyable read. I thoroughly enjoy reading Heidegger, and I felt that having read Heidegger made much of Gadamer's work somewhat superfluous and repetitive. The thought on play was probably one of the most innovative sections of the work.This is an important text for tradition, but I think that its place has been somewhat superseded and displaced.
Gadamer is a pivotal figure in hermeneutics. He seeks to disarm the readers confidence in method as the source of truth in hermeneutics, rather the text is allowed to speak for itself...to ask its own questions, and to encounter the reader in their time through the tradition to which both the reader and the text belong.
I didn’t know much sign language but was eager to show off what little I had.
It didn’t occur to her that the sign I made only meant I wasn’t fluent in American Sign Language.
I believe therapists should be familiar with hermeneutics as should anyone who needs to understand and communicate with anyone else.The deaf client had been telling me she had a voice in her head that wouldn’t shut up.
Prejudice is when you believe you understand before all the facts are in; when you pre-judge.
We were both pre-judging; me, about the nature of the voice, and she, about the meaning of my sign.
Si bien tiene aspectos interesantes referidos a las ciencias del espíritu (filosofía), una crítica al modelo racional del siglo XVIII y una forma de entender y valorar la hermenéutica, en algunos momentos me pareció bastante tedioso...pero es mi opinión, sin duda, éste debe ser un libro cumbre en la filosofía (fenomenológica?) bueno no tengo mucho conocimiento; la verdad, no es mi fuerte...
Filosofía de la Historia. Clase 3. Leí el capítulo 9. También obligatoria para Filosofía del Lenguaje. Me resultó bastante pesado y difícil de entender. Creo que leer de a pedazos tampoco ayuda.
