https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383028.The_Hard_Way
Reacher, alone in the dark. Armed and dangerous. Coming back. This is what I call perfection.The Hard Way is my most favorite in Jack Reacher series so far. Just when I thought Lee Child's book couldn't possibly get any better, he has outdone himself once again with this unputdownable read! If I could, I would give it more than 5 stars.Who would have thought that just sitting and drinking coffee would get Jack Reacher involved in the investigation of the kidnapping for ransom of a woman and her
This is what I call perfection.The Hard Way is my most favorite in Jack Reacher series so far.
Just when I thought Lee Child's book couldn't possibly get any better, he has outdone himself once again with this unputdownable read!
However, for Reacher, he was even more than ready to do it the hard way.This tenth installment was a fantastic blend of suspense, mystery, thriller, and a slight touch of romance (aha!), all rolled into one amazing story where surprises seemed to lurk around every corner.
You’ll definitely get a great deal of enjoyment and excitement out of it!The Hard Way is not just a crime mystery/thriller.
It's hard to believe that I used to like this character and the writing of Lee Child. This type of story too much resembles most of his latest. Two versions left until I have them all read, but I'm being bored. 2 of 10 stars
The Jack Reacher virgin.
Reading The Hard Way. Feeling he has to give Lee Child a go, just because every one else has.
Can guess the time really really accurately.
Goes on about it all the time.
Likes to repeat the sentence: Jack Reacher, doing it The Hard Way. Over and over again.
Talk in short sentences, just stating the facts.
Repeating sentences.Back to the Jack Reacher virgin.
Jack Reacher worked it out about 400 pages later.
Turns out it wasn't such a Hard Way. The book's complete nonsense, and Reacher's laughable.
And he can't say he'd refuse another Reacher book from the mother-in-law.
I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all.
Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies.He embraces it.
Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values.
Reacher, alone in the dark.
Doing it the hard way." -- Lee Child, page 460A sort of routine Jack Reacher thriller seemingly involving a kidnap / ransom with one or two good twists, I think this would have benefited from some editorial tightening to the plot.
(At nearly 500 pages, it's still just a somewhat ordinary crime / mystery story.) 'Girl Friday' Lauren Pauling - an ex-federal agent turned private eye - was an appealing co-star but disappointingly of fades into the background towards the finale.
The Hard Way wasn't horrible, but it was telling that it took me a week and a half to finish it.
With The Hard Way, however, we have the first time my rating has dropped down to just the two stars.For me, this book failed to pack the punch of the prior Jack Reacher books.
These books are usually filled with mystery with a side dose of action, yet The Hard Way failed to deliver on these points.
Usually, Lee Child saves the book through a big action sequence at the end, yet this one fell flat and was over much quicker than usual.Perhaps The Hard Way was simply a blip, or maybe it was just my reading mood, but this one failed to give me what I usually enjoy about the Jack Reacher stories.
Jack Reacher, book 10Jack Reacher known as the best man-hunter in the world ends up helping Edward Lane, a well-paid mercenary, whose wife and stepdaughter have been kidnapped.
Initially Reacher volunteers to help, as the case develops, things prove not to be what they seem.
Alarm bells ring when he discovers Lane's previous wife was kidnapped and also during a mission two members of his crew were left behind in a foreign country...what is Lane hiding, what type of character is he?, can he be trusted?
reacher doing it the hard way this was this first lee child book i ever read and i had to read all of them after that. five out of five stars all the way
As with every Lee Child story I have read I am just in awe of how he writes such a multi-layered tale.
Something that starts off relatively simple, only to evolve into a gripping and heart-stopping read.
The story in The Hard Way I felt was incredibly strong, I did work out a couple of the plot twists but they were all just so masterfully executed and I enjoyed every single page of this book.
(Though what was his fascination with asking everybody if they had seen Yoko Ono in New York?
If Reacher is a Yoko Ono fan then me and him might just fall out.)
The hard way (Jack Reacher #10), Lee Childعنوان: راه سخت - کتاب 10 - از سری جک ریچر؛ نویسنده: لی چایلد؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1395؛ در 539 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821974؛
It's hard to go wrong with Lee Child - I've not yet read a Jack Reacher novel I didn't enjoy. This one isn't as gripping as some of the others - 61 Hours, for example - yet it delivers everything one expects. Reacher's Sherlock Holmes-style deductions, his effortless strong-arm tactics with the bad guys, together with a fling with a female character before slipping away. OK, so that's the formula for all the Reacher novels, clothed in a different plot each time, but it works. An entertaining read - what's not to like?
It's only sharpened his edge.Reacher is so incredibly observant---well, yeah, it helps that this is fiction and anyone can look brilliant when it merely takes a keystroke, let me enjoy my fantasies, will 'ya!?It always amazes me how the protagonist in a story can take a tiny bit of information and blow it up into an answer.
Just reading the way Reacher thinks makes me consider how I observe life around me.
She's married to Tony and they have a daughter Melody; they work an organic farm up near Norwich in England.Kate is Lane's second wife and she has an eight-year-old daughter, Jade.Patricia Joseph was Anne's sister.
(Sigh) I've said it before, and I'm going to say it again, I can't get enough of Jack Reacher, I think he's becoming my new addiction, after the end of each book, it just leaves me wanting more, and The Hard Way is no exception!!
This time Jack Reacher finds himself in the wrong place at the wrong time, or is it the other way around, in the right place at the right time?
But as Reacher follows the trail of the supposed kidnappers, he realizes Lane is not all that he seems, and he puts all his superior skills to use to get to the bottom of a little war, and he's doing it the hard way!Everything you'd expect from Jack Reacher and Lee Child!!
Not as good as other Reacher books.
There is almost no action until the end of the book.
The best Reacher stories have been thrillers, with a bad guy plotting and trying to harm Reacher.
It’s mostly just solving the mystery with some action at the end.
In one scene the good guys are safe in their house.
I almost wish I had not read the book because one back story was too horrible for me.
I’ve read a lot of fiction with bad guys doing horrible things, but other books did not bother me the way this did.
Swearing language: I don’t recall any.
Reacher doesn't just think outside of the box, he takes the box, throws it away and comes up with impossible deductions.The case is solved because a kid's bedroom doesn't have any old toys in it. Yeah, I know, right?Eat it, Sherlock Homeboy.
The Hard Way is a classic Jack Reacher novel - great pacing, clues are there but you'll miss them until Reacher identifies them, and Reacher puts away a slew of bad guys by himself at the end.
Generally, this is a fun read with all the elements you expect.
Two things work less well than in a typical Reacher novel though.
First, there's no real tension or believable relationship between Reacher and a former-FBI agent with whom he has several consensual romps.
Make this the 10th or so Reacher novel you read: not the first.
Having said that, it's a great beach read, as they say.
Lessons learned: kidnappings are never as simple as they appear.
Pay attention when a main character goes to Staples.
England is the best place for vigilante killings, but use quiet automatic weapons, because loud ones scare British people.
Go to small bars in England - Americans are supposed to buy pints for everyone in the bar.
Refrigerator art can be a major plot point.
Pokers can hurt.
Corollary to the go to the bathroom/your food arrives in a restaurant rule: when one of the good guy leaves the stakeout, the bad guys will capture everyone else.
The British have bad teeth and bitter beer, but are not always as bad as they seem.
it was okay, but not Reacher at his best.
Edward Lane’s wife and child has been kidnapped and the kidnapper wants a ransom.
Because Edward Lane has a history that Jack Reacher is bound to find out…I love this series like no other.
Jack Reacher is a guy who delivers time and again and he did not fail this time either.
As the plot goes on, Reacher discovers that Lane’s first wife had also been kidnapped and had gotten killed in a botched FBI Case.
The agent responsible for that case is back in action too, as is the sister of Lane’s first wife; and there is some amount of NYPD involvement.
I really just picked this up for a reading challenge but once i started this i could not put it down. My first Reacher book and i LOVED IT!!!!!I did realize who the bad guy was quite fast which wasn’t what i typically like. The amount of detail in this book was amazing. I felt like i knew everything and was there when it was taking place. The book kept my attention the whole time which is saying a lot since i am easily distracted. This book almost reminded me of a James Bond type movie…..
Ehhh, this was good but not brilliant. Reacher is enjoyable, but this wasn't a massively gripping story or plot. It was pretty much everything you expect from a Jack Reacher novel, only it was a bit more predictable. Even if I don't quite know how I guessed the plot, it is the first time I've managed it with the Reacher novels.
Maybe “The Hard Way” isn’t one of Child’s most literary efforts, but I found his writing so heavily dependent on such clichés and on the repetition, ad nauseam, of hardboiled-lite “sentences” like “Reacher said nothing” (definitely the prizewinner) that I can remember little else of the novel.
But what will stick with me is all the really irritating stuff, such as Reacher’s “clock in his head” that always tells him the time, awake or asleep, to the minute, or his smug knowledge of all sorts of arcane or specialized things (the exact topography of Manhattan, the farming methods and ancient burial practices of Britons, etc.) yet total ignorance of such things as cell phones.
But if Child starts doing the repetitive, comic-book-earnest “Reacher.
Reacher witnesses this innocuous event, paying it little attention while spending time in New York City.
When called upon to answer questions about the man he saw, Reacher soon realises that he may have witnessed part of an elaborate ransom payment.
Child brings some of his personal knowledge to the pages of this novel, adding a new layer of excitement and intrigue.As interesting as Child can make these Reacher novels, I am always surprised to see what can be done to one up the series to that point.
Child keeps Reacher as a 'nothing holds me down' type character, returning to cities he has already visited (perhaps one downside to the series), with adventures wherever he goes.
You know what you're getting, though there was less of the violence this time, more police procedural in nature.However...The twists?
They seemed really obvious too, though I can't say they detracted from the reading.I've not really paid much attention to how infuriatingly smug Reacher can be at times either but it was in your face here.
My favorite incredibly patronising moment was the following: "two roads in, radial, like spokes in a wheel.
If twelve o'clock was due north, there were roads at the one o'clock position and the two o'clock position".How many different ways do you have to say it?
Jack Reacher is in the wrong place at the right time Again?"While that moment in the first few pages of "The Hard Way" gave me a bit of pause (that coupled with Child's habit of switching back and forth between the 1st and the 3rd person point of view - between novels not in one particular book-- made me feel a bit like I was back in the four hundred and forty-fifth Louis L'Amour Western where the hero hides in the lava beds) that almost caused me to put this aside to read something else for now.
Jack Reacher does it again!
These books are a lot of fun to read, even though they are a bit violent for my tastes.
I love seeing how Reacher's mind works and how he figures out the most implausible scenarios.
And he manages to travel without a driver's license, credit card, or cell phone, and only one set of clothing.
In reality this would be impossible, but it's still kind of fun.
I almost thought this story would end without a lot of details of guns, but of course, that came into play in the last 15% of the book -- less than some, though.
So Edward Lane wants to hire Reacher to track down the bad guys--and find his wife and child.But those of us who are fans of the Reacher novels know its NEVER simple with this series.
Fast-paced; well written and action packed describes this book.A bit violent--so if you are looking for a 'cozy' mystery---this is not it.The Jack Reacher novels are a series but can be read out of order; the do stand alone.
He is not a 'nice' guy--but if you needed help against the bad guys, he'd be the one you need.Recommended for fans of mysteries, action, suspense and thrillers.
There is so much to love about Lee Child's novels because he has created the character of Jack Reacher of whom there is so much to love.
Reading previous novels in the series gives the reader background and appreciation into Jack Reacher's character, but you can really pick up any novel in the series and start reading without missing a beat.
This is a great stand alone novel that still manages to explore and add to the complex character of Jack Reacher.
I only have six more novels to go to be caught up with all of Child's Jack Reacher series.
"How was it?""OK for what it was.""The style?""Short sentences.
Short words.
Do you believe Tom Cruise as a six foot five blond-haired ex-MP?""I'm asking the questions here.
Talking about the style?""No.""The plot?""No.""Was it compelling?""Sort of?""Any big problems?""The simplicity, I suppose.""What do you mean?""It was obvious what was going on by page 75.""So?""So I had to spend the next 400 pages shouting at Reacher to open his eyes and see what was up.""That sounds compelling.""Only in an infuriating sense.""Anything else?""His long passages of dialogue.""Because?""Sometimes you forget who's talking.""Which explains why I'm now asking the questions and you're answering them.""Oops."
Even though this book is called The Hard Way, Jack Reacher skillfully overcomes all his obstacles, be it a locked door or a gang of henchman, with great panache because he is Jack Reacher.
First, he is surprised by the general existence of text messaging.
Second, he is surprised by a cell phone’s vibrating ringtone.
It’s common knowledge that Reacher doesn’t own a cell phone but I suspect he maintains a willful ignorance when it comes to developments in cell phone technology because, goddammit, the man needs a real challenge!
For Reacher, perhaps finding a worthy opponent -- finding “the hard way” -- is his most impossible mission.
