https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124181.Death_in_the_Woods_and_Other_Stories
The collection is made up of 16 stories: Death in the Woods; The Return; There She Is—She is Taking Her Bath; The Lost Novel; The Fight; Like a Queen; That Sophistication; In a Strange Town; These Mountaineers; A Sentimental Journey; A Jury Case; Another Wife; A Meeting South; The Flood; Why They Got Married; Brother Death, ...عنوان: مرگ در جنگل و 25 داستان دیگر؛ نویسندگان: شروود آندرسن و دیگران؛ مترجمها: صفدر تقی زاده؛ محمدعلی صفریان؛ تهران، نشر نو، 1362؛ در هشت و 502 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، آسونه، 1381؛ چاپ سوم 1382؛ شابک: 9649326202؛ موضوع: مجموعه داستانهای کوتاه سده 20 ماین مجموعه دارای بیست و شش داستان کوتاه از بیست و پنج نویسنده مشهور جهان است.
که بسیاری از انسانها، تنها نامِ انسان را به یدک میکشند و در اصل تفاوتی که با حیوان ندارند هیچ، بلکه از حیوان نیز پست تر هستندامیدوارم از خواندنِ این داستان لذت ببرید<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
I thought I knew Sherwood Anderson, and then I read this story collection.
They are so direct that I often forgot I was reading a story, and felt like I was listening to a man talk.
He really captures that.Anderson was a very sensitive man.
He was touched by all the details in life.
He is only capturing the music of life.
Some of these stories cut me deep, but a wonderful feeling to it.
In the story 'Brother Death', two children are talking about a couple of tree stumps that have been cut down.
That's what Anderson can do.
I think that Sherwood Anderson at his best is an incredible writer.
Check out Winesburg, Ohio, the title story in this collection, or any of his stories on the topic of women for proof of this, especially "There She Is -- Taking Her Bath".
But aside from the title story and all of his other stories of womanhood -- full of that Jazz Age combination of charm, insight, and sexism -- I found at least half of this collection really tough to get into or care about.
"There She Is--Taking Her Bath" was my favorites of the collection for this reason.
Anderson could also unsettle with the best of the Southern writers.

What he doesn’t know, he invents, using his personal memories and experiences—even those unconnected to Mrs. Grimes herself—to fill out his fictions.In his attempt to understand how the sight of the old woman’s corpse has managed to exert such a strong, mystical power over his imagination, the narrator blends fact, memory, and invention to create a work of art—namely, the short story “A Death in the Woods.” Just as the narrator reveals more about himself than about Mrs. Grimes, the true subject of “A Death in the Woods” is the short story’s own creation, not the titular event.Throughout her life—beginning with the Germans and continuing through her married life and on through her death—the old woman’s energies were entirely focused on procuring food for the men and animals under her care.
Прочитал только Death in the Woods.Мутная история, очень символичная. Но в символах я так и не разобрался.Названия времен года написаны с большой буквы, олицетворения, относят нас к идее перерождения природы. Согласно критике на рассказ, ГГ представляет собой триединство Деметры, Прозерпины и Гекаты и воплощает фигуру кормилицы. Автор намекает, что ничто не подвластно нашему полному разумению, именно поэтому мы мифологизируем события и людей. Так что, не стоит и переживать, что я вообще не понял, о чем речь в рассказе.
Less raw than Winesburg, more straightforward, not as potent, but his weaker work is still strong.
A collection of selected short storiesصفدر تقی زاده و محمدعلی صفریان دوره ی درازی در کار ترجمه ی آثار، همکاری داشته اند و نتیجه ی این همکاری آثار متعددی ست که به عنوان نمونه های خوب ترجمه به فارسی در طیف های مختلف از این دو باقی مانده.
بیست و شش داستان کوتاهی که در این مجموعه گردآوری شده اند از نویسندگان مختلف قرن نوزده و بیست میلادی و در طیف های وسیعی از ادگار آلن پو و تورگنیف تا نورمن میللر و دانالد بارتلمی قرار دارند.
تفاوت سبک و زبان در این اثار، و انتقال تا حد ممکن این ویژگی ها به زبان فارسی، از مشخصات این مجموعه است.
Well, ain't this a goddamn boring group of stories. Put ya' ta sleep.But there's a ghost creepin' through 'em that ya' might not know about, in behind 'em ya' see. It's creakin' in my mind right now, seein' as nobody oils it much 'round here no mo'. If ya can catch a glimpse of it, might move ya' ta tears.
Not as exceptional as Winesburg, Ohio simply because the stories did not overlap. Still, the title story was well-drawn and all displayed his characteristic talent for painting portraits of personalities in 10-15 pages. The Return was the homecoming story to which every adult who has moved away from a hometown can relate.
Only read "Death in the Woods" which is beautifully sad, even though I read this for college I did enjoy this story.
Nothing special - even the title story was not particularly memorable.
“Winesburg, Ohio” is the quintessential Anderson and as a result, it’s impossible to look at his other work without making comparisons.
It’s as refreshing as a good craft talk, the completely useless kind where someone asks the famous writer how they get their ideas, how they finish a novel, and they laugh with that absolutely desolate merriment and tell you that it’s different every time, that no one really knows how to write.
It’s impossible to tell how far Anderson’s narrator is from his own life; sometimes he seems to include his own biography as a way into the story.
Death in the WoodsI read this story for a project in my AP Literature class, and as a person who doesn't like being told what to read I didn't expect to like this short story as much as I did.
This story teaches a valuable lesson-that sometimes the good-natured die at the hands of an endless cycle.
The good natured being the woman, Mrs. Grimes and the endless cycle being the feeding.
Not only is the theme shown through Mrs. Grimes own difficulties but through the growth of the narrator as he recounts her story.
Hemingway has nothing on Anderson when it comes to the short sentence, and that suits the stark description and narrative about a woman married into virtual slavery condemned to serve a family of male thieves, liars, and drunks:She was an old woman and lived on a farm near the town in which I lived.
All country and small-town people have seen such old women, but no one knows much about them.
. [She] comes into town .
and gets some salt pork and some beans.
Then she gets a pound or two of sugar and some flour.
مرگ در جنگل، شروود آندرسن، 1933، مجموعه داستانی ست که در سال های 1926 تا 1930 نوشته شده؛ بازگشت، آخرین داستان، ستیز، مانند یک ملکه، در شهری عجیب، کوهنوردان، یک سفر احساساتی، همسر دیگر، دیدار از جنوب، رودخانه، چرا آنها ازدواج کردند، برادر مرگ، و...
زن و شوهرش که بنظر می رسد یک اسب دزد باشد، در حاشیه ی جنگل زندگی می کنند، از دو فرزندشان، دختر مرده، و پسر که زنده مانده، شبیه پدر است.
زن که گذشته ای غمناک داشته، در خانه ی یک آلمانی زندگی می کرده، و مورد بدرفتاری همسر آلمانی قرار گرفته، با جیک گریمز، شوهر فعلی اش، که سبب فرار زن از خانه ی آلمانی شده، ازدواج کرده.
There are books I read for enjoyment, others for my writing life. This collection from S Anderson magically captures both. A story last year I worked on, was modeled after the self-title short.Why read: Sherwood manages to present casual setting/plots, with rich complex characters. . . invested in the psychology of gestures and process of thinking-- why do people do things, what are they thinking, and also isn't it ODD that things happen this way?
A wonderful collection of short stories that explore the nature of relationships, how we communicate with each other, and how we cope and what we tell ourselves to endure. Place and setting also play important roles - mainly in the Virginia mountains - helping to set the tone and mood of each story. The images are sure to stay with me. Great writing!
Sherwood Anderson as a writer is a perfect grotesque reflector. The story shows the development of an artist. The narrator fist struggles to tell the story, but at the end he tells it beautifully. The disturbing object like a corpse has been described beautifully which is a part of the author's grotesque style.
These late Sherwood Anderson short stories have a remarkable delicacy of touch in their use of language. Each is rather like a fine painting, its narrative visually evocative of a past that never stays past.
How much do I love this book, and the title story in particular? I can say it simply, and without hyperbole: "Death in the Woods" is the best story I have ever read, and I would give most anything to have written it.
Short, but creepy and haunting. The tragic tale of a woman's harsh, unforgiving life seen through the eye's of a narrator who draws parallels between his own life. The death is eerie, mysterious, and unforgettable as the dogs, (or more wolves really) circle around her for one last feeding.
the father of the modern american short story. a must read for short story lovers.
Three stars overall, five for some stories, less for others, as is usual with story collections.
DVFHGUFYGUYF
this is the best book I have ever read
Read "Death in the Woods"; wow, I'm impressed, I didn't think I would like it that much. Anderson's really good at reflecting upon the state of America
Death in the Woods is one of my favorite short stories. I would recommend this to anyone.
Sherwood Anderson is a master. Period.
