https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/883398.Cruel_Shoes
Yes, some of the vignettes are so convoluted and abstract that it is hard to understand some of the points, but every one of the episodes has a flavor to it.
“Cuticles bought and sold.” Many people had told Carolyn of her beautiful cuticles, and Roger was especially proud of them, but she thought, “This is the way I could buy Roger the shinbone polish!” And she rushed into the store.Later at home, she waited anxiously as Roger came up the steps of their flat.
He opened the door and wobbled over to the fireplace, suspiciously holding one arm behind his back.“Merry Christmas!” they both said, almost simultaneously.Roger spoke.
A strange little book. Funny. Utterly absurd. At times hard to follow. Full of photos of Steve Martin. Weird little poems. Reminded me of Richard Brautigan, in places.When I was finished with it, I rolled the book up and sucked it into my lungs.
"It isn't funny," she said, after briefly perusing it.
I had purchased it for her at the library bookstore because I know she is a Steve Martin fan, and so to hear her say it wasn't funny was pretty significant.
It isn't very funny.
I love Steve Martin.
I love laughing.
But this book just wasn't funny.
Polyester, disco, and cocaine were all pretty popular in 1977.
Reading this book, I couldn't help imagining Martin typing furiously, his upper lip encrusted in Colombian marching powder, laughing riotously at every turn of phrase, seeing himself as the 20th Century's—nay, all of history's—wildest and craziest guy.
And who can deny the brilliance of Martin's instructions for folding soup?"First prepare the soup of your choice and pour it into a bowl.
Lift the bowl ever so gently so that the soup retains the shape of the bowl.
Lift this soup up by the corners and fold slowly into a cylindrical soup staff.
Square off the cube by stuffing the cracks with this cylindrical soup staff.
When that lunch bell chimes, impress your friends by forming the soup back into a bowl shape, and enjoy!""Cruel Shoes" is not quite a lost classic, but it is worth having around for the occasional chuckle.
some folks reviewing this, seem to not get this book at all.
unfortunately, steve martin's knack for making some pretty droll movies the past 15-20 years makes it pretty difficult for a reader today to read this without already expecting something else entirely.
is it art?
some of it i believe reaches the level of art.
but all of it makes me laugh, and is timeless -- way more so than, say, a george carlin book, or any other writings you get from stand-up comedians.

Surely this must be a sign of awesomeness, and considering I have Martin's LET'S GET SMALL album memorized and PURE DRIVEL is my favorite short story collection of all time, I practically floated home from the bookstore.
What I found unfortunately was a book with two good stories out of almost 30.
Also painful was the original book design.
The text was 14+ pt and the words were thrown into the gutter, forcing you to break the spine to even read them.
B&W photographs of Martin performing on stage MIGHT have been interesting if they weren't thrown in the middle of stories.
i remember finding this book in a friend's house in 1979.
i was 8 and it was very confusing.
the book reminds me of woody allen's early stories, only more absurdist and experimental.
my favorites were "demolition of the cathedral at chartres" (which is actually kind of heartbreaking), "the bohemians" (which is just genius), "dynamite king," "how to fold soup," and "the day the dopes came over."I was sitting at home, peeking through the blinds at my neighbor's wife, minding my own business, when my doorbell rang.
"We don't know," came the reply.
I immediately knew the dopes had come over.
I borrowed this book several times from the library whilst in high school, and memorized a few of the poems, even. Steve Martin is my hero.O pointy birds, o pointy pointy, anoint my head, anointy nointy!It's just typical (seventies) Steve Martin. Dry and absurd.
Big fan of Steve Martin...liked this book because it really shows that there are lots of creative paths he can still go down because he is so multi-dimensional as far as creative intuition.

I found this book on my Dad's shelf and gave it a go. Quirky is the best adjective I can think of for this.I was expecting a "Seinlanguage" type of book, a verbatim book of his stand up comedy. Instead it's little short stories about a page or two long and poems.They are mostly kind've dumb and not that funny, but it gets 4 stars because a handful of them are genius, just brilliant.My favorite is a Gift of the Magi parody.This is a very quick read - I got through it in about half an hour.
I was going to give this book 3 stars, because I remember how some of these stories/jokes were terrrrible, but 30 years later and parts of this book still haunt me so I admit he's done something impressive, and at times comically beautiful.
Possibly one of the great classics of English literature. These are some of the most hilarious short pieces written in the second half of the twentieth century. Hyperbolic? Ante up with something better.
I felt I needed to put this book somewhere on my list. It was the first gift I ever gave to my husband. He would, like, talk about this book all the time, and then I found it at The Crow used bookstore in Vermont, and well...it became his Christmas gift.
Read this one after standing on my feet all day at a trade show. I thought the title matched the venue.
I got a paperback copy of this book the Christmas I was 13 years old. I have read it several times over the years
If you're a fan of the more refined Martin style, you probably won't enjoy this one.But man, if you are into the strange and funny because it's so ridiculous, it's 100 pages of comedy gold.Try these titles on for size:"The Boring Leading the Bored""Serious Dogs""Morse and the Naughty Magnets""Cows in Trouble""The Morning I Got Out of Bed"and my personal favorite, "How to Fold Soup"Perhaps you need the advice of a good comedian, and can find such helpful hints in "What to Say When the Ducks Show Up" or "Review of the Winslow Homer Show at L.A. County Art Museum."Now, anyone can write funny titles, but let's sample the text.
There are many nuances to the pieces sculpted here from critical self-effacement (The Stephen Martin Collection of American Art: The Man Behind the Genius, The Children Called Him Big Nose) to cultural critique (Demolition of the Cathedral at Chartres, Cruel Shoes, The Gift of the Magi Indian Giver).
But these critiques are so hidden, so unassuming, as to truly be genius.Steve Martin clearly shows talent in this short, but complex collection.
If you really want to get to the heart of Steve Martin at least in the context of this book, if not perhaps something deeper, I suspect the pieces entitled "The Complete Works of Alfredo Francesi" might hold a clue.
I will take my love of Steve Martin's early comedic works to my grave, but even a life-longer like me felt challenged by the utterly bizarre Cruel Shoes.
I'm not familiar with everything Steve Martin did on stage as a stand-up comic, but I love his albums from that era, and I'm pretty sure none of the stuff in this book appears on either one of those records.
It really is just a random smattering of weird shit Steve Martin wrote down for some reason, maybe because he was bored, or keeping a journal or something.

"When I woke up that morning, it didn't take me long to realize there were dogs in my nose."Cruel Shoes by Steve Martin.
Anyway it was during this time (late 1970s) that Steve wrote this book, which is just a hodge podge collection of strange, weird and often funny stories and ideas.
Then there are the totally absurd bits like "How To Fold Soup".It is a quick and easy read as there are only 120 some pages with many of those having black and white photos from Steve on stage doing his stand up.
Way back when I was a high school sophomore, my English teacher read selections from Cruel Shoes to our class.
Among the selections was the famous "Folding Soup" story.
When it was over, a classmate of mine leaned over and said to me that he could imagine me folding soup in the way Martin describes.
I'm not sure exactly what he meant, but I've always liked that memory.So now, lo these many years later, I finally got around the reading the book in its entirety.
Martin serves up absurdity with fast-food dispatch in this very short book. The tiny stories constitute a mixed bag, but I laughed pretty much the whole way. From bland suburban "bohemians" to dogs with serious literary tastes to the painful masochistic pleasures of the infamous "cruel shoes," Martin plays with everyday cliches and sets up expectations that he dashes with complete impertinence. This is my kind of humor.The whole book is posted online by some guy who apparently dashed it off with a slew of typos at:http://www.geocities.ws/humorbynutty/...(KevinR@Ky, corrected and amended in 2016)
An important book for me. I can faintly remember bringing a copy to school in 8th grade (back in 1979 or 1980), enjoying it with my chums, and trying to get the substitute math teacher to read it to the class (I can't remember whether he did or not). I love this book. I need absurdity: it massages my brain in such a good way, and this book has provided many a fine massage.
I was pretty much head-over-heals for Steve Martin when I was a kid. I loved this book, but reading it now just doesn't seem as funny as it was back then (it's still funny though). I started thinking about it: how many people can you name that are authors, comedians, musicians, and actors ALL IN ONE? This is one talented guy - worthy of being my childhood hero. I'm glad I held on to this book.
This is one of the funniest books ever written. It's akin to a stand-up act on paper, a series of short prose pieces that are remarkably absurdist. The photos of Martin throughout getting increasingly intoxicated while typing are the perfect leavening for installments like "How to Fold Soup" and "What to Say When the Ducks Show Up."
These short stories are smart and silly; just what you would expect from Steve Martin, the comedian. (As opposed to what? Steve Martin, the massage therapist?) Cruel Shoes is not as good as Pure Drivel, his other collection of short stories, but I'd still recommend it and I'd still marry Steve, you know, if it ever came up.
There is some really, really funny stuff in here, but a few of the pieces are just not developed quite enough, so that they seem only beginnings of good ideas. Martin's great (great), but he's not yet at the height of his powers here, and why did he make those damn "Cheaper by the Dozen" and "Pink Panther" movies? Jesus H!
I was a huge Steve Martin fan. Saw him in high school at the hialai stadium in Hartford(anyone from Connecticut knows how long ago that was) My girlfriend at the time(now my wife, Terry) made me the bunny ears, I made her the arrow through the head. He was a wild and crazy guy. You need anymore reason why I still own this very ame book I bought in High School
