https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900088.Old_Hat_New_Hat
Fun, Fun, Fun. I wish I could have read this as a child and experienced this story then.
Yet, my niece and nephew both were able to experience.
They both had so much fun with this.
My niece read the story out loud to us and the nephew laughed and laughed at the hats which made the rest of us laugh too.Simple story about hats and the hats are drawn with such character and humor.
The whole thing works so well.
The arts was almost perfect, same with the simple story.
The perfect story for a 3-7 year old.
A delightful ending!Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
The cutest book! Great for little kids.
The old is sometimes the best18 November 2013 This is an attack against the crass consumerism of our age and how the good, faithful, and familiar are at times better than the wonderful new item that is blasted by advertising logos that are constantly splattered across our vision. The story is about how a young bear, wearing his favourite hat, is wondering through the city and sees a beautiful new hat in the window of a hat store and decides that he wants to get rid of his old tatty hat in favour
The story is about how a young bear, wearing his favourite hat, is wondering through the city and sees a beautiful new hat in the window of a hat store and decides that he wants to get rid of his old tatty hat in favour of something fancy and new.
Much to the disgust and disappointment of the store owner, the perfect hat is the faithful old tatty hat that he walked in with, and we can even see the anger and disgust on the store owner's face as the little bear models himself in front of the mirror and then walks out of the store the proud owner of his old hat (for which he did not have to pay a cent).
Can't say if I ever read this when I was a kid, but it's lots of fun and thankfully, one of the few books I honestly don't mind reading over and over again.The text is very plain - just "new hat" "tall hat" etc, but you can flesh out the story very easily by adding to the narration - or not, as you like.
The toddlers love following the story as the bear tries on all different kinds of hats (Hugh does his funny little grunt-laugh that he's been doing recently, that always makes it sound like he gets the joke).
This book introduces children to different shapes and different sizes.
Mr Bear is looking for a new hat because his hat is raggedy and old.
He enters a hat shop and tries some on with wonderful different colours and patterns but nothing seems to quite take his fancy until… The book looks at a situation that the children can relate to for example going shopping and gets them to think about what they like and being able to give their opinions or make their own decisions on certain things.
This book is ideal for use of key vocabulary and could be perfect for a Maths lesson.
I rated this one a 5 because I think that's what my almost 2-year-old would rate it if he knew how!
He loves loves loves this book.
And not just in the toddler way, where they want the same book over and over until they find a new one that they want over and over - this one keeps coming back.
I think one of the reasons is that "hat" was one of his first words, so he can "read" along with this book.
This is a fun, enjoyable book, and uses lots of different adjectives to describe the various hats.
In  Old Hat, New Hat a Berenstain Bear walks into a store in hopes of buying a new hat. While shopping, the reader gets exposed to a slew of adjectives and silly pictures of a variety of hats. In the end, the reader gets to see that new isn't always better.
Atticus says: "this is weird book cause he didn't want his old hat, he saw so many new hats but he didn't like them, so he take his old hat"
One of my favorites for a first reader. My daughter loved this book as a toddler and still enjoys it at ten. It never gets old.
That book had a few things that I like, like rhymes rhythm and detail.
Things like that really make a book or story interesting.First the rhyme, it was very well thought out.
I like the way they combine the rhyme with the details/adjectives.
“Too big, too small.” Perfect combinations in a children’s book.
And its easier to learn in song and not be bored when your doing it.Third the detail/adjectives like big, small, flat, and tall.
Rhyme, rhythm, and adjectives are part of the best things of this book.
So read this book its helpful for adjectives.
Despite the cover, the bears on the *inside* of this book are less stylized and cutesy than the bears in the newer books, and the story is an early reader instead of a longer read-aloud.It's a cute little story about a cub suffering from "grass is greener" syndrome, but unable to decide which hat to get.
I do find that many of the words in this book are too uncommon, too long, or follow too odd spelling rules for this book to really function as an early reader.
This is a cute story of a young boy bear who wants a new hat.
He goes into the store with his old hat This is a book intended for k-2nd grade, as a Bernstein bear book.
This is a colorful picture book, that has a dominant theme of teaching kids to appreciate what they have.
I rated this book well because it was a cute way of showing children to appreciate certain things, as small as to your hat.
This child wanted something new, as do ,any children.
Although they have tons of toys they want more, until they realize the toys they already have are good enough.
My number 1 favourite book to read to the kids is Old Hat New Hat! The text is so predictable and they love reading along. "Too big, too small. Too flat, too tall." And maybe because it brings back fun childhood memories. It was always one of my favourite books, along with Are You My Mother! I may be slightly obsessed with old classic children's books and if I can get my kids to like the books I used to like, then I get to relive them all over again!
This is a classic from my childhood. I read it to a 3rd grade class today where few of them had ever seen it. In this story, of very simple beginner reading words, a bear is looking for a new hat. He is CURIOUS about trying on many hats and seeing what will work best for him. He was OPEN MINDED in trying them all on and seeing what they looked on him before deciding. He gains APPRECIATION for something he already has after all the time he spends looking. Can you guess what it is?
E BERThis is a classic from my childhood. I read it to a 3rd grade class today where few of them had ever seen it. In this story, of very simple beginner reading words, a bear is looking for a new hat. He is CURIOUS about trying on many hats and seeing what will work best for him. He was OPEN MINDED in trying them all on and seeing what they looked on him before deciding. He gains APPRECIATION for something he already has after all the time he spends looking. Can you guess what it is?
Great story It reminme at my dad. He has a blanket that he love. The poor blanket is see through. We had tryed to get him a new no such luck. That is what this book remind me. He feels so confortable with that blaket why getting a new one.Extencion: Have the children ask their parents if they have something that is very oldand they stull have it.
This is a book straight out of my childhood... complete with a story about me reciting it from memory to a lady who was waiting for a square dancing partner as I looked at her and, in my three year old voice said, "Of course you realize I don't actually read". 32 years later I still can't get enough of "Too fancy too frilly, too shiny too silly".
This was a cute book about a kid going into a shop looking for a new hat. Although there are little words, there is a numerous story that children can follow. The shop owners find new hats, big hats, small hats, fancy hats...all kinds of hats. In the end, the child decides that she loves her own hat and leaves without buying anything. This is a great story that can be used to teach opposites.
Old Hat, New Hat is a very good book. There is a bear and he has a very old hat so he is sad. He sees a new hat and he likes it. He goes and tries the hat on. THen he finds just right of a hat - the old hat.
Ordered this from my library network sight unseen and, when it came in, realized it was a childhood favorite (and the cause of my love of hats? Maybe.) My son seems to really enjoy it and I enjoy reading it to him.
A bear is trying on a pile of hats and driving the shopkeeper crazy by rejecting them for every reason under the sun. I loved the pictures of the frustrated bear and the irritated shopkeeper! Kids will love this one.
Probably my all time favorite book from childhood (either this or "The monster at the end of this book!). And when I was little I had no idea that the book is great for expanding vocabulary which we know is one of the best things you can do to help a child learning to read.
This book is great for younger children. It has a lot of vocabulary that includes colors, sizes, and designs. This is a book that grabs attention and can be read multiple times and still be enjoyed. The hats are silly too, which can bring a smile to readers of all ages.
Another one of our collection that is always re-read. I love the lesson that something new doesn't always mean something better! Of course, the silly hat is our favourite! A charming beginner book for young toddlers and a wonderful starter for new readers...
One of the rare kids’ books you can happily read every day, day after day. The text has a nice rhythm and rhyme to keep things going, and the hats quickly escalate to ridiculous. Finally the main character realizes maybe his old hat is best after all.
Great for teaching to read, and not as annoying as many books designed for this purpose.
Decent book.
Great for sight word repetition. Also adjectives for young kids.
I guess this book is intended for new readers, but there really are a lot of words even though it is a simple story. I am not impressed by the book.
