https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125955.White
Unfortunately I had a tough time with this book.
In the beginning, I was pretty bored.
It felt so similar to the second book in the series.
I was hoping for it to make a big change, like between the first and second book, but it didn’t.
I was hoping the ending would salvage it and bring my rating up to three stars at least, but it was fairly lackluster.
I’m still planning on reading Green: The Beginning and the End, because I like the series as a whole well enough, but I’m not looking forward to it very much.
While Thomas and Monique's lives are important, it's just stupid to suggest that the characters would not write 'they found an antivirus and saved the world' or any other arbitrary sentence that could end the global crisis.(2) On a related issue, for that matter, the words of the mysterious Billy that caused the entire saga to occur don't follow Dekker's rules that the blank books only change history within the histories.
Wow Took me a long time with school and such BUT THAT ENDING AHHHHH LIKE WHAT SO WOW WOW WOW I DONT EVEN know what to say
It's rather dissapointing when you invest enough of yourself into a story to read more than one installment, just to find out it gets progressively worse. You get a really bad feeling that's too close to "I lost my time" to feel confortable. I'm not going to make this long, there's no need to even try. Summary? It started off well, then lost it. Maybe it was the actual writing, or maybe I just didn't feel the "magic" anymore.
The epic trilogy (of sorts) comes to a conclusion (well, sort of)...
I'll have a magic/holy blank book wherein he can write himself back to life from the other world!"  (hide spoiler)]Huh?
And once (view spoiler)[that magic/holy blank book  (hide spoiler)] served that one purpose, I think the author realized he just created a device that could resolve ANY plot conflict, so he had to dispose of it, ASAP!
(hide spoiler)]And the hero's KIDS!
Characters flip flop political affiliations, relationships - good to bad, hate for love, vice versa, many times; all with no connection to real feelings or motivations, but rather just to serve the needs of the plot.
This one is (in my opinion)better than the second in the series and I give it a good solid "not bad".
A lot of things in the book simply annoyed me.
C.S.Lewis was accused (by among others J.R.R.Tolkien) of being heavy handed in his use of biblical symbols and you'll find I rate most of his books 5 stars.
I wanted to like these books but in so many ways they just aren't done well.
Maybe try book 1 and see how you like the author's voice and style.
A Great Finale to a Fantastic Trilogy...,Dekker really finishes off the Circle Trilogy with style.This book was by far the best of the 3 and, although you really must read the first 2 to truly understand this book, Dekker does not dissapoint with the conclusion to this very long trilogy.The story, including the metaphors of Christ's sacrifice for mankind, is brought home and shows the truly great talent that Dekker has for writing.In this final installment, we are shown how the virus from this world is destroyed due to the sacrifice of one man.I cannot really say much more except that this trilogy is fascinating, truly enthralling and worth every minute that you spend reading it.
[Reads final page. Blinks. Reads final page again. Rushes over and yanks copy of Showdown out of bookshelf to verify statements on final page.]THAT'S how Thomas ended up in the black forest??? But...but...I don't even...O_OThis whole series is a time paradox. I love it.
2 of 2 people found the following review helpful:5.0 out of 5 stars If you hated the ending you missed the point., April 21, 2006Everyone is entitled to their own opinion about a book. What grabs one leaves another flat. But those who chided Dekker for weak storylines in this third book of his trilogy missed the point.In fairness let me say that I felt the same way at first. In White it seemed like the things going on in "our" world ended in a very anti-climactic way. Thomas Hunter's blood save
2 of 2 people found the following review helpful:5.0 out of 5 stars If you hated the ending you missed the point., April 21, 2006Everyone is entitled to their own opinion about a book.
But those who chided Dekker for weak storylines in this third book of his trilogy missed the point.In fairness let me say that I felt the same way at first.
Then the action heads back to the "Other" reality.That is the point!
The spiritual reality - the one lost to most of us is the one that really matters.
Reseña de toda la serie en españolNo, I'm not crying, my eyes are sweating...
"He was riding into insanity to fetch a woman who - despite his misguided assumptions - did not love him.
And Susan was enabling him because she knew that once Thomas of Hunter put his mind to something, he always saw it through.
That, and the romance in her own spirit, was cheering him on.
All fine and good, but what if he didn't come back?
'Am I doing the right thing?'  'Do you love her?' 'Yes.' 'Then go get her Thomas of Hunter - we've said all there is to say.'He smiled, and nodded, 'Elyon's strength.''Elyon's strength!' "[Ted Dekker - WHITE: THE GREAT PURSUIT]
This book was more of a romance than the others, but it was very intriguing and creative.
Wow. Just wow.
I like to pretend I'm better than books such as White, but after reading the entire trilogy, I can say that Dekker's writing style both surprised and pleased me.I'm not sure if White was better written than Black and Red or if I simply got used to Dekker's once annoying prose and fragmented style.
Either way, it seemed as though White was less fragmented than the previous books and the prose seemed to be more about the love story than the Christian message that is so prominently featured in the plot of these books.The dialogue has improved as the series progressed and the ending was necessary though cliched.
A Great Finale to a Fantastic Trilogy...,Dekker really finishes off the Circle Trilogy with style.This book was by far the best of the 3 and, although you really must read the first 2 to truly understand this book, Dekker does not dissapoint with the conclusion to this very long trilogy.The story, including the metaphors of Christ's sacrifice for mankind, is brought home and shows the truly great talent that Dekker has for writing.In this final installment, we are shown how the virus from this world is destroyed due to the sacrifice of one man.I cannot really say much more except that this trilogy is fascinating, truly enthralling and worth every minute that you spend reading it.
Çeviri hataları çok. Bir örnek: 40. bölüm "Uzi'yi, bir de üç dergiyi çekip aldı." Doğrusu, "Uzi'yi, bir de üç mermiyi çekip aldı." olacak. Orijinalinde geçen magazine kelimesinin hem dergi hem de mermi anlamı olsa da burada mermi anlamında kullanılmış.
*cries* This was the best of the whole trilogy. Justin's utter love being Elyon, Thomas' pursuit of Chelise. I'm so in love, so I'm love. *cries again*
Wow! This final installment is incredible. Thomas faces challenges in both realities. In today's world he races to save the world from the Raison strain and ends up giving his life. In the future reality he learns more about the Great Romance as he fights to save his beloved from the Horde.
I am always in awe of an author that can create a story, a world of such magnitude as this.
But to create two!?
The action, the adventure, love story enveloping these two worlds?
I am truly left speechless.Ted Dekker is a master at creating a world of true good vs.
As a reader you are drawn into these two worlds and totally enveloped by the light and the dark.
Truly intoxicating!Yes. This is an action packed thrill ride.
Yes. This is a story for those who truly believe in God and his everlasting love.
Keeps you hooked from the moment you pick it up.Publisher's SummaryIn this final installment of Ted Dekker's groundbreaking Circle Trilogy, Thomas Hunter has only days to survive two separate realms of danger, deceit, and destruction.
In the other, a forbidden love could forever destroy the ragtag resistance known as The Circle.Thomas can bridge both worlds, but he is quickly realizing that he may be able to save neither.In the surprising conclusion of the Circle trilogy, Thomas must find a way to rewrite history as he navigates a whirlwind of emotions and events surrounding a pending apocalypse.Life.
Yet all will forever be transformed by the decisions of one man in the final hours of the Great Pursuit.
After investing over 1,000 pages in these three books of the original trilogy, I am happy to have spent hours reading of the Great Romance.
I struggled with the first book (Black) because to me it felt too overdone with romance.
Since the release of the trilogy, Ted Dekker published, Green, a novel that dives into a deeper understanding of the world Thomas Hunter discovers at the beginning of book one.
Aside from the new book outside of the trilogy, Dekker has released countless more books that broaden this whole world that he has created.
I have every intention of reading those in the future.
Book three of the Circle Trilogy finds Thomas still caught between two worlds.
In the other world a forbidden love threatens to destroy everything Thomas has worked so hard to keep safe.
Thomas can bridge both worlds but may not be able to save wither.
The fate of both worlds comes down to the choice of one man.
Dekker has three more books coming in line with series.
There are other books that Dekker writes that refer to things in this trilogy.
I highly recommend Dekker's work for anyone who likes to read some twisted far fetched story lines.
In this mind-bending adventure, Thomas Hunter must find a way to rewrite the history that will affect the fate of two realities. He navigates a whirlwind of emotions and events surrounding the pending apocalypse.  The Fate of these worlds come down to one man's choice. Life, Death, Love, nothing is as it seems. All will be transformed by Thomas's decision in the final hours of the great pursuit. I am just blown away by this series. I just love complex, intricate, thought provoking plots and Dekk
In this mind-bending adventure, Thomas Hunter must find a way to rewrite the history that will affect the fate of two realities.
The Fate of these worlds come down to one man's choice.
Life, Death, Love, nothing is as it seems.
All will be transformed by Thomas's decision in the final hours of the great pursuit.
I am just blown away by this series.
I just love complex, intricate, thought provoking plots and Dekker delivers.
I am sad that I have finished the series but I am so amazed with the story.
Not only does the story pull you in but it begs for interpretation.
Review coming soon..... stay tuned!!Update: Yeah bitches!! I finished the Circle series, and I'm damn proud of myself for having done so. White: The Great Pursuit picks up where Red: The Heroic Rescue left off. I had read some other unrelated books in between, but once you read Ted Dekker, you don't forget where you were when you begin the next book. I enjoyed the fast pace of the series and the unpredictability of events leading up to the closure. Very good ending as Thomas of Hunter comes full-circle!
Esperaba mucho más.
Un final mejor, no tan milagrosamente raro.
La saga logró atraparme a pesar de su clara tendencia religiosa y mis prejuicios debido a esto, y me entretuve bastante, pero en cada libro el final lograba convertirse en una suerte de sistema evangelizador y la tercera y ultima entrega no está lejos de sus predecesores, siendo incluso menos sutil al momento de abordar los temas biblicos...Y el final, pensé que sería espectacular y no lo fue :(Lo pasé bastante bien con la saga, pero no la volvería a leer nunca más en mi vida.
Solo una vez es suficiente.
This review is being written four years after the fact.
My father recommended this series, otherwise I would never have picked it up.
I enjoyed it at the time, though a lot of stuff bugged me; namely, that the "real world" plot was pretty unbelievable, and the "alternate world" plot got fairly heavy-handed with Christian allegory.That said, four years later, a lot of the imagery from this series has stuck with me.
I have a feeling that if I reread it today, it would disappoint; but I can see myself recommending it to my kids when they reach their teens.
The conclusion to the circle trilogy does a decent job at ending this wonderful adventure.
The series as a whole is much better than this final volume which seemed to stall from time to time.
It also left a few too many unanswered questions and took too many liberties to truly be great.
As a trilogy Dekker has created a beautiful story that is filled with symbolism, faith, and religion.
This in no ordinary tale of good versus evil.
I would give the trilogy 4 to 4.5 stars as a whole tale rather than the sum of it's parts.
White is the last in the Circle series (not sure how Green, which came along years later, plays into the series - the story is done).
I really enjoyed every one of these books (Black, Red, White).
I felt this was the weakest of the 3, but it was still good!In an earlier review I said these books were a combination of sci fi and fantasy.
After reading the authors notes at the end of this book, he calls them a mix of fantasy and thriller.
If you enjoy famtsy, try this series (Starting with Black).
So I loved the first two but this last one was way too over the top with the Christian metaphors that weren't so metaphorical. My fault...I should have read some reviews before committing to the trilogy. Just unprepared. All in all, entertaining with good character development. Like his writing style, but I do dislike someone who makes the assumption that I haven't read the previous books and need to be "reminded" of the plot line. Not as bad as Goodkind or anything. But these books were all released in the same YEAR for goodness sake.
