https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60213.Peace
Although the first few pages of Peace are some of the best in the novel, there's a scene that takes place in a garden near the beginning of the book that can be a doozy.
Don't sweat it - this scene is designed to make more sense the second time you read it.
Whenever Weer, or someone in one of Weer's flashbacks, tells a fairy tale, you should be paying attention.
Neil enjoyed his second reading of Peace much more than his first, so if you feel as if you understood most of the novel after a single reading, congratulations: you are smarter than Neil Gaiman.
Peace comprises, ostensibly, the memoirs of Alden Dennis Weer, a Midwestern man aged and alone and set to wandering the labyrinthine halls and chambers of his manse—quarters partially of this earth, partially of the shrouded and misdirecting dimensions of his lived-in memory.
When you peel away the surface layers of what Wolfe has so gorgeously written; recollect quick, brief phrases from fifty pages back; note how often two and two are not approaching within a misplaced pocketknife—perhaps even a slipped porcelain egg—of four; that is, when you endeavor to puzzle together what Alden Dennis Weer has striven so valiantly to veil—though offering up the very means by which such occlusions be rent—you'll perhaps come to perceive there's very little in the way of peace to be found.
Wolfe remains my favorite author, and Peace I think is an excellent introduction to his work, especially if you’re not coming from a science fiction or fantasy background.On the first level, Peace is the beautifully written memoir of Alden Dennis Weer and a paean to life in a Midwestern town from a childhood among horses and coaches to old age among factories.
On this level, the novel is a tale about childhood and old age and all the memory and loss that goes with both and in many ways reminds me of “Forlesen,” one of my favorite Wolfe short stories.On a third level, Peace is about storytelling.
Alden Dennis Weir loses his knife and goes looking through his house for it. And sort of gets lost in some of the best prose of the late twentieth century. Everybody should read this book.
Subtle subtle subtle.Some images I'll never shake out of my head.This is the sort of book where...You read a chapter,you're like Huh interesting,you go to bed,then you sit bolt upright in bed and go No way!! He didn't! Did he???But he did.

Wolfe's story structure goes like this: you have to read the book, and then you have to read the book at least one more time.
Treat all Wolfe narrators as criminals writing a confession for the cops, and you've probably got the right idea.I realized with this book that Gene Wolfe is kind of like the character Dworkin from Zelazny's Amber books: the apparently mad wizard who created the Primal Pattern.
The ending trailed off like smoke, but the story was still carrying itself out in my head, so that was all right.
I decided to give him another chance.Here is evidence that Gene Wolfe actually deserves a degree of the praise heaped upon him:"And as if by magic—and it may have been magic, for I believe America is the land of magic, and that we, we now past Americans, were once the magical people of it, waiting now to stand to some unguessable generation of the future as the nameless pre-Myceneaen tribes did to the Greeks, ready, at a word, each of us now, to flit piping through groves ungrown, our women ready to haunt as lamiae the rose-red ruins of Chicago and Indianapolis when they are little more than earthen mounds, when the heads of the trees are higher than the hundred-and-twenty-fifth floor—it seemed to me that I found myself in bed again, the old house swaying in silence as though it were moored to the universe by only the thread of smoke from the stove."Peace is a pretty short book, but it's full of sentences like that.
There are many stories within the main text, relayed either by the protagonist or one of his friends or family that give clues and hints to how you should makes sense of the book.
Trying to make sense of this book was like trying to solve a cryptic crossword.
I don't think I was able to give it the effort it required to piece all the clues together.
On the surface this isn't a particularly interesting story although it is written in beautiful prose that makes it a pleasure to read.No, I wouldn't call this fantasy.
It amazes me that Gene Wolfe isn't better appreciated when is is so obviously one of the greatest writers of the last 50 years.
Wolfe's writing is so compressed and literary that it can be quite hard to read, and there are passages of this novel that I had to read two or three times.
I feel sorry for Wolfe in that he hasn't been adopted by science fiction and fantasy readers because he is too literary and he hasn't been adapted by literary fiction readers because they assume that fantasy and science fiction aren't serious writing.
Although virtually unclassifiable, Gene Wolfe's 1975 novel, "Peace," was chosen for inclusion in both David Pringle's "Modern Fantasy: The Hundred Best Novels" AND Jones & Newman's "Horror: Another 100 Best Books." While the novel certainly does have shadings of both the horrific and the fantastic, it will most likely strike the casual reader--on the surface, at least--as more of an autobiography, telling, as it does, the story of Alden Dennis Weer, in the first person.
I've read it three times in less than two months and I still haven't figured it all out yet, but I'm having a lot of fun searching.I talked to Gene Wolfe last year and one of the things I asked him was whether he ever left anything deliberately ambiguous in his books or anything that was left to subjective speculation.
I'm not implying that lycanthropy is involved in Peace, but someone else pointed out that much of Alden Weer's life parallels Wolfe's, which makes him a sort of "Weer" "Wolfe", a fairly multi-leveled pun and also a hint that some of the more unsavory aspects of his life are hidden and that he has a secret, more violent nature.Time for read through number four...
SIX STARS. MAYBE SEVEN.That this is the first novel I ever read twice in a row should tell you everything. Well, this is Gene Wolfe, so not everything, but lots. Full reaction over at my blog.
Here the narrative bounces between an odd visit to the doctor (where Weer tells the doctor to prescribe treatment for a stroke he will have in 15 years), to boyhood memories of his role in the accidental death of a fellow boy, to impressions of his mother, aunt, and friends, to stories (including a whopper of a ghost story) his parent's cook Hannah told to him as a boy, to a Christmas trip he took with his mother to his maternal grandfather's house in the country.All of it is well told and simple enough, if not a little too loosely connected.
Gene Wolfe's 1975 novel Peace seems to be the scattered recollections of Alden Dennis Weer, an old man who has lived all his life in a a small Midwestern town.
Wolfe has created an intricate narrative that offers something new every time you read it.
I must have read Peace six or seven times over the last 13 years, and on my last re-reading I still discovered new aspects to Weer's story.
I feel like my encounter with these melancholy memoirs of Alden Dennis Weer has been lifechanging.
After reading this novel and The Sorcerer's House, it seems that is just Wolfe's style; to write a novel so complex, with so many layers, it can't possibly all be ingested in one go.Even so, my first pass through this meandering tale full of stories within stories was such a great and memorable experience.
I shall throw it onto the re-read pile.I'm not going to give plot or interpretation here but I would like to say that Alden Dennis Weer leaves out a lot when recounting events.
These interpretations were pretty interesting:http://ofblog.blogspot.com/2007/12/ge...Next Wolfe: The Island of Dr. Death and Other Stories and Other Stories
The failures of life seem to outweigh the moments of triumph, and for Wolfe’s main character of this most extraordinary of novels, the failures and, more importantly, the sins, of Weer haunt him (sometimes literally).
Yet for those readers who are paying close attention, Peace transforms itself from a seemingly charming (if not entirely heart-breaking) memoir into a hellish horror novel with incredibly poignant and acute moral and spiritual sensibilities.
For Weer and Wolfe, the attempt to escape death, to run from your sins and deny the reality of death, is the core of the human conflict.
"Great kid, don't get cocky."This was my second thought after finishing "Peace." My first was "I need to read it again." I needed to read it again because it was clear that my theory as to what was going on (because one MUST have a theory with a Wolfe book because nothing is ever as it seems), turned out to be only about 30% right.
I've a fair number of Wolfe's novels.
I got this.Then Wolfe comes with the Peace-hammer and says: "WRONG MOTHERFUCKER!
But Gene Wolfe is such a great writer that, after a few pages to get acclimated to these shifts, not only does it become easy to follow, but the seemingly-unrelated stories end up tying back to each other in often unexpected ways.And yet, as Weer weaves his stories, something sinister begins to take shape underneath the main narrative, hinting at some horrific secret underlying Weer's tale.
And then, once that final page has turned...The book just kind of ends.
Wolfe is a man whose work demands to be read very closely and carefully, and this book might be Exhibit A.
A new favorite. Shit, do I love Gene Wolfe. Full review http://www.tor.com/2015/10/20/the-mys....Update 2017: Yeah, I read it again.
On the surface 'Peace' comes across as a story about memories, and in this particular case, Alden Dennis Weer's, an elderly man and victim of a stroke.
After reading these interpretations of the stories within the main story, I think I have come to understand the novel a little better in how it all fits together but I think another read of the novel might help even more so.So, overall a good read, something rather different and unlike the name of the book implies, the life of Alden Dennis Weer is anything but peaceful...
Here the setting is more tethered to reality, although not without some supernatural aspects, as the stories contained herein are mostly ghost stories (in fact, once you work it out, in a way everything is a ghost story).Like any Gene Wolfe there is hidden depth here, as if you pay attention to characters and dates you can piece together a timeline that reveals more of what is going on than is ever explicitly stated.
Wolfe is the master at writing books that have extra depths to explore if you so choose, but which don't have to be delved into to have a good reading experience.
Beautifully written, confusing, well worth reading, but read it with a peaceful mind, because you need to be alert while reading to understand what's happening. Dwell in every situation described, and you will find it beautiful as well and very well written.
Thank you Kris, for this gift.
One of my favourite authors, and this novel (his first!) did not disappoint.
In a Gene Wolfe book, there always seems to be a puzzle element to plot, narrative structure, and even the characters themselves, and this novel was no exception.
It essentially is a complex character study steeped in magical-realism that rewards the attentive and patient reader and begs to be re-read immediately, given that certain details and incidents are presented in the first few pages that are only fully realized at the story's conclusion.
But don't read it if you are tired or distracted!
The more I read of this book, the less I felt I understood.
I started off confident that I knew what this was all about, but this confidence dwindled away as I progressed, until by the last page I wondered what I'd just read.
I can understand why it is recommended that you read this more than once.
I think this has to be some of the best writing I've come across, (though I sometimes lost the thread of the ridiculously long sentences), with writing so rich that I had to stop frequently to absorb it properly.
Dark, intricate, disturbing. A first person narrative that leaps around in time and space like a circus performer, leaving the reader wondering exactly what really happened, and what Alden Weeks really did with his life. Is he actually seeing the future, reminiscing about the past, or inventing some or all of his tale out of whole cloth? How is he navigating his impossible house? well worth a second and third read, though it won't help with the central question.
Kiedy się zaczyna, to jakby się wciągało sanki na szczyt góry. Wchuj wysokiej góry. A potem już jest ostra jazda i tylko co jakiś czas się obrywa gałęzią po łbie. Polecam. Książkę. Ale sanki też.
One boy has a cap, which we throw into the blackberries."It isn't nice to throw a guest's cap into the blackberries, but worse is to come at this party..In the afterword to Peace, Neil Gaiman tells the reader that, as a teenager when he first read the book, he was puzzled by the Gahan Wilson artwork: "a white title on a white cover, the word 'Peace' hiding ghosts and skeletons and monsters...
The older Gaiman rereads Peace and learns that Alden Weer may meander, but he is neither sweet nor gentle and Gahan Wilson knew what he was doing after all.As Gaiman says, "If you are reading a book by Gene Wolfe, trust the author, and do not, for a moment, trust the author."
It is the story of a life in the American Midwest in the early years of the twentieth century, which is a strange setting for such a novel; the narrator's life is not in itself fantastic - it is purely the way in which the story is told which places it in the genre.For the narrator is a ghost.
He is revisiting his life as part of a visit to a doctor, when given an odd treatment which is a sort of combination of the Rorschach test with fortune telling by the use of the Tarot; each episode in the novel is set off with the turn of a card.
I won't spoil for you the experience of reading this wonderful book, but suffice to stay what starts out as a seemingly innocuous, even irrelevant, series of reminiscences by an ordinary man soon begins to turn into something extraordinary, a chilling and eerie biography with a twist.Then there are the stories within the story - always a Wolfe strongpoint but he really goes to town here.
They tell you so much about the narrator that he doesn't tell you himself.And then there is the sheer quality of the prose, with it's oblique yet elegant imagery and a wide variety of narrative voices.
