https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33375622-her-body-and-other-parties
This is a difficult review to write because I have a lot of mixed feelings.Her Body and Other Parties is like most short story collections I have read in that some of the stories worked for me far more than others.
It is sometimes very strange how sex and coming are the most important things in scenes where it seems like far more important things are happening.
It made it especially difficult to read through "Inventory", which is little more than a repetitive listing of unsexy sex throughout a woman's life.My personal thoughts about the direction of feminist lit aside, I thought Her Body and Other Parties was pretty mixed overall.
The stories in Carmen Maria Machado’s Her Body and Other Parties vibrate with originality, queerness, sensuality and the strange. Her voracious imagination and extraordinary voice beautifully bind these stories about fading women and the end of the world and men who want more when they’ve been given everything and bodies, so many human bodies taking up space and straining the seams of skin in impossible, imperfect, unforgettable ways.
2.5 starsCarmen Maria Machado's Her Body and Other Parties is a collection I was so excited to read I dragged a friend in to read it with me.
And by "more" I don't mean argumentative or domineering in tone; some of my favorite short stories ever crept up on me with a gentle breeze at my neck only to bowl me over in the end with words just as gentle.
In fact, what I remember most about this collection is my buddy reader's and my disappointed-mounting-to-annoyed reaction as each story was read and discussed.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.If you think of works of fiction like works of art, Carmen Maria Machado's debut story collection,  Her Body and Other Parties , is an abstract painting. It's undoubtedly gorgeous and attention-getting, there's no one right way to interpret the things you see (or read), everyone will see something different in it, and each time you look, you'll catch something you didn't see the first time. You may also find yourself wondering, "What did that mean?"Seven of the eight stor
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.If you think of works of fiction like works of art, Carmen Maria Machado's debut story collection, 
You may also find yourself wondering, "What did that mean?"Seven of the eight stories in this collection are a mesmerizing combination of atmosphere, sexuality, emotion, and gorgeous, gorgeous storytelling.
This collection of short stories heavily emphasizes the violence that we put on women’s bodies.
Carmen Maria Machado is beyond words talented, and I feel so very blessed to even have been able to read this.
I just didn’t think it was as hard hitting as some of the others in the collection.Also, if you enjoyed this short story, please check out The Book of the Unnamed Midwife by Meg Elison!
Again, this is going to really be hard for a lot of people to read, but it’s also going to hit home for so many readers that need stories like this.
‘’What magical thing could you want so badly they take you away from the known world for wanting it?’’ This book is one of those cases when you feel someone calling your name. From the enticing cover to the cryptic tale. Naturally, this being a short story collection falling into Literary Fiction, Magical Realism and Gender Studies, finding itself in my hands was unavoidable. This proved to be a very special, extreme adventure.Machado writes with bravery, clarity, and confidence, centering her
This proved to be a very special, extreme adventure.Machado writes with bravery, clarity, and confidence, centering her stories on sexuality and beauty from the perspective of women who do not follow the flow or adjust to society’s demands and conformities.
In frank, open, haunting writing, she stresses how the body becomes a projection of the way women have been viewed- and are still viewed- in our societies.
This is a story of the complex relationship between us and our bodies which become even more perplexing as we grow up.
This is such a beautiful, tragic tale with a beautiful relationship at its heart and haunting descriptions of the misty women.
I really need to fall back to sleep ...but I couldn’t stop reading these stories so before I drift off..I’ll just say a few things...ITS NOT FOR THE TIMID....I had read two of the stories yesterday and couldn’t stop talking to Paul about them on our hike yesterday.
These are literary - kinda brilliant- short stories-which a classroom discussion could enhance.
and a few I liked more than others Paul and I discussed the symbolism of a green ribbon - We talked about a story ‘Inventory’ ....
sex partners....The last story - ( I knew it was from rape) - but it’s not graphic.....
The author has taken every episode of SVU, the show that focuses on sex crimes, usually against women, and builds an alternative story where women have bell eyes and something supernatural is going on and I just didn't really get it at all.
And since it was in audio, I couldn't tell if this was a series of very short stories (flash stories) or what I was encountering, because the author keeps the title of each episode and then has a paragraph or a sentence after each.
For those like me who've never read Machado's fiction, this piece easily made me want to read more beguiling tales of women on the edge of reason."Inventory" is one woman's diary of her sexual partners.
This is one of those pieces you discuss at book club, with everyone taking a turn describing what they think they read and together, you figure out what happened.
Apparently, Machado is a big time SVU fan and might have been compelled to write what she knows, but this is one most obnoxious things I've ever read in a book.
Winner of the John Leonard Prize in 2017.Very well written erotic adventures of a lesbian. Way out there.4 out of 5 stars
I was really looking forward to this book, ever since I saw a review by Roxane Gay for this; then when I read and loved one of these short stories earlier this year I was even more excited - and I was not disappointed in the least.
As is usually the case I adored some stories more than others but overall this was a very strong collection and I can absolutely understand the praise it has garnered (it has been blurbed by Roxane Gay and Jeff VanderMeer among others).
A crazy sometimes conflicting collection of fabulist tales.
When this collection works, on tales of women with ribbons on their bodies, sexual encounters during a world ending epidemic, women literally vanishing in their skin and people who can hear the inner thoughts of adult film stars when they are watching porn, it is amazing.
But occasionally like with a twist on an America hit series and all it’s nine seasons of episodes or a tale of mothers that gets too other, it lost me a touch.
It’s a crazy, creepy, queer, quirky, fantastical, fabulist, sinister and sexual collection, read it.
*long keening noise only uttered in the shadow of a perfect book*
In her debut collection of short stories, Carmen Maria Machado mingles fabulism, body horror, erotica and feminist commentary.
It starts with the narrator cataloguing everyone she's slept with, taking on that now-near-compulsory clinical tone, that Muumuu House type of thing of talking endlessly about sex but doing so in an affectless style that doesn't communicate any passion or joy or pleasure.
The stories are well-crafted and (when they don't feel workshopped to death) spark with strong ideas and entertaining metafictional touches, but Her Body and Other Parties didn't work for me the way I hoped it would.If you enjoyed this I'd recommend the following (all short story collections):
“I choose this life,” the prostitute says to the social worker. “I do. Please put your energy into helping girls who aren’t here by choice.” She is so right. She is murdered anyway. Strange, visceral, but altogether, just too confusing for me.I would recommend this to those who loved the metaphorical side of Roxane Gay’s Difficult Women. (Before you ask, I was not one of those people.) Because these stories... well, you’re not going to enjoy them unless you get them, at least partially. And to
Strange, visceral, but altogether, just too confusing for me.I would recommend this to those who loved the metaphorical side of Roxane Gay’s Difficult Women.
I feel like some asshole on twitter is going to find this book and decide to call everyone who didn’t get this a typical straight feminist or whatever, so to clarify: I’m a huge lesbian and the women kissing were not the confusing part.
There were a few metaphors here I only understood on the second and third reads due to sheer exhaustion, which is really upsetting - I feel like this would be my fave story ever otherwise.
The obscure ending also had me lost in thought for some time, pondering over the many allegories this short tale held inside of itself.Inventory - 5/5 stars - This begun as a catalogue, of sorts, that detailed all of the protagonist’s sexual encounters.
I have never watched an episode of Law and Order and couldn’t seem to grasp the purpose for this collection of 272 thoughts on it.Real Women Have Bodies - 4/5 stars - I love the title of this short tale but its content put an entirely unique spin on what I presumed the slogan to mean.
Actual rating: 3.5 Individual ratings:The Husband Stitch - 5 (by far my favorite in the collection)Inventory - 4.5Mothers - 3Especially Heinous - 2Real Women Have Bodies - 3.5Eight Bites - 4The Resident - 3Difficult at Parties - 4
Almost all of the stories contain some element of fantasy or science fiction, such as women whose bodies disappear or a world that comes to an end because of a terrifying disease.
My favorite stories included "Eight Bites," which follows a woman who gets gastric bypass surgery and examines body image and self-esteem and how others influence our relationship with food, "The Husband Stitch," which interrogates male entitlement to women's bodies, and "Real Women Have Bodies," which explores a world in which women's bodies disappear and draws parallels to how society treats women and their bodies now.Overall, a genre-bending collection of stories that gives much-needed space to the narratives of queer women.
These stories are imaginative, original, and intriguing in ways that far exceed the typical literary output of Iowa graduates.That being said, the actual storytelling is a mixed bag ranging from flawless to awkward.
This is probably why the stories are all hard to categorize.
Her characters also seem to all be manifestations of an "author" persona, or narrator voice, rather than real people.Here's how I rated each story individually:The Husband Stitch - 5/5 - AMAZING.
Probably more amusing for fans of the show.Real Women Have Bodies - 4/5 Eight Bites - 4/5The Resident - 2/5Difficult at Parties - 2/5
I have heard all of the stories about girls like me, and I am unafraid to make more of them. This anthology isn't so much a collection of stories as it is a collection of experiences. Carmen Maria Machado writes beautifully; her voice is so incredibly unique, and no matter the content of the tale, she transports you right into the scene - for better or for worse. I'll do my best to give you my thoughts on each story, but at the end of the day, this is the sort of collection that I highly recomm
★★★★☆ ←This was another tough one to rate, because it felt so incredibly personal; I literally, at multiple times, thought, "Am I reading an autobiography?" It tells the story of a writer who goes to a writer's retreat in an area where she once had a childhood "incident" with her Girl Scouts group, but we are left guessing as to what the incident was for most of the tale.
This is a bizarre, tough read, but it's important, and like every other story in this collection, it painted a scene that served as a reminder of just how brutal life can be for women in this world.→ 
Her Body and Other Parties is a riveting 8-story collection that is a gritty, provocative debut.
It’s a fusion of magical realism, horror, supernatural and fantasy that focuses on women’s lives and their bodies.
In general, I am not fond of short story collections, but this is outstanding work.
It’s an original and electric collection of stories that I thoroughly enjoyed regardless of how disturbing some were because Machado’s storytelling is powerful, innovative, and like an otherworldly experience.
The Husband Stitch 5 stars, A tale of tales, spinning old folk stories throughout one important one.
I couldn't tell if a new story had started or if the same one was still going!Real Women Have Bodies 4 stars, I don't know how Carmen Maria Machado comes up with these incredible ideas!
The idea of just slowly fading away and not having control over your body, is terrifying.Eight Bites 3 stars, I think that deciding to modify your body in anyway is an extremely difficult and personal decision.
Difficult At Parties 5 stars, Don't we all want to know what everyone else is thinking?
After all, stories can sense happiness and snuff it out like a candle.And she includes some suggested effects for reading the story which starts relatively conventionally, albeit with implicit social commentary:(If you read this story out loud, please use the following voices:Me: as a child, high-pitched, forgettable; as a woman, the same.The boy who will grow into a man, and be my spouse: robust with his own good fortune.)and become increasingly bizarre:(If you are reading this story out loud, force a listener to reveal a secret, then open the nearest window to the street and scream it as loudly as you are able.)Unfortunately the collection is a little marred by the longest piece Especially Heinous: 272 Views of Law & Order: SUV which I would suggest skipping entirely.It consists of 272 entries of precis for a trashy TV homicide series, for example the first:“Payback”: Stabler and Benson investigate the murder and castration of a New York City cab driver.
Novels generally appeal to me rather than a short story collection and anything labelled fabulist or absurdist has me wary.
Machado's writing is electric, unapologetically weird and visceral while also feeling on point with the current #MeToo zeitegist.This is essentially a collection of contemporary fairy tales, the same sense of creepy, inexplicable horror that I get from reading Grimm's stories also seeps out from these pages.
I loved the experience, though I doubt it is a collection for everyone.Three stories in particular lodged in my brain.
I am really quite taken with this author and her short story collection.
What bothered me a little about this collection could well be a matter of personal taste: There are parts of some stories and even a whole story ("Mothers") that are so open to interpretation that the result is a breakdown of communication between Machado and me.
Or to put it differently: I am assuming that an author tries to communicate something to his or her readers, and even though I have no problem with this message being ambiguous (in fact, I want my books to be challenging), I don't enjoy texts that are so open to interpretation that one might find 20 potential meanings - I tend to get bored with symbols and allusions that are so rich that they are borderline random.
'This is not really a case,' Benson says, exasperated."I'm sorry, that gif is just going to be there blinking until you scroll past it or something, but it was also blinking in my head during the centerpiece of this short story collection, which is called "Especially Heinous" and told entirely through capsule descriptions of episodes of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit.
The Husband Stitch: 5 Stars this was my favorite of the book so far and a really impactful and hard-hitting start to this series of short stories.
Real Women Have Bodies: 5 Stars- holy crap!
Eight Bites: 5 Stars- Oh man, this was heartbreaking and horrible to read.
The heartbreak of a daughter wondering if her body is wrong because her mother didn't like her own is so raw, so real.
The Resident: 2 stars- meh, this one didn't connect with me and was pretty forgettable.
This collection started and ended really strong and left me with a lot to think about.
3.5 StarsThis book contains several feminist short stories.
The Husbands Stitch - 4 Stars This is a short story about how men feel they have a right to women’s bodies.
Inventory - 3 Stars This short story is about a woman’s sexual encounters during her life that is based on a post apocalyptic setting.
Real Women Have Bodies - 3.5 Stars This short story is based on a world where women fade.
Eight Bites - 4 Stars This short story is about a woman’s relationship with her body and food.
The Resident - 2.5 StarsThis short story is about an artist who is residing in the mountains.
Carmen Maria Machado's debut short story collection, Her Body and Other Parties, has marked her out as an effervescent talent in fermentation.Her gorgeously lubricious, fantastically deranged, genre-twisting stories explore women's bodies and the physical violence all too frequently visited upon them.
Her narratives are strewn with surreal situations masquerading as humdrum lives, and many of her characters are propelled into states of half lunacy by their circumstances.Machado's feminal leitmotifs progress from tales of bariatric surgery and outbreaks of a fading disease to a woman's terrifying struggle to keep her sanity in the wake of a brutal attack.
Reading these stories confirmed for me that I don't like horror stories and I like them even less when they are short stories.
I was the kid around the campfire fire pleading with everyone to stop telling scary stories and couldn't we all just sing kum ba ya?I like back stories, a little explanation and solid endings and some of the things that make books click for me I couldn't find in this collection.
Also, I must admit that there is some beautiful prose here and I was drawn to this writing and she can certainly create atmosphere which you can almost reach out and touch.
