https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34267.Sergei_Prokofiev_s_Peter_and_the_Wolf
Jim Dale does a fine job as narrator of Prokofiev's delightful musical story.
The pop-up scenes in this book blew me away. It will always be a treasured book for me.
All the reviews are combined for this tale, which is unfortunate in light of how many versions there are. I read the mechanical / pop-up version, with scenes done by Barbara Cooney. The tale is famous, of course, and worth reading perhaps for that reason alone; the scenes are beautiful and convincingly Russian. But it's the pop-up aspect of the book that makes it wonderful. Most pop-up books are forgettable and deserve to be destroyed precisely when your toddler gets them alone in a room and destroys them; but this book, if destroyed, would be mourned in our household.
I enjoyed how each character has its own instrument which helps the listener to better imagine the story through the music.
The story is simple, but my 6-year-old listened to it on repeat for several days after we listened to it together.I've often imagined my own stories to go along with classical music pieces.
It's just a shame there aren't more musical pieces with story accompaniments for children.
*Other classical works written for children (not necessarily with words): https://open.spotify.com/user/paisley...
(Spotify playlist)*Children's books paired with musical accompaniments: http://www.letsplaykidsmusic.com/stor...*Storytelling set to classical music (although I wasn't impressed with the one I listened to): http://www.funwithmusic.com/
A reader by the name of Melissa (Books and Things) mentioned this was her first ever audiobook on the Geeky Book Blogger's #LoveAudiobooks Giveaway Week 2: How did you start listening?
new post in honor of June is Audiobook Month.
I'd never listened to this classic fairy tale as an audiobook record/cassette growing up, so I clicked on the YouTube link (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MfM7Y...) with zero expectations.
The Vancouver Symphony Orchestra's music director Bramwell Tovey does double duty as conductor and narrator, and boy does he animate this one fantastically.
I've listened to it twice now and will probably listen to it again someday.
Ellie read at naptime..krb 3/25/16
Title: Peter and the WolfAuthor: Sergei ProkofievIllustrator: Peter MaloneGenre: European folktaleTheme(s): animals, fantasy, natureOpening line/sentence: “Early one morning Peter opened the gate and walked out in the big green meadow.”Brief book summary: Peter leaves the gate open to his house as he walks into the meadow, letting different animals out. In the meadow, he encounters a wolf.Professional Recommendation/Review #1: Name of Source: Kirkus Link: https://www.kirkusreviews.com/book-re...
Short blurb:A new treatment of Prokofiev’s symphonic folktale in which each character is represented by a different orchestral instrument.
It is very easy for books to become repetitive, so the layout of the pages and pictures offered something new for the reader.
Also, large pictures may be a good way to promote discussion between you and the child you are reading this with.Consideration of Instructional Application:	In this book, every animal is represented by an orchestral instrument.
Review 1:School Library Journal“PreS-Gr 3-This musical fantasy about a disobedient boy who leaves the safety of the garden for the unknown world of the meadow, cleverly conquering the danger he encounters, has been a childhood favorite since 1936.
An opening page introduces the characters, naming and depicting the instrument associated with each one.” Review 2:Kirkus Reviews“Here Prokofiev's original ending has been changed and softened so that the duck, which has been swallowed whole by the wolf, escapes.
I was excited when friends recently gave Sebastian this book with included cd of Prokofiev's setting of the story.
Excited because as a young child I had a 45 of the music that I enjoyed listening to often.
Enjoyed, despite being scared of the wolf and the great motif Prokofiev composed to represent the wolf.
My mother reminds me that when listening to it, I would hide behind a chair and peak out.So, it was with nostalgic delight that I sat with Sebastian as we listened to the music and narration and looked together at the pictures in the book.
I just wanted to know what the story was, and hoped a nice picture-book would prove more enlightening than a wikipedia entry. Not so much. I guess I need the music, and probably a teacher too. The pictures in this are appealing, though.I read the hardcover with the Reading Rainbow sticker, same illustration as the Puffin pb: 0140506330
Fantastic audio presentation with Jim Dale narrating! Loved it!
Absolutely gorgeous book! AND it came with the CD with the music, just a wonderful experience all around!
Gorgeous illustrations.
one of the best version of this tale !!!
This is the edition from my childhood. I love it! Unfortunately, the cassette was not with the book, so we had to make do with a different narrator, which lessened the experience somewhat.
3.5 starsNarrated by Jim DaleThis short audiobook was a nice blend of music and storytelling.
The animated short provided a lovely visual of what the story the music was expressing, and it was this short animation that remained in my memory as I listened to this narration of the same story.
I would have liked 3 versions of this story in this audiobook: 1 of just the music, 1 of the narrated story, and 1 combining both as this audiobook was representative of.
In short, I did like this audiobook.
It is a short musical listen for those times when I don't want something heavy, serious or requiring much concentration.
Each animal is introduced one by one, as was done in the original music; a boy venturing out into the woods, a bird, cat, duck, and then a wolf stalking the cat.
Later it introduces the hunters who have been tracking the wolf through the forest.This is a great portrayal of nature and the food chain, one animal hunting another.The music has different instruments for each character, and throughout the book these instruments are illustrated on the pages where those characters appear.
Author: Sergei Prokofiev and Janet SchulmanIllustrator: Peter MaloneFirst Published: 2004A re telling of the classic orchestral piece with intricate illustrations and a quaint story. An appealing old style children's book which beautifully captures the feel of the original.This version is coupled with a recording by the Cincinnati Pops under the direction of Erich Kunzel and narrated by Peter A Thomas.Age:Read aloud - 3+Read yourself - 7+References:Peter Malone's website: http://petermaloneillustration.com/(ISBN 0375824308)-CR-
It forms the soundtrack for this story to introduce children to the different instruments of the orchestra.
The book introduces each character with its own instrument to match their characteristics.
This version of the story is very well illustrated and surrounding each box of text are pictures of the instruments accompanying the story.
These can be used as excellent visual aids for the children to help them picture the orchestra.
By playing the music first and then introducing them to story, children would then be able to recognise each instrument as they are linked with each character.
I love Jim Dale and I absolutely loved this one!!!This is a magical, musical adaptation of the story of "Peter and the Wolf".
I have seen this performed by a symphony at my hometown when I was very young and my mom was trying to get me to love classical music.
It had illustrations on the back and it was narrated too.
She succeeded: I was enchanted by how well every instrument matched every animal.Jim Dale's narration was exceptional, as he can voice characters in a very unique way.Outside it's snowing right now, I made a cup of coffee and listened to this.
One five-year-old belted out, "Now THAT'S what I call good music!" in the middle of it.
The music stirred them up and made the whole experience really gripping.
It was a really, really fun time.I appreciate that there wasn't much violence in this edition, but I found the survival of the duck to be a little over-the-top.
Children can handle the death of a character in a book, and I'd prefer they see a realistic death (an animal eating another) to cartoon violence, where it's not taken seriously.
I'd like to find a better edition to share with children in the future.
There is a large connection between the story of "Peter and the Wolf" and music that I was completely unaware of.While I did not take the time to listen to it, there was a disc that was included with this book.
After reading some other pages in the book, I discoverd that this was originally wrote as music.
Each of the different animals in the book represents a different musical instrument.
After reading the book, I find this very interesting, simply because I cannot see this story being portrayed in any type of musical way.
This is the first book given to me so I could begin learning the German language.
It is a well-known story, which helped with the learning process as my mind helped fill in the blanks where vocabulary failed.
The words are laid out in a manner that attends to the natural emphasis which parents will put on words, like this:'er erreichte sie,erpackte sieundverschlang sie.'This gives the reader time to focus on each verb and realize the dire situation the duck is in.
The illustrations were excellent, and if you are musically inclined, the melodies for each character are included in the back of the book so you can play along as each character speaks.
Here is another illustrated version of Peter and the Wolf. Mikolaycak's paintings are more realistic than Beck's Peter and the Wolf, and they express a brave and dramatic mood very fitting for Prokofiev's wonderful musical creation. They are just a little more frightening than Beck's, but still aren't very scary. Carlson's translation of the piece is quite smooth, but it will fall to an adult to explain which musical instruments are represented by each character. It is, however, more widely available than Beck's version.
Age Range: 3-7Personal reaction:-I like this book because it enhances children to be brave and learn about animals, but I do not like when peter disobeying his grandfather orders to go out. The illustrations and the characters are amazing. I like that the animals’ characters were talking with peter.Purpose:-Read aloud for three years old children.-Children learn how to brave person and help others if they have some problems.Curriculum:-Read aloud. -Discuss ideas about what they can do if they saw someone in trouble. -Talking about what the sequence they will have if they do not follow their parents’ orders.
don't have this one w/ the cd although that would be nice.
bought a copy for W at 1/2 price books the other day.
it's really not that great of a story w/o the music i discovered!
the music is what makes it...
the ending is totally random and leaves you going 'do whut?' but, it's a classic and the little man has got to start on the classics early!
i remember listening to a vinyl of the story as read by William F.
(w/ music of course) i must say a better voice could not be found for this story.
Damn, couldn't the poor little duck have lived? I mean, jeez, the poor duck is just sitting there, alive and quacking, in the wolf's stomach and no one even tried to save him? It's a children's book! Make the wolf spit her back out! Poop her out - something! Poor little duck. :(The story, besides that sad, sad part, was only so-so in my opinion. I have a feeling that listening to the musical tale would be so much better. Maybe I can get that done someday.
This is on my to-buy list. We checked it out at the library in St Louis and listened to the CD as we followed along in the book. I really enjoyed it in the book/CD format better than watching the story on TV. I also just love how the story introduces different parts of the orchestra. A wonderful way to teach children about orchestral instruments and introduce how music is often a story.
This version was translated by Maria Carlson and illustrated by the Charles Mikolaycak. The book is a shortened version of the Peter and the Wolf story, and the wolf gets taken to the zoo by the hunters who were tracking him. These illustrations are good too, though he should stick to people rather than animals, as he seems to capture them better.
I have not read tis since childhood. I always think of the music. I would use this to help the children understand the care of aimals in nature and being brave. The pride the village had in Peter, for doing the right thing. Thiscould be a character builder for all children and a reminder for adults!
