https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27999.Close_Range
The visceral power of the elements and environment runs through all the stories, and the use of dialect and slightly clipped sentences is another similarity.The Half-Skinned SteerThis is an old man's road trip to his brother's funeral, prompting reminiscence.
For example, a radio announcer "who pronounced his own name as though he had discovered a diamond in his nostril": what on earth does that mean, and why does it work?Wyoming NamesMen in Wyoming often have strange names, apparently, including (but not limited to): Ideal, Pet, Bliss, Diamond, Pearl, Mero, Rasmussen, Shy, Aladdin (though there was at least a reason for that), Car, Train, Pleasant, Elk, Zeeks and Fount!Quotes (mainly about the Wyoming landscape)* "The full moon rose, an absurd visage balanced in his rear-view mirror, above it curled a wig of cloud, filamented edges like platinum hairs."* "The country poured open on each side...
Judge for yourself:"The Half-Skinned Steer" (which first appeared in The Atlantic Monthly, in November of 1997), starts with this sentence: ‘In the long unfurling of his life, from tight-wound kid hustler in a wool suit riding the train out of Cheyenne to geriatric limper in this spooled-out year, Mero had kicked down thoughts of the place where he began, a so-called ranch on strange ground at the south hinge of the Big Horns.’ Like so much modern prose, this demands to be read quickly, with just enough attention to register the bold use of words.
Whether they're roping, ranching, or riding the rodeo, the characters in these tales are all tough, hard-living people who do what needs to be done and don't spend a lot of time whining about it.Some of their exploits made my mouth drop open:Their endurance of pain was legendary.
Even the womenfolk are super tough:When the youngest girl, Mabel, was a few months old they made a journey into Laramie, the infant howling intolerably, the wagon bungling along, stones sliding beneath the wheels.
As they crossed the Little Laramie Mrs. Tinsley stood up and hurled the crying infant into the water.
Tell you what, them queer cowboys like to broke my heart. Annie Proulx, I wish I knew how to quit you.Your strange mix of roughed up realism and supernatural does something to my insides. It’s too much for ordinary sentence structure. Pours out all over the confines of punctuation, seeping into my subconscious until I’m drunk and reeling reading just a sentence then a few paragraphs and soon the whole story to anyone who’ll listen. And still I want more.
The stark beauty of wide open spaces and the love of outdoor life bonded many of the characters to the land in Annie Proulx's first book of her Wyoming trilogy.
Wealthy people bought failing ranches to use as dude ranches for weekend getaways.Close Range: Wyoming Stories is composed of eleven short stories with the prize winners at the beginning and the end of the book.
"The Blood Bay" is a Western tale with a comic twist.Annie Proulx lived in Wyoming for several years before writing Close Range: Wyoming Stories, and uses many regional expressions in her prose.
The Wyoming environment is a character in many of the stories.
A truly wonderful book, that I don't mind telling you made me cry like a baby."Nobody leaves Wyoming unless they have to," Annie Proulx.
I'm pleased I waited until I had to leave Wyoming to read this book, despite it stirring powerful feelings of homesickness.
This is because, people, culture, civilization, all of this shrinks when you stand on the prairie in the shadow of the mountains and you feel that Wyoming wind, "no local breeze, but the great harsh sweep of wind from the turning of the earth." "Dangerous and indifferent ground: against its fixed mass the tragedies of people count for nothing although the signs of misadventure are everywhere.
In fact, her writing is so good that when I saw "Brokeback Mountain" (which I saw *before* I read her short fic on which it was based), I didn't think it was a great story...
Annie Proulx so much, in fact, that for years I didn't notice the "E." at the beginning of her name...
and by the time I noticed, I didn't care.I sent a copy of this book to my 87 year old Great Aunt Georgene Conley, the cowboy poetess who lives in Belle Fourche, South Dakota.
I don't know what they might have done to this story, but probably came close to ruining it.I liked The Mud Below about a young man who chooses to become a rodeo bull rider.
Rodeo night in a hot little Okie town and Diamond Felts was inside a metal chute a long way from the scratch on Wyoming dirt he named as home, sitting on the back of bull 82N, a loose-skinned brindle Brahma-cross identified in the program as Little Kisses.
55 Miles may be the darkest humor I've ever encountered and yet it was definitely there.As with any collection, there is bound to be a story that just missed the mark for the reader and there were those, too.
Before Brokeback Mountain gets taken entirely out of context, take a look at Annie Proulx's Close Range: Wyoming Stories, the collection in which the story is featured.
If you've seen the movie but have yet to read the story, I suggest you begin here.
If you've already read the story by itself, come back to this collection entire.
Certainly it can be read on its own - each story in Close Range probably can.
The richness of "Brokeback Mountain," the fullness of the story, is somewhat lost without the other stories that come before it.
Annie Proulx.
I honestly think that Myers guy must just have some problems he's got to sort out.
And I really don't think I'm especially pretentious, or cowed by snooty literary reviewers, whom I barely read.
In fact I barely read at all these days, I have such a short attention span, and to me this is the accessible literature for the distractable masses that Myers is moaning gets no respect.
Proulx tells wonderful stories, and she tells them wonderfully.
Proulx's a woman, and a fabulous writer!
Proulx is so good she can make me like short stories. So good she can make her words almost poetic in their beauty about Wyoming - a place where the inhabitants need to be tougher than their environment. It is a bleak hardscrabble world with only the grimmest sort of humour.As other reviewers have mentioned, Brokeback Mountain is the outstanding tale - a love story of surprising tenderness. & I find Job History oddly flat - I'm sure it was deliberate & I have missed some subtle nuances.An awesome achievement.
Uneven, yet generally interesting collection of eleven stories. Brokeback Mountain is the one with a movie adaptation and you can see why. It's one of the best stories of the bunch - taut, well-written, emotionally complex. At her best, you could reasonably compare Proulx to Flannery O'Connor - masterly writers of the grotesque and lonesome.
Every story is set in Wyoming (as is noted by the book’s subtitle).
This makes for an interesting dynamic as the reader already has an idea of what Wyoming is like and a setting description given in one story can bleed over into the others.
The most famous story is now “Brokeback Mountain” because nothing promotes a book like the movie.
My pick from Close Range is “A Lonely Coast.” It has one of the best symbolic hooks I’ve read:You ever see a house burning up in the night, way to hell and gone out there on the plains?
Just reread this, after I kept looking up, seeing it on the shelf, and thinking, "Man, I need to reread that." There isn't a wasted word in this book.
The stories are lean, visceral, and operatic.
The collection begins and ends with two masterpieces: "The Half-Skinned Steer"--a tale of fate that uses an Icelandic legend--and "Brokeback Mountain," a love story that rings with doom reminiscent of Greek tragedy.
Wyoming is the central, reoccurring character: a hard, merciless, and miraculous landscape that serves (like Cormac McCarthy's border region) as a fitting backdrop for so many scenes of raw humanity.
Annie Proulx makes many contemporary writers look like they're not trying.
. Che purtroppo ho trovato in versione micro , ma può essere riassunta come solitario e sperso cavallo ,ai bordi di un recinto, in mezzo alla neve) scoperto che era ambientato nel Wyoming (regione che mi ha sempre attratta irresistibilmente),che Annie Proulx è un premio Pulitzer (non mi prendete per snobbona , ma quasi tutti i Pulitzer che ho letto li ho amati alla follia) e che su uno di questi racconti ,e precisamente, "Gente del Wyoming" si basa lo splendido film di Ang Lee "I segreti di Brokeback Mountain" me ne sono appropriata immediatamente.
If you already know why Annie Proulx rox ur fuckin face off, then I don't know why you're reading a review instead of the book itself.
It's Annie Fuckin Proulx.
A grab bag of voices, all unlikely, that switch mid-sentence; stories that end long after the first narrative arc dead-ended and long before the second gets off the ground; nonsensical lines that don't mean squat no matter how you squint but sure sound purdy.She gets away with this because she's Annie Fuckin Proulx, she has the best sentence-level action since Henry James, every character is tenderly human and nothing, not one goddamn thing, is throw-away.
Proulx evokes the forests and mountains and plains and ranchlands and small towns so vividly I could smell the mud and the livestock and the diesel exhaust from the tractor trailers flying past on the interstate.
The attachment to the ranching life is a running theme here - people who won't give up the land despite its dire economics, who give themselves over to dude ranching or working for rich out of towners come to live a fantasy cowboy lifestyle, or, in one story, who go so far as to kill off livestock in a radical attempt to save the natural environment.
Until "Brokeback Mountain." She sets "Brokeback Mountain" up with a one-page gleeful jack-o-lantern of a story called "55 Miles to the Gas Pump," about the necrophiliac serial killer Rancher Croom jumping off a cliff.
After "55 Miles to the Gas Pump," and the whole book, in which you're drawn in to the desperate, longing interiors of implausibly hard people and their dingy, bleak ranch lives, "Brokeback Mountain" releases all the restraint she's built up over the book's arc: Jack and Ennis are absolutely real, unexaggerated, and you're allowed no distance from them and their suffering.
The difference between Proulx and McCarthy (as fierce, modern writers of westerns) is that McCarthy can write convincingly about the punishing violence of the west, but he wants to remain romantic and charming about it, while Proulx is not interested in being romantic - she cuts right through the bullshit.Finally, do not let the famous movie based on one of the stories in this book keep you from reading.
The corny soap opera released in theaters as 'Brokeback Mountain' is nothing like the story in this book.
Like I said, Proulx is not sentimental, the 'Brokeback Mountain' in this book is very sad and real.
"Only earth and sky matter.
You begin to see that God does not owe us much beyond that." (99)Annie Proulx creates some very convincing characters and stories.
She is an extremely talented writer.All of these stories are steeped in Wyoming culture, life and lore.
All in all, these stories are surprising, touching, contemplative, and philosophical.Favorites are the classic "Brokeback Mountain" (the only story I had previously read), "The Mud Below," "Pair a Spurs", "The Half-Skinned Steer" (one of John Updike's picks for best short stories of the century).These stories are like Wyoming herself: "You don't leave until you have to." (190)
Should actually be subtitled "Why Not to Live in Wyoming." Seriously, this is one of the most depressing collections of short stories I've ever encountered.
Which is not to say they're not good, just that I'd kind of like to challenge Proulx to write a bit of light comedy or something."Brokeback Mountain" is the best, and I actually find the story much more evocative and powerful than the film.
(Not that Jake Gyllenhaal and Heath Ledger making out is anything to sneeze at, mind.) Still, I'm glad I got a copy pre- tie-in cover and title change.
I'm shallow, and I really hate that.
This was a really amazing collection of short stories.
I had several favorites throughout the book, and I was genuinely surprised that the length of the story didn't really matter to me.
My favorite story, Job History, was only 10 pages.
'The Bunchgrass Edge of the World' and 'Pair a Spurs' were other favorites.
I think that Proulx is an excellent writer with a pretty much limitless imagination.
Among the other things that surprised me was the variety in the stories.
They didn't read like more of the same at all.
I would love to read the next two books in the series.
Author Annie Proulx became famous after her short story “Brokeback Mountain” was made into a movie in 2005 that won three Academy Awards and received five more Oscar nominations. (Plus, Proulx was just awarded the 2018 Library of Congress Prize for American Fiction.) This short story was originally published in the collection “Close Range: Wyoming Stories.” You can read my review of this book in my latest blog post here. https://tcl-bookreviews.com/2018/05/0...
There are two more volumes of Wyoming Stories. I'm pretty excited about that!
Great collection of stories. "Brokeback Mountain" is probably the most famous one, for obvious reasons, but all the others are equally good. I'm amazed at Annie Proulx's ability to convey the male perspective, especially in such particular (and masculine) circumstances as rodeo or ranching. Her prose is quite harsh and unvarnished, and full of dry humour, just like Wyoming itself and its people, but at the same time it's beautiful in its bluntness, even poetic. I found these stories irresistible and fascinating.
These stories capture the hard edge of the rural West. This is the land and its natural brutality crushing and pounding into human emotions. Indeed the land hits from close range.

Really lovely, really kind of subtly tremendous with both its people and its place. It’s just the kind of thing I want to read. It’s how to be in love with a place that will eat you alive.Other cultures have camped here a while and disappeared. Only earth and sky matter. Only the endlessly repeated flood of morning light. You begin to see that God does not owe us much beyond that. — “People In Hell Just Want a Drink of Water”(In my quest to read the books my favorite authors have read, chalk up another win for Elmore Leonard.)
Ironically, despite my beef with this approach and my constant bitching that we should look to stories themselves to show us how to write stories, Brokeback Mountain the film brought me to this book more than anything else.But once I opened Close Range, Proulx demonstrated what this genre can do.
After its publication, literary accolades continued to rain, but Brokeback Mountain failed to win the award for Best Picture and Proulx was mercilessly lambasted by B.R. Myers in his now-famous ”Reader’s Manifesto.” (It delighted me to read him quoting lines I loved, and then talking shit about them.) Proulx, Close Range, and Brokeback sit at a strange nexus: loved by the literary establishment, respectfully received, with various reservations and qualifiers, by the mass media; and scorned by sharp old boys like Myers.
There is something…kind of shlocky about Proulx, an exaggerated commitment towards nastiness less within the storylines themselves, maybe (though there is plenty of this) than in the writing itself, the metaphors and asides all tending in these very specific directions.
Is it possible that it was just maybe the moment, the day, some trick of the light, that I never loved her, that it was not real at all?
There are some good ones in here, some real winners – I quite liked 59 miles to the pump, I think it was called, and the one about the belt buckle.
