https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30122.The_Missing_Piece
به دنبال گُم شده ام مى گردم آهاى، در همه جا به دنبال گم شده ام مى گردميه دايره اى، يه تيكه از خودشو گم كرده -شبيه پيتزايى كه يه تيكشو خوردن يا شخصيت پَك مَن- و شروع ميكنه به جستجو به دنبال قطعه ش؛ همينجورى قل ميخوره و آواز ميخونه، زير برف و بارون و آفتاب سوزان و از ميان جنگل و كوه به مسيرش ادامه ميده.
چون ناقص هست، نميتونه سريع حركت كنه و هر از گاهى استراحت مى كنه، با كِرما حرف ميزنه، گُل ها رو بو ميكنه...
و زندگى ميكنه!اُم شده ام اِيدا شده، اُم شده ام اِيدا شده!بالاخره بعد از ماجرا هاى بسيار، ق
و زندگى ميكنه!‏اُم شده ام اِيدا شده، اُم شده ام اِيدا شده!بالاخره بعد از ماجرا هاى بسيار، قطعه ى گم شده ش رو پيدا مى كنه؛ خوشحال و سرمست از كامل و بى عيب شدن، به راه مى افته؛ اما متوجه چيزى ميشه...
اينكه هر از گاهى به اين فكر كنيم كه بعد از رسيدن و كامل شدن، زندگى چى ميشه؟‏نابغهجا داره همينجا جلوى عمو شلبى، تعظيم كنم؛ ميدونستم كه مفاهيم عميقى رو تو كتاباش، در ساده ترين و تصويرى ترين حالت ممكن به مخاطب ارائه ميده ولى توقع همچين چيزيو نداشتم!
This guy roams about looking for his missing piece (hello!), trying different ones on for size and not finding the right fit.
And then one day he does find that perfect piece, the one that's been missing all his life and everything seems great!
But then he realizes life is passing him by too fast and he can't sing his song anymore.
He's missing out on life.
He goes on singing his song, enjoying life.
Part of me thinks: Good for him!Part of me thinks, sure, he wants to roam free, okay, but he leaves the perfect piece in the lurch: What a dick!
It doesn’t like this, and sets out to find its missing piece, singing:Oh, I'm lookin' for my missin' pieceI'm lookin' for my missin' pieceHi-dee-ho, here I golookin' for my missin' pieceIt starts out on a grand adventure searching for the perfect piece to complete itself, while singing and enjoying the scenery.
کتابی تصویری است که شل سیلورستاین برای کودکان نوشت و نخستین بار در سال 1976 میلادی منتشر شد.
سیلورستاین در سال 1981 میلادی دنباله‌ ای بر این کتاب نوشت با نام آشنایی قطعهٔ گم‌شده با دایرهٔ بزرگ که این‌بار از زبان یک قطعهٔ گم‌شده نوشته شده که به دنبال دایره‌ اش می‌گردد.
Oh my, now thatIt was completeIt could not sing at all."Aha," it thought,"So that's how it is!"So it stopped rolling.اوه، حالا کامل شده بوداما دیگر نمی توانست آواز بخواندبا خود گفت«!آه پس که اینطور»...اون وقت ایستاد

عالی و متناسب فضای ذهنی این روزهایم
It's not so much that Silverstein's telling us to avoid relationships like the plague, he's cautioning us not to seek completion in other people, ideas, or things.
Or we might get distracted by our own pain, take them for granted, and let them slip away.And Silverstein's not just talking about relationships here.
He's talking about our life journeys.
No ideology, wealth level, or achievement will make us complete.
We don't journey toward completeness or perfection in our lifetimes.
Such grasping at completeness makes us miserable, takes the song out of our lives.
Dia juga gak bisa bernyanyi karena mulutnya ketutupan si "missing piece" ini.(view spoiler)[Jadi akhirnya dia memutuskan untuk melepaskan satu piece itu dan kembali menikmati dunianya.
Persepsi yang didapat jadi beda soalnya kalo nebak - nebak sendiri >.<)Buku ini memang bercerita tentang hubungan.Contohnya waktu lingkaran menemukan "piece" yang cocok, tapi karena gak dipegang erat, piece itu pun terlepas.
Kita menemukan orang yang (mestinya) cocok, tapi karena gak kita jaga ya lepas gitu aja.Lalu saat lingkaran menemukan "piece" yang cocok, dia malah merasa jadi terlalu terikat, kehilangan identitas, dan terbebani.
I did not like this one nearly as much as I liked the story behind "The Missing Piece Meets the Big O". The message seemed to be that finding that special someone is bad because you miss all the things you liked when you were "single".
یک داستان خواندنی درباره ی رابطه ی بین زن و مرد که بسیار ماهرانه در قالب یک داستان کودکانه قرار گرفته (ماجرای دایره ای غمگین که دنبال قطعه گمشده ی خودش میگرده) درسته این کتاب برای بچه ها نوشته شده ولی یه جورایی مطمئنم کمتر بچه ای پیدا میشه که مفهوم داستان رو درک کنه و این دلیل نمیشه که بچه ها از این کتاب خوششون نیاد ، عمو شلبی داستانش رو چنان ماهرانه نوشته که همه ی سنین از خوندن اون لذت ببرن
It was sooooooo gooooood :D
داستان كوتاه و جالبي بود، در واقع لذتبخش بودن اين داستان خلاصه در زبان ساده و كوتاهي كلام بود. داستاني كه در ظاهري ساده اما غناي روايي بيان كننده اين نكته بود كه قطعه ي گمشده را بايد پيدا كرد، بايد آنقدر به دنبالش گشت تا پيدايش كرد و همچنين بايد قبول كرد كه نيازي نيست آن قطعه ناكامل باشد تا كامل كننده ي ما باشد.
جزو سه اثر برتر عمو شلبی از نظر من این داستان واقعا میتونه معنای پرفکت بودن رو توی ذهن آدم تغییر بدهبرای بار چندم خوندمش و برای اولبن بار انگلیسی اما همون قدر لذت بردم که اولین بار خوندمش
While on the way, the circle meets up with several triangular shaped pieces that the circle tries on itself, but none of the triangular pieces would fit the circle.Shel Silverstein has done it again in providing us a book that tries to give out a lesson in life, just like his well-known and controversial book, “The Giving Tree.” I loved the fact that this story tackles the issue about people going on personal journeys to find their true purpose in life and in this case, the circle was trying to find its missing piece to make itself complete.
"Hi," it said."Hi," said the piece."Are you anybody else's missing piece?""Not that I know of.""Well, maybe you want to be your own piece?""I can be someone's and still be my own.""Well, maybe you don't want to be mine.""Maybe I do." Like all of Shel Silverstein's books, The Missing Piece is a simple and beautiful little life lesson.Thanks, Tara!
عمو شلبی عجیب و مهربونم بزرگترین رفیق دوران نوجوانیم.. مگه میشه داستانک و شعرات و دوس نداشت؟
یک بار به نظر می رسیدقطعه جفت و جور خودش را پیدا کرده باشدولی به قدر کافی محکم نگهش نداشتو او را از دست داددفعه بعد، زیادی سفت گرفتو او را شکست
Eu particularmente não entendo todo o fuzz que esse livro tem recebido no Brasil, será que é porque nunca saí em busca da "parte que falta"?
It is a great exploration within the simplicity, but yet the great depth of what Shel Silverstein has to offer when it comes to basic wisdom for young readers.
In this case, a Pac-Man-like character is looking for a "missing piece" in order to seek a sense of completion, but it realizes that one does not necessarily need a particular attribute or object in order to seek perfection and that perfection is something that comes from within.
I can definitely see where the book is a bit too simple and how the ending is so open-ended, but its underlying message definitely hits home and this was an enjoyable read.
Growing up I remember Shel Silverstein's books distinctly because I have never seen those types of illustrations in the front cover and even though I was too little to read them I was fascinated at looking at the pictures.
Then going a few years back I read some recommendations of pictures book that will impact your life and this book was included in the list.
I only remember now to read it after I recently read The Giving Tree and found that the library has this book.
Even though the story did not impact me I still love the story, the simple illustrations, and the humor of this book.
What youngsters will see as a fantasy story about a Pacman-like creature (identified only as "It") who is searching for its missing piece, adults will identify as a book about the trajectory of relationships.
It also loses the piece, and rolls off happily, once again singing about finding its missing piece.
The moral is that relationships can never live up to our expectations, and the fun and joy may be in searching for "The One," rather than actually locating him/her.
I think it's funny that this book is sometimes given as a wedding gift, because in actuality it is quite anti-relationship.

I'm a bit iffy on this one. I think it is a great message that we are whole as we are, but this book seems to suggest that you don't need anyone else in life. In fact, it seems to say we're better off alone, and that is a message I find hard to swallow.
"I am not your missing piece. I am nobody's piece."*"Oh my, now that it was complete, it could not sing at all."
A great fable about finding who you really are...is it just me or does this figure look a lot like Pacman?
Então não acho que seja ruim pra nenhuma criança entrar em contato com uma perspectiva diferente dessa, pelo contrário.Pra mim, a lição que fica é: nem todo mundo se sente tão pleno acompanhado quanto sozinho.
E nem sempre falta uma parte, não dá certo contar com outra pessoa pra te completar, você mesmo precisa aprender a viver numa boa, e talvez uma hora acabe encontrando alguém que também vive numa boa e vocês acabem vivendo numa boa juntos.
E se não acontecer, de boa também.Além do mais, ninguém merece ser a parte de outra pessoa, né?
This is one of the most amazing books I have ever read in my life.
About a year after my separation from my husband, I was going through some boxes and I came across this book.
I had written the date on it that the book club had sent it to my son.
I had taped a picture of my son (at the age he was when he received the book...
about 4 years old).
I pushed the box aside and read the book.
I realized that everything was going to be ok.
I AM SO SORRY BUT I AM JUST SO OBSESSED WITH THIS BOOK THAT I HAD TO PUT IT IN ALL CAPS TO EXPRESS IT!!!!
I DON'T KNOW WHY I LOVE IT SO MUCH, I CAN'T REALLY TELL YOU.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT IS THE PACMAN LOOKING THING THAT IS LOOKING FOR HIS PIECE SO MUCH BUT I CAN READ THIS BOOK OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
There is a lot of messages that can be conveyed in this story, plus there are a lot of catchy rhymes that I am sure all children can enjoy.
I ENJOYED IT AND I AM SEVENTEEN YEARS OLD!!!
As you can see....there is not a 'Shel Silverstein' book I have not read. (we owned them al). My kids --my husband --an I were all big fans! (we would 'act' the out to each other at different times).
La cosa más bonitas (':
