https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11381643-playing-for-keeps
Jason is Haley’s next door neighbor from HELL, but in truth he really is a fun and misunderstood kind of guy.
Zachary Knighton as Jason:Shy school teacher Haley can’t believe she finally stood up for herself against the jerk neighbor, but it felt good.
But soon the friendship deepens, and do they get HOT![image error]I loved this little story.
It was funny, hot and just what I was in the mood for.
My only complaint is that I felt the laughs faded too much toward the end as Jason and Haley had to work through their drama before they could find their own HEA.
They hit it off and start hanging out as "just friends" for several months, a relationship that soon includes tons of platonic sleeping.
Jason wants to fuck Hayley, but he is sure that she would never want to be with a man like him.
If there are any men reading this, here is a hint- if a woman lets you sleep in her bed every night for three months, then she is probably also willing to fuck you.
Jason especially was hard for me to figure out.However, this book does contain several things that seem to be trends in new romance novels, including platonic sleeping, animal nicknames and an extremely long epilogue.
So is Haley, to think of it.“How dare you touch my cookies, you bastard!” Jason said in utter disgust before popping the cookie into his mouth and heading back to his house.“Damn those looked good, too,” Brad grumbled.Haley sighed.
“And surprising none of them has killed you yet.""I hate you," Haley mumbled, storming past him to grab a carriage."You love and adore me," Jason informed her as he deftly snagged her carriage away from her and headed towards the men's department."I can't remember the last time I've laughed this much while reading a book.
Unfortunately, I only got to page 39 of this book before I gave up on it.
The blurb implies it's a enemies-to-lovers trope, but the hero and heroine are only enemies for (literally) the first pages of the book.
(I have since read that the author is having her books edited AFTER their release).Again, these two things would not necessarily have been deal breakers for me.
Unfortunately, the hero (Jason) was.
Jason takes an entire plate of cookies and refuses to share them with anybody.
When he learns there is a second plate of cookies in the heroine's house, he enters her house and takes those too, as well as her milk.
Caution:You will laugh out loud! I mean it!I hate reading funny books but this one was a random pick which turned out to be sooo good!Enter,JasonHe is 31 and definitely the biggest jackass on earth,or at least he seems to be.He is every householders' nightmare.We can see what a prick he is from Haley's eyes. How would you feel if your idiot neighbor destroyed your bed flower? I dont know about you but I would have KILLED HIM! Well in our story his action brings them closer which is good since t
Well in our story his action brings them closer which is good since their hate turns into friendship and then into something more.With him she comes out of her shell and she feels comfartable with a 'friend'.Surprisingly she changes him too!We can see that he acts more like his age and he is so adorable.However,he is still a baked goods-whore.I mean it!I've never read about someone who is so obsessed with food and especially with baked goods.His food addiction is beyond hilarious.Our cookie whore would kill anyone,including his own dad,if he touched his food.“Hey, those look good!
This book was amazing and after a lot of after-thought I finally decided to go for a 5 star as the rating ;) 'Playing for keeps'  is a novel that provides a perfect example of how important it is to NEVER judge a book by its cover..and I'm glad I chose not to with this one.The stellar reviews this book received from book besties,left me curious enough to pick this one out.So an applause for their fabulous review :D And now I'm just another reviewer hoping that I recommend this book good enough..
is a novel that provides a perfect example of how important it is to NEVER judge a book by its cover..and I'm glad I chose not to with this one.The stellar reviews this book received from book besties,left me curious enough to pick this one out.So an applause for their fabulous review :D And now I'm just another reviewer hoping that I recommend this book good enough...so that I may at least just another 2 or 3 to pick it out as well !!!
Each time you threw something at me and went back to sleep."Jason gaped at her.
Seriously I would kill to have a guy like Jason move in with me...LOL these two are just freakin hilarious.
I told my friend I needed something light and she recommended this one, and it is perfect.
Of course, once they are forced together one day and able to communicate things are cleared up.
Naturally their attraction for each other gets in the way and things escalate.
I liked how things didn't get too dramatic or angsty.
Yes, this one was predictable, but I love Jason and Haley's little moments together.
This story is such a quick read, it will have you laughing out loud, and has some swoon worthy moments.
I recommend this one for when you are looking for something light and fun.
FREE on Amazon US today (6/4/2015)Stand-alone book 1.BLURB:Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint. What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy next door is capable of. The last thing Jason expected was for his little shy neighbor to go Rambo on him over some ruined
FREE on Amazon US today (6/4/2015)Stand-alone book 1.BLURB:Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint.
What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy next door is capable of.
The last thing Jason expected was for his little shy neighbor to go Rambo on him over some ruined flowers.
Everything was cliché: she has a rich family that doesn’t appreciate her, the grandma is tough and she automatically approves of the ‘boyfriend’ even though she never has before, the son is the spitting image of the father, they have to wrestle in the mud to be close to each other upon meeting, he’s instantly turned on by her to the point of being unbearable, she’s amazing at foreplay even though she’s never done anything before, THEIR BEDROOM WINDOWS ARE LITERALLY LESS THAN TWO FEET APART FROM EACH OTHER – how convenient, she has a confrontation with an old ex of his, he gets jealous about an old ex of hers, all the men who are not taken are deemed perverted assholes, all the girls but Haley are bitchy.He’s forced to use her shower, even though he lives next door, because they are trapped by bees – really?
3.5 stars. Rounding up because Jason is such a rock star.   She quietly said good night, rolled her eyes as Jason mumbled, "I love you" to his brownies, and headed off to the bathroom.  I picked up Playing for Keeps because it was getting some attention and I was curious to see why a seemingly unnoticeable book (have you seen the cover?) was starting to cause a stir.What I was expecting : Neighbors who don't get along spend half of a book torturing the living daylights out of each other before t
She quietly said good night, rolled her eyes as Jason mumbled, "I love you" to his brownies, and headed off to the bathroom.
I know that not everyone loved the use of "Grasshopper" in this book but I found it cute and personal.
How could you not laugh at : Fists of Furry?Love story aside, Jason is the real reason to read PFK.
"You never brought me to a buffet restaurant at home," she pointed out.Jason mumbled something."What?" she asked."I said, I've been banned," he grumbled unhappily.
"It's all political," he sniffed."Uh huh...and your father?" she asked."He's been banned since 1995," Jason said with a shrug.
4 ‘I giggled, I snickered, and fanned myself' stars!!! Playing for Keeps is the first book in R.L. Mathewson’s Neighbor from Hell series and one hell of a funny story. Description…Done with being the world's biggest pushover, Haley decides that things are going to change starting with the aggravating neighbor who has too much charm and not enough restraint. What she didn't expect was to be sucked into his world, but Haley has a game plan and she won't let herself forget just what the bad boy ne
Playing for Keeps is the first book in R.L. Mathewson’s Neighbor from Hell series and one hell of a funny story.
And although Jason is definitely a neighbor from hell, it’s not the literal kind of hell.
Prison time starts looking good if it means ridding the world of him and his annoying, loud, friends.After realizing that this is not a PNR, I was anticipating a light, fun read and yeah, I got that, but there’s something more about Playing for Keeps; a connection between myself and the characters I can't explain and wasn't expecting.
I haven't read a book this funny in a while. It got to a point, where I'd just burst out laughing. Which led to strange looks from my family...priceless.Jason and Haley make an adorable couple and the bantering between these two are hilarious. Not to mention the secondary characters being Jason's friends are an added bonus.This is a real feel good, pick me up type of book, that'll have you laughing in no time. Loved it!
This book was so freaking amazing and then it had to fall into the CR-trap.
And they fall in love.
And Jason loves food.
Funny and sweet, and I loved hanging with them.
Haley gets upset.
In one page we get back to loving each other - and yes we now know after being apart for several weeks, yelling and fighting nasty that we are going to get married right away.
They have the most dysfunctional fight ever - but we are getting married now.
But why ruin something beautiful with a childish out-of-character fight?In the end.
This book was absolutely hilarious!I was laughing the whole time...when I wasn't crying that is.Loved it.Get on it.
As a unique friendship develops, both Jason and Haley find themselves dating each other without actually dating one another, only time will tell if it will develop into something more.I thought this was a huge surprise, it is funny, cute, and has just enough surprises to keep me from putting it down.
Jason has an obsessively unhealthy addiction to food, which adds several extremely funny moments in the book.
Glad I did.**Reread because I had read Perfection.
In the next book, Perfection Jason works for his dad's construction company?
There are some pretty funny moments in this book that I forgot about.
“If she tried to leave without him he would burn her house down, plain and simple.” Playing for Keeps is a light hearted modern romance with an abundance of satire and a great deal of tongue and cheek humor.For the past five years, Haley has been living next door to “the neighbor from Hell”.
Needless to say, the two are quite opposite.Haley and Jason don’t get along.
The combination of the proximity of the two and the fact that they both compliment each other so perfectly prompts Haley and Jason to become friends.
Overall, a truly enjoyable read.
Yay...found a new author to stalk;) Loved this book!
LOVED. THIS. BOOK.So cute and funny and sappy!You cookie thieving bastardJason and his father were suchhhhhh food sluts!
It was well written, with characters I really cared about, lots of adorably cute and funny moments, no heart-breaking moments, no damaged or tortured characters, didn't make me cry at any point, really really adorable HEAs, and not super long reads.
I read this book and its sequel in 4 hours.
It was the perfect way to spend a sunny afternoon.I love the way their relationship developed.
Literally the entire point of the story is about two people who fall in love and how they get to their HEA.
No complications, no external drama, no bad guy, just a love story.
I enjoyed this book very much. I will give a full review later.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
I enjoyed this very sexy, romantic comedy.I think I laugh so hard in some part of this book that I was crying.
This was the most playful, flirty, sweet story ever.
I just loved Jason and Haley's interaction with each other.
That's my kind of romance.
Jason is one of those guys that you just can't stay mad at no matter how bad you want to.
Omg His obsession with food and cookies of any kind is hilarious!...
He had me at "My Brownies!!" I like this author and will read the rest of this series.
Thank you for recommending this book
I have a thing for crazy characters so I loved him.
“How dare you touch my cookies, you bastard!” Jason said in utter disgust before popping the cookie into his mouth and heading back to his house.“Damn those looked good, too,” Brad grumbled.Haley sighed.
“Don’t worry I have a second plate on my counter.” The words were barely out of her mouth when Jason abruptly changed course and headed towards her house.“Well, there was,” she said, watching Jason walk into her house like he owned it.
Jason did a shitty thing, Haley got scared, they both behaved like idiots.
Jason and Haley’s first interaction, their friendship that becomes more, the falling out, the reconciling, and lordy lordy their time between the sheets was steamy and sensual.
Jason’s love affair with food had me rolling my eyes and laughing out loud, and Haley’s transformation from shy schoolteacher to the brawling grasshopper with her “fits of fury” was a picture I could not get out of my head.
I didn’t want Jason and Haley's story to end, I wanted more time with this adorable couple, but all good things must come to an end.
I am sorry but this book was beyond boring...
Looked at the last 2 or 3 pages and I didn't have the strength to read the epilogue...The story was meant to be humorous, I never - even once- smiled, let alone laugh...By the way, how can a coward and introvert woman change in the blink of an eye and become this confident and fun girl?How can a 30 year-old guy act so childishly?
Yuck!And the writing was bad - it never flowed...Sorry, but even if I went on and read all of it, I doubt I would say anything nicer.
And if you can't continue reading a book, you shouldn't really...
***3.75 Neighborly stars***A NEIGHBOR FROM HELL is what Jason is when he moves in next door to Haley.   "My name is Jason Bradford. I'm the neighbor from hell."  You won't find Mister Rogers neighborhood love  between these two feuding neighbors. Until one day a bunch of Tulips change their relationship. Enemies - Friends - Lovers!SERIES:    No cliffhangers. Spinoffs
That I can guarantee.Let me cut the chase without the review propriety and just get on with my main concerns.I have high expectations when it comes to story pacing.
If the author wants to make scene development fast-paced to avoid boring plot and dialogue, then it should be subtly written so as not to make the entire book sketchy.As for characterization, Jason Bradford and Haley Blaine were both immature in this reader’s opinion.
The break-up scenes were too childish for my taste.
Tsk. This book could have been a 5-star due to its interesting plot and funny lines.
Re-read: 21.09.2018 I skimmed. I'm sorry, I did. I can't deny it. I wasn't really all that into it, and I realized that after the first sentence in the book. I couldn't remember the book from the first time reading it so I thought 'oh, I might like this one again'. But yeah, I skimmed, a lot. Don't get me wrong, the book is incredibly cute and the banter and friendship between Haley Blaine (29) and her neighbor of five years (and they work at the same private high school), Jason Bradford (31) a
I couldn't remember the book from the first time reading it so I thought 'oh, I might like this one again'.
Don't get me wrong, the book is incredibly cute and the banter and friendship between Haley Blaine (29) and her neighbor of five years (and they work at the same private high school), Jason Bradford (31) are awesome, their connection spot on.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating?
(hide spoiler)]HEA?
(hide spoiler)]Favorite character?
- Jason Bradford.Would I read more by this author/or of series?
- Unsure.Would I recommend this book/series?
The characters where cute and the friendship turned lovers was awesomely written.Rate: 4/3 stars.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I absolutely LOVED this book! Playing for Keeps is flat out hilarious! I couldn't put the book down. I was up at 3:30 in the morning laughing my butt off so loud I was afraid I would wake the kids. Jason's love for food cracks me up like nothing else. I love Jason, his friends, his father, Haley... I love them all. This book is brilliant! I can't wait to start the next in the series, Perfection. I have just found a new favorite author! If you want a funny, heartfelt story, read this book!  "For
I absolutely LOVED this book!
I couldn't put the book down.
I was up at 3:30 in the morning laughing my butt off so loud I was afraid I would wake the kids.
Jason's love for food cracks me up like nothing else.
I love Jason, his friends, his father, Haley...
I love them all.
This book is brilliant!
The hell with the kids.
Did they really need an education more than he needed chocolate?
He on the other hand needed that dam* chocolate."
You saw me kicking some a*s!" That thing you were doing with your hands?" She nodded.
Currently free (09/06/2016) Amazon -> http://amzn.to/2chD4dD
Haley was too funny with her fist of fury.lol Jason was just as hilarious with all his possessiveness of his food!
but then again he really didn't belive in himself to be good enough for Haley that he let his stupid insecurities get the best of him.
I love how Haley didn't forgive him and didn't give in .
I loved his friends and family.
Haley would see women over his house yelling and cussing out Jason.
Jason and haley never cheat .
he hasn't slept with anyone or anything since actually talking and becoming friends with haley.
