https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12054.Let_it_Come_Down
”With each day as it passed Dyar had been feeling a little further from the world; it was inevitable that at some point he should make a voluntary effort to put himself back in the middle of it again. To be able to believe fully in the reality of the circumstances in which a man finds himself, he must feel that they bear some relation, however distant, to other situations he has known.”  Paul BowlesNelson Dyar is desperate to escape that wire cage he’s been working in for the past few years. Whe
When a chance comes to take an odd job in Tangier, he leaves the bank, leaves New York, in the hope that he will finally start to feel something.
Wilcox is his boss in Tangier, but as far as Dyar can tell, he really doesn’t have a job for him.
Dyar takes money from a Russian woman to be a spy.
I really liked Daisy and so I was disappointed in her for seducing Dyar because I appreciate her sophistication and tasteful regard for the finer things in life.
I’m a little annoyed with Bowles that he doesn’t give me something to like about Dyar.
His short story ‘A Distant Episode’ features a spasm of violence as appallingly rococo as anything in American Psycho, but it also felt significant and real to me in a way that Brett Easton Ellis never even came close to.And then there's Let It Come Down, the book of his that I admire most.
Tangier these days with its International Zone is a place of dodgy businesses, Mecca for expats, adventurers and all kind of frauds and rich idlers.
Promised job appears to be a vague chimera, met people try use him to own purposes, city offering forbidden gaieties draws him like shifting sands and so Dyar, alternately drunk and zonked, finds himself being thief and smuggler, traitor and spy.
Tangier, as it emerges from the novel, is a strangely intoxicating, sombre, yet atmospheric place.
Bowles perfectly captures the dark atmosphere of postwar chaos drawing an evocative picture of a decadent city and its inhabitants involving in dirty games.
Returning were as tedious as go o'er.” In other words, there is no turning back.Arriving in the then International Zone of Tangier, Nelson Dyar, a former bank clerk, is supposed to take up a job in an acquaintance’s travel agency.
But it takes skills, skills of the interpersonal kind which Nelson Dyar doesn´t have and thus he will inevitably end up as wolf food if not something drastic happens, the one chance that will change the game forever.So, we walk out into the Moroccan night, looking for friends or alliances, builds ourselves an armor, because deep down we know that none of the people we meet can be trusted.
One day the sun didn't set on maybe tomorrow I'll do that thing that's going to change it all.
I didn't feel connected to the murderer or the victim, it's as if it had happened such a long time ago that they'd be dead already.
I thought Paul Bowles was brilliant when Dyar has already forgotten what he told the rich lady Daisy (in her butterfly's cocoon of money and socialite talkity talk) he wants from life.
Now I think Dyar said he wanted to feel like any of it meant anything at all.
The same is with the wind which blows from all the directions changing from a sweet breeze to a wind which carries the paralyzing promise of winter or a strong malevolent evil clattering the door.I think I have learnt one simple truth from Paul Bowles: the dreamers can't be happy, you must have simple daily achievable goals to feel content just to be alive on a fine sunny morning, however, one thing is to realize it, quite another to try to turn your thoughts off.
And I did like Dyar's spiral towards doom, and his almost casual acceptance of it.
The book is basically a series of misadventures, each worse than the last, and the only question that remains is which one will finally catch up and do him in.In general, I think Bowles fairs better in the short story than in the novel.
I liked this one less than The Sheltering Sky, but I think I will turn again to the short stories I haven't read before taking on The Spider's House.
I completely disagree, even on the surface level, and I think that’s one of the things that makes Bowles a great novelist- that he doesn’t ignore the outside world, and that Nelson Dyar, the New York banker who tries to start a new life in Tangier, in a matter of days after his arrival finds himself caught up with pursuing a young Moroccan girl, avoiding a malicious American woman who spends most of the day in bed, taking money for services not yet rendered from a Russian spy, consuming a hallucinogenic drug with an attractive American socialite, casually observing that his new employer looks anxiously in both directions when opening the office door, etc.
But have you ever seen the back of a twenty dollar bill - on weed?
All the rest seemed like they would be boring as hell.
I liked her.
Problems arose after Bowles introduced Dyar, the main character, to kif.
Hell yes, Brother Dyar, life can become monotonous.
But when all he found to do was have some drug-induced daydream/nightmare after another, I could not have cared less.
I can understand checking out, but experiencing a drug-induced daydream is (I'm assuming) a lot more fun than reading about someone experiencing them.
Holy kif crystals, the detours.
In Bowles novels that place is Morocco in the 40's and 50's, but it could be just as easily any number of "foreign" environments.
That is the point that must be reached." The premise and general curve of this novel is much the same as "The Sheltering Sky," but it is shorter and somewhat less complex, providing a good entrance into Bowles' dark vision of a world in which we are all just one step away from entering a very enticing, quite unknown, and perhaps even unknowable "danger zone."
В общем — другой штамм экзистенциализма.Кроме того, это последний из не переведенных на русский романов Боулза — а переводить его дело безблагодатное, хотя очень благодарное в конце.
Про язык Боулза много писали люди поумнее меня, и в этом романе как раз он, похоже, начал отказываться от языковых излишеств и «литературности», сводя текст к чистому изложению фактов, сухому и безэмоциоональному, убирая за текст любое авторское отношение к тому, что изображает.
При этом автор, похоже, только учится писать так, поэтому текст у него довольно неровный, и как только в нем возникает какая-то лирика (обусловленная поворотом сюжета), книга заканчивается.
I know, I know--strange to be recommending a book I read more than 10 years ago (is it possible??), but this book made such an impression on me, it has stood the test of time.
I became fascinated with Paul Bowles in the early nineties, after someone loaned me a copy of The Sheltering Sky. There is something of the haunting power of the Other that pervades EM Forster's A Passage to India in that novel, but with a more existential outlook, unique to Bowles' narratives.By the time I read Let It Come Down, I had a hearty appetite for the detailed descriptions of his storytelling.It's like the descriptions of the protagonist's experiences in Morocco are a mirror of the layered circles of his consciousness.
This is a gripping novel about an American who is wholly ignorant of the culture he finds himself immersed in.
He was, however, also rather "empty" even back in America.
This is sort of a crime novel, sort of a travel narrative, and sort of an object lesson about the effects of markets and economics on some Americans.
This is a good second novel, but also still clearly the work of someone becoming adjusted to a longer form of narrative than he was used to employing.
As summarized by many, book cover included, "Let it come down" is about a young man called Dyar coming to Morocco to find out more about himself and gradually getting more and more into trouble.
I was more curious to find out where and how Bowles is going to say goodbye to his character.
It's true that the story is mainly about Dyar but what really made me laugh and ponder were the interactions with and between other characters who, unlike Dyar, have a clearer idea of what they want.
A grim noir that soon transforms into scorching existential journey through identity and reality. Post war Tangiers with its trash markets, spies, battling governments, debauched party people, drugs, criminals, and the clash of Muslim and Christian culture, makes a stellar background for this chilling tale from Bowles.
durrell está para alexandria como bowles está para tânger.só PB consegue retratar tão bem aquela cidade e as gentes, os estrangeiros, os árabes, os esquemas para ganhar dinheiro, as teias de relações, um certo cansaço e aborrecimento que atinge o protagonista Dyar. ennui, como li num comentário.
Достоевский и Камю на фоне марокканских гор.Скупое, ровное, хирургически точное человеческое высказывание.
Starts out well enough as a psychological noir set in an unusual milieu, but degenerates into something un-enjoyably creepy, druggy, slow, and sad.
And for the first three sections of the book, there is a lot to like: Auster’s writing, which is lucid, direct, and thought-provoking; wonderful descriptions of Morocco and it’s people; and a great cast of characters.
The problem is that plot becomes the main focus for the fourth and final excruciating section of the book.
Also, while the plot is the focus, most of the “action” takes place in the main character’s head, but it’s not at all on the same scale as Isabel Archer’s internal struggles in The Portrait of a Lady.
Likely the most pathetic character ever evolved in a story - Nelson Dyar, a milque-toast-my-life-is-a-big-zero, heads to Tangier to the post-war International Zone to seek a new start. Meeting with Bowles-colorful characters(this author has a distinct style), he slowly begins to sink into the morass. Aimlessness and the effects of potent majoun (hash) lead to a surprising ending. Second Paul Bowles book I've read and similar in its GREAT character sketches. Dark, seamy characters who meet with their dark sides while living on the fringes of Tangier/Morrocco "in the day."
At the start of this novel I thought I was really going to enjoy the book, but I didn't. As the story evolved about a rather hopeless American guy who ends up in Tangier, I found the plot and the characters so unbelievable that I nearly didn't finish reading it. I did persevere only to confirm my total disappointment with this book.
Not nearly as good as Sheltering Sky - the characters are dull - and the setting inauthentic -- and cynical.
Vacillates between terrific and really? First half is the best.
a book about a man who is waiting for life and never takes the right choices. Downward spiral here with a little drug use thrown in to make sure he is doomed.
The story is nominally about Nelson Dyar, an American having a mid-life crisis who leaves New York to take a promised job from a distant friend in Morocco.
In a few paragraphs, we know the secret selves of The Marquesa Daisy, of Eunice Good, of Wilcox and the others who are doing their own best to make their way in the International Zone and jockey to enlist Dyar in their schemes, seeing him easily--even while he cannot see them--and manipulating him.The end of the story--the fourth section--is hallucinatory and horrible (in retrospect, an obvious reference point for Stone's own Dog Soldiers, using the structure of an adventure story to make philosophical points).
67th book for 2018.The descriptions of hashish intoxication were so over the top I thought I was reading about a group of paranoid schizophrenics using a tincture of belladonna mixed with mescaline and Sonoran toad venom. Ending felt tacked on.2-stars.
The insufferably naïve Dyar finds a woman whom he takes to be the love of his life working in a brothel while she is also kept by a wealthy American woman.
The book includes psychedelic scenes describing the use of hashish and kif, substances in which Bowles freely indulged when he moved to Tangier.
Bowles' characters are trapped in their anger.This second novel has the same broad themes as does "The Sheltering Sky" but is less effective in its long scenes of parties and expatriate society life than is the former novel with its unremitting starkness.
"Let it Come Down" is the story of Nelson Dyar, a young man of no crowning achievements, nor direction, save to find some way to "live." As a result of his dissatisfaction with a bank teller job, he flees America for a loosely described job opportunity in Tangier.
Ultimately, he becomes a blank canvas for the wills of a number of amoral expatriots and locals there, falling into a number of awkward social and legal predicaments in a very short time and ultimately expressing his unhinged desires through a completely amoral and frightening climax.
I didn't think the prose was extremely beautiful.
However, I felt the book was still entertaining, and it made me think about what it means to be alive--and dead.
What it is to feel something, and want something enough to build your own destiny vs.
just bumbling through with no clear wants or sense of yourself, letting life happen to you (which is what I think Dyar did--and am I reading too much into things that he was always referred to as "dead" by Daisy, and his name was "Dyar," i.e.
I got a little nervous when Bowles abandoned the panoramic intrigue of Tangier's ex-pat and indigeno
