https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/408851.The_Lost_Work_Of_Stephen_King
There is only one short essay that they reprinted in this book in Stephen King's actual words.
This book is for the dedicated, rabid King fan who wants to read every little thing King has ever written, like essays, book/movie/album reviews, intros to other books, speeches for conventions et.
Personally, I feel that King eventually publishes everything that he writes that is worth reading, and I trust his judgment.
The one thing the book has going for it is the King trivia tidbits that are scattered throughout the text.
This is for that obsessive fan that wants to win at Stephen King trivia. I have a feeling it only scratches the surface though.
Interesting, but would have been better if we got to actually read some of his early works.
I recently "re-discovered this work after having found it in my brother's collection of Stephen King books he had recently boxed and ready to remove (along with some other books of mine).
The book gives a great series of images of King's early work and progression as a writer.
I wouldn't say they're different, it's classic King, but the later works - obviously - seem more sophisticated and rely more on good writing than supernatural impact.
I also use it as a reference book when I re-read King's early works as to what was going through his mind and life when he wrote it.
Signed / Limited #375/1,000.Of several King Bibliographies I own - some purported to be "complete" - I don't think any are actually that. Then again, a complete bib of or modern Bard's work today could be outdated tomorrow, let alone next year. Spignesi's research shines in this one. Several of King's works had indeed been lost until publication of this work. Sept 2011, $90 on AbeBooks.
Not quite what I expected. It was great about giving a great look into who Stephen King was, how he got started (who knew his spelling and grammar sucked so bad?), and just how many pieces he wrote at the time the book was written. It is also depressing that so many of his works are either impossible, or almost impossible to find, so in that respect, it was a bit of a tease.
Don't be fooled when buying this book. I thought it actually contained some "lost work", but instead it's about some things he's written that haven't been published, or have been really lost. It's a fun read though.
Comprato a Bangor, Maine nell'estate del 2003.
