https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/576379.This_House_of_Sky
This book is exceptional.
It's slow, and needs to be read patiently.
So as slow as it is, it never has "extra".It's a boy's life as he matures to a man's life.
But even more astonishing is that he grabs the core of that Montana challenge and the grit of its every day to a 5 star degree.There are other books of far less expression and literary style that I have enjoyed more, to be truthful.
It was never a fast or "need" to find out- read.
This book was very, very real.
I do have relatives in some remote places and when I talked to this one about discovering Ivan Doig, she said that he was a great writer, known far beyond his native Montana, and that she had read several of his books and was glad I was finally starting to catch up.This House of Sky is a memoir that begins with a very young Ivan and his father Charlie’s loss of (respectively) mother and wife and Ivan’s growing up in some of the most remote country in the lower states during the post-World War II period.
I had a previous introduction to Ivan Doig with his wonderfully well-written book "Last Bus to Wisdom".
At the time, it was just what I wanted.
When I found an earlier book this same author had written, much earlier, namely "This House of Sky", I jumped on it.
Not always but on many occasion I had come to learn that an author's first book had been many a time a learning experience.
Sadly, this was one of those times.
This book did not possess the appeal of a fascinating, historical nonfiction biography - as hoped.
One comes to understand as one reads about Doig’s and his father’s and his maternal grandmother’s life, as they are presented in this biography, that his fiction talks of his own true life experiences.
The setting of the novels feels so genuine since it is anchored to real life events.
It is primarily about three people and their relationships with each other: the author, his father and his maternal grandmother.
I found the relationship between his father and his maternal grandmother ….well, you have to read the book to understand it!Warning: if you do not enjoy Ivan Doig’s novels, you will not enjoy this book.
As a result, I tried to read one of his fictional books some time back and immediately ran into what seems a trait of Doig, a trait of starting the reader out with an avalanche of descriptive text.
After the initial descriptive flood, Doig settles into a flow of seeing life to which the reader can easily relate, no matter how foreign it may be at first glance.
At some point, as the author's life takes him away from the reader's home base of Montana, Doig's writing style changes.
I was so moved by the writing at that point, that I found myself reading it to my wife, the true Doig disciple.
An absolutely beautiful and prosaic account of rural Montana, family, carving an identity for oneself, and the process of acceptance. This is the first Doig I have read- after hearing praise for years from my father and others. If ever there was a memoir to read, this is it. As a semi-native Idahoan familiar with rural lifestyles and landscapes, I was moved to tears and beyond with his painful and glorious story.
They were a hard-working, hardy group of people who survived brutal winters and catastrophes of nature.Ivan Doig's father, Charlie, was the last of a breed, a son of Scottish immigrants who had carved out a small sheep ranch in the late 1800s in the high plains and mountains of Montana.
Doig and his father and grandmother are a somewhat unlikely trio, but their lives are filled to the brim with Montana, ranching, growing up, and endless copious amounts of love and tolerance.This story touched me strongly.
Theirs is a truly special bond, between Doig--a future writer with a gorgeous touch for expression and an envious vocabulary, but a person that Doig Sr. just plainly saw as his son--and his father--a simple man who worked all his years as a ranchhand and ranch manager, a man who can be numbered hundreds of thousands of times over, a man who would be forgotten otherwise.
“On that ranch where dreams were trapped in rock...”This is a wonderful memoir about Doig's life growing up, in the rugged wilderness of western Montana.
I love this description of a young Bessie:“But it was her look to the world that changed most, and in the few photos from about her thirtieth year, her tenth in Montana, a newcomer now gazes out from where the new bride had been-a flinchless newcomer who has firmed into what she will be all the rest of her life.”
I did not want it to end! I absolutely love Ivan Doig's language and to have it grace his memoir was wonderful. I was in Montana in the early 1900's - I could feel the characters and touch the landscape. His description of his father's death is incredibly moving. I saw the genesis of his fiction that I so enjoy. I think I enjoyed this as much as The Whistling Season - and that's saying a lot!
Diane C: This House of Sky is a memoir written by Ivan Doig.
It is a book to be savored, read slowly and then reread to fully absorb his beautiful language.
It reads very much like a novel and covers Doig's life in Montana after his mother's death when Doig was only six years old.
In what must have been her fullest spate of forgiveness, she once apologized about one of the townswomen: 'Once you get used to her split infinitives, you'll find she's a very nice person.'Doig is a master at characterization and gorgeous prose.
Don't rush through this lovely book.
Elegant and yawning narrative of growing up in the west at a time when to be literate meant knowing how to tame the challenges that animals, land and weather brought.
Doig writes about his somewhat fractured childhood, how his father tried raising him alone after his wife's death.
Doig deeply respects his father's Montana roots.
The book ends with Doig's journey toward his father's death.
The impact of that loss, not just one of a father.
A loss of a mind that carried the last remnants of a different time and landscape.
This House of Sky:Landscapes of a Western Mind By Ivan Doig I was intrigued by this book because Ivan Doig is a writer from Montana.
I think this is his best book so-far.
I read it I few years ago.
Where he grew up was a place I was familiar with.
He grew up with the land.
It dictated their lives.
He learned responsibility at a young age.
At the time of his youth there were many characters in the small local towns.
He brought out the scenes of times that were simipler.
This is one of the best books I've ever read.
A beautiful book about a place and people that I love dearly.
Ivan Doig grew up in the rugged, elemental Montana wilderness with his father, Charlie, and his grandmother, Bessie Ringer.
This powerfully told story is at once especially American and quietly universal in its capacity to awaken a longing for an irretrievable past.In reading the book I reflected on my life and the relationship I had with my father.
His presentation of the relationship between his Grandmother and father and it's evolution reminds me of my grandparent's as well.
It has been hinted that my grandfather wasn't as loyal as he probably should have been(drinking,etc.) but toward the end of their lives I recognized a truce and then a deeper affection for one another similar to Bessie and Charlie in Ivan's memoir.
What I liked:*Doig is a gifted, polished writer not content with using a basic vocabulary, but one who is able to create word pictures with ease.* This book portrays the rough Montana life of the first seventy years of the 20th century.
There is no glossing over the bad or for that matter the good.*Doig's honest appraisals keep the highs and lows of the book in check.*Doig doesn't put too much detail into describing methods of sheep-herding, etc., but he puts enough so the reader can feel like they understand the procedure without being bored or overwhelmed.What I didn't like:*I listened to this on audio-cassette.
Ivan Doig's memoir of his young life in Montana is one of the best books I have read.
I am traveling to Montana soon and thought I would read this before I go.
Doig is one of my favorite authors and I wanted to visit some of the sites and see scenery found in his books.
His Dad was a ranch hand and Grandma was a crew cook.
My Dad, Mom and Grandparents were farmers who lived close to the earth.
He ends the book with the passing of his Dad and Grandma.
This book is a treasure.
If you have ever sat and listened to tales of settling in or growing up in the rural West -- homesteading, experiencing childhood on the farm, enduring back-breaking and often monotonous work in the fields, living with hard times -- then you'll find it easy to get absorbed by this book.
Mainly a memoir of a Montana boyhood spent on ranches and small towns, it reminded me a lot of listening to the stories of my grandparents and my parents, who lived for many decades in the same part of the world, just over the Canadian border.
You'll also learn quite a bit about bars in small Montana towns.
I've read some of Ivan Doig's later novels but had never taken the time to read This House of Sky, a memoir of his years growing up in Montana in the 1940s and 50s. Doig's death this past week (April 9, 2015) made me turn to his 1977 memoir, and I'm so glad I did. Beautifully written descriptive of the Montana landscape and the characters who formed his early world, especially a tribute in part to his father and maternal grandmother.
Just beautiful. I can't even remember the different reactions I had when I read this book. I just remember being captivated by the writing, and I went on to recommend this (and Doig's fiction) to book-loving friends.
One of the best books I have ever read. His prose is incredible! I would recommend this to anyone interested in pioneers or Montana.
In researching what there was to do out there, I found a website that said that This House of Sky is a must-read for anyone wanting to know what Montana is really like.
What I got was a lot more - the sense of what it was like to actually live, grow up, and work in this landscape.
I had not yet finished the book by the time we set out on our trip, but I felt like I was somewhere familiar once we arrived in Montana.
Along the way, we actually drove through White Sulphur Springs and got to see some of the places where Doig and his father made their lives.
This one took me a while to get through. It’s exceptional and beautiful, it’s just very rich and thick in language, and not “easy reading.” So I wasn’t always in the mood. But every time I picked it up I was transported, pictured it all vividly in my mind, and felt that if I hadn’t been there (which I certainly hadn’t) that I at least wished I had.
Beautiful prose—honestly some of the best writing I’ve read this year. But I could only read about moving and sheep herding for so long before nodding off. Not the worst book (especially for assigned reading) but probably wouldn’t read again.
I have read almost all of Ivan Doig's fiction, but had never read his autobiography. What a great writer of the American West. I am so sorry that he is gone.
The language of the book is beautiful. The story, less so.
A pleasant read, like a visit with a friend. Makes me want to go visit Montana, give my parents another hug. It’s a must read.
I don't know how I haven't heard of Ivan Doig until now, because he is certainly one of the best writers of my generation.
He certainly became a master of the English language, and he wrote such beautiful prose.
When reading this book you want it to never end, so that you can savor the lovely descriptions of the big sky country, the endearing people inhabiting his world, and his feelings about everything.
I can't wait to read his novels, and am only sorry that I hadn't found his books until now, after he has passed.
(Definition: an object whose original cultural environmental has disappeared.) The memoir is about Doig's childhood as he grew up in Montana's hardscrabble terrain, but takes the reader through his success as a writer.
Doig's fine prose teaches us about ranch life: the difficulties brought on by weather, animals, bosses and of course the low pay.
He remembers his childhood clearly, always grateful for the sacrifices of his father and grandmother.
Doig spent his entire writing career sharing Western Montana with his readers.
It is a pleasure to learn of the emerging west from Doig's thoughtful and often elegant writing.
Although I’ve read many of Ivan Doig’s novels which in turn has made him one of my favorite authors, nothing made me feel closer to the man himself than reading This House Of Sky. Yes, I know it’s a true story of his life, yet it was way past real.
Then, very deliberately I turned the book over and started again at the beginning.Ivan Doig’s story actually began with the last breath of his mother who died on Ivan’s sixth birthday.
Charlie didn’t care much for Bessie either, but he knew he needed her help in raising Ivan.
