https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11980343
Pls available this book online in pdf formate.
ITS A STORY OF CHHTRATRAPATI SAMBHAJI RAJE -SON OF CHHATRAPATI SHIVAJI MAHARAJ
a great book about the Maratha Warrior Sambhaji Bhonsle. His hardships, relations with different people in his life, decisions and their after effects have been portrayed in this novel. A must read if someome wants to get closer to Indian history.
Everyone knows the greatness of Shvaji, but this book has created fans for Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje in great numbers. Would surely like to revisit again in the future.
We know little information and more of rumours about Sambhaji. This book clears doubts about his actions like why he joined mughals etc.
another wonderful book by Shivaji Sawant...a nice to have in collection too
I am crazy to read Maharaj Novel
- Best & Excellent book to read on Sambhaji Raje- Good quality pages- Worth for priceAvailable At: www.cart91.com/en/products/chhava
The book depicts the life of Sambhaji Raje, the elder of Chatrapati Shivaji.
His life is filled with getting separated from those he loved, being stabbed in the back by those he trusted, being in Agra jail at a young age of 9, travelling from Mathura to Raigad along with strangers in a disguise, having a mental breakdown and going to Moghals, the pain of letting his second wife and sister getting caught by Moghals because of him, his own peopl plotting his death, he being blamed for his father's death, last but not the least, his painful torturous death.
I read the entire book as if its a movie going on in my head but could not imagine the movie towards the end.
Such is the torture given to Sambhaji Raje by Aurangzeb.
औरंगजेबाचया पाच लाख फौजेशीसलग आठ वरषे कडवी झुंज देणारा मराठयांचा दुसरा छतरपती,जयाने वयाचया बततिसावया वरषी कराल काळाचया वेदीवरआपले मसतक दिले;पण शिवरायांचया हिंदवी सवराजयातीलएकही महततवपूरण किललाकिंवा आपलया आरमारातील एकही जहाज गमावले नाही!गेली सववातीनशे वरषे या विचारी,कवी-राजयकरतयाची आणि पराकरमी सेनानीची गाथासंशयाचया धडपयामधये गुंडाळून ठेवली गेली होती.!!! जय जिजाऊ , जय शिवाजी , जय संभाजी !!!
औरंगजेबाच्या पाच लाख फौजेशीसलग आठ वर्षे कडवी झुंज देणारा मराठयांचा दुसरा छत्रपती,ज्याने वयाच्या बत्तिसाव्या वर्षी कराल काळाच्या वेदीवरआपले मस्तक दिले;पण शिवरायांच्या हिंदवी स्वराज्यातीलएकही महत्त्वपूर्ण किल्लाकिंवा आपल्या आरमारातील एकही जहाज गमावले नाही!गेली सव्वातीनशे वर्षे या विचारी,कवी-राज्यकर्त्याची आणि पराक्रमी सेनानीची गाथासंशयाच्या धडप्यामध्ये गुंडाळून ठेवली गेली होती.!!! जय जिजाऊ , जय शिवाजी , जय संभाजी !!!
The character of Sambhaji Raje has always been controversial in the history due to the different rumours about him. This book puts an end to these rumours. It is a very well compiled book. The story of a prince who was overshadowed by his father's greatness to certain extent, who fought against all pain to maintain his self-respect and received an extremely painful death in the end after being betrayed by his own people. Strong character, good author and a great book!
one of the best book written on SHAMBHU RAJA................it tells about other side of shambhaji ............at end of the book you realize he is nor great as his father SHIVAJI...but he is far more brave compare to any personality in the world......i think therefore book title is CHAVVA(lion's cub)
this book draw the true picture of that time, how muslim rulers treat hindus was tragic. reading this book is like drinking patriotic notion.
One of the best books written on the life of Chhatrapati Sambhaji. Worth reading in Marathi language.
that was really painful when that king died like that .......... i literally cried when i read that ...... book was really awesome and best ....... "sambhaji maharaj ki jay"
Its a mindblowing novel
its good book
Its a very inspirational book.
This is very good book written on one of the great King of India Sambhaji.
its a great story of a great maratha warrior.
It's greatest king of maratha battalion
i wont to readt this book
dsadasdfas
how to read it?
e
after reading this book I realised he was far braver than shivaji... must read
hiiiii
no
Greater warier at all time
