https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368593.The_4_Hour_Workweek
Then add a dash of narcissistic personality disorder to get an idea of the tone of this book.This book is one in a series of books lately -- including Rich Dad, Poor Dad -- that damns the middle class for a lack of imagination as demonstrated by showing up for work every day and upholding the social contract, among other things.
It's hard to imagine an attitude further from the Renaissance concept of virtu than this.The part of the book that I greatly enjoyed concerned "time management" and gave valuable tips on how not to be such a fucking patsy at work.
Apparently, as long as no one realizes what useless timewaster you >used< to be, Ferris thinks it is perfectly acceptable to use this new found time to your own ends, as long as no one catches on.According to Ferris, we should all use methods to arbitrage the actual productivity of others - such as email friends and colleagues for information rather than finding it ourselves, despite the fact he also espouses avoiding all such requests from others, getting them to 'channel' their communications into forms that you can either ignore or answer as quickly as possible, preferably through an executive assistant.
I guess he's saying that if you really want to drive a fancy car, then make that your priority, and then when you can afford to lease it, you'll be happy.
I'm hoping that would then teach you that maybe a car is not the most important thing in your life and you might want to spend your $2500 a month on rent, food, health insurance and the like.
So you don't have to live in Borneo in order to drive your new car.Reading this book made me realize that I already have a life that involves meaningful work, setting my own schedule, and choosing whatever projects I want to do.
The raspy paper DID, however, have just the right stuff to be 'ripped and rolled' into some really effective starter wicks in the old fireplace.
Very little smoke produced and it left a good, clean ash.The pages and binding that remained sat limply and dejected by the hearth for much of the evening before inspiration struck once again.
I tore the front cover off (I am reluctant to burn colored ink in my fireplace -- call me old-fashioned) and ripped it into some smaller pieces to fold and wedge into a drafty window to help keep it closed.
Since I already heard Ferriss' insecure egocentricity on full display during his Long Now talk, I came to this book expecting a self-obsessed hustler to peddle his "you-too-can-be-like-me" vision.
"Does not fulfill potential" was scribbled across all of my report cards, which led me to rebel against my teachers and parents even more, all the while internalizing the basic notion that I was letting people down.Like Ferriss, I knew that I didn't want to define my life by others' expectations.
But unlike Ferriss, during my 20s I came to a deep appreciation of the satisfaction that can come from participating in a community that isn't defined by hierarchical structures or individual achievements.
Let ME save YOU a few hours.1.
You're a game changer and a rule breaker.2.
Quit checking your fucking email and get off the computer.
No, seriously.
Outsource everything--even your soul.
4. Retire, vacation, go mobile.5.
Tim Ferriss is an ass.Questions?Ryan: Hey Tim, I work in a pickle factory in Poland and have a minimal education, how do I make the above program work for me?Tim: *head explodes*Seriously, some simple ideas are in here that can probably help you get things done faster and think about how you spend your time.
But Tim Ferriss is still an ass.
Tim Ferriss, the 30-year-old author of this book, posits an entirely different worldview and a straightforward plan for achieving living it - set up automatic profit centers, and take "mini retirements" throughout your life (which he does, and explains in fun and interesting detail.
He gives you not just the theory, but the web addresses and the exact plan for setting up your own online business and "mini-retirement-lifestyle."It's interesting to look at the negative reviews of this book.
Tim does a great job pointing out how backwards that idea is, and gives lots of suggestions for how to change your life to accommodate.
Tim gives a lot of good tips for time management - which aren't unique, but every time you read them helps you.
The ones that stuck out for me were:  - only check email 3 times a day at set intervals - outsource everything you can to 3rd parties (like a virtual concierge in India who works for $5/hr) - batch activities like paying bills for max efficiency - give employees autonomous rules/guidelines - avoid meetings whenever possible - use emails instead (works wonders)5.
Ferriss has some good ideas and goals, there is one word that describes why, I am not a fan of this book: Scumbaggery.While I totally agree with Tim Ferriss, when he says that most meetings are useless and should be avoided, I cannot agree with his recommendation of making up excuses and lies, in order to leave early or not show up.
The book has good ideas but is ultimately written for people without scruples of any kind.The author brags about winning a martial arts contest by bending the rules.
The book that changed my life a few years ago. My aim was to be location independent, after a number of businesses and investments that tied me to one place. 5 years later, I am location independent and a full-time author-entrepreneur. This book helped me see it was possible.
This book appeals to people who are working in dead end jobs that are hellish to say the least, and offers a way out to people who have lost hope.
Something tells me he's never had to deal with anything like a mortgage or the a home foreclosure.I saw him on the Today Show once with Donny Deutsch who vehemently disagreed with everything this guy had to say.
Read this book if you think your life is totally in the toilet and you have no other recourse.
I am always interested in life-hacks that can make work more productive and leave more time for leisure so this book grabbed my attention. Little did I know that reading it would feel like listening to a confessional from someone who will leave no corner uncut. If you have no qualms about out-sourcing work and under-paying people to do it, then this book may be for you. If not--and you have no anthropological interest in the delusional contours of petty bourgeois entrepreneurial capitalism at the dawn of the 21st century--then avoid at all costs.
Later on the book, Ferris gives his strategies for outsourcing his phone calls/emails and avoiding all but absolutely necessary calls.
He claims that you can get a week's worth of work done in less than a quarter of time, but the only solid suggestions I gleaned were 1)check email less often 2) don't multitask, and 3) avoid meetings like the plague.
Good tips, but they won't bring you down to a four hour work week unless you were absolutely hopeless before.So it's worth reading once for the tips, and I do intend to avoid multitasking and check email less, as he suggests.
Ugh. There are a few nuggets here, but digging for them is arduous. Because of the mild distaste I experienced reading the book, I took the time (wasted no doubt, in this lexicon) to count quotes. There are plenty. 92 from men, 7 from women, 2 from fictional characters (1 each Yoda and Calvin: note, males) 2 inanimate objects (1 each Fortune Cookie and AT&T), 1 Chinese Proverb, and 1 from an Italian rap group.Guybonics. And tomfoolery. If you must waste time, don't do it reading this book.
Call me a cliché.
A surprised cliché—because I really didn’t expect to join the cadre of readers whose lives were challenged and even changed by this book.
But what I wasn’t expecting was a call to reevaluate my life, my work, and my direction.
I read it at just the right time, when I was shifting focus on projects anyway and ready for an overhaul.
I filled up pages of notes reading the opening chapters and ended up with actionable daily, weekly, and yearly goals.
Call me clichéd again: I highly recommend this book.
So, I'd recommend following the advise he offers for being more efficient and less plugged in, but not necessarily making it known you're doing so unless you're forced into a corner.The other part of the book espousing the benefits of Direct Marketing are much like the ideas of Rich Dad/Poor Dad for real estate - cute ideas, and I truly believe they will work for some, but not everyone has what it takes to get in on these 'get-rich-quick' ideas at the right time.
As opposed to Guy Kawasaki who might actually give instructions, and most likely will inspire, Tim Ferriss is so insecure about himself that he has to talk about his own dance skills before he gets into the meat of the book.
Once they say yes (because that's just SO easy for everyone apparently), then you stop actually delivering results because now you're working from home, you outsource all your tasks to do (yes he really tells you to outsource ALL your job work), you travel to countries where the dollar is quite strong, and then in your spare time on a beach lagoon you create a product that can sell.
is this some kind of prerequisite to publishing a business book?)-and I’m sorry to tell you there are also self-help action plans at the end of every chapterBut my friends, it is WORTH it.
And although Ferris seems to miss the point that fulfillment can come from things other than international travel adventures (he mentions serving in charities abroad, but seems to overlook being kind to and serving the people around you), I still love this book.
“Less Is Not Laziness…: Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness.
The 4 Hour Work Week OR How My Life is Awesome, and Good Luck Replicating It - Even With My Quick and Easy Five Thousand TipsOne thing that really gets into the marrow of my funny bone is how often Tim makes reference to the Pareto Principle (or the 80/20 rule, which states 80% of your results come from 20% of your efforts, and applies to efficacy in many areas of life), and how this book is precisely that: 80% of it doesn’t apply to me (or most individuals) whatsoever, and the 20% that does Is facepalmingly obvious information.To do this as concisely as possible, I’m going to give you bullet points of the awfulness.•	80/20 Rule •	Find Experts•	Cut Corners•	Learn Stuff Fast By Spending Lots of Time and Money Leaving Your Job and Traveling Internationally and Soaking in Other Cultures.
One of the few books I have read more than once. Timothy Feriss does an excellent job of explaining the lifestyle and methods of the new rich. Not only that, but he provides web addresses, phone numbers, and more for manufacturers, drop shippers, and mentors. This is a life changing book for any person involved or interested in business.
An owner has people and systems do the work, while someone running a business is another cog in the machine.Ferriss advocates creating a product business that you can quickly scale through delegation and automation.
He says to eliminate all the unnecessary busyness that takes up most of our time, and focus on the tasks that actually matter.Ferriss certainly presents an extreme example of the New Rich lifestyle.
This book is still worth reading for the lessons about prioritization and time-management.Notes• DEAL: Define, Eliminate, Automate, Liberate.• People don’t want to be millionaires.
Don't waste time trying to accomplish things that don't help your bottom line 2.
"Batch" activities at one time to get them done faster (i.e. check email once a day maybe).
Otherwise, the messages in this book really weren't applicable to anyone in a caring, teaching, or hourly profession.
Maybe I wasn't the right audience?
I also am not going to spend every moment of my free time traveling the world just to accomplish brag-worthy feats instead of spending time with my family and friends (that was a pretty long chapter too), because that just seems sort of empty.
I figure, having been unemployed most of this year, I'd see if there were any suggestions in this book that I could actually apply into the kind of career I actually want to do.
It boils entirely down to outsource or eliminate anything you can, any way you can, handwaves at "creating" businesses with no actual, practical advice on how to determine a market need (which is the hardest part of any business: Figuring out what's needed in the first place!), and then spend lots of your time places where the exchange rate makes you comparatively rich.Not even worth free.
The 4 hour work week basically means automating and delegating task as much as possible.
This would give you enough freedom to start a new business.Another amazing insight of the book helps you escape the 5-9 routine.
You show up on day third and show how significantly you have been productive at home, then you propose a trial of 2 weeks to remote-work 2 days a week.
By proving your productivity, you will gain a full-time remote work.
I highly recommend this book if you seek more freedom and aspire to run your own business.
Although this book has its obvious flaws, namely:1.
Author is an ivy league entrepreneur (of course he's not worried about money).2.
Many of his "time-saving" work tips have no relevance in many fields of work.
The Get-Rich-Quick internet start-up company info.
Seems to me the author made a quick buck peddling supplements over the internet...
I would suggest taking a panning-for-gold approach to this book.
There are plenty of great tips/tricks to freeing up some personal time for yourself or learning to be more efficient at work.
Even if you only come away with a few nuggets of great information the purchase is well worth it.
Many of my friends have read this book and my friend Alex kept talking it up, so I picked it up.Very few books have really changed the way I envision how I am going to live my life.
Though Rich Dad introduced me to the concept of owning assets that pay you to free your time, 4-hour workweek dispels a lot of myths about the need to make millions to live the life that we all dream about.
In actuality, its a lot closer than we all realize.Everyone should read this book.
Get the book, it will deliver a message you should really chew on.
One of the best books out there for breaking you out of the routine way of THINKING about your job, even if some of the model suggestions are a bit preposterous for a non-entrepreneur. Very inspiring!
For example, Ferriss spends a couple chapters bragging about how he never answers a phone call from a number he doesn't recognize and trains his assistants to respond to all his emails as if it's really him replying.
That's all great (maybe?) if you run a large company and have other people to answer the phone or write your emails.
A few things I did like - the 80/20 rule - that generally 80% of effects come from 20% of the causes (example - 20% of your customers might be responsible for 80% of your sales).
He then gives advice about "paraphrasing and combining points from several books," borrowing from the public domain, and/or compensating some other "expert." This way, you don't need to be bothered to actually learn anything, which brings me to step #2.2.
Outsource everything -- including your brain -- to a 3rd World Country: He hires virtual assistants in various 3rd World Countries, especially India, who are then given fabulous access to all of his personal information to the point they can pretend to be him and make all of his personal and business decisions.
Combine this then with such other practical advice as setting up automated revenue streams in your life as much as possible (which like I said can be interpreted pessimistically if you want, but could also mean something as innocent and creative as iPhone apps and Etsy stores), and it's easy to see why this has become the big hot book in the last couple of years among the perpetual millions who dream of "Zero Management (TM)," "Income Autopilot (TM)," "Mini-Retirement (TM)" lives.
