https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159806.The_Silver_Branch
(By now, the Roman Empire has become a Tetrarchy).Justin is immediately befriended by a red-headed soldier named Flavius—who turns out to be his cousin, Marcellus Flavius Aquila, direct descendant of Marcus from The Eagle of the Ninth.
But when Justin and Flavius witness an apparent act of treachery by Carausius’ minister of finance, Allectus, the world as they know it is upended.
This book is less adventurous and more warlike than its predecessor, The Eagle of the Ninth, but its characters are just as lovable, its familial relationships and friendships are just as strong, its mysteries are just as alluring, and its inner sense of moral integrity cannot be argued with.
An oldie set in yet more olden days. My friend Allison basically said I hadn't lived until I read the book, so I was definitely going in with some high expectations. I really enjoyed the story, though I disliked some of the violence... I could picture it too well. I'm definitely impressed with Sutcliff's talent for description!
Flavius and Justin didn't have a single clear goal for most of the book--and I totally get WHY that is, they were kicked out of the only life they knew (the Roman legions) and they're sort of lost and they're wandering around seeking a new purpose--but I just prefer a more focused plot for this type of book.
(Like Eagle of the Ninth, where the goal is very simple and very clear.) Also, I will say, the story is much more strictly "military," in events and setting and so on, than the other Sutcliff books I've read; EOTN is about the IDEA of the Legions, but in TSB we're actually getting into the nitty-gritty of life and everyday business within the Roman army.
Magnificently, shiningly glorious.
It's very noticeable, after reading a few of Rosemary Sutcliff's books in close succession, how her protagonists are never the 'strong' ones.
And here, the protagonist is an anxious, sickly surgeon (he wasn't healthy enough to be a soldier) with a stutter that gets worse when he's nervous.It makes a change.
And it also makes sense, reading the author bio of Sutcliff at the end of the novel which highlights the fact she was in a wheelchair for most of her life, affected by Still's disease.I've spent most of my life hale and healthy, until recently.
I could go on for ages and ages about what I love about each of the heroes, but I'll focus on just a few prominent things - though be assured there are many more than these.I love Flavius and Justin's character qualities - their incredible strength, goodness, commitment, loyalty, sense of duty, kindness, leadership, and courage.
I love this book's depiction of courage throughout, and it's one of my many favorite things about the characters and themes of The Silver Branch.
To me, thought they are fictional, they represent real people throughout history and the world who have risked their lives to faithfully fight for what is right and true in the face of great danger and evil.
Srebrna grana je vrlo solidan istorijski roman za decu koji se bavi onim istorijskim trenutkom kad se Rimsko carstvo već malo ljulja ali još nije počelo sasvim da se raspada (tako, treći vek).
Pripovedanje utoliko jeste malo zahtevnije za današnju decu ali npr.
Pre mene ga je čitao neko ko je usput pravio dve vrste zabeleški: grafitnom i hemijskom olovkom.
fusnota hemijskom, s etimologijom.
Na kraju poglavlja istorijska beleška o Karausiju preko celog praznog prostora, sitno ispisanih pola strane :) Razumem da to drugima smeta, meni je bilo drago i simpatično i sve vreme sam imala utisak da mi preko ramena knjigu čita neko poput mog razrednog (istoričara, normalno) iz gimnazije :)
The books are stand-alone action stories, but when you fall in love with an author, her plot and characters, you don't want to waste any time in finding out what happens next; even if it is several generations later.Cleanliness: the word "h*ll" is used twice.
The Roman gods are referenced and prayed to a few times.*Note: I listened to the audio version of this book so this Cleanliness Report is not as thoroughly detailed as other reports are.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
Intriguing story and style, amazing characters (ahh, my BABIES, Y'ALL), and definitely got my heart going. Another fantastic Sutcliff story!
Up until very recently I was unaware that Eagle of the Ninth, one of my all-time favorite Sutcliff books had a sequel.
This book is a bit different from most of Sutcliff's though, in that it arguably has two main characters.Justin (Tiberius Lucius Justinianus) has just been posted to Roman Britain as a surgeon to the Eagles who are supporting Carausius, the self-styled Emperor of Britain.
And, as it further turns out, they are both descendants of Marcus Flavius Aquila, of Eagle of the Ninth fame (YAY!).This being a Sutcliff novel, naturally they run into quite a bit of trouble.
I cannot quite tell if this ties with "The Eagle of the Ninth" or comes in as a close second, but either way, it is a wonderful story. As with "The Eagle of the Ninth," Sutcliff has an amazing knack for showing emotion in the little things of the story, and for sweeping the reader off to yesteryear. Justin and Flavius are spectacular, and the smattering of lesser characters are each unique - Evicatos of the Spear, Aunt Honoria, Centurian Anthonius, Cullen the Fool, Paulinus, and, larger than life, Carausius.
To top things off, when Roman naval commander Marcus Aurelius Carausius learned that Emperor Maximian was going to execute him for corruption, he escaped to Britain with his army and declared himself Emperor of Britain and Gaul.Tiberius Lucius Justinianus (aka Justin), a junior surgeon, walks into this mess in A.D. 292 when he is assigned to the Second Legion in Britannia while Emperor Carausius is still ruling.
When the cousins learn that Maximian's co-emperor, Constantius, is going to invade Britain, they recruit a motley army, which becomes the Lost Legion, and join him when he lands.I love Roman history and Sutcliff's descriptions of how the Romans and native Britons lived bring the period to life.
Well, the annoying thing about this book was the spoilers contained in the blurb, two on the back cover and another one on the page inside the front cover, giving away two major turning points in the book and effectively telling us something that doesn't happen until the last act, though it is the point the book has been building up to.
Anyway, The Silver branch, sequel to Eagle Of The Ninth, set a generation later, recounts the adventures of Justin and Flavius, young Roman officers posted to Britain where Carausias has proclaimed himself Emperor.
Officially a sequel to The Eagle of the Ninth, but it stands on its own and takes place years later with a new generation of characters. It's shorter and feels a bit rushed to me - it doesn't take as much time up front to establish the world and set the scene - though some readers may prefer that it's more focused on plot. Maybe only 3.5 stars, but still a good read, and points because it's such an interesting time and place in history.
Ketika mrk mengetahui bhw Alectus mencoba mengkhianati Kaisar Carausius (kaisar buronan Romawi yg mengangkat dirinya sbg penguasa Inggris), mrk malah dimutasi ke daerah perbatasan.Ternyata Alectus benar2 melakukan makar thd Carausius.
Justin dan Flavius batal menyeberang dan memilih mengkonsolidasikan di dalam negeri dgn menggalang kekuatan utk melawan Alectus.
Maka perang gerilya dan perekrutan dilakukan dgn tekun oleh dua saudara ini, hingga datangnya pasukan dari Romawi, perang besar tidak terelakkan lagi.
Sang Elang- lambang pasukan Romawi berhasil ditemukan lagi dan digunakam sbg simbol pembangkit semangat perang.
Kesetiaan terhadap Kaisar sbg penguasa utama ditonjolkan dgn baik, sampai rela mengorbankan nyawa demi negara.
Sekuel ini masih menawarkan tema persahabatan seperti buku sebelumnya.
Saat Kaisar Roma di Inggris yang mereka hormati di gulingkan penasehatnya Allectus yang sewenang-wenang, dua pemuda ini berusaha untuk menyelamatkan rakyat dengan cara yang paling sederhana yang mereka pahami.
Masalahnya buku ini lagi-lagi menghabiskan hampir 3/4 buku untuk menceritakan tentang tahap persiapan mereka untuk bergabung dengan Kaisar Constantius untuk melucuti Allectus.Proses mengumpulkan pasukan "compang camping" dan penemuan kembali Elang ke-9 yang di sembunyikan di buku 1 penuh kejutan.
Elang compang camping yang hilang untuk perlambang perjuangan terakhir penuh harga diri para lelaki yang mengalami kehancuran, tersisih dan buronan.Perang akhir oleh pasukan yang tak dipandang sebelah mata ini epik dan juga mengharukan.
Justin's relationship with his father felt very real to me, too.
The historical details are gorgeous too - the Christian soldier testing out Justin and Flavius with the fish drawing stood out in particular.
It's not heavy handed, it's not 'Oh, look at how much I know about this period!', it's just utterly, utterly immersive.In most books with nigh-impossible tasks to be achieved, you can be pretty sure the heroes will win through somehow, but with Sutcliff you can never be sure (The Shining Company, for example).
But they still try, and that is my kind of hero.
I have fond memories of reading Sutcliff back when I was in my early teens.
Nostalgia doesn't always serve me well, though, so I wasn't sure what I was going to find when I read this book.
I was not disappointed.I'll let others describe the book; here I'll describe my reaction to it.
I don't know why I associate Sutcliff's work with Young Adult; perhaps it's because that's when I read her.
Maybe it's because her books have such a strong element of adventure in them.
Whatever the reason, I heartily recommend her books to any teenager of today.
When Justin, an army surgeon, and his soldier cousin, Flavius, discover a plot against their British emperor Carausius, they are forced to go into hiding.
As with every piece of Romano-British historical fiction of Sutcliff's which I have read, though definitely with twists of her own added, the author brings the setting to life in such a captivating way as to make that ancient time as real to the reader as the chair in which he sits.
While some may be irked to have no more of Marcus and Esca and Cottia from the previous book The Eagle of the Ninth, Justin and Flavius are excellent characters in their own right, two sides of the same coin, living characters against a very lively backdrop.
It's a solid good history fiction book about as good as the first of the series.
It may even be read as a stand alone although the reader will be kinda wondering what is the lost eagle's story but this adds to the mystery.
Mystery and the unexpected is something missing in the book coming to think of it.
You immediately know the good guys and the bad ones(seriously, the hero sees a guy killing a bug and immediately understands he's a very evil guy and his main opponent).
You also know the outcome because, duh, it's history.
It must be 20 years since I last reread this childhood favorite. I still love it and so appreciate Sutcliff's treating her readers as intelligent beings. It made me feel good as a tween to be considered a reader who didn't need to be talked down to--who knew who Euripides was and what a pilum was used for. Sutcliff once wrote that her books were for children from 9 to 90. Ave, Rosemary, your 62 year old child salutes you!
Really enjoyed this book. Some similarities between this and the first, such as unusual friendship between the Roman occupiers and the locals, made it a little less fresh, but then I did read them one after the other. Again it felt authentic, and does , as the forward says, have real historical context. Makes me want to find out more about this period in history.
i read the indonesian-translation one. wether the translation one similar or not, i'm preety sure this book truly awesome. its proves that even people in the past aren't always 'jahiliyah'--unknowledgeable. they have their own sitcon. in this case, justin and flavius certainly against allectus the traitor.for short, i love this book
A Rosemary Sutcliff book that didn't make me weep and weep and weep.This was a boy's adventure story (not meaning for boys, just about boys), reminiscent of books I've read about the Underground Railroad or people smuggling Jews out of Nazi Germany, only set in ancient Britain.
A good read, with characters that you care about, and historical detail that is just enough to set the scene. Some lovely descriptions and snippets of detail scattered through the book. Possibly showing its age a little now, as I felt it read a little slow despite having plenty of action. This didn't stop me from reading, and probably enhanced my enjoyment of the details.The characters are well drawn, and she weaves in parts of 'The Eagle' book providing a sense of continuity. Lots of strange characters developed from small historical facts, which I found interesting.
This well-written Young Adult novel is set in late third-century Britain and is based on actual events. It centers on two young Romans named Flavius and Justin, who are coincidentally posted to the same fort and then discover that they are distantly related. The battles are depicted fairly realistically, for a YA book, but there are also moments of humor and genuine friendship among the main characters.(This is a sequel to The Eagle of the Ninth and the second volume of the Roman Britain trilogy.)
This book fits in between The Eagle of the Ninth and The Lantern Bearers -- about 100+ years on each side. I'm very loyal to Sutcliff, but this is not her best work. It has many of the same familiar elements (primeval natural setting, plot tracing the struggle to hold onto a humane civilization amid the power struggle of tyranny and anarchy) but the storyline doesn't have quite the emotional depth of something like Lantern Bearers or the utter magic of Flame-Colored Tafetta. It's overall a little too glibly symmetrical.
My six-year-old thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I found the stuttering main character distracting and annoying.
The stutter served zero point in the plot.
make sure there is a book out there where the main character stutters?
Also the anti-slavery ideals distracting.
I would have preferred a historically accurate book.
I don't understand why it's necessary to make the main character more in line with todays sensibilities than just allow slavery to be part of the world of the past.
All in all, I would still read this book to my son if I had it to do over again.
Another well written installment in thus series. I'll admit that quite a bit if the subtle action bits were lost on me because I kind of rushed through this one a little because I was eager to begin rereading The Thief by MWT. However, it's obviously a classic worth a reread and I suspect I'll enjoy it more the second time around.
+ 52 "It was a raw morning with the mist lying low and heavy like smoke among the brown heather, and the rooty tang of bog and the bitter-sweetness of sodden bracken hanging in the air."p136 exultation
