https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1084275.Jo_of_the_Chalet_School
Another fun read of an old favourite. There's lots of nostalgia to love here - an impossibly old-fashioned Austrian Christmas, romantic descriptions of the Tyrol and exploits and adventures without an online selfie posting in sight. School magazines are set up and Shakespeare gets sent up. More Girls Own magic.
В прошлом томе все устраивались и организовывались, в этом дело пошло еще веселее. Главу про Рождество в Иннсбруке вообще можно издавать отдельной книжкой с иллюстрациями, она совершенно чудесная.
Published in 1926, this volume reflects a time when upper middle class girls' education wasn't taken all that seriously.
School terms are extremely elastic; on more than one occasion headmistress Madge considers breaking up for vacation nearly a month early, and any excuse seems a good one.
Someone may have told Brent-Dyer that the first volume was a bit bland; there are enough hair-breadth 'scapes of one type or another in this one to satisfy the most demanding reader of school stories!
Is this supposed to be a "normal" name for an American girl of the 1920s?
In addition a nativity play is staged just before the Christmas break and everyone gets involved in making that an excellent production, which pleases Madge immensely.All the time the girls, usually outside of the hearing of Madge and just among themselves, use slang in their speech but Madge overhears it.
In addition there is a little romance between a couple of the teachers and it all transfers itself to the reader as the various terms at the Chalet School wind down to another summer holiday when the girls repair to their various homes to recharge their batteries and prepare themselves for future adventures when they return.'Jo of the Chalet School' is a jolly hockey sticks type of tale, absolutely topping and top drawer and definitely not in the least bit beastly ...
This is ne of the treasures I found in a second-hand children's bookshop Hay-on-Wye when i was there recently – a third edition of ‘Jo of the Chalet School’ by Elinor M Brent-Dyer, published in 1936, with illustrated bookplates intact.
This is the second book in the famous series about a girls’ school in the Austrian Tyrol, but was the first one I ever read.
Brent-Dyer wrote 59 books in the series in total, and they are the longest-surviving series of girls’ school stories every published, having been continuously in print for more than 70 years.
Jo of introduces a number of new ideas that EBD does not really use in other non-Chalet books: hobbies club, Shakespeariana, St Bernard dogs, a nativity play, etc.
The much-lauded Christmas scenes also help to introduce her readers to another facet of continental life.
Like its predecessor, it is made up of a series of short scenes and events rather than attempting to follow one or two characters through the course of the book.
Of course, having so few characters means that almost all of them get at least a few key scenes across the title.
Robin makes her first appearance at the Chalet School, and headmistress Madge, who is Jo's sister, gets engaged to Dr. Jem Russell of the nearby TB sanitarium ("The San"). Not the most compelling of the Chalet School series, but you need to read it for background for the subsequent books.
Such lovely tosh. Surely in real life the Chalet School would have shut down by the end of this book, yet another accident making it uninsurable.
I can't give these books anything less than 5 stars. Adorable and of a time. Gruss gott!! Loved the Shakespearean slang and new character the Robin.
Review - Jo of the Chalet School - Second book of the series and second for me too.
I found this book needs a different kind of mindset to enjoy compared to Enid Blyton school stories.
Enid Blyton school stories usually have a central conflict that grabs the reader by collar and drags them along.
I found even the one book of Angela Brazil I read had that probably even stronger than in Enid Blyton books.
The Chalet school doesn't have that.
It reads more like real life in a different place and time - nothing too dramatic as such.
I can't remember how long ago I first read this but it planted something ineffable in my head, and it's very strange actually that not only have I never been to Innsbruck at Christmas, I've never even been to Austria.The rest of the book is a necessary read because it lays down a lot of information for later in the series.
And it's certainly not uninteresting.I shall say this just the once but I think it's probably very applicable to the rest of the series, especially the pre-war books.This was written over 90 years ago and shouldn't be read unthinkingly with a 21st century PoV.
There's very little to say about the early Chalet School books other than to rhapsodise over how awfully lovely they are.
There is everything in this series inside that moment; the earnest belief in ones abilities, the knowledge that Jo is a skinigallee (sp, naturally), and the glorious innocence that characterises so much about these early books.
What makes this series so glorious in its early days is this sense of greatness about it.
At this point, the universe is fresh and refreshing, filled with some of the characters who will stay with the series through over 50 books - many of them at their most winning and human.Jo Of The Chalet School, in particular, is a joy - a world centred firmly around these schoolgirls and their mistresses, as they navigate cold, hard winters and grey, swirling floods.
It's a delightful account of the Bettanys' first Christmas in the Tyrol, and proof again that the series is at its best in combining the school story with the heart and weight of family.
Correct The autumn term sees adventures of all kinds - a flood that threatens the school I think you'll find this happens in the EASTER term and the dramatic rescue of an unwanted St Bernard puppy.
Although we don't actually witness the rescue, do we?
Finally Joey, Robin and Madge spend a delightful Christmas at Innsbruck.
'Finally'?
No, this happens halfway through the book, before the flood.
Pick up my copy (which consists entirely of loose pages because I've read it so often) and put the pages back in the wrong order?There's not actually a great deal to put into a review of 'Jo of', except a huge health warning: if you have finished this one, and really enjoyed it, watch out!
I liked this much more than the first one so I'm so glad I persisted.
I'm getting really attached to the students, especially Joey (who I consider the main character at this point).
I still wish most of the adventures would take place within the school and revolve around school activities but I really enjoyed the girls' Christmas spent with a host family nonetheless.
At this point I'm considering this an adventure series, not a school series, and reading it as such.
A bit frustrated as I really wanted a meaty school series but trying to take it as it comes.
Fancy seeing this old series here :-) Do children still read books like this..? Well, I loved these books anyway! Jo is such a sweet heroine. It is probably wildly politically incorrect nowadays though.. But the "wisdom" from the Chalet school series helped me fit in later when I started boarding school. Don't brag, don't whinge and don't gossip too much. Thank you Elinor Brent Dyer, lol!
Second in the lengthy series about a girls' boarding school in Austria. This book particularly features 13-year-old Joey, sister of the school Head. She makes new friends, becomes editor of a magazine, learns to ski, and even discovers what her future career is likely to be. Much more interesting than the average school story for teenagers, even if it does seem a little dated in places. So enjoyable to read the hardback again, after only having a paperback version for many years.
Rather smudgy typeface; perhaps not reset since the first printing?!Both charming; and nowadays, positively funny. Take the singing class under the tutelage of Mr Denny (later christened by the girls ‘Plato’) for example. “ ‘That went well. Now if the tiny maiden” – he indicated the Robin again – ‘will bring me the first song, we will ask this next little elf to distribute these!’ ” (p.103).
Robin is introduced in this book, and she's featured in a lot of the following books. She's a six year old, the baby of the school, placed there because her father had to go to Russia for business. She quickly becomes everybody's darling because of her sweet temperament.Lots of fun in this book, from going skiing, Christmas celebrations in a foreign country, and a big surprise for Madge at the end!
I liked this just as much as the first one. I especially liked the descriptions of Christmas in Innsbruck. Joey's 'Elsie' book and the Shakespearean slang made me laugh. Oh and I now want a St Bernard puppy! (although my cats wouldn't be impressed)I need to try and find an unabridged The Princess of the Chalet School now :\
The second Chalet School book - the school's students continue to increase in number, and there's a terrible flood. Plus, a puppy, as you can see from the cover. Joey continues to be a delicate little flower who collapses in a serious fever whenever a breeze brushes against her the wrong way.
I'd forgotten Robin popped up so early. I was never really that keen on her - or Jo, for that matter!
i love this book and i think it is one of my fav. chalet school books as my family have 60 out of 62 books of the chalet school! i definitely recommend and i love the robin and Rufus the pup!
This is the second book in the chalet girl series. A very enjoyable book and one of my favourites.
lovely series of books for girls
