https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11963935-cool-air
Creepy cool reading!  FREEZING HORROR This tale is about the peculiar friendship......between a cranky person and a medical doctor,......shaped up after the latter saved the life of the former. Set in an era way before of any modern air conditioning system,......the doctor is obssessed on developing ways to keep quite chilly his apartment.
I say ‘touches on’ since Cool Air is neither a story of low-temperature preservation for the sake of future resuscitation nor is it about voiceless, emotionless blank-faced corpses brought back to life, however, quite strangely and quizzically, what happens is a close fictional cousin to both.The tale begins when our young narrator takes up residence on the third floor in a four-story brownstone on West 14th Street in downtown Manhattan and tells us, “You ask me to explain why I am afraid of a draught of cool air; why I shiver more than others upon entering a cold room, and seem nauseated and repelled when the chill of evening creeps through the heat of a mild autumn day.
Moreover, although short in length and narrow in its range of effects, it is a very good horror story as well.It is a tale told by a tenant of an old NYC brownstone, who wishes to explain to his listener why he loathes the touch of cool air.
He tells of an ancient tenant who once lived upstairs: Dr. Munoz, who was irrationally afraid of death, and kept himself cool (56 degrees F.) with a self-designed air-cooling system powered by a gas engine.
One night, the gas engine goes on the fritz, and hideous consequences ensue.This minor is close to perfection.
Howard: fraudio#3: 1* Brain Child by John Saul: fraudio#4: 3* Domain (Rats #3) by James Herbert: fraudio#5: 3* The Mourning Vessels by Peter Luther: paperback#6: 2* The Doom of the Great City: ebook short-story#7: 5* Long After Midnight by Ray Bradbury: fraudio#8: 5* The Dead Zone by Stephen King: fraudio#9: CR The Chalice: hardback#10: WL Seven Gothic Tales#11: 4* Tales of Men and Ghosts: gutenberg#12: 2* Shattered by Dean Koontz: fraudio#13: 5* The Dunwich Horror: e-book: gutenberg#14: 4* Death At Intervals: paperback#15: 3* Alone: gutenberg#16: 3* The Shunned House: gutenberg#17: 4* The Thing on the Doorstep#18: 2* Shadows by Saul: fraudio#19: CR Precious Cargo: paperback#20: 2* The Magicians of the Golden Dawn: ebook#21: 2* The Book of Black Magic#22: 4* Beyond the Wall of Sleep#23: 3* The Haunting of Hill House#24: 2* Inferno#25: 4* Monkey's Paw#26: 4* The Pit and the Pendulum#27: 3* William Wilson#28: 4* The Moonlit Road and Other Stories#29: 3* The Black Cat#30: 4* The Cask of Amontillado#31: 4* The Tell-Tale Heart#32: 3* The Devil Rides Out#33: 3* The Omen (I, II, and III)#34: 3* Cool Air
After a heart attack, the narrator comes to the doctor for help.
He doesn't look right and 'the abnormal always excites aversion, distrust, and fear'.The doctor's apartment is cold and he is very interested in death.
Dr. Muñoz uses cold to stay alive and whole, but he also doesn't laugh at 'incantations of the mediaevalist' because he believes he can find helpful formulae in them.
While watching the doctor's decline, the narrator soon begins to realize the truth behind his bizarre behaviour.
Forced by circumstances to take lodging in a cheap rooming house, the narrator is delighted to discover that one of his neighbors is a well-educated doctor - a man of 'quality,' even if he's a bit eccentric. The most obvious oddity is that he's a recluse, never leaving his rented rooms - and he keeps those rooms air-conditioned to a shockingly low temperature. However, it will eventually be revealed that there was a reason for his 'madness.'
I don't know if I can say much about the story without spoiling it. The last few words left me disturbed, because I spent many words getting to know this guy, and his strange dependence on cool air.
Simplemente Lovecraft, es un relato que está exquisitamente escrito y que no te deja indiferente, me habían dicho varias veces que lo leyera, pero sí, tendría que haberlo hecho antes.
Suffice to say, I do believe Lovecraft(ian) stories are best read when going in cold (pardon the weak pun) without knowing anything about the tale and what strange twists or happenings will ultimately happen.
I did so with several others from Lovecraft and did so with "Cool Air" as well.
"Cool Air" is no exception.
"Cool Air" concerns a reclusive doctor who lives in very cold room and must maintain these temperatures.
I couldn't imagine how the public would have reacted to this story in Lovecraft's time.
This short work really sticks in my mind. There is the regular unusual happening with the added plus of yet another zinger at the end. I might be remembering it so well because I also enjoyed the "Cool Air" episode of "Night Gallery."
I am strongly reminded of Poe's "The facts in the case of M. Valdemar."Physician, heal thyself, I say. I may have trouble with air-conditioned doctor's offices after this.I hadn't realized that Randolph Carter appears in so many of Lovecraft's stories. That man is truly unlucky!
there a man had this idea in his mind in 1923 !
i love this kind of fantastic horror , because it depends in mind , ideas and difference ..
and that what make the good story .
this short one tell about man has arrive to new York , learns that a reclusive doctor lives in the apartment above his owns , he had a heart attack so he go to the doctor and soon become friends and more he spend time with him more he discovery a horrifying truth about him .
this story is good ."It is a mistake to fancy that horror is associated inextricably with darkness, silence, and solitude.
I found it in the glare of mid-afternoon, in the clangour of a metropolis, and in the teeming midst of a shabby and commonplace rooming-house with a prosaic landlady and two stalwart men by my side."Supernatural horror in the everyday humdrum … it is somehow twice as hair-raising, spine-tingling and blood-curdling, innit?
“Cool Air” from 1926 is both typical and atypical of Lovecraft: it contains zero references to forbidden grimoires, extraterrestrial deities, and all that jiggly jazz.
Stock elements or lack thereof aside, “Cool Air” features on this list quite simply because it is a delightful piece of spooky fiction, easy to read and easy to get.
Segundo cuento que leo de este autor, y pensé que con este tendría mas suerte porque me gusto bastante el inicio de la historia.Pero el desarrollo fue bastante predecible al igual que el final. No me sorprendió para nada.
I quite liked this story, perhaps because it reminded me strongly of Edgar Allen Poe. The reveal towards the end didn't surprise me, probably because I've read and seen so much horror, that the behaviors of Munoz immediately pointed towards his condition. Despite my anticipation, this story packs a nice solid punch, and maintains a genuine creepiness.
Good story of a man trying to preserve himself using willpower and refrigeration. Yet nothing is perfect.
it was very cool, the ending was unexpected, I though a little about it while reading but wao it was a great lite reading
I found it in the glare of mid-afternoon, in the clangour of a metropolis, and in the teeming midst of a shabby and commonplace rooming-house with a prosaic landlady and two stalwart men by my side."Forced by diminished circumstance to rent a cheap apartment in New York, our narrator is pleased to discover his upstairs neighbor is a person of quality - educated, but eccentric.
By means of chemical and mechanical devices, along with sheer will, the doctor claims to have battled the very forces of death.
But one day the system breaks, the temperature rises, and mind can no longer win the battle with matter.
На четвертому поверсі прибуткового будинку, яким володіє місіс Герреро, живе доктор Муньйоз.
На вигляд він старий і хворобливий.
Більше того, він блідий як смерть.
В своїй квартирі штучним способом він постійно підтримує низьку температуру, начебто через певну хворобу, яка не дозволяє йому переносити високі температури.
(view spoiler)[Його сусіда, який живе під ним, дуже цікавлять розповіді доктора про досліди з метою продовження свого віку.
Коли ж сусід прийшов з ремонтниками, то усвідомив, що Муньйоз зайшов занадто далеко зі штучним продовження життя - вісімнадцять років підтримуючи тіло у формі після своєї смерті.
(hide spoiler)]
I begin my study on Lovecraft.
This seemed like the most logical place to start: early but not too early.Competent ghost story not unlike Victorian weird fiction.
HIGHLY incompetent dialogue to the point that I cannot help but wonder if Lovecraft has ever actually spoken to another human.
Contains some explicitly racist caricature of Spanish accents, which only adds to the genuine awfulness of the dialogue.
FORTUNATELY most of the conversions are reduced to summary, otherwise the piece would have been insufferable.
There was perhaps only one scene at the very end, the rest was summary.
An all together OKAY ghost story.Unambitious, but okay.
Good story until you stop to think about it. *spoiler* How is he dead then? If he can still think and move, is his heart just not beating, cells not moving? Then how does he move? I understand also that it was kind of a spin/tribute to an Arthur Machen story and some other guy around that time, so it wasn't even that original. It was alright though except for the Spanish racism at the beginning.
This would work better as SF than horror, as the horror element seems a bit of a stretch to me. As an SF story about going to extreme lengths to preserve one's existence, it's fairly interesting. It's unclear to me why this is so horrific to the narrator. Odd and extreme, sure. Not really horrific, imo.
what a messed up little story. gripping at the start middle and finish, the contemporary lovecraft story. once again this lacks any tentacles or cosmic horror but is ripe with exuberant writing and perfect flow from a less than the usual crazy narrator
The horrible Lovecraftian imagery is tuned down a bit to give way to the acrid smell of ammonia. An interesting reading experience, this strong stimulus complementing Lovecraft’s usual palette of the mad scientist.
Great story. I would recommend this book to those who want to start reading Lovecraft but don’t know where and how to do that. Many recommend Dagon but having starter with Dagon myself, I’d definitely choose this one as my introduction to Lovecraft. Again, to each their own :)
I can see why Stephen King rates HP Lovecraft
Still my favorite HP Lovecraft story. I remember being blown away at how ahead of it's time this story was. This could easily have been an X-Files episode.
A great book to read for those into horror. I loved it!
неплохая реализация идеи про зомби-врача.
(view spoiler)[Necromancy (hide spoiler)] via cryogenics. Not bad, but not my favorite subject either.
