https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282447.The_Revolt_of_the_Masses
The more I re-read it, the more I'm convinced that Ortega's ideas are still applicable, even though the book came out in 1930.
Instead, Ortega's mass-man was supremely self-centered, threatened by greater intellect or knowledge, refinement, superior skill, etc.
He has no common sense.' The mass-man isn't content to wallow in pop culture and kitsch (and who doesn't love a good wallow?), but he feels compelled to ridicule anyone who might enjoy high culture.
The downside of this book is that one goes away from it with the sense that the situatuion Ortega describes isn't going to get better.
[Like in my other Spanish reviews, the English translation is below. This review should be more or less free of errors, since I asked someone to help me with it, but if anyone finds a mistake feel free to let me know!] «El espacio y el tiempo físicos son lo absolutamente estúpido del universo.» La rebelión de las masas es probablemente la obra de filosofía más conocida de España. Pero no lo he leído solo por eso. Lo he leído porque—como dejaré claro—este libro vuelve a ser ahora quizás tan relev
El mundo es ahora tan rico que las masas pueden olvidar la lucha que ha sido necesaria, los hombres que han dedicado sus vidas para mejorar el mundo, y han olvidado cuán difícil, frágil, y reciente es la civilización contemporánea.En opinión de Ortega, los movimientos más característicos de las masas son el fascismo y el comunismo.
(If a foreigner like me can understand it, it can’t be very hard.) For him, it’s very important to know your audience; and his audience was the educated public, not specialists in philosophy.Following Ortega, there are always two types of men: the mass-man and the excellent minority.
This promotion of democracy, capitalism, and science had risen the historic level of Western European society to a domineering height; yet the resultant modernized civilization it created was a state of affairs taken for granted by the mass-man, the coarse majority who passed their days oblivious of their obligation to society even as they demanded of it every right, who reveled in low-culture and the selfish pursuit of pleasure whilst scorning any who attempted to stand out from the crowd through excellence in thought, duty, or deed.
You know, the kind of people you see everyday, that feel confident in their ignorance and seek to stomp out any viewpoint that diverges from their safe fantasy world.
You know, the majority of the American population that can only see the pseudo-dichotomies of "democrat" and "republican" or "liberal" and "conservative." A great example everyday of the typical mass-minded individual are those people that refuse to watch a film with subtitles and/or that is in black/white.
If Jose Ortega y Gasset were to see the world now, he would unfortunately realize the world has gotten a lot worse than he could have ever imagined.
weighted with history, of its time, of eurocentric heritage, rather elitist conception of values, character, action, that possibly i can sometimes agree with, particularly his concept of 'mass-man'.
a sense of history is helpful yes, but so is invention, novelty, the new...i am not myself convinced that any elite is necessarily more moral than the so-called 'mass-man'...
this book is history- spain, europe, of 85 years past- and it is interesting to read how a thoughtful man weaned in the 19th century, was seeing the 20th...
However, Ortega rejects this and finds that it would be best to "[build] Europe into a great national State" as the only way Bolshevism could be counteracted.
In doing so, Europeans could establish a new form of Europe-wide morality, although he problematically seems to think of Slavs as not-Europeans (pitting a "Slavonic" code against a European code, and a Slavically-coded Bolshevik project against a more universalist European project).Above all, Ortega seems almost to represent the pinnacle of progressivism.
Although he finds it necessary to look to the past to root oneself in history, he rejects the insularity of nationalism, the specter of Communism, and the violence of fascism.
These are the select men, the nobles, the only ones who are active and not merely reactive, for whom life is a perpetual striving, an incessant course of training.- [Author: Jose Ortega y Gasset], [Book: The Revolt of the Masses] (pp.
65-66)In my reading of The Revolt of the Masses I would emphasize Ortega y Gasset's discussion of the new world (circa 1930) as one of "practically limitless possibilities".(p 61) This is a view that he contrasts with the past where the masses felt themselves limited, and rightly so.
Even in western democracies we have seen the power of the state grow over the past eighty years since Ortega y Gasset's observations.
If you think we live in a world of "us and thems" and enjoy spitting in the air and letting the spit land in your own face, then this book is for you.

«Es, sencillamente, que el mundo, de repente, ha crecido, y con él y en él la vida».Como bien se comenta en la introducción, este libro debe leerse sin detenerse; sin analizar cada afirmación.
«La única manera de comprender filosóficamente este libro es leerlo en continuidad e integridad, como si fuese una novela —aunque sea más que una novela—, dejándose impregnar por su evidencia, siguiendo el flujo de su argumento.
Me faltó sentirlo.Considero que para poder leer "La rebelión de las masas", el lector debe darse cuenta del mundo en el cual vive, y entender su funcionamiento para comparar dos realidades: la suya y la del autor.
Everything in the world is strange and marvelous to well-open eyes.""That man is intellectually of the mass who, in face of any problem, is satisfied with thinking the first thing he finds in his head.
On the contrary, the excellent man is he who contemns what he finds in his mind without previous effort, and only accepts as worthy of him what is still far above him and what requires a further effort in order to be reached."Also, cutting:"The psychological structure of this new type of mass-man...is as follows: (1) An inborn, root-impression that life is easy, plentiful, without any grave limitations; consequently, each average man finds within himself a sensation of power and triumph which, (2) invites him to stand up for himself as he is, to look upon his moral and intellectual endowment as excellent, complete.
It is this metaphysical hesitancy which gives to everything living its unmistakable character of tremulous vibration." (78)'Tremulous vibration...' oh, that's nice."History has brought out into the foreground the conflicts and, in general, the politics, always the last soil on which the seed of unity springs up; but whilst the fighting was going on in one field, on a hundred others there was trading with the enemy, an exchange of ideas and forms of art and articles of faith.
For the most part this book does not live up to it's reputation.
Gasset covers a too-diffuse mélange of miscellaneous European historical and social topics.
The edges and handles of Gasset's discussion are all very slippery and rubbery, it's really an old-school set of rather vague aesthetic essays the kind bohemians used to enjoy on the Left Bank of the Seine during the age of the Fin de siècle.
Gasset poses a kind of 'metaphysical' problem which has no ready solution.
This dampness is not at all indicated by the glowing blurbs and ebullient raves on the book's cover.
A wonderful social critique by Gasset. With chapter titles such as "the barbarism of 'specialization'" and "the greatest danger, the state" you know your in conservative country. But the chapter called "the self-satisfied age" is wonderful. It warns what happens to the middle classes when they become spoiled and entitled. In short, they become barbarians. A prophetic book. Let's hope our country isn't too far gone!!
For me this book will always be called "How I learned to stop worrying and love the Elitists!"Seriously, this book goes a long way in describing the chasm between intellectuals and the masses and why, despite the fact that the masses are an overpowering steam roller, it is admirable to deny the urge to follow.
Ortega wants “nobility” to mean not nobility of blood, but to restore the meaning of “noble” as “well-known, that is, known by everyone, famous, he who has made himself known by excelling the anonymous mass.” Anyone can do this, from any walk of life, but few do, human nature being what it is.Having gotten definitions out of the way, Ortega’s first substantive point is that in the past, the mass was content to exist in the background, ceding to the minority such higher-level societal functions as art, government and political judgment.
A book that it's prone to misunderstandings (especially with Americans, which is further proof that the USA is a paradise for the masses), yet incredibly relevant to the current age - a historical period not separate from the one Ortega y Gasset originally talked about, in which the same phenomenon thrives.
Worth reading not just for the main thesis, but for all of the philosophical underpinnings.This is a summary that does not in no way do justice to the depth of the book but nevertheless: The central thesis is clearly posed in the title – the rise of the masses .
And ‘when the mass acts on its own, it does so only in one way, for it has no other: it lynches.
But I've got a lot more affinity for Ortega's more rigorous philosophical ideas than his political and cultural criticism, which has a shorter shelf life.
It's interesting to see him apply his ideas to real issues, but it's also discouraging to see some of his positions become either dated (it was published in 1930) or fairly common opinions.
We've now got a ton of books on mass culture and theories of 20th century decline (which don't have as many wince-inducing uses of "Man" or references to "primitive" or "childish" cultures, etc) -- and if we're still ringing basically the same alarm bells 80 years later, after so much has changed, I have to really wonder about the urgency, accuracy, and actionability of the analysis.

Ortega's talking within the context of the decadence of Europe in the early 20th century but a lot of his points of view still say a lot about today's world.
When I read the first few chapters I thought I was exempt to having the mass man mindset, but by the end I was made aware that I was just as much a part of the masses as any one else (the particular turning point was the chapter on specialization being a form of barbarism).
Brilliantly and unashamedly elitist. Y Gasset defines the dichotomy between the mass-man & the man of culture but within the context of the modern world. In doing so he throws up some strange paradoxes; the mass-man may be educated, a lowly person may have the character of a noble. Plenty of citable material & lots of insights. The flow may not be the best & some of his theories are questionable. The strength of the book is in how he comes to grips with many puzzling phenomena.
Жить - значит выходить за пределы себя самого, другими словами, осуществляться. Жизненная программа, которой неизбежно является каждый, воздействует на обстоятельства, согласуя их с собой. Подобное единство драматического динамизма между обоими элементами - "я" и миром - и есть жизнь.
De 19e eeuw en het begin van de volgende eeuw betekenden een enorme verandering voor Europa.
Democratische hervormingen zorgden voor algemeen stemrecht, maar vele intellectuelen maakten zich tot in het interbellum zorgen over de impact op cultuur en politiek.
José Ortega y Gassett is met dit boek een van de prominenten.
Vrede en welvaart werden vanzelfsprekend.De schrijver keert zich ook tegen de Europese naties, die hij niet als eeuwig beschouwt, maar als kneedbaar en in de lijn der geschiedenis op hoger niveau wenst te tillen.
Vandaar zijn ambitie om de Europese cultuur ook om te smeden tot een Europese natie.
There it is, colossal, astride our times like a giant, a cosmic note of interrogation, always of uncertain shape, with something in it of the guillotine or the gallows, but also with something that strives to round itself into a triumphal arch.  A powerfully interesting and challenging book. Gasset's essential thesis is that the mass man, the man whose intellectual life ends in the solipsistic horizon of his own manufactured self, has taken over the direction of (European) society. His self is
This gives rise, Gasset believes, to the historically regressive (or, at least, historically negative) movements of soviet bolshevism and European fascism, which seek to negate the advances of liberal democracy, not, he believes, to move beyond it.Obviously, much of Gasset's thought has strains of the emerging European existentialism of his time, and they inform his distinction between the mass man (the creature of inherited thoughts, opinions, and values) against a man of the minority (one who takes his responsibility for his own thought and existence).
Vzrušujúca kniha. Najmä tým, ako uz medzi vojnami Ortega opísal masu davov, dnes ľahko prirovnatelnu k masovej voličskej základni. Druhý fajn aspekt je autorova vízia zjednotenej Európy.
According to author this was going to cost dearly to Europe (and hence humankind, as is implied).A small excerpt from the book - "It is serious enough that this doubt as to the rule over the world, hitherto held by Europe, should have demoralised the other nations, except those who by reason of their youth are still in theirpre-history.
No doubt, if such are the important thinkers we witnessed such barbaric century.And not only in terms of content but in form also, even though it is small, the book drags and bores.
Ortega y Gasset is popular again in some circles--it makes sense that he, and "The Revolt of the Masses" in particular, is since his analysis of the social and political order in 1930 seems so incisive today.
Dynamic is a different story since that term denotes movement and, possibly depending on the context, forward or upward movement; not many would describe the social order of pre-World War I Europe in that way.Ortega y Gasset didn't think much of the ragged end of modernity but he would have loved literary modernism, I don't know if he wrote anything on the archpriests of modernism, Elliot and Pound but we know from Elliot's letters that he was aware of the Spaniard, who would have (and may have) loved "The Waste Land".
Ortega y Gasset precisely predicts many events and changes that happened throught the XX century.The book is divided in two main subjects, the "mass-man" and the European so called decadence towards the rest of the world, and according to him this things are intertwined.
Altough, what the author defend and predicts is different form the actual European Union, since he defends the plurality of the members, something that is sadly being slowly supressed to achieve the so called integration.To conclude, The Revolt of the Masses is a very real book that needs to be readed.
Published in 1932, the author (1885-1955), a Spanish philosopher and intellectual leader of the Spanish Republican government, charts a dismal picture of Western civilization in the 20th century.
Against the backdrop of the overthrow of Old World civilization, the author, a Spanish philosopher, describes the Revolt of the Masses.
"Mass man," the principal representative of the modern superstate, is an inert, unthinking being hostile to the finer creations of aristocratic culture and easy prey for demagogues of every political persuasion.
We are all "mass men." This book is a compelling starting point in any inquiry into the cultural decline of modern civilization.
I found it a bit difficult to follow at times, but that never made me want to stop reading it, as once you get what Gasset's saying, you're compelled to read on and see what he'll talk about next and how everything will tie together.
Gasset mainly deals with the "mass-man" manufactured from the social, philosophical, and political conditions of the 19th century.
He then goes on to discuss the rise of bolshevism and fascism as it was in time of his writing in the early 20th century.
If you're at all interested in political philosophy, I heartily recommend this book.
