https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9192467-your-faith-is-your-fortune
This was the first book by Neville that I read. It was recommended by Robert Tennyson Stevens, who is a great teacher of ancient knowledge/modern wisdom. This book was life-changing, thus the 5-star rating with is reserved only for books that at that level. Read it and it will light a fire in your belly that will never go out. Way before there was a "self-help" and spiritual movement, there was Neville, one of the sources of it all.
To him the Bible is a psychological drama that is mystically revealing the consciousness of man...yawn, yawn, yawn... And the Kabbalah of it all! Not my cup of it. Kabbalah doesn't appeal to me.
It contains some excellent pointers and scriptural interpretations related to the idea that 'consciousness' or 'awareness' is all (and God).
HOWEVER, this knowledge is then distorted due to the influence of "New Thought", which exhorts readers to then go about and "manifest your desire".
If the reader had truly realized his/herself as just consciousness or pure awareness, wouldn't that also exclude the use of 'desire' and any apparent individual who had 'needs' to manifest?
Recommended as probably one of the better "new thought" type books one could find.
Love this book. It is a metaphysical interpretation of the bible. If you are among the ones who believe that there is a silver thread of common spiritual truth among all religions, and you like thinkers who offer these kinds of broader perspectives, you'll like this. Neville offers that the bible was never meant to be taken literally, but instead that it is a symbolic/mystical psychodrama that serves to teach higher universal truths.
Best Book Written In The Entire WorldThis book is everything!!! It left me speechless several times. Everything I thought I knew has been clarified. In other words, I didn't really know anything but now I have more understanding. Wow! Just wow!
Tops all previous works of Neville Goddard I've read so far.By far the most powerful and eye opening work of Neville Goddard I've been guided to read. So much so that at times I literally had to put it down and walk away just to digest it. I understand and even teach co-creation process, but the metaphysical interpretations of Biblical passages that relate to the self really pull back the curtain even farther. If you want to really feel truth, and you think you're ready, read this!
Uno de los mejores libros para entender a los autores del Nuevo Pensamiento, y las leyes mentales y espirituales, en el que se describe muy bien cómo 'sentir es el secreto'. Y añade: "La Fe de un hombre en Dios se mide por su confianza en sí mismo'.
Grow! Connect!Awesome read for anyone who wants to elevate and find peace within. Silence of the mind is key to connecting with God.
Tremendous BookNeville has such a gifted insight. I thoroughly enjoy his work. I am reading two other of his writings now.
Masterpiece.This book is concise,simple and straightforward that even the uninitiated can fully grasp its deep teaching and apply it to any area of life.
This book is a game changer This book cost me $1.99 on kindle and it’s had the most profound effect on my life. It’ll literally make the hair on your arms stand up.
I required a couple reads to digest this information. Abstract and perhaps outdated. Struggled to relate but appreciate the premise.
In other words, 'If you judge after appearances, you will continue to be enslaved by the evidence of your senses' and that if you ''go to the end of that which you seek; witness the happy end of it by consciously feeling you express and possess that which you desire to express and possess; and you, through faith, already understanding the end, will have confidence born of this knowledge.'There are 27 main topics of discussion in 'Your Faith is your Fortune' and each of these main topics connects directly to verses from Scripture.Due to the fact that I personally do not have extensive knowledge of the Bible I cannot say with any certainty how accurate each specific reference is, I can only say that Neville's interpretation's do seem realistic and well thought out.
3.5 stars
In this little book Neville expounds the same valuable truths as usual - imagine your wish fulfilled and you will obtain your desires.
I.e. while in a meditative state visualize your desires and feel the feelings you would feel were your desires actually fulfilled.He sees the Bible as "a great psychological drama with all of its characters and actions as the personified qualities and attributes of his own consciousness" and amongst other things interprets Jesus' twelve disciples as representing "the twelve qualities of mind which can be controlled and disciplined by man."If you are not particularly religiously inclined, the frequent references to the Bible may be somewhat offputting.
But there is no denying the inherent truth of Neville's message.
I'm a big fan of Neville's, and the book "Power of Awareness" is one of my favorite books of all-time. This book wasn't quite as well done for me as that one. "Your Faith is Your Fortune" started out slow, I wondered if I'd even get through it at points. There was many areas that were exceptional within as well, but this read was a bit uneven for me leading to the 4 star rating.
This book came to me at the exact time I needed to read it. It is awesome and hits the nail right on the head. It definitely has aided my life's journey if not described what I deeply wanted it to be and has aided it's transformation.
I AM...a huge advocate of Neville's work...No man or woman will ever think the same after this book has been read and digested. The Wise One once said... this book will bring about a resurrection. Enough said...Enjoy!!!
I love this book because understanding of the spiritual laws, and how important it is to remain Faith to your desire. This book is the golden key.. I love this book so much I bought the ebook and the hard copy and audio formats thank you again amazon
It was gooda little wordy and confusing at times in the way things were presented, but enlightening as well. I've read better, but for the price, with it.
Read several short books by Goddard simultaneously and was impressed with his consistent and clear analysis of the true/hidden meaning of Biblical scripture.
gritty
Terrific! I absolutely love reading Neville Goddard's books so this is no surprise. I am so grateful for the affordability of such vast knowledge. Very impactful.
Loved this book!I like the way he uses Bible verses and shows a different way of seeing biblical events.
I've read this book 3 or 4 times now. I really never stop reading it.
