https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/750035.The_Dollhouse_Murders
"Poor Becky," she thought, "she is going to have to meet her maker someday, hopefully sooner than later (as Becky was seriously starting to cramp her Lisa Frank sticker collecting, and unicorn drawing at this point)." It really was too bad...Becky should have learned to read faster and then she would know what the dolls were capable off, and then they could have worked together to move the dollhouse into their brother's room.
In the end, the book was finished and the sister lived...but Johanna could never shake the uneasy feeling she felt every time she encountered a dollhouse.
But more than just delicious chills imbues The Dollhouse Murders.Amy Treloar, nearly 13 years old, can’t help resent her 11-year-old brain-damaged sister Louann.
In the old house, Amy spies the long-forgotten dollhouse Claire had as a child, an exact replica of the old family home and a gift to Claire from her grandparents, Amy’s great-grandparents.
[The orphaned 14-year-old Claire and her 5-year-old brother, Paul (Amy’s father), had gone to live with their grandparents when their parents died.] Aunt Claire had little use for such a gift when she got it as a 15th birthday present and doesn’t appreciate the dollhouse any better as an adult.Soon Amy notices that the dolls in the dollhouse — replicas of the Treloar family of Claire’s teens, grandparents, Claire and young Paul — move when they’re alone and seem to be trying to send Amy a message.
I first picked up The Dollhouse Murders a little around five years ago, when I was a kid.
I read it, it chilled me, I moved to another city, and slowly I forgot the title.
Somedays the idea of the book came rushing back, and I was frustrated that I could not remember the title to reread it, at least, until I found the title in my brother's book order.
The Dollhouse Murders is about a girl named Amy who moves in with her aunt to try and escape some stress at home.
Even still, five years later, when I reread The Dollhouse Muders it chilled me.
Scholastic is BRILLIANT for keeping this amazingly bad cover.
This was the sort of cover I would have taped paper over when I was little just like I always did when I read THE WITCHES and any Bruce Coville where an adult was taking off their human face to reveal an alien one beneath.
All and all not a bad story and certainly freaked the begeebees out of this 28-year-old at one point.
THE ENDING!
I don't care how good a murder mystery is.
Without a good ending what's the point?
I used to love this book when I was a kid, and for a middle-grade fiction novel is really deals with serious issues in a surprisingly in-depth and understanding way. The main character is a young girl left looking after her sister who suffers from brain damage, and things only get more intense when the dollhouse comes into the picture.
But I checked out the book anyway.Fortunately, the copy my library had was the original 1983 hardback.
I can be a little bit of a book snob, and The Dollhouse Murders clearly wasn't going to be “my thing.” What more can I say?
Taking into consideration the intended juvenile audience, The Dollhouse Murders presents an interesting cast of characters, as well as a story that is chilling and riveting.
Though The Dollhouse Murders was certainly little more than juvenile escapist lit, it was a very entertaining read.Also a plus, the original author photo:BAM!
I love books about miniature people, and don't have any in my own collection.
After getting accused by her aunt of continuing to place the dolls in certain positions within the dollhouse that brings back bad memories for her, it is revealed to her that the mother and father were murdered while her aunt was out on a date, and the young boy was spared because he hid in a woodbox.
As is true with all miniature fiction stories, the people don't go insane when they learn that dolls move and talk!
I LOVED this book, but somehow had forgotten all about it until I saw someone's review on here. I remember that I had an intense reaction to the conclusion of the story, feeling like I had been punched in the stomach. I don't even really remember what happened, just that the dolls moved around and revealed who the real killer was. Perfect way to creep oneself out before bed!
An entertaining mystery for the YA/Middle Grade reader. Somehow I missed this one when I was growing up. It's better than most novels written for young people. The ghost stuff is well done and it has the added element of a young girl becoming a teenager and resenting all the babysitting she has to do for her disabled sister. Highly recommended.
Aunt Clare actually lives in Chicago, has lost her job, and is back at the house to go through things to get it ready to be sold.Clare is more than willing to take in Amy. She needed the help cleaning the place and getting things ready to go.
The miniature furniture is incredibly accurate to the furniture in the house, right down to the needlework on the cushions of the chairs.Amy is enthralled and can't understand why Aunt Clare gets so hostile when it comes to the dollhouse.
Such a wonderful book for young readers. It covers some critical growing up topics and has a light mystery. The book centers around family and friends and what it means to be a friend and the importance of family. The eerie dollhouse and years unsolved mystery makes this a very intriguing story.
Amy becomes so upset that she runs to her Aunt Clare, who is currently staying in Amy's great-grandparents house.Aunt Clare can tell something upset Amy and when Amy tells her what's wrong, Aunt Clare gets the idea of letting Amy staying with her for awhile.
You can also feel Amy's happiness when Aunt Clare invites her to stay for awhile.As I read more and more, I got wrapped up in the mystery of the dollhouse, the mystery of what happened to Amy's great-grandparents.
It was probably the book that started my love with all things paranormal.12-year-old Amy struggles to make friends as she is often called upon to take care of her 11-year-old developmentally disabled sister Louann.
While staying with Aunt Clare, Amy comes to terms with the mix of emotions she feels toward Louann and helps solve the mystery of her great-grandparents murder.While I still love the plot, it is obvious this book is not written in the current era, not because of any dated clothing descriptions or even lack of computers and cell phones, but due to the vernacular used to describe Louann.
This was definitely a welcomed trip own memory lane!!
The story of Amy really stood out to me, especially regarding the complicated relationship she had with her sister, Louann.
I remember feeling that same guilt Amy did as a child regarding my own special needs sister and trying to navigate my own identity while also trying to spare the feelings of someone who is a bit different.
I loved how the author was able to tie these sentiments into an early adolescent murder mystery for preteens.
This is like a cozy mystery starter kit for kids!
I remember reading this as a little girl and I love it now just as much as I loved it then! I would definitely recommend this for adolescents to read. It is a murder mystery/coming of age story all rolled up in one.
It starts off with a girl, Amy, who has a mom a dad and a sister, Louannn, who thinks she is annoying.
Amy finds the old doll house full of mysteries.
One day Amy's mom drops off her sister Louann, at the old mansion.
One day the three girls are making cookies and the aunt tells them about the night her mom and dad were killed.
I like this book because I like mystery my favorite part was when they were making the cookies and she told them the story of the night the Aunt's Mom and Dad were killed.
This was one of my favorite mysteries when I was a kid (my copy had a different cover), and I'm glad to see the story holds up even now that I'm much older!
I loved the murder mystery, loved the family secrets, and drama.
We all know someone like Louann, and we look on people we know like Louann's family and think to ourselves, "How on earth do they do it??" I thought the struggles between Amy, Louann, and their mom were very realistic and very well plotted out...
and of course you can't help but cheer when Amy finally finds a friend in Aunt Clare.
Clare is strong and independent...
Wow, how books have changed in the past 20 years. No one would publish a 120 page book for 9-12 year olds like this anymore. Murder, hauntings, guilt, uptight parents, crazy mood swings - I read this kind of stuff when I was younger and didn't become a serial killer so why are some parents today so worried about letting kids read this kind of thing?
Oh Scholastic, you knew how to get me to part with my hard earned allowance. Scary books dealing with dolls coming to life was a pretty common theme in the 80's. This book scared the CRAP out of me the first time around, and I recently found it used for super cheap and it still kind of gave me the creeps. Behind the Attic Wall trumps Dollhouse Murders but barely.
Finished this old school creepy book the other night to recommend as hey its copyright 1983 but its on my shelves, its Halloween and I haven’t read it yet I was super curious LOL..Okay so the story of Amy and her life with her mildly retarded sister Louann which in itself is a powerful topic for a novel at the time however there is something bigger at play than Amy’s growing resentment towards her sister’s outbursts and need for constant attention.
With Amy losing friends and needing time away from babysitting she decides to run away to her great grandmother’s house where her aunt is cleaning out for sale.
I read this book as a child and decided I'd like to revisit my past. I chose to listen to the audio book this time which I enjoyed. It was fun hearing the narrator change her voice for each character. I realized instantly that I didn't remember the story line at all, which made it a mystery til the very end. Definitely written for kids, but easily enjoyable. I also watched the 1992 movie which was totally budget friendly but entertaining enough. It also followed the book to a T, so that was cool
One of my favorite childhood mysteries. Still just as good now as it was when I first read it. Slightly dated of course, but still a great read.
Amy decides to live in her Aunt's country house for while, her curiosity lead her to the attic and she discovers a pretty, valuable dollhouse. She adores it as much as anyone who would have this in sight. But little does she know, the dollhouse along with the dolls hides a deep secret from her Aunt that she wouldn't tell...
The Dollhouse Murders is equal parts "Mystery that you aren't meant to collect little clues and solve on your own before Sherlock does" and ham-fisted, saccharin "everyone is important, so love for all." Amy lives with her mother, father, and her developmentally disabled sister Louann.
Amy is 12 year-old and is sick of having to take care of Louann.
Clare invites Amy to stay over for awhile, to get her some time away from Louann.
As Clare is going through all the stuff, Amy finds a dollhouse.
Amy's small sister Louann has a mental disorder and Amy has to take care of her most of the time, because both of their parents work the whole day.
When Amy is really sick of her responsibility and has a big fight about Louann with her parents, mostly her mum, her aunt Claire takes Amy under her wings and suggests that Amy could live with her for some time.
The only problem is that Amy's mum doesn't really get along with Claire, but Amy's father makes it possible for her to stay with her aunt for some time.
And, okay, I'm in my 30s now and I was STILL a little creeped out lying in my bed in the dark after finishing it.
What can I say, I'm a wimp (though, reading through the other reviews, this seems to be pretty common!).Anyway, the book still holds up pretty well, though it definitely has the feel of an early-'80s Scholastic paperback (and if you read a lot of those you probably know what I mean).
I'm not sure I really appreciated that part as a kid, but I definitely did this time around.
This book about a young girl named Amy, who upon having a argument with her mom over her sister Louann, which is brain-damaged, runs to her aunts house and is invited to stay awhile.
Upon staying there she finds a dollhouse, which is an exact replica of the house her aunt lives in now.
Later that night just before supper, she remembers she forgot to close the dollhouse and goes to close it, only to realize one doll has moved from where she left it.
There are some drawbacks to the book, but that might be because like Amy I have a "special" sibling and I hate how she treats her sister Louann.
I read this way back in early grade school- it was one of my first introductions to horror along with the Goosebumps books, and made me fall in love with the genre (also might have contributed to my fear of dolls it's fine).
It randomly crossed my mind today and I thought I'd give it a read for nostalgia's sake.
The book dealt with some darker/more grown up themes than I remembered, but it's perfect for upper grade/middle school readers still.
A little too short in my opinion (the ending really sneaks up on you fast), but it's a perfect length for a quick YA read.
The Dollhouse Murders stands up well as a good mystery, decades after its first printing.
Betty Ren Wright has done a commendable job on constructing a different sort of mystery story that is successfully multi-dimensional in its thrust.
I think that the temptation in many such stories is to focus almost exclusively on the eerieness of the supernatural events that occur, but The Dollhouse Murders stands tall on several more levels.
Ultimately, I think that this story succeeds for what it is, a tale that is equal parts family drama and supernatural murder mystery.
I have always enjoyed this offbeat story.
The Dollhouse Murders was one of my absolute favorite books as a kid. My love of spooky stuff almost completely stems from this, and it still creeped me out as an adult! It was a pleasure to revisit it after so many years.
