https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68429.The_Well_of_Ascension
I can't handle how amazing this series is. Brandon Sanderson continues to overwhelm me with his impressive storytelling skills. Just like in The Final Empire, the world and the characters and the story were all beyond fantastic. There must be some kind of sorcery involved in how this man weaves together plot threads, because really.I can't say much more without spoilers, but if you have not yet read this series, READ IT. SERIOUSLY. READ IT.
I FINISHED THIS AGES AGO AND IT WAS AWESOME : here's my booktalk! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jMeGD...
Re-read on audio and just as awesome the second time! Vin is still my hero! ❤Holy son of a biscuit eater!!! THIS BOOK! I loved it, loved it, loved it! Sanderson tackled most of my feels in this book and YES I cried here and there but most of it was happy crying. My dog even looked at me like I was crazy when I was laughing and crying and yelling YES at certain parts. Vin landed softly on the damp cobblestones, watching as the mists began to form around her. They puffed into existence as darkness
I feel Elend figured the rest out on his own and I began to love his character later on in the book.
When Vin killed Straff (Elend and Zane's father) I was freaking out of my mind with joy!
Most of the beginning of the book is learning about Vin and Elend, trying to get them where they need to be, learning things from Sazed and Tindwyl, figuring out how to defeat the armies and not knowing where the atium was in the city.
I dread to see how else will die in the next book =(Oh, I forgot to mention how much I loved OreSeur (Vin's Kandra).
The overall book is a solid 4 stars bUT THE LAST 100 PAGES IS 5 STARS NO QUESTION OMG
And I mean, absolutely desperately boring, to the point where like TWO SCENES ever happened: Elend having long political discussions + Vin punching people.
I couldn't stand Vin and this breaks my heart because I used to adore her??• Elend was a small spot of interest.
It was tedious (for me) just reading about him continually being like "OMG I WANT WHAT'S BEST FOR THE POLITICS OMG WHY ARE THEY REJECTING ME".
Like let's discuss politics.
LiKE THE LIST GOES ON AND I'M SICK OF IT.• Why did the fight scenes have to be 9 chapters long??
4.5/5 starsA slow paced book containing an utterly powerful climax sequence; a spectacular middle book for the Mistborn trilogy.When I first read The Well of Ascension, my experience was that I thoroughly loved it.
The Well of Ascension at its core is a slow-paced book that’s very heavy on politics and making sure the characters’ motivation end up in the right set of mind before the final installment of the trilogy.
I know a lot of readers were bored because they found the first ¾ of the book too slow or uneven in pacing, which in a way is kind of true because it contained almost zero action sequences.
In fact, most of the time, my review is pretty much written by the time I finish the book, I just need to make slight alterations to account for any last minute goings on.And I like that, b/c your average fantasy is 2 - 3x longer than any other book.
it wasn't quite as drastic, but it had a greater impact on my overall reaction to the book.B/c initially, I didn't much like this one.We know from THE FINAL EMPIRE that the Well of Ascension is where the shit went down.
Please don’t hate me, but I just didn’t love this one as much as the first.
As someone else described, I think it suffered from “Middle Book syndrome”, and really that’s on me.
I almost always struggle with the middle installment of a trilogy, even if I 5 STAR Books 1 and 3.
There were things I loved, but it felt like the flow didn’t build as well in this one as before.
I adore that man and I love his development throughout as well as his struggle coming to grips with what he really believes.
Sorry in advance about the bad language but....WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK. Okay, everyone just read this series, okay? okay.
It felt like the closing chapter for these characters, but, in reality, it was only the beginning of the series.
Sanderson has disguised his novels; he made the story initially look basic, in which it harboured the same tired old plot with seen several times since  The Lord of the Rings.Then, he slowly reveals what is actually happening, and at the same time shocked me to the core.
This is such a great series that never fails to surprise me, as soon as I begin to predict the plot I should know that something else entirely is going to happen.
Such a thrilling sequel.
The losses are what define a man's faith.”...My soul was slain upon finishing this book, and I'm now writing this review from beyond the grave.You know what I did when I turned the last page of The Well of Ascension?
We follow Vin and Elend as they grapple with the ramifications of the first book.
I thought I liked Vin in the first book, but in here?
Her inner struggles, her insecurities, grief, and fears were relatable, and the way she overcame her struggles in this book made her one of my favorite characters in this story.
I truly love Vin.I'm also surprised with Elend's character development.
and then flipping through the last 20% like I was SO into the brilliant last bit that I ended the book thinking 5 STARS.
Buuuuut then I remembered that throughout most of the book I was more likeI don't want to say much about the plot that would spoil this book, but I'll still hide these few plot points in case people haven't read the first book: (view spoiler)[Elend is king now and Vin is busy trying to figure out who's the impostor in their midst.
And then THAT ENDING was all sorts ofBasically the last 10% was so amazing that I need to stop typing this now and go read the third book.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Not only their lives but their conversations, their internal struggles, their dietary preferences...the kind of clothes they like, on and on and on.I found myself slowly getting involved in the story but then we'd hit a spot where we had to go through an internal dialogue concerning doubts, paranoia...or possibly psychosis ("no one will ever stay with you, everyone will leave you".
I finely got "re-interested" about the end of part three as the story of the throne moved on and plots started to come to light only to get thrown back into (view spoiler)[ "Oh why did he have to see me burst that guy's head...boo hoo hoo.
I've enjoyed watching Elend go from an idealistic and weak nobleman to something much more.Vin is amazing as always and I loved how she struggled with being a Mistborn in this book.
Trying to understand her role in Elend's life and whether she's a good person with how often she has to kill assassins.I can’t wait to see where Sanderson takes the characters of Elend and Vin in the next book!The pacing was a bit slow in some places but I didn’t mind.
I can’t wait to go back to Luthadel and the Dominances.This book is just packed with TENSION?!!Rack up the T E N S I O N !
That was long.There was quite a time lapse between my reading of this one and the first one, which can be attributed solely to the length of these books.
I adored book one in this series.
It also left me with quite the book hangover in the form of the complete and utter devastation a reader only experiences when (don't click this if you haven't read book one yet.
It will wreck the utter wonder of that book for you.) (view spoiler)[I'm serious.(view spoiler)[Last chance.(view spoiler)[one of your favorite characters of ALL time gets killed off.
This book was...not very good. I absolutely loved the first book, it was sooo good! I still love the magical device he uses, but honestly this book did not live up to the first. The main character becomes pretty stupid, and the love interest was never that interesting. I will read the third book, but my hopes are not high.
The Well of Ascension was a beautiful follow-up to The Final Empire. There's so much going on now that it's difficult to speak on a lot of the specifics, so my review will focus on more general overview of what I enjoyed and what I didn't. Plot: The plot was by far the strongest point of the novel. I was just so engrossed in all of the political conversations happening here. I like my high fantasy heavy on the political intrigue with dashes of cunning & betrayal.Plus the last little bit of t
I like my high fantasy heavy on the political intrigue with dashes of cunning & betrayal.Plus the last little bit of this story just blew my fucking mind.
I feel like everyone else was static and that didn't really do much for my reading experience.I'm very glad though for all that Vin underwent in this novel because I really wasn't that fond of her in The Final Empire, and so this really helped me sympathize with and understand her as an individual.
The pace was just a little bit slow in some places for me.
“It's easy to believe in something when you win all the time...The losses are what define a man's faith.”  ― Brandon Sanderson, The Well of AscensionSanderson does it again. This book is absolutely amazing !!All in all, "The Well of Ascension" is an exciting sequel to "The Final Empire", full of what made the first book so compelling: a great cast of characters, amazing development, an eerily magical world and a thrilling storyline. I will definitely be reading the final book of the trilogy, "The Hero of Ages" as soon as possible.
This nearly destroyed me and I absolutely loved it.
See my full discussion (with GIFs :P) at www.priceiswong.com
The Well of Ascension is the 2nd installment of the famous Mistborn series and, as expected, it suffers from the middle book syndrome.
I enjoyed reading the new adventures of Vin and the crew but not as much as in The Final Empire.
The majority of the plot revolves around the siege of Luthadel by enemies and the planning to protect the city.
I missed Kelsier, I thought that his character was what made the first book shine but I loved Sazed and OreSeur in this one.
I also enjoyed the plot twist at the end and I can’t wait to read the final book in the trilogy.
ahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha i'm deadfucking deadcyagoodbyedeceasedcry at my funeralbye
I mean, we could be facing and immortal god and his all-powerful priests instead."They are still the witty, intelligent, compelling heroes we've always rooted for.Or are they?One of the several reasons I think this book is actually better than The Final Empire is that while that one focused primarily on Vin's character development and personal problems, this one expands upon the psyches of the entire cast.
Like all the characters in this book, Vin interacts with her world, and so her insecurities come not just from the fact that she doesn't know her place in it but also from the fact that others think they do.
AMAZING. I MAY FAIL SCHOOL BC OF THIS BOOK BUT HOLY SHIT IT WAS WORTH IT
This book goes something likes this:Elend and the group: Hey, we need to find a way to defeat these two armies, led by tyrants, who've come to conquer the city.Elend and the group:Yes, we should!
But first, let us talk about it for 500 pages.Anyway, I've read many reviews that mention this book is slow paced, but to even describe this book merely 'slow-paced' is a big understatement.
You keep thinking it's going to pick up, after all, it's 700 pages, so what if it's slow for the first 200, but no, it had to be slow for nearly 600 pages.
Nonetheless, I really liked how well everything ties up at the end.
'The Well of Ascension' genres are fantasy and sci-fi.'The Well of Ascension' is a very different book than The Final Empire but I am enjoyed reading it.This book has focused little bit Elend Venture, more insecurities of Vin and it has introduced a new character Zane.It is a stupendous sequel.I love this book so much Alhamdulillah!
I'm continually impressed with Brandon Sanderson, and I appreciate the subtle (at least to me) morality in his books.
As most people who read his books will know, Sanderson comes from a Mormon background, and I think this only enhances his ability and perspective as a writer.
The pace, magic, character development, etc., was all good, esp.
His characters are believable, the magic system continues to be impressive, and it is paced well.
I recommend the first two books of the Mistborn trilogy to anyone - whether or not you're a fantasy genre fan.
Unfortunately, that siege is a long, drawn out affair filled with pages and pages of characters sitting around and disagreeing about what to do, instead of the fast-paced, frenetic affair it could have been.It mostly reminded me of the stodgy, somewhat pretentious affair of Netflix's "The Crown," without the dramatic and powerful moments occurring with regularity that kept me invested in that experience.
What this book has working in its favor as always is Sanderson's creativity and ability to craft a world filled with cultures and religions that make it feel real.
“That's the point, isn't it? We have to live on, no matter how hard it gets. We'll win in the end.”   Rating: 4.5 stars I am just in love with this series. I am completely, utterly, irrevocably, in love with this world and this characters. Brandon Sanderson, you can do no wrong in my book. IT'S OFFICIAL. YOU ARE MY FAVE AUTHOR IN THE ENTIRE PLANET, UNIVERSE, GALAXY! I can gush on and on about how much I love this. I really can. But that won't really make this a review, won't it? So let's get o
ᵒ VIN(who I want to be when I grow up) ᵒ ELEND (the King who can't seem to stay away from books) ᵒ SAZED (the Terrisman who I definitely missed) ᵒ STRAFF VENTURE (someone I really want to kill) ᵒ ZANE (someone who I also want to kill) ᵒ BREEZE, DOCKSON, CLUBS, HAMMOND, SPOOK(from the original crew) ᵒ CETT (he wasn't as bad as Straff, imo) THOUGHTS ABOUT THE WELL OF ASCENSIONᵒ I AM OBSESSED WITH THIS WORLD.
ᵒ If you've read my review for The Final Empire, you'll probably know how much I love, and ship, Vin and Elend.
