https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138299.The_Great_Game
It's a fabulous eastern action adventure full of the brave and resourceful British explorers and fighters confronting treacherous oriental despots as they maneuver to protect the jewel in the crown from another colonial power. Hopkirk covers a vast swathe of history and territory from Russia's eastward expansion to Alaska to the Russo–Japanese War. He does warn you early on that his goal is to be impartial, but you can't tell a bit as you read. A compelling narrative with fantastic material, I don't know why easterns aren't more popular.
E parte.Nel viaggio incontra una Città, governata da un ferocissimo Khan, ma sfugge e riesce ad inviare un messaggio dove segnala che il Conte Klimoff è passato di là.
Qui di gente che compie imprese possibili solo a Yanez o Sandokan, se ne trovano decine.Ah, attenzione alle cartine, spesso non sono traslitterate come d'uso in italiano, frugate su internet e saprete dove cappero è quella città sede del terrificante crudelissimo Emiro.
Questa mappa, dove il Pamir sono pochi tratteggi malposti, prima di dire che fa schifo, sappiate che è desunta dal rapporto di uno dei personaggi, un inglese.
Peter Hopkirk's book; The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia is a great historical account and a very enjoyable book to read.
In over 560 pages (paperback edition) Peter Hopkirk tells the amazing stories of a number of early British and Russian officers and men involved in the great imperial struggle for supremacy in Central Asia.I found myself reading late into the morning, at times I couldn't put the book down.
A feature of Tory historiography of this sort is that the victories and defeats of empires a century and a half ago are keenly felt; that this book was written during the Cold War is painfully obvious from its attitude towards Russia and Russians.
Though Hopkirk constantly bemoans the Russian advance, he doesn't have much to say about Britian's imperial expansion in India: the conquest of the Punjab merits a few sentences, and the occupation of Afghanistan, twice, is all heroic matyrdom and armchair generalship with a century of hindsight.
Written by someone who grew up in Anglo-India, I think you'll find it extraordinarily insightful, despite the presence of the ponderous and stylistically stilted British Empire.) But back to the style of the Great Game, Peter Hopkirk is a very masterful writer for sure, but for this story, he manages to write the history in the totally anachronistic, rip-roarin' style that you find in colonial-adventure stories (late-Victorian colonial-adventure).
This is one fast read considering the breadth of the work.A bit about the content of the book might be useful after all of my bombination on style: The Great Game relates the history of the struggle between the British Empire and the Russian Empire over the strongholds of Central Asia.
An excellent book charting the rivalry between the British and the Russians in Central Asia, from Peter the Great until Russia's disastrous defeat by Japan in 1905.
The epic tale is told through the adventures of the various soldiers, explorers and thrill-seekers who deployed to this vast, unknown and hazardous region on behalf of their respective governments.
Slowly the region was absorbed by the imperial powers, with many a disastrous mishap on the way.
In particular, Afghanistan remained an intractable buffer between the two imperial giants.
A must for anyone who, like me, wants a concise history of imperial interference in this area.
This is narrative history that can keep one enthralled from the first to the last page. Cliches such as page-turner apply. No doubt the game itself can be discussed further, new books published etc etc but who cares. Hopkirk has written a book that had me looking at the maps, researching the characters, marking the bibliography for further literature to read. What more can one want! A wonderful book.
First things first, it is an engaging read, with just the correct amount of detail and narrative punch.Covering a time period right from the 16th Century, when the Russians slowly started expanding eastwards and came in conflict first with the Central Asian Khanates, then with the British Raj in the 19th Century, the book finishes with the Great Game's own end in the beginning of the 20th Century when Japan beat the Russian Empire.
This book exposed me to a geopolitical legacy of my country that I would have otherwise never heard about.Yes that was the british administered Raj's "Government of India" but Geopolitical realities rarely change with the ethnicity of those in power.Especially liked the chapter "The lion of Tashkent", I love it when Russians win :) .
I liked this a lot, although I think the relevance to events today has been overplayed a bit by some other reviewers: it's better enjoyed as a stirring history than a political primer.I knew a little about the Great Game before – that 19th-century wrangling over Central Asia between Britain and Russia – but I hadn't appreciated before how motivated both sides were, in Britain's case because they feared encroachment on their ‘jewel of the Empire’, British India, and in Russia's case because they were hell-bent on expanding their influence as far as possible.
Jeux sans frontières Da bambino non ricordo di aver mai sognato di fare l'esploratore o l'archeologo, ma l'astronauta sì e il mio desiderio supremo consisteva nell'andare su Giove per studiare la Grande Macchia Rossa. Quando mi resi conto di quanto le mie abilità matematiche e scientifiche fossero scandalosamente basse, desistetti, ma lo spazio infinito esercita ancora su di me un grande fascino e mi riporta indietro a quei giorni in cui disegnavo il sistema solare coi pastelli; nessuno mi batt
In certi capitoli, dove l'avventura s'impenna e non si può non trattenere il fiato leggendo delle brillanti spedizioni a quattromila metri d'altezza con il gelo e la morte nelle membra, il lettore può essere realmente assalito dalla sensazione che si tratti di fandonie, d'invenzioni inglesi fatte per ravvivare la noia vittoriana; le cento pagine di fonti testimoniano invece dell'immenso lavoro necessario per reperire le informazioni elegantemente rielaborate dallo storico, della quantità titanica di rapporti, dispacci, minute diplomatiche, biografie e autobiografie di esploratori svaniti nelle nebbie del tempo, le cui imprese sono diventate - al volgere del secolo - roba di poco conto in confronto al sanguinoso avvitarsi della storia nel continente europeo.
Questa è storia recente, che non si ripete, ma che produce assonanze spettrali; il Grande gioco non è in realtà mai finito, ha solo cambiato giocatori e obiettivi.
Un compendio di viaggi e avventure nel XIX secolo, che fa venire voglia di leggersi tutte le fonti (partire no, che in questo momento la situazione tra Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan e territori limitrofi non è proprio delle più tranquille).
Affascinante è anche la posizione di Hopkirk che per scontato che fosse del tutto legittimo e accettibile e corretto deporre capi, conquistare territori a 20mila km da casa: il concetto di sovranità territoriale era di là da venire, non che oggi sia molto più radicato nei potenti della Terra.
Villages can be situated so as to control entrance/exit for military purposes, even at the cost of commercial traffic.The Great Game is excellent at the history it does relate.
অনেক চিততাকরষক ঘটনাবরণন আছে। কালানুকরমিক বরণনায় রুশ-ইংরেজ সামরাজযের গজকচছপ লড়াই বেশ পরিষকারভাবে উঠে এসেছে। গরেট গেইম সমপরকে কেউ জানতে চাইলে এই বইটা পড়তে সুপারিশও করবো। কিনতু লেখকের গলায় ঔপনিবেশিক ইংরেজ শাসকের সুরটা খুব বিসদৃশ মনে হয়েছে। লেখক তৎকালীন সূতরের ওপর সবাভাবিকভাবেই ভর করেছেন, কিনতু আধেয়ের সাথে আধারও যেন এসে জুটেছে। বইয়ের শুরুতে তিনি দুরবল পরতিজঞা করেছেন, গরেট গেইমের খেলুড়েদের চোখ দিয়ে সবকিছু দেখানোর, কিনতু পেরে ওঠেন নি। তাই তার বরণনায় রুশ সেনাকরতা বা আফগান শাসক বা বোখারার আমির বা চিতরলে
অনেক চিত্তাকর্ষক ঘটনাবর্ণন আছে। কালানুক্রমিক বর্ণনায় রুশ-ইংরেজ সাম্রাজ্যের গজকচ্ছপ লড়াই বেশ পরিষ্কার
Well, perhaps because we keep ourselves too alienated, too distant from the events that happened in the past and forget that history is nothing but a sum of decisions and actions made by individuals.The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia by Peter Hopkirk is one of those rare books that turn boring academic, historical reading into a breathtaking, thrilling, and eye-opening experience.
Peter Hopkirk shows a century of confrontation between Great Britain and Russia in Asian regions through the lives and fates of people involved into the Great Game.
and chattering magpies on almost every tree." Thus Alexander Burnes, a young British subaltern, likening the city he had entered for the first time to paradise.
The city was Kabul.
There were occasions when officers from the two sides could share a meal on a mountainside and drink a toast to the possibility that their next meeting might be as deadly enemies.
Successive Tsars come and go, the British Parliament is itself a battleground between Tories and Liberals.
I'm afraid I'm in love with most of the players - the frontier ones at least.The reason I gave it three, not four stars (I almost never give five, 'cause I'm difficult to please), is that I read William Dalrymple's Return of a King just days before The Great Game.
There is a big chunk of events where these two books overlap and compared to Dalrymple's balanced approach, Hopkirk emerges too Brit-centric for my taste.
And while Hopkirk mostly avoids hard-core stereotyping, for some reason the Russians are always lurking in the steppes or skulking in the mountains, while the Brits are, of course, gallantly exploring.
This book is an excellent account of the competition between the British and Russians to dominate Central and South Asia, including the Central Asian republics, Iran, Afghanistan, India, and Pakistan throughout the 19th century With the development of Caspian Basin oil and gas, the "great game" goes on even today--2008.
Political solutions to conflict seem to be the only path to temporary peace, but this requires tact, patience, and the recognition that Afghans are likely to rebalance their power structures to their own liking soon after intruders depart.One more point: The Great Game accepts, to a certain degree, the romanticism and exoticism inherent in the British (and Russian) imperial outlook.
This work provides an introduction to the struggle for Central Asia between England and Russia. If you are already somewhat familiar with the topic, the book is a disappointment. Hopkirk appears only to have examined the archives on the British side. Thus what you get is half the story. We learn only about what the British speculate about the Russians.
I read this because of the Bush administration's moves towards war after the 9/11 bombings, hoping to get some historical background to Afghanistan, about which I knew very little. On this score, the book was not only what I wanted, but also a pleasure to read.
A wonderful look at the great game with all the romance and occasional total lack of ethics that came into play. Hopkirk is a vivid writer with a knowledge of all of the key players. I look forward to the books of his I haven't read yet.
200 years of game history in under 600 pages. That's a bargain.
Sob enorme risco de vida e avançando sobre territórios inóspitos, os oficiais, aventureiros e exploradores da Rússia e da Grã-Bretanha desbravaram uma região até então intocada por europeus.
Muitos não retornaram de suas missões, mas deixaram seus nomes marcados na história da Ásia Central.Minha única ressalva com relação à obra deve-se à postura adotada pelo autor, que procura privilegiar a perspectiva britânica do conflito.
Compreende-se, entretanto, que a visão limitada do autor sobre os personagens da Rússia envolvidos no conflito deve-se, sobretudo, às dificuldades de acesso aos arquivos oficiais russos do período.
This is likely to be true for most readers from any parts of the world including those at least from the periphery of Central Asia (like this reviewer) and farther if not even from the core.More importantly, the knowledge of what happened in the 19th Century Anglo-Russian rivalry provides a lot of context to many major events that came thereafter including some even now.
One can even say that without the awareness of this great game, one simply lacks the context of not only 19th century colonial rule in India but also any wars that involved China, Russia, Japan or Britain all the way through to the second world war.
I really enjoyed this book. It was thoroughly engaging - great writing, interesting content (at least to me), and the right balance of facts and storytelling. I would highly recommend to anyone interested in the Great Game or Central Asia.
Особливо це помітно, коли автор описує гру, зображуючи російських гравців у негативному світлі або зовсім ігноруючи їх.
Можливо, це сталося тому, що у 1990 році багато радянських архівів були закриті для Хопкірка, тому він фізично не мав до них доступу.Другим суттєвим недоліком книги є відсутність інформації про інших азійських гравців, зокрема східних емірів та політиків, тому книга має очевидний європоцентричний характер.
До речі, тут також цікавою є тіньовий бік політики Британії, адже вона була зацікавлена в доставці опію, про що автор не пише.
У цьому сенсі, автор уникає наступних питань: яким чином Росія будувала залізницю для перевезення нафти?
This blood drenched ground is now parts of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the other Stans freed from Soviet communism with the end of the second Cold War.As Kipling said with more clarity and in far fewer words, the Great Game was a shadowy battle between shady characters who majored in disguises, stealth, cartography, and solitary treks across the length and breadth (and deep valleys and high passes) of the disputed territories.
A century later the same geography would be center stage for many world-changing events that owe their roots to the Great Game.
Unfortunately pulling these stories and events out of Hopkirk's prose isn't worth the effort.
As some other fellow "goodreaders" put it, this book reads like an adventure novel.
It is not very often that you see something like this on a book, let a alone a history one.
It would have been very easy to stick to the facts, but Hopkirk managed to produce something rigorous yet accessible.If I had to write some negative feedback around the book it would be the fact that it is very much focused on the British side of the story.
A fully satisfying popular history of the long struggle between the British and Russian empires during the 19th century.
As I've just started Kipling's Kim, I'm guessing Hopkirk's Quest for Kim will move to the stack on the bedside table.This book is rich in irony – men who served their Empires without question and at considerable sacrifice.
As for those bold British men who were hacked to death high in the Himalayas, slaughtered in Kabul or tossed into the the Bug Pit of Bukhara: "There is little or nothing to show on the map for all their efforts and sacrifices.
More than fine as a military history of Russian & British machinations in Central Asia (probably a must-read on the subject, in fact) whose prose, despite leaning heavily on the crutch of cliches, has a galloping momentum that nicely dispersed the clouds pass over my vision whenever I encounter dates and things that happened on them.
But, criminy, does Hopkirk ever hoist the tattered flag of imperialism high.
Save for emerging periodically for some routine slaughter, the actual Central Asians - shudder-inducingly referred to as Turcomans and, my god, orientals - sit passively in their desert fortresses, waiting for the West to make something sufficiently historical of them.
