https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59817.The_MacKade_Brothers
I strongly recommend you read Rafe and Jared's story first because it's a continuing story."Bad boys, bad boys, what'cha gonna do, what'cha gonna do when they come for you.....LoL, I couldn't resist!Devin & Cassie's story...5 StarsDevin has loved Cassie from afar most of his life, but when she got married right after high school he lost his chance with her.
You will not (could not) be disappointed in this tale of how love can mend even the most shattered of hearts.Shane & Rebecca's story...3.5 StarsI was expecting oh so much more for the last of the four brothers.
I love how Emma say she wants Devin and how he will be her daddy!!Again i liked the pass in time, because Dev and Cassie had a little girl, Aly, and Savannah got her GED, and Regand and Rafe had another little boy Jason, and Jar and Savannah had another on the way!
I love when she went to talk with Savannah and she realizes how she wants a simple life, not a succesful career and prosperity in the city world, but i man who loves her and babies that are her own like she sees in Savannah with Bryan, Layla, and Miranda, and Regan with Nate and Jason, and Cassie with Connor, Emma, and Aly.
Devin and Shane is the conclusion to The MacKade Brothers books.
As always, Nora Roberts delivers great characters and throws in a few good scares while she's at it!Devin is the town Sheriff.
A close college friend of Regan's (Regan married Rafe in Book 1, story 1), Rebecca has come to town to spend some time doing her hobby: paranormal research.
And how will Rebecca react to this ladies man, after a lifetime of books and studies which has left no time for romance?Just as good as the first one.
I think this is a perfect example of a Nora Roberts book.
(Man-whore meets geek-turned-beauty and suddenly reforms his attitude towards marriage - gag me.) Although I did enjoy how Roberts wove the historical war in Antietam with the present-day romance of each of the MacKade brothers, I found myself more often than not, annoyed and bored with the manifestations of the ghosts and their "deep emotions," particularly by the time I was able to read about Shane.
And I must say I could have read much more about Devin and Cassie - their characters had so many layers, that I think they could have been a novel all by themselves...and IMHO, the perfect couple to have ended the series (if only Roberts made Devin the youngest of the brothers instead of Shane).
I LOOOOOOOOOOVVVVVVVVEEEEEE Nora Roberts books.. I enjoyed this series so much that i actually ordered Devin and Shane online.FYI it was my FIRST book ever ordering online rather then buying at a thrift store.. but after RAFE and JARED's story i was dying to find out what happened to the other 2--- I WISH she would consider finishing the series with a book about the kids or something.. the love in that family is stuff dreams are made of... Any book that lets you dream is amazing!!! - Love to read
Since these books flow together, I'll pick up where I left off and comment on each one.These last two, Devin and Shane, are my favorite of the four.
I don't really know how to explain it, since it's not like I personally relate to the women more than the first two.
Though, I think out of Cassie and Rebecca, I can relate most to Rebecca.
But that aside, considering how many times I've read this series, I think I have to put Shane as #1, if I had to pick a favorite.
He's just undeniably charming throughout all four books.
This books included the last two of the MacKades, The Heart of Devin MacKade and The Fall of Shane MacKade.Devin's story was one I was looking the most forward too because I knew it would be about him and Cassie Dolen.
With Joe Dolen in prison for his crimes and with Cassie able to see beyond her past to the man in Devin they realize it's time to take their friendship to more.Shane's story may have been the one I was looking forward to the least but after reading it I was truely charmed.
Devin and Shane MacKade were the younger brothers.
Shane MacKade, the youngest of the brothers lives in the famly farmhouse and goes about his life on the farm he loves.
She is an old college friend of Reagan MacKade and Shane promises to do what is needed to help Rebecca.
But as time goes on and Rebecca spends a few nights at the farm with Shane he finds that she can let her hair down.
She finds in Shane and the entire MacKade family many of the things she never had growing up.
Loved loved loved this series! Rafe and Shane are may favorites, but I love Jerad and Devin. I think Devin was probably the hottest. hmmmm, anyways, only thing I didnt like was how the whole ghost stories where told 15 freaking times, blah, I could recite that crap for you. Love the series though, and I totally agree with my BFF, move over Creeds and McKettricks, the Mackades are here :D
These are the two youngest of the fair MacKade brothers.
Apparently there were two books written about the two older brothers, Rafe and Jared.
The MacKade brothers - all four of them - are good looking and likeable guys.
They grew up fighting with one another and have continued that tradition, so their 'women' just have to learn to live with it.The two books were quick to read, and if I came across the two books on the older brothers, I would definitely get them and read them also.
I read these book in 2005 and still like the stories!
Love re-reading the classic books by Nora Roberts. I have pretty much read everything she has written. And any books that have history like the Civil War in there, I know it will be wonderful.
Two more stories about the MacKade boys, their loves and the Civil War ghosts on their land.
He is done waiting for her and ready to make a move.I was super excited to read Cassie and Devin's story because Cassie has been a recurring character in the first two books, and she is so kind and sweet one can't help but want her to be happy, and Devin is absolutely perfect for her.
The end of this book was awesome too, with a real conflict, and not only between Devin and Cassie, but with Joe. There was some great action, and justice in this ending, and it was really quite perfect.The second book in this book was The Fall of Shane MacKade.
The town of Antietam was the site of a battle in the Civil War and in the MacKade books two young soldiers that were running away met up in the woods, in fear shot one another and while one managed to run to the old Barlow house the other was found on MacKade land.
The lady of the Barlow house haunts the property because she was so unhappy in her marriage and in this story all the hauntings come full circle because we find out what happened to the other soldier)Shane is the last Mackade standing single, and he's paired with Rebecca Knight, an academic prodigy, who is friends with Regan.
E ti amo ancora adesso»DEVIN - 4 stelleLa storia di Devin era quella che più mi ispirava fin dall'inizio.
Devin è innamorato della dolce Cassie da ben 12 anni, ma da ragazzo ha esitato troppo a lungo prima di dichiararsi così lei, appena diciottenne, aveva sposato Joe per sfuggire alla sua cattolica e bigotta famiglia.
In questa ultima storia la presenta dei fantasmi e del passato, che ci hanno accompagnato lungo tutta la serie, è più presente che e in un certo senso Shade e Rebecca chiudono il cerchio e la serie con un bell'epilogo!
This was a great followup to  . The Heart of Devin MacKade was a sweet story, with him pining for Cassandra for so long. I get a little bit edgy with Nora Roberts' evil characters, but all in all it was a great story, with Cassandra being in tune with Abigail's ghost and making decisions based upon the past.The Fall of Shane MacKade was a cute title, but perhaps one of the more unrealistic of the pairings with Shane, a ladies' man, and Rebecca, a girl genius. I'm not sure how much I believe that
. The Heart of Devin MacKade was a sweet story, with him pining for Cassandra for so long.
I get a little bit edgy with Nora Roberts' evil characters, but all in all it was a great story, with Cassandra being in tune with Abigail's ghost and making decisions based upon the past.The Fall of Shane MacKade was a cute title, but perhaps one of the more unrealistic of the pairings with Shane, a ladies' man, and Rebecca, a girl genius.
:)I'm really not into ghost stories so much, but Roberts seems to be, and does it well, intertwining it among all of the characters, and drawing me in.
Questo perchè purtroppo questi libri risentono del fatto che l'autrice abbia dovuto concentrare il tutto in poche pagine.
(il libro è diviso a metà per le due storie dei due fratelli quindi neanche 150 per storia).Ma Nora è bravissima, riesce comunque a trasportarti e a farti provare forti emozioni.
Peccato però che non siano stati scritti di questi tempi.
Troverete amore, amicizia, amore per i figli, senso della famiglia, per i veri valori, amore anche per gli animali, per tutto insomma ^^Ricordatevi però che sono stati scritti 20 anni fa.
The Heart of Devin MacKade (5 stars) This was the sweetest romance of the four stories, it was emotional too and I loved it.
Loved loved to see how they were doing and how Rafe, Jared and Devin gave Shane a hard time and how Shane struggled with those new feelings.
Final thoughts: I feel like laughing of happiness but crying at the same time because I loved so much this series and it's over!!
:( I don't know how Nora does it but I love her for writing such amazing series, love stories and characters like the MacKades and their soulmates.
Any time I need a familiar comfortable read, something to cleanse my palate, or something that I don't have to concentrate on, but can just enjoy, I can pick up one of Nora Roberts older romances and still be absorbed, without straining my brain.
Or my favorite, when the house is empty (no kids!) and its cold or rainy outside, with a cup of hot tea or hot chocolate, these are something I can read and enjoy and when you've finished it you feel so satisfied, like the world is as it should be.
And you don't feel stupid or dumber for having read it like most romances.
Books 3 and 4 of the McKade Brothers four parter.Enjoyable. Liked Devin’s story the best.The MacKade Brothers:Book 1 The Return of Rafe MacKade (1995) - Rafe MacKade and Regan JonesBook 2 The Pride of Jared MacKade (1995) - Savannah Morningstar and Jared MacKadeBook 3 The Heart of Devin MacKade (1996) - Devin MacKade and Cassie DolanBook 4 The Fall of Shane MacKade (1996) - Shane MacKade and Dr. Rebecca KnightReferences:Author's website: http://noraroberts.com(ISBN 9781742558554)-CR-
Pick up a Nora Roberts book to check the prologue and see if you've read it or not.
I wasn't going to read the stories of Devin and Shane yesterday.
I had read an article by Sarah of Smart Bitches mentioning Devin's story and I couldn't remember it, so I went to the Nora collection to see first, if I had the book and secondly, had I read it.
(If not I was going to buy it on sale for the ereader.) Well, I owned the book - the volume with Shane's story - and I'd not read it.
Devin MacKade, the third bad boy brother is now sheriff of Antietam and has always loved Cassie, who married the wrong man and barely survived an abusive marriage.
With the help of the ghosts of the past and their underlying love, they are able to overcome difficulties and find happiness.Shane MacKade is the youngest of the brothers, and has only ever wanted to farm the land and pursue all the ladies he can catch!
He is surprised to find himself falling for a visiting academic who is searching for the ghosts and answers to the past that haunt Antietam and the MacKades.
By no means am I trying to say that romance books in that time were not good, they were, just not like today's steamy novels.
THESE novels are steamy and romantic and full of truth and life and the characters jump out at you, they are so real in their emotions!
unfortunately, I have to say that Shane's story started out kind of boring to me until about half way thru when he began his intimate interactions with Becky and then the book took off for me and was wonderful as the last three brothers!
but I got over it and enjoyed the heck out of Becky and Shane!HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS SERIES!
The MacKades.
There's this bond that connects them, and eventually, you're connected to that link they have established.
What I love about Nora Roberts is that she always seem to be able to create these familial bonds in her work.Meh, of course, the romance and happy endings are great...
They family foundation is  sorry, loss for words.The Mackade series are perfect for both nothing to do moments and demanding reality events.
With the touch of a bit of the paranormal, it's refreshing to read  when you've read so many contemporary romances prior to the series.
Also love to see men who are not afraid to do "women's work" or accept another man's child or children as his own.The storyline is easy to follow and kept me involved until the end.
One of the few series that I wanted to read in order and not skip to the ending to read it first.Devin is a great law enforcer and was sensitive enough to know to take things slowly with Cassie.
And even though it hurt, he left when Cassie's son said he didn't want a father, due to a fear of the abuse starting again.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
I enjoyed this series and all the characters.
Ms. Roberts did a fine job of weaving the stories and characters between the four books in the series.
I also liked how she stretched the series out over a couple of years.
Usually in a series like this, each book happens one on top of the other so that the brothers and their wives would all be having babies at the same time.
It gives it more of a real sense of time.I also enjoyed the weaving of the ghost stories throughout each book, and how they were approached from different perspectives.
Oh, Nora.
So far this book is your typical romance, but you know, the few Roberts books that I've read are so sweet and addictive.
I just finished this last week, and I have to say, my views on Nora have improved.
I always knew she wasn't a fluffy kind of romance writer where you feel like your brain is melting when you read it and all the women have heaving bosoms and the men are totally sensitive.
Yep, read the second one first.
Haha.If you're unsure about romance, I recommend reading some of Nora Roberts for sure.

