https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65497.Love_Comes_Softly
I love this entire series of books.Janette Oke is such a wonderful author. The characters have flaws, but they always, always try to do the right thing. The stories are sweet, real, and always teach a valuable lesson.If you're looking for a "feel good" Christian romance that doesn't contain any explicit sexual content, then I'd strongly encourage you to give these stories a try.
~4.5 stars~This was the first book that I read by Janette Oke ^_^ I saw the movies for this series a long time ago and didn't remember too much about them...also I watch When Calls the Heart with my mom and sisters all the time :P But this was the first time I actually read something from her and I was surprised by how much I liked it!
:D The things Marty would think/say always made me smile or crack up laughing xD It was such a relaxing book to read for me...if that makes sense lol I do plan on continuing with the series!
I wanted to hit myself over the head with the book a few times because of it.
Each character has a very thick backwoods accent, and whether that was realistic or not, it really drew me out of the story.
I had to reread a bit of dialogue two or three times just to know what the character was saying.
While I often times like the authentic feel accented dialogue gives a character, I think it was too much in this case.
The characters were very lovable and sweet, and the story was intriguing and interesting.All in all, this was kind of a "meh" book for me.
3 stars.Not my favourite, but it wasn’t bad, just what I needed to pass the time.
This entire series is just GOLD. One of my favorites. <3
This series was first published in 1979, and I probably read it around that time.Janette Oke introduced me to "Christian fiction" when there wasn't such a thing. I remembered it being a lovely story, but I wondered if I'd like it as much nearly 40 years later.The answer is YES!This story is beautiful written with strong characters and plenty of action.And now I want to re-read the rest of the series.Strongly recommend.
I used to watch the Hallmark movie version of Oke’s bestselling book over and over again, and I was interested in reading the original book.
However, as I came to find out, the movie version is vastly different and much better.
And the plot as a whole was very simplistic with day-to-day details that make the whole thing very cumbersome.
The story feels rushed as the narration skips over months and other important details, and the description of the setting makes it seem like Oke has no idea when Oregon winters occur.
During these times, I wish that a little more background information had been given about Marty so that I could better understand her reluctance to be beholden to a man, her being suspicious about Clark's kindness, and her inability to perform some of the simplest household tasks.
As I continued to read, I realized that the story was really all about Marty's journey back to wholeness and being able to open her heart to love again, and I really enjoyed watching her learn, and change, and most of all grow as a person.There is a part of me that wishes we could have had a little more insight from Clark's point of view.
The writer in me wonders why I love it so much, when Janette Oke writes an older style that breaks so many modern rules.
But I truly do love this book.
It’s like eating comfort food.
I love the Biblical themes that Oke weaves through her stories, the realistic characters, the true-to-life events without being melodramatic, and the old-fashioned feel.
Her search was one of an honest heart.Yes, it is a romance, but it’s a romance between a married couple, which I find sweet.
Really, I find it beautifully done.In short, I still like this book.
I was able to shrug them off and love the story for what it is.
If you dislike stories that tell instead of show, don't read this.If lots of "hick" accents annoy you, don't read this.If you want sappy romance, don't read this.If possible historical inaccuracies bother you, don't read this.If you prefer books where you live with the characters instead of watching from the sidelines, don't read this.Otherwise, enjoy the story.I have never read any book by Janette Oke, but I had heard so much about them and how good they are, that when I found the kindle version for free, I got it.
This was one of the sweetest, most endearing little books I've ever read. It was gripping, sweet, and realistic- all in one incredible package. Loved it.
*ngeles, mang sapah suruh ngasih pinjem buku romantis-romantisan coba?*- iya deh, seminggu yah, jangan lebih *kebayang ekspresi keki dan sebal, seperti kucing yang kesiram air*+ iyeh bawel, btw, buku ini bagus gak?
Malemnya, iseng gak ada kerjaan *kebetulan seminggu ini gak ada kuliah, semua dosen jurusan lagi ikut seminar di jakarta selama seminggu, thanks*, daripada rugi dah minjem tapi gak dibaca, ya mulailah membuka buku ini *setelah menimang-nimang bukunya dan mikir beberapa menit, mending dibaca atau langsung dibalikin*dicoba dulu lah, kalo gak suka, hentikan bacanya.
That's what God ordained marriage for, whether feelings of 'love' are there or not.~ Pioneer faith.
He doesn't get in Marty's face and demand whether she knows God or not - but he is Christ to her in every way, until the day when she accepts 'Clark's God'.
He doesn't try to express anything towards her until he knows she shares his feelings, and it is shown in the book in a way that does not violate purity.
A friend told me once, that books usually cover two or more of the four main features: Characters, Plot, Setting, and Language.
There wasn't a colorful physical description, but you get to know the characters emotionally.
The best kind of knowing characters.
It came by really naturally, and we get to experience the struggle Marty (the main character) had with the God that was being introduced to her at the time when she is most miserable.
The idea that we can indeed find God at any circumstance, and even more so, I believe, when we are hitting the lowest point of our lives - which is often the point when every body seems to desert us - is truly comforting.
This is my first Janette Oke novel, and I plan to read more by her.
This was a bit like Little House on the Prairie.
The only things I found to be a little bit annoying were the bumpkin dialect she writes in for the dialogue, and how the characters are always drinking coffee-- as though the author were in a rut and couldn't decide what else to do with them!
But the story is a good one, sweet and simple, and I'm looking forward to reading the rest in the series.
Janette Oke brings us the Christian side of the frontier.
Read the book when I was a teen, then again as an adult. Watched most of the series and then re-read the book. The first movie,I think, was with Katherine Heigle, The author of this Christian romance series is from my home province but I didn't know that until recently. She also did a very lovely RCMP series set in Alberta. Anyway, I won't go into the book because the mass amounts of ratings but highly recommend this beautiful story. Very authentic.
I was wrong to have waited so long to read this book; I almost missed a treasure by not reading it at all! I watched this as a movie on TV and I really didn't cling to it. The book however was a breath of fresh air. It's true pioneer grit and charm all in one. It's not just about love but a community linking arms in times of need. Quiet humor and strong faith. No flowery words or talk of beauty; no secrets needed or misunderstandings to keep a novel going; just pure pleasant writing at it's finest.
This book was amazing and teaches family values. If you enjoy the Little House series, this is good clean holsome reading, but for adults.
What a great read! I love how Clark and Marty build a relationship based on respect, teamwork, dignity, and mutual appreciation. Marty is a great female lead -- she's determined, makes an impact on Clark's life as much as he does on hers, and changes other's lives for the better in small impactful ways. The love Marty discovers with Clark is beautiful. I loved the ending few pages for the big payoff at the end of their journey. This is much better than the movie.
I read all these books when I was like 10 XD XD Maybe this is what gave me such an appetite for romance.
This book surprised me!
It is something I would have never picked up on my own, so I have a fellow Book Club friend to thank for the recommendation.
I found this to be a nice palate-cleansing book as I read quite a bit of heavy material.
I was pleased that that relationship that developed in this book was not over-the-top romantic and the Christian aspects of the novel are gentle, not aggressive for any readers who may not be of the same faith.
I might continue reading additional books in this series to continue the journey of the characters in this novel.
Wonderful ... again! One of my very favorite series, and this time I just wanted some light reading before beginning what promises to be a semester of very heavy reading! April 2015 ... read again and enjoyed it just as much. Again the "light reading" was a welcome relief after some heavier reading in March. The romance, and the faith, all work together for a delightful story.
A wonderful read.
Now reading the actual book, Love Comes Softly is now my #1 favorite marriage of convenience romance book I have ever read to this date.
I really loved the movie as I mentioned, but as is also usually the case, the book in my opinion was so much even better.
Mention of domestic violence with a side character.Sensuality: G rated squeaky clean between the hero and heroine, because as the title indicates love does come romantically softly and gradually in this marriage of convenience between a very recent widow and widower both in mourning still for the lost of their first spouses.
Well, I wanted something fast, fluffy and wholesome, and I was not disappointed! Though I generally turn up my nose at Christian romance in search of something more edgy and intellectual, I’m tired and yearning for the literary equivalent of boxed Mac and cheese - straightforward, easy to digest comfort food. So thanks 1979 Janette Oke! My only issue was the heavy handed vernacular dialogue, but I’m afeareed there tweren’t naught to do abixt it. Still scratched the fluffy fiction itch. Now off to find book 2!
This book was amazing. The depth of emotion pulled me in so much. And those characters. <3 Janette Oke took situations that would have been awkward with other authors and somehow made it comfortable. She also didn't put in any awkward scenes between Marty and Clark like the movies did.Overall, an awesome book, I'm looking forward to the rest of the series!
I really liked it, and it made me want to read the book.
Then my friend told me she actually really liked the book.
So I resumed reading it with an open mind.I really liked the book, too.
I actually like the book more than the movie, which I did not expect to happen.The book follows the story of Marty, a frontier woman (really just barely more than a girl) who came out West with her husband, only to have him die before they really got to begin their life out there.
There is no one for Marty to turn to, they only arrived the day before she can't go home because a wagon train wont come until June, and to make matters harder Marty is about 5 months pregnant.
On the day of her husbands funeral a man comes to Marty with a proposal.
If Marty will marry him and become mama to his baby he will giver her all she needs and if she still wants to go back to her family when the wagon train comes he will pay for her to go but she will have to take his precious baby with her.
Along comes a young man with an offer that she marry him and come to live in his house to care for his motherless daughter, Missie.
Marty realizes that she has very few options and accepts his offer in spite of her pain at losing her young husband.
The story continues as Marty learns to keep house and cook and care for the little girl.
This story reminds me of the Little House books and was a beautiful story of how loss can be overcome and how much people depended on each other in the early days in the prairies.
Having enjoyed the Hallmark movies, I actually had good hopes for these books.
The movies don't hide that fact that these are "Christian" stories, but the religious elements there are tempered and used judiciously.
I struggled with this, since I consider myself Christian, and I agreed in large part with the way the doctrines were espoused and even feel that I am as actively devout as the characters in the book.
I found the books uncomfortable in their heavy-handedness in this area.
The first and fourth books were the better of the four, and the third was absolutely unbearable.
