https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107301.A_Town_Like_Alice
She makes the case that writers, craftsmen and craftswomen, like Nevil Shute, Bernard Malamud, Elizabeth Taylor, Robertson Davies are largely forgotten by the reading community today.
I am the consummate pursuer of writers, exactly like Shute, who have been relegated to the past, left for dead, but who are in need of a resurrection with a new generation of readers.
You, too, can meet Jean Paget and Joe Harman and get to know what poddy-dodging means and ringers, but more importantly, if you love a good story as well crafted as the airplanes you trust your life to, then you should be reading Nevil Shute.
Noel watches Jean fall in love with a distinct feeling of regret, since her new life will take her away from England, but he continues to help her as she begins to transform the Australian outback town where she has chosen to live.
I may be in the minority of liking the second half better than the first, not just for the romance (which is nice but doesn't take up a lot of space in the book) but more for the way in which the main character takes action to change her town.
Felt like this was two stories held together by the indefatiable Jean Paget, she certainly is a wonderful, well written character.
There are no gimmicks here, just some good, old fashioned story telling with the added bonus of one learning quite a bit about Malaya, though the events here were actually perpetuated in Sumatra, and about Australia and the ghost towns left empty after the gold Rush.
It is no wonder then that I felt this part of the book was written the best.Queensland, Australia and the stations at Wells town is the setting for the second half, connected of course by Jean and a person she meets in Malaya.
I wanted to read this book for such a very long time.
Fact and fiction is entwined here in such a way that the distinction between tale and truth becomes impossible.
In the novel however, the number of women who started out was 32 and end with something like 16.Malaysia, instead of Sumatra, is the focal country in this story by the author's own admission and choice.
I got the impression that the author wanted to honor a friend's life story by turning it into a novel.
It was up to Strachan to sort things out and carry out his client's last wishes.Of course, Jean Paget was never the woman McFadden believed his niece to be.
Joe and Jean are separated under circumstances which this reviewer will not reveal.As a bit of an aside, I found Shute's depiction of Japanese troops and their behavior toward the British women and children one of the most sensitive and humane portrayals in literature and history.
Jean Paget is one of those women capable of enchanting many a man with her mind, her intellect, her toughness, and her capacity to love, not only a man, but life and all it encompasses.Too right, Mr. Shute.
A Town Like Alice follows Jean Paget, a Scottish woman who was raised by her parents in Malay (now known as Malaysia), returns to work there as an adult and ultimately finds herself trapped there as a Prisoner of War when the Japanese invade the Island during World War II.Her captivity is accurately described as horrible, with starvation and long marches from town to town killing many women and children.
Eventually, when Joe steals five chickens to feed the sick and hungry women and children, Jean is interrogated and punished until Joe confesses and is later crucified by a cruel Japanese leader.The story's narration is directed by an elderly British attorney, Noel Strachan, who is put in charge of a trust Jean's uncle leaves her.
Nevil Shute's sweeping novel sees privileged Englishwoman, Jean Paget, upended from her expat life in colonial Malaya by the invading Japanese, in WWII.Paget somehow survives the brutality of an enforced death march through a jungle peninsula and eschews the home comforts of post-war England for altruistic work in far-flung climes (Malaya and the Australian outback).This is a compelling read, despite it seeming a bit dated now, and Shute can be commended for creating a modern, ballsy female character in a time of authorial chauvinism.
This novel had been lying about my house in India for a long time: an old copy somebody abandoned (I couldn't even recognise the name written on the cover).
Old houses gather books like they do other things (moth-eaten clothes, faded photographs and chipped chinaware).
Then, we are suddenly plunged into war-torn Malaya and the personal heroism of Jean and her Australian admirer, Joe Harman: extremely gripping stuff.Bud sadly, for me, after that the novel began to flag - it became a sort of travelogue about the Australian outback mixed up with and instruction booklet on "How to Set Up Business in Rural Australia".

This month's bookclub pick, A Town Like Alice by Nevil Shute, starts in England with an aging attorney setting up a trust. Most of the story follows Jean Paget, who spent most of World War II in Malaya as a prisoner of the Japanese. The journey after the war is the best part. It's a slow journey to get there, but paid off. Warning - there are some racist comments in here that seem a bit harsh even in 1950.
The second half takes us on Jean's journey to Australia, where she hopes to find out more about the man she whose death she believes she caused.There is much to like about both parts of the story.
And with respect to the generational differences, this may even be the point of the book (one of them), to show how attitudes towards women have changed, if only slightly (?) - Jean's uncle didn't believe an unmarried woman under 40 had sense enough to deal with money, her solicitor didn't share this attitude but still presided over the trust fund in a patronising manner, Jean herself didn't trust her ability (even tho she had already proven to be a very strong character) and it took encouragement for her to set up her own enterprise(s).This is a part of the book that confused me, too.
One of the best "make lemonade out of lemons" books I've read.
Told by Noel Strachan, an aging solicitor who is the trustee of Jean's estate, this story unfolds quietly.
Jean is a strong, delightful woman; just the sort needed in the development of a section of Queensland, Australia that was left as a ghost town after the gold rush ended.
It's a solidly told story of a determined man & woman who want to forge a life together and how they did it.I'd love a wallaby as a semi-pet, too.
The descriptions of homestead life in Queensland is lonely but also very lovely.
I am now posting a full review of this wonderful novel.This book has to be one of the great love stories of all time.
This is one of Nevil Shute’s best loved novels and one which I read as a teenager.
The storyline is nicely constructed and believable with the POV switching neatly between the old English solicitor, Jean Paget and Joe Harman.
The book tells the story of what she does with the money and with the careful management and advice of the old solicitor (who becomes her best friend and admirer).
This section is kind of dull reading, but then the narrative takes off when a cold, windy rainstorm keeps Jean and the attorney at his home one afternoon, and Jean tells him her story of being a Japanese prisoner of war in Malaya during WWII.
However, Jean and Joe's wartime attraction was abruptly brought to and end, and the story fast-forwarded back to 1950's England.The final section of the book dealt with Jean receiving her legacy, and her dream to do something positive with the money to help others.
Courtesy of Spirit of Malaysia, which has lots of historic photographs and stories about WWII in South Asia.For others--both colonial soldiers, and civilian men and women, the Japanese conquest would mark the start of three years of horror.
It is also a story of how those survivors rebuilt their lives, and with equal determination, built a new world on the rugged outback of Australia.At the heart of the story is a young British woman, Jean Paget, born in Malaya who takes up a secretarial post only to find herself caught up in the invasion.
For Jean, memories of Joe, of their conversations about Australia, of the food that he steals for the women, and of his ultimate sacrifice haunt her in the years to come.
Solicitor Noel Strachan tells the story of a young English woman for whom he is trustee.
Strachan relates her stories of that time period, including the Australian prisoner who helped them when no one else would, and the villagers who risked the wrath of the Japanese by sheltering them.
Jean Paget is a remarkably strong young woman – brave, intelligent, level-headed, resilient, creative and generous.
Her uncle may have believed that a young woman has no head for business, but Jean clearly proves him wrong.
But I’m very glad Shute took the time to introduce the young Jean Paget through her experiences in Malaya during the war.
Although he got many of the facts wrong about the prisoners he wrote a compelling novel, a love story between Jean Paget and Joe Harman.
Another man Noel, who loved Jean, narrates the story.
The latter half of the book centers on the love story between Jean and Joe and is exquisitely written and well constructed.
She witnesses many deaths, due primarily to disease and fatigue and eventually stays in a nearby town, occupied by the Japanese, for the remainder of the war.
While there she witnesses Joe, an Australian who she had met and is secretly in love, publicly embarrass the Japanese commander over some stolen chickens.
There must have been a lot of real life people similar to the Jean Paget character who were willing to sink their sweat and their money into the possibility of something finer.
I found it distracting, and there's one place where even Nevil Shute got lost in the unnecessary complication, having Noel refer to himself in the third person rather than "me" or "I." 2)Jean Paget seems to have sprung forth fully formed as this young woman full of grit and determination and leadership abilities far beyond her years.
A Town like Alice by Nevil Shute." Nevil Shute's most beloved novel, a tale of love and war, follows its enterprising heroine from the Malayan jungle during World War Two to the rugged Australian outback"Having read the blurb on this novel I was really looking forward to reading this story as it was described as "Entertaining" and "Dramatic" but unfortunately for me I neither found the book Dramatic or entertaining and really could only be pushed to describing it as a pleasant read that is neither exciting or memorable.The problem I had with this Novel was it seemed to be a book of two halfs and while the first half was interesting and very readable the second half was bland and not very believable for me.
Story--great; writing--terrible. That pretty much sums it up for me. The author took interesting characters and concepts and made them as dull as possible by telling it through the eyes of the lawyer. I was constantly frustrated by that feeling of being removed from the characters and the action. I wanted it to be so much more vivid. If this had been written first person from Jean's perspective, it would have made a world of difference.
He pays a high price for this kind of help.Only when the War finishes, Jean and Joe will be able to share their love in the Australian outback in "A town like Alice", a modern town like Alice Springs.This is a very touching story not only during the hard time in the Malaya walk but also during the period of Jean's life in Australia when she put all her effort in order to promote an Australian city in one of the best and modern cities and helping the local population by offering new jobs.According to the author's note, the march and death of the homeless women prisoners happened in Sumatra and thus is based in a true story.
There's nothing like an engineer writing a book. Cool.Here's an image from the 1981 series. I need to write a proper review but thought I'd share this.
WWII POWs in Malaya; alligator shoes and ice cream in rural AustraliaA Town Like Alice is a "bonza" book (as one of its main characters, Joe Hardman of Australia, would say) about two love stories, two adventures and two remarkable characters inspired by a real-life man and woman who displayed remarkable bravery during WWII.
Nevil Shute gives these two people new fictional lives, and as Joe and Jean they are inspirationally resilient as prisoners of war in Japanese-occupied Malaya and afterwards in mid-century outback Australia.
I tried to describe this book to my husband, and found myself unable to talk about the book without narrating the entire plot, but then backing away from that outline to explain that it wasn't a spoiler because what happens in the book is like the skeleton that the author hangs the depth of the story from.
A little like the young engineerng manager in No Highway, this solicitor's way of quietly taking his role seriously and doing a good job at doing his job is part of what makes the rest of the story possible.
The Japanese army took many prisoners including Jean and 31 other women and children but having no camp for women made them walk all over the country in the blistering heat to find a suitable place...During this time she met Joe Harman an Australian 'ringer (cowboy if you will) ' serving in the army..This is a wonderful story of heroism, far off places, Australia and Malaya, native people, life and death, love and hardship.I cared for the people in this book, the old solicitor Noel Strachan who tells the story is such a lovely, well drawn character too.As well as the afore mentioned Driffield there are also mentions of Hull (where I live) and Goole which again is place near to me...:) If you've not read A town like Alice I highly recommend it...
***********Spoiler Alert**********When we first meet Jean Paget , she appears as a quiet, unassuming young woman , who has suddenly inherited a large sum of money.Jean's story gradually unfolds as she tells of the terrible ordeal she suffered through on a death march in Malaya , at the hands of the Japanese during WW II .
Shute tells us that the death march actually occurred , but in Sumatra , rather than Malaya .This is a wonderful story of courage , perseverance and love .
I'm not sure how I got this far without having read a Nevil Shute novel, but I'm glad there are more to read .
I was surprised I liked this book so much.
It was written in the 1950's and I found it absolutely charming.
That should be a genre I think, "charming" books.
I'd throw in Parnassus on Wheels and 84 Charing Cross Road.A Town Like Alice is about a young Englishwoman who, after being a prisoner of war for years in Malaysia, inherits some money and sets out to Australia to find the man who tried to help her during the war.
When you read it, you have to keep in mind the era when it was written or you may be offended.Other than that, I'd give it 4.5 stars if I could.
Ultimately, thanks to the efforts of their resilient leader, Jean, the wanderers found a permanent place to serve out the duration of the war in a Malay village, where they worked in the paddy fields for their keep.The Author’s Note at the end of the book explains that, although some details have been changed, this story is based on the true experiences of a group of Dutch women and children taken captive and force-marched over 1200 miles for nearly 3 years.
The story about an ordinary extraordinary woman, Jean Paget, who was held prisoner together with 30 British women and children in Malaya by the Japanese during the Second World War. As there wasn't any camp for them, the Japanese kept them walking from village to village without knowing what to do with them, provoking the death of more than half of the party due to exhaustion, bad nutrition and tropical diseases.
Or so they think.Some years later, Jean comes into some money because she inherits her uncle's fortune and decides to go back to Malaya and do something good for the people who finally helped them and that's when she discovers that the Australian didn't die.
Most of my GR friends really enjoyed this, so please give it a go if you're thinking about it.
It didn't ring any bells for me but everyone is different.The storyline is intriguing and I was fully expecting a "love till I die" book but the writing itself ruined it for me.
It was just boring.
And I actually like slow books, but this was bone dry.
Lots of telling but very little showing.
Almost like a journal instead of a story.
I just didn't care anymore, you know?
In the hands of Emma Drummond this would be awesome!
