https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25203675-the-star-touched-queen
“I want to share whole worlds with you and write your name in the stars.”“I want to measure eternity with your laughter.” I want to know what the fuck that^ means? No, seriously, can someone tell me?1 1/2 stars. The Star-Touched Queen is a book full of dreamy, purple prose that is at times beautiful, and at others makes absolutely no sense. But if you buy into these metaphors, put on your prose-tinted glasses and let yourself get drunk on the glittering descriptions, I suppose you might be able
But if you buy into these metaphors, put on your prose-tinted glasses and let yourself get drunk on the glittering descriptions, I suppose you might be able to ignore:• The slut-shaming/woman-hating• The instalove/obsession (complete with nauseating sweet nothings)• The lack of character development• The meandering plot• The blind stupidity of the heroine• The lack of world-building (beyond the nonsensical weirdness of the Otherworld)Let's start at the beginning and break this down.The Star-Touched Queen is not what I expected.
Which is almost hilarious.Not only is Maya allergic to all the other evil, slutty females in this book, but she is so freaking stupid...
Although I had never envisioned marriage, I had thought of love. Not the furtive love I heard muffled in the corners or rooms of some of the harem wives. What I wanted was a connection, a shared heartbeat that kept rhythm across oceans and worlds. I didn't want the prince from the folktales or some milk-skinned, honey-eyed youth who said his greetings and proclaimed his love in the same breath. I wanted a love thick with time, as inscrutable as if a lathe had carved it from night and as familia
As such, she may be a princess, but she lives her life as one ostracized.It's not all bad, because nobody pays attention to her, Maya gets the run of the court.
That independence soon comes to a close when Maya gets the shock of her life; she is to be betrothed to the a foreign prince to avert war between their nations.
Instead of freedom, Maya will now live a life in a gilded cage to a stranger.
She finds love.
And there was our own, human world, mortal, with only the comfort of stories to keep away the chill of death."And the romance!
All fantasy readers, are you ready to meet your favourite 2016 publication?That’s right, it’s that good.The first thing you’ll notice when you start reading this gem is the elegant writing. If it doesn’t sweep you off your feet, color me dumbstruck. I can’t imagine someone being immune to it. An angel must have written this story. ‘‘My kingdom needs a queen,’’ he said. ‘‘It needs someone with fury in her heart and shadows in her smile. It needs someone restless and clever. It needs you.’’ As I w
‘‘My kingdom needs a queen,’’ he said.
As I was reading the story, a thought kept popping up my mind: how the hell did Maya survive this long, even with those guards?
She wants more from life than to just be wife; she yearns for education, freedom and she doesn’t blindly trust men.
Maybe you’ll find him a little too ‘‘intense,’’ but if the romance in Cruel Beauty worked out for you, I don’t see why you wouldn’t adore the relationship between Maya and Amar.
Gorgeous writing is not enough to make up for what it's lacking in plot and characters.I admit it.
If this doesn’t interest you, I’d already suggest reading something else.
If we took the book and cut out all the overly-descriptive sentences and metaphors, it would be less than half the size and that’s being generous.There was so much lacking when it came to plot.
I don’t feel like we knew any of the characters really.
It’s hard to care about any relationship when it begins like this.Again I’ll mention that while I can appreciate the beauty of the writing, it wasn’t enough for me.
I think I’ll just read those and pretend this didn’t happened.
Goodreads is saying I've read this for the second time but this is my first time reading it (as it has with a lot of books since adding the rereading feature). Need sometime to think on it also it's 5am so I will update later!
Oh my goodness this absolutely just became one of my all-time favorite books!First of all, Roshani Chokshi can seriously write.
The entire story was beyond gorgeous and magical and just aaaaahh I am totally failing to put my love for this into words so here's a gif of me while reading this:I'm not sure if it's meant to have hints of the original Beauty & the Beast and the Hades/Persephone myth, but it did remind me of that in parts (and I remember reading some description from the publisher that said it had hints of Greek and Indian mythology).
you know that feeling when you finish a book and enjoy it, so you go creep on your friends reviews to see how much they like it as well, but then you have to slowly back away because more than half of them DNF’d it?
i mean, i can sort of understand how it might have bored some people, but i actually quite liked this.
okay.’ reaction, which was a little anticlimactic, but it didnt ruin the book for me.
i feel so sad that a lot of people didnt enjoy this, but the book had high entertainment value for me personally.
❝He loved her. And she loved him. And in such bliss does devastation grow.❞  Rating: {★ ★ ★}I must admit, I'm a bit conflicted on how I want to rate and review this book. I enjoyed reading The Star-Touched Queen but at the same time, I did have a few issues that stuck out to me and affected my reading experience.The Star-Touched Queen was like The Wrath and the Dawn meets Cruel Beauty meets A Court of Thorns and Roses with Indian mythology added into the mix. A lot was going on and I was reall
Even after finishing the book, I'm still unsure of how the world works...
But I decided to just look past the insta-love part and found myself enjoying the chemistry between Maya and Amar.The Star-Touched Queen wasn't really how I expected it to be.
Roshani's writing is very artistic and beautiful, and I wish I could've enjoyed it to its full potential but it didn't work for me.
I can understand completely how other readers would enjoy The Star-Touched Queen.
I sure haven't read any books based on Indian mythology and I give Roshani props for trying to pursue this!
“Kill, if you must. String a garland of severed heads around your waist if you want. I would take you in my arms if you were drenched in blood or dressed in rubies … but think. Impulsiveness is a dangerous thing.”  You guys, this was so beautiful! The Star-Touched Queen is a loosely based retelling of the Greek mythology surrounding Hades and Persephone, but told in a setting to completely celebrate Indian culture. I loved every aspect of the retelling, but I also loved every new and inventive
This was an absolute treat to read.Maya is the daughter of a very powerful Raja, who is constantly trying to keep a war at bay.
In this world, horoscopes are read like prophecies once you are born, and they are very important and very dependent on what your future will bring.Maya’s horoscope is one that promises she will be married to death, therefore many people in her community treat her awful.
This in no way has impacted my rating or review, but I just wanted to let you know what an absolute angel is she.
Wonderful mythic fantasy. Definitely recommend it!
ARC Review:  Inspired by Indian folklore and Greek mythology, The Star-Touched Queen is a beautifully written, captivating story luscious in detail and suffused with vivid imagery.
Maya, our main character, who even though she is feared and pushed aside by the rest of the wives and her sisters, she does not let their harsh words and cruel whispers dissuade her from seeking happiness.
As a demon horse she loves to eat people.
Full of revelations and a stunning conclusion, The Star-Touched Queen is a remarkable and imaginative story with Indian and Greek mythology woven into every last word.
Because she freaking (view spoiler)[marries (hide spoiler)] him four pages later.
Let me illustrate the circumstances to you: she's about to die because her father is an asshole, there is an attack to the palace, this hooded guy appears, offers to lead her away from the fight, she throws a garland at his neck (view spoiler)[(symbolic gesture that means they're married) (hide spoiler)].Go, strong-willed and smart woman seeking a life of freedom and independence.
It is beautifully written indeed, though I think the writing betrays a bit of inexperience (the narration is kind of blurry, the events seem to fade one into the other), and just at the end of chapter five we already have a plot-twist that fully convinced me to give the book a chance.
This was one of the most annoying and confusing books I've ever read with the most over descriptive and lyrical writing EVER.
This book is fulled of over descriptive and a shitload of metaphorical writing to the point where it's not beautiful, but so damn fucking annoying and irritating.
It's to the point where some of the sentences don't even fucking make sense.
That's just so damn over descriptive to the point where it doesn't even make sense and is just starting to sound so fucking weird!🔪The Plot: Oh sorry, I started to fall asleep and was #confusedaf???
“I promised you the moon for your throne and stars to wear in your hair," said Amar, gesturing inside.
2 Stars What a waste of an interesting combination of Greek mythology and Indian folklore. This book is the definition of purple prose. There was barely any plot, and what existed was buried under so many metaphors, hyperboles and pretty adjectives it was confusing as heck.Examples: “I love you," he murmured into my hair. "You are my night and stars, the fate I would fix myself to in any life.”  “I wanted a love thick with time, as inscrutable as if a lathe had carved it from night and as famili
“I wanted a love thick with time, as inscrutable as if a lathe had carved it from night and as familiar as the marrow in my bones.”
It’s literally fate guys, so they don’t need to talk, right?- Girl hate that barely impacts the plot and wasn't necessary - Inconvenient plot points that exist just to drag the story out.
- One of the coolest settings completely wasted when the last half ends up being a journey-story.
Other Pros:- It was pretty unpredictable - Talking zombie-horse who wants to bite people- Said horse's incredibly high sass levelsOverall:Needed more plot and more zombie horse.
You know those paragraphs that start off being about one thing and then go off and leave the original intent so far behind that you can’t remember what that same paragraph was supposed to be about in the first place?
The metaphors were so far-fetched and unrelated to the plot that I couldn’t see any reason for them being there except to confuse the reader.
Additionally, the book was also very predictable and I was left wondering why I hadn’t DNFed it half-way through.Now that I have complained about both writing and plot, let’s take a look at the characters.Maya is a blank canvas.
THE WRITING.
I CRY.Part 1 is SUPER confusing and jumps all over the place.
Through it all I still loved the main character, Maya, but it was hard to really love the story and get into it, though I was seriously moved by some of the passages.
Everything just seemed to be moving too quickly to make sense.
This is really where this book hits its stride.
The writing was GORGEOUS.
The plot seemed jumpy and choppy until the book hit its second part and then it all made sense and came full circle.
BLESS THIS BOOK.
The Star-touched Queen is surprisingly one of the best novels I have read this year.
I've read reviews which complained about the too flowery writing and sloppy world-building, but I found myself unable to fully understand such harsh criticism.
Seriously, the dilemmas in the story could have been avoided if she learned to hone her critical thinking skills.Amar, her love interest, inevitable reminded me of ACOTAR's Rhysand (everybody's favorite male character in YA).
^^Personally, I think that at its core, this book is not a love story.
Otherwise, I would have given this book a lower rating.Overall, I really enjoyed The Star-touched Queen, and I am very excited to read its supposedly amazing sequel (companion novel).
Like is there fan art of this book?
I want to see this thing COME TO LIFE.Like seriously when she goes down into The Otherworld I'm just like on that trip with her.
Like she was basically Alice falling down the rabbit hole into Wonderland but instead make it something of mythology and even more magical and crazy and beautiful and holy cow, can I read that for the first time again?Ugh, I can't talk good well right now.
Just sprinkle in a little Wonderland and pure, unyielding magic and this book is what you'll get.Seriously Roshani Chokshi writes so beautifully.
For example, (view spoiler)[Maya spends a significant amount of time, early in the book, worrying about her younger sister Gauri.
This sudden need to return the necklace to her presumably deceased little sister feels like it comes out of nowhere.Another example is Amar keeping the top half of his face cloaked for a considerable length of time after he and Maya first meet.
Maya makes several decisions throughout the book that have weighty consequences but devotes little time to contemplating her choices.
The Star-Touched Queen is a fount of missed opportunities and is best viewed as a light read that delivers a richly folkloric story through befuddling characters whose behavior feels erratic.
There, my queen,” he said. “A constellation to wear in your hair.”“My star-touched queen,” he said softly, as if he was remembering something from long ago. “I would break the world to give you what you want.” ** The Star Touched Queen is an ensorcelling bewitching piece of unicorn uber shittttt. No kidding. ^^**✏ I know I'm behaving in quite Aeergia( The only goddess I know about is the one who is famous for being lazy)fashion these days and being a bad friend, but I just had to tell everyone
“A constellation to wear in your hair.”“My star-touched queen,” he said softly, as if he was remembering something from long ago.
** The Star Touched Queen is an ensorcelling bewitching piece of unicorn uber shittttt.
✏ I have seen a lot of people label the relationship between Amar and Maya as instalovey and you can say I was surprised when a special word reincarnation came into the scene and it all started making sense.
You see they have been in love since the dawn of time,they just (view spoiler)[or just Maya (hide spoiler)] don't remember it yet.
I've only ever felt this way about The Love That Split the World and now this one.
This book is about a runaway princess who finds herself in a magical world that only existed in the bedtime stories she told her younger sister.
The story unfolds from there in a way that is both surprising and uplifting.Usually I'm a character-driven reader.
I almost always love or hate a book based on it's characters.
Yet, with this book I became stupendously wrapped up in the colors of the words, the vibrant, ethereal world built through the magic of the author's fingertips.
My heart and soul are in love with this book.
It had all the things I loved: Indian culture, post-marriage love story, fantasy, but it was really boring.
Update : Apparently, there was a reason for this but stillThere were like only 3 people in the castle which was really boring because I love me some side characters.
The book was like a poorly executed version of A Court of Thorns and Roses I did like the beginning when Maya was at her father's castle but it went downhill after thatWon't rate since I didn't even go half way (but i probably would not have liked it anyway)  Pre-reading This is a hit or miss with readers.
Roshani Chokshi paints with words. She is an artist, and this book is a like a gorgeous abstract painting - beautifully crafted and intricately detailed with a whimsical flair. Her artistry deserves nothing short of 5 stars.  “I promised you the moon for your throne and stars to wear in your hair," said Amar, gesturing inside. "And I always keep my promises.”   Reasons you should read this book: -Gorgeous and lavish writing- Memorable quotes that will make you think- Abstract, you'll have to div
She is an artist, and this book is a like a gorgeous abstract painting - beautifully crafted and intricately detailed with a whimsical flair.
“I promised you the moon for your throne and stars to wear in your hair," said Amar, gesturing inside.
Reasons you should read this book: -Gorgeous and lavish writing- Memorable quotes that will make you think- Abstract, you'll have to dive in hardcore to get the story- Beautiful, beautiful world and mythology - The romance is sweet - Gorgeous story similar to Hades/Persephone with but with Indian mythology that I LOVEDJust be prepared to read in between the lines!
maya is such an ambitious character who constantly seeks power and influence, and honestly, it was so refreshing to read about her amidst the plethora of YA fantasies with MC’s who somehow-conquer-evil-in-fantasy-books-but-would-get-completely-chewed-up-spit-out-and-stepped-on-irl.
smh-----I'm not sure whether I liked or disliked this book to be honest so I'm going to abstain from rating it until my mind is made up because I need time to process ??so rating and review to come-----buddy read with the lovely Rachaelthis cover is arguably the prettiest cover I've ever seen in any book and the content better be just as beautiful or I'll cry
Official comments: In one word: glorious. With vibrant, elegant language, Roshani Chokshi draws readers through a magical journey from one world to another, filled with dire horoscopes, reincarnation, and true love. THE STAR-TOUCHED QUEEN is incredible.Unofficial comments: Read this book if you like woooords. Beautiful, epic woooords. And amazing romance, stunning worldbuilding, and general amazingness.
The threads called, and I answered–it was too late to turn back now. .The Star-Touched Queen was a book that called to me. Having grown up on greek mythology and being swept up by the folklore of Koshchei the Deathless, there was something about fantastical, romanticized "death" that always piqued my interest.  “That night, I dreamed of locked doors and baying hounds, rooms that were night-dark and a beast-king that smiled and laughed around a mouthful of broken stars to sing one phrase over an
.The Star-Touched Queen was a book that called to me.
The Star-Touched Queen was no different.
I felt as if I was a child again, opening my giant book of mythology and being enthralled by its stories.
The Star-Touched Queen is shrouded in mystery and because of the book's unique storyline, it was impossible to guess what would come next.
It was like a wild goose chase for answers and if there is one thing that will always keep me interested in a story, it's my need for answers.I feel like this is a book that is either a hit or miss.
I was in the former category and truly felt like I was reading another fairytale.
girl got mad writing skillz.
Legends of a world beneath, above, beside the one I knew―where trees bore edible gems and no one would think twice about a girl with dark skin and a darker horoscope.”Holy mother of surrealism.Not only are the characters in this story so compelling and original, and the writing so well composed, but the imagery in this book is truly something else.
When I feel as though the details and secondary characters alone are palpable enough to uphold background stories of their own, I know it’s a damn good book.
I once mentioned that any book I give a 5 star rating to will also receive a playlist compiled by yours truly.
Review found at: www.awesomebooknut.comThis is a stunning captivation of an Indian folklore.
Shunned and disliked for her horoscope, Princess Maya takes pleasure in disobeying her Raja father with her lessons, listening in or political discussions dealing with the kingdom and finding small ways of mischief.
When her father announces that she is to pick her husband in a matter of days and marry him that day in order to save the kingdom she reluctantly agree only to find a way to escape before that event ever takes place.
Then on the moment she is to take her poison another suitor presents himself as a way to free and save her.
