https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8859.Death_of_an_Outsider
Another enjoyable cozy mystery set it the Scottish highlands, a nice breezy read along with a great mystery for Macbeth to solve.Temporary in charge of Cnothan, Hamish Macbeth soon realises that the locals are sceptical about outsiders, especially William Mainwaring who has ruffled a few feathers.Having been written during the late 80’s there was a few mentions of ‘poofter’ and aids, which seemed slightly jarring. I found myself cringing through them places...But overall found it to be an easy read, I liked that Scotland itself feels so important to this series.I’m still really enjoying these!
Will she keep that form all the way to her latest books?
Wonderful book!
I've never, ever read about the (a more acerbic version of) equivalent of Lestrade/Japp try to imitate the hero of the book and try to grill the suspects till one of them confessed!
And then with perfect timing, Hamish comes in and says : - All of you can go away.
The Agatha Raisin books are quite nice, but Hamish eclipsing them is a small tour de force.
But I'll be eternally grateful to the author for what I read today.
I am really liking this series - this is my third read of the Hamish series and each book surprises me with how much I enjoy the Scottish Highlands setting, the small town cast of characters, and the honorable, down to earth, and loyal copper Hamish Macbeth, who seems to march to a different drummer. I love the way he interacts with local people and deducts the murderous intents of all the suspects-what a great guy to have a conversation with! Looking forward to the next book of Hamish!
Death of an Outsider is my second foray into M.C. Beaton's series about Scottish policeman Hamish Macbeth.
I had only a small curiosity to begin with but then enjoyed my first read so much I quickly moved to a second.This is a series which, for me, proves what pleasure a series can give when it works.
Individually the books are enjoyable, but the pleasure of the second was far greater because I had read another.
And the town is also, well, pleasant.
The plot was good but it was the characters I wanted to be with although I'm not quite sure why.

In Death of an Outsider, Hamish Macbeth is exiled to chilly Cnothan with only his loyal mutt Towser after his nemesis Inspector Blair yet again takes credit for Macbeth's murder solving skills.
The circumstances of the murder wouldn't reflect kindly on Cnothan's most established businessman and Hamish's supervisors (including the ever lovely Inspector Blair) desperately want the crime to be hushed up and solved as quickly as possible.
Away from his beloved Lochdubh and the villagers who know him well, Hamish is miserable among the standoffish strangers of Cnothan.
They just keep getting better - can't put them down. I have no idea really what the appeal is to me. They are entertaining without being taxing is the best I can think of.I also really disliked the character that got murdered in this one!
A fast and easy read - this wee tome won't take long and will leave you satisfied.It's light (and at some times down right silly) but our hero is a likeable fellow with a keen eye for detail that just so happens to (along with his quick wit and a debonair flare) keep him out of trouble and in the ladies favours, all while solving some murders in his temporary fill-in job. Hamish Macbeth makes it all seem easy!
Of course Hamish solves the mystery (after a second murder is discovered, of the man who fished the corpse out of the tank).It was all a bit twee and I had trouble getting into it to be honest.
The idea that Hamish was willing to propose to the local artist after spending a few days with her (mainly to try and break his obsession with Priscilla), was troubling.Blair really got on my nerves - trying to cover the murder up so it didn't get out that the lobsters had eaten the victim.

A light, refreshing read. I finished Hallberg's sprawling, difficult "City of Fire" yesterday and M.C. Beaton's great characters and Scotland settings felt like a well-deserved vacation. Next I'm thinking of diving back into Proust, or perhaps the latest Houellebecq, "Submission", and thankfully I already have Macbeth #4 and #5 here at home on my to-read shelf for a return to Beaton's enjoyable, sometimes comical, world.
Hamish Macbeth wird als Vertretung in einen wahrlich merkwürdigen Ort geschickt: Alles Fremde wird misstrauisch beäugt, ein Einwohner liebt es die Nachbarn zu diffamieren und zu kränken. Da dauert es nicht lange, bis ein Mord geschieht und Hamish sich nicht nur mit den sturen Einwohnern, sondern auch wieder einmal mit Inspektor Blair auseinandersetzen darf. Neben den wirklich großartig gezeichneten Figuren enttäuscht am Ende jedoch die Auflösung des Falls, die einfach mitgeteilt wird, ohne dass der Leser am Erkenntnisprozess beteiligt wäre. (Dezember 2017)
I enjoyed this much more than the first two books of the series.
Many of the same elements are there, but by moving Hamish MacBeth to another village to fill in for a vacationing colleague, M.C. Beaton somehow shook things up so that this book felt very different from the previous ones in the series.
It was interesting seeing Hamish on new romantic territory and when the murder was being related I simply couldn't imagine how anyone was going to unravel the series of events.I only hope she can hold this note for the next book, which I assume happens back on Hamish's home turf.
Hamish Macbeth, local policeman and mystery-solver extraordinaire, is seconded to a nearby town to run the police station while its usual inspector is away. Faced with an unfriendly and taciturn population, Hamish struggles to win the trust of the townsfolk when the local rich landowner is found dead and Hamish doggedly pursues the murderer. I like this humourous series; Hamish is quietly brilliant and one can't help but like him.
Now and then you just have to stop and read a short British/Scottish, small village murder mystery before moving through your reading list.
Based on the first three books of the series (reiterate from previous two reviews also), I assume following will go forward in the series:--The writing just rolls along, making the book easy to read.--It is Scottish.
My two years living in England gets me through most without problems, but there are a few Scottish words/phrases that loss me.--Her first book I complained of her shifting view point.
If I had any doubt, this book confirmed that the big reason I keep reading the series is Hamish Macbeth.
Beaton did use a fairly original plot device this time, and I liked the side plot with Diurmiad Sinclair (another strong character, which seems to be her strength), but other aspects of the story were only OK.
I laughed several times, and Hamish is always a kick.
With all the accents, a story like this really comes alive in the mouth of a gifted reader.
Another fun book about Hamish Macbeth, a lazy, unambitious constable in Scotland.
He is sent for three months to work at another village; this one populated by a dour, sour group of people.
If ever there was a man wanting killing, it's him.
He is murdered in a rather gruesome way.Macbeth plods along, seemingly outside the police working the case, asking questions and getting people to talk to him.
He shrewdly analyzes people and finds answers.
This is a fun, delightful series.
The murdered one always needs killing and there's always plenty of suspects.
The people are inventive and quirky.

For some reason, I keep spacing these out for a long time... long enough that I forget that I have them. While I really like hardcore murder mysteries and thrillers (with one or two exceptions,) I like these because the main character, Hamish Macbeth, is so small town easy going. Ha, does that make sense? He gets in there, talks to everyone involved, finds clues, and gets the job done, so that the bumbling chief can take the credit. Not my normal fare, but I really did like this one, and would recommend it to just about anyone. <><
Death of an Outsider by M.C.BeatonI'd read plenty of Agatha Raisin and I thought it was about time I investigate Hamish Macbeth. I'd never seen the TV series so I had no preconceived ideas about what the man would be like, but I was pleasantly surprised. The character of Hamish Macbeth is likeable and you want him to succeed in solving his mysteries. All of the books have the same strong plot that the Agatha Raisin collection has and as always I never work out the ending.
Death of an Outsider - GoodBeaton, M.C. - 3rd in seriesNobody in the cloistered Highlands town of Cnothan, where Constable Macbeth is on temporary duty, had liked the abrasive Englishman, William Mainwaring, and now that he's been murdered no one much minds.Enjoyable but light. This is one series where I actually preferred the BBC television series over the books. Never thought I'd say that!
I enjoyed reading this quickly. I'm familiar with MacBeth and Priscilla, and enjoy following their encounters. The outsider was prickly and I wasn't sorry to see him go, though his death was a bit grotesque. The twists leading to the solution to the murder were easy to follow and still entertaining.
This is another just okay fluffy light read for me. I did think it was interesting to see Hamish chasing after a different girl after his constant rejection by Priscilla. I feel like this was a bit lost on me because I didn't quite understand certain Scottish customs and laws which were key to the actual murder, but I did enjoy the Scottish scenery and fun characters.
Poor Hamish MacBeth hasn't got a lick of sense when it comes to women. Other than that, this is a wonderful tale that's slightly darker than the first several of the series. Several characters return, and some new ones definitely test Hamish's patience and moral fortitude. Another satisfying whodunit set in the Scottish Highlands that I enjoyed very much.
My first foray into the delightful and deadly wilds of Northwest Scotland and its cranky crofters and anti-English sentiment. Hamish Macbeth is not a high-up at Scotland Yard, but a local constable with a feel for subtle questioning and for the politics of his department. You can almost smell the sheep and the heather.
This one wasn't as gripping as the first two I read. Hamish wasn't in Lochdubh and I missed the quirkiness of the place, as well as the characters there (though some made appearances). Still an entertaining, short, cozy mystery.
I am hooked on M.C. Beaton mysteries. Both series, one with Hamish Macbeth and the other with Agatha Raisin are fun and atmospheric. Quick reads, most of the books are under 200 pages. A bit more racy than typical cozies; murder mysteries with a dash of sex and some outrageous situations.
I love these little books! They are perfect! Davina Porter does the Scottish accents so well! Can't wait to listen to the next one!
I am unapologetic in my love of all things Hamish Macbeth.
