https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8492.Prophet
My Mom had me read this book when I was in High School.
I'm so glad she did, it really changed my life.It's the reason I don't watch the news on TV, ever.
It's the reason that I still feel like news television is just a really great soap opera.Granted, being 15/16 years old and reading this book is going to make an incredible impression on you, but this is one of those books that stuck with me through the years and changed my entire way of thinking.
This book will enrage you, but it is still worth every dime.
This was a struggle that I'll admit I could not finish. Poor plot and suspense writing that traded off with evangelical preaching. I'm not against Christian or other religious novels, but this one did not master the technique of religious writing for entertainment value and the general population.
I'm not certain this story would stand up to rereading, but it did me incalculable good service as an early teen: in parallel with its plot, it cogently argued that the combined structure of market forces and federal regulations in the U.S. makes television the weakest of journalistic mediums.
The triple threat of politicized oversight, competitive ratings, and investment (from advertisers and shareholders alike) makes it simply impossible for broadcast television to get any closer than "news-based entertainment" to the ideals of journalism.
IF you liked this book, you are going to like Peretti's newest book, Illusion.  If you liked Peretti's other works, such as The Oath or the Present Darkness series, the trend in reviews seems to indicate that you won't enjoy this as much. In Prophet, Peretti hits the mark with his development of relationships. The characters are real and you can feel their hurt and their hopes. Peretti does a good job of making you want them to win and to heal; this book seems more personal than his others. If y
If you like reading about grand, melodramatic battles between good and evil, this story isn't going to sate you.
(view spoiler)[ The ending was also depressing--mainly because it featured the typical fate of most prophets.
I'm wondering if Peretti interviewed at least one real prophet because he hits some aspects of that "curse" right on the nose.
However, for those who do suffer from such a curse, it would have been nice to read about a prophet with a happy ending.
(hide spoiler)]This story was especially personal to me in that I have been unfortunate enough to be in the wrong place at the wrong time too many times and I've seen news happen.
Peretti's books are hard to get into...really slow in the beginning.
Although, his books always finish with an amazing ending.
Same goes for Prophet.
Prophet was an interesting read.
Very theological.
Throughout the entire book you follow the story of a TV anchorman, a reporter, a rebel son, and families and friends dealing with death(s).
All the time you are asked the question: "What is Truth?" and if a person finds Truth, do they tell the world and not care what people think...or bury it?
Deals with some other interesting issues: abortion and consumerism - just to name two.
Premise/plot: Prophet is a novel about the media, about reporting news, about politics, about biases, about balancing what do people NEED to know, what do we want people to know, and what do people think they need to know.
The hero of The Prophet is a anchor man on the news.
Gosnell was a SHOCKING true-crime nonfiction read.
Prophet is also about tense relationships between fathers and sons.
Our hero, John Jr., has had a terribly rocky relationship with his own father, and he has an extremely bad relationship with his own son.
Wow. This book really penetrates the surface of worldly views and digs into the reality of the news world and the abortion industry. Although it was a bit of a slow start (hence 4 stars), the author built up the plot skillfully, coming to a riveting and dramatic climax. Often very tragic but at the same time eye opening - this is an exhilarating read!
John Barrett in Frank E.
What seems to be a case of religion against politics soon turns into a possible murder case and medical malpractice.This story dares to delve into a controversial topic, but does so from the anchor desk of a top notch media center.
How these every day decisions affect the personal lives of the characters gradually become apparent as the story winds its way through the media maze.After reading my way through the initial development, the characters placed a hold on me and didn’t let go until I read the last word.
This book is very different from the previous ones that I had read from Frank Peretti, because there are no angels or demons, neither dragons but a lot of journalistic chaos and a lot of description of the management of the TV. It was a very realistic story about the day in journalism, about how the information operate and the power groups. I found the characters most human and real (despite the supernatural gift of John Barrett) and as always, Frank Peretti makes every good story has a good message. I totally recommend it.
This is the powerful tale of John Barrett, anchorman for NewsSix, who not only catches his producer fabricating a story and lying to cover her tracks but he hears voices as well. Barrett's father's death is beginning to look suspicius and his son wants to get under his skin. What could be more exciting than another of Frank Peretti's strong, face-paced stories of spiritual warfare. Highly recommended read.
Peretti has written a story that's more than fiction. News reporter/anchor John Barrett lives in a make-believe world until his father is murdered, but not before Dad passes on his spiritual mantle to John. He then sees the faces and hears the voices behind the physical features of persons and resolves to help the suffering.
RESEÑA COMPLETA
An amazing look into the abortion industry and the toll it takes on individual lives. I loved it. Probably my favorite Peretti book. First read it in high school and have re-read it several times since.
A true read! The apple doesn't fall too far from the tree.
Everything by this author is utterly 'splendid' :P
And when the book plays around with ideas of superficiality in culture and news as entertainment, the book feels, well, prophetic.
The book is pretty preachy and it paints its villains very one-dimensionally, men-hating feminists, promiscuous pro-choice activists, etc.
Peretti does create two really great characters who are on the side of the truth of the cover-up being revealed that are pro-choice, however, so that’s something I suppose.
They’re actually two of the most interesting characters in the book, a newsroom boss who finds himself caught between the corrupt big brass and the loose-cannon reporters, and a crusading female reporter who won’t be swayed in her convictions about being pro-choice.
*** This review is for the unabridged version only.
I may have given it more stars if I had read a more condensed version.***I think I was hoping for a book with more spiritual drama in it, like This Present Darkness.
While I appreciate a little mystery and that kept me going, there was so much technical description of the news aspect of it, I really felt the story was bogged down.
It also helped that I was on the right side of the issue discussed, but the book was definitely too drawn out for me.
Poorly developed storyI'm reviewing this book from a readability standpoint. From start to finish this book felt rush, yet dragged on at the same time. In quite a few places it seemed like something would happen just because the plot demanded it. I kept reading thinking that there would be a plot twist at the end. However the ending almost as much of a disappointment as the rest of the book. I've read quite a few Frank Peretti books and this is by far his worst.
Really enjoyed this book. It is interesting to see that much of what was going on even 10 years ago when this book was written is still hot trigger topics today. I think it also sheds light on the relevancy of the bible and how we really need to listen to the warnings and pay attention to the lies we believe and the truths we cover up. It is easy to get swept away into a world that is lost without realizing it. Glad to have read this at this time.
I thoroughly enjoyed every page of this book. As per his style, Peretti grabs you from the first page. Even though it was written in 1992, it uncovers the corruption in the media and in the government. There were many times I wanted to share a story of something that had happened with someone, only to remember it was in this book I was reading. To me, that’s the best kind of book: you feel like it’s reality.
Don't read this book if you're pro-choice. Peretti is the exact opposite. The entire plot is the cover-ups of an evil abortion clinic, and it suffers from the constant reminder that abortion is very, very bad. Now, even though I am pro-life, I got sick of "the evils of abortion" rant, but plowed through to finish this book.
Reading this book during midterm election time made this extremely interesting. I have always enjoyed Perretti’s books but this one was very timely considering present day politics and the news industry! I very much enjoyed this book because it was a great story and he always brings a Christian message across.
The life chosen by us is not necessarily the life we're destined for. Fame battles right. Relationships change who we think we are and make us better. This book has a bit of everything, and I found it very encouraging.
Murder, corruption, cover-ups, and a search for the truth. Frank Peretti never disappoints! This book was given to me by my daughter who knew I would enjoy it after reading Peretti's The Oath. This book engaged me so much, I finished it in 4 days even though it won't let me put that below.
This book left me... unsettled. The entire time I read it, I switched between loving the message and just being ridiculously horrified by what was within. It was powerful. It was great. It hurt to read it. But it's a necessary addition to Christian fiction.
This book could be the best one Frank Peretti has ever written. It is spot-on in the issues it addresses, and he wrote it in the early 90s, which only makes it all the greater. All these issues are hot topics today, and he hits the nail on the head.
His co-workers worry: Is this because of his father’s recent and mysterious death?John Barrett, Junior, wants nothing to do with the "religious kook" image of his father.
He just wants to grieve his father’s death and get on with life as before.But those voices won’t let him.As John tries to reconnect with his son Carl, the mystery deepens and questions begin to rise to the surface.
When I read of the weeping voices that only John can hear, I remembered oddly similar moments in my own life.
Hard to put downI liked the morals and Christian values of the book and didn't like the wordy descriptions. It's hard to put any Frank Peretti's book down. He's and excellent writer.
Honestly, I liked it.
This is the second or third (or more) time I have read this book - and I still find it grips my attention.
