https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3580.Pat_of_Silver_Bush
This is such a sweet innocent book about growing up and friendship! <3
The main thing I want to say about this is that Jingle's name is not Hilary. Hilary is a dreadful name for a boy and he will always be Jingle to me. Thank you and goodnight.
While those two series still hold special places in my heart, I must say that I am baffled by Pat of Silver Bush.Most of Montgomery's stories are about young women, usually pre-teen through late twenties, tacking adverse situations with grace and brains.
She has no desire to change or grow or even to leave her family home.
Pat's resolute desire to avoid change would baffle even Tzvetan Todorov.
She is the most boring and depressing heroine in a Montgomery book I've read.Pat as a character is apparently redeemed in the last chapter of a follow up novel, Mistress Pat (1935).
I however have no desire to spend any more time with Pat and her beloved home.
I relate to Pat very much. <3 This story is a gem.
Pat and Judy Plum, and perhaps Jingle, are the only fleshed-out characters in the book.
Even Bets, Pat's very best friend, has hardly any dialogue and seems no more than a beautiful wraith.That said, Pat herself and the cook/maid/second mother Judy Plum are pretty vivid and enjoyable.This book does beautifully capture the warmth of a happy home.
This makes sense when you add in some context from L.M. Montgomery's own life.The Pat books were written later in her life, when she was caring for a mentally ill husband and trying to do the best she could as a minister's wife, far from her beloved PEI.
It's probably not going to be one of my favourite LMM novels, because Pat as a heroine is a bit too passive, her main characteristic being resistance to change and so every conflict in the story being the result of outside forces.
But I still find Pat an endearing and likeable heroine in her deep love of nature, things and people, and Judy Plum is a deliciously entertaining character.
It took me about a quarter of this book to really get into it, because at first I didn't particularly care for Judy Plum, Pat herself wasn't very interesting, and the rest of the family seemed to be glossed over.
The main interesting part of the narrative was Judy Plum's stories, but I wasn't sure how much I cared for them.
I enjoyed how Pat was her own unique person, but somehow she didn't seem as strongly developed as Anne and Emily...but then again, I still have the sequel to read!
It's a delight to read something so old.If you're a fan of Lucy Maud Montgomery, you'd have to be living under a rock not to know that several readers throughout the decades have called Pat Gardiner her worst heroine, but to me she's the best!
Judy says, 'If ye can't be believing anything, what fun are ye going to get out of life?' I love her.There's always someone with a sad or dysfunctional family background in LMM stories, and this one belongs to Pat's friend Jingle, aka Hilary Gordon, my favourite character.
Although I like almost everything L.M. Montgomery ever wrote, I have to admit that the Pat books are not my favorites.
Pat Gardiner lives with her family at Silver Bush, an old house and farm on Prince Edward Island.
Unlike Montgomery's other heroines, Pat has no ambitions other than to stay at home forever, taking care of the home and family she loves.
Happily, there are other characters who are more engaging (the old servant Judy Plum and Pat's sister Rae are probably my favorites), and Montgomery's affectionate descriptions of Prince Edward Island do make up for a lot of Pat's (and Pat's) failings.
For a while, when I would read L.M. Mongtomery's books, it seemed like each heroine I read about turned out to be my new favorite from all her books (first it was Anne that I fell in love with, then Emily, then Valancy, and most recently Jane – who at this moment still takes the cake).
I think the last few pages of the chapter allowed me to see a bit more of Pat when she talked so vividly about the house cat, Gentleman Tom (who Judy says was 
Montgomery could create impressively lifelike and memorable characters with very simple strokes of the pen, and while she limited that to a chosen handful in this story—antagonist May Binnie is as flat as the paper she's written on—among that chosen handful are some of the best Maud ever imagined.The crown jewel of these is Judy Plum, live-in housekeeper, family caretaker, and superb storyteller.
An artist in the kitchen, in her storytelling, and in her rug-hooking, Judy rivals any Montgomery character for pure fascination.Pat Gardiner doesn't lose the limelight, however.
They were realistic to me, and Pat has such a love of home and the familiar, and then there are so many unexpected twists and turns in the plot, like real life, that it was endearing.
And then when it grows back in curly and a darker color, well, I was just fascinated by that to no end.There's just something so resonating in L.M. Montgomery's descriptions of home.
And the ending of this book is pretty powerful to boot, considering what Pat overcomes regarding that dreamlike life.
In my opinion, the Pat books are right up there with the Anne series at the top of Montgomery's list of works.
Pat loves her home of Silver Bush: the kittens that are forever infesting the barnyard, the secret field she discovered with her brother, the trees that have stories to tell, and--of course--her family.She hates change.
All ultimately part of Silver Bush.Even Pat is forever changing.
She will never leave or stop loving Silver Bush.I've read a great many L.M. Montgomery books over the years.
This one, however, I had yet to read when my mother and I had the pleasure this summer of trekking our way to Prince Edward Island for a week of "all things Anne." Naturally, one of our very first stops turned out to be at Silver Bush--the house where the author was married.
I loved Pat of Silver Bush!
M. Montgomery, I've grown up with, but Marigold, Jane, and Pat were somehow passed by in my girlhood reading lists.
:) It's a delight to find that Maud's books are as enchanting to discover at nearly 20 as they were at 8.This one was brimming with folklore in a way that gave it a slightly different feel from the others I've read.
It was a joy to read.
Poor Pat doesn't seem to be the most beloved of Maud's heroines by any stretch.
:) The love of Home really, really resonated with me.
The first 115 pages can be summed up in 3 sentences - Pat hates change.
Pat loves Silver Bush.
After that the story gets moving better as Pat gets older and her world expands a little.
The story also lacks a wide breadth of characters to take some of the focus off Pat's more annoying traits.
Her siblings and parents are names on the page with very little filling out.
The only character who equals Pat in development is Judy Plum.
While the character of Judy is likable her words are written in such a heavy Irish accent it makes it difficult to read.
No Anne or Emily, but damn do I love some L.M.
A bit slow, but very insightful on people's feelings. I love how Pat loves everything, including her great friend Jingle.
I enjoy descriptive prose as much as the next person, but this story had WAY too much.
The first serveral chapters are little more than descriptions of the house, the trees, the fields, the people, etc.
I really enjoy a couple of the characters, but I found Pat herself to be somewhat annoying.
She seems to grow very little over the course of the book.
One character in particular I felt had no redeemable qualities and existed solely to torment poor Pat. I also found Judy Plum's character a difficult one to read.
4.5 The beginning of the book was a bit slow, but it improved with every page. Such a delightful book to read, so lifelike and so Montgomery. A book to hug.
Montgomery's fictional world is beautiful, her heroines are so endearing and Montgomery's places vibrates with love and life.
No one can build a home as wonderful as Montgomery's home, made of words.And "Pat of Silver Bush" is a novel about a home.
Pat does not only think of Silver Bush as her home, to her it is the entire world.Pat isn't adventurous or ambitious.
Hillary builds houses, but he can't build a house for Pat, as she simply wants a home.
A new favorite. RTC
Pat does not like change.
For myself, never having had a home for more than a few years in a row, made this a little hard to relate to.
But the supporting characters offer a lot the the story.
And Jingle is also a favourite, shame on Pat for seeing him as just a friend.
Bets is a little too good, but I guess Pat needed at least one female friend.
It’s nice that for this story, Pat isn’t an orphan, isn’t particularly bright, and doesn’t want to be a writer.
It offers a welcome change from Anne and Emily.
But for me there was something missing in the ending--not that she had to accept Jingle's love and give him hope for the future, but I guess just to not be so close-minded about her future prospects.All in all, I enjoyed reading Pat of Silverbush, and I might try reading Mistress Pat at some point in the future, but I don't think it will be one of the L.M. Montgomery books that I will read multiple times.
I HATED PAT, BUT I SAW WAY TOO MUCH OF MYSELF IN HER AND IT WAS THE FIRST THING THAT REALLY MADE ME THINK 'IF I DON'T GET HELP, I'M GOING TO END UP LIVING AT HOME FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE WHILE EVERYONE ELSE GROWS UP AND LEAVES'.THE ONLY CHARACTER IL FROM THE PAT BOOKS IS RAE, AND SHE COMES IN LATE IN THE GAME AND LEAVES EARLY.PAT IS TRUFAX THE MOAST MEMERISH OF LMM CHARACTERS.
As Judy the Irish voice of wisdom and humor in the books says, Pat had the gift of loving.
Her intense love for so much of what other people didn't even notice brought her a lot of joy and also exquisite pain; yet I think Pat was happier than other people and other people were revitalized by associating with her.
Pat and Judy expand our understanding of the the gifts of the Spirit and make the usual list of talents a little more "diversified."The other wonderful thing about this duo is the author's honest portrayal of the painful growth we must experience if we hope to produce good fruit.
I love this book!
And every time I read one of her books, I am reminded to be more aware of a grateful for the beautiful world around me.
I have to say a word about the book's sequel, however.
It's still very funny and there are plenty of things that Montgomery always does well that I always enjoy.
(spoiler alert) I find that fact that it took Pat 11 years and her entire life burning down around her head to realize she was in love with Hillary Gordon to be unforgivable.
Hillary was so wonderful!!
for a little while, this book had me quite worried, because i thought i was going to have to give lucy maude a one or two star review, which simply seems sacrilegious.
in the end - like, literally, the last fifty to seventy-five pages or so - it got better and i actually sort of liked it, but goodness gracious.
getting there was sort of excruciating.
pat is just a really difficult character, in the sense that i was incredibly annoyed at how insipid and twee she was for most of the book.
but, even though i had to plod through the first part of the book, i'll still probably read the sequel ...
Not LMM's best either - it takes quite some time to get into it.
It gets better when she meets Jingle, and Bets, and when she grows up a bit.
The second half is definitely better.It is interesting to read in light of the info I got while reading Magic Island: The Fictions of L.M. Montgomery, though.
About how LMM was depressed and dreadfully homesick while writing it for her Island and the home where she had been so happy as a child...
It made the book much more poignant.
I know authorial intent isn't supposed to matter but it did enhances the book for me.
I discovered Pat, after finding Anne, and Emily, and while she isn't my most favorite of Montgomery's girl heroines, I have read this book several times now...Pat, like many of Montgomery's girls is a nature lover, is imaginative (though not as much as Anne Shirley), and unlike the others is very much a homebody.
I always find Pat of Silver Bush a little hard to get into at first.
The first few chapters miss that sparkle L.M. Montgomery manages to put into all her books, but is well worth finishing because the further into the story you get the better it becomes until you are left wanting more at the end.
Pat is a true home-body.
But change can not be stopped and as it begins to invade Pat's little world, she learns that it is not always a bad thing.
The end has left me excited to start its sequel :)
