https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2920877-the-trail-of-blood
Baptists are not protestants because they were nver in the Catholic church. Baptists have an unbroken line back to Christ and the apostles. They are the true champions of religous freedom because they never used the sword to persecute others. Baptis history can only be traced in blood.
Every quotation in the book is false. The book cites no primary sources. This is not history; it's propaganda.
This booklet is a stretch to say the least. The groups that are included as part of the 'trail of blood' were heretical, as some didn't hold to the Trinity or didn't even believe in Christ's divinity. So, yes, the Church did reject these groups, just as Baptists/Protestants would today!For a better history of the Baptist Church read "Baptist Successionism" by James Edward McGoldrick. This Baptist author proves point-by-point why "The Trail of Blood" is far from fact.
After reading Fox's Book of Martyrs, this read was swift, and help bring the particulars together.
I was already aware of the Baptist doctrine being Biblical in its closest form.
I really enjoyed this read as a history major, as a theologian, and church history student.
Between Fox's Book of Martyrs, and The Trail of Blood, it helps bring Western Civilization, and American history into perspective.
It clarifies the misunderstood and incorrect application of "Separation of Church and State" which is not in the Constitution.
Breaks my heart for misguided papal religion that is not of God, but a man made religion.
I absolutely loved this book! It is a brief look at 2,000 years of church history that traces the roots of the Baptist church from the time of the Apostles to their decision not to join with the other churches that became the Catholic church, from the martyrs during the Dark Ages to the persecution in the New World. The fundamental doctrines held now are the same as those found in the New Testament churches. It is a good, quick read for anyone looking for a brief history of the Baptist Church.
Short history of Babtist denomination. Shows that Baptists are not reformers because they were never in the Catholic church
5 Stars“I first read this book along with "Why Be A Baptist" by Boyce Taylor and "The Church That Jesus Built" by Roy Mason back in the sixties.
I have never gotten over them.
God made me a Christian by conversion.
He made me a Baptist by conviction.
Just as there is one way of salvation, even so, that is the way it must be when it comes to Christian service.
None of the different denominational ways of service can be right if they do not agree with the old landmarks of the New Testament pattern.
Excellent overview of Baptist history, focusing on the many persecutions Baptists have faced, particularly during the Dark Ages in Europe and during early America. Stars removed for the form, as it was not written as a book but as typed up lecture notes; and for the complete lack of supporting citations for the detailed factual assertions (though there is an extensive bibliography).
I really enjoyed reading this small booklet. The trail of blood is the blood of Christians that gave their lives to be persecuted by their enemies. By the way the persecutions continue for those who are willingly to give their lives for the gospel. A recommended reading for all those who call themselves Christians.
A great history book of Christians and what they went through to get where we are today. A short book easy to read can be finished in a few hours.
This little book originated from a series of lectures Carroll delivered on the topic of church history attempts to establish the perpetuity view of Baptist history.
Here the author makes the claim that his forthcoming relation of the history of what he considers the true church is "little known." This is a surprising statement considering the considerable scholarship that had been invested in the topic at that point from Eusebius onward.
Thus the author lumps a divergent range of movements together into one group he identifies as "Baptist." Needles to say, historical accuracy is sacrificed in favor of advancing the case for perpetuity.
This is one of the most thought provoking books I have read on the Baptist faith.Though this book is short on details and specifics it gives an excellent overview of Baptist history. This is a great place to start if you want to study Baptist history. There is an extensive list of books cited at the end of the book to help you on your way to learning more about the struggles Baptist have overcome to become the faith we are today.
A brief overview of Baptist history. Oversimplified. Maybe a good primer, but there are much better books available on church history.The chart is cute though.
Good little booklet on the history of Christianity and the Ana-Baptists. It's easy to read in just a few hours.
Great ResoueVery informative text about the true founding of the Baptist Church. I highly recommend this to any student, serious or casual.
This little phamplet purporting to prove that the Baptist Church is descended directly from the apostles and John the Baptist is long on speculation and short on facts.
Such comments as found in this booklet are likely to lead to an exclusionary climate towards other true believers.
The author’s claims about the beginnings of the Baptist church are as unfounded as the claims of those who believe in KJV onlyism.
I see no real benefit from reading this little booklet as it seeks primarily to denigrate other Christians and foster misguided claims about the Baptist church-of which I am a member.
Baptists are NOT Protestant.Baptists have always been outcasts to man made religion. We believe the Bible and only the Bible. And that, the King James translation. The Bible is our organizational tool. Jesus Christ is center. And the death, burial and resurrection is the saving grace . Not works or baptism. I now know American Baptists were also persecuted. Think things will get better? Not in this world, and the devil's religions.
This short book was given to me by a Baptist friend of mine. A Trail of Blood begins with explaining Baptist theology and by claiming the New Testament Church was Ana-Baptist and was neither Catholic nor Protestant. The book continues to explain church history from this perspective claiming most persecuted groups to be the true Ana-Baptist Christians. Ultimately I found the scripture proofs for their polity and sacramentology unconvincing as well many aspects of their view of church history.
Interesting history of Christianity The author reviewed the historical independent churches throughout the time from the apostles to today. A series of lectures covering this time period in segments gives a synopsis of each.
Revisionist history at best and (more likely) rationalized self-deception at worst. To put it bluntly, this book is full of unproven assumptions. Save your brain cells and skip this book.
As the one uploading it to Goodreads says....
I heard about this book in Sunday School when it was stated that this book claims that Baptists are the original New Testament Church and never came out of the Catholic Church.
I had never heard that assertion and had never heard of this book.
It is actually more like lecture notes than a book.
Although there is a list of books at the end, the author does not back up any of his assertions with sources.
Finally, his assertion that Baptists were the "original New Testament church" does not mesh with and completely contradicts volumes and volumes of orthodox, accepted church history.
Filled with popery of a noxious sort to try and say that Gnostics (Montanists, Albigenses, etc) and Paedobaptists (Donatists, Novatians, etc.) of Church History while dissenting from the Catholic Church were in fact Baptists, such a claim. The idea of succession which is steeped in popery has no place in the Baptist churches.
On the Trail of Blood chart - in all caps (not me) - THE RED CIRCLES REPRESENT BAPTIST CHURCHESThis is completely false, nor would Baptists want this to be true, since many of these movements were involved in heresy.
This book is so liberating especially to those who are still in the bondage of false doctrine and religion.
Historically inaccurate!
A history seldom toldHistory has been blurred in many areas. This book helps bring into sharp focus those areas regarding religious freedom and church history.
