https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/680154.Invincible_Louisa
If you think Jo was brave, painfully shy, adventurous, imaginative and indefatigable, wait till you meet Louisa.The author of this little biography, first published in 1933, only 45 years after Alcott's death, can sometimes say "it was told to me" [by those who knew someone who knew Alcott, as in the case of Alcott's older sister's daughter-in-law] and Meigs does write with the immediacy of someone sitting down to tell you a story that was told to her, along with a bit of 'rambling' that might cause the timeline of the family's frequent house-moving to seem confusing.
As much as I have always loved (if not even with all my both childhood and adult heart adored) especially Louisa May Alcott's Little Women (and its sequels) and as much as I also do consider her family (and her rather extraordinary and unconventional life) both interesting and intriguing (as well as much worthy of extensive study), this 1933 (and thus early) biography by Cornelia Meigs (which I do realise won the 1934 Newbery Medal) leaves me for the most part both emotionally and coldly unsatisfied and rather majorly annoyed (and so frustrated I might add that I have actually tried to read Invincible Louisa at least three times unsuccessfully, and have only now managed a complete perusal because a friend wanted to discuss and analyse the book online with me).I guess that first and foremost, it is the author's declamatory and often almost prayerful narrative style that I simply cannot stomach, as it tends to permeate rather strongly throughout and to both distance and distract potential readers from the content, from the presented themes, from the featured characters.
1934 Newbery Medal winner.I'm a big fan of Louisa May Alcott and her writings, her most notable novel being Little Women, among many other great books and stories.
I think by reading this book and learning more about the Alcott family's history, you're diving deeper into Little Women at the same time.
Of course, he was a dreamer, and he attempted to do many different things in his life, but I personally don't think it was as glamorous as this book portrays.One of the reasons this biography is particularly interesting to me is that it's not a modern day researcher who wrote it.
Page 98 is the first mention of her publishing any writing and Little women, while certainly not her only noteworthy effort (not even my favorite) is not mentioned till page 200, a mere 41 pages before the end of the book.On page 184 there is discussion Louisa having a ‘close male friend’ this is AFTER the Civil war, and LMA was born in 1832, so she was in her 30’s or 40’s by this time.
The book begins with an introduction to her parents and their life growing up until they meet and marry.
It then covers the span of Alcott's life and her work as a nurse, teacher and writer.
The reader gets to know all of the real life people behind the beloved characters of Little Women and what inspired Alcott to write the book.
This is not a riveting book but for those who loved any of Alcott's books growing up will enjoy getting to know the writer who was the real Jo March.
It has inspired me to re-read the Little Women and her other works.
I am thankful that I read Little Women before reading this biography.
So much of Alcott's personal life went into her novel.
And so much of the resonance of this biography depends on familiarity with her work.
Growing up surrounded by Emerson, Thoreau, and Hawthorne, it is little surprise that Alcott was able to channel this privilege into a profitable writing career.
While flawed as a biography, this book is quite readable and pleasant.
Fans of Little Women are likely to enjoy this peak behind the pages.
And they are likely to forgive the florid writing style.
I found myself on the verge of tears at several points, but what really resonated with me deepest of all is the story of the injured boy, when Louisa May Alcott is working as a nurse during the Civil War. His dream of Kit's reemergence (and I won't give away any more of what this means than that) struck me like a bolt of lightning, and stays with me emotionally to this day, and will forever after.
Cornelia Meigs has crafted the story to read more like a fictional account than a regular biography, and in my view she has done this with with awesome, breathtaking mastery.
I wish I had read this when I was younger.
It's a bit sanitized for my adult mind.
Nevertheless, as a long-time fan of Little Women and an admirer of Louisa May Alcott, it was a pleasure to read.
I enjoyed seeing which parts of one of my favorite books stemmed from real life.
I also learned some interesting facts about Ms. Alcott which only served to increase my admiration.If you have a lover of Little Women in your home, this would be a great book for them.
Especially if you're trying to encourage a little reader to branch out into non-fiction.
I loved this book. I learned so much about her. I now want to reread all of her books. So much of what she wrote was from her life. I want to find those connections. Just loved it.

I think the writing style feels similar to Little Women, though it's been at least a decade since my last reading.
I wish I could be as generous in my view of Louisa's father as Meigs is -- he seems like a ninny who did nothing but cause his family trouble with his impractical ideas, and got nothing but love and support in return.
Some of the articles I read online suggest Louisa was not as totally emotionally supportive as Meigs indicates, which makes sense to me -- when your family is starving and your father is not only not helping support you, but actively giving your resources away, it can't breed a lot of respect for him.
Why this book is underrated:1.
I love Meigs' Dickensian sentence structure.
It perfectly fit the subject of the book.
As Meigs tells the story, you get to find out all the biographical events that Alcott fictionalized in Little Women.3.
However, Meigs tries as hard as she can to spin him as a sympathetic character without hiding his many failures from the reader.
The parts on Louisa Alcott's teen years and young adulthood drag a bit, then the parts on her writing career are fascinating.
Cornelia Meigs maybe slowed down a bit in the middle, but she came through with what I was looking for by the end.
Reading the real-life story of Louisa May Alcott was like reading about Little Women in a parallel universe.
Most of the story of Little Women reflects the Alcott's real life, even down to the weekly pillow fights between four rambunctious girls!
Throughout the book is the one thread of the story arc, that Louisa wanted to write to make money to take care of her family.
She is exactly like Jo March, and no wonder that fictional character is so beloved just as the real Louisa was loved during her life.
What a delightful old edition, 1933, a biography of Louisa Alcott!
I read this and other Cornelia Meigs bios when I was in junior high school during the Little House on the Prairie Day :)!
My bookie friend, Tricia Douglas, reviewed this book favorably so I requested it from our Library, and low and behold - they had a copy with the old fashioned card envelope on the inside cover.
What a delightful "read" about this aptly described invincible and I might add independent woman!
Absolutely LOVED rereading this timeless biography!
On my first visit to the middle school library in 6th grade, I checked out "Little Women." The librarian, looked at me skeptically over her tiny, librarian glasses and said, "I think this might be a little too hard for you.""You don't know me," I thought, but did not say.
I was painfully shy, but super sassy in my head.When Louisa May Alcott's father gave one of her stories to a friend of his in publishing, the man said, "'Tell Louisa to stick to her teaching,' the gentleman said kindly.
Cornelia Meigs basically worships Louisa Alcott.
Someone who wasn't quite as worshipful might not have held back so much on Louisa's father.
Whether your father has amazing ideas or not, he still shouldn't shovel his responsibility onto a young girl; especially when you consider the severe inequality in wages between men and women at that time.
The whole time you are left thinking that perhaps other people in Louisa's life should have stepped up to the plate a bit more.
Her father gets to enjoy this nice long life because he's been waited on by his daughter and she gets to die in her fifties.
This is a fascinating biography of Louisa May Alcott--and has inspired me to read more of her work this year!It was a bit slow to get into but once I got going, I loved the easy style and storytelling of this biography. What a difficult and joyful life Louisa led! I think the Newbery honor was well deserved for this book. A great way to begin my reading this year!
I enjoyed it.I would have enjoyed it more if the writing hadn't been so odd. Sentences were broken up in really weird ways, but hey, at last there was some variety. XD I grew up reading Little Women over and over, and it was quite interesting to see all that went behind it.
This book could also lead to good discussions about the genre of narrative nonfiction, and highlight elements of story (including flashbacks and attention to mood and themes) that differentiate this biography from other nonfiction books that are more strictly concerned with presenting unembellished facts.Perhaps an even better application of this book than as a language arts aid, however, would be as a social studies jumping-off-point.
If students are using this book for their language arts classes, social studies teachers will find it to be a great jumping-off point for discussion of 19th-century America, and an exploration of how American culture has changed since Louisa’s time.
I have long been a fan of several of the books by Louisa May Alcott -- especially "Little Women." Who isn't a fan of that book??
Several years ago my four daughters and I fell in love with the movie adaptation of the book (Wynona Ryder plays the part of Jo).
Then, two years ago my husband and I went to Boston on vacation and while reading a brochure of things to do in the area, my husband found that Louisa May Allcott had grown up in Concord and tours could taken of her home.
That the subject's story is the least bit compelling through the stultifying prose is a good testament to her life and character.A couple examples of what I'm talking about:"A great adventure was just beginning, and strange, bright hopes were darting and lifting everywhere, just as the swallows had so long been darting and soaring about the eaves and above the great chimney.""Courage, terror, dismay and relentless determination were all in her heart as she heard the hollow rumble of the wheels on the covered wooden bridge and knew that she was actually launched upon the first enterprise of seeking her fortunes single-handed."The sentence structure was universally cumbersome thanks to the author's massive reliance on the power of commas to break up the narrative flow.
Events were overly dramatized with heavy-handed supposition and themes.
In how many ways can one author say that Ms. Alcott's family was poor in money but rich in everything that mattered?
My Reading Challenge was to "read a biography-not an autobiography or memoir" (Read Harder), and because I have an interest in reading the Newbery Medal and Honor books, I chose this, a biography of Louisa May Alcott which won the Newbery Medal in 1934.
Yet, Louisa via Meigs worships him.
That's really the overriding theme of this book and of Louisa's life: the love of family and her quest to ensure that finally they are well enough off.
I'm sufficiently intrigued to add an Alcott book to next year's Reading Challenge.
I’m not a big fan of Little Women (heinous, I know), so I wasn’t too excited to be reading a biography of Louisa May Alcott.
This read as a pretty disjointed biography on top of that.
I found a groove after the book discussed Little Women being written, so I imagine that’s when her life was more accurately documented, and that's when the author had more information to mold.
(view spoiler)[ And the last chapter was cruel in tricking me with a title of “happy endings” (or something like that) and then killing lots of people.
(hide spoiler)]This is not a bad book, and I've liked Cornelia Meigs' other works.
I’ve often heard little stories about the Louisa of this book, Louisa May Alcott, but I’ve never read much real information about her.
Louisa grew up in a family determined to change the world by actively living their beliefs.
She was best known as the author of Little Women.As interesting to me as Louisa May Alcott was her father.
He barely made enough money to feed his children, yet he felt led to always give what little he had away to help others.Louisa provided the only income the family had for much of her life.
What a family!
Newbery Medal Winner--1934This was such a nice change from the international-historical fiction that has dominated these early Newbery winners.
I don't usually enjoy biographies, but this was so incredible--mostly because of the incredible life Louisa May led, and the fact that you see flashes of Little Women throughout her life.And what a life!
From growing up in poverty to having family friends like Emerson, Thoreau, Longfellow...even reclusive Nathaniel Hawthorne!
If you love Little Woman, you'll love this heartwarming look at the author's life (she IS Jo, people...like...seriously).
My first four-star Newbery from the early winners!
This was a great early Newbery Award book in which I learned much about Louisa May Alcott, her family and writing. Such an amazing author with much stamina to take care of her family and become so involved in the situation of that time. The author, Meigs, did a wonderful job of analyzing LITTLE WOMEN and discussing how the characters in Alcott's books related to Louisa's family. I read this book for my GR Newbery book group. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I enjoyed this biography of Alcott. While I think it put a nice spin on her father's inability to provide for the family, I do think it pointed out the hardships the family endured because of this inability. So, in my opinion, it wasn't completely skewed. It was interesting to read about the relationships between Louisa and her family as well as the relationships between her family and so many other renowned people of the time, particularly Emerson.
Just one of many books that makes me wish I had a daughter to pass it on to. Confession time for me: I use to stay up late at night, writing in my journal, pretending to be Jo March ;) What a great role model for young women...and I just love the sisterly relationships and of course, the beloved "marmee"!
Fairly enjoyable and quick, but overly worshipful, and quite the Bronson Alcott apologia. Like Carry On, Mr. Bowditch, this is a fairly standard children's biography--but I think this might have set the standard for the others.
AMAZING! Beautiful and revealing story of the life of Louisa May Alcott. What a person she was! No wonder this book won the Newberry! Told in such a way that we can feel the things Louisa felt!
