https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35521.I_Me_Mine
I've read this book countless times.
Anyone who wants the intimate details of George's personal relations, some scuttlebutt on Paul McCartney, or other types of ankle deep nit picking won't find it here.
We read about George's history and interests, brief mentions of his enormous cast of friends, and details on each song.
Derek Taylor's editorials are delightful.
It's easy to love Derek right alongside George.
I wish the pair had lived much, much longer, to enjoy more wry humor and garden strolls, and also (selfishly) an updated copy of the book.God bless George.
If you, on the other hand, expect to get a little closer to Harrison, understand him at little better and learn more about his views of life, other people and death while he also lifts a little on the lit covering the secrets of how one of the world's greatest songwriters ever handles his craft; then you are in for a treat.The first part of the book is Harrison in conversation with his friend Derek Taylor ("an English journalist, writer and publicist, best known for his work as press officer for The Beatles"), after Taylor has briefly introduced himself and how he got to know Harrison and the other Beatles.The major part of the book (and for me the pièce de résistance) is a lot of Harrison's lyrics - all introduced (some more briefly than others) by the man himself.
George Harrison tells in his own words about his life with and after the Beatles.
He takes his music seriously, but is not afraid to parody himself and the Beatles as his collaboration on the Rutles with members of Monty Python proves.
Harrison had to fight for his space on the Beatles records.
Two of the Beatles biggest songs, "Something" and "Here Comes the Sun" were Harrison tunes.
Lots of interesting stories here as one might imagine from a member of the Beatles and buddies with Eric Clapton.
The one known as "the quiet Beatle" has a lot to say in this book.
Maybe John and Paul were superior songwriters in terms of quality and overall output, but George wrote some of my favorite Beatles songs: “While My Guitar Gently Weeps,” “Here Comes the Sun,” “I Me Mine,” “For You Blue,” “Within You, Without You,” “Something,” “You Like Me Too Much,” “If I Needed Someone,” “Savoy Truffle,” “Love You To,” “The Inner Light,” “Only a Northern Song,” “Old Brown Shoe.” This output was great enough that I can forgive him for the amusing, but slightly self-indulgent commentary that is “Piggies” (though I did find it amusing while reading this book to discover that George’s mother contributed the line, “What they need’s a damn good whacking!”).
As autobiography, this being the only attempt at the form by any of the fabs, it’s terribly disappointing.
The first section is comprised of ‘anecdotes’, some of them interesting, recalled by George in taped conversations with Derek Taylor, the Beatles’ publicist and apologist.
To these George adds comments about how each song came about, again, some more interesting than others, usually in a paragraph or less.
This lengthy section contains commentary on many of George’s lesser works, and there are plenty of those in his solo career.
So I guess it’s natural he came up with a patently unrevealing autobiography.
This is a true story.
Last month I bought myself a copy of George Harrison's Concert for Bangla Desh, coz I had never bought this on c.d.
+ it was a Unicef donation, which was cool.Anyway, the other day I lift this book off the library shelf to read.
Only half a dozen chapters of recorded George, talking about his childhood, Liverpool, Beatles, his soul and racing cars.The book contains a photo section, mainly pics I've not seen before, and a section on his song lyrics, with some explanations of how they were composed.It's only when I'm into the book that I discover it's the 25th of February.
Happy birthday George!

I am a huge fan of George Harrison and was so excited to read this book.
You had to keep flipping back and forth to read what the sketches and photos were of.
I was also looking forward to reading all about George's songs.
That too was disappointing as for the majority of them all George had to say was where or he was when he wrote the song and when it was, or what chord or instrument he used.
There were a few in which George did delve into the meaning behind a song, but not for the most part.This book could have been so much better..............
The first half of the book is a strange mélange of commentary from George Harrison's second wife Olivia, a friend named Derek Taylor who conducted a number of tape recorded interviews with George from which he quotes, and those quotes from George Harrison himself.
George writes some amazing music, but I wasn't expecting an autobiography to be half song lyrics; I was expecting it to be all about his life.
I feel like I learned more about his life (at least his early life and fame) from reading his first wife Pattie Boyd's autobiography.
Not your typical memoir, "I, Me, Mine" is comprised of some anecdotes and then, for 3/4 of the book, lyrics (handwritten and printed) and brief descriptions of Harrison's songs.If you aren't well-versed on Beatles lore, you might be disappointed. I am, therefore I'm not. I wouldn't mind owning a copy of this book for the lyrics alone.
I loved this book when I first read it - some 20 years ago - and I really enjoyed revisiting it in "Extended Edition" form. Such a great, and understated concept.
George Harrison a former beatle, shows his life through his own words, pictures and summaries of what his songs actually mean.
we are inside these bodies, the actual being of our subconscious, our minds, mentality, our source of life, just everything.
I just love the analogy that George uses, when he says, "I am not George," and precedes with the line above.But other than that, he lived a very giving life, one that let him enjoy the casualties of everything.I do wish like many people before me that the book contained more than lengthy pages of pictures and the actual pages he wrote the book in.
I decided to read this book after I read A Hard Day's Write: The Stories Behind Every Beatles Song by Steve Turner.
Most of the quotes Turner used from George in his comments on songs came from Harrison's autobiography, I Me Mine.
If I had to describe Harrison's autobiography in one word I would say it's artsy.
The reason I think it's artsy is because it doesn't read like a normal autobiography in that there's an ordered sequence of events.
The second half of the book contains photos with commentary and copies of songs in Harrison's own hand.
The first third of this book is spectacular and really incorporates Harrison's love for spirituality, India, songwriting and life.
The second third is mainly photos.
I guess if you have a crush on George -- these pages can be interesting, but did little for me.
I like the photo on the cover of "ATMP", visually, I don't need any more of George.
I'd rather hear his voice or listen to his fingers.
It's helpful to flip through, if you're curious behind some of the meanings of his lyrics or where he was in his life when he wrote a particular lyric.
What can't you learn from George Harrison? This is his self proclaimed "little ego detour", neat perspective on an amazing life. Awesome to read his background on all of the songs he wrote and the handwritten pieces of paper they were all written on. All in all a really cool read. I have heard there is a limited edition, leather bound edition of this book that is hard to come by; it is officially on my list of expensive gifts I would never ask for.
This was a pleasantly surprising "quick read." The first part of the book (about 75 pages) was Harrison's recollections from childhood, Beatlemania, and his spirituality, with help from Dereck Taylor. Then some photos and then reprints of Harrison's lyrics and the stories behind those lyrics for about 80 songs. ...Now excuse me while I go give "All Things Must Pass" another listen!
Sweet George, in his own words. I especially loved the careful recollections of his songwriting...how the lyrics emerged and took shape.
I miss George... more than I have ever missed John.I feel somewhat guilty about that, but I rated his solo work and his more unasuming personality.
very interesting to read about the "real" George who considers himself a gardener aboe all things.
The next two portions of the book are a fun collection of black and white photos and the texts of 80 of George’s songs, some of which include pictures of his original handwritten notes.
A reprinted version of I Me Mine includes a very sweet introduction by George’s widow, Olivia, who refers to George as “the man I dearly love,” and reminds us of her husband’s spiritual strivings and his Zen style of looking at life as all-encompassing and impermanent.
If you're into his rambling on about Krishna and his Indian philosophy and religious outlook (based on that Indian philosophy) on life, you'll probably think he was a holy man who is now in the pantheon of the Indian gods chanting "Hare Krishna" and preparing for his next life here on Earth.
After the first section, it was kind of boring and I found myself wishing I had waited another 12 years!Strictly for the Harrison/Beatlemaniac who can't get enough of them!
Thirty-eight years later, here I am again, with a beautifully-made extended edition, essentially encompassing every song of his career.Harrison's modest, everyman personality shines through on every page of the book.
He was never my favourite of the four—that honour goes to their troubled front man, Lennon—and I could never buy into Harrison's spiritual beliefs, but I gotta say, I do respect the man for not only living his values, but also taking the risky career move of letting those values shine through in his work.Yes, he's a bit trippy—more than I remembered—but then again, so was Lennon, and a hell of a lot of others who came up through the Sixties.But this?
The book is written in the form of conversations with its real author Derek Taylor, journalist and Beatles press officer/inner circler since their Britain days.
George discusses his childhood and complains about Beatlemania, offering a few good stories taking place during the latter.
As the youngest Beatle, it's amazing what George experienced at such a young age.
The other half is filled with concise commentaries on his songs, alongside prints of handwritten lyrics.
You don't need to know all the songs to enjoy his anecdotes.
A bit of religious philosophizing throughout as George was famously Hindu.
Overall a real treat for Beatles fans.
I was a bit disappointed by this book.
There was a small section of discussions with Derek Taylor that covered much of his life, but very briefly at best.
The last, and largest sections were his song lyrics - typed out, and copies of the original scribblings, and a brief commentary on the songs themselves.
While the song commentary was interesting, there was not much of it and the majority were the scribbles and typed lyrics which were redundant.
As a Beatles fan, there was suprisingly very little of those times covered in the book.
I'd read the original, but my lovely wife got me the Extended Edition for Christmas.
Now, if you're looking for a good George Harrison biography, this is not the book for you.
It opens with Hari musing on a few topics with friend Derek Taylor, but you're not really going to get any organized sort of history here.
If, however, you want a lovely volume that reproduces George's hand-written lyrics, all the way to the end of his life (thus "extended"), along with a lot of commentary on the songs, I believe you'll enjoy this.
Just like George.
This book is an excellent glimpse into the man and his music. There are many pages of original handwritten lyrics on whatever was available.Likewise, there are many pages of photographs, several by German photographer and long-time fan and friend of tThe Beatles Astrid Kircher.If you're looking for details of his Beatle George days, you'll not find that here. What you will find is much more in tune with the real George Harrison, a man for whom Beatle George was a costume he wore for a while.
I give this four stars because there are only about 79 pages of autobiography. The rest of the massive book presents his song lyrics and there are short paragraphs on what inspired him to write them. I would have liked more of a true autobiography. There are some good photographs as well.
Not as much biographical information as I would have liked.
Typically George Harrison. His personality lives in this unique book structure. Purposely fragmented, no straight read-through. Refreshing, even if different. Great insights on his songs’ lyrics.
George was truly one of a kind.
