https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1267690.Double_for_Death
DOUBLE FOR DEATH.
**1/2.This was not an episode in the Nero Wolfe series by Mr. Stout, instead it was a mystery featuring his alternative hero, Tecumseh Fox. There weren’t very many of them, so we can be thankful for small favors.
I suspect that Mr. Stout was looking at his competition and the sales figures for their books, and wanted to be in the show.
I think that there is only one more Fox novel for me yet to read – and then I’m done.
I’m glad that Stout didn’t insist on doing more of them.
I borrowed Double for Death eBook from the Toronto Public Library, virtual branch, thinking it was a Nero Wolfe mystery, not knowing Rex Stout had written another series starring a different kind of detective called "Tecumseh Fox." A bit of a surprise when I read the Introduction and discovered not Nero Wolfe.
Given Stout's command of the language, the plot, the clues, I think this is deliberate, that Stout wanted a character as mysterious as Wolfe is obvious.
how long is the series, I should look!) to find out more about Fox.The plot itself is engaging, with enough realistic twists to keep one reading.
Not bad, and the setting/setup is interesting.Tecumseh Fox is not Archie Goodwin, but I actually think he's sufficiently similar to Goodwin to make Fox in some sense a somewhat superfluous character in the Rex Stout universe. Stout could easily have written a very similar story with Archie (and Wolfe) as the main protagonist(s).
I am an unadulterated fan of Nero Wolfe and therefore Rex Stout, or perhaps the reverse is true.
Double for Death is the third non-Wolfe novel of Stouts that I’ve read and I fully enjoyed it.
Like most of the other Stout books I’ve read I didn’t figure it our until the end, after Tec did his work.
Tec gets involved in solving the murder of Ridley Thorpe, twice.
He also has to help Mr. Thorpe set up an alibi for the first time he gets murdered.
Well all I have to say is read the story and enjoy.
Rex Stout had many different characters throughout his career.
Only Nero Wolfe lasted the longest.
But Tecumseh Fox had three.
Stout liked the first appearance and always considered it an excellent detective tale with all the right pieces.
One of Fox's associates is an idiot and his actions/inactions almost led to the wrong people getting arrested.
But still a good change from Nero sitting at home and only thinking.
Fox is all over the place acting in his own behalf and getting somethings right and some wrong.
Looking forward to catching the other 2 with thia cast of characters.
I've read most of Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe books and was glad to learn that he wrote a small number of mysteries with a different detective. Tecumseh Fox is an intriguing character, and his rag-tag retinue adds further interest. There were a few more characters in the story than I could readily keep track of, but I enjoyed the various clues and twists. (The plot involves a stand-in for a celebrity, which apparently appeals to the same aspect of my personality that makes me fascinated by twins and family resemblances.)
While I really enjoy the Nero Wolfe books, and I can understand why Rex Stout eventually stuck with that series over the Tecumseh Fox one, I do wish there had been more Tecumseh Fox stories.This is a nice little mystery, with a decent twist to it. There's a lot of background stuff going on to hint at other story lines from Tecumseh Fox that never really come to fruition.Overall, this was a satisfying read, although sad when I realize there won't be more of them.
When a millionaire businessman is killed in his remote getaway cottage, Andy Grant becomes the main suspect. His niece Nancy enlists famed, and eccentric, detective Tecumseh Fox to find the real murderer. Fox is not quite as quirky as Stout's more famous detective Nero Wolfe, but he also delights in confounding and confusing the local police and district attorney, which is all the easier when the dead man comes back to life.
This is my first Rex Stout book, and it was a great mystery. Fast-paced, easy read but with lots of twists and turns. You can just imagine one of those great old B&W movies with Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn playing all these great zany characters. I don't think my local library has the other Tecumseh Fox books so I may need to try some of the Nero Wolfe books instead.
Tecumseh Fox is an interesting character and the story starts off strong enough before getting hopelessly bogged down in the tiresome questioning of the official police and then more or less fizzles out.
Worth ReadingI agree with Rex Stout, that technically, this is the best detective novel he wrote. Though not as flamboyant as Nero Wolfe, Tecumseh Fox has his own intrigues.
The best thing about a Rex Stout book is the sparseness of his prose. He tells a great story in only a couple hundred pages. Short, sweet and action-packed!
read SOMETIME in 2001
Having read a number of Stout's Nero Wolfe series, my wife and I enjoyed this new character, Tecumseh Fox. Wolfe is still our favorite, though...
A very different detective for Rex Stout, Mr Fox almost appears to drift through chaos. Overall an entertaining tale, with a more explicitly romantic thread than the Wolfe stories.
This is not my favorite genre--the detective ala Sam Spade. But the story/plot got me hooked. It moved quickly and was enjoyable. The murderer was a surprise.
Tecumseh Fox is main character. A lesser Rex Stout novel.
