https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5204.We_Were_the_Mulvaneys
When they crack open the coffin next to JCO's earthly remains they'll find a neat 600 page typescript of the new novel.
JCO does the same except when she SLURPS up something, in its place there appears another neat 600 page typescript.
Five pages about this cat's kidney problems and no pages about why the father can't stand to look at his daughter after she's raped.
As one Mulvaney child says about his family late in the book, “It’s like things are in code and the key’s been lost.” There are lots of passages that ring true if you’re part of a big(gish) family.
The author also has an annoying habit of repeating phrases in italics, supposedly to suggest subconscious thoughts but too often feeling like a lazy shorthand saying, “Look, look, this is significant!”Still, I don’t think you read Oates for the line-by-line beauty of her prose.Late in the novel she gets deep inside the head of the book’s ruined, alcoholic patriarch, and it’s a terrifying, sad and completely convincing section, the best in the book.
Based on this, I would advise anyone who wants to “study” (that is read the novel, get all you can out of it, and write a really incisive review, which I know I have not done) take notes as they read, particularly noting dates that things are said to have happened, when they run across them.But rewarding because I found the structure of the story, though it reads smoothly, is exciting, and is quite frankly a wonderful sort of book for “Oprah’s Book Club”, is at the same time disconcertingly and unexpectedly complex.
Who doesn't desire his father's death? Fyodor Dostoevsky<<2.5 stars>>I want to write a few words about this novel while it's fresh on my mind instead of moving it to the back of my review line. A first point would be that Oates could have shown what she wanted to show--the disintegration of a seemingly typical family--in three-hundred pages instead of four-hundred and fifty plus. Besides its verbosity, the chief problem I had with the novel was that Oates kept trying to make the poi
Besides its verbosity, the chief problem I had with the novel was that Oates kept trying to make the point that the family's downfall was not due to "any one person's fault." It was no doubt set in motion by the date rape of the daughter by a guy who attended high school with her and one of her three brothers.
I didn't get any indication (despite how much Oates seems to go on and on and on) that the parents believed their daughter was not credible or that she was "asking for" the rape, no matter how illogical such a belief would be.Daddy Mulvaney is eaten up by resentment, and certainly that isn't unrealistic, as the reader watches him become a cancer to the world around him, including to his family.
Although the book is basically about this event and the aftermath, it takes about 100 pages to actually get to the plot.
Most chapters had this basic formula: Narraration of some memory a character had/an extensive description of what the Mulvaneys ate for breakfast or something + finally going back to the present in the last few paragraphs.
Despite the extensive explanations of the Mulvaney family, and what I thought were undeveloped characters (the narrarator, youngest sibling Judd, was always stressing how purehearted and "good-Christian" his sister Marianne was.
Marianne was really a little too good and delicate and pure for a human being), the author's writing style was excellent.
“Quali sono le parole giuste per riassumere una vita, tanta affollata confusa felicità che si conclude con un atroce dolore al rallentatore?” si domanda il narratore del romanzo.
Allora c’è che comincia a bere, chi scappa, chi si arruola nei marines, chi si camuffa per non vedersi più come era prima: ognuno si difende come può, in modo scomposto, distruggendo sé stesso e la famiglia.Joyce Carol Oates ci descrive dettagliatamente i meccanismi che scattano in ciascuno dei Mulvaney in seguito all’incidente, ed è la parte più riuscita del romanzo, sebbene, come ho detto, sia troppo minuziosa fino all’eccesso.
The Mulvaneys: Gold Medal Winners for Bad Parenting I've read reviews by those who think this book is "what happens when a horrible event poisons a happy family" or something similar to that. Uh uh. Not quite. This book is all that, PLUS two ferociously bad parents, who stick to their ferociously bad parenting, and learn nothing, all through their journey.(Forgive me if this review sounds catty, I'm still kinda pissed off.)The Mulvaneys start off well. Michael Sr is so good looking his vivaciou
I've read reviews by those who think this book is "what happens when a horrible event poisons a happy family" or something similar to that.
Sort of, because his narrative voice comes and goes - I was a little bit confused by this, actually.They're a rowdy, loving bunch, all adorned with nicknames ("Curly", "Pinch", "Button", "Whistle" and the like) and accompanied always by a gaggle of animals.
It's the sick-ass parenting of good-lookin Michael and feisty Corinne that screws everything up.
Michael drinks; Corinne puts her red, spiritual head in the sand.
4 Reasons "We Were the Mulvaneys" was a true and deep disappointment:1) I had already given J.C.O.s my full endorsement after reading "Zombie", a speedier version of "American Psycho" and "The Tattooed Girl", also a speedy version, this time of something long and droll by the likes of Roth.
This much time invested in something should reap benefits, no?3) I am ashamed to be seen reading anything baring the "Oprah's Book Club" stamp, but I must say that I am never truly deeply disappointed by the selections.
(Is this the very reason the club dismantled and lost the cred????)4) You read a book to reach its conclusion, and the author's brave effort to astound is plainly seen.
I really needed Joyce Carol Oates to give me a break on this one. I was still reeling from the horrible experience I had of accidentally reading part of "Zombie" but I was prepared to try to forgive her. But even though no one in this book gave anyone else an ice-pick lobotomy, it was entirely devoid of any heart, hope, or mercy. I just don't need this in my life - there's nothing about this book stylistically that elevates it above its oppressively miserable story.
I was leaking enough that I actually had to put the book down and go grab some tissues.This book is very emotional, not just with how it makes the reader feel, but with how it's written.
It's probably the same thing the Mulvaneys are feeling by the end.
It also makes the book that much harder to put down.I've read Foxfire and want to reread it now, but I remember it's tone and style being extremely different from We Were the Mulvaneys.
I would love to hear your opinions on Oates other works as well as what you thought of We Were the Mulvaneys.
5 "This hurts" Stars!!!!
I still do…more so now after having read this book.This book is….something.I guess a lot can be said about a novel that makes you feel such strong emotions on such a varying range.
Victim blaming is a real thing and it happens every single day.
She just goes about her life thinking this is just the way things are and she never seeks help for the emotional damage that is so evident to the readers.The end of this story infuriated me more than anything.
Of course you do because you don’t know any better and it’s making me angry for completely different reasons!
L’orgoglio precede la cadutaAbbandonatevi a J.C. Oates, lasciate vi porti a spasso dagli anni ‘30 agli ’80 e che decida lei quando fare un’anticipazione, indugiare su una descrizione o sulla genesi di un soprannome.
Però molta gente non lo è.
(Quindi non dovete gongolare, è ovvio)e altri in cui mi stupivo che la voce narrante maschile appartenesse in realtà a una donna, tanto era verosimile.
Lo Oates è brava con le sue inquadrature in campo lungo, da fuori, ma soprattutto in quelle da dentro.
Riti, manie, debolezze e lessico, finiranno per farvi sentire uno di loro, non li dimenticherete.Come colonna sonora scelgo: Sweet - Love is like Oxygenhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kRVwcP...
I was just nearly through writing a review of this, and Goodreads crashed and I lost it! We Were a Review of We Were the Mulvaneys. :-(
Joyce Carol Oates gets in the vicinity of that fire.We Were the Mulvaneys is a book that moves over the unwinding and dissolution of a family like a discriminating hand over braille.
Joyce Carol Oates introduces a 6 member family at their peak.
They all make the worst decisions, the most defeating choices.If you don't like chapter after chapter of hate, fear, guilt, anger, impotence, rot, and self-immolation, then you will score this book lower than 3 stars.
If you're like me, and want to snoop on these human conditions, you'll have to score at least 3--if not more--stars.
This book made me furious.
I'm temporarily living in Princeton, and I told my housemate I'd like to track down JCO and throw it on her lawn.After 400 pages of unremitting misery, suddenly everything turns sunny again and there's a happy ending.
Jeez...I think the term for this is "deus ex machina." The "machina(s)" ("machinae") for these five main characters were:1.
the Marine CorpsThe Chicago Tribune characterized this book as demonstrating something along the lines of "the abiding ties of love," or some such crap.
Give me a break.Confidential to Joyce Carol Oates: enough with the exclamation points to show that a character is excited or enthusiastic or whatever.
This is a story of how one terrible incident poisons and disintegrates a 'perfect' family.The Mulvaneys live on a farm in New York - there is Mum, Dad, Mike (eldest son), Patrick, Marianne, Judd (youngest son) and a myriad of animals.The story is told by Judd (he is now a journalist) over 25 years but it is not his personal story - more an exploration of each of the members of his family.
(hide spoiler)] but overall this book was worth reading although I can't describe it as enjoyable.It is worth noting there is an interesting side theme concerning the animals and their roles in comparison to the humans.
(view spoiler)[ I love that Muffin stays by Marianne's side no matter what happens.
So when one of my most wonderful GR friends chose this book for our group to read, I knew I would finally be able to share this experience with some of my best and most respected reading friends.
Even though I thoroughly disliked the book, I think it was a great choice for our group read.
I just had to keep my big mouth shut until everyone started reading it (and I did!).I do like JCO, but I feel that she is at her strongest as a short story/novella writer.
I haven't read a long work by Oates that I've liked yet (and them was probably just as bad as this one).
Come avessimo vissuto così, a nostro agio l'uno con l'altro, per i quattordici anni in cui ci eravamo persi.We were the Mulvaneys è la storia della società americana che caratterizzava una certa epoca, ma prima ancora è la storia di una famiglia perfetta che subisce un colpo, la perfezione s'incrina, tocca terra, e poi si spezza.
È la storia straziante del disfacimento di una bellissima famiglia, dei motivi sociali che portano a tale disfacimento e della forza necessaria per ricostruire, per andare avanti.È superfluo dire che questo romanzo mi è piaciuto tantissimo.
Qui siamo nel primo caso pur non escludendo la scrittura fluida e ricca della Oates, una scrittura molto americana che mi ricorda parecchio Irving.
2.5 stars.
This has only been my third contemporary author on my To-Read list this year and, unfortunately, my first literary disappointment as well.
With regard to contemporary authors, I have admittedly been spoiled in 2016 by Alan Hollinghurt’s and Colm Toibin’s skilled penmanship, and it might have been a mistake to expect Joyce Carol Oates’ prose to be in the same league with these great British and Irish authors.
Alas, my first Oates was not my cup of tea: Overwritten, with a storyline all over the place and a character development that was not convincing to me, this novel gets only 2.5 stars from me.
I wasn't expecting We Were the Mulvaneys to be so dramatic and mysterious, but once you start reading it, it's impossible to put down. Some of the characters were rather unrealistic at times but otherwise I really enjoyed this book.
But if you are looking for a writer at the top of her game, taking the time to set her story in intricate, though necessary, settings of place, plot, character and backstory, then by all means take the journey Joyce Carol Oates is inviting you to take.I have read others say that Oates spends too much time on minutae, the definition of which is certainly in the eye of the beholder, that she should have gotten on with the story.
i think there are novels that should be long stories.
i liked the movie brokeback mountain by proulx [sic], but her short story was a lot better.
at times the movie dragged and that was because it was too long.
where in stories like "where are you going, where have you been" she communicates so much in a matter of pages, i think she communicates so little over the matter of a novel.
and one third into this book that is clear and we read about it for another few hundred pages.
Amato, odiato, divorato, prolisso, bellissimo, angosciante, irritante, tenerissimo, minuzioso, essenziale, respingente, affascinante e soprattutto: impossibile da terminare.Sì, perchè questa famiglia e il suo "lessico familiare" sarà impossibile dimenticarli.
così difficile ma così semplice quando intuisci come entrare nella sua visione, nel flusso e nella sua scrittura.Affascinante iniziarlo, difficile leggerlo, semplicissimo terminarlo e, infine, impossibile staccarsi da questo romanzo.Con pretesti vari dopo averlo iniziato ho inframmezzato la lettura con parecchi altri libri, poi l'ho proprio accantonato certa di avere una meraviglia per le mani, ma nel momento sbagliato,Infine due giorni fa l'attrazione è stata fatale.
Non ero arrivata a metà e mi sono buttata letteralmente a capofitto.
Faticosa la Oates, ma non richiede sforzo, ammacca e ripara.
Oates sets up this loving, slightly quirky, seemingly perfect family but it's clear early on that a Bad Thing is going to happen.
Happily Ever After usually ends before the Boy and Girl (or whatever permutation you're working with) even have kids, but that idyll - the one Corinne and Michael Mulvaney seemed to have before Marianne's dress was irreparably ripped by a drunken adolescent - is what everybody wants.
The Bad Thing has the power to break us, and for much of the back half of We Were the Mulvaneys, it seems to have broken every last one of them.
There is a wonderful, close, warm family and the daughter, too-good-to-be-true Christian is brutally raped, but refuses to press charges.
The rest of the book tells how that action--that supposedly "good" action, or nonaction--tore the family apart.
The father was so guilt-stricken that he couldn't protect his family, that he eventually banished the girl.
It seemed more like an author manipulating her characters.
I thought the one chapter, late in the book, written from the now-derelict fathers point of view, was brilliant.
And I liked how the family rose from the ashes once the rotten tooth of the father was out of the way.
I was suprised at how long it was...nearly 500 pages...but I was excited to finally be reading it.
In this novel, Oates tells the story of a near-perfect family...mom and dad in love, 4 loving siblings, all living in a small town on a farm filled with love and animals.
When I finally finished the book, I just felt incredibly depressed.
The ending wasn't payoff enough for watching this family which has once been so loving and happy, tear each other and themselves up and ruin years and years of their lives.
I am surprised by all of the people who say that the father's reaction to the girl after she is raped "doesn't make sense".
They don't seem to be aware that his reaction is typical of a man's reaction in such a situation, when a woman or girl he loves, and feels he should have been able to protect, has been violated by rape, she becomes a symbol to him of his failure as a man, to protect that which he most loves, and most holds sacred.
This is a realistic story of an otherwise happy family destroyed by violence against one of it's members.
A Valentine's Day dance that goes terribly wrong.
Starts with a ripped dress that ends up ripping the Mulvaney family apart.
While the writing was beautiful, and tragic all wrapped together, I found this one hard to get through and harder to pick up and finish.
The book was so depressing and just seemed to keep spiraling further and further downward.
I was so angry with the way that this seemingly perfect, all- American family handled the situation that tears them apart.
The parents- Corinne and Michael Mulvaney Sr were ones that I wanted to punch at times.
This book starts off slowly, with sweeping descriptions of the landscape and the perfection of the Mulvaney family's idyllic life on their farm in upstate New York.
It picks up, though, and the real story begins as the family's perfect facade is destroyed.
Essentially, this is the story of how a single event, and our reactions to it, can shape our entire lives.
The attacker is never brought to justice and the shame surrounding the event causes Marianne's parents to send her away to live with a great-aunt.
The family is never quite able to overcome the shadow of the attack, and their story is heartbreaking.
