https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15762322-20-000-leagues-under-the-sea-and-other-classic-novels
Featured in my Top 5 Jules Verne Novels: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fV_87...Hands down the best adventure story of the 19th Century, better than The House on the Borderland, better than Gordon Pym, better than Conan Doyle's stuff. (HG Wells doesn't count as 19th C, come on).
For science fiction written in 1870, it retains a remarkable freshness and Verne created a very compelling character in Captain Nemo.
Verne was well-acquainted with the science of his day and it shows in his work; it's a lot stronger on science than most modern science fiction is.
Some of the concepts, of course, are a bit less amazing than they were when the book was written, since things like submarines and electric power are now realities.
To some extent, Verne seems to have been trying to provide the next best thing: a detailed verbal description of it, based on the best knowledge then available.
Escribo esto a 5 minutos de haber terminado el libro y no me puedo detener a escribir una reseña en forma por que estoy buscando ingenieros para construir una maldita máquina del tiempo y traer de regreso a Julio Verne.
Es en serio, no te rías.
Carajo, que buen libro.
¿Quieres ingeniería del más alto nivel?
CLARO,POR QUE NO.
Solo de saber que nunca conoceré la historia detrás del enigmático Capitán Nemo o cual fue el destino del Nautilus me parte el corazón.
Fue demasiado para mi pobre espíritu, este libro me va a perseguir por muchos años.Dios, necesito un whisky.
I originally purchased this so I could re-read 20,000 leagues under the sea, which I had not read since I was a child and quite frankly I think I remember finding it really boring when I was a kid.However, being able to read it now, knowing what I know I found it incredibly captivating, especially when I put it into the context of it's time.
For many people this would be like having a full blown science fair come to their home monthly, giving them information and an education they would probably not have access to otherwise, and of course all wrapped up in an amazing story.The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five, was actually for the same reason I think it's so great.
I read the free eBook version from www.gutenberg.orgThough more famous than the other two novels in this series (In Search of the Castaways, 20,000 Leagues..., and The Mysterious Island), I didn't enjoy it as much as In Search of the Castaways.
Some facts were incorrect because they were not known at the time the book was written (such as the description of them finding open water at the South Pole.) The book is rather long with long slow sections separating the more interesting events.
Combined with the relatively difficult old vocabulary, I think modern middle-grade readers will struggle to maintain interest long enough to finish.
Three Stockholm-Syndrome-afflicted kidnapping victims come to their senses and plot to escape the clutches of a murderous underwater terrorist.
Cool sci-fi story that gets a bit boring in the middle, when Verne geeks out on nautical mapping and marine biology. Liked it way more than I expected to.
A fascinating journey through all the earth's oceans. The narrative is mediocre, but the genius of Jules Verne was telling the world everything that was known by the sea in 1870, in a story form rather than an encyclopedia.
Pierre passes out and wakes up on the back of the narwhal with Ned and his assistant.
He introduces himself as Captain Nemo and the boat they are in as the Nautilus.
After some amount of days the group goes on a hunting trip on land but get attacked by cannibals on New Guinea.
An unknown diver gets attacked by a shark but is saved by Captain Nemo.
At this point Ned wants to escape the Nautilus but Pierre wants to stay and collect research.
Then the ship gets attacked by a giant squid in Atlantic.
Finally Pierre and his friends escape the Nautilus on a dinghy.
I will start with review with an asterisk - I only read three of the total six novels contained in this collection: 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, Around the World in Eighty Days, and Journey to the Center of the Earth.
Journey to the Center of the Earth felt much, much longer than it actually was.
The story was interesting, but it felt a lot less developed than the other two works.
Good, but the worst of the three by far.Around the World in Eighty Days was light-hearted and fun and an easy and entertaining read.
I loved this Jules Verne novel.
During the search, they and harpooner Ned Land are thrown overboard during an attack, eventually discovering that the supposed monster is actually a submarine piloted by the brilliant but haunted Captain Nemo.I listened to this book on audiobook.
I've wanted to read this book for a long time and I wasn't disappointed.
I was annoyed with Ned Land sometimes and his constant desire to flee, but I did not blame him for the last few chapters, as tension rose on the Nautilus.
I thought it was funny that Aronnaux called Conseil a 'boy' all the time even though he's at least 30.
Sometimes overwhelming with all the nautical and biological jargon, but the great detail of each new encounter, because of their new alien homestead, kept me riveted.You get to explore the wonderous unknown of the seas along with the professor, and as written from his point of view, experience the voyage with his extraordinary and vivid scenes of unimaginable oceanic events that unfurl due to the mysterious, almighty creature they sought after.
Never considering it would sought them back.Ocean, mystery, danger, adventure, comaraderie, design, emotion, language are but a few things meticulously presented in this awesome classic :)
I enjoyed this book but much prefer Around the World in 80 Days.
The two are quite similar with an obsession to travel the world but 20K Leagues is similar to Moby Dick in that it's based nearly entirely at sea and details the innumerable classes of life forms in the ocean.
It poses interesting philosophical questions about man's darker side.
The bk frequently touches on man's ability to hunt an animal to extinction as well as his ability or even desire to go to war.
The unresolved ending leaves room for the sequel published four years later, but I've no desire to carry on to the next bk.
I found this book to be quite interesting from the start and flowed quite smoothly until about 25% in and it seemed to slow.
However after a couple of chapters it got extremely colorful again and quite interesting; which was about the only thing that kept me reading it in order to finish it.The story continued to go up and down a bit with my interest it would slow at places and then brighten up again.
But, as a whole I found the story to be an interesting story and could recommend it to people that like books written in this particular form.
I was really looking forward to taking a deep dive into the work of Jules Verne, but I don't think I'll touch another book of his because this was such a chore to read.
Once the main cast joins up with Nemo, the book ditches the idea of having an over-arching plot for just going on crazy trips around the ocean.
I'm cool with reading a simple adventure story and 20k has some pretty cool locations/settings.
Unfortunately 20,000 Leagues is a science-fiction book from the mid 20th century AND IT READS LIKE ONE.
Sorry Nemo, I'm headed back to the surface.
This book is a classic for a reason and I can see why it stood to the test of time.
I still can't get over that this book was written in 1870 because the submarine technology that Jules writes about is light-years beyond the era in which he was writing and I'm astounded at his foresight into modern technology.
This story was fun a ride through a great underwater adventure touching on: island natives, the city of Atlantis, giant squid's, underwater volcanoes and all other manner of ocean mysteries and perplexities!
Such a fun story that has me wanting to go on adventure of my own now!
It was a tough read because of all the classifications, but my interest in the plot (and my determination to be able to say I read it) kept me going. I personally felt the end to be rather anticlimactic, and was disappointed that I had to read another book to find out what happened to Captain Nemo. I haven't read The Mysterious Island yet though, so maybe that will change my opinion about the whole thing.
Quite the adventure, quantity over quality. Could have explored Atlantis more. Take your time! Maybe he came up with title before the story. He had to meet the 20,000 leagues quota. Seems it should have been (maybe it was) serialized. A lot of animal death (sad). Characters quite shallow. Good ending! Although the mystique is ruined with Mysterious Island.
Amazing book considering the era it was written in. A Classic!
"Scientific" descriptions of Victorian effluence abound, exciting, yet noticeably absent of any females. A man-servant will suffice here.
The story takes place in the late 1800s, when Professor Aronnax, his man servant Conseil, and Ned Land who is a Canadian harpooner, all set out in search for the elusive narwhale, but instead, accidentally stumble aboard the Nautilus, and end up being held captive by Captain Nemo.
A large portion of the story seemed repetitive and unneeded, making the choice between free will and the pursuit of knowledge obscured as the main theme in the story, and only prevalent in the final chapters of the book when the characters faced near death experiences and the cold shoulder of Captain Nemo.
"On the surface of the ocean, men wage war and destroy each other; but down here, just a few feet below the surface, there is a calm and peace, unmolested by man."-Jules Verne, author of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. In this amazing journey across the ocean depths, Verne takes us through many events and many emotions with life-like characters.
I believe that anyone who wants some food for thought or enjoys characters that you can feel should read 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
I believe that this is Verne showing us that the most valuable possession is freedom.
Verne is showing that we often take our freedom for granted but it truly is our most valuable possession.
The main characters are Professor Aronnax, his assistant Conseil and Ned Land.
A minor collision with thc contraption sent the three main characters Professor Aronnax, Conseil and Ned Land over the ship and into the icy arctic waters.
Captain Nemo which not many people read about but heard about is the captain of the Nautilus which is the submarine that is driven throughout the book.
There is no antagonist to the book because it is simply just a story told by a professor of science.
I read it through a librivox recording on youtube but you can probably find the story on audible if you are into that.
It is truly an amazing story that helps you envision the conflict and the characters in it.
It has a lot of depth and emotion in the story, while maintaining a descriptive voice about the wonders of and under the sea.
As amazing as Jules Verne's scientific knowledge, predictions, as well as skills at plot, and dialogue were, Captain Nemo is the crowning part of 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Captain Nemo and his submarine the Nautilus are so imaginative and deep that they singlehandedly make this story an ageless classic that I hope everyone will read.
Just so you know, a zoophyte is an "animal plant." In other words animals that look like plants, such as sea corals and anemones.
Articulates are jointed legged animals like annelid worms and crabs.
(Although in modern taxonomy they are in separate phyla.) Mollusks are soft bodied animals such as octopus and clams.
Being that Jules Verne wanted to specify the science in science fiction, and that there is a character that in this novel that loves, I mean, looooves taxonomy, there is a large variety of sea life that is mentioned in these pages; a veritable roll call.
Upon reading the story again, I have learned more out of it then in the past, illustrating its need to be read more than once.20,000 Leagues under the Sea follows the journey of Pierre Aronnax and his ship, the USS Abraham Lincoln, as it faces the struggles of the waters as it traverses the “20,000 leagues under the sea”.
During these journeys, Aronnax and the rest of the crew on the Lincoln face what they set out to find, a massive beast that has wreaking terror on ships all across the world.
To see what happens to the crews of the USS Abraham Lincoln and the Nautilus, you will need to read the story for yourself.
I cannot say I recommend reading this book; I found it very difficult to finish as the plot did not live up to the first few chapters of writing.
However, the writing at the end was very good and I enjoyed reading those last few chapters also.
I have you all to thank for getting me to the end of the book otherwise I would not have written a review this week.
Maybe Verne’s writing style just isn’t for me, but I had to leave an honest review, even if it is an unpopular opinion.
Read the full review: https://redrabble.com/20000-leagues-u...
What an adventure!
Villainy!
Troubled hearts!
Clash of nations and nature!
The Nautilus!
Dear Conseil!
Captain Nemo!
Monsieur!
The Sea-loving, land-needing Ned Land!
At least he admits they are dry.I will say this...being ignorant about different translations, I was lucky enough to avoid the worst translation, but not so lucky enough to have read the best.
Perhaps I can read it in its original french text, complete with the 111 pictures that originally went with it.I share the Professors sentiment — one of the most exciting adventures I've ever had the pleasure to be a part of.
One of Jules Verne's great classics, '20,00 Leagues Under The Sea' was written with no sequel for mostly mature audiences and high school level readers.
This book follows the life of a scientist, his assistant, a whaler, and a very peculiar sea captain in their journeys across the world's waters.
Through adventures and battles, the group witness wonders no one had previously seen through the eyes of their futuristic submarine.I really enjoyed this book due to its great action and adventurous theme.
However, some parts were somewhat confusing due to the book's use of scientific names and explanations for the occurrences in the characters' journey.
I give this book a 5 out of 5 rating.
I gave this book a 5 out of 5 rating because there was no part that I didn't like!
My favorite part was when captain Nemo & professor Arronax went to Atlantis!
It surprised me when one of the savages was thrown off the Nautilus by an electric force field!
Another ending could be while the Nautilus tried to ram the Abraham Lincoln it missed and professor Arronox, Ned Land and Conseil got on the Abraham Lincoln and the Abraham Lincoln sunk the Nautilus.
The end.
