https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111218.Innocent_Traitor
3.5*
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز یازدهم ماه ژانویه سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: خائن بی گناه؛ اثر: آلیسون ویر؛ مترجم: طاهره صدیقیان؛ تهران، تندیس، 1388، در 604 ص؛ شابک: 9789648944488؛ چاپ دوم 1389؛ موضوع: داستان جین گری از سال 1537 تا 1554 میلادی - سده 20 مداستان حیرت انگیز و اندوهبار زندگی، لیدی جین گری، در طی یکی از دوره های حساس، و سرنوشت ساز تاریخ انگلستان، او نوه ی خواهر هنری هشتم، و دختر عمه ی ادوارد چهارم، مری اول و الیزابت اول بود.
نقل از متن: اگر گناهان من مستحق مجازات است.
نوشته ی لیدی جین گری، در برج لندن، فوریه 1554 میلادی، پایان نقل از متن کتاب.
و بالاخره تموم شد!اگر از دسته دوستداران رمان های تاریخی هستید حتما این کتاب رو بخونید.از اونجایی که کتاب از زبان راوی های مختلف بیان میشه از اون حالت خسته کننده و یکنواختی که معمولا رمان های تاریخی حجیمِ مشابه گرفتارش میشن تا حد زیادی خارج شده، و ترجمه خیلی خوب کتاب میتونه دلیل دیگه ای برای اثبات این ادعا باشه.بیشتر راوی ها زن هستند که باعث آشنایی بیشتر با افکار و عقاید زنان درباره خود و عقاید دیگران درباره جنس مونث میشه. (هرچند این عقاید و افکار باعث عصبانیت میشن)
The worst of by far though was Weir’s poor research and total misunderstanding and the era.Weir completely misunderstands the social mores of the day when she has Frances Brandon and Henry Grey acting all doom and gloom over Jane’s birth because she’s a daughter.
King Henry VIII meanwhile, at the time the future Edward VI was born, was 46 years old, on his third marriage after almost 30 years of married life, and had only two surviving acknowledged but illegitimated daughters, and it was important to him to have a son because it was unprecedented for a woman to be accepted as ruler of England in her own right and the young Tudor dynasty could still be overthrown.Weir also includes the nonsense about the Duke of Northumberland poisoning Edward VI and then smothering a lookalike and switching the bodies so that the “king’s corpse” would have no evidence of foul play.
Jane was, of course Edward's cousin and had been named his successor to the throne, apparently after much 'handling' by the Duke.One of the few joys in Jane's short life was the two years which she spent as a lady in waiting to Queen Katherine Parr, Henry VIII's last wife.
And thus my book hath been so much my pleasure, and bringeth daily to me more pleasure and more, that in respect of it, all other pleasures, in very deed, be but trifles and troubles unto me.” Roger Ascham was so impressed with Jane's intelligence that he set up correspondence between her and many learned men, in England and Europe.
It's written from several different perspectives, which reveals Alison Weir's shortcomings.
Though I've found myself consumed by thoughts of Jane's difficult life for several hours after finishing the last page, I think this is because I know that Jane Grey was a real person, and not because I was enthralled by Alison Weir's story-wielding skills.Still - it was a decent read, and I learned quite a bit.
Most of this novel is true; Alison Weir has only added in bits here and there to add flavour, and these have all been recorded in a little blurb at the end of the book.
Lady Jane Grey (1537-1554) was born during the reign of Henry VIII to ambitious parents who trained her for an important position.
After forcing Jane into a marriage that she did not want, they hatched a plot to gain power in the royal court.Henry VIII's heir was Edward VI, but he died at a young age.
Lady Jane Grey's mother was a niece of Henry VIII.
Mary fought back with a large army, and a time of religious unrest and violence followed.This was a fascinating book about a lovely, innocent girl who got caught up in other people's plans for power with tragic results.
It is a shame because I have always found the story of how Lady Jane Grey, great niece to King Henry VIII and girl of 16, was placed on the throne after Edward's death and bypassed Mary and Elizabeth's right to the throne as one of the more intriguing stories about the infamous Tudor family and the efforts taken to keep England a protestant country.
Little did Jane know that her parents and Queen Katharine Parr's scheming would place Jane on the throne for 9 days, only to then be forcibly removed from the throne by Queen Mary's claim to the crown.
Lady Jane Grey, the grand niece of Henry VIII, and queen of England for just over a week in 1553 is the subject of Innocent Traitor, Alison Weir’s first work of historical fiction.
With over ten works of history to her credit, Weir is one of my favorite British Renaissance and Reformation historians mostly because she presents the Catholic and Protestant theological differences of the era in an impartial manner without resorting to inflammatory or stereotypical rhetoric.
If Innocent Traitor has any weakness, it would be in the beginning where it seemed/sounded like all the characters spoke with the same voice.
As the reader, we watch her grow from childhood to a young adult..although at times I felt the author made Jane too old for the age that she was at.
At times I didn't know if she was 3 years old or 16.
Also at times I found the flipping of Jane to her mother confusing.
But other than that, I really enjoyed the story told of Lady Jane Grey..but since I didn't know the out come of her future, it was a very sad surprise ending indeed.
I've never read anything about Lady Jane Grey, and thought the detail provided on the major role of religion at this time, in all political decisions was very well portrayed.
Although I liked and felt for Jane (the ending had me sobbing in the car), I felt that her reasons for acting the way she did, did not feel authentic.
Throughout the book she felt sorry for herself about the way her mother treated her, the fact that they chose her husband etc, but I think these things were the norm for that time.
I liked the book, but felt it was too long.
This is not historical fiction, though the writer (Alison Weir) has taken the liberty of imagination at certain points, and to good effect.The places where the text adds imaginative adornments are described at the end of the book, so, if you are persnickety about poetic license, you wouldn’t be too upset.Personally, interest in the life of Lady Jane Grey was kindled because of a painting that hangs in the National Gallery in London – The Execution of Jane Grey, Paul Delarouche.
I am happy, however, that she did notice the book and I did pick it.The book is written in the first person, which helps change, the perspective of looking at history.
I'm not sure what it is, exactly, but Weir's writing style makes me nuts. I can't read her. I've tried three times now and never made it more than a quarter of the way through the book. My s-i-l, normally a woman with decent taste in books, swears by her and in fact loaned me this book and "The Lady Elizabeth." And I know lots of people like her style... I wish I could pin point what about this make me cringe. But her language use just leaves me flat, bored, and irritable.
I knew the bare outline of the life of Lady Jane Grey, although, in spite of having read some version or other of Foxe's Book of Martyrs several times in my childhood, had forgotten that she is considered a martyr by the Anglican Church.
Yes, I know the account is fictional but with such a reknowned historian writing we can be fairly certain that the events, if not the motives for them, are fairly accurately recounted.The device of having multiple narrators is a useful one, making it easy to reveal the thoughts of key characters, but I'm not convinced that Wier has the novel-writing expertise to pull it off.
I really appreciated her choice of narration: the story is told from the point of views of several different characters, like Jane, Frances, Mary Tudor and even (view spoiler)[the executioner.
I think the characters had rather different voices, and, even if some of them lacked a more complex characterization, I enjoyed all of their narrations.I would definitely recommend the book if you are interested in Jane Grey and the historical period; but if you like Frances Brandon you should be careful, because here you won't find a sympathetic portrayal of her.
Hrm. I think I would've enjoyed this more if it had been a straightforward history textbook instead of an attempt at prose.
[EDIT: I've now read some of her straight-up history texts, and prefer them immensely to this.
I was right -- Ms. Weir just can't handle prose and character voice.]One point: I'm tired of Tudor-era books writing graphic descriptions of rape.
Just because it's historical doesn't make rape entertaining or somehow okay to portray in ways that modern fiction would shy away from.
[EDIT: The rape thing is extremely irritating when you realize that the book shies away from actually depicting Jane's beheading.
*****This is a review for the audio book. This was well-written. I loved how detailed the history was. The author did a lot research and took few liberties with telling the story. I really loved getting to know Lady Jane Grey. This is one of most tragic story I've heard in awhile. However, I would recommend it. I would say this should be read before most of these other books set in the Tudor era, though. This was my first book I've read by Alison Weir, but it definitely won't be my last.
DNF @ 11%.I especially couldn't get into the different points-of-view as they all sound the same..it was difficult to distinguish the 4 year old Jane Grey from her nanny or mother. I also don't know if I'm interested in 400+ pages on Jane Grey.
I like that in a relatively short book one gets a quick summary of Tudor history; Henry VIII, his wives and progeny, are quickly summarized so you can understand how Lady Jane Grey came to be queen for nine days.
I am not religious, and I do not have faith, and I prefer reading about people from the lower classes, so the chances I could like this book are pretty slim, but I wanted to have a basic understanding of the Tudors.
Only two stars!*********************(ETA: Nurse Ellen is the one and only character I empathized with.)Through page 50: Will I understand who is who?
Still, in that era, childhood as we know it did not exist.Events in the book are portrayed first person, through the eyes of a number of people—from Lady Jane Grey to her parents to Mrs. Ellen to Queen Jane Seymour to Queen Mary to the Duke of Northumberland and so on.
Through these various characters, we learn of the great events of the day as they happen—Henry VIII’s marriages to Anne of Cleves, Katherine Howard, Katherine Parr, Edward VI’s brief reign, internal and external crises facing the country.But, of course, the arc of this work is the brief reign of Lade Jane Grey as Queen Jane.
They just don't do it for me, and I wish I had learned my lesson through The Lady Elizabeth and my attempt at her fiction book about Eleanor of Aquitaine, but how much I enjoyed The Marriage Game: A Novel of Queen Elizabeth I made me hope things were different.Nope.
There's not a lot of evidence for it, and most likely it's something that's been played up to undermine Jane's contribution to the plot for her being Queen.
God, I could do without a book trying to make a character more innocent through using rape.
Wow...okay just added a new author to my lists of favorites, Alison Weir now joins Phillippa Gregory and Margaret George as some of my favorite historical fiction authors..
The previous one that I written was so god awful, that I didn't like it.
This is the story about the nine day queen known as Lady Jane Grey.
The only shining parts of her life were her books, Mrs. Ellen and Katherine Parr, King Henry's last wife.I felt just so awful for poor Jane.
Her mother was so god awful to her.
I will definitely be picking up more books about her.
I hope that the people that convinced Queen Mary to execute her, had nothing but a guilty conscious until the day they died.
I hope the same for Queen Mary as well.
There does not seem to be that much difference in tone between Katherine Parr and Frances Brandon in tone.
The only voice that really stands out in this regard is the voice of Mrs Ellen, Lady Jane's nurse.
Mrs Ellen's voice is distinct and individual.
Multiple narrators are fine, but they should be distinct, like, for instance, in The Girl With No Shadow What makes the book good is Weir's portrayal of Jane.
Despite problems with narrative voices, Weir does a very good job of presenting Lady Jane warts and all; in fact, she presents all characters warts and all.
I loved this book. his time period has always been a major love of mine, and this one was great. It was told from several points of view which I find interesting. The story of Jane Grey is a sad one and this book portrayed it well.
very good read
They have all played a part in shaping my destiny." she goes over, in her head~although she is exhausted and all she wants to do is sleep~i can definitely relate to that~for the thousandth time how she came to be there), beginning with Jane's birth up to her execution.It is so interesting, how, even when you know the story well, it can still move you to tears when it is well told, as it is here in Weir's expert hands.
But i also relate it to the blood soaked politics that goes along with playing that game.
The impression is given that Mary was hoping to use that as an excuse to reprive Jane.
She also had several Catholic religious figures try to debate Jane in hopes of her conversion which would give Mary another excuse for a reprieve.
I wish she had mentioned in her afterword whether Mary had actually been threatened with the cancellation of marriage to Phillip if she didn't put Jane to death.
She comes across as rather weak and depressed.
I suspect that Elizabeth's rather feminist attitude is slightly incorrect.
I'll have to go ahead and find more of Weir's books to read.
Every time I read a novel detailing the life of the Tudor court and its aftermath, I can't help coming away with the sense that many fathers and mothers literally prostituted their children for the gain of power.
Jane was known to be a very intelligent child through some of the writing left of hers attests to that fact, and also was purported to have been harshly raised by an unfeeling mother and a father who placed himself above all others.
Jane was a innocent in the game played by her parents and the Lord Northumberland that placed her upon the throne after the death of Edward VI.
It rotates among first-person narration from many perspectives, but the problem is that all narrators speak in the dramatic present, as if the speaker were speaking at the moment of the experience.
Of course that is impossible, so the best we can hope for is that the narration is supposed to be a retrospective, but the narrators (all of them, but especially Jane Grey) are telling the stories that they have reconstructed from highly questionable memories; thus, we are really getting the story of what Jane Grey would have thought and felt had she had those experiences as a much older person.
