https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158367.The_Fun_of_It
I finished the book so disappointed that she wasn't my friend in real life. Delightful writing style, and so open and modest. What a charmer she was!
Por el placer de hacerlo no es un libro feminista al uso. Al menos no fue escrito con esa intención. Pero lo es, y mucho además. No se alinea con ninguna ideología ni filosofía. La autora tampoco busca que el lector vea las cosas del mismo modo que ella. Solo defiende que una mujer pueda tener la misma actividad que un hombre solamente por el placer de hacerlo. Si es que el título le viene que ni pintado. Reseña completa: http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/amel...
Amelia began her life in Kansas and she became a nurse, a car mechanic, a social worker, a photgrapher, and even an airline vice president before she became America's aviation sweetheart.
She also tells a funny tale here and there like the time she was sledding and barely missed a head on collision with a horse, going between its legs as luck would have it.
Another funny tale (that also involves a horse) is when she had one as a passenger!
When today someone says the words "women in aviation" we immediately think about Amelia.
This is a must read for any and all aviation buffs.
Not the best written book ever BUT it was wonderful to read her words and her perspectives. What a wonderful life she created for herself and what a great empowering legacy to leave.
This book is just as charming as when I first read it in college over 20 years ago. It's the next best thing to sitting down with Amelia and having lunch.
In a word, they are simply thoroughly normal girls and women who happen to have taken up flying rather than golf, swimming or steeplechasing."I really enjoyed this!
Amelia Earhart is witty and engaging in her writing, and I found this very fun to read.
Her passion for aviation is very clear, and in particular, I enjoyed her descriptions of flying and her interactions with others in the field.
It's an informal autobiography, and it was interesting to read about her life beginning in her childhood.
In the course of reading, I found many similarities to Amelia Earhart, which was amusing:1.
Fun read from Amelia Earhart herself. She writes about how she began flying, what it's like to fly, what she predicts for the future of commercial flight, what it's like to be a female pilot, some of her famous flights, and she highlights some famous female pioneers in flight. The writing style is straight forward. It seemed like I could almost hear her voice reading the book to me, in the language of the early '30s. There's no mention of her around-the-world flight in which she gets lost, of
She writes about how she began flying, what it's like to fly, what she predicts for the future of commercial flight, what it's like to be a female pilot, some of her famous flights, and she highlights some famous female pioneers in flight.
There's no mention of her around-the-world flight in which she gets lost, of course.
It makes me a little sad that the only female aviation pioneers I had heard of were ones linked with tragedy (herself and Anne Marrow Lindbergh).
She mentioned that, herself, in fact.
The whole book was upbeat and a fun read.

Amelia Earhart was my childhood hero(ine) and having always loved her, this book was a delight to read. The first half was full of her wit and charm in recounting her childhood, college years, and introduction to flight. The second half was filled with facts and stories about the history of aviation. It's remarkable to see the changes she documents and compare the experiences of her day with modern flight. I think the title is so perfect, as flying for Earhart was a matter of fun.
Published when she was about 36, four years before her disappearance.Well-written and interesting but she shies away from actually recounting her life and thoughts in favor of a brief history of air travel, women in aviation, etc. The smallest chapter is given to her solo Atlantic crossing (Lindbergh wrote an entire book).
Not the best written book in the world, but it is from Amelia Earhart's perspective about flying in general and her views of where aviation has been, is, and will be in the future. Not particularly accurate predictions, but somewhat amusing to see what the famous woman thought.
Some of the material, in the beginning, is similar, almost verbatim, to her included history in 20 Hours, 40 Minutes: Our Flight in the Friendship.
This book felt more relaxing to read, though, as her account of the Friendship Flight felt rushed.
Here, Amelia writes about the other women pilots flying during this time, and it's fascinating to read.
Fighter pilot training, for women in the Air Force, began in 1993.There is a chapter, Air Trails of the Future, which is fun to read, in the future, to see how accurate Earhart was with her predictions.
Onward to The Last Flight which will be hard, emotionally, to read, knowing the history.
What an autobiography should be like. Honest, warm and friendly story-telling. Not a hint of a shadow writer with a celebrity name plastered on the cover. The stories A.E describes are funny, exciting, sometimes make you gasp and grip the book tighter. A.E is not a writer in a classical sense but I genuinely enjoyed her autobiography.
3,5/5
Amazing! This is a book that everyone should read, especially women. 10 our of 10, would recommend.
she's a very witty writer, lots of fun when she's not describing flight and airplanes...
Amelia Earhart earned fame as the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean in 1932, and became a legend when she, her plane, and her co-pilot disappeared without a trace in 1937. In this book, though, we meet a young woman of boundless energy, who embraced life with everything she had. A generous soul, who was quick to celebrate the accomplishments of other women pioneers. To top it off, she was a darned good writer, too. The only regret I had after devouring her book is that she wasn’t with us decades longer.
This is a great first hand account of life in America in the 1920's-30's. An inside look at innovations in technology, but also a fun look at American lifestyles. Always fascinated with her since I was a kid, I really enjoyed reading something written by Amelia Earhart.
Always was interested in Amelia Earhart and enjoyed reading about her life in her own words. A life that was much too short.
The title says it all - this book is fun! Earhart has an almost conspiratorial tone here, and I loved how that tone simultaneously humanize a legend and makes clear that yes, she was a Very Big Deal.
My book review.https://pitchedhigh.wordpress.com/201...
