https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6695.Skin_and_Other_Stories
My goal is to read as many Roald Dahl books as I can this year. Also, I am doing this as a buddy read with a Goodreads' friend that is also doing the same challenge. This book is filled with eleven short stories that Roald Dahl wrote. They were all good, but none of them were fantastic. I had no drive to read this book. I was able to set it down and forget about it. Compared to Roald Dahl's other work, I don't believe this to be anywhere near his best stuff.
What a fun collection! These stories were all pretty spooky, creepy, and/or twisted, and I greatly enjoyed most of them! The last two weren't great in my opinion, but the rest were awesome. I highly recommend giving this collection a try if you're wary of short stories or if you just want something a bit creepy!


It took me a number of years from the first time someone recommended Roald Dahl's adult, dark short fiction to me and the time I finally got one of his books and read it, but my word.
This was one of the most engaging, unsettling, delightful, and unexpected works of short fiction I have ever encountered.
I had no suspicion that Dahl had these kinds of works in his oeuvre, and now that I know, you can rest assured I will keep reading them.
I was delighted at the mystery, the otherworldliness, the glee of creation, and the richness of character and situation I found in the covers of this book.
I was excited to receive it, though, as it was billed as Roald Dahl writes short stories for adults, which, I guess, is what it was.I grew up on Dahl.
Perhaps the biggest problem I had, though, is the structure of the stories.It's as though Dahl wasn't quite certain of what to do with a short story.
The conflict is typically a twist of some sort, and ending the story on this twist just makes the story feel like a cliffhanger.
The effect is ultimately disappointing.The stories, although billed as "macabre," are simply more imaginative (and occasionally mildly sinister) than anything, and they do show a degree of promise, but in the end, they are lacking.
I'm not a fan of the quiet literary novel. I like stories in which things happen. New, different, interesting things. Dahl is in my top five of short story writers along with Daphne DuMaurier who was also a Hitchcock fave, as well as three other people I'll have to think very carefully about. Guy de Maupassant and Edgar Allen Poe and Rod Serling come to mind immediately.
I HATE collections of short stories.
Hate.
About once a year I give them "one more try." My one try this year should have just ended with Tyranny of Petticoats.
I discovered this little ditty by RD and just HAD to try it.
It took me almost a month to read this 200 page book.
As would be expected, I really like some stories and others were not even at my table, let alone my cup of tea.
I might try to review this book to see if I talk myself into more appreciation for the Collected Work.
I picked this up at the library as I was curious what sort of stories Roald Dahl wrote for adults, and I'm so glad I did. Every story was completely engaging from the first sentence, and had such a clever twist to it.A literary delight. What an incredible storyteller.
It's Dahl. What more should I say?!
Algunos relatos magníficos, otros parecen que están inacabados. Lo único seguro es que Roald Dahl era un maestro escribiendo e imaginando situaciones.
Who knew he wrote for adults? Apparently, during the first part of his writing career, this is what he did, and his developing craft is beautifully apparent in the pages of this book. I was intrigued from the moment I read on the back cover that Dahl was "master of the macabre." Strange, sometimes gruesome stories that take place mostly in post-war England - I have rediscovered one of my favorite authors from childhood.
Aluksi ajattelin, että novellit ovat "tyhmiä", koska ne loppuivat niin pahasti kesken koko ajan. Mutta luettuani toisiksi viimeisen novellin Tie taivaaseen, oivalsin, että ehkä on parempi jättää novelleihin tulkinnanvaraa. 4/5 !
In the 3rd grade, my favorite book was The Witches. I think I liked it so much because it was kinda fucked up (for my 3rd grade self); bald, toe-less women trapping kids in oil paintings or turning them into porpoises. I didn't know that Dahl had written stories that would entertain my adult brain as well. These short stories were pretty simple, usually the very last sentences would reveal a dark twist to the protagonist's fate. I think my favorites were " Lamb To The Slaughter" and "Dip In The Pool".
Beloved children author Roald Dahl wrote a series of delightful, dark humour for teen readers and eleven of them are compiled in Skin and Other Stories.
A single story, if not the entire book, is short enough to finish in one sitting.[return][return]Take for instance, the story "Skin", where an old man finds that the tattoo on his back is worth well over a million pounds because the one who did it for him is now a famous painter.
only a couple of new stories for me, one of which is quite exceptional
This is exactly the kind of book I remember doing book reports on in high school.
I never read these stories, but I remember the "genre" of "classic" short stories.
The dust jacket describes his claim to fame as "fiendishly clever short story collections for adults" and that does a fine job of summing him up.My favorites were "Skin," "An African Story," and "The Champion of the World." The last one even borders on humorous, a charming story of hubris where the ending gotchya isn't creepy at all, but puts a wide smile on your face nonetheless.
Dahl's best known for he's children stories actually wrote plenty of short stories for adults, some were adapted for tv show 'Tales of the Unexpected' but these were shown nearly 40 years ago!This collection includes 11 tales and all have their merits. My personal favorites includes Skin, Lamb to the Slaughter and Dip in the Pool.More interestingly this collection includes The Champion of the World, written in the 50's this would later become the basis for Danny the Champion of the WorldAnyone that grew up reading Dahl as a kid should certainly give this a read.
A great collection of 'adult' stories by Roald Dahl.
While they all generally contain one impish twist or another, they vary between the genuinely dark (Skin, Lamb To The Slaughter, Dip In The Pool), to plots that wouldn't feel out of place as the B-story in an episode of 'Modern Family' (The Surgeon, The Champion Of The World).
At best, they're dark and thought-provoking.
A solid collection.My personal favorites were the title story, 'Galloping Foxley' (whose subtle twist ending was understated and perfect), and 'A Dip In The Pool.'
My musings on Skin and Other Stories by Roald Dahl.
I never really know what to say about short stories, or in this case a short story compilation, they are such light, quick reading that they tend to leave little to no impression on me.
I must say though, if you are going to read a compilation of short stories you really should give Dahl's a go.
Dark, eerie and lovely in traditional Dahl style.
That's about all the musings I've got today.
Read Roald Dahl....
"Skin" is amazing.
Roald Dahl is a master of fiction, and these stories are some of his best works.
The stories are varied in subject and theme.
For example, the titular story "Skin" is about a man with a priceless tattoo on his back, while the short piece "The Wish" is a largely ambiguous story about a child's imagination gone wrong.
Most of these stories have the signature Dahl twist ending, and almost all are handled very well in respect to exposition and plot.
Some endings are so clouded it obscures the story itself, but this is largely not the case.
This is another great collection of tales some of which I have read previously but thoroughly enjoyed reading again (including my favourites Skin and Lamb to the Slaughter) and others that were completely new and brilliantly entertaining too. I found 'The Sound Machine' rather interesting as well as being reminiscent of the BFG and 'An African Story' was superb, even despite managing to figure out the ending (it was what I hoped for so maybe that's why I liked it so much).
2.5All together a disappointment... It lacks the elements of startle, surprise and satisfy that the description promises. As this was a collection of short stories, I will give them individual rates: Skin: 3.75 Lamb to the Slaughter: 4The Sound Machine: 3.75An African Story: 2.5Galloping Foxley: 2.5The Wish: 2The Surgeon: 2.5Dip in the Pool: 3The Champion of the World: 2.75Beware of the Dog: 3My Lady Love, My Dove: 2.75
Great short story collection by the great Roald Dahl. The most memorable stories for me, and the most creepy, were "The Lamb to the Slaughter" and the "African Story".
AMAZING. Just read it
whimsical stories that are pretty much what you’d expect from roald dahl
I know Roald Dahl as a children's writer more than as a writer for adults. This is a very interesting collection of short stories. It was a great read for a frosty winter day.
Some of the stories were boring and some were creepy but others were like, what the hell is going on? I wonder if any of them could happen in real life.
"Skin", the first short story from which this book derives its name, is fairly strange and somewhat morbid; a man with a full back tattoo by a famous artist is propositioned a ridiculous offer to sell his skin.
It's not so much that these short stories are uninteresting in themselves, but moreso the requisite letdown resulting from a string of uniquely morbid and unorthodox stories I liked followed by a string of comparatively placid and more common writings.
Mine did, and for this letdown I leave the book with a 3-star feeling, rather than a 4-star one had I read the stories in reverse.
Roald Dahlin mustanpuhuva novellikokoelma Nahka ja muita novelleja hivuttautuu hieman scifin puolelle. Kauhuna en osaa näitä pitää. Enimmäkseen kuitenkin pysytellään ihmisluonnon ja eri tavoin nyrjähtäneitten touhujen kuvauksessa. Eräs arvostelija täällä sivustolla toteaa naulan kantaan: "It's Dahl. What more should I say?!"Joistakin jutuista tuli kummallinen déjà lu -olo: aivan kuin olisin lukenut saman aikaisemminkin. Tarkempi lukija olisi huomannut alkusivuilta, että osa novelleista on julkaistu suomeksi niin ikään mainiossa kokoelmassa Rakkaani, kyyhkyläiseni : jännityskertomuksia. No, näitä novelleja kelpaa nauttia useampaankin kertaan!
