https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54996.Transparent_Things
A perfect novella.
You can have your 1,000+ page encyclopedic mammoths of verbose density of such mind-warpage that you must compile dictionaries of new concepts and schematized flow charts of character interrelations (and I can have them too); but sometimes 105 pages of flawless, tautly interwoven pulses of prose is all that's required to send a lover of words into ecstasy.
By the way, did you know that the sum total of all material reality, with all its component parts, adds up to a big fat ZERO, and that we make fictions so that there is some positive net gain, some charge above the flatline, so that this grim furnace of dumb bodies we call the world isn't totally and inexorably pointless, voiceless, and doomed?
Revolving around man's numerous excursions to Switzerland, this incredibly short novel serves as the perfect paint-sampler into Nabokov's later works. As with most of Nabokov's work, the plot is weird and highly original and of course his prose complements it perfectly. Sometimes I read Nabokov and I come across a phrase or a piece of writing describing something and it makes me stop, because it is so simple but so genius that I cannot comprehend how the human mind ever thought of such a series of words. That happened a lot in this work. Nabokov was a genius.
Transparent Things received some marmite reviews by the critics back in the seventies (most of which Nabokov laughed off) and while I won't go as far as marmite (which I dislike) this still felt like a well buttered up piece of toast, minus the deluxe strawberry conserve of his better novels.Despite some Lolita era passages of writing, which may I add don't crop up often enough, the Bumbling, somnambulant protagonist, Hugh Person (someone I never particularly cared for) impishly, like a fallen maestro, digresses throughout of an ill-fated trip to Switzerland.
Και τότε πια από μια τρίτη έδρα να παρατηρείς και να καταλαβαίνεις, να κατανοείς και να διορθώνεις, να προχωράς ενώ πια ξέρεις και το κουτί αυτό με τα σπίρτα, να είναι ένα κουτί με σπίρτα, ως τη στιγμή που θα αποφασίσεις να γίνει κάτι άλλο, δεμένο με ό,τι υπήρξε και αξεδιάλυτο απ’ τις προσδοκίες σου ( εν γνώσει ), αλλά που παραμένει πάντα διάφανο για να το κάνει το άγγιγμα σου ό,τι πρόκειται να γίνει.
Μπορεί σε αυτό να συμμετέχει το ίδιο μονοπάτι που βρίσκεται κάτω απ’ το παράθυρο, ο ίδιος βόμβος από ένα ψυγείο, ένας παρόμοιος ήλιος, μια μορφή διαθλασμένη και μεταφερμένη στο τώρα και το τότε.
I read this exhilarating novella in a two-hour burst, knees bumped with bliss, hands clasped in delight, eyes lacquered to the page.This is Nabokov's penultimate novel, before the "doddery" (so says Martin Amis) Look at the Harelquins, and not including his unfinished posthumous one, The Original of Laura. This is part of his trilogy of "nympholepsy novels" (so says Amis again), and shows the cartwheeling prose gymnastics of the last great Russian writer at their finest.Essential.
It’s kind admirable to see his mind at work this way, like he had a special handle on reality, but he is so mercenary and disdainful of everyone he encounters, you feel he deserves it when his mental talents lead him to anguished trouble.
And you will likely be glad when on a later trip to Switzerland spur some productivity out of an egotistical author he falls in lust for a barely adult young woman on the train and works up some real ambition to conquer her heart.What he has to win her makes for quite an absurd quest, and by the time he works past all the shameful things she puts him through to get her, he is hopelessly in love.
Transparências de Vladimir Nobokov é um romance, publicado em 1972.Começa assim:Eis a pessoa que eu quero.
7)O nome do personagem Hugh (You/tu), Peterson/¬Person (Pessoa) é uma metáfora das muitas que Nobokov imprime nos seus textos.
Numa das noites de sonambulismo a esposa morre, ele é preso e posteriormente enviado para um hospício.Passados oito anos da morte da mulher faz a sua última viagem à Suíça, e é aqui que se desenrola toda a novela.
Criar uma transparência entre o passado e o presente junto da sua amada mulher, no sítio onde outrora se sentira tão feliz.
Transparent things, through which the past shines!" -- Vladimir Nabokov, Transparent ThingsLike almost every one of Nabokov's novels/novellas I've read so far, 'Transparent Things' has moments of absolute and immortal genius.
I feel too there exists layers and ghosts in those pages that can only be exposed if I were to read TT three of four more times (I love Nabokov, but I'm not ready to prostrate myself that far).
It is a novel that deals with the phantoms and as Nabokov himself called it, the "ooze of the past" and the "tangle of random destinies".I loved TT, but still didn't always like it.
There is little here of enduring substance, apart from the spectacle of Nabokov himself.
This slender volume contains all the Nabokovian elements: the unconventional style of narration (check!); the wonderfully pretentious prose, with smatterings of French and Russian (and why the hell not throw in a little German and Italian this time - check!); the nymphet and the older man (check!); the Russian émigré (check!); there's even tangential reference made to butterflies and chess (check!
It's a brief but densely layered work, whose nature is somewhat occluded until the final chapters.Perhaps the phrasing of my opening sentence is a little unfair: there is certainly substance here, but it is subtle and elusive and not all that enduring.
(Lightning Review)Apparently I don't know how to use the second reading function. Whatever. One of my absolute favorite Nabokov's and probably his most flat-out mean-spirited. Which, naturally, translates to a whole ski lift full of fun. I'm pressed to think of another writer who excelled so greatly at getting off on doing horrible things to his characters, and here he pretty much outdoes himself on that order. Likely Top 3 Nabo for me. Oops, I'm rapping. Revelation: pretty women are generally vacuous (per VVN, not me, Sisters).Lightning Review rating: Swiss cheese
There is no story that one can promptly recite, though I find it worthy to elaborate the novel's key idea (given to us in the very first chapter) as I understand it: When our gaze fixates on a thing, any thing, we plunge into questions regarding its history, and as we plunge more and more the thing tends to become transparent.
My way of understanding this transparency is to synonymize it with an evanescent irrelevance of form, which may mean to say that the history of the object grows in relevance while the form, and even presence, of the object becomes secondary.
Transparent Things is an EP remix of elements from Pale Fire, Lolita. Love, murder. Tracks include:1. Moby's Love Remix2. Orbital's Murder Remix3. NIN's Memory Mix4. Angelo Badalementi's Dream Mix (vocals by Julee Cruise)European version includes:5. Hotel of Flames Dance-Dub Mix (uncredited, but an ASCAP search revealed that it was performed/recorded by Aphex Twin and Robert Fripp.)
but, as Nabokov asks, why exactly should it be illegal to cross a poodle with a dachshund?
And his comments on the sad decline of Swiss hot chocolate are all too true.
Note to unwary tourists: if you see chocolat chaud à l'ancienne on a café menu, don't assume this refers to real, old-fashioned, hand-made hot chocolate.
It means, rather, that they will charge you CHF 5.50 for a cup of tepid milk and a sachet of disgusting brown powder manufactured under the "à l'ancienne" brand.
If you listen carefully, you'll be able to hear Nabokov spinning in his grave.
. Eight years later -- following a murder, a period of madness and a brief imprisonment -- Hugh makes a lone sentimental journey to wheedle out his past" (Martin Amis).I would like to say something positive by looking at the bright side, first, from his sense of humour, the hero's name itself has linguistically posed a pronunciation problem because the readers would find that it's amusingly pronounced and the reason as we can see from this extract: 'You Person?' asked her voice.He already knew, ever since she had recited the contents of the card he had given her on the train, that she pronounced his first name as 'You.''Yes, it's me, I mean "you," I mean you mispronounce it most enchantingly.''I do not mispronounce anything.
Following his longest novelistic work, Ada, Nabokov gave us his smallest, Transparent Things: a miniature Fabergé egg of a novel, highly ornamental, highly sophisticated in design, but with an elegant simplicity.
This novelette is a sort of pell-mell mélange of Nabokov's themes: time, love, madness, murder, style, and memory.
Perhaps if the future existed, concretely and individually, as something that could be discerned by a better brain, the past would not be so seductive: its demands would be balanced by those of the future.
This is how we are introduced to the novel's main theme which is memory, or rather the seductive past.

Likewise, to me, Transparent Things is pretty much all prose-style, and a dated, fussy, convoluted prose style at that.
Milan Kundera once said, while discussing Kafka, that a poet who serves any truth other than “the truth to be discovered” is a “false poet”, and I can’t help but suspect Nabokov of that falseness.
To me, it’s like a Yngwie Malmsteen song: the guy can play, granted, but if the song he saturates with curlicues is dull, bland and instantly dated, what’s the point?
All of which is to say, phew, ain’t subjectivity a funny thing?
"It is generally assumed that if man were to establish the fact of survival after death, he would also solve, or be on the way to solving, the riddle of Being."
At least four stars because:It's Nabokov in full late-period stylistic glory.
Transparent Things draws from the same well of spine-tingling goodness.Certainly not five stars because:I had no investment in the characters or plot.
This has been the norm for me with Nabokov's short fiction.
Much like The Eye, this feels like a short story with a clever premise expanded to 100 pages, rather than a full novel condensed to 100 pages, and accordingly the characters and story have a made-from-powdered-fiction-mix feel.
Recycling over and over again main characters and their circumstances (madness, murder) seems to confirm the inferiority of content as opposed to style, narration theory and the intricate relationship between reader and writer.All of Nabokov's books are special, if only for their rich vocabulary and often puzzling mind games played by the author, but these cat-and-mouse twists become eventually tiring.
And why not create a likeable character for a change?I admit, though, that the ideas of time and memory seem to effortlessly flow and the transparency of things, objects, memories, humans becomes more obvious with the ruthless passing of time.The professor Nabokov outdid the writer Nabokov.
Reminiscent of his better-known "Pnin," Vladimir Nabokov's 1972 short novel "Transparent Things" is, like much of Nabokov's writing, full of humorous wordplay, back-and-forth movements in time, unreliable narration, and mockery of its characters.
(Much of this book's humor comes from its copious use of parantheticals -- and from poking fun at the very use of such parantheticals.)It's hard to say why "Transparent Things" doesn't get the same respect "Pnin" does, but it should; I may have enjoyed it even more than I did "Pnin," frankly.
I'd highly recommend "Transparent Things" to both those new to Nabokov and the already converted.
Wow. Lolita gets all of the press thanks to its scandalous subject matter (and it's an amazing novel), but Transparent Things deserves to come out of its shadow.
So tightly constructed -- this is Nabokov's third-to-last novel (counting the one that came out posthumously), and he is at the height of every single one of his powers -- linguistically, structurally, philosophically...
As soon as I finished I turned back to page 1 and re-read it.Almost finished with the mission to read all of his novels in chronological order.
Then I suspect I'll do the same thing as I did with Transparent Things -- turn back to the beginning and start over.
An odd, little sliver of a book (just barely more than 100 pages)... Kind of a search for love and memory, whose traces might be transparent, but whose meaning is anything but. Captures the kind of square-peg-trying-to-fit-a-round-hole feeling much of life has. Wasn't until the last 20 pages or so that the book really caught me and sent my thoughts in motion.
Zbog belgijskog slikara i jednog pasusa posvećenom ulozi znakâ navoda, dobija četiri zvezdice. (Vagao sam između trojke i četvorke.)
It is at times laugh-out-loud funny, in a particular sort of zany way.
the slim book is at its best when he pauses for a moment to describe in sweeping-though never overly precious-passages the context of scenes; in other words, when the characters' story is abandoned for a minute and i lose myself in nabokov's incredibly skill as a writer.
this is not one of my favorites by him, but i'm enjoying this as a reread since i can afford to abandon what irritated me the first go-round for the sheer enjoyment of nabokov's words.
Transparent ThingsFraudio> rosado> Read by Christopher Lane. pub 1972summer 2013tbr busting 2013short story (105 pages)> murder and madnesstongue in cheeksleazy> paedophillic undertones againfrom wiki: This short novel tells the story of Hugh Person, a young American editor, and the memory of his four trips to a small village in Switzerland over the course of nearly two decades.Hugh Person is a Who? person, another dislikeable character that flooded in from the Nabokovian nib. Fantastic use of language showpieced in put-downs and acrid observations.5* Pale Fire4* Sebastian Knight3* Lolita3* The Eye2* Transparent Things
can Nabokov really work his genius in so slender a volume as this? pretty much.
The narrative provides an opportunity for reflection on this fellow’s turbulent life.
Moreover, it affords the author the occasion to demonstrate a little literary flourish and walk the reader through themes of time, love, authorship, and the metaphysics of memory.As such, it can be a little hard going.
One of the joys of reading – contrasted with some of the more passive forms of entertainment – is the reward for effort.
One of Nabokov's greatest strengths is the multilayered nature of his novels, which expands the opportunity for reader to take more away from a novel than most.
Men have learned to live with a black burden, a huge aching hump; the supposition that "reality" may be only a "dream".
How much more dreadful it would be if the very awareness of your being aware of reality's dreamlike nature were also a dream , built-in hallucination!
If you are a fan of Nabokov's, the main character is a version of the often-seen neurotic, intelligent, and soul-sick young man, who is bound by a passion into a path that seems always thwarted.
The leading man is awkward, self-critical, and highly intelligent.
Nabokov knows how to render a "chance turn of events" - wherein the anti-hero falls desperately in love with a shallow, beautiful, bitchy ski bunny in Switzerland, while working as a proofreader for a publishing company and meeting popular but pompous authors.
It's an easy read and fans of Nabokov might like this rendering of some of his "favorite" themes of regret, unrequited love, man's relationship to memory and time, and wrenching nostalgia.
