https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18079776-the-invention-of-wings
A must read! I found this to be one of the most powerful novels I've read... I'm from South Carolina and I love Charleston but not always her history. Im very sad that the courageousness of the Grimke Sisters is not more well known here. Wonderful writting... the atrocities of slavery and its affects are so well depicted in the voices of Sarah and Hettie. Thank you Sue for sharing this amazing story. 5 HUGE stars!
In blending fact and fiction, she tells the story of Sarah and Angelina Grimke, two sisters from Charleston, S.C. who devote their lives to the abolition of slavery and to the women's rights movement in the 1800's.
While, Kidd in her notes gives details of her research and clarifies what was fact and what was fiction in the novel, I loved that one of my favorite parts of the book was true - Sarah teaches Handful to read.
I don't know how the book I read can be the same that has received 4 and 5 stars. I found the book to be mediocre at best. With very little character development the book is shallow. I felt nothing for anyone with the possible exception of Handful. Even Charleston, a character herself, especially in the slave trade, was poorly developed. This is a missed opportunity as the history coupled with the fictionalized account could have been very good. I was sadly disappointed.
Audiobooks have been my preferred reading format for about 5 years now, and I probably listen to at least 30 audiobooks a year, but it is rare that I come across an audio so beautifully narrated and a story so deeply stirring that it leaves me feeling like anything I can say about it will be inadequate.
I didn't know before reading that The Invention of Wings was based on the true story of Sarah Grimke and her sister.
Handful's story was a glimpse of what life was like for a slave, her hopes, dreams, and many hardships.
The novel really begins when an 11 year old daughter of a plantation owner is given a slave for her 11th birthday.
She feels trapped being a woman -wanting to do something "big" and important in her life, but being constantly told she cannot because she is female.Hetty "Handful” Grimke, is the slave whom Sarah is given for her 11th birthday.
The books alternates between Sarah and Hetty's two voices.
With her sister's help, they become some of the first women to speak out against slavery and women's rights.I even loved the footnotes where the Author tells us how the real life story of the Grimke sisters inspired her book.
Charlotte had taught Handful to sew and quilt and these skills mark Handful as a important member of the Grimke household and ensure that she never gets sold off as often happens.A slave's songBread done broken			let my Jesus go			Feet be tired 			let my Jesus go			Back be aching			let my Jesus go			Teeth done fell out			let my Jesus go			Rump be dragging			let my Jesus goThis is not the first novel which alludes to people once having had wings, now obsolete but their framework still existing.
So, my own national history is tarnished by this scourge.The Invention of Wings is a powerful read; one cannot help but feel sympathy for both Sarah and Handful.
Where the two novels differ is that The Invention of Wings takes place during a time in American history when the south wanted nothing more than to preserve its lot in the slave trade.
Sue Monk Kidd uses Handful's story as a slave to juxtapose with Sarah's own feelings of being trapped.
Although each character experiences loss, Handful's story is more appalling.Sue Monk Kidd gives readers a fictionalized account of a woman who is considered a pretty big deal in the Feminist Movement as well as abolitionism.
Sarah is an adamant abolitionist, and teaches Handful to read and allows her some small freedoms, but in an oddly self-righteous move, gives Handful back to Sarah's parents, even though her mother is especially harsh to slaves, because she "doesn't want to own a slave." (Apparently freeing a slave in this time and place was not an easy thing to do.)I was almost halfway through The Invention of Wings before I looked at the back of the book (I may or may not have been peeking at the ending) and saw the afterword by the author, explaining the factual basis for this novel, and realized that Sarah Grimke was a real person.
In fact, I actually thought I had more to read, but quickly found out that the author's note was stuck in there!!Sue Monk Kidd outdid herself with the amount of research she had to do to keep this novel accurate, and taking liberties with telling the story of Hetty Handful and Sarah Grimke.
The journey that Hetty and Sarah end up taking circles around and eventually they each grow to masterful heights with their courage and strength.I found myself rooting for these women and hoping that the story would end happily, and at the end, I wanted to research the true stories of the Grimke sisters, along with some of the other characters that are introduced throughout this book.
Where to start in trying to explain all the amazing things this novel contained.
It is also the story of Handful, a slave and her mother on the Gremke plantation.Some was hard to read, the whippings and other mistreatment of the slaves, their longing to be free and the many times they had to swallow what they really thought when in their owner's presence.
So many characters that actually existed in history.Loved that the author took time to explain her research and her fascination with this subject.
She also explains who and what were real and what was not.
Unforgettable.
This book was completely and utterly dynamic.
From the first word to the last I was enthralled with Sarah and Handful.
From the beginning they had a bond that couldn't be bought or broken.
Sarah promised Handful's mama she would free her and she did in so many ways.
What a beautiful book, it has definitely opened up new doors for me in what I am choosing to read.
The Invention of Wings was so powerful that it even made me rethink my opinions on slavery and how awful and degrading it truly was.
5 stars!
Read this book!
The invention of wings is a fictional recreation of the life of Sarah Grimké, one of the first American feminists and abolitionist who spent her prime years touring the United States giving speeches in favor of equality in gender and race.Born into an aristocratic family of the South and raised up in the culture of pro-slavery, she became an unusual woman who defied not only his family but also public opinion, societal norms and general belief and faced ostracism and permanent banishment because of her “radical” ideas.Unmarried, unusually cultured and plain in appearance, Sarah had to overcome her own disregard and fight against her own prejudices and fears with all her might to meet her fate and defend equal justice and equal value for those who were not white, not native-born or not male.Sue Monk Kidd rebuilds Sarah’s story blending factual happenings with invented aspects of Sarah’s life and personality, bestowing upon her the prominence that history refused her.
3.5 Stars   The Invention of Wings by Sue Monk Kidd was a really interesting and well researched novel about the lives of the Grimke Sisters.Firstly I have to applaud the author for including a detailed  Author's Note at the end of this beautiful novel and updating the readers on what is in fact fiction and what events really happened in the lives of the Grimke Sisters. I feel this is so important in historical fiction which is inspired by real events.I have read a good few books dealing with
The Invention of Wings by Sue Monk Kidd was a really interesting and well researched novel about the lives of the Grimke Sisters.Firstly I have to applaud the author for including a detailed  Author's Note at the end of this beautiful novel and updating the readers on what is in fact fiction and what events really happened in the lives of the Grimke Sisters.
That is probably why I love Historical fiction.The Invention of Wings is very well written in that it is powerful, sad and yet in places the humour comes through which makes the book uplifting and not depressing.I loved the character of Charlotte and I loved her spirit for life which was portrayed so well in the book.
The other, is Hetty “Handful” Grimke, the slave girl that Sarah is given on her 11th birthday.
Handful's story tells about her life growing up being a slave and her "friendship" with Sarah.
You learn about Handful, her mother, and eventually her sister.
Handful is a strong willed girl who pushes the limit, just like her mother.I have read a few stories about this time in our history, but with each new book, I learn something new.
I liked the fact that this story was based on the Grimke sisters.
The audio had two narrators - one for Sarah and one for Handful.
I read this book for book club a couple of years ago but didn’t realize the impact this book had on me until I started recommending it recently as a book that gives readers a glimpse into two very different childhoods.
I realize that as I get older how many people I talk to don’t know US history.
More importantly, people don’t have any comprehension of slavery or the impact that it had.
My short review doesn’t do justice to this book but it is worth reading and adding to peoples book clubs.
I hope that people will use this book to start discussions and conversations.
Basically it is a fairly run of the mill story about two girls of a similar age in the nineteenth century who grow up in different social settings – one a slave and one her owner.
Yes the story is interesting and the contrasts it paints between the different social strata of society in nineteenth century Charleston is well done.
Unfortunately my (proof) copy of the novel was defective with missing sections and others bound in the wrong order making it impossible to read from beginning to end and this may well have affected my enjoyment of it.
What a great read.
But it needs to be said that it was men who inspired and supported them to go national and be winners in their own way.The story about a friendship between a young girl and her slave, was touching, often heartbreaking, and real in a fictional way.
The sad part for me is that slavery is still continuing in other parts of the world today in even more shocking conditions, and nothing is said or done about it.
So many people had to die.The excellent way this story was written commemorates this part of history in such a way that many new generations of readers will get to learn about it.
This book is as good as people say it is!
Page-turning engrossing!
Vibrantly imagined!
Pulsing with life...(devastating torture, tender humanity, and an extraordinary achievement in storytelling) I'm giving it 5 Stars ---(4.5 stars for sure)!!!!!Given there must be at least 5,000 reviews of this book already ---I'm going to pick out a quote (page 115), in which I felt this story took a major turn.
A 'powerful' turn':"She had the look of someone who'd declared herself, and seeing it, my indignation collapsed and her mutinous bath turned into something else entirely.
She'd immersed herself in forbidden privileges, yes, but mostly in the belief she was worthy of those privileges.
I also really appreciate having Handful become as important in the novel as Sarah was, even though more people know about the true Sarah Grimke's life true life than the real Handful.While I didn't fall in love with the characters as much as I did in Secret Life of Bees, both of the leading characters are instant winners and deserve to be celebrated in the ingenious way Sue Monk Kidd portrays them.I have a feeling this novel is going to be eaten up by OWN TV in a matter of years, as the book is just screaming to be a historical feature film.
The book would have been far more enlightening and original had the author focused on the Grimke sisters, the difficulties of the time with promoting equality for all, and factual events vs 1/2 the novel being about a cliched, archetypal character.This read as a stereotypical novel that illustrates the cruel capability of mankind, but ultimately leaves you wanting more from the rushed and poorly developed segments that gave you a glimmer of hope regarding humanity.
Each family member has their own slave who attends to their needs, and therefore at the age of 11, and despite her young conviction that it is wrong, Sarah finds herself in possession of a young slave girl, Hetty "Handful".
As Sarah grows into a young woman, and then into middle age, her convictions about slavery and rights for women never dim, often to great personal sacrifice.
Her relationship with her mother, Charlotte, is colourfully depicted and touching.The stories of Sarah and Handful are equally compelling.
“She said it again, "I'm tired." She wanted me to tell her it was all right, to get her spirit and go on, but I couldn't say it. I told her, "Course you're tired. You worked hard your whole life. That's all you did was work." "Don't you remember me for that. Don't you remember I'm a slave and work hard. When you think of me, you say, she never belong to those people. She never belong to nobody but herself." She closed her eyes. "You remember that." "I will, mauma.” When Sarah Grimké turned 11 h
I'm pretty sure most of you know what slavery means and why it's so wrong, or at least, know that black people back then were literally things, owned, humiliated, hurt and controlled by their owners.We can see as Sarah grows that she and Handful while they consider each other friends, they grow apart from each other, not in the sense of hostility but they just do.
Sarah, later, embraces Quakerism and their views of the emancipation of the slaves and so does her younger sister.
As Handful once said to Sarah: "My body might be a slave, but not my mind.
On her eleventh birthday, Sarah is presented with Handful, the slave daughter of Charlotte, as her very own waiting maid – a gift she is unwilling to accept but unable to refuse.
Her mother, Charlotte, is desperate to escape and plots and plans to buy the freedom of her and her daughter.
Based on the life of real people, this novel follows the story of Sarah, her sister Nina, Charlotte and Handful.
There is much disappointment, pain and tragedy, as both Sarah and Handful struggle to take control of their world.
In this novel, the author gives both Sarah and Handful believable and courageous voices.
My favorite book in recent months.
Firstly let me apologise for the length of this review!It was the 1780s in Charleston, South Carolina when the day of Sarah Grimke’s eleventh birthday was to become the day of change in young Sarah’s life, though she was unaware of it at the time.
Based on fact the majority of the characters in this book are real people – Sarah and Angelina Grimke are historical figures of note, being the first women to strike out and be heard in the fight for the abolition of slavery, and the rights of women.
Excellent mix of fiction and the real.
This well-written book brings slavery to the personal level and depicts just how cruel, ingrained, and tightly grasped it was in a large part of our country.
Speaking out and "mixing" brought its own extreme difficulties especially if you were a woman.
The book is set just before the Civil War and big things are starting to change - terrifying!
This is a great book to read for a grounding in the abolition movement and the beginnings of the cry for the equality of women!
It is the fictional story that gives me trouble.
Here she lives on and is used by the author to show us the horrors of slave life in Charleston, South Carolina.
It is this fictional story that doesn't ring true to me.
There are cups of tea on roof tops, things like that, which create a feel good story that people so love......
Am I too much of a non-fiction book lover for this?
Should I give up on historical fiction completely?The narration by Jenna Lamia who voices Sarah's story and Adepero Oduye who speaks Hetty's, the slave girl's story, are distinct.
One is Hetty Handful Grimke, a slave, and the other 11 year old Sarah Grimke, a middle daughter of her well to do parents.
The gift is Handful, to be her own maid and slave.
Through this fictional work based on real characters and events, Sue Monk Kidd manages, not only to covey the atrocities inflicted on slaves, but also, though not in the same magnitude as the treatment suffered by slaves, the confines white women of the time had to contend with.From the first page I was engrossed in this book.
Wow. This book showcases why historical fiction is my favorite genre. The real historical characters and places are tightly woven with an interesting cast of a few fictional characters to help the story grow and develop. Sarah Grimke, you are my hero. Handful, you are an inspiration.My favorite quote was in the author's note at the end of the book...."History is not just facts and events. History is also a pain in the heart and we repeat history until we are able to make another's pain in the heart our own.”Professor Julius Lester"Absolute must read. 5☆
The Invention of Wings is GREAT from beginning to end. I can't believe I put this book off for so long! Kidd wrote a beautiful, insightful and well researched book. Written in alternating voices and inspired by the life of the Grimke sisters, the fact and fiction were seamless. If you like historical fiction, this a must read. Favorite Quote: “History is not just facts and events. History is also a pain in the heart and we repeat history until we are able to make another’s pain in the heart our own.”
