https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1693617.Disney_s_The_Lion_King
Disney's the Lion King, Don FergusonDisney's The Lion King is a ninety-six page picture book adaptation of the film of the same name.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هجدهم ماه آوریل سال 2002 میلادیعنوانها: شاه شیر؛ شیر شاه؛ نویسنده: دان فرگوسن؛ ا. شربیانی
Rereading rereading rereading...I really looooooooove my daughter. :-)
Simba, Nala, Timon and Pumba all headed back to the land that had been destroyed by Scar.
Simba took over the leadership role he was born for.Simba is a young lion in the beginning who finds out he's the future king.
Mufasa is the father of Simba and the king of the land.
Nala is another lion cub about the same age who becomes Simba's best friend.
During the course of a about a year that it takes him to go from a cub to a adult lion.What I took away from this book is "What goes around comes around".
The son (Simba) of the head lion (Mufasa) must step up and take over the family, but first he must over come his own self doubt.
This is a great story for primary children, ages 5-8.The Lion King has good versus evil where good is the winner.
The artist of this story did a great job.
The pictures are big and colorful and can easily grab the child's attention.
The pictures all help the child understand what is going on in the story.
This book should be read to everyones child because it integrates animals, family problems, and how to be brave.
I remember when my mom used to read this book to me when I was really young. I love the story of the lions and how Simba over came his fear of thinking that he killed his father when he actually didn't. One of my favorites when I was a little girl.
The book was a little long, but it did a good job summarizing the movie. The kids remembered watching the movie and some also watch The Lion Guard. They enjoyed roaring with the book. We read this after going to the zoo.
I bought a few of these books in the series. My kids and Grandkids loved them.
Būdama penktokė apie šią knygą savo sąsiuvinukyje užrašiau: "Šioje knygoje visas liūtuko Simbos gyvenimas. (view spoiler)[Simba turėjo labai piktą dėdę Rėžį, kuris nužudė jo tėtę Mufasą. Tada Simba pabėga iš Tauriosios šalies. Bet po kiek laiko grįžta ir susikauna su savo dėde. (hide spoiler)]" Ir šalia nupiešiau liūtuką Simbą.
Great book.....excellent for kids
Cute story for kids who are fans of the movie.
I read this to a few kids today, they were interested to know if Scar actually died. I didn't get to read or watch this in my childhood... better late than never.
This is a creative imaginative book that allows kids to cherish family. The illustrations bring the characters to life.
I love this book so much. The hidden messages are great and the book in my opinion is better than the movie because you can use your imagination to visualize whatever you want.
Amazing book love the part with adddavenyyaa Adavechiavors
Traditional lit- This book talks about a little lion cub and that he will be the king someday.
My brother love the movie.
Very excellent adaptation of a wonderful movie.
Is a amazing and beautiful book.
Classic Disney. **Spoiler** The part where Simba's Dad dies gets me every time!!!!
Bang a great cry. I loved this book, but me being a Disney fanatic it's hard to say no to a good Disney read. I believe this book would best benefit children who grow up losing a family member as there is a death in the book. Regarding what age the book best fits, I would recommend preschool age because its a book that helps children develop and understand their emotions.
It resolves around an exciting character "Simba", a baby lion who is next in line to be the king after his father "Mustafa".
Mustafa's brother and Simba's uncle "Scar" portrays a greedy and jealous character who desires more power.
Scar eventually kills his own brother Mustafa and blames Simba for his father's death.
Children with age 6 and above would find it a very exciting read.
Not only that, it can server any teacher as a group story telling exercise, and can also be used as an independent learning / understanding exercise for children.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
And if not, you can always help start on.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
The lion King is and always will be a great Disney classic.
We are told the story in breathtaking fashion in this book.
The story itself is an important one as it explores politics from the animal kingdom point of view and children can relate better to these concepts.
The Kane and Abel story from the bible is one story of a brothers deceit and The Lion King is one that a child's mind can understand and possibly peak interest in and understand why certain characters have certain viewpoints.
I would recommend this book to any child.
This is one of my favorite Disney movies so of course I had to read the book.
Lion King begins with a huge celebration of Simba's birth throughout the land.
It quickly progresses to when he's a cub and learns that he is the future king of Pride Rock.
I like how bright the pictures are and how if kids wanted to read the book and then watch the movie they could.
Some of the many messages that could be taught in a classroom could be, remember who you are, obey your parents, and finding courage.
It is a story from lions the king of savanna.
The king muphasa got a son and every animal in savanna has praised him.
And his uncle scar was a smart lion that has a dream.
One day simba’s father tries to save samba and he died.
And scar scared samba that muphasa has died because of you.
And samba run away and scar has become a king.
But later when samba grow up and he was a brave, mighty, and kind lion.
And finally he killed Scar and became a king of savanna as his father.
Have you ever read a story about lions? Well if you have that's great lions are really interesting if you ask me. But In this story it gets really sad well in my opinion i think its sad maybe not yours. In this book i believe the genre is happy and maybe sad. My opinion about this book is that its really good and happy but them turns into sadness. But other then the sadness part its REALLY REALLY GOOD!! its terrific in my opinion i don't know about yours because different people have their own different opinion.
As a child, this was one of my favorite stories.
I watched the movie version of it first and then my parents bought the book for us because we loved it so much.
This story shows how courage can take you places and how important family and friends can be.
There was a sad part that I remember crying about.
As a young reader, it taught me that sad things happen in life but it is important to learn from the event and move on.
As a teacher, I will have this book in my classroom to use along with the movie.
Lets just say that its hard to beat the original. I am sure that everyone remembers watching the movie "The Lion King". Its a very memorable movie and for some, admittedly me, it can be better that the book itself. The movie had to originate from somewhere and I am glad that is stuck very close to the book. The characters are the same and the events are the same. There was something about the images that captivated me and although there are a few sad moments in the book, the final mood is happy
The version I read to my granddaughter was from a book of collections of Disney's books. The full story. The illustrations are great so it holds the attention of the young listeners as you read to them. A young lion will soon become the King especially after his own Dad dies. But he runs away and finishes growing up with his friends a warthog and a meerkat but after he is grown he comes back to the pride and fights his uncle for his rightful place as King.
