https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3393124-max

Max just rescues her mom and then skips off into the sunset with the flock, totally forgetting that some really lame villain is still alive and at work out there.
Bleehh.I love -- excuse me, I mean hate -- how Patterson totally forgets to tell us who the voice is in this one.
Lol.It also really annoys me that Patterson had Max and Fang make out in front of Brigid and the flock, and he doesn't show their reactions AT ALL.
I mean, Fang and Max had great sexual tension in all the books before.
This book was so awesome and I couldn't put it down. The group really had to lean on the support of others in this book, and I loved the new powers! James Patterson finally got Max and Fang together which I loved. This was the book to read in this series.
i do not think it will be as good as the first three, the fourth was a let down. i personally like max better when shes on the run and kicking eraser/flyboy butt rather than saving the world
Max is off to save the world. Again. This time on a submarine.I know; you’re in shock.My favorite parts of this book included . . .a. Progress in the romance department—always a good thing.b. The B.S. training aka Max and the flock whipping the pants off a certain navy training program that is supposed to take umpteen days and is completed by said bird kids in less than 24 hours.c. Did I mention, progress in the romance department?
Feel free to disagree with it.The characters are...sorta annoying.
They won't shut up about having wings.
It doesn't even make a lick of sense with how their powers are explained in this chapter.
The talking winged dog and the SIX year old that beats a MARINE in hand to hand combat.
"Oh, I need to stop the MC’s mother, so I'm gonna kidnap her daughter, wound her, but then let her go because...Wait, why am I letting her go again instead of just keeping her and using her as leverage?" And this is just a sample of all the things that annoyed me.
Ugh. Don't get me wrong- I loved the first three Maximum Ride books, when Patterson only intended them to be a trilogy.
Remember when every day was a struggle just to survive, when everyone was an enemy- especially the average, wingless Joe walking down the street?
Patterson has somehow managed to completely trash what began as a sparse, dry, heart-stopping, tear-jerking thriller about a most unlikely family struggling to survive in a completely hostile world.
To think that he plans to write seven more Max books breaks my heart.
that was just annoying because she learned in the last book that she shouldn't get into situations where she needs to be saved, and then goes and Max has to go try to save her, even when she doesn't feel like she needs to be saved.
in the 4th book, it said Brigid was blond, and in this one, she was a redhead.
and the second (i think) it said Max had "Blond-streaked" hair and said she had brown in this.
it also had a weird feel to it, compared to the other books.
I am sure that I might throw this at the wall while in the process of reading .
Machine Geeks?
Come on, Patterson, the Erasers were cooler than that.
At least they actually FIGHT something in this one .
I hope there will be some fang+max stuff .
save the fish!
it looks so gay .
what happened to itex?
i don't think they resolved everything of that matter in the first 3 books .
i want some good stuff here!
okay now i am just venting about how sucky they book sounds.
Grr.**EDIT**I gained repect for James Patterson again.
Read this book if you like:  young adult, the flock, children with wings (!), evil scientists, a whole lot of fun, creepy children with sometimes creepy mannerisms, flying, pretty action-packed reads
"Max" is the fifth book in The Maximum Ride Novels.
This book is written for a younger audience (perhaps eight to fourteen-year-olds) but adults will fall in love with the characters too.
Angel is the precocious six-year-old who, like typical six-year-olds, does what she wants without thinking of possible consequences.
I liked the other characters too, but they play lesser roles in this story.
The language used is clean and the story lines are suitable for younger readers.
I could not put the book down and I really believe most kids will become enchanted with Max and her friends.
Oh my god, I LOVE this series, it is soooooooooo epic. I also love The Hunger Games, Percy Jackson, Harry Potter, Alex Rider, The GateKeepers, Dreamhouse Kings, Danial X, Witch and Wizard, Gone, Leven Thumps, H.I.V.E., Sisters Grimm, The Secret Series, The 39 Clues, Pendragon, The Cronos Chronicles, and a lot of other stuff, but that's just right off the top of my head.
I'm hoping it doesn't taint my overall view of his work.Anyways, with that being said, here are the few many issues I had with this story in general.
1. Max went from being very confused about Fang's intentions and wanting to keep the brother/sister aspect strong to being head over heels in love.
Yes, I know he loves his dog friend, he is a dog too, but talking about marriage?
In fact, this was my biggest peeve, all of Max's lists.
Despite that fact, I'll probably read the next installment, just because I already have it checked out from the library, but if it gets much worse, I might have to draw the line.
Maximum Ride = Marvelous ReadingAs leader of her Flock, Max is tough and resilient.
This group of bird kids makes an amazing team.I read Fang when it first released not realizing it was part of a series.
When I heard about Angel, I decided to read the whole series so I could experience it from the beginning.
I read the whole series.Angel is less action-packed and more touchy-feely than the earlier books.
Being girlie and all, I liked seeing this side of Max. Angel leads up to the final challenge that will be included in the eighth book next year.
Moving onto the negatives...-The whole thing is random and not relevant to the rest of the series.
I mean, we heard basically NOTHING about Erasers and scientists.
However, that does not mean we want books about it.
If you ask me, the Maximum Ride series was polluted by all this enviro-junk.
And of course, Max&Flock win every single fight (obviously.
But it's freaking annoying that it's all that the books are being focussed on.
The Erasers were more scary than them, anyway!-Give us some answers, PLEASE.
What does Max need to save the world from?
I couldn't even get myself to finish this one and book #4 was ok but not good!The storyI'm sorry but what is happening??
Suddenly the focus is shifting to Global Warming and where are the criminals coming from and WHY are Max and Fang not together yet??
(hide spoiler)]I mean WTF??The only reason I was actually forcing myself to finish this was for Max and Fang!(I'm sorry but the story just doesn't hold my attention anymore)The first three books were so great dear author!
You should have ended this series then.Why ruin something good by not ending it at the right time?["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
How on earth did a series with so much potential and so much excitement get so bad?This recent installment is better than the fourth book, but nowhere near as exciting as the first.
Anyways,contrary to the fourth book, Max actually has a complete plot!
Nice save, Patterson, but not good enough.
Although there is a plot line in this book, it is not well-developed.
And since when did Max completely decide that she loved Fang?
The perfect Fang/Max relations are strange, since the two are constantly fighting even though it's clear that they love each other.
It's not like I expected much from this; the only reason I read it was because it was just sitting there at the library, and I had a couple of hours to kill.The flock really isn't doing anything anymore, and they've really devolved from fairly badass characters into mushy, cliched, idiotic teenagers.
If I can have some sort of coherent thought process, can't MAX!?I've actually gone through the first three books after reading the stupid-fest that was Max. Were they even written by the same person!?
Patterson, did you forget what your own characters look like!?
Max literally got stupider.
She asks so many stupid questions, three fourths of the BOOK is EXPOSITION.Really Patterson?
So, I'm rereading this series for the thousandth time (I can;'t help it, I love these books. Stop judging me) and I've forgotten how much happens in the last three book. (view spoiler)[ I will think about things like Dylan, and Max forgiving Fang about Maya (Max 2) or even how Angel was the voice. (hide spoiler)] I've also forgotten how much The Final Warning and Max talk about global warming. At first I was thinking "okay, that sounds legit", but then everyone was talking about global warming f
So, I'm rereading this series for the thousandth time (I can;'t help it, I love these books.
Stop judging me) and I've forgotten how much happens in the last three book.
(view spoiler)[ I will think about things like Dylan, and Max forgiving Fang about Maya (Max 2) or even how Angel was the voice.
(hide spoiler)] I've also forgotten how much The Final Warning and Max talk about global warming.
(view spoiler)[ when Dylan shows up and Fang leaves with Maya is when everything gets interesting.
(hide spoiler)]Max and Fang have a cycle: Fly somewhere.
To be frank, this book was a pile of dog poop.
Yes. Dog.
Poop.Please.
I really did love Max.Well...
until the third book.GAH.
It's been what, one, two years since I read this book, so stuff are gonna be fuzzy.Soooo...
This series should've ended on the third book.
YES.
PUKED.(Oh my, I'll bet the Max fans are puking now.)Hahaha.
Wasn't that just a hilarious joke?Yes. THERE ARE PEOPLE OUT THERE IN THE WORLD THAT HATE THE NEW FANG.Oh yeah.
And then their new super powers.
They don't need that many super powers.
There are things in this world called FLAWS.
(4.5)I really liked this book.
there was a lot of character development through out the book.
I love all of the flock members of course(except for angel, she still creeps me out, she may be a 6 year old, but she can control other peoples minds and read thoughts...
like, just think about that O.o)Max will always be one of my favorite characters for sure.Now, what's going on between Max and Fang?
the only thing I didn't like in the book is how ella (Max's step sister) isn't included that much in the series all together.
I just hope I see more of her through out the series.
*bounces in waiting anticipation*
OMG WOW! Max and her flock totally kicked arse in this book!
This one is far better than the last one.
I don't love it, but it was a marked improvement.
Since it's quick to read these audiobooks (about 3 hours on double speed), I've decided to keep plugging.
For some reason, I want to complete the series, as I am curious how it will all wrap up.
If I were reading in print, I probably would have quit by now, but on audiobook, these are fast pasted.
I still think this is a good series for middle grade readers, especially reluctant readers.
It's not like Mr. Patterson had some great rep to uphold, but the expectation for fun in this series was set high in the first three books.
Max, the narrator, was always funny and mouthy, but she becomes a lame stereotype for 90% of this book.
I guess there might be bigger burgs in like China or something, but boy howdy, Mexico City seems endless."burgs?
In this, the 5th installment of this popular series where the author obviously made less effort to make the book coherent and enjoyable, there is a special box on the back flap of the bookjacket, right above the author bio, that reads:"In the spirit of the most enduring hit movies and books, James Patterson has written this story for readers from ten to a hundred and ten.
I loved this book!
It has Max and the flock flying around doing air shows to help raise awareness of what is happening.
While they're down there terrible things happen, and Max finally realizes she can't do everything herself.
I think he did a great thing by incorporating Global Warming and even a little love story in here.
The title of the book, MAX, fits great because this one is about Max. It's about her struggles as leader and as a teenage girl.
THey are great books for teenagers seeking adventure and who are trying to save the world.
The plot, which started off as 'running for their lives', somehow ended up as 'saving the world'.
I really don't get it - does James Patterson mean saving the world, as in environmentally?
Because the plots of the series usually focuses on Max getting kidnapped or someone else.
In this case, it's Doctor Martinez...Also, I really want to know where all these powers (breathing underwater, invisibility, etc.) come from, and what are they for?
Where did Max's voice come from?
I was incredibly excited and started it immediately.
If I were simply comparing this book to the fourth book, it would get four or five stars.
But I'm writing a review, so it gets two stars.
Especially the gills.
Gills?
The series has officially turned green.
Of course, I'm all for going green and everything, but the Maximum Ride series isn't a good place to teach kids about global warming.
How exciting!3.
I gave this book two stars and not one because:1.
As I stated earlier, this was a huge improvement over the fourth book.Overall, it isn't the worst book I've ever read.
Basic InfoFormat: Audio Pages/Length: n/a Genre: Young Adult; Fantasy At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Obsession Cliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 2 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  6Plot: 4Characters: 5World Building: 4Flow:  5Series Congruity: 6Writing: 5Ending: 5Total: 5In DeptBest Part: Short!Worst Part: Bored.
Thoughts Had: SHUT UP!ConclusionContinuing the Series: ehhhhhhhhhRecommending: No.Short Review: Hey do you remember that these kids had gills, i sure as hell don't SINCE IT WAS ALMOST NEVER MENTIONED TIL THIS DAMN BOOK.
Also did you know they were in a submarine, I DO BECAUSE THEY FREAKING MENTION IT A THOUSAND DAMN TIMES!
Did you know Max loves Fang, I DO BECAUSE SHE NEVER STOPS TALKING/THINKING ABOUT HIM.
Will Max and her flock be able to save the world or will all their efforts go to waste?I picked up this book because I simply loved the previous books in this series.
After reading the last book, Final Warning I just had to read the next book, Max. I finished this book because I wanted to know if the flock would be able to save the world, from people who were polluting the ocean.
I sure wouldn't.I would recommend this book to Vaishni, because she read the previous books in this series.
