https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12000020-aristotle-and-dante-discover-the-secrets-of-the-universe
I never felt like I was a part of their world.Throughout the book, Aristotle and Dante are exposed and layered, continually growing more complex but also becoming more bare.
Every description of Dante’s laugh, every time the boys would call each other weird, every moment they spent together – it felt like I was there, experiencing their friendship and their bond.Have you ever heard that saying, if there’s a book you want to read but it’s not published, write it yourself?
Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe will speak to Mexican-Americans, homosexuals, tom-girls, book nerds, loners, etc.
We follow them through funny episodes, horrific accidents and tragic losses, watching their awkward and tentative friendship turn into the sort of bond that will challenge what Ari believes about himself and his capacity for love.I won’t give away the ending, but I kept thinking about it long after I finished the book.
It didn’t end the way I expected it to, perhaps because of my own point-of-view and life experience, but I now see it ended the only way it could, as Ari learns how to reject the story others have written for him and write his life himself.
This book was so so beautiful.In actuality, it doesn't have a "plot".
Not a main story or event that the characters center around.
I actually really liked Aristotle, the main character, even though he's kind of a jerk.
And the ending was beautiful.
I really related to the main character, his struggles of culture and feeling lonely and regretting growing up.
I just wanted to hug Aristotle.I didn't realize how much I loved this book until it ended.
I flew through it so quickly that I didn't realize how beautiful it was, how happy it made me feel.
I'M NOT CRYING YOU'RE CRYING
Boys like me belonged to the rain.”I've heard so many good things about this novel and seen it all over Tumblr.
I also finished reading it right away.My thoughts:Well, first of all, I love the way I can identify with Ari and Dante, but especially with Ari. Sometimes his stubbornness got on my nerves and I wanted to shake him and tell him that he should just go and love Dante.
But as he grows older he learns and experiences things, especially through Dante, he changes.
I want - need - a sequel!Reread:I'm still very much in love with this book.
Throw in some philosophical musings and a generous helping of poetic teen angst and you should be serving up a new favourite of mine, right?Apparently not.I love deep, complex and emotional contemporary YA that reminds me why I still read books aimed at teens.
But it all felt like a good old example of trying too hard.
The characters of Aristotle and Dante are two very different individuals who form an instant connection and go on to become close friends, but they never seemed like anything but caricatures of angsty teens with the pretentious poetry reading and frequent philosophical phrases that made me cringe.
Maybe my father was like that too.I thought of Dante and wondered about him.”
Even though it’s shelved as LGBT (which IS true and shelved it myself as it too), there is a good part of this story where it doesn’t feel that way.
I just think at least one scene would have been so spectacular to have narrated by him.It’s weird because Ari has sisters (and a brother) but we never actually really got to meet them or get to know those sisters.
I feel like they usually bring a nice atmosphere inside a story and this one-a dog-sure did.Also, you need to know that this is a sad story.
“Swimming and you, Ari. Those are the things I love the most.”And even though Ari tells him not to voice those thoughts it’s still obvious that he feels the same way about Dante as well.
Their friendship was #friendshipgoals and it were always those little, to some people rather insignificant moments, which touched me the most and automatically warmed my heart.”How many burgers did you flip to buy the book?”“That’s a very Dante question,” I said.“That’s a very Ari answer,” he said.And then we started laughing and couldn’t stop.Also can I say how much I loved the way Ari described his relationship to his mother?
it gets points for featuring an untraditional LGBT protagonist; a young mexican-american boy with few social attachments, dealing with his distant war-haunted father, his much older, clucking sisters, the (figurative) ghost of his brother, about whom no one has spoken since he was incarcerated, and his own inability to make emotional connections, or even feel much of anything except a simmering, inarticulate rage.
to use this portion of a david foster wallace interview i just read:That's why people use terms like flow or effortless to describe writing that they regard as really superb.
I'M CRYING. THIS BOOK WAS BEAUTIFUL.
Absolutely beautiful.
“Maybe we just lived between hurting and healing.”   I put off writing this review for months and months. Not because I didn't want to write it - I did. Believe me, I've worked this draft over and over like it's my magnum opus. I just wanted to get this review right, and to really communicate exactly how much this book means to me. I failed, but I did my best. This review is going to be grossly personal, because this book meant so much to me personally. To me it wasn't just a cute book or a fun
To me it wasn't just a cute book or a fun read - it felt like someone had gone into my brain and tore out all the thoughts and feelings I didn't want everyone else to know about.
I truly don't think you can understand unless you've experienced it or are experiencing it what it's like, and its impossible for me to explain, but this book got about as close as you can get to putting it into words.
I hate that people make this book about Ari and Dante relationship as a couple and don't think about their growth as people - or their deep friendship that was already a relationship before the final pages.
This book is perfection
Such an amazing story about love, identity, and family. I really feel everyone should read this book.
Update Feb 2017Lowering my rating to 3 stars since I think 4.5 was super duper generous 4.5*I just didn't really love it as much as I had thought I would. Another case of a book being too hyped up for it to possibly live up to my expectations unfortunately. That being said I did still really enjoy it and thing it was a beautiful story, pretty similar to some other books I've read though.
okay, im bumping up my original rating because sometimes i find myself randomly thinking about this book, even months after finishing this, so obviously i liked it more than i initially thought i did.
i dont think i have ever related to a teenaged boy before, but this book changed that.
this book is dedicated ‘for all the boys who have had to learn to play by different rules’ and i couldnt describe this story more perfectly than that if i tried.
as you can tell, i enjoyed this, so check back again in a few weeks because i will probably bump the rating up again.
That was just straight up beautiful. I put off reading it for so long because I saw everyone's reviews that they were crying and I thought this book would be depressing. But it's not. Not at all. I usually don't get as into books that are mostly dialogue, but this one totally pulled me in... I could feel everything Ari went through. And I know I'm like the last person left to get to this story, so I'll just say that the hype is real.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH MYSELF.• Also I so so freaking love Ari. He is beautiful and angry and sweet and a little bit sassy.• I actually didn't find the story slow or meandering AT ALL in this reread.
I just want to hug these beautiful sentences and thoughts and words and wish I could write like this someday.• I LOVE the family relationships.
Wow. WOW.• Did I mention the writing is so beautiful?• My only thing about the ending, in retrospect is, (view spoiler)[I kind of wish Ari had made some indication that he loved Dante romantically.
This is a beautiful book teens absolutely need to read.
Do you remember the feeling you get when you watch the sun rise or set?Do you remember the feeling you get when you're so happy that you felt like flying?Do you remember the feeling you get when you're so sad and alone that you felt like curling yourself into a ball and wishing you never had to move on?Do you remember the feeling you get when you're so mad that you don't know why your mad?Do you remember the feeling you get when you wished you knew the mysteries of life?Well, this book brought up all those feelings.
Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe is beautiful.
"Someday, I'm going to discover all the secrets of the universe."
"As Dante was watching me search the sky through the lens of a telescope, he whispered, 'Someday, I'm going to discover all of the secrets of the universe.'"  All of the stars in the universe - an instant favourite. As some of you may know, I'm a sucker for a good coming-of-age love story, and this one completely delivered. I read this in one sitting. One. I don't think you understand, I'm ADHD, I hardly ever finish a book in one sitting. But this book? I refused to put it down. I said I'd read
I completely understood what Dante and Ari where always talking about - how they wanted to discover the secrets of the universe.
Aristotle and Dante took place (correct me if I got the dates wrong, please) in the summers of 1985 - 1987, yet it seemed to flow much nicer, and much more naturally in this book.
I could go on for hours about Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe, but instead of that, I'll end the review with my favourite quote from it:
I was fifteen.I was bored.I was miserable.As far as I was concerned, the sun could have melted the blue right off the sky. Then the sky could be as miserable as I was.  This started off well, continued to, and was living up to my expectations, but then everything went down a little. I noticed things I didn't notice before. I wasn't even gonna bother with writing a review for this but I got 2 friends telling me to hurry up and write it although I got other things to do that involve school since
I'm just gonna say this: Aristotle and Dante become really good friends who end up doing things none expected to do together and just want to discover the hidden secrets of the universe.
Dante and Ari were characters that one can enjoy reading about, maybe even relatable to some, but there was still nothing that was even interesting about either one.One thing I completely loved about this was the relationship between Dante and Ari. They were such different characters but they managed to get along and just share a lot in common.
BEAUTIFUL. THAT WAS BEAUTIFUL.
So, this is probably going to be the last review I write bc I don’t think I’m going to survive the boycotting my friends are going to inflict on me after I roast this book.Firstly, I want to apologize to the world.
Secondly, WHAT THE HECK WAS THE POINT OF THIS BOOK??!!??So the beginning was cute.
This is the second time I've read this book now and I still have no words...This book is honestly the most beautiful book I have ever read. It's so precious and I deeply connect with it in a way that I don't often do when reading a book. This book truly is a blessing and I beg you all to read it. It's so important and well written and real and stunning and precious and true and perfect I just can't even express it!!!!
Ahh this was everything I hoped it would be and more. Full Review on YouTube: https://youtu.be/vtntRxbpS4c
This was such a quick read! I can definitely understand why so many people love this book - had tears in my eyes a few times!
Es una historia que nos enseña a valorarnos por lo que somos, sin importar lo que los demás piensen o digan de nosotros.
Una historia que nos enseña a ver y encontrar lo que más nos hace felices, a apreciar a los que te quieren, demostrarles tu afecto siempre que puedas y a no juzgar a otros por las apariencias.
Benjamin Alire Sáenz escribió un relato mágico, que transmite paz y esperanza.Sin embargo,Cuatro aspectos negativos: ► Me costó mucho encariñarme con Aristotle.
► Los personajes me gustaron.
No obstante, hay algunos que no están muy bien desarrollados: son solo son nombres, no personas.Por lo demás, buen libro.
this book is seriously so cute and wonderful. it was so much different than what I expected going into it and ugh I just want everyone to read this.
Durante las primeras páginas era incapaz de encontrar por qué la gente amaba tanto este libro, y unas páginas más adelante lo pude entender.
Pero volví a lo mismo, a partes tediosas, sin trama, que hacían que la novela no fuera nada del otro mundo.
Sin embargo, durante las últimas 100 páginas creo que conseguí conectar mucho más con los personajes y con la historia.
Vale, estaba lleno de reflexiones innecesarias, pero las páginas llenas de diálogos transmitiendo tanto o cómo refleja las emociones o los valores de amistad y familia, creo que es increíble.
THIS BOOK IS SO SO SO SO SO SO SOOOOO BEAUTIFUL
