https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1563183.The_Living_Bible
I have had the same copy since I first bought it in 1974 and go back to it constantly. I don't use this Bible as a Study Bible but just as an inspirational meditational Bible. I realize that it is only a paraphrase but it speaks to me, I guess to my Inner Child. I find peace and comfort as well as direction. I have about 7 or 8 different translations of the Bible but I think this is the one I cling to when I really need to "Feel" His presence.
I purchased this Bible probably over 40 years ago. It was a K-mart blue light special and I was so glad I got it because for me its easier to read. My copy is highlighted and marked up with hundreds of notes. I carried it to Sunday school and church very often. Date purchased and first read is a guess. I wonder if I put the date in it. Will have to check. It was first published in July 1971. The twenty-seventh printing was September 1973.
Ephesians 3:17-19Living Bible (TLB)17 And I pray that Christ will be more and more at home in your hearts, living within you as you trust in him.
May your roots go down deep into the soil of God’s marvelous love; 18-19 and may you be able to feel and understand, as all God’s children should, how long, how wide, how deep, and how high his love really is; and to experience this love for yourselves, though it is so great that you will never see the end of it or fully know or understand it.
My mom sent me this BIBLE with my name engraved on it, when I was away at college, eleven years ago. I'm so glad she did because this BIBLE was easy to read and kindle my love for GOD's Word. It was the first and only bible I've read in it's entirety and has been strength and much needed these past eleven years, especially the last six years:)
My quest to sit down and read the bible. Although I am not very religious (hardly really), I am curious about the stories held within.My plan is to read it more as a story book than as the word of God. I've never done very well with rule books anyway.
Truly brought me to Jesus Christ and God and made me feel very happy while reading it. Beautiful.
I really love reading this paraphrase of the Bible because it's so easy to read. The first copy I had fell apart so I picked up another one at McKay. This isn't a study Bible, and for me, it more easily read than The Message.
Though I've read this several times, I'm now going through it reading only the red-letter words of Jesus. Trying to figure something out! Ok finished. It was refreshing to read only Jesus words and realize that's all that he said that we have record of. I think everyone should try this.
How come it says god created the earth and the universe altogether at the same time when the earth is approximately 4.6 billion years old and the universe is 13.7 billion years old?
How come it says that all animals were originally created as herbivores?Genesis 2God must not be omnipotent because he's already gotten tired after only 6 days of work.
My sister gave me this Bible years ago. Have read it through completely. Was helpful because it was written so that a young child could easily understand it. Recommend it for that very reason to those who are in the early phase of searching about The Things of God.
I finally got this Bible on my Kindle! My hardback is falling apart. I love this translation because it is so easy to understand.
This is our favorite version of the bible. My husband & I read it daily.
Life changing material.
I have used this Bible for years I thought this Application would be nice to have on my padLove having the Bible on my tablet. Very convenient, easy to navigate and it also has lot's of features. Really enjoy this.
I've read both the living bible and NIV versions while growing up. I really loved these versions. One was a children's bible (complete text though) with pictures in it. The NIV had beautiful photos in it of biblical places. I'm hoping to find a version like these but Catholic.
The first Bible I read from cover to cover finishing sometime in 1981.
I suppose it should be expected in a paraphrase, but I was disappointed at the doctrinal bias (or simple ignorance) woven into the word choices.
That said, for someone wanting to do a quick read through (like I did), the conversational tone makes it flow smoothly.
I liked some of the places where the creative license of a paraphrase allows for word choices in English that better emphasize the true meanings of the original language.
In the end, translations and paraphrases both have a place.
AND NOW, WHAT about the coming again of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our being gathered together to meet Him ?
If you hear of people having visions and special messages from God about this, or letters that are supposed to have come from me, don't believe them.
For that day will not come until two things happen : first, there will be a time of great rebellion against God, and then the man of rebellion will come .
And you know what is keeping him from being here already ; for he can come only when his time is ready.2 Thessalonians 2 : 1-6
[Rating is for it being a paraphrase, not an actual translation.]Reading again starting in 2016 for a modified version of the How to Change Your Mind Bible reading plan (instead of using one translation for all the read-throughs, I'm using a different translation each time).Have read so far:Genesis - May-June 2016Job - May 2017
Got through about half of both the Old and New testaments. Will pick up this project again when I feel ready. I like this translation because it's more readable than others I've tried and failed to read. It was my grandmother's Bible and it has some of her notes and scribbles in it, so I cherish that. I will save my comments for private conversations.
Again, a much easier to read version of the Bible at the time it was printed, and so much easier to read than the King James Version. I do recommend now though the NIV (New International Version) which I think is better written than this version ... however, it is STILL the "Greatest Story Ever Told" ...
I have read most of the Bible, in one form or another, but choose not to rate it. There is no honest way to rate the Bible. Your belief, or for many, their desire to believe, influences how the rate it. If you believe, it's a 5, and if you don't it's a 1.
I enjoyed the read of each of the 66 books contained within.An easy read for anyone.Read for personal research.Overall, a good book for the researcher and enthusiast.I found this book's contents helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.
The Physics of Immortality: Modern Cosmology, God and the Resurrection of the Dead
As long as one understands this is a paraphrase and not a translation, it's enjoyable for personal use. But, I stick to the NRSV when working on my academic studies.
Call Number: 220.5 KJ-TYNGift of Joyce BOOTH.Reference.
Believe it or not, one of my therapist's father helped to put this version together. Very easy to read.
Favorite book: John
This has always been my favorite version for reading the old testament. It is so easy to read, it just flows smoothly. I definitely think its the best paraphrase out there
I first read many passages over the course of a couple years, then read it from cover to cover. Easy to read.
