https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/901310.Mustang
We read this one together sometime in the mid-80s (1986 is a guess), as well as the author's King of the Wind: The Story of the Godolphin Arabian, and I really liked both of them myself.Here, Henry turned her attention to the plight of the mustangs, wild horses of the American West descended from stock that escaped from the Spanish conquistadores, through the lens of the life story (up to 1966, when the book was written) of the activist who was primarily responsible for preventing them from being slaughtered into extinction in the 20th century.
Annie had her own mustang, Hobo, and had grown up around them as working horses, so she was horrified to find that mustangs were being rounded up wholesale from the wild country and sent to petfood plants.
Not only planes and trucks were used, but horses were roped and left trying to run dragging large tyres, a scene re-enacted in a Marilyn Monroe film.
The mustangs are not safe today as more wild mustangs and burros are in holding pens than run free, and reports abound of so-called ranchers buying truckloads at tiny sums and trucking them across the Canadian border for slaughter.
Amazing as always. Warning: It will make you want to start a political movement.
I have only read this book twice, so forgive me if the details are a bit sketchy.Another fictionalization of a true story, but this one's a little closer to the truth.
Annie's life was full of ups and downs.
But it's her love of horses that really makes her special to you, and how she helps the mustangs is simply inspiring.Even today, mustangs are in danger as people in the American government do their best to undo the hard work of people like Annie.
Reading this book will kindle the fire to protect them in anyone who has a heart, and that is where its true merit lies, all other considerations aside.
I read this book when I was about 12. It may have been the first lesson I got in the importance of the land and of animals.
As a kid in the 1960s I looked forward to getting new horse books by Maruerite Henry for birthday or other special occasions. I was a horse fanatic.
The beginning was really good then it just got boring and redundant. Honestly, during this time period there were far more pressing matters Annie should have worried about than horses. It was a tad annoying. Horses are not my fave thing and I like to stay as far from them as possible so I really didn’t care for this book. Oh well. The kids in my book club liked it so I guess that’s something.
And like Hobo, the horse that is both her father’s and Annie’s mainstay even after polio threatens to destroy their entire family.Both Annie and Hobo are survivors.
It should not be a surprise, then, that when the fate of all mustangs in Nevada reaches a perilous crisis, it is Annie Bronn who steps in and speaks on behalf of America’s living legends.Mustang, Wild Spirit of the West chronicles both the life of Annie Bronn (not just her childhood) and that of her fight to save the mustangs of the American frontier.
I appreciated the genuine description of Annie’s growing-up years in the west and the author’s honest and forthright depiction of the threat to the mustangs.
Okay, new favorite author and book.
I loved this.
The plot, the characters, and just EVERYTHING!
This book is basically a girl names Annie.
It also had her childhood and a bit of love.
Gotta have it.Why did I love this book?
Well, I rarely ever cry in books.
But, this book, made a couple of tears fall down throughout this book.
Happy tears, and sad tears.
Mostly sad tears though.
It has a beautiful and inspiring story.
(That is why I read it in a day)Please read this book!
It is so short and has a beautiful story!
This is one of Marguerite Henry's best books. It's an engrossing story about a strong, likable, determined girl--Annie Bronn--who battles childhood polio and grows up to lead the fight to save the West's mustang population from extinction. It's a quiet story, but it has moments of deep, intense emotion--love, pain, loneliness, heartbreak, joy. The writing is beautiful and the descriptions are, again, some of Henry's best. I wish this book were better-known--it's every bit as good as "Misty of Chincoteague" and it deserves to be read more widely.
I've always thought this was sort of an under-appreciated work of Henry's. I'm not sure if it was simply overshadowed by the popularity of the better-known Misty books because it is a more distressing story than most of her others, or if it's less popular for some other reason. Possibly I was biased because it was Western and I grew up in Colorado and Texas and could better identify with it than with the Chincoteague books. If you can find one of the older hardbacks with color illustrations, get it; they're beautiful. A hard-won but worthwhile read for horse-crazy girls.

One of my favorite books by her. Get it in hardcover if you can, because the color illustrations are breathtaking. "Wild Horse Annie" was a favorite heroine of mine in childhood, even though the story and its circumstances were old then. With the current overpopulation it's hard to believe Mustangs were once endangered, but the fact that many of them ultimately end up slaughtered has gone back to being true. The book is full of breathtaking (and occasionally heartbreaking) imagery of the wild horses. Fantastic period piece, and such a feel-good ending.
This is a Marguerite Henry book that I do not remember from my childhood, and a true horse story that I really know nothing about. This book tells the life story of Annie Bronn Johnston, who was pivotal in the creation of laws and bills protecting the wild mustang from roundup and slaughter, including the Wild and Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act of 1971. A very interesting story for anyone with an interest in the history of the wild American mustang.
The one I read most often in those days was "Mustang", though I really never understood the whole illness story because I had been taught nothing at all about polio.
My mother thought that booster shots were just "money makers for the doctors" so I had no vaccines till I was 11 or 12; they wouldn't let me go to church camp without them, so I had three or four different ones on the same day and felt like hell for a week thereafter.
Reading it again after--how many decades?--I understood the story of the main character's illness better this time around.
These days that, plus the repeated references to God, would turn off many adults who would thereby refuse to let kids read it.
As a teenager, I volunteered for the American Mustang and Burro Association and heard firsthand about the abuses to the very law that Henry portrays the establishment of in this book.
It's painful to remember that terrible abuses are still going on to this very day, but it's some comfort to recognize that there are more herds now than there were when the law was passed and that there are more crusaders out there protecting the wild horses.Anyway, it's a real tear-jerker of a novel, but if you've any interest in horses, it's an excellent read.
Mustang: Wild Spirit of the West by Marguerite Henry is a very empowering book.
Another big reason I liked it is because it had to do with horses and was important to the future of the United States.
Annie had so many people bring her down because she was just a woman and people didn’t think that her ideas were good or relevant.
I would recommend this book to people interested in a little touch of United States history.
People who read this book need to b semi-good readers though because it uses more of an old west sort of language.
This book is the reason I became interested in activism focused on America's wild horse and burro populations in elementary school. This book is very powerful especially if you grew up riding/around horses as I did. I am a life long contributor to ISPBM because of this book :)
An excellent story! Though I may not agree with all of Wild Horse Annie's thoughts about wild horses, she still had a wonderful story to tell.
This was one of my favorite books as a kid and I loved reading it with my 12 year old daughter. An inspiring story about fighting for what is right and never giving up.
In Mustang Wild Spirit of the West by Marguerite Henry, Annie Johnston loves horses.
The brief coming-of-age story that makes up the first third of the book is interesting and touching, but my heart races most during Annie’s her campaign to save the mustang.
In its very first sentence, Annie states, “If God has a plan for all of us, I like to think He coupled me with horses from the start.” Many other references are made to God throughout the book.
Whether you love animals, their history, or just a riveting story, Mustang Wild Spirit of the West is an exhilarating read.
While I was glad the mustangs can't be slaughtered off anymore, the BLM is a terrible system and is not at all worthy of managing wildlife.
Mustangs are wildlife, and as such, should be treated like any other species.
There shouldn't be an agency making wads and wads of cash by rounding up and selling mustangs, there should be a season where you can go catch one of your own, or have the BLM do it for a modest price...
Conservation administrations have become so bad that nobody knows half of what they do.
Therefore I have removed one star for promotion of conservation.
I didn’t get to read this book as a child (probably because I live and grew up in the UK), so for 24 hours, I steered away from my normal genre of reading material and picked up this horse tale.
Had I still been a child, I would have loved this book.
It is well written, full of charm and has a wonderful story.
In fact, it is so close to real life, I can’t believe it is fiction.
I would encourage any older children (and adults) to read this as it gives a good account of what life was like in the old West.
It could have been a paltry attempt to explain the history of mustang slaughtering, perhaps from some distant point of view, in context with Chincoteague; instead, Henry puts the reader right in the action, growing up with Annie and her family and watching her succeed.
I'm a political junkie, so I love hearing about legislation no matter the context, and that's what I'd like to see more of.
Even if Henry explains everything through Annie's eyes, there is still a lot to be desired, and I would have liked to see it from the legislators's views.
Owen's review (Age 9): An awesome book with lots of action and other cool stuff.
Mom's review: I first read this book 30 or so years ago when I was about Owen's age.
It is only on re-reading this book as an adult that I understood why; while this book is ostensibly about horses like Henry's other books, it is actually the biography of an amazingly brave woman, Annie Bronn Johnston, who took on an entire industry and the government to win some measure of protection for her beloved mustangs.
It's still not the elusive book I am searching so hard for, but that book must also be about Wild Horse Annie because the protagonist is put in a body cast and comes out with one side of her face higher than the other- but the one I'm looking for also features the rhyme 'Hickory Dickory Dock' in some prominent way, and there's an illustration of a grandfather clock.
Wild Horse Annie was a hero to me, still is.
Because of her work, if you want to buy an "excess" mustang, you can get a live one, instead of one ground up for dog food.
– Two day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world early 1900's - A children's autobiography of Wild Horse Annie.Written approximately?
– Ready to read more.
Ready to save the horses!Any issues the author (or a more recent publisher) should cover?
Yes - a few links to updated information on current wild horse (and other critter) preserves and rescue efforts.Short storyline: The story of Wild Horse Annie's life and her struggle to save the wild Mustangs without whom, she would never have been born.Notes for the reader: A few archaic words can cause confusion for some readers.
Mustang, Wild Spirit of the West is a little different than most of Marguerite Henry’s books. Rather than focus on a particular horse, it tells the story of a young woman, Annie Johnston. Annie has spent her life in Nevada, except for a time in the hospital in California to recover from polio. Her girlhood was surrounded by mustangs, as her father had a hauling business using the horses. She married a young man who worked for her father, and the two took over the family ranch.Read my full review here.
There are parts of the book that are difficult themes to discuss with your children, most notably the death of the little brother of the protagonist, Annie, and her bout with polio.
But the characters are admirable heroes - something your kids can aspire to be, as Annie finds a cause dear to her heart - the ruthless hunting of wild mustangs by airplane roundup.
Annie picks of the cause and does the right thing - even though she is just a regular person, she works hard to get others to back her cause and shows us that some things are worth fighting for in life, especially our own humanity!
I used this book in my Gender & Education class. Our assignment was to show how women were portrayed in popular culture. Knowing that the lead character in this story was modeled on a real woman added depth to my study. "Annie's" fight to bring about legislation protecting the wild mustangs is portrayed wonderfully in this book. My prof's comment on my paper was that "she could almost hear the sound of mustangs running" and that the story had brought tears to her eyes.
