https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1657001.A_Journey_Round_My_Skull
The book itself is a fascinating autobiographical account by a well-known member of Hungary's pre-WW II literati who discovers that he has a brain tumor.
There's an interesting passage on the reporting of his surgery in the Budapest newspapers, he is in Stockholm by this time, and the effect it has on a number of his friends and coworkers.
For him, a clinician who writes highly readable popular books about the brain and its functioning, Karinthy's penchant for "long digressions, philosophical and literary" and "a certain amount of fanciful contrivance and extravagance" are faults.
--In Journey, Karinthy makes a seemingly off-hand allusion to his first wife reading about the Spanish influenza epidemic in the newspaper.
This quick glimpse is all the more poignant on learning that his beloved wife died of said influenza.
--After all this poor man suffered in removing a brain tumor, what a tragedy to discover he died of unrelated stroke just two years later at the age of, what, 49?And now, the Journey...Karinthy is pitch-perfect in describing some rather arbitrary perceptions from such a unique perspective.
Bunun yanında her zaman kullanmakta imtina ettiğim "ilginç", "tuhaf" ve "değişik" gibi ifadeleri de bu otobiyografik roman için kullanmakta beis görmüyorum.
Çünkü romanı okurken "A öyle mi?" "Hiç böyle düşünmemiştim" "olamaz böyle bir şey" dediğim çok oldu.
Yani bir deli her zaman deli değildir.
Sayemde bilgi dağarcığınızı zenginleştirirken bizim yazarımızı Frici'nin (Frigyes aslında ama kendimize yakın bulduğumuz için biz Frici diyeceğiz romanın ahalisi gibi) de bilincinin yerinde olduğu anlar olduğunu hatırlatalım.
Ansiklopedik ilerliyoruz biraz ama yine de cevap vereyim: Bir eşgüdüm kusuru, yani hareketlerin amaca uygun olmayan bir şekilde cereyan etmesi.Tuhaflık biraz da yazarın vücuduyla daha ziyade beyniyle kurduğu ilişki ve bu sayede dış dünyayla nasıl bir ilişki kurduğu üzerinde kafa yormasıdır.
People interested in medicine and the history of medicine will enjoy this memoir by a middle-aged man who had a benign brain tumor removed in 1936.
Karinthy, a Hungarian writer and journalist, was a bit of a celebrity in his native country and it was thanks to his social connections that he was able to be operated on by one of the best brain surgeons in the world.
It makes for a somewhat jarring experience, but also helps the reader see just what he was going through.Certainly this isn't for the average reader, but those who like works by people like Oliver Sacks (who wrote the intro to this memoir) will enjoy A Journey Round My Skull.
The long and the short of his story is that Karinthy was suffering from a brain tumor and his world had been turned topsy turvy in all aspects...spells of giddiness, fainting fits, friends remarking that his handwriting had altered, and books going blank before his eyes.
Reading about his journey into what can never be described as madness, spells of giddiness, fainting fits, friends remarking that his handwriting had altered, and books going blank before his eyes describes everything that he can about the days leading up to, and after, his brain operation.
So... This one goes back to the bookshelf for a while. I hope to re-read it, or actually, read it in a bit.It's not bad. It's quite interesting actually.But this time it just didn't strike the right cord with me, so I abandoned it after 60-odd pages.
There is space for his fear and suffering in the book; but the following excepts typify how he chooses to present it: “It got on my nerves, too, that I kept walking with my feet turned in and that, as my sight was bad, I could not see to correct my step and was constantly going into the gutter or knocking against the wall.
And that I kept lurking shamefacedly in a corner or hiding for hours in a cold lavatory.”“When I put my questions I used medical terms, culled from my reading.
4 or 5 stars? I am not sure yet.This was a very powerful read. True to its title, it was a journey inside a skull and mind. Having lost a relative from brain cancer, I found this quite difficult to read at some points. Apart from that it was really interesting. The writing style was excellent.In the end I felt that I truly knew this person. I love it when a book has this effect on me. It makes a connection, a real bond.
This book is more like a friend to me than a book. I have cried and laughed. It has taught me much and served as an arm around my neck, as my own shipwrecked head searches around for a new beginning.
Такава книга не бях чела - автобиография, репортаж, есе, мемоари, роман - от всичко по малко... Как е успял да запише всички мисли, усещания и впечатления преди, по време на операцията на главата и след това, че и с чувство за хумор... Много интересен унгарски автор!
The book is a muddle of styles - flamboyant description; stripped-bare medical detail; camp gossip - but within that muddle lies the experience of a man struggling to make sense of himself as his consciousness and his physical body are altered.
It's fascinating - if a little macabre - to read Karinthy's detailed description of his own brain surgery, especially considering the liberties taken in 1936 that we'd be horrified about today (opening up someone's brain and then wheeling them through the hospital, twice, to be x-rayed and then operated on again, for example.
A Journey Round My Skull by distinguished Hungarian writer Frigyes Karinthy is an extraordinary non-fiction account of the author's diagnosis, treatment, and recovery from a brain tumor in 1936.
It is the story of a man who is trying to make sense of what is to him a new self and a new world.Some of the most powerful discussions in A Journey Round My Skull are Karinthy's stories of how medical professionals immediately saw "a case" rather than "a person" once they heard his diagnosis.
A thoroughly fascinating read.
"indifferent water"
(Although any encounter with one promises to be memorable, as it is a rather primitive-looking surgical instrument with a single disagreeable purpose: to bore a circular hole through one’s skull.) And if you don’t have a brain tumor (most of you, I hope), this book will give you an idea of what it might be like.
Most terrifying are the nightmares and visual hallucinations that merge with reality in ways that make an actual encounter with a trephine sound like a consolation.
The Hungarian writer Frigyes Karinthy tells the story of his brain tumour, from the first symptoms to the successful surgical operation that led to its removal.
The author reconstructs the events using his annotations from the period, enriching them with his humoristic style and the cheerfulness of someone who was able to survive such a terrible illness.
Wasn't everything else in the room rotating around the mirror?As the tale goes on, we learn about the atmosphere of Hungarian cafes of the period - mid 1930s - and the intellectual life that animated them.
In Karinthy's time, brain surgery was almost unheard of, you had to travel by train through Nazi Germany to reach the Swedish doctor who could perform such an operation, and you had to stumble upon the Hungarian doctors who even knew of such a thing as brain surgery and diagnose you with it.Karinthy describes this process, from the first strange noises he hears to the succesful operation, in great detail and in an entertaining way.
He describes it matter-of-factly, even entertaining, as a number of inevitable small steps for an ill man.
The roaring noise he heard over and over again turned out to be an auditory hallucination, and the writer’s calvary began.Even though he fainted on several occasions and his eyesight deteriorated severely, first neither he nor his doctors suspected serious illness.
But as his symptoms became more and more severe, he arrived at the conclusion that he must have brain tumor.
The self-diagnosis proved to be right (”I went from humorist to tumorist”, he recounted later), and he soon left for Stockholm to be operated by the most famous neurosurgeon of his times, Herbert Olivecrona.

very interesting first-hand perspective read from someone who survived early modern brain surgery.
karinthy's story traces his early symptoms through to the actual surgery.
his metaphors and descriptions of the hallucinations, pains and general experiences are enlightening and relevant.
he considers the scientific without getting away from the human.
it bogs a bit in the middle when he's finally worried some about the surgery, but otherwise the flow is good and the story + his thought processes are heady (sic) and engaging.major hat tip on the translation.
having read a few texts translated from magyar, it's clearly not the easiest language to convey into english.
A neat book--Karinthy was a Hungarian humorist/journalist/etc., so the book about his brain tumor and operation reads a little like James Thurber. A closer comparison might be Joseph Heller/Speed Vogel's "No Laughing Matter," but with fantasy sequences and creative descriptions, this is a much more interesting book (though I wouldn't call it funny--the humor is dated and James Thurber is better). The later chapters--when he gets a little less goofy and a little more scared--are actually better, particularly the chapter on the surgery itself. Not to be read at lunch.
Karinthy was a journalist/essayist, and this book does a good job of getting at the experience of what it's like to have a brain tumor, as well as the denial, misdiagnosis, fear, and lack of human concern that individuals with a serious illness face. The author is not a great stylist, and seems more intent on amusing himself than addressing his emotions directly; as such, this account is not compelling, but it's still worth a look.
Un documento molto interessante in cui viene raccontata dall'interno come una malattia così critica è stata scoperta e affrontata. L'Autore descrive con lucidità ma anche ironia come si è reso conto di essere malato, i suoi dubbi, le sue paure, i suoi stati d'animo.Non gli do il massimo dei voti solo perchè ogni tanto si concede alcune divagazioni filosofiche che mi sono sembrate superflue.
Ho trovato il libro molto interessante, forse anche perché scritto in altri tempi. La personalità dello scrittore, nonché protagonista, gioca indubbiamente un ruolo fondamentale nella storia oltre che nello stile narrativo; nessun altro avrebbe potuto affrontare la malattia in quel modo.
This book is very interesting. It was a first hand account of a brain tumor surgery. It can be very wordy at some times. I would recommend this book to someone that doesn't know what book to read next.
racconto lucido, drammatico e ironico di una malattia e della conseguente operazione. qualche volo pindarico, ma un libro impressionante, letterario, intelligente. piccolo classico della letteratura ungherese anni 30. (grazie andrea!)
This book is great, the author writes about his experience living through (though eventually dying from) a brain tumor. Amazing descriptions of brain surgery while conscious. Read this one while my dog was dying of a brain tumor, sad, strange...
Karinthy, always. Too bad the world won't know his genious for the lack of translations and the impossible task of translating the full depth of his writing. He is Vonegut and Huxley and Defoe and so much more than all of them combined.
This book was good, in a medical way. Maybe it was the translation but the writing was at once dry and flowery. I could have skipped the first 3/4 of the book, as it did not add much. The operation itself, as told from the patient was fascinating. Apart from that it was a bit...bland.
On Crusoe's island (...) I see now that there is little point in crying out against injustice of man or the cruelty of fate, for, if my friend betrays and my brother in arms deceive me, a foreigner whom I never knew comes forward and saves my life.
