https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1155.Buffett
I recently re-read this Buffett biography (first published in 1995 and now re-issued with a new Afterword, dated January 2008) and then read Alice Schroeder's The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life.
His most important business relationships over the years 3.
Why no one else has achieved comparable results by following Buffett's advice Warren Buffett is among the most effective CEOs in recent business history (at least since the conclusion of World War II) and there is certainly a great deal of value to be learned from his performance as both a leader and a manager.
Roger Lowenstein, in a brilliant manner, brings out the smartness that lay behind this young Omaha kid called Warren Buffet that eventually made him the second richest man in the world.
Lowenstein, make note, has written this brilliant book without any interaction with Buffet himself who "would not collaborate in any way, nether attempt to interfere with the project".
A must read book (you will enjoy it more if you have ever traded in stocks yourselves) about a genius who comes probably just once a century...
The result is an intimate but outside look at what made Buffet into the investor and man he is today.Buffet is a mess of seeming contradictions, his obsession with accumulating money yet his refusal to spend any of it, his remarkable self confidence yet his apparent shyness, his analytical approach yet his refusal to use a computer or even a calculator to analyze investments ("if I don't understand the number in my head, then I won't understand it from a computer!"), his outspoken criticisms of modern CEO behavior yet his numerous CEO friendships, his hatred of all things wallstreet yet his continual close relationship to it.
What I learned from this book was that Buffett looked for two things in particular: companies that were well run by hardworking, dedicated people and then above all else, after careful study of financial documents—intrinsic value!
Buffett had had his eye on Mrs. B’s business for years.
In the end, Buffett leaves his office and strolls in to see the ninety-one-year-old lady.
The conversation goes something like this:‘Hey, d’you wanna sell this business?’‘Sure.’‘How much d’you want?’‘Sixty million!’‘Done.
I’ll have it drawn up by tomorrow,’ Buffett said.There are many nice little quotes throughout—or what we might call ‘Buffettisms’.
Having said this, Buffett dropped a bomb.
My dad bought me this book and I finally read it. In some ways this guy is the ultimate Mr Burns-like single-minded capitalist. But to be fair to him: he's consistently fought for his income bracket to have to pay much higher taxes, repeatedly attacked Bush's tax cuts for the rich, and finally commited to giving away almost all of his money to the Gates foundation. In some ways I think he is quintessentially American, in the same sense that Citizen Kane is the quintessential American movie.
I've been following the markets for the better part of 25 years, and over the years I've come across many books, articles, and profiles of Warren Buffett; seen him interviewed countless times on CNBC, even watched a documentary about him on Danish television last week, so I approached Buffett with reasonably low expectations - how much more was there to learn?
Lowenstein does a great job getting to the root of Buffett's unique approach to investing - his almost monomaniacal obsession with studying companies - and the detrimental impact this pursuit has had on his family.
The book is a bit dated, despite an epilogue added in 2008, as Buffett is difficult to keep up with - now into his eighties, the man who hates change, is still making headlines.
Many of the details of his story are similar and dealt with in the same chronological order.
Even though the Snowball gives a lot more personal almost intimate details about WB's life, there are some good different insights here too.
Choose the right heroes.But there was also a few other insights that I haven't seen detailed anywhere else so far.
The solomon case is much more detailed than in Alice Schroeders' book and I didn't t realise he respected and admired Gutfreund.
It's funny also to learn that Samuelson the nobel laureate on market efficiency theory, eventually bought a big stake in Berkshire just in case he was wrong lol.
Once or twice a year I come to read a biography of a great man and I just fall for them. This was definitely one of these occasions, I don't think it's possible to dislike this man. His thorough biography is full of things I like in one. Early attempts at what they eventually succeed in, business deals described in detail, character integrity, etc. I rarely go as far as naming someone my idol, but this past ten days Warren Buffet has become one.
A brilliant book chronicling the life of greatest investor, and one of my few personal idols, the world has seen!!Contains several pearls of gem about his personality, temperament and his genius that led to a follower-ship bordering on idolatry. From several stories covering his impeccable value-investing style and principles, to instances showing his less-than-perfect personal relationships, this book is a must-read for people wanting to know more about the Oracle of Omaha.
A great insight into the life and thinking of one of the greatest investors of all time.
I believe that life begins at the split second of conception and that no one, other than God, has the right to end that life, no matter what the reason.Buffet, as far as this book states, does not believe in God. He is very afraid of dying.
Since Buffett does not have that to look forward to, he has reason to believe that when you die you cease to be.
The book states that Buffett sees donating to Planned Parenthood as an investment in the well-being of the world.
The book states that Buffett sees this as a way to prevent over population of the world.
An epic work on Buffett and the difinitive book on Buffett's story.
I don't care what kind.' (She got him a wide-finned Cadillac.)" True, this was early in his career, but it is revealing of his attitude.I also did not expect a man like this to have a healthy marriage, but Lowenstein confirms, he does, although he seems slightly distant from his children.I particularly enjoyed the section on his first major acquisition where Buffett and the indomitable, 4 foot 10 inch Mrs. B, an immigrant who created the largest furniture business in Omaha from nothing, hammered out a sixty million dollar deal.
Warren Buffett might be the most enigmatic man of our time.
The few anecdotes we sometimes hear- he still lives in the same modest house in Omaha, he doesn't drink anything stronger than coca-cola, he drives himself around in a very basic Lincoln- only pique our curiosity more.Roger Lowenstein is well known for writing extremely engaging and thoroughly understandable books about business subjects (such as When Genius Failed).
Mr. Lowenstein- how about a sequel???Add one star to my rating if you generally enjoy business books and subtract one if you don't.
I wish I could give this 3.5 stars.The first major biography of Warren Buffett.
Written without active support by Buffett (he also didn't discourage anyone from working with Lowenstein).
I felt Lowenstein's writing in When Genius Failed, the account of the failure of Long Term Capital Management, was stronger.
In contrast to Snowball by Alice Schroeder, this book focused more on Buffett as the investor and major owner of Berkshire Hathaway.
Too bad, since Munger had a significant role in the evolution of Buffett's thinking from pure Graham to a blend of Graham/Fisher/Munger/Buffett.
Definitely has more of a tilt of Buffett as an "American capitalist" than Buffett as a person.
1.來自葛拉漢的投資哲學：別指望能賣個好價錢。有個具吸引力的買進價格，就算賣出價格普通也可以帶來很好的績效買進有價值的標的、內含保守主義的安全邊際原則，以及在每天市場價格變化下抱持超然的態度=>只有買在具足夠的安全邊際的價格，面對下跌才能有泰然的態度。2.思考方式：蒙格引用卡爾.亞可比的話：反過來想，一定要反過來想。=>反過來想才能避免落入各式各樣的心理陷阱。3.公司經營：巴菲特堅持提醒經營華盛頓郵報的葛蘭姆家族：公司規模並不是目標，股東權益報酬率才是目標。=>只為了擴大公司規模的投資，不見得對股東有益。4.貪婪VS恐懼：購買股票的多數人關心的不是因為一項投資真正有價值，所以買進「持有」，而是在大眾心理因素的影響下、三個月或一年內市場所評估的價值。福特基金會總裁於1967年投機熱潮時所說：我們有個初步印象是，相較於輕率或過度承擔風險，長期的謹慎帶給我們學院和大學的代價更高。每次空頭市場時，基金經理人會等待直到前景明朗才會進場。但未來從來就不會明朗，為了一個令人高興的共識意見，你得在股票市場上付出非常高的代價，不確定性確實是價值投資家長期的朋友。5.蒙格認為巴菲特的方法絕對能學習，然而「請別誤會，我不認為數萬人可以做得跟他一樣好，但比起用別的方法，數十萬人可以做得相當好，甚至好上許多，不過這件事存在雙重性。」雙重性的一部分是人們常把「簡單」和「容易」混為一談。巴菲特的方法論明確易懂，也就是「簡單」的意思，但簡單並不代表容易執行。衡量可口可樂這樣的公司需要多年經驗累積而成的智慧，但還是有強烈的主觀因素。波克夏有位股東有一次抱怨再也沒有像可口可樂這樣的可許經營公司了，蒙格言辭犀利地訓斥他，「為何事情就得那麼容易，如果來個兩、三次，就能讓你的家人這輩子不愁吃穿?」=>誤以為原則簡單的價值投資容易執行，絕對是模仿巴菲特的投資方法時，最容易犯的錯。
I previously knew many small details about Warren Buffett and had a vague sense of his personality and investment strategies.
From the first chapter, this book was captivating as it details key events throughout Buffett's entire life.
Buffett's determination from a very young age to some day (soon) be very rich as well as his innate ability to comprehend and retain numbers meant that he was able to do just that.
I hear this is not the best book to learn about his life thus far, but it was a very enjoyable one.
Not a terribly exciting book. Warren Buffett's pecularities (drinks coke, lives in Omaha, invests "permanantly") makes him a curious phenom but not an exciting subject matter. And by the time you get to 40th sentence in the likes of "in 10 year period, XYZ stock grow by astonishing 2000%) you are definitely not astonished. And no, there are no stock tips in here that you don't know already.
very interesting.
Excellent biography about the man himself. Very insightful on how Warren thinks, all in all a great story.
The best Buffett book, by far!
Enjoyed every minute of the book
Menarik nih bukunya untuk membaca kehidupan sang maestro dalam dunia investasi. Seorang milyader yang hidup dengan sederhana...
Warren Buffett is incredibly interesting. It is great to read about him.
He also worked for several newspaper companies delivering and collecting subscrption fees, and by the age of 14, he bought 40 acres of land for $1,200.At Columbia Business school, Buffett learnt a lot from his economist professor and later his mentor Benjamin Graham.
The theories of Buffett's professor, Graham, helped him to successfully invest the raised money and gain him profits.
All in all, Buffett had a very humble and tough childhood, and his hard work has led him to be successful, along with his professor and mentor Graham who tuaght Buffett valuable lessons on how to be smart when investing.
The history of finance is replete with the corpses of investors who tried to beat the market too consistently and by too much (keep an eye out for Salomon Brothers executive John Meriwether, whose spectacularly doomed hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management would be the subject of Lowenstein's next book, When Genius Failed), and yet despite a recent spate of poor performance, Buffett has been beating the market regularly for 63 years, longer than a majority of investors have been alive.
As an employee just going over five years at a company in the Berkshire Hathaway portfolio, I was interested to see this come across my Audible feed and picked it up.
I've noticed several interesting things in my tenure with my employer: that employee retention is ridiculously long, even the information technology staff has MOSTLY been there five, ten, or more years.
That Berkshire Hathaway seems to keep its hands completely off the wheels of our organization.
Acquisitions during that time include BNSF, Oriental Trading, Duracell, and other concerns as well as continued investments in other businesses.
Lowenstein provides a nice mix of personal and business details of Buffett’s life and career.
I’m a professional Financial Advisor and I enjoyed seeing how Buffett’s investment approach developed and transformed over time - some principals staying the same and some aspects evolving.
The personal interactions with other business people and the way he approaches analysis of securities was interesting and applies to much of what I do all day long for my clients.
It was fascinating to see the concepts I’ve studied and used be deployed in his fashion.This book was my first insight into his family life and friendships.
I’ve enjoyed sharing things that I learned in this book.
Lần đầu tiên tiếp cận một lượng thông tin đầy đủ về cuộc đời, sự nghiệp và triết lý của Warren, một nhà tư bản cổ điển theo phong cách Adam Smith.
Hiếm có nhà đầu tư nào có được sự chính xác gần như tuyệt đối trong hầu hết các quyết định đầu tư như Warren.
Triết lý của Graham là phân tích kỹ càng công việc kinh doanh của mỗi doanh nghiệp để tìm ra giá trị thực sự của nó và chỉ cân nhắc mua khi giá cổ phiếu nằm trong biên độ đủ an toàn.

