https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1255339.The_Sons_of_the_Sheik
After reading E M Hull's The Sheik which was a fantastic,enthralling,romantic classic captor/captive love story,I wanted to find out more of what happened to Ahmed and Diana and the sons they had.
This book would have probably gotten a 4-5 star if it had been the original,which I plan again to hunt down (more carefully) this time, but for now I end it here..Diana,Ahmed,and Sons and further adventures will have to wait.
This book came to me the same way as The Sheik, from my Mom's collection. Both are quite old and the covers worn. Sons of the Sheik isn't as dynamic as The Sheik possibly because it involves both sons, each completely different and conflicted. I really loved The Sheik and wasn't totally disappointed by the Sons of the Sheik but the first one will always be the best.Sultry
Who actually names their kid Caryll? I love how one kid; Ahmed (obviously named after his Baba, very original) and then the other is Caryll. What kind of terrible way to spell that name. WTF.
Ahmed era déspota porque el equipaje que arrastraba; el Boy no es más que un niño malcriado que cree que todo le corresponde por derecho de nacimiento y me gustó que el padre lo pusiera en su lugar y no le perdone que cometa sus mismos errores.
También creo que faltó profundizar la historia del hermano gemelo del Boy, Carryll, criado en Inglaterra con el abuelo conde, lejos de toda su "herencia" arabe y acumulando resentimiento contra sus padres.
Y definitivamente no me gustó que después de sufrir secretamente por años por el amor no correspondido de Diana, Raoul terminara como terminó y sin poder siquiera conocer a su hija.
Enjoyed it very much . Written almost 100 years ago . Some things are not politically correct for today but a wild ride through the desert sands of long ago !
OK, I buy Photoplay editions, like the one shown, for the marvelous dust jackets and the black-and-white photo inserts, not necessarily the overwrought purple prose.
And that's just the dust jacket copy ("thobbing with passion") and photo captions.
Rudolph Valentino played the Sheik in the first movie and the son of the Sheik in the sequel -- and this book has some lovely shots of him.
My favorite caption has him "glooming" over the perfidious French girl...
These are some of the earliest "media tie-in" books with photos from the silent movies.
For some silents, the Photoplay can be the only record of the film.
I almost want to grab the original "The sons of the Sheik" by E.M. Hull to read, because this storyline was actually kind of fun.As always with the lovely Barbara Cartland, the story is pure, clean romance. An easy, light read for the beach or pool, and no worrying about little eyes seeing something in print that would shock them!
Not quite as good as the original. A little to much sensationalism. It is however, always fun to read the early works before the plots become trite and overused.
