https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15673.Wayside_School_Gets_A_Little_Stranger
fulfilling my vow to read all the sequels i never knew existed to books i loved when i was little.
Dad: Eleanor (the other kids will probably be here in a minute), did I tell you that this one was my favorite of the 3 Wayside books?Eleanor: Yeah...
Mine too.D: I liked the play on words with the title of the book.E: I didn't realize it was a play on words.D: Think about it.
Did you know that was the same thing Eleanor said before you came into the room?G: *rising in pitch* Noooooo...D: As a kid, I always wanted the power that Miss Nogard had, and I didn't even know about Professor Xavier.
the same power Miss Nogard had.E: Dad. Why would you want that?
I remember getting my copy of Wayside School Gets a Little Stranger from the Scholastic Book Club and getting really excited because the cover glowed in the dark!
In this book, we get to learn more about Louis the Yard Teacher such as how his mean teacher tormented him and he even gets a little love story.
A cute scene is when the kids are giving Louis advice about how to win a women over like telling her she’s got eyes like the moon or bringing her candy and flowers.
And if you don’t like it, you can “rub a monkey’s tummy with your head!”
Weird, illogical, goofy and crazy, Wayside School Gets a Little Stranger is  hilarious .
It's just the kind of book which tickles my funny bone because it's just so, well,  strange .Your school consists of 30 stories, each story with only one classroom, and the elevator only goes up but never down.
And you know what, amidst the goofiness of it all, there was something sweet and something profound inserted in between the pages, which is the kind of thing I admire in Louis Sachar's works.Its humour isn't for everybody (one of my friends couldn't appreciate what made this book so funny to me), but I don't really care.
Wayside School gets a Little Stranger Wayside school is a thirty floor building with no nineteenth floor. Mrs. Zarves teaches on the nineteenth floor .There is no Mrs. Zarves. Understand? Good.Wayside School gets a Little Stranger is a creative and comical book about a teacher named Ms.Jewls and her class. In the story, Ms.Jewls gets pregnant, and the class gets many substitutes, along with many adventures.I recommend this book to ages 6-11, though adults will find it just as comical. This book contains confusing language and a childish vocabulary.
Some of the children would come by and look at the sign that was hang up on the door then they would just walk away from it.
Louis the janitor would watch the kids come and go then he would get back to work on the school.
So then Louis the janitor took the sign off the school doors where the kids could come back to school.
Mrs.Jewls come over the internet com and said welcome back students and teachers.
Everyone just stared at there teacher then she said to the children that she wants everyone to make a pair socks for someone or themselves.

I love this book, but I find myself missing Mrs. Jewls while reading it. Still, the chapter about pets is one of the funniest things ever, and it's always good to hear more about Louis. Not my favorite Wayside School book, but that's like saying it's not my favorite kind of candy. It's still delicious, even if I like the others better.
[2005 review.] Another book I loved from childhood but didn't remember much about. It's aged a bit younger than some of his other stuff -- Holes and There's a Boy in the Girl's Bathroom. It's so meta and postmodern -- he writes himself into the book as a character! And this is totally a gateway drug for surreal, silly literature.
I had originally planned on reading all three Wayside books as close together as possible, but that kind of petered out. I think that it might be because the last two were missing the nostalgia factor the first holds for me.I really like how clever these books are, like you kind of have to pay attention because sometime the setup is in one chapter, and the payoff is a few chapters later. And the chapter with the pets was pretty neat, naturally I had to read it a second time to make sense of it.
This book is amazing! Most of the time it made me laugh. It is not a long book it is just 168 pages, but only like 2 pages didn't make me laugh. So it is a pretty funny book. Even though it is only 168 pages you will still know their names because you cant just forget. I don't laugh at a lot of stuff, but this book made me laugh so hard that I almost peed in myself. Also, it really good illustrations.
I thought the book was great and it had a lot of detail and it explained every movement a character made and I cant wait to read the next edition.It was also cool because the school was really high and it was hard for the students to go downstairs and play.
Truely amazing. The second one is better than the first one, and this one is far better than the second one. I really loved it.Warning; Once you get your hands on this Wayside school series, you can't stop until you finish them all!
MOO!
خودش نه، ترجمه ش.
This book is so great. I really can't help but laughing whenever I read the chapter with all the pets in it.
Third time's the charm even when the charm has already charmed twice! Everything you knew before or thought you may know or didn't understand comes to a head. Trying to explain the plot or lack thereof in these books is like interpreting a Picasso and explaining its significance. Everyone will come out with a different interpretation and/or with a different meaning. With that in mind this entry still feels like a third installment of a larger story. It's best to come in to this world knowing nothing and being open to everything. This one is my favorite!
This book was so HILARIOUS. It is one of the funniest books that I have read.
funny and detals
Such a cute series fun of weird and wacky characters and happenings.
Max’s pick for family book.
I absolutely love this non-traditional novel to read aloud to my third grade class.
From cows filling the hallways, to substitute teachers this book has a laugh for everyone.
This is one of the few stories I read aloud during the school year that my students are fully and utterly engaged in the story.
This book is also a great read aloud to promote questioning.
My students ALWAYS have 100 questions when we read this book.
I highly recommend this book to any 3-6 teacher and my class of 24 gives it a big THUMBS UP!
This book is hilarious! It's super funny and a little dorky (in a good way!) . I also am a person who likes to laugh, so I love it!
This book is a fun book and short book to read. Itś entertaining.It is easy for a 5 and six grader but, challenging for a 3rd grader.I like the funny names the characters have,like Dr Pickle.It is a very good book. Louis Sachar is an amazing author. I highly recommend this book if you like humorus books.
I love Wayside School!! Could these books be any wittier?? I especially love the non-existent Miss Zarves and non-existent 19th-floor and the mysterious men in suits who stop her from leaving; what an existential conundrum. The plot of this one is great, as Mrs. Jewls takes a leave of absence due to pregnancy and the kiddos encounter all kinds of substitute teachers, to much comic effect. A classic series.
Not quite as strong as the first two, but it has some great moments.
But again, the book has some great moments.
The chapter, "A Story with a Disappointing Ending" might be my favorite of the whole series.
That chapter is like one long joke, and the payoff (or lack thereof) at the end just killed me.
Some great creativity in there.So read it if you're a fan of the series or if you like Louis Sachar (i.e. if you like awesome things).
If you've read the previous two Wayside School books, you know this school is a mess: weird things plague it all the time, and its classrooms are built on top of each other instead of side by side.
This one is indeed zanier than the previous ones, believe it or not; the off-the-wall teachers and quirky students are their usual selves, but more completely impossible things happen in this one than ever before (like, say, children getting their voices stolen because they're stuck up someone's nose).
And, as always, Sachar actually knows what kids will like and doesn't pull the usual punches dancing and singing for laughs, so to speak.
I love the Wayside book stories as a child.
This was a really awesome book.
Soon after, Mrs. Jewels has to go on maternity leave.
The students have a number of horrible substitute teachers to deal with like Mrs. Gorff's crazy son, and Miss.Nogard.
Miss Nogard is a teacher who had her heart broken after her boyfriend finds out she has an ear on her forehead.
This causes her to be mean without others knowing that she is in face a very mean person until she meets Mavis, Mrs. Jewels baby who has nothing but loving, pure thoughts.
Louis Sachar's writing is just wonderful. These books are so much fun, they are super fast and extremely funny as well. This had a really nice ending, everything tied up nicely and Wayside School got some lovely additions to it. What I love about these books is that even though every chapter is about a different story, it is still very coherent and acts as a whole. The characters are so much fun, the supernatural effects are very well made and the book is just great.
Why do the kids on the cover look like the they're from the Magic School Bus?This has always been my favorite Wayside book. Instead of being 30 independent stories, all the stories are more or less connected. Because this is the third book in the series, the characters are so much more fleshed out, especially Louis. If you like the other Wayside books, you'll definitely like this one.
