https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299596.Das_Boot
Excellent true account of a young German sailor's time serving on a submarine during WWII.I can't praise this book enough. This was made into a miniseries which was one of the most hypnotic and thrilling I've ever seen. There was one lighthearted scene where the young sailors lustily sing their favorite song "It's a Long Way to Tipperary" that I found hilarious.
Probably the most existential and realistic book of submarine warfare from the point of view of a German crew that I have read.
(Apparently fresh water is much easier.) Now let’s assume that the specific gravity changes by 1/1000, a small enough amount.
You will never think of submarines in quite the same way after you have read the description of their sub in the midst of a storm having to run on the surface for speed (if you could call it that) and to charge the batteries, the boat plunging and heaving through the waves.
No, thanks.Because of that viewing experience at what was obviously a very impressionable age, I've been curious to see the movie again (which will require some liquor to give me nerve) or to at least read the book.
From what I remember the movie stayed pretty true to the novel, but the book loses out on all the German hotness because no one even speaks German really, outside of a few occasions.
I will totally read it and let you know if I agree.
That was one of my experiences while reading the book and it really made me feel like I was on a submarine.
I'd give this book 5 stars except it was about 200 pages longer than necessary. After awhile I heard enough of all the colors of the sky and sea. However after learning that the author is an accomplished artist, his obsession with color made more sense.I recommend The Cruel Sea as a companion read to Das Boot. The Cruel Sea shows the war from the other side - the English sailors trying to track down and kill the U-boats. I'd also suggest Shadow Divers about the search for the identity of a mystery U-boat sunk off the coast of Massachusetts.
I remember seeing the movie years ago. While I didn’t really enjoy it probably because of the subtitles; subtitles are not a good reason for young people to watch a movie. Definitely a case of the book being better than the movie. I couldn’t imagine living on a submarine during wartime cooped up with the same faces day in day out until the end of the voyage if the boat even survives. What is handy is the cast of characters listed at the beginning. There are a lot of people to remember. Otherwise it’s easy to get lost
This book is about 550 pages long, and for the first 300 pages I was wondering what it was all about and why I was wasting my time.
The third hundred pages described a never-ending storm (spoiler: it does end).
After that, though, the book is great.
The ending was fittingly unhappy for a war book - I felt no joy or relief, only a general sense of "what a fucked up situation." Perhaps the book could have left the first 300 pages out, or perhaps the last half was only so good because of the incredibly long build up.
I have a hard time reading novels from the German perspective on WWII.
They usually all contain the same type of apologist rhetoric ("Nazi's suck!
It's generally expressed in the first few pages so the reader knows that *these boys* are ok.
It's grating every time I read it.
It humanized ze Germans and it was full of sturm and drang.
However, I was never really able to weep for the boys on the boat throughout their trials and tribulations.
Worth a read though if you're in the mood for something WWII-y and North Atlantic-y.
Submarine war novels are not usually my kind of thing and this one was possibly a couple of hundred pages too long, but ‘Das Boot’ was worth reading. It is always so easy to understand the horror of war on an intellectual level, but ‘Das Boot’ takes you further and engages you in the terror of war. You actually get to feel the claustrophobia, the desperation, and the feeling of helplessness under fire. I never watched the movie, but may do now.
The individual is caught in the middle, merely doing his best for what he believes is right.Das Boot follows one German submarine on one patrol in the north Atlantic during WWII when the war is beginning to turn.
Lothar-Günther Buchheim spent time on German subs during the war as a correspondent, and this fictionalized testament is a very valuable document of life "on the other side." In the U.S. most WWII accounts paint German fighting men with a very broad brush.
Wolfgang Peterson made two films, Das Boot and Stalingrad; the other stuff is cockle-shit.
Stalingrad is one of the most brutal films I’ve ever seen.
Das Boot is your best bet at a cinematic experience of claustrophobia.
I’ve seen(/own) both versions of Das Boot currently marketed, “The Directors’s Cut” which clocks in at 209 minutes and “The Original Uncut Version” (293 minutes).
Why did von Trier’s Riget turn into tripe in King’s hands and why did Peterson’s films turn into Harrison Ford-grade ass cheese when he shows up in Holywood?
Das Grauen des Krieges auf hoher See wird selbst in einem U-Boot deutlich – den Männern steht es im späteren Verlauf des Romans ins Gesicht geschrieben: die Angst und das Bangen um das eigene Leben, um das man in der erschwerenden Enge des Bootes kämpfen muss.Am Anfang ist es schwer, in den Roman hinein zu kommen: es stürzen mindestens ein Dutzend komplizierter Wörter auf einen herein, die man als Laie noch nie zuvor gehört hat – doch spätestens nach den ersten 200/300 Seiten, ist es nicht mehr so schwierig, Buchheims Erzählung zu folgen.Man gewöhnt sich an den militärisch angehauchten Schreibstil des Kriegsberichterstatters.Zum Glück jedoch gibt es hinten im Anhang einen Glossar, der einige schwierige Wörter und Abkürzungen beschreibt.
Jelikoz pan novinar velmi rad popisuje co se kolem nej deje a jak co vypada, zbytecne natahuje knihu asi o 20% - u popisu barev more a oblohy jsem si pripadal, jako nedavno na jedny svatbe, kdy se buchty dohadovaly, jestli jsou saty bile, vanilkove, ivory nebo svetle zlute.
To se ji moc nedari, protoze nad ni plave spoustu lodi, ktery po ni hazou dolu bomby.
Protoze se posadka sklada z 5 oficiru a zbytek jsou mlady joudove z Hitlerjugend, tak je krasne popisovany, jak se vsichni pochcavaj a posiraj, kdyz na ne z hladiny padaj bomby.
Krom toho jsou skvely pribehy, ktery si posadka mezi sebou vypravi.
No triumphant American army come to sweep up the European debris of 1944, flexing muscles that haven’t know suffering.The film gives a sensual experience of war.
We begin with monotonous boredom, captured with endless descriptions of the different shades of gray and wet that the sea gives the few who are allowed onto the small deck.
The souls of these motherfuckers obey.The Boot is the protagonist of the book.
It is rational and beautiful.Buchheim’s Boot is his post-war therapy.
And his painter’s eyes come up with hundreds of colorful memories to name the blues and grays of the ocean.This will to delusion is Buchheim’s survival strategy.
Buchheim has an illustrative style which in other writers can be very tiresome - but somehow in this book it serves to highlight the extreme psychological stress of life on a WW2 U-boat - the claustrophobia, helplessness under fire, the total reliance on the split-second judgements of one man, the 30 year old commander they call 'The Old Man'.
The real shock of this book is that it is first hand documentary written by one of the few that got away.
For some reason I've become fascinated with submarine warfare during WWII.
I've also recently read a few non-fiction of accounts of submarines in action.
I've seen it several times and think it's one of the greatest war movies ever made.
So I was curious to try the book, upon which the movie was made.
There are several scenes of depth charge attacks that gave me chills.
There is one scene not in the film which had my heart beating faster.
For some the myriad descriptions about how submarines work and information about currents and navigation may be a bit much.
Sehr starkes und intensives Hörspiel mit Herbert Grönemeyer als Erzähler.
This is an incredible book and very well written and easy to read. The movie version follows the book fairly closely although there is much more detail in the book. The incredible conditions that these German sailors faced is hard to believe. The stark changes from very boring to sailing through a two week storm and then experiencing intense and prolonged depth charge attacks is just incredible. The book also reminds me in some ways of All Quite on the Western Front. Although the nature of the experience of a submariner compared to a WWI infantryman is quite different.
El relato describe con gran vividez las emociones de los tripulantes ante los distintos sucesos y peligros por los que atraviesan y, desde mi propia experiencia, refleja con mucho acierto la vida a bordo de un buque de guerra.Después de leer el libro decidí ver la pelicula que se filmó a partir de esta novela: Das Boot (El submarino) http://www.filmaffinity.com/es/film24..., que aunque también está muy bien, no llega al nivel de detalle e interés del libro.Bastante de lo descrito en este relato encaja de forma complementaria con lo narrado por Luis de la Sierra en su interesantísima obra La Guerra Naval En El Atlantico, centrado éste en la perspectiva aliada y que tambien ha sido una de mis lecturas recientes y recomendables.
The author did a fantastic job of giving a detailed blow-by-blow of daily life under a variety of circumstances from attack to counterattack, from calm seas to storms, from departure to arrival.
Here was my problem: it was so incredibly detailed that it became monotonous.
The sheer length of each scene was torturous; I enjoy reading well-detailed and descriptive prose, but this was a whole new level.
To the author's credit, it made me feel truly immersed in the unpleasantness of such a life.
However, the scenes dragged on interminably to the point that it made me want to stop reading and give up.
Потрясающая книга, детально описавающая жизнь немецких подвоников во время второй мировой войны.
При этом в качестве основных противников гитлеровских войск выступают американцы (Томми), что позволят смотреть на их противостояние с нейтральной стороны.Книга раскрывает практически все сценарии жизни подводной лодки: проводы с военной базы, путь до места назначения, маневрирование в поисках целей, аттака и т.д.
В каждом из них передаются не только технические особенности управления лодкой, но и психологическое состояние личного состава.
При этом ни одна сцена кроме подводных не обходится без красочного описания водных и небесных ландшафтов.По книге снят одноименный фильм 1985 года, судя по отзывам он нисколько не хуже книги.
I have seen the movie in multiple versions several times. That is why I wanted to read the original book, be it a translation. There was definitely information in the book that was not included in the movie. The author succeeded in depicting the tedium of this submarine life. That is interesting, but difficult to slug through. A hurricane seemed to last three weeks. Depth charge attacks seemingly endless. I was glad I read the book, but contrary to the usual circumstance I felt the movie superior.
This book was released forty years ago and remains one of the best World War II novels written from a German perspective.
It documents well the horror of war at sea, the loss of life and the cat and mouse game of the hunter and hunted in their struggle for life.
It is written sensitively about the many very young men that went to sea and how arbitrary it became as to whether they survived or died.
This was a very well regarded and successful movie and a book that I had hoped to read ever since it's publication.
The claustrophobia, the panic, the boredom and ennui—join the Reichsmarine, see the world! It's a gripping read (although the paragraphs are choppy which makes the flow of reading more difficult). The only reason I might advise against someone reading it is the verisimilitude of sailorspeak: there are some pretty salty passages in there, so be thou warned.
I remember watching the movie a couple of years ago and trust me it deserved that Oscar, rather than only being nominated. The book in every page makes you bite your nails & thanks to this book, I won't be using the nail sharpener for weeks to come. This one is a piece of genius, some truly terrific work!
An amazing and at times terrifying story of war at sea. Completely engaging. Should be read alongside the Cruel Sea as they show the two sides to the story of the Battle of the Atlantic. It gives a good understanding that war is just as terrifying for the hunter as it is for the prey.
Despite the fact that pretty much nothing happens for 160 pages, this is a very readable book. The English translation freaks a bit here and there, but by the end you feel as if you've been through it all with these characters you slowly grow to care about.
An epic that you should all read at least once! Some parts are a little long in the tooth but others are completely riveting!Definitely recommended for anyone interested in warfare, WW2, or U Boats.A very graphic depiction of life onboard for months at a time with an all but truthful end.
Beyond compare. One of the few books that I have ever found to be truly unputdownable.
If it didn't, and that Buchheim made it all up "based on his personal experiences in the war", then this book should be critiqued on a different scale altogether -- but more on that later.
Every time a depth charge explodes, your heart skips right alongside the crew.
Having knowledge of these may help to explain certain parts of the book, such as when The Old Man is figuring out how to make a heavily damaged submarine float back to the surface of the Mediterranean (the most intense part of the book).
The full-length movie version is one of the most terrifying war movies I've seen (though this may be just because drowning holds a peculiar terror for me).
The book, in contrast, is much more psychological, spending a good deal of time in Buchheim's inner world.
The fragmentary jumble of thoughts here, which gets more confused when the boat is stuck on the bottom in the Gibraltar area, holds its own terror.
Buchheim reportedly did not care for the movie, and after reading the book I can see why not; a lot got lost on the way to the screen.
