https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460711.The_History_of_Surrealism
As the book suggests, the surrealists were trying to achieve and manipulate the very moment where desire becomes imagination, often using found objects, but the sense of emptiness really just ends up producing a sense of frustration.
Dali explicitly pursued "simulations of paranoid states." The kind of paranoia that afflicts mountain people.
In a cultural wasteland of nothing but found objects stripped of instrinsic meaning and constant, unexpressed desire, is not dictatorial paranoia the next step?
Yet surrealism was still inspirational enough to have inspired the first half of this book, which should be torn from the second half, which consists entirely of surrealism manifestos, and left as a warning/ found object for people with nothing better to do in the mountains.
Nadeau's now-classic study champions the often repressed reminder that Surrealism was neither an aesthetic school nor a style of art but a political approach to culture and society.
Written in a period when Surrealism still seemed touchable, if dead, but not "failed," Nadeau's study offers much to contextualize and also, strangely, humanize the many figures whose work and words constitute the body of the European Surrealist tradition.
Highly recommended for anyone interested in Surrealism OR the political exchange of art and society in European radical traditions.
Very comprehensive history of the movement largely based on the group's documents: manifestos, edicts, articles, and speeches. Unfortunately that means that the individual participants remain sketchy (Breton coming across the clearest) and there's next to nothing about the art. Still, an impressive feat, particularly since it came out in France in 1945, not the most amenable era for scholarly research.
Pues es una buena historiografía, la traducción parece ser buena y en general contextualiza muy bien el movimiento; lo más valioso que tiene son las citas al pie porque resultan ser una gran bibliografía a futuro para profundizar.
The best historical introduction in the movement of Surrealism.
Gives special emphasis to the outstanding surrealists, without neglecting the contribution of the less known among them.
The surrealistic revolution was not, as it is well known, only a revolution in Art, but in life as well.
Art and life, connected, each influences the other.
Amour fout, objective chance, black humor, ecriture automatique are main aspects and dynamics of the movement.
The desire, according to Nadeau, is finaly the most powerful motive in life; the objectification of which must be our main task.
very difficult to read---you'd have to know a lot about surrealism before you ever read this to recognize people mentioned in it. Didn't finish.
