https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16131.The_House_of_Morgan
While I am not one who is well-versed in finances or who can attest to being the greatest handler of money, I feel any reader with patience and a passion to learn will devour this and see just how powerful and corrupt money can be, no matter the holder.Chernow first examines the House of Morgan by exploring the lives and ventures of Junius and Pierpont Morgan in what he coins as the Baronial Age. This father and son duo sought to forge greatness in an era when the American aristocracy was finding its feet.
He is the sort of historian who loads his books with so much information that it's impossible not to walk away more knowledgeable on the subject matter.
House of Morgan doesn't just give the chronological history of Junius, JP, and JP Jr, in their journey of establishing financial dominance; it also captures their humanity--their strengths, weaknesses, merits, and faults.
(Believe me there were a lot of faults).
So much of what we take for granted today was innovative during the timeline of this book--if not a product of the Morgans then it was that of their contemporaries.
For me, the most valuable part of this book (besides the information on Pierpont) was the information on the other major partners that played a big roll during the wars, and Morgan's relationships with various 19th and 20th century figures (financial, cultural, political).
The book was worth the effort just to learn about these other Morgan men.Chernow writes primarily about banking families and American biographies:Chernow's Banking Dynasties:1.
The House of Morgan: An American Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Finance - ★★★★3.
I'll just list significant events, and some thoughts on these.As the govt developed internal resources, Washington had less need for the Morgan banks as diplomatic agents.After WWII, due to Glass Steagall (1933), JPMorgan was too small a bank to have much power -- it was too snobbish to take retail deposits, and was short of capital to lend, even though it had established client relationships.
Thus, corporates increasing access to money markets distintermediated the banks.In 1963, the Fed decided that Glass Steagall still allowed commercial banks to underwrite securities outside the US -- this meant the likes of JPMorgan could build i-bank operations outside the US (how ironic).
With this background, he sought to put together a comprehensive look at the changes taken place in modern American finance over the years, through the vehicle of the J.P. Morgan Company.Beginning with a fascinating look at 19th century economic expansion, it is clear that without bankers like J.P. Morgan, Americans (and Europeans) would not have enjoyed the successes reaped from the industrial age.
So government enacted laws like Glass-Steagal in an attempt to limit the power of financial giants like J.P. Morgan’s empire.It is one of the most interesting and well-written works of history that I have ever read.
I love Ron Chernow... But even I have to admit that unless you are truly interested in banking and the history of each little piece of the House of Morgan, you only have to read the first half of this book which covers the crucial period 1830-1950.
It is not a mere bank; it is an institution."I had heard of the House of Morgan and knew it was prestigious, but being on the west coast, and a person without wealth and no hopes of it, I didn't really know much more than that.
But I was also interested because the House of Morgan was a leader in financing the Allies in the first World War, and also in the reparations and reconstruction following it.The third section was filled with names I recognized, many of which I could readily put faces to.
"What is the difference," he proclaimed, "between the US Steel Corporation, as it was organized by Mr. Morgan, and a Department of Steel as it might be organized by the Government?" He drew a parallel Pierpont wouldn't admit to--that trusts, with their centralized production and distribution, were a form of private socialism.
After all, Pierpont, starting with his Railway associations of the late 1880s, espoused industrial cooperation instead of competition.
People who want to keep their economic power go to the government to protect it from the competition of the market.
Ron Chernow is one of the very best historians of our time.
Two-thirds the way through it, after having chronicled more than 180 years of the family and its multifarious banking manifestations, his presentation begins to show an attitude of “Geesh, let’s get this thing over with.” His paragraphs become formulaic.
Every new executive is introduced with the required “physiognomy begets personality” sentences, and then it’s off to examine his damage to the corporate reputation.Chernow is usually better than that.
Certainly the first 60 percent of it was, and certainly Hamilton> and Titan (a similar family biography of the Rockefellers) were--in their entirety.Chernow’s account peters out in 1988, just after the now-small Wall Street calamity of that day.
Multiple generations and iterations of a single family managed to set the tone of international banking for over a hundred years. Then a downfall into 80s "banking" practices erodes all that they once held dear. This book was published in 1990. One hopes for an updated version covering up to 2008 and beyond. A remarkable book on banking.
Better than a text book highly educational and interesting.
An exhausting 720 pages of text (followed by extensive notes, bibliography and index) covers all the houses of Morgan and the most significant Morgan men (Junius, Pierpont, and Jack) from even its pre-Morgan days, when George Peabody began the firm (before retiring he took on Junius Morgan) in the early 19th century, up to the 1987 crash.
Even up through the first few decades of the 20th century, women were not welcome as visible bank employees in assisting roles such as secretaries.
One interesting side story was Morgan employee Dwight Morrow, the father of Anne Morrow Lindbergh.
I picked this book after reading Alexander Hamilton by Chernow (the best biography I have ever read).
The book was still excellent, but slightly harder to follow from 1950-1990 when the bank cycled through several less memorable leaders and accompanying scandals.
Obviously the book would have been incomplete without this section (the casino age).
I've added three other famous Chernow books to my to do list, but I venture to guess I have already read the best two.
Whoa, this was not the longest book I've listened to, but it was the looongest book I've listened to. If you never thought banking was a dry topic before, this may make you think otherwise. And this is coming from the guy who enjoys this author. His book, Alexander Hamilton is one of my all-time favorites and I know I would have been extremely unlikely to have read/listened to it if I would have read/listened to this one first. So, I guess my takeaway is read Alexander Hamilton if you want to experience Chernow at his best.
This is a very long book that suffers from two problems.
First it is too long and drags with repetition toward the end.
And, two, it was written in 1989, which means it covers the exuberance of the 'new' Wall Street banking but misses the disaster of the dot com bubble and especially the the crash of 2007, which shows that his exuberance was totally misplaced.
The most hilarious part was the description of the London branch in the fifties and sixties.
They still used high stools and hand written ledgers well into the sixties!
Ron Chernow writes with such well thought out detail that it seems he never misses anything.“The House of Morgan” won a National Book Award and describes a powerful American family. It is a very detailed book, which is his style, that describes how banking became big in America and how the Morgan’s became more powerful than the Rothschild banking dynasty. If you ever read the great book “Creature from Jeckyll Island” and followed the author’s reasoning for not needing a Federal Reserve Bank then read this book and you might gain a better perspective of an opposing view.
A book this size needs a mission or a thesis. Unfortunately such a construct - if existing - escaped my attention with the result that it became a long, monotonous tale of two-dimensiomal characters and a flurry of institutions morphing in and out of the Morgan name. Especially the period after Pierpoint Morgan became a death-march. Net assessment: Boring, without insight and definitely not worth the time.
This book was about how banking went from gentleman bankers of the 1800's to the pillaging corporate pirates of today, that buy up companies and sell off their assets to make millions for themselves while putting thousands out of work.This book had a lot of really good date but could have been editing down to about half the size, as the average really will not be interested into the massive amount of details collected here.
The author continues the history of Morgan Stanley and the JPMorgan bank even after the actual Morgans have departed the story, and while it was still informative without Pierpont and Jack Morgan, I have to admit that it lost some of the zest that their personalities had given it.
The only other caveat I have regarding this book is that it was published in 1990, and the bank has obviously undergone a lot of changes since then, including its merger with Chase Bank.After finishing this book, I feel an urge to visit the Morgan Library (conveniently in my city NYC).
Listening to the Audible unabridged version. Chernow might be accused of hagiography -- at the very least, he is much too ready to take the word of his subjects for what motivated their actions. I have no doubt Pierpont, Jack, and the Morgan partners considered themselves enlightened benefactors of humanity. However, Chernow doesn't provide me a compelling reason to agree with them. For comparison, read the descriptions of same events by, say, Ferdinand Lundberg. One thing this book excels at, though, is identifying the players and their connections. Lots of interesting research could begin with this outline of events.
Intensely interesting at the beginning with a strong emphasis on individual personalities and unique world events. The Morgan’s are front and center of the narrative!Stayed strong for the first 2/3 of the book...up through about the 1950s. The Morgan’s are now important-ish to the narrative but definitely not central.After about the 1960s, the narrative changes more toward financial transactions with peripheral accounts of the Morgan’s and it began to disinterest me some. By the end, I was glad to have it over with it’s intense focus on the 1987 crash and sideline story of the Morgans.
Composite story of the Morgan family, who started a bank that became a household name. At 812 pages, this is a very detailed story with meticulous research into the backgrounds of the family and their associates. There is so many facts and people that the book becomes overwhelming at times. I was surprised at how global this bank was even centuries ago. It is an interesting perspective of the Morgan family and the banking firm it created.
A large tome as only Chernow could write, and actually his first. Here we have the story of the Morgan banking family through the late 19th century in the US and UK, starting JP's father, and ending with the various breakups and companies that became the off spring of this dynasty and the fade out of the family members by the 1960's. A wonderful history of one of the great early financial empires.
Overall, I thought it was a well written book and enjoyed it. However, at times, there was an obscene amount of information relayed that made it difficult to follow.
“House of Morgan” is the third Ron Chernow book I’ve read after “Hamilton” and Titan.” In it, Chernow uses the lineage of Junius Spencer Morgan, John Pierpont Morgan, and Jack Morgan—in conjunction with their famed bank, JP Morgan—to tell the history of the finance industry in the United States.
Chernow divides the history of banking into the following eras:(1)	Baronial Age – 1838-1913(2)	Diplomatic Age – 1913-1948(3)	Casino Age – 1948-1989 (publication)But the book feels more like two distinct parts—first the years with the Junius, J.P, and Jack Morgan running the who and part two when the bank split and followed the leadership of a wide variety of individuals.
I've always felt that I'm missing some fundamental facts about economics and finance ever since I was in high school reading the news or a history book.
Ron Chernow's The House of Morgan is the latest example of my somewhat Quixotic self-improvement efforts.
In other subjects too much exposition of basic concepts annoys me, but damn it, I needed hand-holding here.For most of the book I could ignore any lack of fundamental understanding and let the narrative propel me.
But this last section was close to 250 pages, over a third of the book.Upon finishing, I'm glad I read this.
Here is the extended review “Book Review: House of Morgans” https://medium.com/@Prakhar__Singh/bo...
I liked the book - it reads like an epic novel; Chernow writes so well that at times it almost seemed like I was reading fiction.
After WWII, the bank changed drastically - which mirrored the change in the financial and banking industries.
It was hard to keep all of the myriad events straight following WWII as Chernow covered so many different aspects that the bank was engaged in, and also interspersed large passages about its London offshoot, Morgan Grenfell.
This book won a National Book Award, and I won’t argue with that. It’s meticulously researched and rigorously detailed, hallmarks of a Chernow book. The problem for me is that the details were just stultifying. I couldn’t find anything fascinating, or even particularly interesting, about the history of Wall Street and its narrow-minded, patrician, sexist, anti-semitic Good Ole Boys that were responsible for its rise. The only reason these well-fed, pampered white men weren’t homophobic and raci
I couldn’t find anything fascinating, or even particularly interesting, about the history of Wall Street and its narrow-minded, patrician, sexist, anti-semitic Good Ole Boys that were responsible for its rise.
But they were all world-class snobs in the tradition of their Victorian English roots; and if Dickens wasn’t following them around with a writing pad, then he must have had some other way of capturing them because they were all right out of one of his novels.They say Wall Street is different now, but that just means that it’s no longer narrow-minded and -ismed.
More of a slog than The Warburgs, as it's less of a story and more of a fantastically well researched historical document which dips into shorter 'stories' at times. Something to study rather than to read for leisure.
