https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/950069.A_Story_a_Story
Haley and it details the adventures of Ananse, the Spider Man and his attempts at obtaining the stories from Nyame, the Sky God.
“A Story, A Story” is a clever book that fans of African folktales will definitely love!This is the story about Ananse the Spider Man and the sky god named Nyame, who owns all the stories and keeps them in his golden box next to his royal stool.
Haley has done an excellent job at both illustrating and writing this ancient African folktale about Ananse the Spider Man. Gail E.
I think I had this read to me at library story hour as a little kid. Vague memory of feeling that Mmoatia was treated badly and wondering what happened to her and the other characters who are tricked and trapped and give to Nyame. Also not sure about "fairy" as an equivalent for Mmoatia.
Now that we're officially starting school, it's nice to have some books put to the side just for social studies lessons and this has great information about African culture.
My son had a lot of question about the gods and such referenced in this book and I had to explain that now we're starting to learn about kids in other parts of the world, he'll get to see that everyone has many different ways of living.
He was fascinated and even my 3 yr old twins sat still long enough to enjoy this one.
A fascinating and colorful tale about a man who is given three almost-impossible tasks in exchange for a treasure box of stories. It's a fun story, and our girls liked the way the foreign words and rhythm were woven into the story. The woodcut illustrations are nicely rendered.This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
When living in the Caribbean, Haley was intrigued by the folk tales featuring leopards and tigers, animals not indigenous to the region.
She traced the origin of such stories to Africa, and further studied African folklore so she could capture the flavor of the languages, the people, and their customs.
Haley explains in the introduction that many African stories, even if they are not about Kwaku Ananse (the “spider man”) are called “Spider Stories.” This book is about how that came to be.
The illustrations are detailed, vibrantly colored and effective in supporting the story.
While this book had an interesting premise, I couldn't quite bring myself to like it very much.
I didn't like how easy it was for the spider man to do the things that the sky god asked, it seemed almost fake, how he knew exactly what to do and the animals did exactly what he thought they would.
I really liked the way the leopard was drawn, he seemed so dignified and bright in the illustrations.
The rest of the illustrations were pretty good but still I didn't care for A Story A Story all that much.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
The vibrant pictures allow students to hear this traditional African folktale while learning and understanding how different cultures speak and tell stories differently.
Not that you want them to begin repeating every important word on the page, but you could discuss with them what tools they use in order to emphasize and point out to their readers what words and phrases are important to them as the author and to the story as a whole.
In 4th grade it could lead to discussions of voice and story telling, and even a readers theatre with different characters involved.
A story A Story
Cleverness wins.
The tale of Kwaku Anase the "spiderman" and how he used his wit to meet the demands of Myame, the sky god, to get possession of the stories that were kept in a box, to tell to his village, and scatter them to the corners of the world to be told, shared and enjoyed by all humans.
Summary and Critique:This traditional African story features beautiful illustrations that highlight African culture and life.
The vibrant colors, bold patterns, and intricate lines combine to create a visually appealing book.
The story line of this book centers upon a man trying to find the first story in a world where all stories are kept by the sky god.
Some of the illustrations are quite educational as they show traditional African dress.
This beautiful work is filled with every-changing patterns and colors.Classroom use: I would incorporate this into a unit on folklore from around the world.Genre: FolkloreFormat: Picture BookReading level: Grades 3-4Theme: QuestsTopic: How the first stories came to beGender, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status: This book is an African tale, so it depicts only tribal Africans.
A story, a story by Haley Gail E. Genre: picture book Reading level: P-3 grade Format: good The book A Story A Story by Gail E. Haley is a very nice book. I thought it was very decorative and had interesting picture illustrations in the way the texture and color of every illustration had. For example having several textures of how the African tribe would dress and paint their faces. I thought it was quite interesting how the book mentioned how Africans believe in Gods and how people do whatever
A story, a story by Haley Gail E.
Haley is a very nice book.
I thought it was very decorative and had interesting picture illustrations in the way the texture and color of every illustration had.
I thought it was quite interesting how the book mentioned how Africans believe in Gods and how people do whatever is in their hands to please their god so they can get what they want.
Also it was nice how the book mentioned in the first page how the story is one of many African stories.
A Story A Story is an African tale about the origin of stories in the world. Long ago, all stories belonged to Nyame, the Sky God, who kept them in a box beside his throne. Ananse, the Spider man, decides to buy the stories from Nyame, who requests three tasks be carried out in exchange for the stories. Ananse cleverly completes all three tasks and earns the stories, now deemed Spider stories, and when he opens the box, all the stories are released into the world. This is an example of traditio
Ananse, the Spider man, decides to buy the stories from Nyame, who requests three tasks be carried out in exchange for the stories.
Ananse cleverly completes all three tasks and earns the stories, now deemed Spider stories, and when he opens the box, all the stories are released into the world.
This is an example of traditional literature, as it has been told and carried down through generations in African folklore, includes many elements specific to the culture of the people, and it is a “why” tale since it explains how stories came to be.
This story is helpful in teaching folktales for 2nd-4th grade, and has excellent illustrations to tell the tale.
(DVD Version) After reading Anansi Does The Impossible, I showed this 15-minute video version of the Anansi tale to my students.
James Earl Jones narrated Haley's text verbatim.This African tale recounts how Anansi gains control of all the stories, which are being held solely by Nyame, the Sky God. In this version, Anansi is depicted as a "spider man," one who can spin silk and weave webs.
The novelty of the video format kept my kids captivated, although I don't know that simplicity of the text and illustrations of the print version would have engaged them as much as Verna Aardema's Anansi Does The Impossible.
Ananse, also known as the Spider Man, is in the market for some stories, but the Sky God drives a hard bargain and sets before him three seemingly-impossible task.
Ananse prove himself worthy of the stories as he cleverly uses cunning and trickery to capture a leopard, several hornets, and a fairy.
My favorite illustration shows him bowing before the Sky God and placing before him all the creatures he was sent to find.
I can't vouch for its cultural authenticity although I am familiar with many spider stories, but I find this simply enchanting in so many ways.
"A Story, a Story" the African folklore picture book wonderfully written by author Gail E.
The book introduces the tale of Ananse, the Spider man, and African culture's "Spider stories".
The story tells of how many traditional stories have been shared and spread across the globe.
This tale begins at a lonesome and saddening time were there are no stories to be told, but that doesn't stop the main character of the book.
This book utilizes the vibrant colors and story telling methods from African culture, and is a great way to share traditional African folklore with the children of the world.
This book called A Story- A Story was well written by Gail E. Haley. The main character Ananse; a African story teller, wanted to tell stories to the people on earth. Ananse wanted to buy the Sky God’s Stories so he spun a web up to the sky. He then bought the stories from the God’s and brought them back down to earth. The illustrations in this book are very fascinating. The colors set the mood for the reader. It tells a story with even just looking at the pictures.
The story of how Ananse "spider" stories came to be. These are amazing wood block prints done in multiple colors with a great sense of movement. No wonder this book was published in the early 70's - the patterns have a groovy feel. This works well as a read-aloud due to the magic of three pattern and repetition to create rhythm.
The first of all African tales told thanks to the wit and character of Anansi. I really enjoyed how Haley seems to have tried hard to not only capture the place and origin of the story but seems to have tried to pay tribute to the rhythm and language of the story too. I love the sharp, bold print of the illustrations and think the book lends itself very well to being read aloud.
1971 Caldecott winnerI enjoyed this Anansi story. It made me wonder if the Tar Baby story from Brer Rabbit came from this same folktale.
I think this and Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People's Ears are perfect compliments to one another. For more:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/11/cal...
Story: 2 starsImages: 2 starsActual: 2 stars
This book was an awesome take on the "legend" stories that are common in African culture.
It was a fixed pattern that other things were painted on top of, which seemed like a stamp to me.
I think this story's style is folk or native art.
Stamping set patterns for the sky, ground, and forest constantly reinforced the style of this story.
I think this would be great with kids because it is a great example of what style of art is traditionally common in this culture.
For art, I would have the kids go through and pick out a pattern they liked.
It is a story of how Kwaku Ananse the "spider man" came to buy stories from Nyame, the Sky God. Ananse outwits Osebo the leopard of-the-terrible-teeth, Mmboro the hornet who-stings-like-fire, and Moatia the fairy whom-men-never-see by playing tricks on each one.
After each trick is played Ananse builds a web and gives his prizes to the Sky God. The book is informative, I learned why phrases are repeated in African folklore.
The gum doll does not respond so the fairy says, "I'll slap your crying place unless you answer me!" Creative writing like this will have A Story A Story a favorite among all children.
I think that children who are 7 years of age and older would benefit more from reading this book than younger children because there is a lot of confusing terminology and cultural aspects if a child is unfamiliar with the culture.
The characters in the story are dressed in traditional African dress, which is a really cool visual for anyone who is unfamiliar with the culture.
I would recommend this book to anyone looking to step outside of their comfort zone when it comes to traditional children's stories.
In this myth, an old man named Kwaku Ananse (the Spider-Man) sought to buy all stories from the Sky God. To do this, Ananse spun a web and climbed to the Sky God’s domain.
Despite the odds, Ananse was able to deliver the creatures to the Sky God. The Sky God praised Ananse and allowed him to release the stories around the world.
I encourage other people (especially students in elementary school and middle school) to read this book because it can help us become more interested in African stories and culture.
The old man goes to the Sky God to ask for his stories.
The Sky God, tells the old man that for him to get the stories he must compete tasks and bring him things.
So, the old man goes back to the Sky God with the things that he asked for and the Sky God give him a golden box with all his stories in it.
Use in the classroom: I would use this book as a read-aloud and then ask the students if the grandparents have stories that they like to share with them, or any family member that has stories that they were passed down through generations.
Haley’s Caldecott award-winner A Story- A Story retells an African folk tale about the origin of all stories through beautiful woodcut illustrations and rhythmic language reflective of the oral storytelling tradition.
Her use of textual vocal sounds also mirrors for children the auditory sensation of telling stories aloud – Ananse hung the leopard “by his foot by his foot by his foot by his foot,” the sky god laughs “twe, twe, twe,” and the gods applaud and cheer Ananse’s success with cries of “Eeeee, Eeeee, Eeeee.” Haley’s book allows both young readers and adults to experience the importance of reading stories aloud.
This Caldecott Medal winning picture book is an African tale about Ananase, the spider man who wanted to buy the Sky God’s stories.
This book is a traditional tale, so it took a bit for me to fully comprehend what I was reading, but basically he spun a web up to the sky, in order to get the stories he needed a form of payment but the Sky God figured that he would never be able to get the payment that was needed because he was small, old, and weak.
The intended ages for this book is for the children ages 7 and older.
I think this book had a good story line.
The characters had a good roles to the meaning of the story.The reason I rated this book with only one star was because of the language.
The illustrations and colors were beautiful ,but the language of this children's book could have been simpler.
I think this book would not be appealing to young readers because the words are to difficult to pronounce.
If I was working with children I would introduce them to this book on African holiday's.
