https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1153310.From_Two_to_Five
Some day a creative publisher is going to make a lot of money on a reprint of this unique little book.
At its heart is a running anthology of various "mistakes" that Chukhovsky - one of, if not the greatest Russian children's writer - has heard kids say over the years.
C lines them up and then annotates them with a very pragmatic and sympathetic view of how children develop and use language.
One of those books you find yourself constantly wanting to quote to people.
A child gloats about how, when her grandmother dies, she'll be able to use her sewing machine.
Perhaps some of his points will seem commonplace today, like calling children tireless explorers, but it is a refreshing break from the dialectic between B.
Beyond its expressed purpose, the book also offers a reminder that there was a true progressive aspect to the Soviet Union, particularly in childhood education, even if some of Chukovsky's anecdotes make clear some educators were too consumed with creating adults to understand how important children's imagination and need for fantasy is.
Given some of the occasions Chukovsky describes one wonders what he experienced that he did not feel he could say in the relatively lax era of the 1960s when this book was written.
Точно могу вспомнить два раза - первый, когда мы только-только смогли приобрести по подписке (помнит ли ещё кто-то, что это такое?) двухтомник Чуковского, мне на тот момент было лет десять и из мыслей, которые доносит Корней Иванович в этом (по сути) сборнике статей, я понял, дай бог, половину.
Это было, несомненно, гораздо более осмысленное чтение.Сейчас я перечитываю эту книгу уже как счастливый отец и с интересом отмечаю ряд этапов развития речи и мышления (и творчества!), которые отмечает и Чуковский, и те авторы, на которых он ссылается, но замечаю и кое-что ещё, что несколько не увязывается не только с теми детьми, но и с теми взрослыми, о которых пишет Корней Иванович.
from the pen of a pioneering child linguist, the foremost translator who ever lived, and a man who never failed to criticize the Russian education system - and was never imprisoned!
Why is this book so short, when the original Russian work was so long?
Because most of the examples in the Russian work come from Russian language, literature, and letters; so this much-abridged translation was prepared for English speakers who do not know Russian.
As an added bonus, there is an excellent translation of Chukovsky's poem about the Cockroach in the back of this book.
Интересно перекликается с Происхождение языка: факты, исследования, гипотезы в той части, где Чуковский рассказывает о становлении речи у детей (а это где-то две трети книги).
Really awesome, though I wasn't able to read all of it. Still, considering how dated it is, I think it's still very relevant and worth a read. Great insight into why nonsense and creativity are important for children.
interesting and funny
It's not exactly my cup of tea and I skimmed through the last two chapters, since I'm not that invested in child psychology, but it's a fun read nevertheless, poetic and didactic at the same time. My favorite chapter is "The Tireless Explorer," with a bunch of cute examples that are truly comedy gold.
