https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1418767.Baboushka_and_the_Three_Kings
We really enjoyed this 1960's retelling of this well known folktale.
I found the illustrations appealing although I must agree with my daughter, some faces are unusual!
I did like the unusual style, the pale faded blue, orange, green and yellow was used effectively with blurry lines that look like a marker pen that has been well used.
The end pages have some piano music and words that were actually quite good and not, as we expected just included for the sake of it.
My daughter played it and it was a nice piece of music and a lovely inclusion for the book.
Ruth Robbins shows the character Baboushka as a humble and kind-hearted woman who at first had to refuse the three kings’ offer to finish her housework which shows her dedication to her work and then wanting to find the child to give him gifts.
Also, Nicolas Sidjakov’s illustrations are a bit too simplistic to capture the emotional tone of this book as the characters look like stick figures and the backgrounds rarely have any color and the way that the field’s are illustrated is not in a more broader view and rarely have any colors that would make the backgrounds feel fuller.“Baboushka and the Three Kings” is a truly emotional tale that some children would enjoy, however, because of the sad ending and the simplistic illustrations, this might not be a book that most children would enjoy.
I finished the story and was so interested in the origins of the story.
I thought, wow, how interesting that the Russian fable placed their Santa figure at the birth of Christ.
But, actually, this is *not* an authentic Russian fable and it is actually more closely tied to the Italian legend of La Befana.
Please see Cheryl's review for a link to an excellent article about the origins of this "Russian" story: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...In any case, I really enjoyed the lovely storytelling here (inauthentic though it may be) but I was not at all a fan of the illustrations.
Baboushka and The Three Kings was illustrated by Nicolas Sijakov and written by Ruth Robbins in 1960 and was chosen the Caldecott Medal Winner the following year.
With private and public money, they have made huge investments in all kinds of books for everyone to borrow and savour so that reading is accessible to all regardless of wealth.BABOUSHKA AND THE THREE KINGS is a simple story.
Interesting Caldecott winner. The version I read looks like it was an original printing and there is history about the source of the material on the jacket flaps. Not sure where it is placed on later printings. It's kind of a weird book, but I loved the illustration style, felt it was a good fit for the story. I loved that she left 'poor but precious presents'. What a different thought.
I am very lucky to own a copy of most of the Caldecott winning books going back to the second book, Mei Li. My grandmother is a lover of books and she saved many books from her own childhood, and as her first grandchild she wanted to pass her love of books to me.
I continued her tradition and still buy the Caldecott winner every year to keep up with my collection.
The next day, Baboushka decides she wants to find the Child so she finds a simple gift to bring to him.
A Christmas folktale from Russia, Baboushka and the Three Kings tells the story of an old woman who, when the Three Kings stop at her humble cottage on their way to visit the Christ child, chooses not to accompany them on their journey.
I wish I could say that I enjoyed Nicolas Sidjakov's illustrations - which were awarded the Caldecott Medal in 1961 - as much as the narrative, but I'm afraid that this particular style of four-color artwork, so popular in the 1960s, does not appeal to me.
Baboushka: A Christmas Folktale from Russia
), with illustrations by Helen Cann.
These men invite Baboushka to come along with them, through the storm, in order to find the place where a child is born and offer him gifts.
In the end, Baboushka decides to travel into the storm the next morning – searching from village to village in order to find the child and offer him her poor, but precious, gifts.
Baboushka never finds the child, however, she never ended her search – even to this day children wait for Baboushka to come in the night to leave behind her poor, but precious, gifts.
This is a fascinating folktale from Russia; a story of the Three Kings on their way to visit baby Jesus, not knowing what was to come. The perspective is an unusual one and is a refreshing twist on the tale. The illustrations are very angular, with simple, primary colors; not sure why they earned the Caldecott Medal. I like that they included the song at the end of the story.This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
The three kings stop at Baboushka's hut on their way to find the new born babe.The art is more stylized than I like.
For example, one of the lines on p 2 reads:Baboushka's hut felt snug around her; her warm stove was the center of a cold world.My 3-year-old nephew wanted to know where the stove was.
there are lots of ways it could have been made more recognizable.Oh, well.
Bottom line: I'll keep the book and put it with my Christmas stories, but only because it's small.
(Bad reason, I know.)
Who cannot identify with the old woman hesitant to take a chance and slip out into the cold with three strangers? This book left me somewhat sad, the old woman left searching forever. I don't like the style of illustration very much, even for being a Caldecott medal book. Perhaps if I read this on a different day, in a different mood I would have reacted differently?
Here it is! Baboushka is NOT just a term of endearment for my little brother! Who'd a thought? This changes EVERYTHING!
While illustration styles have changed, this book still has much to be considered when looking at how the art works with story.
The story is simple: one cold night in Russia, Baboushka is doing her chores when she is asked to join in the search for the Child.
The illustrations are awkward to someone unfamiliar with the style, but its simplicity and tone really do take you back in time in old Russia.
To today’s children, however, the illustrations will likely just look old and outdated; which, to be fair, they are.
From the illustrations you can see that the woman is surprised to see the men.
Which allows the reader to imagine what is going with their own details added.Critique: This book was really simple not supper detailed in it's illustrations.
It allows the reader to imagine the details of the book by taking the illustrations and adding their own details.
It's kind of a mysterious book the men seem to appear and disappear in the blink of an eye.
One that tells if the old woman every find the men that she is looking for and the adventures that she takes each year to find these men.
• 1961 Caldecott Winner •This book is so hard to rate - the story is AMAZING!
And the markers they used were the ones at the bottom of the barrel and they had to use the black marker that looks like it’s running out of ink and is almost gray, and the other colors are weird because that’s all that’s left.
I wish the art matched the story!
Even though I think the art is weird, I absolutely love this story!
It’s just really unique and different and an unusual Christmas book.
This Russian folktale details the story of a woman, Baboushka, as she searches endlessly for the newborn christ child.
This story is the foundation of the tradition of Russian children waiting for Baboushka to visit on Christmas while she searches.
The illustrations were incredibly simple and done in classic Russian style, which I thought was a very nice touch and made the book feel very authentic but could turn others away from the book.
I liked this book a lot, the story was interesting and the illustrations were unique, plus I love learning about other cultures especially though folktales.
This story covers a side of the biblical story of the birth of Jesus Christ and the three kings who brought him presents.
One night after hearing a lot of commotion outside her hut three well-dressed men knocked on her door.
They stated they were on a journey to find the “babe”, which in this case is Jesus, but the snow made it difficult for them to see the way so they needed a guide to get them though.
But it did set an example of the type of art from the time of his birth to look similar which made for a good connection when understanding the book but not getting emotionally attached.
In the book, Babushka and the Three Kings by Ruth Robins, Babushka is approached by three kings who heard of a baby being born and asked for her help.
Babushka at first said no, finished cleaning her house, then heads off to find the kings by going trough city to city.
The text in the book is quite long and extensive for an illustrated book, but it does represent the three kings wanting to see baby Jesus quite well and the Babushka version of Santa Claus, in a child's language.
Overall, this book is colorful and can be used as a book for discussing helping others.
At the door, was three rich kings that asked Baboushka to follow them on their journey to find a child that was directed by a star.
She decided to stay back, but later on, decided to pack bag of gifts and journeyed to find this child.
Eventually, she couldn't find the child, but still continued to carry the gifts that she wanted to give around.
Now, there is a legend around that child's birth, which is that Baboushka goes on her journey with gifts to give out to the children.
Baboushka and the Three KingsRuth RobbinsIllustrated by Nicolas SidjakovCaldecott Award 1961. The art of this small picture book really appeals to me. They are thick black lines like you might see in the stained glass windows of a gothic cathedral. Then whole sections may be filled in with a simple color. A glorious and innovated way to set the scene and feel of the story. The story itself is a simple retelling of the folk tale about Baboushka and her quest to find the newborn child. The art and simpleness of the story creates a very touching moment.3 1/2 stars.
Learn the story behind the Russian tradition of Baboushka, the little old woman who leaves little gifts for children at Christmas time.Ages: 4 - 8#christmas #geography #russia #culture**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
This simple little picture book is the retelling of a traditional Russian folk tale about an old woman who is visited by the Three Kings as they follow the star in search of the Child. They ask her to accompany them, but she declines, then thinks better of it, but cannot find their trail. Each year she renews her search, and she leaves little gifts for the children she encounters on her way. Nicolas Sidjakov’s illustrations earned the Caldecott Medal. They remind me of stained glass windows, with strong lines and bright colors.
Very simple folktale of how one Baboushka is known to bring gifts to every door of every child in her endless quest for the Christ Child, after she regrettably does not join 3 Kings who invite her to go with them; the 1961 Caldecott Winner uses minimal color and an almost Pollock style of blocks and lines for the simplistic illustrations;
Genre: Traditional LiteratureGrade Level: 3-5This book is a cute story of an old women and wise men. This is an old tale that has been passed on generation to generation. I remember hearing it from my grandmother who heard it from her grandmother. It teaches a great lesson as well, you might regret something if you do not leap at the chance the first time.
I didn't care for the illustrations. Baboushka was dumb for not going with the 3 kings in the first place. And I didn't like the ending - all of the sudden, children everywhere love Baboushka because she leaves presents, which wasn't described previously AT ALL.
I'm not impressed by the illustrations in this one. I would read it to my second graders because it is an old Russian folktale. The theme or moral to this book is not clear to me. It could possibly be - It is important to keep our eyes and ears open, so you don't miss opportunities. I could see this being used for a Christmas around the world unit. I like the christian Christmas connections with the three kings, and the child and the gifts.
I thought the illustrations were interesting. The story itself felt incomplete and sad. I even wondered if it was meant to be a reflection of religion in Russia. I probably wouldn't read it again as it lacks hope.
This is the Caldecott Medal winner from 1961. It really is a beautiful story of an old woman who is visited by three kings who are in search of the new Child. Although the wording may reflect the era in which the story was written, the story itself holds up to time.
The story is a twist on the 3 kings journey to see Christ. The images are simple in nature, but I really like how the artist drew the cityscape. The simple line drawn buildings were beautiful. The other images did not appeal as much to me.
Cute book. I think the few colors they used for illustration are wonderful. This is a very cute Russian folk tale. Quick read and I think young students will like it. They will like following Babouska’s journey to find Him!
