https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/493398.Great_Day_for_Up
Great ending: "Wake every person, pig and pup,till EVERYONEon Earth is up!Except for me.Please go away.No up.I'm sleeping in today."Illustrations by one of the best--Quentin Blake.
I also enjoyed seeing the images of the various characters jumping around excitedly at the approaching new day upon them.The reason why I gave this book a four-star rating was because even though I thought that Quentin Blake’s artwork was cute, I personally think that it looked a bit out of place in a Dr. Seuss book, even though I was alright with Lane Smith’s artwork in “Hooray for Diffendoofer Day!” I guess I was so used to Dr. Seuss doing the artwork for his own books that seeing another artist do the artwork for his books kind of threw me off a bit.Overall, “Great Day for Up” is a truly cute book about getting up in the mornings to approach a new day ahead of you that children will definitely be inspired by!
FIRST READ OF 2018  Just wanted to start this new year with something light & easy read, so at once thought of Dr. Seuss :) I'm glad that he never fails to disappoint with any of his humorous books with twisty, wacky stories of imaginary characters! Reading him today after so long & it feels great to be back to the same place, from where I have left reading some months ago. . Overall, the book was good with a funny ending :) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=heq8P...
“A Great Day for Up” is a fun poetry book (interest level: K-2) about the word “up.” Similar in style to other Dr. Seuss works, this book is positive, visually engaging, and has a surprise ending that students (and adults) will enjoy!
While the book includes a few simplistic rhymes (i.e.: up/-cup/pup, hen/men), the text also includes many rhymes that illustrate how similar vowel sounds can be spelled a variety of ways (i.e. rights/kites, wire/higher, wheels/seals).
As such, this book would make a great introduction to a word sort activity for students.
42 WORD REVIEW:The first Dr Seuss book not illustrated by the man himself, Great Day For Up was brought to life instead by the redoubtable — and equally inimitable — Quentin Blake. The rhythm is slippery at times but the book verily fizzes with joyous exuberance.
Fun book to read aloud with lovely illustrations from Quentin Blake.
Another great book for beginning readers. Our 6 year old could read most of it and I think it's a great boost for her to know that she's starting to read books outside of the ones she reads in school. This is a simple book that repeats the word up a lot and has a lot of rhyming narrative and pictures that help figure out some of the bigger words.
This book it can be helpful to read for children for an activity related to help them coordination and balance such as put something on top of their head and move around.LE. Practice balance and coordination with a beam or a line with children as walk on top of the line with an object on top of their heads.
A cute and amusing book that has a predictably tongue-in-cheek ending from the one and only Dr. Seuss.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I loved this book as a child so much so that I can remember my Mom reading this to me. I had forgotten about it and recognized the cover when I did a search on the author.
This book is very well written, and predictable so young kids can help read it.
today when I read it I thought that everone in my family will love it.
Great Day for Up (1974) is a picture book written by Dr. Seuss and illustrated by Quentin Blake; on the cover, there's a small sticker/markup that recommends the book for early readers.
The story in the book consists of small words that either make up a directive to the audience or set of characters on the page and is written in rhyme form (usually ABCB or ABCDEC).
Characters and settings are full of color and the words come in differing sizes to let readers know how loudly to read/pronounce the specific words throughout the story.
Fun illustrations!Ages: 2 - 4**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
Many years ago, I had a girlfriend who had a kid who was one year old. This kid liked three things; Barney the Dinosaur, Glenn Miller on cassette (what was up with that?), and Great Day for Up, which, ironically, was his favourite bed time book. I read this book out loud to that kid maybe fifty times, and you know what? I never got sick of it. What better testimony could you ask for?
Dr Seuss book about what a great day today, or any day, is for 'up.' 'Up' is open for interpretation, but I take it as meaning to get up and do something, anything. Has the typical rhyming, but is not illustrated by Dr. Seuss so the characters are not characteristic of most of his books. Nice, quick read. I like that the whole book touts getting up and doing something, but at the end of the story, the narrator does not want to get up.
Awards- None Genre-Fiction Illustrations- Dr. Suess is known for his silly drawings and this follows suit. The pictures are sketch and then done with what seems like watercolor. The drawings are so abstract that they are fun and inviting for students. There are also a lot of elements in each drawing and you see something different every time. Summary- This book talks about things going up and things that wake up!
Great to get kids talking! My daughter is more and more fascinated with letters and the way "UP" is illustrated throughout this charming book is an effective way of reinforcing early reading skills. Already at around 18 months she was pointing to the word and shouting it aloud as I read. I've long been a fan of Quentin Blake's illustrations (mostly those done for Roald Dahl's books) and they work very here with Dr. Seuss's text.
Dr. Seuss showcases many aspect of writing and literature in this book. The use of counting is touched on. Words rhyme as well. The overall theme is Up! The sun rises. Bunnies hop. Sounds can get louder. This book demonstrates the verb "up" through several different examples. The illustrations help the reader visualize "up" as well.
S 4 (3)
A fun 'get out of bed" storybook. Filled with simple words and just a few per page so makes it an easy to learn to read book for beginning readers.
This is an average kids story. The story is rhyme-y and fun to read. The illustrations aren’t as interesting as some other Dr. Seuss books.
In easy words for young readers, the world is getting up for the day. Cute ending.
This is the first book I ever read by myself.
This book has easy words, and funny. However, someone can feel boring, so I only recommend to little kids. Thank you.
Great pictures and simple words, perfect for beginning readers. I liked that there was a theme and essentially story throughout the book and a decent, fairly clear rhyming pattern.
fun read
A classic. Fun to read.
It's difficult not to feel joy when reading this vibrant, energy-filled picture book moving and going UP! UP! UP!
What a fun book - it's so up! The children I read this to enjoyed it very much!
