https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1220113.It_s_Not_Easy_Being_a_Bunny
“It’s Not Easy Being a Bunny” will surely be a classic for fans of P.J. Funnybunny.Marilyn Sadler has written a delightfully cute story about how P.J. Funnybunny was not satisfied with being a mere bunny until he experiences the lives of the other animals.
Roger Bollen’s illustrations are hilarious and cute at the same time, especially of the image of P.J. Funnybunny having huge ears and a large pink nose, making look like a very cute bunny.“It’s Not Easy Being a Bunny” is the perfect book about being yourself and being satisfied with your current lifestyle.
This is the very first book I successfully read on my own when i was about 4 or 5. This book will always hold something dear to me and it holds a very deep and wholesome moral: Always be yourself.Its a great book to read to younger children with great illustration and short but descriptive paragraphs on each page. If your young one is just starting out, this is the one to grab. 5/5
Such a cute book!!! (:
This is about a bunny who doesn't like living with his bunny family, and wants to live elsewhere. He lives with various animals, until he realize the best place is home with his own bunny family.
PJ Funnybunny is tired of being a bunny , but after trying on the personas of other animals , learns a valuable lesson about liking who you are. Q's Easter Book.
"It's Not Easy Being a Bunny" is a book about a rabbit who's not satisfied with the everyday life of being a rabbit.
He ventured into the world to try to become like different animals.
After living with each of these animal families for a short period of time, P.J realizes that his life as a bunny isn't really as bad as he thought it was.
He returns to his family and appreciates his life more.
I really like the book.
Many of us take our families and lifestyles for granted.
I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone.
This is a simple story that builds animal upon animal with lots of repetition and colorful illustrations that will entertain young children. It is perfect for beginning readers and our girls read this one aloud during storytime.
P.J. no longer wanted to be a bunny, therefore he tried to become all different types of other animals, only to discover he really liked being a bunny. It is a good read for children who are having troble realizing that who they are is pretty amazing.
Super cute! Every one of my kids have loved this book!
It’s Not Easy Being a Bunny by Marilyn Sadler is under the genre Children’s Literature as a picture book.
I rated It’s Not Easy Being a Bunny by Marilyn Sadler five stars because the theme of this story teaches young readers to love and appreciate who you are.
After sharing this book with a group of four year olds, we discussed the question, “It’s not easy being four because…” The answers every absolutely hilarious - some were, “I want to be five, it’s hard being a big brother, and I want to go to the store to get marsh-mellows!” One simply stated, “I have no complaints”.
It's Not Easy Being a Bunny Personal Response: Tony gave this book a 5 out of 5 because it is funny and it is a good book.
He also liked that P.J. went through all of these different animal's families, just to be a bunny.Plot: The book  It's Not Easy Being a Bunny  is about a bunny named P.
went on an adventure to see what animal he wanted to be.
After all of the animals he wanted to be, he decided that he wanted to be a bunny because he is good at being a bunny.Recommendations: I recommend this book for little kids.
"It's Not Easy Being a Bunny" is a story about P.J. Funnybunny who tries to discover who he is.
The lesson that this story reveals is that it's always better to be yourself than someone else; you were meant to live the life you were given.
I think these ideals are incredibly important for children, and even adults, to hear!
I would recommend this book for children aged 4-8, but it could honestly work for all ages because it's always important to hear that you should just be yourself!

PJ Funnybunny gets down on himself because he has big ears, he tries to find himself by living with a bear, a bird, and other animals only to find that being a bunny is what he's good at and what he's meant to be.
This story is obviously a allegory for being yourself and not changing yourself for anyone else.
As a child I remember reading this and wanting to be a bear.
You always want something that you're not.
The book says this in the beginning but doesn't say how that's normal and okay.
I still love the book but true is true.
My Review: This is such a classic book, I remember reading it as a kid myself, so I was thrilled when Munchkin picked this story out at the library. I love the classic illustration style, it is simple and a little cartoonish that adds character to the story. Munchkin really liked that he was able to read the story, the words were all simple and the sentences short. There is a lot of repetition that young ones will enjoy. It also has a great message about being happy with who you are and not trying to be someone else.
It's Not Easy Being a Bunny has a good lesson behind the story. PJ funny bunny tries to be a different animal and every animal he tries to be doesn't work for him because that is not who he is. In the end he wanted to stay himself because thats who he is supposed to be.
Funny book :) Teaches self-acceptance
6yo: “it is a nice book”
P.J. Funnybunny is tired of being a bunny, so he goes off to try living with other animals.
My 5yr old boy loves this book!Will edit this review later.
Adorably written and illustrated! Borrowed from the little free library by Acorn Park. I totally relate - I want to be a bunny and eat cooked carrots too!
This will give you good old hurting belly laugh!
PJ doesn't wan to be a bunny anymore because he's tired of eating carrots, he hates his big, floppy ears, and he has too many siblings. So, he leaves his family and joins first the bear family, then the bird family, and so on. The story is cute, and the illustrations fun, but overall, the book is underwhelming.
He doesn't like eating carrots all the time or how many brothers and sisters he has, or how big his ears are.
After he visits all the other animals he is able to realize just how much he loves being a bunny.As a teacher, I think this is a story all children can relate to.
There have been times for all of us when we are not happy about our family.
This book also teaches children about how to appreciate the small things about our families that make them so great.
I could use this book to teach about text to self relations or perspective.
I think this book is great to have in the classroom for beginning readers (pre-k - kindergarten) because it is entertaining, has great illustrations, and follows a pattern so children learning to read can practice their reading skills such as recognize patterns and be able to think about what might happen next.
I also think this book is great for young children tor read because it's theme is such a valuable lesson of being proud of and embracing who you are.
For older beginning readers this book could also be used as an example of onomatopoeia with the sounds that the other animals make that PJ meets throughout the story.
As with all the Seussian books this book has lots of repetition, this helps struggling readers see words over and over with the intent being that more exposure will lead to recognition.
The illustrations that match the text help guide these readers in their understanding of the text, and all of these elements help with sequencing skills.
This can also be helpful with having students make predictions.
If the students know that they are all animals then their predictions will follow the same rules.
Who knows, you may get a child that comes up with an unusual animal that could prompt a writing opportunity.
This book has a very cute, creative way of teaching diversity and to be happy with who you are.
In this book, the bunny decides he doesn't like being a bunny anymore and he wants to go and try living with numerous other animals and being just like them.
It's the classic, "is the grass truly greener on the other side?" type of book.I would use this book with younger children to help teach diversity and to be happy with who they are.
There are several activities that we could do such as writing another ending to the book in which the bunny visits several other animal families before deciding he still wanted to be a bunny.
It’s Not Easy Being a Bunny is a book about a young bunny that sets out to see if he should be some other animal.
He tries to be a bear and hibernate, and a bird and fly, and soon realizes he is meant to be a bunny.
This is an important book for kids to read because it teaches about identity.
Children often get confused on who they are or what they should be and this reminds us it is okay to be ourselves.
I would recommend any grade school level student read this book.
It's not easy being a bunny.
This book is about P.J. Funnybunny, who does not like being a bunny because he has to eat carrots and his ears were big.
He leaves home and goes to live with the bears, birds, beavers, pigs, moose, possums and skunks, but P.J. finds out that he does not like those either.
After his adventures, he decides that life as a bunny is pretty great and he ends up going home after all.
They also add more to the story than the text because extra detail is included that is not there otherwise.
In addition, the text and concepts are simple so the book is perfect for young readers.
The main character in this story is P.J. Funnybunny.
P.J has a lot of brothers and sisters, and kinda gets tired of his big family.
Throughout the story, P.J tries to pretend he is a different animal such as a bear, a bird, a moose and a beaver.
But when he goes to live with those animals, he gets bored quickly because he can't do all the things that they can do.
In the end, He realizes that he just likes being a bunny.
He decides to go back home, after-all.
Its a quite lengthy story, but good to read.
