https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18214414-the-silkworm
Welcome back to 12 Bar Cafe.. to Cormoran Strike's.Welcome back in London,and to actually Being Strike.I still see him as "Hugh Jackman" :),with some hair style to match, & Emma Watson as his adorable blonde, smart secretary, Robin.And Welcome to The Case of the Manuscript of....Bombyx Mori “..writers are a savage breed, Mr. Strike. If you want life-long friendship and selfless camaraderie, join the army and learn to kill. If you want a lifetime of temporary alliances with peers who will glo
It forces Strike to enter the nest of the Literary community, Which is Never as calm as you may think..It's full of envy, bloody parodies...indecent metaphors , and in this case,A carcass that slaughtered brutally ,viciously and , somehow, symbolic..It's the Silkworm Case...A worried wife comes to Cormoran Strike's to investigate the usual disappearance of her husband the writer after some troubles with his agent about publishing his new novel.Strike discover that the manuscript of his unpublished novel is awfully describes every one in the author's life in a sarcasm, indecent bloody metaphors, some of it'd even ruin lives and reputations.The problem is , the manuscript get leaked, and most of London literary community knows all about, the people involved are important ones, powerful and some of them, as many people of the literary circles, weirdos or even worst, maniacs..
Wicked brilliant!  ( Yes ;) Pun intended! ) HERE COMES CORMORAN & ROBIN AGAIN! If you are respectably active on the reading community, it will be no surprise that this "Robert Galbraith" is really the mega-famous writer J.K. Rowling, author of the ultra-mega-famous book series of Harry Potter. Why bother on making up the pseudonym when it was revealed after like two weeks when the first novel of this different series got out, that's a mystery to me! (Yes, another pun intended :P ).Evidently
(Yes, another pun intended :P ).Evidently the genre, topics and setting of the Cormoran Strike book series is totally different from what you find on Harry Potter, but there are other authors writing different kind of genres and to different target audiences, and still they keep their own established author names.Anyway, the relevant point here is that "Robert Galbraith" doesn't exist but J.K. Rowling definitely exist and a lot in the literary world.
Also, another good thing was that while in the first book, you get to know irrelevant moments of Strike's personal life, in this second novel, Rowling was able to exploit each personal moment to be totally involved in the case.
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: Wherein there are many meals, and nearly every important chat occurs in a restaurant, pub, or over tea and biscuits.
J.K Rowling releases a novel under a pseudonym? Then announces that said novels sequel is already written and will be released in 2014??This is how I imagine she looks right now.Edit Feb 2014: We have a name, release date AND a synopsis?!?! Bloody hell!
I FINALLY FINISHED THIS THING. And it was great! I actually liked this book more than the first one, but just by a hair. Highly recommend getting the audiobooks for these.
I very much doubt Strike could compete with that — so yea, the only way to make his character come out on top and solve everything was by making everyone else dumb, which was plain lazy writing.-I didn't like the heavy handed portrayal of Robin and Matthew's relationship.
Has Rowling never met any women who eats takeaways or desserts or something?!-I actually think I would have enjoyed reading Bombyx Mori (the much talked about manuscript in the book) more than this — it sounded wonderfully bonkers.-I did really love some of the side characters, they were infinitely more interesting than Strike and Robin.
"...Writers are a savage breed, Mr. Strike. If you want life-long friendship and selfless camaraderie, join the army and learn to kill. If you want a lifetime of temporary alliances with peers who will glory in your every failure, write novels." And just like that, J.K. Rowling under the pseudonym of Robert Galbraith takes on the familiar to her world of writing and publishing, bringing to light the petty conflicts, backstabbing attitudes, hurtful gossips and inflated egos. The bared claws and
And just like that, J.K. Rowling under the pseudonym of Robert Galbraith takes on the familiar to her world of writing and publishing, bringing to light the petty conflicts, backstabbing attitudes, hurtful gossips and inflated egos.
The victim, Owen Quine, is a not-too-successful writer and, frankly, a very unpleasant person, whose latest book seems to focus on trash-talking everyone connected to him in the literary world and personal life and pisses off quite a number of people.
As much as I enjoyed the first Strike book this second venture was rather a let down.
Yes the mystery has changed plot from a murder of a starlet in the first book to a murder of and author in the second book.The assumption is that the Silkworm takes place a few months after the finish of the first book, and the dates dropped within the text indicate that they were written in the 2010/2011 time frame.
Ms. Rowling did not give herself enough time to re-charge her batteries.
أنه وقت معرفة سبب أخر وراء أستخدام جي كي رولينج أسما مستعارا لكتابة تلك السلسلة "الكُتّاب قطيع متوحش، سيد سترايك. إن أردت أن تكوّن علاقات تدوم العمر كله وصداقات حميمة خالية من الأنانية، أنضم للجيش وتعلم كيف تقتلوإن أردت حياة مليئة بالتحالفات المؤقتة، مع أقران يأتي فخرهم ومجدهم من أي لحظة فشل لك، فلتكتب روايات" أو أكتب مراجعات مثلا، لا فارقففي هذه الرواية القضية الدموية الكثير من الغيرة والأحقاد، تشبيهات أدبية وأستعارات فجة، محاكاة ساخرة غير لائقة، مجازات غير أخلاقية..وبيست سيلرزفي هذه القضية يقت

In the Cormoran Strike mystery series, we have another female character of much greater intrigue shunted to the side in favor of a male protagonist, aka Hermione Granger Syndrome.
Strike, on the other hand, does not interest me as a protagonist: he’s arrogant and infallible (sorta reminds you of a character whose name rhymes with Barry Lotter, non?), meaning that whenever Strike eliminates a suspect from contention, I know him to be absolutely right, simply because J.K. Rowling writes Strike in a way that he is always right.
I decided to upgrade my rating when I went to visit my mum and I saw the novel on the nightstand, halfway read.
Obviously, I was immediately drawn by the mystery of this novel as it deals with the literary world.
I particularly enjoyed that the book was half mystery and half the life of the two characters.You might wonder why I did not want to give it the maximum rating from the start.
I hope she will work a bit more on the endings as she almost ruined Harry Potter for me with the over the years recap.
The relationship between Strike and his girl-Friday/Watson/Hastings/Bunter character Robin was fun to get a closer, more complex glimpse of in this second installment of the series.
It's my understanding that when Galbraith was unmasked as Rowling this particular novel had already been submitted to the publisher and was in the process of being edited, so I don't know if that experience has soured her on continuing the series, but I sincerely hope that it has not as I hope for many returns of these characters.
Even if she publishes other work unrelated to this series (and I hope she does) I hope she plans to return to the surly detective soon.
How did the people rate a book not yet published? I am confused.
The Silkworm (Cormoran Strike #2), Robert Galbraith (Pseudonym), J.K. RowlingThe Silkworm is a 2014 crime fiction novel by J.
K. Rowling, published under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith.
آوای فاخته نخستین رمان از مجموعه داستان‌های جنایی: «کورمورن استرایک» است که به گفتهٔ نویسنده، بیش از هفت جلد خواهد داشت.
موضوع رمان دربارهٔ: «کورمورن استرایک»؛ کهنه‌ سرباز زخم‌ خورده در جنگ افغانستان است، که به عنوان کارآگاه خصوصی، درگیر پروندهٔ خودکشی یک مانکن شده است.
کرم ابریشم، کتاب دوم از مجموعه است؛ که در سال 2014 میلادی منتشر شد؛ ادامه ی رمان آوای فاخته است.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I read this book MONTHS ago and never got around to writing a review . . .  Thanks for the reminder. Now that all of my friends are reading/have already read Book #3 I figured it was time to get off my butt.The Silkworm is the follow up to “Robert Galbraith’s” bestseller The Cuckoo’s Calling. The difference this time around is everyone knows the author is really J.K. Rowling. The leading male, Cormoran Strike, is a little different too
Now that all of my friends are reading/have already read Book #3 I figured it was time to get off my butt.The Silkworm is the follow up to “Robert Galbraith’s” bestseller The Cuckoo’s Calling.
Once Strike starts digging in to the potential whereabouts of the missing author he discovers an unpublished “fictional” tell-all that dishes so much even Kitty Kelley would cringe has been written and that the author is most definitely not missing at all .
I can’t tell you if you’ll like this book or not.
The only thing I’m not on board with is the potential developing relationship between Strike and Robin.
I think that she’s always been like this, not that she’s always demonstrated the other shades of her as a writer with Harry Potter, just as a grade school teacher wouldn't as a person—she’s an author with a taste for wry, satiric overtones, dark humor, twists on classic styles, and a nasty predilection for writing about bad people, very bad people.
I found Michael Fancourt to be the novel's most enjoyable character to read about, perhaps due to the fact that he represents the “famous writer,” something Rowling undoubtedly knows a lot about being.
The main characters, Cormoran and Robin, they're both incredibly well-structured.
Cormoran weans off Charlotte while Robin stands up for what she likes to do.The first one was about a model supposedly commiting suicide, although it turned out, her dropping off the balcony was far from a suicide.
What I liked about this one, was that it strayed off the formula of the first book.
This one is about an author gone missing.
There is a book involved, which that author wrote and after having his agent pass some of them along to superiors, he disappeared mysteriously.
(I was particularly impressed this time around with the ways that Robin/Matthew, Strike/Charlotte, and Leonora/Quine paralleled each other.)I’m really having to hold myself back from downloading the third audiobook and just going to town on it, but that would be dumb, because I would then have even longer to wait for book four, which is apparently going to be the longest in the series.
I know Strike is the main character, but I really feel like Robin should have equal amounts of POV-time.
“There are always loose ends in real life.”Preordered, arrived and read right away.I'm not sure if I liked this one better or the first one. Though a lot of really weird stuff happened in this book (or better in the book in this book) I enjoyed it a lot. And for my part, I did not know the murderer until the end.Well, this is J.K. Rowling so what is there left to say?Find more of my books on Instagram
Sjećam se kad je izašao Zov kukavice da se HP čeljad masovno dala u pljuvanje knjige, a Rowlingovoj su smjesta pripisali trenutnu književnu smrt.
Moram priznati da je i mene iznenadila činjenicom da je odlučila napisati krimić ali baš zbog toga mi je još više porasla u očima, jer malo je danas pisaca koji se usude probati nešto drugo; obično ogromna većina ostaje vjerna žanru kojim su se proslavili.
Jako mi drago da J.K ne spada u tu grupu, nego da i dalje radi na sebi i istražuje svoj talent.Ovoga puta Cormoran i njegova asistentica Robin istražuju nestanak kontroverznog pisca.
3.5
An author decides to put out a tell all book bashing some of his fellow authors and even some of the women in his life.
His wife then contacts my lovely Strike to help her find him.
I'd have left his arse gone but what do I know?
Strike ends up finding his dead body and decides to stay on the case.I love Strike and Robin.
This team is just so much fun to read about.
I keep wanting them to hook up but then I don't want them to either.
I wouldn't mind Robin kicking her whiny boyfriends bum though.
Cormoran Strike's business is now better than afloat following his last high-profile case.
When the wife of a missing writer asks for his help to find him, Strike opts to take the case even though he probably won't get a fee from the seemingly down and out woman.
There's nothing ordinary about the writing, the story slowly unfolding while expertly crafting vivid characters and setting, creating a strong sense of place.
We learn so much more about Strike and Robin, too; what drives them and where that comes from.
I love these stories and this one had a fine ending.
Genuinely liked this book even more than the Cuckoo's Calling, which is saying something. Loved the initial dive into the main character's personal lives, loved the central mystery in this one, and honestly can't wait to keep reading this series. I am so pleasantly surprised and can't believe I waited this long to read them.Joe and I have been listening to these books together on our commute and it's been the perfect series for both of us to enjoy, and puzzle around who we think is behind the murders. It's been a great time. :)
El misterio dentro de ese ambiente es buenísimo debido a los personajes tan diferentes y con tantos secretos escondidos, al final encontrar a un asesino es solo una de las muchas cosas que descubrirás conforme avanza la trama.
Todos los grandes sospechosos, el gran autor Michael Fancourt, el dueño de la editorial Daniel Chard, el editor Jerry Waldgreve, la agente Liz Tassel y la esposa Leonora Quine son mas de lo que se ve a superficie y como alguien que adora ver psicología en personajes, descubrir todas sus capas fue toda una aventura.
It started out pretty slow-paced (the course of the investigation requiring many descriptive parts) and for a while there was a lot of random-sounding information, but once it picked up and I started connecting dots and making predictions (all of which turned out to be wrong; I royally suck at solving mysteries) I was totally HOOKED.The mystery was very intriguing (a missing author who leaves behind a manuscript with libelous depictions - maybe real secrets?
"Ha, ha, ha, thou entanglest thyself in thine own work like a silkworm, John Webster" ~ The White Devil Owen Quine was the man. He was the author who thought a day was wasted if he hadn't made his readers gag at least twice, according to Jerry. Owen Quine's books was simply gory and disgusting. His final book was a tribute to the equally gory and disgusting people in the publishing world, disguised as six prominent characters in the plot. Appropriate names, describing their secrets, was ascribe
His final book was a tribute to the equally gory and disgusting people in the publishing world, disguised as six prominent characters in the plot.
Classic Owen: dirty names and everyone with their bits out.”And then Quine titles the book  Bombyx mori, - the Latin name for a silkworm.All the 'villains' in his book were associated with the publishing house Roper Chard.
Instincts tells him to go for this one though ...Surprisingly, the actual main character is the notorious script of the non-published book,  Bombyx mori.
I remember reading somewhere that it was easy to tell that it was Rowling because her style came through - but I cannot see any similarities between this and Harry Potter at all.I will say, though, that the first two Strike books use a similar formula.
I think with The Silkworm, the process of Strike's interrogations was way better integrated with the action of the story.
With Cuckoo's, it just felt like a series of interviews (i.e. Now Strike goes here to talk to someone, then he goes here to talk to someone else, etc.).
There are a lot of extra details about the many of the characters and some of them are really important to the story but others are just important to making the characters seem like regular people you might meet on the street.I have enjoyed this series so far for a couple of reasons.
I don’t think I could read an entire book like that but it was cool to see snippets throughout the story.Seeing Robin and Strike’s relationship grow and how both of them have a way of telling the other exactly how it is no filter sometimes.
