https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58889.Sandry_s_Book
These books have gotten me through everything from trouble at school, to deaths in the family and have their own shelf in the hall.Personally, I rate these books on par with the Keladry series, but higher than the Alanna or Diane sets, and although it feels like they're aimed at a slightly younger audience, that allows a good progression through all of Tamora's works.
Start off with the four Circle books as a younger reader, after those read the Alanna four, go back to the next circle books, and then the Diane and Keladry sets, before finishing with the final two Circle books.
I like everything Pierce has written to some extent (haven't read the white tiger stuff yet), but it's always been this series (the Emelan universe) above all others.
Over Harry Potter, Hunger Games, whatever.This book especially is the one I've read the most over the years (probably in part because the rest of the extended series was slowly being published), and the one I always eventually went back to.
So I was super excited, after coming across the Mark Reads/Watches site, that he had read and like the Tortall books and was planning on reading the Emelan books as well.
A lovely story. I would have loved this as a child and it was still endearing as a well seasoned adult!
I also read it much faster than I normally would have.Sandry’s Book (also known as Magic in the Weaving) is the first book of the Circle of Magic series, which follows four kids who live the fictional land of Emelan, where magic is real.
This book also introduces us not only to the world, but to where the kids come from and how they all ended up at the Winding Circle temple, a place where they can learn to use their magic.
It’s sort of a magic school novel in that way, but Winding Circle isn’t as much a school as it is a retreat from the world.Speaking of the kids, they’re the best part of the book.
Sandry was never my favourite of the four young mages in this series - thread magic simply never seemed that interesting to a ten-year-old surrounded constantly by craft and textiles.
Sandry's magic is looking pretty tantalising right about now!I think this first quartet is aimed at a slightly younger audience than Tamora's other series, but that doesn't mean it isn't just as excellent.
The full-cast audio production is fantastic - I've become a little addicted, to be honest, and don't quite know what I'll do when I've made my way through all the Circle of Magic, Circle Opens and Wild Magic audiobooks...
It seems Full Cast Audio productions have ceased, which is hugely disappointing.
If I know anything about Tamora Pierce's writing, and after reading like 17 of her novels I hope I do, there's definitely going to be repercussions for each of these characters in the future.
Because the potential is there, the seeds are ripe, and Pierce is utterly qualified to make that harvest :DWhile I did enjoy the plot, writing, and characters in this novel, I have to admit I was more excited from what I was reading between the lines and predicting for future.
I hadn't reread these books since 2013 or 2014, apparently, but before that I used to read them yearly.
It's amazing how my reactions to things keep changing as I read the books over and over again, even though they're so deeply familiar.
I don't think these books are ever going to stop being deeply important to me, though.
In a way picking them apart and seeing more and more problems every time I reread is what MAKES them important.
So nice. Really excited to read the trouble/adventure the kids get into in the next book.
When her candle runs out, she is comforted by a glow in her embroidery.Daja survives a shipwreck by willing a supply box toward her.A petty thief, Briar is thrown in jail and tends to the moss he finds there.Tris is tormented at school, but her bullies find themselves threatened by wild winds.None of them have traditional forms of magic, but Niko Goldeneye believes they might have hidden powers.
The climax is "just" the children (view spoiler)[trying to survive being buried in an avalanche (hide spoiler)], but it was very stirring, and I was glad to find that the scope was kept personal.
Sandry, Briar, Tris, and Daja meet one another and find out about their unique abilities in this first installment of the wonderful Emelan universe.
They don't exactly get along.
But when their very lives are threatened, can they learn to work together to save themselves?
This is probably my fifth or sixth reread of the entire series.
I cannot express my love for these books enough.
Sandry is a spunky little noble with great big ideas about honor and protecting others.
Watching her explore her newfound magic with thread is incredible and I cannot recommend this book, and those that follow, enough.
Tamora Pierce was one of my favorite authors growing up and still remains one of my favorites today.
Tamora Pierce has had books with different POVs before but not to the extent it is here.
There are four main characters with four different POVs, each changing within a couple of pages.
If you've read enough reviews from me you may have noticed that constantly changing POVs are on my list of things I do not like in a book.
The world seemed interesting and the set-ups were fine but even for Tamora Pierce I couldn't make it very far.
Wait a minute, I don't think this review even has spoilers, because there is NOTHING TO SPOIL!When it comes to the Circle of Magic series, I thought I would give it another shot and read it in English this time since I was not at all impressed by how it was in Romanian.
kidding.Let's Rate This - 2.2 / 10Setting and Atmosphere - 2Plot - 3Main Characters - 4Secondary Characters - 1Antagonists - 1 Writing - 3Enjoyability - 2So yeah i don't think I'll continue the series, because hey, why would I waste time reading something I don't like.
I don't think this is good, exactly - but I love the ideas. That magic can be overlooked because it's part of something mundane is a great idea, and to take that a step further and show how magic can itself be treated like those mundane things is innovative and exciting, to the point where I actually don't mind that the entire novel is setup.
This is an AWESOME book. A tale of bravery, loyalty, friendship,sorrow, and magic. ( And mystery,too) I can't stop reading!! Try this book if you like mystery and magic.
I enjoyed learning about these four kids who are thrown together at a school.
Each of these kids had a past that wasn't sunshine and flowers.
The book was pretty evenly split between Sandry, Tris, Briar and Daja.
But I enjoyed all four of them and the friendship that bloomed between them.
I love that they have unique magic that is more targeted.
My favorite part of this book was probably Nico mentoring these kids.
He totally reminds me of Numair from Tortall and I LOVE THAT GUY!
Excited to see what these kids get up to next!
This book left me in such a happy mood. Loving the series ❤️
It's about her as well as her foster siblings - Daja (metals), Briar (plants), and Tris (weather) - as they come to the Winding Circle Temple to learn how to use their unique powers.
But when disaster threatens their new home, the quartet must find a way to save themselves and the only place where they feel like they belong.To be honest, I struggled with the first half of SANDRY'S BOOK.
Also, once all four students have arrived at Winding Circle, there's quite a bit of "head-hopping" from one POV character to another during the same scene.
Her parents and nurse are now dead so Niko delivers her to her uncle, Duke Vedris, who lives near the Winding Circle temple.
The duke is a widower, who's children are all grown, so it is decided that Sandry shall go to live at the Winding Circle temple with other children who have been sent there to study.We are also introduced to the other three members of the Circle of Magic, Daja, Briar, and Trisana.
He is saved when Niko offers to take him to Winding Circle instead of punishment.
Read by Tamora Pierce, Bruce Coville & Full Cast Audio(click for cast names)Length: 5.8 HoursListened at 1.8x SpeedIf you have not yet listened to a Full Cast Audio recording, you haven't yet heard audiobooks as they were meant to be.
Each character has his or her own voice actor, reading the lines of dialogue or thoughts as if they were in the story itself.
Following the voice credits there is a short interview of Tamora Pierce about the inspiration behind the Circle of Magic series.
Wonder no more!Click here for my review of the story itself.
Oh my goodness, this was a lovely introduction to the world of Emelan.
While this book lacks much of a central conflict, it is extremely rich in world-building and characters that I *immediately* related to (HI TRIS I LOVE YOU) and cheered for.
Watching Pierce allow her characters to stand up to bullies, use privilege in all the best ways, and have histories that impact their current lives & behaviors is just such a treat.
Pierce writes fantasy the way I wish more fantasy was written- it corrects wrongs, it draws characters in a million different shapes and colors and it just...
This series, Circle of Magic, centers on four young people who are just discovering the powerful magic they were born with.
They are brought together at Winding Circle, where they begin to learn to explore and control their talents -- and how to trust people, as well.What I really admired, beyond Pierce's excellent characters, was how carefully she has created the magic system that rules her world.
It's surprising how many fantasy writers build worlds that are run by magic, but never put any though into the rules that magic runs by -- or worse, create rules, and then blithely break them.
I'd had a hankering to re-read this for like a week, and I'm glad I did. I always forget how much I love this group of kids.
One of my very favorite books that I continually reread.
This is a story of four children, one boy and three girls, that have been “collected” and sent to school to be mages, learning to control the world through magic.
Part of this was that the three girl characters were similar enough in actions and in voice that it was hard to keep them distinct in the beginning.
I liked the story, but I don’t feel compelled to continue with the series.
Second, while I liked the full-cast audio version, it didn’t stand out to me.
Read for BookRiot.com's Read Harder Challenge 2018, fulfilling "The first book in a new-to-you YA or middle grade series".
It feels like more a long introduction to the characters and world than an actual novel.
They're all kids who have had a rough go in life, and that contributes to the book's slow pace.
World building was about average for YA Fantasy; it does assume you already have a grasp on the Fantasy genre.
The magic system seems neat, and I like the concept of the kids being all uniquely gifted and not fitting in with the everyday mages.
I'll definitely read the next book in the series, and I have a feeling it gets better from here on out.
*grabby hands* moar please
I remember loving these when I was a kid. After doing a reread of the Tortall series and finding it as amazing as I remembered, I figured I'd try these again too. I wasn't disappointed, but this book isn't as life changing as I remembered. I think it's really better suited for kids. That being said, I'm going to finish the series.
If you’d like to know more, you can read her Bio at http://www.tamora-pierce.com/bio.html .Story overview:Four children with three completely different backgrounds come together at a place known as Discipline Cottage.
And, finally, Briar, a young street boy and thief, who is given the name of a shrub due to his divinity with plant life.Under the supervision of Niklaren, and a few other magical users, the four children learn what it means to form unlikely bonds under abnormal circumstances.My thoughts:Tamora fans, please understand that I’m only saying how I honestly felt about this book.
I found this in my school library and was instantly captivated. This entire series is still my favorite of all of Tamora Pierce's work.
Reading (or rather listening to — the audiobook is pretty good!) that fighting and bickering and grudging-friend-making is actually really satisfying, and I ended up really liking all the characters (All I remember from the first time I read it is thinking Nico was a smug jerk and not being able to tell Lark and Rosethorn apart).I still think it's a bit odd that it's called Sandry's Book, though.
