https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/515324.Ashanti_to_Zulu
This is an ABC book of African culture. This book is for higher students and I read a different letter everyday to my students. This book talked about different tribes and communities and shared in only a paragraph, a major tradition that they do. This opened up discussion with my students on similarities and differences between the US and different African Cultures and more specifically how different African cultures can be.
Do you want to know why Sarafem always leans toward multicultural children's books?
Well, she thinks it all stems from the day in second grade when she found this book in the library and decided she wanted to be African, because being white was so frickin' boring.
Every day, she showed up at school making some sort of attempt to prove that she was an albino African who was just adopted into her painfully white family.
It fell down to her waist while she was playing on the jungle gym and she went from Ashanti to Masai in like two seconds.

This is ostensibly an alphabet book but it’s really a book about the many different people who live in various parts of Africa and it contains much information about the diverse cultures.
There’s a map at the end that shows the various places mentioned in the book that I enjoyed because I’m a sucker for maps.
I think most would love the pictures.
They do contain wonderful detail but from a purely aesthetic point of view I didn’t love them.
They really enhanced the information in the book though and I appreciated them; I just didn’t think they were beautiful, but I’ll bet many would disagree with me.
The gorgeous illustrations really made this book stand out for me.
So detailed, so evocative of African cultures, exhibiting a certain sense of timelessness.
Also, gotta love an ABC book that doesn't fudge on ANY of the letters.
Yes, thanks to the fabulous languages of Africa, we really do have a tribe named after every letter of the English alphabet!
I'm honestly not sure how much young kids (the usual audience for ABC books) would enjoy this telling as it definitely seems information-based in content, a bit scholarly albeit pleasantly written, no "story" or fun characters to follow.
However, I think it's a great way to expose them to other cultures and the illustrations alone are worth sharing.
This book was probably the most interesting A to Z book I ever came across. Each letter stands for a different African tribe or subculture, and each brief entry covers something special about the tribe and its culture. This is done only in a single paragraph, so don't expect any great depth, but each entry is also accompanied by a colorful illustration depicting the tribal traditions. Very enjoyable book to read to the young readers.
While the tribal traditions are wonderfully fascinating, it's important to understand that these are historical traditions, not necessarily currently the case in modern Africa.
If you just picture the Maasai the way they are portrayed in the book, then you don't know that many of them finish school and go away to college.
These sorts of books are why people treat African students at US colleges so backwards.
My own town still has some people living in tin shacks or at least did just a few years ago.A cool book, but, if you are using this in the classroom, don't forget to include information about modern African cities and so on.
One of my favorite kinds of picture book, an A-Z alphabet book. This Caldecott winner introduced the social life and customs of 26 African tribes. Pictures (excellent pastels, watercolors and acrylics) and the text were researched for accuracy. The text focuses on one aspect of life, pictures use that text and other information to show "families" and artifacts. The book is a good "starting point" resource on Africa. Pictures can be used to pic out things about culture that are not in the text.
Winner of the 1977 Caldecott Medal for illustration in children’s literature.Margaret Musgrove was born and raised in Connecticut, but she has lived and studied in Ghana.
She supplemented her own experience with extensive research to write this children’s book which explains some of the customs and traditions of various African tribal peoples.
In this work she examines 26 different tribes, across the African continent, from Ashanti to Zulu.Leo and Diane Dillon’s illustrations are simple magnificent.
In each portrait they not only illustrate the customs about which Musgrove writes, but they give a glimpse of more of the culture of that tribe.
This book is great. Book speaks diversity in the classroom. Gives children knowledge about another culture.
Ashanti to Zulu: African Traditions by Margaret Musgrove goes through the alphabet describing and explaining parts of the culture of people living in Africa.
I learned also about the Hausa men who pray five times a day to Allah for the letter H, and the letter C for Chagga which is a group of children of the same age and sex that grow up together.
I learned about the Dogon people who are farmers that live in Mali who dig stair steps in hillsides for farming.
The illustrations in this book were all drawn in earthy tones.
I would ask my students to list and draw different things from their culture in alphabetical order.
1977 Caldecott Winner: favorite illustration - I love the Baule page with the details on the clothing of the people and the beautiful, sorrowful face of the Queen.This ABC book presents a glimpse into 26 different cultures and customs from various African tribes.
I think it presents a fun and accessible way for kids to get the information without reading a more "traditional" text book.
The illustrations that accompany each page are beautiful, and the artists strove to not only include traditional elements, but also to show both an adult and a child as well as the dwellings in as many of the pages as possible, to help enhance the readers understanding.
I had read this Caldecott winner a number of years ago, and I was pleased to see that I still found it fascinating.
Visiting Africa is on my bucket list (although I recognize that I will obviously not be able to go to all parts of Africa), and I find the variety of cultures fascinating.
It might be interesting to learn how these cultures have adapted and changed in this modern world, if they have.
Both the text and illustrations were fascinating to me.
This text is longer, so my daughters and I read it over a 3 day period.
On the first page of text is says, “I have tried to introduce the reader to 26 African peoples be depicting a custom important to each.
Others are shared by many peoples, but all reflect African values or philosophies.” On each page there is a letter of the alphabet, a paragraph describing the word that starts with that letter, the pronunciation, and a beautiful picture.
This book talks about food, music, religion, animals, landforms, and other aspects of the African culture.
The informational text mixed with the beautiful pictures enables readers to learn a lot about African culture.

This is a curious book: an ostensible ABC's teaching tool that uses various tribes of Africa to pinpoint each letter of the alphabet. It's a creative idea, to be sure, and I could tell while reading the book that author Margaret Musgrove worked hard to make the information presented as interesting as possible while staying true to the facts. Kids who show a keen interest in the ways that various African tribes differ from each other might well find their answers in the pages of Ashanti to Zulu.
**** Caldecott Medal (1977) ****Interesting and informative Alphabet book featuring the different peoples of Africa. I found Q/Quimbande (keem-bahn'-deh) to be the most interesting. Apparently, they practice bigamy. "A wealthy Quimbande man can have many wives. Each wife lives with her children in a separate house in his compound... The man visits the houses of his different wives on different nights."
This book would make an interesting introduction for an elementary school class studying African culture. I would consider incorporating parts of it myself into a library program, though it might be a bit dry for a read-aloud. The illustrations are by the Dillons, who I recognize as major talents, but I will admit that I focused more on the text than the pictures.
This is probably the most interesting an details A-Z book I've read. I love to learn how languages evolve throughout times and the illustration pictures represent a great dialogue
Read as part of our history study
Ashanti to Zulu African Traditions by Margaret Musgrove is a historical fiction book.
This story talks about African American traditions through illustrations and goes into more detail about the illustrations underneath them.
Some of the information this story gives are the names of what certain people’s jobs are called.
I really liked how the story didn’t just have one main focus, it discussed many topics, which I think made it very well rounded and educational.
I would use this story to teach about African American traditions.
I think this story explained the African American culture very well.
Those special features range from their dress, what they eat, what they harvest, what kind of jewelry they wear, and any other aspect that is unique to their tribe!
Being able to learn about different cultures is something that I truly enjoy and that is what I was able to do while reading this book!
To be able to learn about the other tribes even though you may be focusing on just one.
Not only would you be teaching them the different aspects of each tribe but you would also be reiterating the alphabet even if the students are old enough to have memorized them.
• 1977 Caldecott Winner •This book confused me at first because I figured since it's an ABC book it's for small children, however immediately when reading it, it's obvious this isn't a book for little kids because the reading level is higher.
The art isn't to my taste but it's well done.
However, I wonder if by forcing the traditions into an ABC format, how much other interesting information was lost?
Maybe there was two interesting "G" tribes - that were more interesting than another letter - but one had to be left out because the ABC structure forces a choice.
This is an ABC book that blends aesthetic and admiralty, featuring twenty-six different illustrations of native African peoples.
It talked about various tribes and communities within the African culture, providing an informative yet interesting look into their habits.
The illustrations offered extra detail not said in the text, while using safari toned colors.
Each person in the book has a different look to them and loads of texture and contour which adds a more real feeling to it.
This book is a gateway for students to learn about African tribes and introduced to culture while not having to read a traditional textbook.
Each letter of the alphabet discusses a different tribe or African nationality and briefly teaches of a custom or lifestyle.Ages: 8 - 12Cleanliness: There are two pictures showing women's breasts (one has her fully exposed - illustration for the letter K, one she is half covered).
Mentions such cultural customs as smoking a pipe, dancing, chants, priests, multiple wives and wine.
The word "sex" is used to mean gender.#geography #africa #culture**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Summary: The book teaches about different African communities and tribes.
It is an ABC book so each letter represents a different tribe; then the following paragraph talks about that community/tribe.Evaluation: The book is a great book for higher level students who are curious about African culture.
It does a great job covering details of each tribe/ community.
Teaching Ideas: The book can be used to teach students about different cultures.
It can also be used to help students for a research project.
It can also be used to do a compare and contrast activity between African culture and a culture of teachers choice.
Brief ReviewThis nonfiction book describes a different African tradition, people, or custom associated with each letter of the alphabet.
Every illustration is loaded with information while still being visually pleasing.Content AreasThis book could be used to teach students about traditional African culture.
This book could be used as an introduction into traditional African art.
I think this activity could be used to show that differences between people should be celebrated and valued.Comprehension QuestionsDescribe some of the traditions that are described in the book.
Are there any people in America that are nomadic?
A-B-C's of African Traditions; Very cool facts and traditions of African culture; also includes a map at the end of the book to show off each country in the continent; same illustrator of 'Why Mosquitoes buzz in people's ears'1977 Caldecott Winner
enlightening.
This would be a great story to open up the conversation about differences in culture with children.
