https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113429.No_One_Belongs_Here_More_Than_You
a friend I adore more than newborn puppies and tiny rabbits hopping in fields of grass, and she said, "MIRANDA JULY!
Like something you'd find in your grandmother's junk drawer.
The one that's filled with pearl buttons, and half knitted doilies, and old black and white photos with a younger version of your grandmother, and complete strangers.
It would break your heart if you asked, and your Grandmother said, "Oh, look at that.
Like opening your grandmother's junk drawer and finding nail clippers.
not the kind that break your nails when you try to use them.
I can't even recall the last time I was this appalled by a short story collection.I started off my reading experience thinking this would follow the usual way of having no real structure to the stories but still including great quotes to ponder.
Needless to say, I didn't even bother to complete the rest of the stories because I don't despise morality.* I usually note at the end of my reviews that I'm an Amazon Affiliate, and if you're interested in buying the book I reviewed you can go through my link so that I'll make a small commission.
They yell: "She's the next Lorrie Moore!" or "She's like those people who try to imitate Lorrie Moore and miss what's really good about her!" Sometimes they've actually read one of her stories or seen her movie, but sometimes they just resent her fame or adore her blog.
And stories like "The Shared Patio" and "The Swim Team" (the latter of which people go all kinds of crazy for) feel unsatisfyingly incomplete -- they set something up but don't go places with it.
"Ten True Things" and "Something That Needs Nothing" reminded me so much of my own stories (thematically and prose-ishly) that it was almost hard to read them.
In short, I need to read something that will convince me that not everyone is as fucked-up and depressing as the characters presented in Miranda July's short story collection, alternately titled, Worship Me, You Hipster Idiots, For I Am Your God. I don't want to give the impression that the writing is bad.
Because if you read more than three stories in a row, you start to get this very odd sensation that you will be alone and unhappy for the rest of your life, and it is not pleasant.
This always makes me feel sad and thirsty.
These feelings probably resolve themselves logically when there is milk in the boob.
But all the narrators would say things like, “After my boyfriend was incredibly mean to me, I lay there and decided to become a dog robot.
I wonder whether they make steel bones for dog robots.” Funny the first time, because you know no one ever actually “decides” or “thinks” that and it's just an amusing function of the authorial voice, but incredibly grating the forty-seven-thousandth time because by then you realize you're on page 200 and no one in this book has “decided” or “thought” anything at all.
No one belongs here more than you. Stories, Miranda Julyتاریخ نخستین خوانش: شانزدهم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: هیچکس مثل تو مال اینجا نیست؛ نویسنده: میراندا جولای؛ مترجم: فرزانه سالمی؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1388، شابک: 9789643626167؛ مجموعه هفت داستان کوتاه: تیم شنا، پسر لم کین؛ پاسیو مشترک؛ مرد روی پله ها؛ این آدم؛ دلخوشی من؛ و ماه گرفتگیا. شربیانی
No one belongs here more than you. Stories, Miranda Julyتاریخ نخستین خوانش: شانزدهم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: هیچ‌کس مثل تو مال این‌جا نیست؛ نویسنده: میراندا جولای؛ مترجم: فرزانه سالمی؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1388، شابک: 9789643626167؛ مجموعه هفت داستان کوتاه: تیم شنا، پسر لم‌ کین؛ پاسیو مشترک؛ مرد روی پله‌ ها؛ این آدم؛ دلخوشی من؛ و ماه گرفتگیا. شربیانی
This book was perplexingly good.
The best adjective I can come up with for these stories is sharp.
Not sharp like "clever" or whatever, but sharp like sharp, like a knife or thorns or something that actually cuts you.
The stories all hurt, really, which is why I say perplexingly good.
"Something That Needs Nothing" is easily the best story in the book, and it nearly made me howl.
"How to Read Stories to Children" is fantastic as well.
I don't think I could handle being your friend, but I'll def read anything you write.
Then she said “An aardvark is presumed dead and five meerkats are currently unaccounted for”.
Miranda July would have loved the strange, poignant appearance of an aardvark in the hourly BBC news reports; it was at the same time very funny and intensely sad.
Which is what Miranda July is all about in her lovely film and weird but splendid novel.So I can enthusiastically recommend her film Me and You and Everyone we Know, and also her novel The First Bad Man. But not these short stories.
The BBC said the aardvark’s name was Misha.
The zoo will not be releasing the names of the missing meerkats until relatives have been informed.Misha 2008-2017 RIP
I was torn between wanting to punch her writing in the throat, and loving it to shreds.
I've changed my rating a million times and probably forever will.
Sometimes I feel July is pretentious, other times I get excited that I'm not the only person in the world that is so god damned weird.
I've never really let people read my writing because I've always been worried that people would worry about my state of sanity.
Yet reading July's work and seeing her embrace her eccentricity was comforting.
But at the same time, I do really want to punch her sometimes.
Most of the time.
If you look in the dictionary under the word "quirky", you will find the definition of that word; also, Miranda July.A few years ago I read The First Bad Man, which both delighted and totally weirded me out.
But I guess I wasn't weirded out so much as to turn me off the idea of reading her short story collection.It think it's because I loved her short story, Roy Spivey*.
And I kept thinking, regardless of who was narrating, that it was Miranda July the whole time.
Miranda July's radio pieces are excellent.
She tells her off-beat and romantic or oddly sinister stories, dramatizes quirks as real characters and situations, and enchants you with her squeaky little voice.
I thought her movie was pretty good too, although right on the edge of being twee and pretentious.
And Miranda July's fancies just can't take very much weight.
Pretty but ephemeral.
It is inexorably linear, permanent as acid-free paper, and stored in a physical object that must be enshrined in a way that film and radio, ultimately only memories of light and sound, are not.
These little vignettes can't take it.
I swear to Christ if I read one more slim selfsatisfied volume of "witty" short fiction where everybody talks like a fucking Grad Student I'm going to hit myself in the brain with a ballpeen hammer until I'm illiterate.
Missed ConnectionAuthor exorcises demons as characters search for loveby Avishay ArtsyEverybody gets lonely sometimes, and Miranda July crams as many forms of loneliness she can think of in her first collection of stories.
One woman teaches the elderly inhabitants of her small town to swim by having them crawl across her apartment floor, their faces submerged in bowls of water.
And in their search for connection, they somehow manage to scratch out a place of their own.No One Belongs Here More Than You: Stories by Miranda July (Scribner: 2007), 205 pages.
It seems to me that July, as author, has fallen in love with listening to that voice (herself?) talk.What makes this a terrible collection to my sensibility is the lack of love for her characters and especially the narrators.
Some may claim that she's rendering irony as Saunders (another blurber on the book's cover) does; which is the current defense against any pejorative criticism.
July's voice is trying too hard to be hip, but ends up tone deaf, and, being charitable, is inadvertently full of character assassinations.
I was worried they'd be too whimsical, but actually the feeling I get while reading is sort of of the opposite -- bored and oppressed and kind of grossed out and tired but not in an interesting way.I'll try some more, and hopefully come around to it!***It took me a minute to get into this, but I did wind up liking it.
I don't think I was that crazy about most of the other ones, though I guess they had their moments.At first I didn't like them because sometimes when stories are all kind of weird and unstructured like this they feel sloppy to me, like the person just sat down and wrote whatever came out of her.
Expelling the Dust'The Man on the Stairs' (book club read)The Man on the Stairs is an extended snapshot in a woman's life, in which a familiar (July gives it a tired, worn out feeling, like the T-shirt the woman is wearing, doubtless ugly and shapeless, unloved, a stultifying comfort-zone) sequence of introspection culminates in an encounter that takes on a mythical (as a focus for culturally cultivated fears and a seed of exasperated, unheroic (profoundly female) courage) and symbolic (of the emotional subjugation of women) resonance.
3,5*, αρχικά θα έπαιρνε 5* γιατι τα πρώτα διηγήματα με ενθουσίασαν αλλά στην πορεία άρχισε να επαναλαμβάνεται το ιδιο μοτίβο. Εντυπωσιακή γραφή πάντως, περιμενω να διαβάσω και το μυθιστόρημα της. #readathon17 [7/26 and 4/14 female writers] ~ [ένα βιβλίο διηγημάτων]https://www.instagram.com/p/BSIeK21Aw...
A quirky, lovely quick read- definitely recommended.* July is great at mimicing on paper the ramblings inside a person's head, so much of which is absurd or silly, but which occasionally stumbles onto something profound and true.
(As a result, you can almost hear July speaking through her characters, a sort of series of monologues.
I'm a sucker for this; it reminds me of Spalding Grey, or Italo Calvino.) Favorites were: 'This Person", "Something that Needs Nothing", and "The Boy from Lam Kien."* If you don't have issue with occasional 'alternative' sexual content.
this is because i hate when people have only read like the first 100 pgs of like "gravity's rainbow" or "infinite jest" and because they have taken all of the 2 hours it takes to read that they think it qualifies them to then pass judgement on the whole book which took me a good forty hours to read, and that i loved.
maybe it was the way the stories were read - i got the book on cd - or maybe it was the way every character was the same, or maybe it was the way it reminded me of "juno".
I have no idea if Miranda July -- in achieving something that looks spontaneous -- wrote these pieces like Mozart, in one stroke of the pen perfectly formed, or if she laboriously wrote and rewrote like Beethoven until each sentence followed the next perfectly to achieve a hard-won sense of spontaneity.
I'm more interested in Pandora's box than a Jack-in-the-Box. As I read, I did feel surprised and eventually amazed, not so much by the style and content, but by how successfully July seduced me and wormed her way into my resistant heart.
This is a book filled with yearning and wonder at the world, with a sense of innocent curiosity that is almost childlike yet tinged with the painfulness of adult experience.
Icky ew. My housemate recommended this with 'this is so sweet, it will restore your faith in humanity'. I am now reconsidering how much I like my housemate, and will never rely on her for a character reference. I've read about half of the short stories in this book, and I don't want to read any more. Every short story is a first-person narrative from someone who is desperate, odd, lonely, delusional, and slightly creepy. From the person so in love with her neighbour that she leans her head on h
My housemate recommended this with 'this is so sweet, it will restore your faith in humanity'.
I am now reconsidering how much I like my housemate, and will never rely on her for a character reference.
I've read about half of the short stories in this book, and I don't want to read any more.
Every short story is a first-person narrative from someone who is desperate, odd, lonely, delusional, and slightly creepy.
çağdaş amerikalı kadın yazarlar çok acayip yazıyorlar. miranda july modern insanın trajedisini öyle anlarla, öyle duygularla, öyle nüanslarla anlatıyor ki bazen işte ben de aynı böyle hissederdim diye düşünüp duruyor insan. bir ayrıntı zenginliği. garip hayatlar, garip kahramanlar, garip konular ama bir o kadar da tanıdık.kitabın bonusu şu hayatta ilk patronum olmuş inci asena'nın mükemmel çevirisiydi.kitap üzerine notos'ta yazdığım yazı: http://tembelveyazar.blogspot.com.tr/...
Birbirinden ilginç karakterleri ve ilişkileri barındıran 16 öykülük bir kitaptı Hiç Kimse Buraya Senin Kadar Ait Değil.
Yazar genel olarak yalnız, kırılgan karakterleri ve o karakterlerin kendilerini sevdirmek için düştükleri durumları işlemiş.
Karakterlerin hissettiklerini öykü bittikten sonra bile düşünmeye devam ediyorsunuz.Okuduğum en tuhaf öykü kitaplarından birisiydi, Miranda July olayları sıra dışı bir üslup ile ele almış.
Bazı öyküleri çok sevmekle birlikte bazılarının içine giremedim.
Benim için ortalama bir kitap olarak kaldı.
'Birisinden bir şey istemek zorunda kalmak her zaman korkunç.
Boya gibi, hiçbir şeye ihtiyaç duymayan bir şey olmayı diliyoruz.
Ama boya bile yeniden boyanmak ister.'
The sooner you say, It’s so beautiful here, the quicker you can say, Wow, I’m getting overheated.”I am hardly doing her justice.
"Making Love in 2003" is perhaps the most taut of the longer stories, and July hilariously introduces the children's fantasy writer Madeleine L'Engle as one of her characters (it's not really her, and L'Engle herself actually just left our swiftly tilting planet in 2007).The people populating these stories are flawed and fabulous.
Stab until the pillow is gone and you are just stabbing the earth again and again, as if you want to kill it for continuing to spin, as if you are getting revenge for having to live on this planet day after day, alone.”
When I first heard about Miranda July from hipsters (and hipster-haters) I wanted nothing to do with her, assuming she overwrites like Diablo Cody.
Loved a little story she just wrote for The New Yorker too.
The only writer she reminds me of just a wee bit is Mary Gaitskill (whom I LOVE).
Gaitskill is the woman reporting, July is a curious girl.
These two ladies also turn a mean phrase and I think they're absolutely matched - I wouldn't be able to tell you who I like better.
Loved the last story too, but I can't comment on why because it could spoil some of it.
This collection of short stories was so good! Miranda July manages to capture, over and over again, all the awkward, desperate, uncomfortable beauty of trying to be a human being in a world you don’t understand. With the speed of a singular sentence, she could both inflate and break my heart. This was really great stuff.
July's characters are total weirdos. Unapologetically so but also guys, like, calm down.
On the first really hot day of summer '07 in New York, I lied down to read Miranda July's "No One Belongs Here More Than You." The collection of short stories reads very quickly; after two hours alone in my room I had read through more than half.
Miranda July's storys are punctuated with the lost and the lonely and the slightly perverse.
Shortly after I finished July's book, New York Magazine ran a piece about her with the focus being July as a point of contension in the indie world.
Unbelievable in the sense that they don't seem like real people that the rest of us know.
Or maybe it's the fact that I'm a real person and prefer to read about characters who I can even relate to in the most minor way.
But you know, there are authors out there who can bring out emotional content and also write about people who in some way resemble human beings in their thoughts and choices.
Tied to the loneliness and sadness I felt reading these stories was also a great deal of annoyance at these characters who were just too dull and strange to be real.
خيلي صريح تنهايي زن هايي رو به تصوير ميكشه كه به جاي اينكه دنبال گمشده اي در خودشون باشن در اطراف دنبال اون ميگردن ولي هميشه با آدم ها و چيزهايي زندگي ميكنن كه مال خودشون نيست!زن هايي كه سعي ميكنن عينك خوش بيني بزنن و خودشونو خوشبخت جلوه بدن اما هيچوقت راهي براي جدايي ازين بيغوله ندارن.
اوايل كتاب زنايي هستند كه سعي ميكنن روي تنهايي كه انگار واسشون زخمه مرهم بذارن با پيدا كردن يه سري آدما كه حتي كوتاه مال اونا باشن مثل اون پسربچه مثل مرد صرعي،اما بعد نشون ميده اين حس با حضور يك به اصطلاح يار بهتر نميشه و باز حس نااميدي ادامه داره و خوشبختي توهمي بيش نيست...
