https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351836.Hindu_View_of_Life
But, if there is not a unity of spirit binding its different expressions and linking up the different periods of its history into one organic whole, it will not be possible to account for the achievements of Hinduism.” To augment this he adds that though people of different races and cultures have been coming to India from centuries, Hinduism has not only maintained its supremacy but also has maintained its course unbroken, even if at times slow or static, all the while standing the strain of millenniums of spiritual thought and experience.
So, expecting to get anything other than a glimpse of it from this slim book, that comprises of only four of Radhakrishnan's lectures delivered in 1926 at Manchester college Oxford, would have resulted in disappointment.
(If someone reads this in a class, as a backbencher I would definitely go to sleep.) It is no introduction to the Hinduism, rather a (probably little biased) presentation of the "goodness and superiority" of Hindu way of life.
Providing a bit non-sequential historical context and evolution of the Hindu thoughts, Radhakrishnan tries to touch upon several facets of Hinduism in these short essays.
I would love to read his more scholarly works on Hindu philosophy.
A good introductory level book that explains the Hindu perspective of life.
The book must also be commended for dealing with some of the 'riddles' within Hinduism.
The only bit that threw me off was Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan buying into the idea that there is somehow a spectrum of devotion, from the savage ways of worship of the tribal, to the sophisticated Advaita meditation on the formless divine.
The question of sophistication aside, this idea reeks too much of the monotheistic worldview which takes a very skewed idea of progression in religion; animism -> polytheism-> monotheism.
I guess our second president can't be faulted for taking this view for he was also a product of his times.
The book has a handful of chapters that cover topics such as: religious experience, its nature and content, conflict of religions, the Hindu attitude and Hindu dharma.
In the biting words of Swift, “We have enough religion to hate one another but not enough to love one another.” The more religious we grow the more tolerant of diversity shall we become.”•	"Marriage is not the end of the struggle it is but the beginning of a strenuous life where we attempt to realise a larger ideal by subordinating our private interest and inclination.
I had decent hopes from this book, authored by one of India's foremost scholars and a former president.
In India, his birthday is celebrated as "Teacher's Day" in his honor.This book is actually a compilation of lectures he delivered at Manchester College in 1926.The book is a good summary of some aspects of Indian philosophy, not that it is comprehensive.
The book contains good advice here and there, but the bad overwhelmingly outweighs the good.What irked me the most was that the author is an apologist for the caste system in India.
Essentially, just that Hinduism relies on personal experience more than scriptural authority as the basis of its belief system, and that this perspective leads Hindus to a non-exclusivist approach.
Of course, not the caste system as it currently exists, but a version of it which may have existed at some point, and still exists in the descriptive sense in all societies.Let me elaborate: The author claims that the caste system, and the other social rigidities of Hindu culture arose from the need to maintain peace in a region with many different ethnic groups migrating in and out.
One of the best books ever written about Hinduism.
However, I think this is one of the best hand book of Hinduism.
In the obvious turn of events through the flow of time, the followers of the religion ended up caring only about this metaphoric crap and ignored all abstract values.(And all the so-called religious gatekeepers, who are just the pigs and are born just to exploit the masses by literally feeding this crap) Dr.S.R peels the outer layers of religious onion and brings out the beautiful core, which is a coherent and rational entity which many may not have seen.
This book was published first time in 1927.
The source for much of Tharoor's Why I am a Hindu, Dr. Radhakrishnan explains the eclecticism of Hinduism with a very scholarly take on it. There are very disturbing parts in it, though - on women and caste, in particular. And so continues my education on a religion I was born into, and my search for a convincing liberal take on it.
This is my first book which comments on the Hindu way of living.
When a former President of India is an author of a book, You have to read it.
He has very successfully described the transition of Hindu religion over the centuries.
How Hinduism has succeeded in gathering thousands of tribes and communities as followers.
How the religion has sustained so far and it doesn't look like it will perish in near future.
What makes Hinduism the most tolerant religion.
And such endless questions have been answered in this book.
A must read for every Hindu and for those who want to know about this diverse religion.
معلوم ہوا کہ کسی بھی مذہب کے متکلم کا کام یہی ہوتا ہے کہ وہ اپنے دور کے علم کے ذریعے اپنے مذہب کو ای
Dr. Radhakrishnan explores the mysticism of all the religions and gives a beautiful work about the philosophy of Hinduism. A must read book for people of all sects. If you want to understand religion then this is the text for you! :-)
Good to get started reading books written by the great philosopher.
I read this book at a time when I was exasperated with what seemed like a life without roots.
In essence, the book will tell you that a person's Hindu-ness is not a geographical accident or their allegiance to cow-worshipping statutes, or whether one invites a Brahmin for a yagna 'party'.
Reading this would also help one compare Dharma with the mess that we perpetuate these days in the name of Hindutva.
There are instances when Radhakrishnan supports Brahminism, insisting that the high-minded Hindu must be protected from the vagaries of routine life.
A must read for all those who wish to get a broad insight of Hinduism.the book talks about the spiritual,historical,geographical,economical and political aspects of Hinduism.The author beautifully put forward the reason,validity and importance of caste system and the structure of society.book also gives a brief idea about the theory of rebirth,stages of life,purpose and the idea of spirit.A Hindu view of life can modify uniformity with unity amidst the society.In the present context it is very important for us to understand our great culture,it's history,it's learning and carry this lamp of spiritual knowledge to the far reaching lands.
Dr. Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan packs a power punch in this small package just 95 pages long. For anyone looking to get introduced to Hinduism or who wants to rediscover it I would say this is the best book to start that journey...".....Hinduism is a movement, not a position; a process not a result;a growing tradition, not a fixed reveleation.Its past history encourages us to believe that it will be found equal to any emergency that the future may throw up, whether in the field of thought or history....."
Educational.
This is my first Dr.Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan book.
The key highlights of the book are the explanations on how different belief systems integrated in India, the evolution of worship from idols to pure consciousness, the historical background behind the origin of caste system and its use to the Indian society.
Overall, this book is a classical yet honest interpretation of Sanathana Dharma from a man who had a modern outlook on life.
This book is well written and has numerous references from other religions and cultures, mostly western, to make it a comfortable read for all. There was a short section in the final chapters that discussed the scientific merits of eugenics. But one needs to remember it was written in a vastly different time. That being said, it is a short part of his essay and is seem to be reversed with the next page.
The ancient hindu philosophy explained by one of its foremost modern scholar , Dr. S.Radhakrishanan. Although the simple minded like myself might not get all of it in first time, but still reading this is an enlightening experience.
one of the finest explanations of intricate Indian philosophy....
This book is deep. It talks about some of the principles of hindu religion, more on the philosophical terms. It is a good read
Wonderful explanation of ethical Hinduism.
Needs to be read over and over again. Too much information to process in just one reading.
