https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/674640.Twig
"Honestly, Elf!"Twig is a city girl living in what they call a simpler time--the iceman comes in a horse-drawn buggy to deliver the ice to her apartment building, and everyone listens to the radio.
At any rate, the fairy house has a river running past it (hose-water), a stick-of-gum bridge, and a broom in a corner, made from a bird's feather.Mrs. Sparrow, who lives in the backyard's one large tree, gets off her eggs to search for her flyaway husband, pitying Twig, who, she thinks, doesn't have much chance of seeing a fairy--not in the city.
Elf brings home some fantastic surprises, including a little set of wings that allows Twig to fly above her apartment house without Sparrow or the Mrs. having to take her up.
Elf relates that experience to Twig, and it's nothing like the "Elves and the Shoemaker" retread she expects; the story ran off the rails weirdly, everything going wrong and spoiling the possibility for a happy ending.
It's surprising and bittersweet when Twig sets the table, straightens up the house, and the story restarts from just before Elf brought Chummie, only this time, he doesn't.
I was lured by the cover, and the possibility that this child was named by the Palin parents, but didn't have the attention span to finish it. There was too much dialogue, an Elf, and ultimately just too many pages (152).
While I will quibble with some stylistic issues in this book, it is absolutely wholesome and terribly sweet. This may be a better independent read than read aloud. The stylistic issues may not have bothered me so much if it were not being read aloud.
Twig lives in a little apartment in urban Chicago during the 1920s.
But the little fenced- and walled-in slab of dirt in the behind the building is a wonderland for Twig.
Gum wrappers, tomato cans, and the nest of sparrows are just a few of the mundane objects that become extraordinary when a little elf (escaped from a library book) visits Twig's backyard.We have read this book aloud to our kids three times already (and encores are rare around here), and they still ask to hear it again.
Hands down, this is the cutest book I have ever read. Might have cried reading the last two chapters out loud to the kids. (And it's not even sad...I just loved it that much.)
Talk about nostalgia. This was precious and brought back so many memories of similar afternoons I spent as a child. I mean how can you go wrong with an elf that was found leaving the public library with a book in his hand, a book about magic...
I love this book. It was out of print for many years. I had an old copy and finally (after many emails to family and searching) found this 60th Anniversary Edition. I was so glad to have another copy to share with younger relatives.
This is just a beautiful book. I think a bit auto-biographical. Without ruining the end it's the story of a poor urban girl's imaginings one Saturday. Illustrations by the author always a plus. A fun read-aloud with child-like banter between the 2 main characters. A fun intro to fairies.
I remember LOVING this as a little girl. Planning on reading it to my kids again! A fairy living in a tomato can...can you beat that?
Sometimes it felt a bit too long, but it worked out in the end.
Utterly charming.
This was the first book I ever took out of the Library by myself...I was in 4th grade..Loved this book so much as a child I later found it on Ebay and now I have it again.
This was a slow-paced book with hints of sexism, but nothing terribly offensive. The characters were "Sparrow" & "Mrs. Sparrow" instead of "Mr. Sparrow & Mrs. Sparrow," and the queen had to darn the magician's jacket just because she's a woman, even though she's THE QUEEN.My husband thought it was overly verbose, which I suppose it was.I felt it has just the right amount of magic & action to keep our 3-year-old interested...barely.Not bad, but not that good either.
I missed this one when I was little. A friend loved it and thought I would too. I liked the premise, but didn't like the verbosity. I'm not convinced I would have liked it even as a child.
...wanted this book to be more than it was...the illustrations were great...a definite sign of the times that are no more...imagination is & remains such a great gift...
Read to kids
This is one of my favorite childhood books!
A brilliant read for little kids!!!
Of all the books that have been read to me at an early age and those in which I picked up as an adult and read to my students, Twig by Elizabeth Orton Jones is my all time favorite!
Elizabeth Orton Jones brought her little character Twig alive to me.
Each of the story's characters became alive to me.
I wanted to read the book myself after Miss Love our wonderful librarian finished reading it aloud.
The book has been reprinted, the illustrations and the words are the same.
Thank you Elizabeth Orton Jones!
--(Not read yet, just thoughts)After looking at a copy of the anniversary edition from interloan library, I'm still indecisive on whether to get a physical copy or Kindle (full color) copy. The eBook costs the same. The physical book is a little odd shape though, it is more square than not and taller than some of my read alouds, like The Milly-Molly-Mandy Storybook and Teddy Robinson Storybook, The but not quite as tall as others like our early chapter books in Fancy Nancy: Nancy Clancy, Super Sleuth and Amelia Bedelia Means Business.
A poor girl with a huge imagination falls into a world with a beautiful Queen fairy, birds, cat, an elf and a magician as her closet friends.
She lives with elf in a tomato can that she had prepared before she was shrunk.
Elf is from a book so Twig has to teach him things.
She eventually finds out where she is and how her imagination can bring such happiness!Elf is my favorite character because he is a fun little guy that wants to make Twig happy.
The books takes you into the imagination of a little girl living in a fourth floor apartment that disappears for hours making her own fun in the grassless backyard of the apartment complex.
I can't quite figure out when the story takes place because Twig's father is a taxi driver, but an ice wagon horse is a primary figure in Twig's world.
No matter when it was, I loved it.
I love how children used to have to make their own fun with talking birds, elves, and fairies--a little different than sitting in front of a screen for hours on end.
A very sweet little fairy tale.
A quick read for an adult, and probably a good read-aloud book for young children who are just ready for short chapter books.
A little girl gets to shrink down to fairy-size and have an adventure with an elf and a couple of fairies and a few animals.
The illustrations are lovely, too.My daughter pulled this off the shelf at the thrift store (she's a toddler and she loves books but can't read yet), and it was 50% off books that day, so I bought it.
i really had high hopes for this book.
jo bought it for me for christmas and it was such a sweet treat.
a book that shared my family nickname.
the context is really sweet, a little girl meets a little elf who makes her small as well and she gets to have a friendship with a sparrow and meet the fairy queen.
but sadly it was actually really boring and quite random.
it did have some very sweet illustrations, but that's about all that i can really recommend.
i'm still going to love having it on my bookshelf though.
a book called twig.
All this time I thought it was Pippi Longstocking who got me completely hooked on reading......it may just have been Twig, though. I had forgotten about Twig, but it all came back when I spotted a copy at my favorite 2nd hand store.It is an absolute delight. Twig is kind of an assertive little fusspot. I'm sure that was perfect for seven-year-old me!The illustrations are charmingly detailed. I especially love the soupcan house.Aah nostalgia. I don't go in for it much. But Twig is a different story.
This was originally given to me as a joke, as my last name is Twiggs. As I read it though, I found myself in a world of magic and imagination that took me back to my childhood. I absolutely love this book. That being said, I found quite a lot of oddly specific parallels between this book and my own life, enough that my cousin legitimately thought someone was following me around and turning my life into a fantasy story. The weirdest thing is that this book was written way before I was born.
My husband gave me this one for Christmas as it was one of my childhood favorites. I especially loved the way that when the little fairies speak, the font used is small. Anyway, that thrilled me when I was young. Somehow, the book doesn't translate that well for me as an adult. Way too long ago I guess. Kids should still like it though.
Hewan's review: I want to give it 100 stars. I loved it so much because it's about fairies and elves and birds and humans turning into little things. The Fairy Queen was my favorite. That's all.I liked this story, it was charming and fun, but it wasn't a favorite for me.
If your kids like fairies, imagination, and exploring this story will be a hit. It all takes place in the backyard of little Twig and it couldn't be a sweeter, more delightful example of turning the everyday into the extraordinary.
