https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123516.Sackett
That said: it’s easy to see why they were combined to make a TV-movie / mini-series (The Sacketts, 1979), since it isn’t too difficult to pull the two stories together (there are some recurring characters and at least one, Cap Rountree, who features (somewhat) prominently throughout)."Are you the Sackett who killed Bigelow?"“He wasn't much good with a bottom deal.""Nor with a gun, I guess.""He was advised."I enjoyed Sackett’s Tell Sackett as a protagonist, more so than Tyrel Sackett of Daybreakers.
Or didn't feel that he was terribly attached to the task (or the town), maybe?Interestingly, I think I was actually more bothered that this had the weakest of some of the secondary concerns I've come to expect from L'Amour.
I've come to expect that strong subtext of equality and manly virtue being the great equalizer and missed it in this story.Still, weakest or not, it didn't suck and I still stayed up an extra hour too late last night just to finish it...
Being a wanderer Tell decides it is time to hit the trail again.
Tell decides maybe it is time to settle down.
As mentioned in the book when people live in a society where there is a sheriff, court and judge they can leave the enforcement of laws to others.
Tell is a strong moral character and carries a copy of a legal book that he tries to read and learn from but he is quick to fight when pushed.
There was a movie based on this book and The Daybreakers starring Sam Elliott as Tell Sacket.Louis L'Amour novels may never win a Pulitzer but they are a fun read and for me nostalgic.
My grandfather was the biggest Louis L'Amour fan I've ever heard of.
I must say that for my first Louis L'Amour book I was pleasantly surprised.
What I loved most, however, was the characters and how you can feel L'Amour's passion for the old west through his writing.
He's a more intellectual man than some of his fellow Sacketts.
He loves his family and would do almost anything for them.
I can't wait to get more involved in the Sackett family history with which L'Amour weaves subtle intricacies that keep the reader wanting more.
Drifter Tom Sackett comes home, wishing to settle down. He has, however, shot one of the notorious Bigelow brothers, and they are bent on revenge. He moves on and finds gold while spending time in a cave. Gold brings more attention to him, including that from the Bigelows. Typical of Lamour’s books a showdown ensues. This book is full of action as Lamour paints a vivid picture of the characters and the scenes in which they work and play in. Highly recommended.
What a rippingly good adventure story! Much better than the last L'Amour book I read.
More fun from L'Amour. These books are not inherently great literature. I'm not sure that L'Amour even proofread one time. But I just keep reading them...
It's long been an observation that Westerns are Romance Novels for men, with many of the same beat patterns and relationship woes - cowboys finding women, losing women due to the harshness of the land, and winning them back - running alongside their long ubiquity and similar length on the bookshelves.
(In all this he is a reverse Conan, who survives by Barbarian purity in a world where civilization is decadent and corrupt.) Through this he has an romance very much of the Nora Roberts (to my mind the queen of the romance novels) vein, just with the steamy scenes cut to make room for gunfights.
Have read a good number of Louis L'Amour books, including this one, but it's been years, so I thought I'd read this one again.
I enjoyed reading it, but not as much as I remember liking most of L'Amour's novels.
So either my tastes have changed in the last 30 years--entirely possible--or this just wasn't one of my favorites.
I liked Tell Sackett: he does what needs doing without whining about it and has both a strong sense of honor and a sense of humor.
I just thought the story didn't have as much content and depth as I would have liked.
A very short, action-packed, quickly read tale of how Tell Sackett discovered gold, built a town and found his girl, Ange. L'Amour, Luke Short & Elmer Kelton, are the kings of western writers with many of their books being filmed. This one would make a great movie. Highly recommended.
Amazing!
Continuing to read these book in written order. This one was short on plot but does have a pretty girl and plenty of action.
ISBN from 1980 https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...In a hidden valley south of the Tetons, narrator William Tell Sackett finds gold, and starving orphan Ange Kerry.
"Any man can shoot a gun ..
But claim jumpers ambush and try to kill both, greviously injure Cap "in bad shape ..
thin, tough old man without too much blood in him ..
I see no reason exactly why you shouldn't have a mother like anybody else".
Cap "sizing me up" knows exactly the hidden insult.
"No mustang was ever taught to back up" p 171 could be in Mustang Man https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
My interest in the setting of the story combined with the historical fiction made for a great read.First of all, Sackett is a wonderful book about the life and times of a man in the Wild West.
These states are Colorado and Texas, both of which also happen to be the setting of Sackett.
The main character, Tell Sackett, travels all the way from Uvalde, Texas to the Sangre De Cristo Mountains of Colorado.
I loved how L’amour included the Gold Rush and other aspects of Western Culture like saloons, guns, and good ‘ole country showdowns.
Picked this copy up at a half-price store and was certainly taken in by William Tell Sackett.I loved how the author puts in the concepts of honor, the importance of literacy and the power of gold.
Tell had killed a man and that man’s family is out to get him.
He discovers his gold mine, dating from the Spanish conquest, and falls in love with a woman survivor up near the mine, whose family owned the map!
The author paints a picture of a rough, American West, how nature abides man to a point, and how love conquers all.
Gotta pick me up some more Sacketts!
I have read most of Louis L'Amour's books at least once, but this is the first time I read this volume. The old 1979 movie "The Sacketts" is based upon Louis L'Amour's books The Daybreakers and this book, Sackett. Because the movie focuses most of the attention on material from The Daybreakers I guess I expected this volume to be of a lower quality. Therefore, I was never properly motivated to read it. I was wrong; this book may be even better than the other. Good read.
First Louis L'Amour book...lots of fun.
There is something very satisfying about reading something that you have a pretty good idea what it's going to be about, and then you pick it up and it's a fun and easy read and it met all of your expectations.
It's just like sitting down to a John Wayne movie...you know what you're in for even if you don't know the specifics of that movie.
There's going to be a lot of shootouts and the bad guys are going to lose and the hero gets the girl.
This book was really enjoyable because it was just the kind of Western I expected.
"But the fact of the matter is, no man can shape his life according to woman's thinking. Nor should any woman try to influence a man toward her way. There must be give and take between them, but when a man faces a man's problems he has to face them a man's way." Don't we do just about everything different from this in our country? I love most of the wisdom of Louis L'amour.
Sackett is on my favorites list representing every Louis L'Amour book that I have ever read, which is a lot. Most, but not all, are westerns. Louis was the best in that genre. One can actually learn about life and philosophy from a Louis L'Amour western just as one can from Tolkien. They are not mutually exclusive.
This is by far my favourite book by Louis L'Amour. I haven't enjoyed many of his books but this one is different. The descriptions are great, the characters aren't perfect and make mistakes... Brilliant.
Great ReadGood story of the old west. The characters were interesting and L'Amour's descriptive writing paints a picture for the reader.
William Tell Sackett, known as Tell, finds gold, and with the help of Cap Johnson, build a town. Now he has to win the heart of Ange, the woman he loves
Tell Sackett is my favorite character invented by Lous L'Amour. This book is a story about Tell and it is great. The man even finds love.
It has all the elements - good guys, bad guys, gold, cattle drives, shootouts, etc.Tell is the oldest of the Sackett brothers and has followed a different path from them.
At the base of the mountains he lays out the foundation for a mining town which he knows will attract people who will follow the gold miners.
Tell nurses her back to health and takes her back down to his base camp.Upon returning he discovers that some men have confiscated his future town and have started building their own businesses.
Tell makes another run up to his gold mine, but icy weather and snow keeps him from returning to base camp.
The problem with wanting your own ranch is that you need money and lots of it to get started.On his way down to Mora, New Mexico from Montana he comes upon a trail that is marked with quartz.
This is a fairly decent story, there are a few places that it is a little slow, but Tell, like his brothers, wants to improve his lot in life much as Barnabas that very distance relative that settled the Carolina coast and whose sons moved further inland.
Louis L'Amour, master craftsman of story-telling, introduces us to William Tell Sackett, but also roughs out the sharp edge that divides civilization-building from might-makes-right.
Even the 18th Century Blackstone's "Commentaries on the Laws of England" plays a significant role in the adventurous project.
"Sackett" is a story of right and wrong, love found and almost lost, life and death, and working for the greater good rather than self-centered individualism.
If you're looking for an enjoyable read that has some meat and muscle, "Sackett" is a good place to go.
Sackett is the tale of one William Tell Sackett, brother of Orrin and Tyrell recounted in The Daybreakers, a lone wolf sort of man who seems to attract some amount of trouble incidentally simply due to his size and nature.
When he goes to sell some of the gold, other men's greed--and the family of the man he killed--start after Tell to either kill him, steal his gold, or both.The main problem with the tale, however, is the rather formulaic way that L'Amour has told nearly every Sackett tale.

Typical lamoure novel about an illiterate who got his education on the range and is now trying to build a town around a gold claim he discovers while rescuing a beautiful woman. He just writes until he fills up 180 pages. Interesting cultural things:1) lamoure's nuanced views of the First Nations People2) it never seems to occur to lamoure that the claim legally belongs to the woman.
Fun read
