https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7103.The_Big_Money
It was suddenly clear for a second in the thundering glare what war was about, what peace was about.”The war is over.
And the rich grew richer and the poor went poorer…“In America, in Europe, the old men won.
The bankers in their offices took a deep breath, the bediamonded old ladies of the leisure class went back to clipping their coupons in the refined quiet of their safe deposit vaults, the last puffs of the ozone of revolt went stale in the whisper of speakeasy arguments.”And suffering from a postwar hangover soldiers sailed home to seek their place in the sun in peace.
- What would you do if forgets the working class solidarity? Each of these foreign bastards thinks he is the only one worth anything, Americans take us to clean anything, except them, of course. There is still not so long ago we were all strangers in this damn country. God, I wonder why I walk with them! Lisbon Book-Fair 2015.
Dos Passos, John. THE BIG MONEY. (1936). ****. This is the third and final novel in Dos Passos’ trilogy, “USA.” It is the longest novel of the three, but the one in which the selected characters are more fully explored. The author continues his examination of America and its peoples, this time in the period just after WW I up to about 1925. Times were hard for lots of reasons and jobs were scarce. Although this was the time of the Roaring Twenties, the glitter was only on the surface. Dos Passos
Of particular interest is the character Charley Anderson, who believes in the American dream of starting his own business, with a wartime buddy as a partner, and making it big by exploiting his ideas for new technology for aviation – a field that was in its infancy.
He believes, as he certainly makes clear through the stories of his characters, that workers were there to be exploited by management and the money men.
Of particular interest are the author’s mini-biographies of notable people of the times that are inserted between chapters carrying on the stories of his characters.
A classic for a reason. This book (the entire trilogy really) is great writing, great history, and an excellent reminder that there really is nothing new under the sun. The lives of the characters and the times they live in (political unrest, class struggle, get rich quick schemes, war, xenophobia, etc) ring true today. The slang, however, has changed. So yes it's a little dated, but timeless at its core. Loved it.
The fact that Ford himself longed for old-fashioned quiet and simplicity, and spent his final years on a restored simulacrum of his father's farm, removed from the noise of his own automobiles, is just the kind of poignant, contradictory detail Dos Passos loves.The actual "characters" of U.S.A., the ones invented rather than just evoked by Dos Passos, who are the subjects of the trilogy's prose sections, come from a variety of backgrounds, but often work hard to end up in a different part of society than the one in which they started: working-class, middle-America Charley Anderson, for example, gifted with machines and a flying ace in WWI, starts his own aviation company with a friend and ends up wealthy, married to a society girl; meanwhile Mary French, daughter of the Main Line, goes against her mother's wishes and leaves college to be a union organizer and community activist.
In "The Big Money" DosPassos captures the spirit of a generation- the "lost generation"- as the lives of several characters intersect and intertwine in the years between the end of the First World War and the crash of 1929.
Looking back from DosPassos' perspective at the time of writing, it seems like the 1929 crash and the ensuing Depression were a judgement, of sorts, on American society: paying the piper for years of crass materialism, empty satisfaction of material and physical wants (wealth, sex, and booze), and the betrayal of the American dream: no longer was wealth- even mere security- obtained through work and innovation; rather, through manipulation of financial markets and abuse of credit.

Dos Passos concludes his portrait of modernity with its breathless activity & discordant cacophony.
This past weekend, I finally finished The Big Money, the final book in John Dos Passos' USA Trilogy which began with The 42nd Parallel and 1919.
Interspersed with these three narrative forms is a fourth obscure set of chapters that come under the heading "Camera Eye" and provide Dos Passos' impressions of various times of his own life.
I can't say that feeling completely disappeared by the end of the book, but Dos Passos managed to allay most of it by avoiding the predictable dramatic climax synchronized with the stock market crash.
I was barely 13 and reading the headiest book I’d ever encountered: John Dos Passos’ trilogy, USA.
Over 1200 pages long, I discovered an America I never knew existed, an America hidden from the children of the Cold War, not in our history books or bedtime stories, and I fell in love with the spirit of Socialism.
One night at supper, my father silently handed me a book of poetry.
I began reading it at the supper table and tears streamed down my face.
Did he understand the balance it would give my heart, or did he simply find a book of poetry in a box of books he’d bought and think I’d enjoy reading it?
The Big Money, the final third of Dos Passos' ambitious U.S.A. Trilogy, is every bit as strong as the first two books, The 42nd Parallel and 1919.
I'm probably doing Dos Passos a disservice by calling his trilogy ambitious.
The narrative is fragmented into four separate styles that complement and inform each other, allowing the trilogy to be both sweepingly general and highly specific: fictional stories of 12 characters whose lives occasionally intersect throughout the three books; collages of newspaper headlines, newsreel scripts, and popular song lyrics of the time period; short nonfiction biographies of famous Americans; and Joyce-inspired, impressionistic, semi-autobiographical stream-of-consciousness.
I think the best of the three in the USA trilogy, although I may have just gotten used to the style.
The four different writing styles, or viewpoints, help paint the picture of the era.
The newsreels, the stream of consciousness, the narrative fiction and camera eye all are a bit different but add to the panorama Dos Passos is painting of the era.
I say this was the best of the three works because the characters in the fictional narratives are in more tense situations, heading towards either victory or calamity.
This book gets a one star improvement over the second entry in the trilogy just because I like the darker turn/tone it takes.
Dos Passos still has no clue about how to write a woman character but at least as he's gotten older he's become more bitter about them and the motives he suspects in them.
This leads him to allow the women to do some of the same kind of using that had been done to them by feckless men in the first two books.
So I guess you could say a certain kind of shabby equality of the sexes has been achieved in this final volume of the USA trilogy.
Oy vey what a train wreck. The book was torn between Upton Sinclair power to the people proletariatisms and Harold Robbins potboiler men in power and their sins-type sensation. I had to occasionally check the cover to make sure I was still reading Dos Passos. To be kind this is a Roaring Twenties "Valley of The Dolls" with Mary French as Anne Welles, Eveline Johnson as Jennifer North, and Margo Dowling as Neely O'Hara.
Fortunately, I think the third volume really bounced back. Margo Dowling is a great character, and so is Mary French. Dos Passos' women really do tend to be better than his men, don't they?
Both convey a mind-numbing sadness and make you really ache in your heart for the miserable lives and broken dreams of these characters.I would never have made it in early 20th century America.
All the while the moneyed classes spent vast sums on trivialities, and yet they weren't happy either-- engaging in endless sad affairs, continual drinking, and obsession with the stock market.I'm making the book sound like a downer, and it is.
I guess that's what makes it so good-- it's unflinchingly honest about the sadness of the unfulfilled American Dream and the hypocrisies at the heart of the USA at this time.
Não sei se é a Grande Novela Americana, como tentam vender, talvez seja a maior novela americana que pouca gente leu.
Eu mesmo achei muito por acaso.
Curti a capa numa livraria em meados de 2009, e vi as aspas colocando essa trilogia acima dos trabalhos do Faulkner e do Hemingway, mas foi só ao ler um pedaço que me encantei.
Um trabalho semi-experimental junto com um spam de tempo de décadas.
Só li o primeiro em 2014, achei um tanto lento, demorado.
É mesmo lento, mas acho que é uma leitura para ser feita sem pressa, por um longo tempo.
Vale muito a pena.
Each decade has its own flavor; the 1900s dominated by class strife and the emergence of the labor movement fading, as it ends, toward the theme of the next decade, which is the Great War, patriotism and loyalty with undercurrents of class struggle persisting (we see even now these underlays as the flavor of one decade doesn’t fully end on the exact last date of that decade) and we see themes of the next decade (money, ambition, partying) taking shape.
And by the way, as we get this high-level big-picture vantage point, it’s hard not to notice the workings of the old adage, the more things change, the more they stay the same.
The 20’s are an interesting time in American history, and Dos Passos really delves into the glamour and excess, the confidence of America after the war contrasted with the materialistic, doomed future.
(Charley, a war hero who makes his way into business, “the self made man,” is also a drunk who uses and abuses women, and Margo, the pretty blond who heads west to become a movie star, was a victim of sexual abuse as a child and uses people relentlessly on her way to the top.) I did like how Dos Passos alludes to American “mythic” figures, like the Wright Brothers, Isadora Duncan, and Henry Ford.
The Big Money is a very interesting and compelling novel that I'm glad to have read.
It's actually the third book in the "USA Trilogy" following American culture through the first 3 decades of the 20th century (each novel covering one decade).
The Big Money takes us through the 1920s.The style is experimental and at times a little odd because of that.
It provides some very interesting insights into what social, political and cultural life was like during this timeframe.
Of the John dos Passos trilogy: The Big Money ( USA., #3 ) has the best characterization, and story lines.
This is contains a wide range of personalities and conditions.
With his use of the Camera Eye and the Newsreel, he captures the kaleidoscope nature of the modern age.
These chapters capture in print the powerful impact of media: film and newsreel.
If written in our times John Dos Passos would have tried to capture the internet, and social media.
He also includes brief biographies of important individuals on the American public stage as these offer a deeper backdrop to the persons and events to his narrative.
U.S.A. was one of my best reading experiences in American literature.
All 3 volumes held my interest.
The short bios of famous business innovators and the newsreels were fabulous and had the freedom of poetry.
The character based sections worked like engrossing short stories and benefited from being progressively interconnected.
The dialogue was fun and the presence of a beat-down revolutionary spirit throughout the volumes tied it all together.
This series will stir up your working class rage and make you feel more leftist, although not without ample cynicism and growing distrust of all things human.
This literature is excellent for filling blanks of your historical and cultural education.
Charley Anderson: riffin' off that old Minnesotan drunk FSFitzgerald, that old Jay Gatsby-gangster as big as the Ritz.Bureaucracy and rationalization kill the little guy, and probably the big guy's soul too.
Here is the kernel of disgruntled individualism that lies in productive tension with Dos Passos's early leftism, something that later evolves into Dos Passos's later right-wing crazy libertarianism and McCarthyism.
Leftisms can certainly romanticize the individual, the creator of value, the maker, the worker too - is this at the root of the shadow-side?
(We crazy lefties have far more in common with Tea Partiers than we might care to admit).In high modernist collage style, oh yeah...
This book pulled together all the big players and the big events. I have to say that I wanted a little more earth shattering event around the stock market. But I learned about a lot of people and attitudes that were happening during this time.I would like to remind puerile that the author was a socialist. But he also changed his position on that! I think that is important, because names can be so divisive. I think some follow up links or people:https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scien...https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernes...https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_T...https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conso...https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samue...
It’s not accurate to say that Dos Passos brings things together in the final volume of his USA trilogy, but his vision is more compelling than in previous books and, with the benefit of them as prologue, his design becomes more clear.
The title is apt for a book on corruption by a socialist, but Dos Passos is too subtle and introspective for his work to devolve into simple-minded tract.
His sympathies are clear, but the complexities of the situation don’t escape him and there's no strident hero of the working class coming through morally unscathed.
"the law stares across the desk out of angry eyes his face reddens in splotches like a gobbler's neck with the strut of the power of submachine guns sawedoffshotguns teargas and vommitgas the power that can feed you or leave you to starve.sits easy at his desk his back covered he feels strong behind him he feels the prosecutingattorney the judge an owner himself the political boss the minesuperintendent the board of directors the president of the utility the manipulator of the holdingcompanyhe lifts his hand toward the telephonethe deputies crowd in the doorwe have only words against"
The U.S.A. Trilogy is a phenomenal series. The first two books are the strongest in my opinion, but The Big Money is still an excellent book. This one chronicles the lives of primarily four individuals--two from the previous books and two new ones. Dos Passos remains committed to following people in the lower, middle, and upper classes of society giving a unique insight into America in the 1920s. Dos Passos again shows the ugly underbelly of America without reservation, yet his characters are sympathetic. This is a masterwork of fiction and should not be missed.
Great final volume to the outstanding USA trilogy; Dos Passos has a very particular way of writing which perfectly captures the tenor of the era and of course knowing what came later must color the way we see this period and perceive his pessimism. Not sure how key the Newsreel and Camera Eye motifs are--I know that initially had put me off reading--but I suspect that have an accumulative effect I didn't really know much about this period in US history so the detail is great. Overall, USA is a towering achievement.
Jesus Christ, do I really have to summarize the experience of the U.S.A. Trilogy in an internet comments section? Panoramic and epic aren't sufficient adjectives. The gold standard of American breadth and scope, perhaps? All the sadness, struggle, and over-brimming ambition, desperation, and fantasy surely lies within its covers. And there's this challenge -- if our generation doesn't produce its own answer to Dos Passos' expansive vision we have failed ourselves.
The final in the series. But, really, this is a single very long novel. It isn't about this character or that character, it's about America, and it's the best description of America that I know. If I were to meet a non-American who asked me to recommend a novel about my country, I would recommend this one, with no hesitation.
