https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13591873-dark-elderberry-branch
I am happy living simplylike a clock, or a calendar.Or a woman, thin,lost ーas any creature. To knowthe spirit is my beloved. To arrive on earth ーswiftas a ray of light, or a look.To live as I write: spareーthe wayGod asks meーand friends do not.
I am happy living simply I am happy living simplylike a clock, or a calendar.Or a woman, thin,lost - as any creature. To knowthe spirit is my beloved. To arrive on earth - swiftas a ray of light, or a look.To live as I write: spare - the wayGod asks me - and friends do not.
I was really excited to read this translation after I heard some of the poems read on the Poetry Magazine podcast.
Jean Valentine and Ilya Kaminsky translated the book together.
The poems are passionate, and I got the idea that Tsvetaeva never felt anything half-way The book was great.
I hope the book does well and the two decide to translate more of her poems.
I really regret not being able to go.Favorites from the book:The DeskPoems for MoscowAn Attempt at JealousyWhere does such tenderness come fromHere is a link to all of her poems on Poetry's website (most translated by Valentine and Kaminsky)
My favourite Russian poet. A superb short collection.
A superficial sampling of the work of a great poet. Tsvetaeva deserves more than 30 pages of excerpts.
Very short book which includes poetry and prose. There is a CD attached which is in Russian which I don't understand but gives a sense of her rhythm in her native language.
Take it, church by church -- all forty times forty churches, and flying up the roofs, the small pigeons;  and Spassky Gates -- and gates, and gates -- where the Orthodox take off their hats; and the Chapel of Stars -- refuge chapel -- where the floor is -- polished by tears;There's more elegance in the second translation -- the poem still feels like a poem, and less prosy than Feinstein's -- although there are elements of Feinstein's that I'm missing in the Kaminsky/Valentine version, like the flowers (where did they go, Ilya?) .
This is a strange and worthwhile little book that offers some lovely new translations of the great Russian poet Marina Tsvataeva, whose work I have always loved.
However, I would have preferred more translations and less editorializing.
The authors assume no familiarity with Tsvataeva, and rather than, say, offer a foreward with biography, they intersperse the book with their own commentary, bits of biography and so on.
It's very annoying.
The book, coming from a small press, is slight.
Let Marina herself speak.
I'd rather have had more poems, to reiterate.But she is so vivid, she appears in these pages no matter what.
It was an interesting read and look further into the author’s life. She committed suicide at a fairly young age (in her 40’s) while in the midst of some of the worst of the old Soviet Union’s crackdowns on independent thinkers. Her poetry speaks to both the inner and outer life. These fragments just whet my appetite for more. They also encourage me to think about the ways in which I see life unfolding both within and without myself. I’m glad I read it.
My favorite book of 2012 with less than a month to go. Kaminsky & Valentine, no more the Tsvetaeva herself when translating, wisely do not attempt to be literal for sound or music. But their 'reading' of Marina Tsvetaeva brings American closer to her than a translation would and next to Tsvetaeva is a wonderful place to be.  This comes with a CD of Polina Barskova and Valezhna Mort reading the originals in Russian -- and that's just the bonus!
I bless our hands' daily laborI bless our hands' daily labor, blesssleep every night.Bless night every night.And the coat, your coat, my coat,half dust, half holes.and I bless the peacein a stranger's house--the bread in a stranger's oven.*******A lovely, mysterious collection of passionate poems and fragments, and a biographical sketch written in the same spirit. Exciting to have the CD, too, and to hear the poems read in Russian.
I appreciate Kaminsky and Valentine's acknowledgement of the impossibility of a translation, instead presenting their collection as their own "readings" of Tsvetaeva. Their afterword was worthwhile on its own, but I'd prefer Tsvetaeva's compiling, rather than another's; I want the raw material.
Read it from intro to end in one sitting. Then again. Then read just my favorite moments. Then read the entire book again. Then put it next to the rocking chair to continue in this manner, possibly forever.
This is a beautiful and unusual book. It is a true homage to Marina Tsvetaeva, one of the great Russian poets.
A brief overview of Tsvetaeva's body of work, but the moments are explosive.
'...and soon the blizzard of stars will go quiet.'
Absolutely beautiful work.
