https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142442.Galahad_at_Blandings
Kao što postoji osoba s Balkana koja nije čitala i volela Nušića tako ne postoji osoba s engleskog govornog područja koja nije pročitala makar neku Vudhausovu knjigu...
Ovo je prva njegova knjiga koju sam kupila i pročitala i kupio me je za ceo život...
Najpoznatiji serijal knjiga mu je o Dživsu i Vusteru (sjajna ekranizacija s maestralnim Hjuom Lorijem i Stivenom Frajom) a meni lično najdraži je serijal o Blandings Castle (nedavno su Britanci uradili i seriju po tim knjigama)...
To je jedini pisac koga mogu da čitam do 101 i nazad i da uvek iznova uživam (inače nikad ne čitam neku knjigu dva puta)...
Dva puta sam bila na ivici da mi to pođe za rukom...
He saw the 20th century nearing its dawn and knew, of course, what calamities and cruelties awaited mankind: world wars, genocide, tyrannies unbound.
And so, that October, God gave us P.G. Wodehouse.
To return again to Blandings is to take a deep breath of something wholly comforting, yet also to plunge headfirst into something deliciously bracing.
These books are similar enough not to withstand much in the way of binge-reading; however, spaced delicately apart, they become oases of reassuringly madcap hilarity, aye, and certain they are to heal the weary soul and lift a troubled heart.Galahad Threepwood, denizen of Blandings Castle, younger son, wastrel, and rogue is the driving force behind most of the plot in this one.
The 21st century has its own woes to drown in Wodehouse.
Recently on the Late Late Show, Craig Ferguson was asked what he thought was the best book by P.G. Wodehouse.
But with only a little hesitation he answered "Galahad at Blandings." Inspired by that, I got it from the library, and of the Wodehouse I've read, I'd have to agree with him.
It is certainly the best plotted, with about eight intertwined plot threads, each filled with complications, all coming to crises in the last pages, and all miraculously solved to the good by the intrepid Galahad Threepwood.
I have recently read two Wodehouse novels, one written in his mid twenties, this one when he was eighty-one.
Another fun entry in the Blandings series.
Another delightful farce by Wodehouse, and my first at Blandings Castle. We have a fabulous cast of colourful family members, a soused sow, mixed up identities, love, coppers and more. I have to say that while Right Ho, Jeeves has been my favourite Wodehouse (due in large part to the brilliant audio recording), over all I like Blandings a great deal, that and The Luck of the Bodkins are my two second favourite of his books that I've read so far. I guess Wooster got boring for me after one or two books.

Just so fun. Such laid back beautiful summer reading. --"As they made their way to the buttercup-dabbled meadow in a corner of which the Empress's self-contained flat was situated, Gally enlivened their progress with the story of the girl who said to her betrothed, 'I will not be dictated to!' and then went and got a job as a stenographer..." (79)--
In steps Gally, and it’s suddenly battle stations, with everybody from a pair of village constables to a boy intent on letting the Empress out of her sty for a run, joining in the goings-on at Blandings.
This is not the story of the girl who said to her betrothed ‘I will not be dictated to!’ and then went and got a job as a stenographer, it is rather the ninth Blandings novel continuing the saga with the characters Timpson Plimsoll and Veronica Hermoine whom we previously met in ‘Full Moon’.
Blandings Castle which, as has been noted previously, has imposters in much the same way other Castles have mice and here is no exception with Sam appearing as legendary pig authority Augustus Whipple, author of ‘The Care of the Pig’.
What a delightful comedy of errors. Galahad, Lord Emsworth's brother is trying to patch up a host of misunderstandings - Sam and Sandy's broken hearts, Tipton and Veronica's about-to-break engagement, Wilfred and Monica's love life, Beach's grudge against Sam for the accidentally stolen prize watch, saving Lord Emsworth from Dame Daphne Winkworth and her son Huxley, finding Wilfred a job, oh there are so many things to fix. But Galahad is up to all of it. His smooth-talking and raconteur skills save the day for a lot of people, and the readers get a riotous laugh on every page.
Just finished reading this aloud as a family in the evenings. Pure unadulterated joy and hilarity! If I could give it 100 stars, I would. I have always had a soft spot in my heart for Blandings Castle. I love Jeeves and Bertie, but if I had to choose, I'd always pick Gally Theepwood and Clarence at Blandings. Oh yes.... and the lovable and large Empress of Blandings..... the pig!
This was my first Wodehouse novel. This is the stuff of thirties screwball comedies, with the complexity of a Shakespeare comedy. The humor is situational, with some wordplay and the sort of class playfulness that was part of the depression era.I'll read others. Whimsical and fun.
For me not Jeeves and Wooster. Not enough bellly ache laughter. Although when I did laugh it was long and out loud. A good old dated farce, that Wodehouse fans would love.
For me Galahad's continual meddling to fix things, which always worked, made the book less fun than other Wodehouse offerings. Part of the joy of Wodehouse is seeing how the characters' stumbles land them in the right spot for a fortuitous bit of action that helps wrap everything up. This book had precious little of that.
It seems to me that the theme of all Wodehouse books are more or less the same, there is always trouble brewing between a young couple who are otherwise in love and there is a mastermind around, an epic character, to help them realize this.
Another standard character is the prim and proper aunt.
This prim and proper aunt always has a male relative she would much rather throw into an asylum than admit a relation to.
Even though its basic plot is so similar to the previous Wodehouse books I've read, the unbelievably absurd circumstances the long suffering characters get caught in are sidesplitting.
Brinkmanship is filled with delightful characters in a hopeless tangle in which the titular Galahad remains cool-headed throughout a fast-paced comedy of errors and unwinds the Gordian knot of his family's hilariously interwoven conundra.
I am not a fan of the Jeeves titles; having read a few and also some of Wodehouse's short stories I generally find the humor rather trying and the dialogue frustrating, swimming about lazily in plots thin as stone soup.
However, the Brinkmanship of Galahad Threepwood has completely renewed my interest in Wodehouse.
Hilarious out of the world super duper book.
I laughed so much while reading this book that my family would stare at me and ask what’s so funny as none of them are wodehouse fans.
Coming to the story I just loved loved lord Emsworth in this book he was a top hat exploring America for the first time and his surprise at tea being served in tea bags...
his reactions were hilarious and the story gets funnier as he returns back to blandings and the fun continues.Galahad at his usual best bringing love birds together clearing their mis understandings and uniting them.Overall a top hat book not to be missed by anyone for that matter....
It's incredible that this is as late in Wodehouse's output as it is - unlike the later Jeeves books, the spirit and wit of Blandings Castle is still intact. Wodehouse reads like he is really enjoying himself rather than phoning in about characters he's become heartily sick of - again, unlike the later Jeeves books. It's delightful, and Gally is his manipulative best, while Lord Emsworth continues reliably hilarious.
At Blandings Castle, it's business as usual -- thwarted young lovers, impostors and old battle-axes abound, the Empress is in peril of shedding a pound, Lord Emsworth is bedevilled by a secretary, and none but the Hon. Galahad Threepwood can possibly set the world right again. Also, as usual, sheer, joyous comic genius oozes from every page.
I'd say 90% of the people that visit Blandings Castle are imposters.
Very pleasant romp at Blandings.
This novel was suddenly shorter than others in this series.
Not sure if that will continue, but I hope not (we're at #10 of 12; I've not read 9, 11, 12).
Interestingly, and likely relatedly, Wodehouse leaves a few strands of the narrative untied (his plots are usually very, VERY well tied at the end of a novel).
Not sure if he was setting himself up for another novel, or just getting lazy!
What we do have is fine, although I do sense the same loss of momentum that I sensed in the latter Jeeves novels.
Most writers would consider a comic novel like this one of their crowning achievements.
The best Wodehouse books-- and by best I mean almost all of them-- make ridiculously complicated plots seem natural and effortless. This book is certainly complicated, but I think you can sense Wodehouse working for it. That makes it the rarest of things-- a Wodehouse that isn't really graceful or smooth-- but it still has a ton of humor and good cheer. I should also say that the Blandings Castle books are, generally, highly worthwhile.
The more I read Wodehouse the more I am in awe wondering how he managed to be so consistently original, amusing and inventive. The absolute master of conjuring up similes, and effortlessly inserting unexpected references to the classics into mundane (and more commonly bizarre) situations. Many times while reading I had to put the book down to recover from ecstatic fits of laughter, combined with an utter disbelief that it could be so good.
42 WORD REVIEW:In Galahad Threepwood surely we have the nascent (if more genteel) template for Dirk Gently, and in the comings and goings at Blandings Castle that of Douglas Adams’ much-vaunted fundamental interconnectedness of everything. This is Wodehouse at his fabulous, gab-gifted, exquisite best.
The ending is predictable to anyone who has read other Wodehouse novels, but there are amusing twists along the route to getting there. The real attraction, in my opinion, is the colorful turns of phrase which fill Wodehouse's writing. I was disappointed that the brat child did not get a larger role, since I imagine Wodehouse could keep him endlessly entertaining.
This book was fun and well written with classic comedy bits like mistaken identities, misunderstandings, and quarreling lovers. I wouldn't say I was ever laughing out loud or anything, but a generally enjoyable book.
"You don't think it's only his money that the attraction, do you?""Certainly not. They're soul mates. She has about as much brain as a retarded billiards ball, and he approximately the same. It's the ideal union."
3.5 stars. Alternate title for "Galahad at Blandings", I think.
I have only one more Blandings Castle left. Life will seem so empty soon.
