https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977817.Possum_Magic
http://www.news.com.au/entertainment/...Anyone else love Donald Trump right now?
A sparkling story steeped in Australian "magic" about Grandma Poss and little Hush, two possums from the country.
Grandma works her magic so Hush is invisible, which allows the little possum to do lots of fun things (like slide down kangaroos' backs) and also stay hidden from snakes (which is why Grandma worked the magic in the first place!) But one day, Hush decides she wants to be visible.
Turns out, human food is the only way to make it happen and, in true Australian style, it isn't until Hush starts to eat a Vegemite sandwich that she starts to become visible.
Reread in preparation for my Australia trip. Still awesome!
Classic Australian children's literature right here. Such a lovely little adventure and it was a fun experience with all the foods but there's also that secret little dig at not wanting to be invisible which breaks my heart a little bit these days when I think of it with all my adult wisdom.
She said that if you didn't have time as parents to read several books a day to your children (meaning picture books, as you might imagine) you should have had gold fish instead.I anxiously rang my mother the next day.
'Of course we read to you when you were little', sounding a bit shocked that I'd even wondered.Not surprisingly, maybe, since my mother taught with Mem when we were little and in fact Mem gave us elocution lessons while we were in primary school.
I've always wondered if that was due to, or despite, Mem's lessons.
This is a cute story. I liked it. Nice and easy for mummy to read. Now I want a vegemite sandwich, pavlova and lamington for my birthday!
There’s a cute pictorial map at the end showing the journey through (including regional foods eaten) and places in Australia.
As always, I love maps in books.
This is a sweet story of a possum, made magically invisible for safety reasons by her grandma, who decides she wants to be visible.
How this feat is achieved is great fun.
Even so, the story didn’t really wow me, but the illustrations are very fine.
In addition to the fun map, there’s a glossary of Australian terms in the back of the book, all the words being foods common in Australia.
Fun touch!
It was included with our history lessons and we had to read it to coincide with Australia.
A lot of new words included with foreign animals, that make it difficult to learn because there's nothing telling us what the animal is, even though there are pictures.
So for example, you have a page with lots of animals and words that talk about wombats, kookaburras, dingoes, emus, and bush magic.
Our lesson includes a song about kookaburras that my son really likes, so now after we've learned the song, it's easy to remember the word, but the book wasn't as helpful in that.
Update Jan. 1, 2015:A delightful and beautiful illustrated Australian tale about a little possum who is made invisible and after a while doesn't want to be invisible anymore.
He and his grandmother travel throughout Australia to find the right food to turn him back.
It's so cute and sweet, though, it doesn't matter and you hear about foods from different regions.
It's still a little random, though.Original review Oct. 30, 2008:This has to be one of the most random children's books I've ever read.
But the illustrations are beautiful watercolors that make the book worth reading on their own.
AN AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN’S-BOOK AUTHOR’S U.S. CUSTOMS ORDEALBy Cynthia Zarin February 27, 2017in: http://www.newyorker.com/books/page-t...
One of the best children's books out there
Never really liked this book
Now Grandma Poss is a whizz at bush magic and and devises a pièce de résistance, a magic that makes Hush invisible.
The final page shows a map of the culinary tour and a glossary of the dishes.
The illustrations are charming: grandma Poss in pinny and pumps cycling around Australia with Hush on her back….
The story is a delight in itself but would be a huge asset to any classroom teacher wanting to introduce Australia to his/her students.
This book makes me want to hop straight on a plane to Sydney and then into the bush!
I love reading books from other countries, and this is one that's quickly become a huge hit in our house, thank you to a friend of mine from Australia.
Sadly I hadn't even heard of this book until I received, but now that it's become part of our collection of picture books, it's one that's been read more than a few times.Possum Magic follows the story of two possums, Grandma Poss and Hush, whom live in the Australian Bush.
Prior to the start of the story Grandma Poss made Hush invisible to protect her from harm.
While a lot of this probably went over the 3-year-old's head (who outside Australia knows what a lamington or pavlova is?), he enjoyed asking me 'What's that?' and pointing to the wombat and the koala.
Reading this so far away from home this time made me miss Australian 'culture' somewhat; well, maybe just lamingtons...Original review from 5 November 2013A charming Australian children's classic about Hush and Grandma Poss and their quest to find food to make Hush visible again.
Another one of those books that every Australian kid remembers from childhood, and no American kid could decipher, probably: quick, find me a vegemite sandwich, pavlova and a lamington!
This book was absolutely precious.
The story of little possums, crossing the vast wilderness of Australia trying to find a magic bush that will no longer make their friend invisible anymore is wonderful.
It not only teaches children the power of working together, but it sparks the questions of what type of animal is living in Australia.
This is a great conversation piece for children talking about the laws of physics and whether or not people can actually turn invisible as well as a biological discussion about the different wildlife with in the Australian outback.I would recommend this book for grades 2nd through 5th.
Yes I know I gave this book three stars, because of memories I've had.
The stories you'd recommend the teacher to get from the library merely because you remember reading it last year with your teacher.
I loved this book a long time ago, and the teacher used to read with such funny expressions.
These stories are the ones that make little kids smile all over the globe.
*Insert applause for Mem Fox here* A lot of book reviews depend on your personal feeling towards the book.
Well, lets just say there's a lot of memories in this book for me.
3 stars it is.
A classic Aussie story for all ages.If you come here, make sure to grab a copy - it makes for a great souvenir!
This is a really cute (and very Australian) story. It's a lot of fun seeing what the possum does while invisible and going on the journey to make the possum visible again.
This book needs to be read with a selection of Australian snacks including the vegemite. Seriously. What a fun story. I love the magic of Grandma Poss. What a neat book!
This book gives a glimpse of different cultures to children. It is a fun book that encourages them to follow the story of a possum as he travels from place to place, discovering the magic in each.
Possum Magic is glorious and unashamedly Australian and one of the better things to come out of the 80s. It is just wonderful.
To keep Hush safe from snakes, Grandma Poss uses her bush magic to make Hush invisible. This book is a great introduction for children to some of the variety of aspects of Australia.
I no longer have this book because it wasn't a favorite of mine, but the kids remember it, not the story, but the animals and the "magic food."
Can't think why this book is a classic. There are far better Australian children's books. Anyway...

I adore this book. The beautiful illustrations and lyrical text. I don't know how many times I have read this book over the years but I never tire of it. For a homeschooler this covers Australian fauna, geography and even has ideas for cooking. Mem Fox and Julie Vivas are a wining team every time. A true Australian classic.
This book is one we shared for Global Read Aloud. Students loved seeing the Australian animals and the magical pieces of Hush becoming invisible. A favorite part was the map and explanation of the different “people food” in the back. Students enjoyed hearing about the sweets the possums ate. Fun story.
Adorable book. A possum is turned invisible by her grandmother who has magical powers. They travel around Australia eating different people food to make her visible again. Interesting way to introduce geography and ethnic foods.
I'd never read this book before. It has nice watercolours. If I was a child I would have liked it just for the watercolours alone. I expected this to be a much bigger, thicker book with far more content; more like The Magic Pudding by Norman Lindsay, which I loved.
