https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1358844.Remember_Me_
This would usually be the time when I would ask the largely rhetorical and semi-pathetic question, “Why do I keep reading Sophie Kinsella books?” Well, this time the answer is blatantly obvious—the plot of this one involves amnesia, yo, and I can never resist amnesia—and the question is kind of unfair.
We might, in fact, be reading this book set in London in part to soak up the English atmosphere and indulge our Anglophilia.
“Remember Me?” is a solid book if you like Sophie Kinsella, and it's got some humor, but I think it's a pretty big step down from her other books.
In typical chick lit fashion, the conflicts do get resolved with some twists and turns, which are pretty fun and empowering, but I'm not digging the whole romance between Lexi and Jon. They don’t have any chemistry at all, and it felt contrived.
While I giggled in a few spots, I had nowhere near the normal amount of laughs I get from Kinsella's hapless characters.
Like I said, it was a fun book -- but not as enjoyable as her previous books.
Sophie Kinsella's books follow a formula that's as simple and delicious as my favorite chocolate chip cookie recipe.
The recipe in The Undomestic Goddess is slightly different--like an inverse chocolate chip cookie recipe, I suppose.
Lexi Smart, the central character in Remember Me?, learns an especially important lesson: the perfect life-- with a perfect body, career, and husband--just isn't all it's cracked up to be.I know that cookies aren't good for me.
What fun to imagine that career success can come so easily from selling vintage carpet designs--and in London, no less!Conclusion: Remember Me?
This book represents every reason why I do not just pick up adult novels and read them without getting a trusted opinion.
The fact that every other page contained the f-word (not an exaggeration) was enough to turn me off to the book.
Add in the fact that the characters discussion of sex made it sound more like a boys high school locker room, and I'd had enough.
I think I'll stick with my previous inclinations to get an opinion from a trusted friend first, which is the main reason I love Goodreads!
Typically, I don’t give 2 star ratings cause I’ve never felt like a book was just “ok.” It’s usually, I  love  a book, enjoy it, find it pleasant, or hate it.
When thinking about continuing to read the book, I’d feel like I was being forced to do chores and that’s  never  something you want to feel when reading.
Like, um no, stop this nonsense.
The whole point of the story is for her to retrieve her memory but like *yawn* I could barely make it through this one.
I love you.""Really?" I beam delightedly before I can stop myself.
Thanks very much!”   2 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~book #2 in the Sophie Kinsella binge read
The fun and farcical story of Lexie Smart has the heroine in this tale, Remember Me?, wondering how she got to a completely different station in life between the years 2004 and 2007.
She believes she's stumbled into a dream life, but soon steps into a hornet's nest of complications, including finding out she's married to a "guy she just met," Eric, who is so rigid you have to sit up straighter just reading about him.
She can't remember the last three years of her life and the drastic changes she underwent to go from a snaggletooth bumbler to a high-styled corporate bigwig married to a millionaire.
Actual Rating 4.5 starsI really enjoyed this one!
My favorite Kinsella book to date.
I don't know if it's the chick lit genre or just Kinsella, but I'm hoping some of her other books have something different to offer.
But aside from that, the story was so funny and crazy but it just worked.
I was laughing out loud and cringing all the way!
Is it just me or does Sophie know how to write the most cringe-worthy embarrassing scenes for her leading ladies??
Haha It's almost painful to get through at times but so, so, so funny!
Pages and pages and chapters and chapters of her trying to digest the fact that she doesn't remember the last three years.
"I'll send your sister in, then, shall I" and she spends two pages wondering who the sullen teen is who enters the room.
And that's not even the worst example as the sister proceeds to spitefully dupe her over and over and over again.It just got too painful spending any more time in a first person story from a credulous idiot.
Added to the credulousness of the viewpoint character and it all felt like someone performing slapstick in front of a traffic accident.
Cute, fun, and hilarious as always!
esse sim é o mais fraco dela!) Ainda assim foi uma boa leitura de entretenimento.A sinopse lança basicamente a premissa do livro, temos a Lexi que numa noite de farra com as amigas, cai ao tentar apanhar um táxi.
A Lexi foi uma óptima protagonista mas como já tinha dito na minha opinião de "Tenho o teu núm3ro" a Lexi não é diferente da Samantha ou da Becky, aliás para eu não andar a repetir-me passo a citar-me:Para quem já é fã como eu, já sabe o que espera.
Ok this was fun but WHAT kind of ending was that?!?!
Most of the story is her trying to piece together how she transformed into such a mean person who dropped all of her friends and married a guy who isn't as great as he first seemed.
and Lexi spends the rest of the story trying to figure out who she really used to love.
But at least Channing Tatum's character in the movie knew he should try to start their relationship over again.
But Lexi's a super relatable and funny narrator, which honestly redeemed so much of this story!
The idea behind this book is thought provoking - Ladies, what would you do if you suddenly woke up in the hospital to find out that not only have you no memory of the last three years of your life, but that everything you do remember has changed?
Readers are treated to a mystery as Lexi takes on the task of discovering who she is and what is really important to her - she learns just what events sparked the tremendous changes in her life and as she gets to know herself, she discovers who she really wants to be.
Imagine not remembering that you’re having an affair.Lexi Smart is having a crappy night, in her words “On a scale of one to ten we’re talking …a minus six.
Before she can moan about the state of her life any further Lexi tops the night off by slipping on the wet street and tumbling down a flight of stairs.When Lexi wakes up she’s in a London hospital, but hold on something’s a little off…she’s in a private room and her nails are manicured, her teeth are perfect (guess they can’t call her Snaggletooth anymore) her body is toned and thin (squeal) and her handbag is Vuitton.
I was very disappointed in this book. I felt like the author was spending more time trying to use every swear word she had ever heard than developing a good story. The concept intrigued me -- who isn't interested in amnesia? But the story was really about unhappiness and unfaithfulness. It was uninspired. That being said, if any of my friends still want to read it I read it with a black marker in my hand and now at least the bad language and some scenes are edited out!
She was totally daft, she wanted to be a respected boss, but at the same time wanted her workers to be her BFFs. She was like a child instead of a grown women, wanting everyone to like her and hang out with her, and was desperate to be loved by her workers, she cared more about that than actually being successful at her job.
Lexi's friends were total dicks, I don't know why she even bothered with them when they dropped her just because she was promoted and became their boss and actually did her job properly.
Such a different fluffy book from what i've been used to. I really liked it!! :D It reminded me a bit of the movie 'The Vow' and 'From 13 to 30'. I haven't read a book of Kinsella before!! And i have to say i really loved her way of writing!! I need to read more of her books!!! :D I also loved the ending. i need that kind of closure to all of my books pleaseeeeee *.* AMAZING BOOK!!! ♥
Becky Bloomwood came to the big screen in 2009 with the hit Disney movie Confessions of a Shopaholic, starring Isla Fisher and Hugh Dancy.Sophie has also written seven standalone novels which have all been bestsellers in the UK, USA and other countries around the world: Can You Keep A Secret?, The Undomestic Goddess, Remember Me?, Twenties Girl, I’ve Got Your Number, Wedding Night, and My Not So Perfect Life, which was a Goodreads Choice Awards finalist for Best Fiction in 2017.
they're so refreshing - the absolute best solution to cure reading slumps - so full of life, hilarious just to think about...Sure, they do have their faults.
That's how I can describe Kinsella's work best.In Remember Me we have the amnesia factor shoved into it, and having our mc trying to figure out her own life was worth the read.
it wasn't as funny as books such as Can you keep a secret OR The undomestic goddess for example, but it was still a pretty solid book that served its purpose.I keep on wanting to marathon this but I know I shouldn't because I'll be out of Kinsella's books in no time...
Tinha bastante curiosidade em ler alguma coisa da Sophie Kinsella e o resultado é que me diverti imenso :DD é um livro leve, descontraído, não dá vontade de o largar, pois estava super curiosa com a vida da Lexi que aterrou amnésica num conto de fadas e as reviravoltas que se iam suceder ....e fartei-me de rir, rir e rir :DD
I love Sophie Kinsella.
Whenever I read her novels, I can't help but think she seems like the kind of woman I'd be friends with.
She writes the way I think, and I can relate to at least one aspect of every single one of her characters.
I AM her demographic.I also love Kinsella's imaginitive plots.
In Remember Me?, Lexi wakes up in hospital with a head injury and quickly realizes she's lost three years of her memory.
It's a very lighthearted quick read, but you engage with the character of Lexi in a way that keeps you from putting the novel down.
Oke. Buku ini selesai gue baca hanya dalam waktu beberapa jam saja.Sebenernya bukan karena ceritanya yang menarik banget, tapi karena emang gue ngga bisa tidur aja.Untuk ukuran buku yang menceritakan tentang tokoh utama yang kena amnesia, buku ini ngga terlalu rumit untuk diikutin jalan ceritanya.*catatan: bukan tipe-tipe amnesia yang seperti di sinetron Indonesia yah.
Yang jatuh terguling-guling dari tangga, terus pas buka mata udah ada di rumah sakit dengan kepala diperban, dan bertanya-tanya sama semua orang yang ada di depan dia, "kamu siapa?
Cerita di buku ini tidak secetek itu.Awalnya gue juga berpikir sama seperti si tokoh utama di cerita ini, Lexi.
Hidup ngga akan seru kalau kita lupa seperti apa detail hari-hari yang kita lalui sebelumnya.Dan bagian yang paling menyenangkan dari semua itu adalah..
La verdad es que esperaba una novela algo más floja, pero Kinsella siempre me sorprende para bien.
Quizá hay partes que se hacen un poco pesadas, pero siempre levanta el vuelo un par de páginas más adelante.El libro trata sobre la amnesia que sufre la protagonista después de un accidente.
Quizá la trama de la madre y de la hermana es un poco forzada, esas han sido las partes que más me ha costado leer.
Como lectora esperaba un final diferente y me he encontrado con uno que me ha gustado incluso más que el que yo pensaba.
It's not the waking up in hospital that freaks out Lexi Smart. It's the fact that she's got nails to die for, porcelain veneers, a glossy mane of hair, a Louis Vuitton handbag, she's Manager of a whole department ... and, oh yes, she's married to a drop-dead gorgeous millionaire husband.The only drawback she can see is that she's aged three years. But then so has her mother and (not-so-now) little sister.How the hell did all that happen?And what happened to the last three years?To read the rest of this review (and more!), please visit Trashionista
4.5 starsThis was so much fun, and I devoured it so quickly. I think I'm becoming a Kinsella fan!! I can't wait to read more of her books. They are just so light and wonderful, and I know I can depend on them to totally capture me.
Tal como a protagonista, ficamos muito impressionadas com estes desenvolvimentos e, graças ao bom senso que faltou a Lexi, igualmente desconfiadas!Quanto mais descobre sobre esta Lexi de 28 anos, mais distante lhe parece daquilo que se lembra de ser e sente que é.
Assim, além do desespero de ter perdido um grande pedaço da sua vida - um pedaço muito importante, ao que parece - Lexi acaba por ter que representar um papel.Não ajuda que a irmã que Lexi recorda com tanto carinho seja agora uma adolescente desbocada que só se mete em sarilhos, nem que a mãe, de uma insensibilidade assustadora, frustre, sem sequer reparar, as tentativas de Lexi de descobrir mais sobre si mesma.
I enjoyed that :)This book was cute and quirky!
;)Questions, comments, and/or concerns:1) Why are nearly all of Sophie's characters somehow involved in really big business?
It's starting to get pretty old:-Lexie, director in a large enterprise-Lara Lington, owns funny business, uncle is a millionaire CEO and boyfriend is millionaire businessman.-Poppy, fling Sam Roxton owns big business.-Emma, works large enterprise, boyfriend works in same enterprise, later boyfriend/lover is CEO of same enterprise.2) The ending.
(view spoiler)[I'm not buying the fact that she fell back in love with John.
(hide spoiler)]3) hahahaha Eric is so out of the picture xD
Really good chick lit/women's fiction about what drives a person to change their life around...and the repercussions one then regrets.The main character, Lexi, suffers amnesia after a car accident and can't remember the last three years.
Her last memory was of her self as a loser with a loser life...but she wakes up to a hunk of a husband, a promotion at work, and a new look.
Seems perfect, right, but she soon discovers it's not and has to figure out what made her change before she can make it better...and decide who she really wants to be.This book is a fun, quick read that I'd recommend and didn't want to put down.
This book was so satisfying, I actually closed the book and sighed when it was over. I love Sophie Kinsella. She's just a guilty pleasure. I know this is not great literature, some of her characters are one-dimensional (Eric, the husband) and I can always see the end coming a mile away, but I just feel so good after reading one of her books.
I can always count on Sophie Kinsella's books for a delightful escape, and this one is no exception. Her newest heroine, Lexi, is just as lovable as her others, and she has retained the knack of making me laugh out loud and tear up at the same time. When you finally learn about the sunflower reference on the cover, I hope it takes your breath away as it did for me. Enjoy this charming story!
3.5 stars. Not bad, I enjoyed the fun amnesia aspect.
