https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233330.A_Solitary_Blue
😊Book number 3 in this series moves us away from the Tillerman family, and we meet Jeff and his father.
He quickly decides to just get on with things, that his mother's abandonment 'doesn't make any difference' to him.But a few years later when his mother gets in touch to invite Jeff to visit her in her hometown for the Summer, Jeff jumps at the chance to leave behind his stuffy and unemotional father and be reunited with his mother.He has a wonderful summer, meeting his peculiar great-grandmother, Gambo and his Aunts, exploring Charleston and discovering his family heritage.
This is possibly my favorite book of the Tillerman Cycle.
As ever, Cynthia Voigt's story and language are beautifully interdependent.
Jeff's growth from terrified little boy to self-assured young man is by no means easy or without twists and turns, and he reaches that point after heartache and several reevalutations of himself and the other people in his life -- so it's like real life, something Voigt writes about with assurance.
I'm bowled over again, and I didn't think that was possible with a followup novel, so I'm going to try - probably unsuccessfully - to chronicle a little bit of Voigt's skill.I suppose the place to start is the writing.
Their loss.) There's not only the way Jeff shares a teacher with Dicey, a teacher immediately identifiable (Voigt must have known she had a great supporting character there; some of this series' most powerful moments happen in that English class).
Sometimes a solitary blue heron will visit the pond, a reclusive bird that stalks along the edge of the water.
Now I realize that one of the reasons I find blue herons so fascinating is that I read this book 20 years ago.Jeff Green is like the solitary blue heron.
How can you protect yourself from manipulation, and still show love?Weighty matters for a child's book, but grim as the subject may be, I suspect it is not an unusual situation.
The book can be a stand-alone (I didn't suspect it was part of series when I first read it).
A beautiful and sobering illustration of why isolation is so seductive in times of pain or brokenness; equally compelling in its call for healing through connections with others. This novel was probably the most genuine and nuanced piece of writing I read in my youth, and it taught me as much about character (both having it and lacking it) as any of the classics.
It looks like there are no more in audio, which is disappointing.It's the first in the Tillerman Cycle to turn its focus away from Dicey Tillerman and her family, and previews the way Voigt will interweave the different stories, for it is here we find the beginnings of a concrete 'Dicey's Song.'That's not the only connection to the first two books, but this one is a far more stand-alone project.
Okay, after reading this book I was forced to come to the wonderful conclusion that Cynthia Voigt could do no wrong and she was, in all likelihood, a perfect author and perfect human.
My heart broke a dozen times (and more) while reading this as I experienced the pain that Jeff felt from loving his mother and slowly coming to realize that her love for him was just not the same.
The storyline was almost unfathomably deep and fully realized, par for the course when it comes to books written by Cynthia Voigt.
As is the case for Dicey's Song, A Solitary Blue truly ranks up there with the greatest books that I have read in my entire life.
The book kicks off with Jeff’s mom, Melody, gone—having left a note to him about the work she has to do to save the world.
It’s not until the next summer that we saw how crappy of a mom she really is, but in that time a friend of the Professor’s (Jeff’s dad) helps him become a better father.
It’s not important—the important thing is that I don’t know what his damn book was about.
Jeff says he’s honored when he sees the book is dedicated to him and then he reads it.
I wasn’t sure going in how I would like this book since the story was no longer about the Tillermans, but it was such a strong story and Jeff and his dad were such interesting characters that it didn’t matter.
Sometimes during the story I just wanted to shake Jeff (or the Professor or Melody) so they would change how they were acting, but since I couldn’t do that, I had to let them figure things out on their own.
I was glad when the Tillermans came back into the story, but I was also glad that the story didn’t become about them; it was Jeff’s story the whole time.
I really did like this story.
This story starts out with a shock and breaks your heart with wave after wave of uNina Gina be happenings, for me at least.
I could not believe a mother could do what she does to her son in this story.The young man and his father in this story really wrapped themselves around my heart.
It took a long time, but the story unfolded so wonderfully, and the characters grew into such wonderful people that it was hard to let them go at the end.
Cynthia Voigt can create such beautiful settings for her stories, that you feel, hear, and smell everything right along with her characters.
This book reaches into my heart and holds.
I wouldn't call it my *favorite* book--it's too painful a read for that.
But it is the book that reflects me the most, on the inside, as I was growing up, essential aspects of what my childhood was like and how I survived it.
Books like that are important and rare.
I continually look for mirrors and visions of who I am and who I could be in books, and almost never find them.
I'm glad to have read it again, the first book I finished in 2016.

Another 4.5 stars. I didn't think I would enjoy this one as much as it focuses on Jeff Greene, a friend of the Tillermans. But I got so sucked into his story I didn't even miss the other characters! Can I just say Jeff's mom gives me the creeps? I enjoyed getting to see the Tillermans more in the end, but thought the story stood alone well without them. These are powerful stories and themes for young adults (and grown-ups too)!
It is very hard to write a review for this book. It is like writing a review of a point in my life or of a person you have been. This is the first book I read that really mattered. Not an escapist book but a book that reached down and saw me where I was in life and said "you are not alone." I have been Jeff and Dicey and part of me will always be them.
this is one of my favorite books of all time! I have read it over and over and never tire of it. I love the way Cynthia Voigt writes and enjoyed all the books in the Tillerman series!
I loved "Dicey's Song" and "Homecoming" and had to read this next one also.Jeff Greene has a dysfunctional family (in the years when the term was not widely used).
Most of the book is the story of Jeff's mother coming back into the picture once he is older, and her attempts at re-forging relationships, motives, and the interplay of this broken family.The author is very talented at getting into the heart of her characters!
: ) and can't wait to read the next one in the series.
Solitary Blue is quite possibly one of the saddest stories I have ever read. The writing is solid, and the characters evolve in such a way that the reader practically folds into themselves to keep up. It is really the story of human tenacity and resilience, and the fragility of love.
I’ve read this book many times, and I still stayed up late to finish it. Really, that’s all I need to say, right?
The other character I didn't like was not nearly as extreme as Melody, but very predictable, just as cruel, and not really in the story very much.
I would have given it 1 star based on those two characters and the typos; however, the story is so beautifully written.
The protagonist, Jeff, who is in second grade, comes home from school to find a note from his mother stating she has left him to fend for himself.
The author describes Jeff's pain, struggles, love, anger, and psychological/emotional growth so very well.
That's almost the only thing he thinks about the next year.But when he goes to his mom's the next summer, she's too busy to spend much time with him.
He spends the summer lonely and alone, realizing that his mother doesn't love him, she only wants him when it suits her purposes or she needs money.The rest of the book goes through Jeff's journey to find himself, make peace with who he is and who his parents are, and make his place in the world.
Jeff was abandoned by his beloved mother when he was only seven years old, and spent his life with his father whom he calls the Professor.
The Professor is aloof and for most of his life Jeff is left on his own, until one summer his mother invites him to come stay with her.
Jeff then has to come to term with his mother's abandonment and rebuild his relationship with his father.
This book is very interesting when read after Dicey's Song because it tells part of the same story from the perspective of Jeff instead of Dicey.
After reading the other laudatory reviews for this book I feel a bit guilty for giving it only 3 stars.
However, I just didn't find Melody to be a believable character.
In the first half of the book I was very empathetic with Jeff, my heart aching for him, but the second summer in Charleston stretched my credulity too thin.
I was also frustrated with Jeff's passivity, especially following Melody's visit to Crisfield, and how he lets everything in his life go until he processes his FEELINGS.
I did appreciate how unusual his character is in YA novels, however, especially contrasted with Dicey.
A Solitary Blue was definitely one of my favorite books that i have read this year.
I liked how some things in the book i could relate to in real life.
I noticed how similar the main character's relationship with his father was like my mom and my grandfather's relationship.
My feelings about different characters changed as the story went on as well as the main character's.
What I liked most about this book though was that it wasn't just for entertainment, it had more of a purpose.
I have read many good books this year but this particular one stands out the most.
I loved this book - the writing style, the characters, the complexity and depth - everything about it.
I didn't recognize the name of the author when I began reading and didn't realize until 2/3 of the way through the book that it intersects with Dicey's Song, which I read years ago and also loved.
A Solitary Blue is excellent and is complete on its own."It strikes me that love is just the beginning.
I think we can't help loving, but what matters is what we do about it.
What love does with us." (pg 295)
What love does with us." (pg 295)
I didn't like this book as much as the other books in the series. I don't know if it was because of the character shift or just because this one was so different. I thought it was interesting to focus on Jeff and his struggles, but there were times in the book that didn't hold my attention very much. I wanted more depth to this book. Maybe I just didn't care for it because the main character wasn't my favorite. I wouldn't recommend.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2010...
Since Cynthia Voight's books are not in my usual genre, I've been trying to figure out why I like them so much.
I figured out that one reason is because her books are so well written that you have to read every word.
I was trying to finish this book quickly, because I had a book club on it, but skimming it really didn't work.
Everything in there was important to the story and to the development of the characters.
I really loved seeing Jeff overcome the major challenges he faced as a child and turn out to be a very sensitive and compassionate young adult.
This is the first book I ever read in a day. I was in the 6th grade. Nineteen years later, this is still one of my favorite books. I have revisited many of the things I loved as a child, only to be disappointed (the MacGyver series, anyone?). Not so with this book or anything by Cynthia Voigt. In A Solitary Blue, your affections towards the characters change over time and end up in a very different place from where they started. A brilliant trick that teaches young readers the value of withholding their assumptions about others.
I read this trilogy in 7th or 8th grade. I loved it then but I understand now. Voigt covers some difficult issues--mental illness, divorce, poverty, racial bias, for example--and lets the reader see inside characters as well as Wallace Stegner does--using simpler words. She "gets" people--all different kinds of people. You see the good, the bad, and the changes. Voigt's characters seemed so real to me she had me shifting allegiances throughout the book. Wow.
A lovely and very fast-moving book (especially for such quiet, non-dynamic characters and plot). I was disappointed, at first, when I found out that this wasn't about Dicey, but I think I liked it better than either Homecoming or Dicey's Song. Have you read this, Kathleen? I think you'd be interested in the parts that take place in the south.
I usually do not like sad books but it got-- not necessarily happy but satisfying-- by the end. I enjoyed watching him and also his father grow. His father was not a very likable character at the beginning but by the end of the book you can see how much he loves his son and despite his difficulties in communicating it, you can tell he is trying.
