https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158510.Samantha_Learns_a_Lesson
This was my favorite of the Samantha books because of the strong social message and the effortless way in which it is executed.
In the other books, Nellie is often portrayed as a helpless, lower class child in desperate need of whatever aid super-rich Samantha is generous enough to offer her.
In this tale, however, she turns from Samantha's grateful student into her much-needed teacher with that unforgettable line brimming with conviction: "It's just not true." It's not easy to write a children's story about classism, child labor, and being critical of America's "progress" at the turn of the century, but it's a very important story to tell.
Despite the appeal of the dolls, I remember this series more than satiated my thirst for books when I was younger.
Not only were the stories entertaining and not only did each of the different girls feel like my friends, but each of the girls taught about different eras in America's history without reading too much like a textbook.
With this book in particular, I liked the ultimate "lesson" that Samantha learns and I liked that despite Samantha's higher social status, she still considered Nellie and her family to be some of her closest friends.
This book was cool to read because they talked about the factories that I had previously not known about when I first read these books but now since APUSH I've learned more about them and it was more interesting to read about now to see what I actually learned from that class 😂😂
The book begins with Samantha in private school.
After school she usually played with her best friend Nellie but Nellie moved away.
Nellie is a servant girl that use to work in a factory and then next door at the Ryland house.
This was a surprise to Samantha and she was very happy to have her best friend just doors away from her.
Samantha essay was chosen one of two as the winners to be read in front of the whole town.
The artistic elements are there; line is shown in the dresses of the girls pressed almost stiff.
Texture of cotton is also shown in the well pressed dresses.
I think that Samantha grows in this book, but she also has more respect for Grandmary when she over hears what Grandmary says to Mrs. Eddleton. I also think that both Nellie and Samantha learn a lot from each other. That is what true friends do.
I find Samantha's speech on progress at the end of the book so inspiring and still, sadly, quite timely.
My 9yo says. "Wonderful!"
this book is full of selflessness
When I saw the title of this book I just had to read it because I know someone named Samantha. I will pass this book on to Samantha now that I’ve read it. I never had any daughters and this is my first experience with the American Girls Collection of books. I liked the quality of the book and the writing was very good. I particularly liked the ‘lesson’ learned as well and the historical section in the back. A series I’d recommend for young girls.
Another cute story in the American Girl: Samantha series. In this one, Samantha learns a little something about her privilege through the eyes of her friend Nellie, a girl from a poor family who used to work in a factory before Samantha's grandmother found the family servant work in a house two doors down.We also see Nellie's very first opportunity to attend school and the problems that entails.
Nice little book, good messages. Saw this book in a local library ‘free’ shelf and since my daughter-in-law’s name is Samantha, I picked it up. I decided to read it before giving to her and I enjoyed it. What a nice series. My granddaughter is too young yet but hopefully some day I will give her an American Girl doll.
same with my other post about this but not as long. I really enjoy how these books as a series flow in to one another. It is not something I am used to reading and wonder if more childrens books are like this.
I liked Samantha's enthusiasm to help teach Nellie, her friend who wasn't able to go to school. I like that in the Samantha books, there is a little fact section in the back which tells true stories about what it would have been to live in Samantha's life time. (Sophie, Age 9)
It's another good American Girl book. Kept up my interest. Historically accurate which I really appreciate.
The bait and switch of the speech was marvelous.
I remember this book vividly from my childhood and it seemed to be pretty impactful on my 6 yr old as well.
When Samantha’s privileged point-of-view was challenged, she didn’t double down on what she said. Instead, she listened to Nellie’s story and learned from it.
Reading through some of these again. Nice little stories...
If you love American Girl and/or history then you'll love this. I enjoyed it a lot especially since i like history.
Nellie is Back in mount Bedford with her whole family! She and her sisters are starting school! But when Nellie has trouble in school Samantha steps up to help teach her so she can catch up with kids her age. While Samantha's school has a speaking contest about "Progress in America", Nellie helps Samantha learn the truth about factories. I think I like this one better than the first. I sure like Grandmary a lot better in this book for sticking up for Nellie. I like the books better than the movie.
Samantha is once again able to see her friend Nellie who has now enrolled at the same school, but in a lower grade.
She's made fun of by the other students and Samantha decides to help her in learning her lessons so she can get up to the next grade quickly.The school is also going to hold a public speaking contest, the them of which is Progress in America.
In the initial round Samantha and Edith win the qualifying round but then have to go on to an inter-school competition.What complicates matters tremendously for Samantha is that her original speech was in praise of the factories, but then she finds out from Nellie just what working in the factories is really like since Nellie had to work in one.
For a school competition she composes a speech addressing the plight of children workers in factories.
In the process, she learns about the joy and satisfaction of speaking up for those who don't have a voice.Reasons to Read:- This book does a fairly good job capturing the time period and includes some historical detail that is interesting.
- Good depiction of children helping each other.
:) I think it would definitely be enjoyable for youngsters, though, and I did appreciate the effort the author put into developing the characters a bit and the historical detail she subtly wove into the story.Possible Objectionable Content:Use of the word "dickens"; children passing notes in school behind teachers back with no consequences; mention of injuries of children working in factories.Grades 2-4
Samantha Learns A Lesson2nd-6th gradeThe illustrators Niles and Grace use few pictures to support the story.
Some of the pictures are small and each graphic is different such as one is black and white then the following one looks similar to a photograph and then further into the story they resemble paintings.
There is very little white space because of the lengthy text.
A child reading this book may cue in on differences in wording such as instead of living room they use the word parlor and Grandmary instead of Grandmother.
This book is a great example of how sometimes lessons are learned through friendship.
Samantha's Grandmother was able to help Nellie (Samantha's friend from book one) and her family get a better job working as household servants to the family two doors down.
Even though Nellie is an older child she has to start off in second grade, since she has had to work in factories much of her life instead of attending school.
After Nellie finishes her many chores they have a second day of school in Samantha's attic room.
I do enjoy to quality of character and spirit of both these young girls from very different backgrounds.
It is about how Nellie is finally getting the chance to go to school, but when she gets there people are teasing her because she cannot read or write like the other kids.
So instead of doing the speech Samantha prepares for the contest she writes a new one about Nellie and her hard life and how people child workers should not be treated that way.
I love this book because Samantha never sits back and does nothing when she is faced with a problem she acts on it even when her family and teachers are against it, she works hard to change their minds.
In this book Nellie and her family comes back to work in a house that is two doors down from Samantha.
Nellie and her sisters started school along with Samantha.
Because Nellie had not been to school she was the oldest girl in the second grade and did not like it because the teacher was mean and the kids teased her.
I thought Samantha has a big heart because she decided to teach Nellie everything so she could move up a grade.
She is very caring towards her friends.
Samantha also learned a lot about how children truly worked in the factories.
Samantha Parkington is more fortunate than most orphans; she lives with her wealthy Grandmary and attends the prestigious Miss Crampton's Academy. Samantha's friend Nellie has returned with better circumstances and is now enrolled in public school. Although Samantha's friendship with Nellie, a servant, is questioned and ridiculed, Samantha continues to tutor and help Nellie adjust to school. But it is Nellie who teaches Samantha the true meaning of American progress!The "Looking Back" section of this historical novel addresses education in private and public schools.
I read this in 4th or 5th grade & didn't realize til later the powerful theme of social justice involved! Samantha sets out tutoring her friend Nellie in reading, but when she "rehearses" a speech about how factories are a wonderful innovation, she learns that Nellie & some of Nellie's young & younger friends & acquaintances have actually worked in factories, some who got injured in the days before workers' comp. So then Samantha "edits" her speech to speak out against the social injustice of child labor, & makes more than a good grade--she makes a difference!
one of the things that I love about the American Girl books is that the girls tend to form friendships that transcend, race, class, political beliefs, and general circumstances.
In this book Samantha’s friend Nellie reappears since her parents have been hired as servants for a family that lives just a few houses away.
Nellie and her sisters begin going to school which is a struggle for Nellie since she’s never been to school before and doesn’t know how to read.
Samantha decides she’s going to teach Nellie to read and along the way she learns what Nellie’s life as a working child was like.
This is a very good book in the "American girl" series, involving Samantha and her experiences in school. Her friend, Nellie, returns and makes a big impact on Samantha's perspective of the topic of "Progress in America." Samantha has an opportunity to write a speech on this topic and her research provides an opportunity to describe the technology at the time. It makes the plot feel a little stilted, but otherwise, it's a terrific story. We are looking forward to reading more stories in this series.
