https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6433752-the-lacuna
I started it and had so much trouble reading it that I put it down and didn't even want to pick it back up.
A couple of people couldn't finish it, but the majority gave it good reviews.
Ugh. For the life of me, I couldn't figure out its appeal!!I just Googled it and found a NPR review that made me feel much better.
And then I was reading about him from his diaries.
Apparently he's famous later on and meets famous people like Diego Riviera, Frida Kahlo and Lev Trotsky, but the book is just so friggin' BORING!!!!
Considering that the stable of characters includes Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, it takes some effort to make them dull.The Lacuna is Kingsolver’s attempt at a grand historical novel.
He connects briefly with his father in Washington DC and is enrolled in a private academy where latent interests come to the fore.My favorite passage in the book occurs then, a thrilling scene of MacArthur and Patton attacking American WW I veterans who were demanding the payment that had been promised to them for their participation in World War I, the Bonus Army.
The story is told as the collected journals of Harrison Shepherd, put together after his death by his secretary and friend Violet Brown.
His journals are all in the 3rd person, nothing ever happens directly to Harrison.
Harrison's personal life seems to happen far in the background, while in front of us the FBI and the Un-American commitee are hunting down communist sympathisers.
Harrison Shepherd and Violet Brown may never have existed, but these events too place, these things happened to someone.
For reals.This novel showed me about:McCarthyism: how could we force people to value our government over theirs by silencing, condemning, and violating all of the personal freedoms that make our country so great?The Bonus Army: How did I learn about this terrible event in high school (I had to have, right?) without remembering it?
Being gay when hardly anyone around you thinks that is okayCensorship & other oppressive behaviorArtists, especially Frida & DiegoA lot of ancient Mexican historyIntegrityMy favorites (I'm being vague so as not to spoil the plot) a) when a character protested a violating probe by invoking our personal rights guaranteed to Americans, and the agent responded with something to the effect of, "No American talks like that; that's how I know you're a communist." HA!
Additionally, and you may not have known this, brace yourselves, but the House Un-American Activities Committee was BAD (NOOOooooooo I've blown your mind!!).
Oh, and just so I am not coming off as some kind of dumbass "America: Love it or Leave it" type I have no problem when American wrongdoings such as the internment/concentration camps for Japanese or the aforementioned Committee are rightfully brought to task, but it almost offends me when its done so lazily and without even the slightest attempt to think about why these things happened beyond "most Americans are sheep who like to buy stuff".
This is the story of Harrison William Shepherd, the son of a Mexican mother, and an American father.
The father is indifferent to the boy, and his mother longs for romance and adventure, so she returns to Mexico with the boy.The book is written as if it is a diary or journal of Harrison's life from his earliest memories.
He details his life in Mexico, where through a series of events, he becomes the cook in the household of Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera.
The description of life in the Kahlo-Rivera household, as well as the personality of Leo Trotsky and his wife made it especially interesting to me.

About a week before I started reading Lacuna, my friend asked me when I thought Barbara Kingsolver was going to write a gay character.
Little did we know...The fascinating part of Shepherd's homosexuality, of his entire character really, is how it is revealed.
Shepherd is a poet and though his journals often reflect that, the book is presented as a collection of "nonfiction" journal entries, newspaper articles, and archivist's notes.
(I skimmed over some of the newspaper articles, I'll admit it.) But I fell in love with Shepherd and my heart was with his all the way through.
3 1/2 starsThe two sections of this book are different enough that it could almost be reviewed as two separate books.
They really are THAT different.First 275 pages or so = 4 starsFinal 230 pages or so = 2 stars Kingsolver is at the peak of her descriptive powers in the first part of the book.
Add to that the real characters of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera, and Lev (Leon) Trotsky, and it makes for an intriguing story.
Try making a story from a collection of letters, news articles, and journal entries.
I understand Kingsolver's agenda for the book.
The only disappointing thing about this book was that I finished it, and have no new Kingsolver books to look forward to.
As always, her writing is exquisite.
I found myself re-reading parts just to savor her use of language.The Lacuna is a novel based on real events in history--the Mexican artists Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo and the period in the 1930's when Trotsky was exiled in Mexico.
I learned a lot while enjoying a good story, not really sure where it was heading--but oh!
does it come together in the end in a way that took my breath away.
Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo, Mexico, Leo Trotsky, Committee on Unamerican Activities: The Lacuna is a wealth of information on these topics.
Kingsolver's wonderful telling of his tale and those whose lives cross his path is insightful, humorous and full of pathos.
I was, by turn, amused then saddened by his story; Harrison may have been a fictional character but many lives were shattered by the Committee on UnAmerican Activities and Edgar J Hoover and his band of merry men and those activities.
A good place for Kingsolver beginner to start and a great place for her fans to continue reading her magical novels.

As a youth, Harrison becomes involved with the painters Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo and subsequently with their friend, Leon Trotsky, who is in hiding in Mexico from Stalin's execution squads.
Impressed by the American lifestyle, he decides to stay and manages to create a new career for himself as an extremely successful novelist, only to be denounced as a Communist in the McCarthyite witch-hunts while at the height of his popularity.It's a cleverly structured and beautifully crafted book with an emotionally satisfying ending that I did not see coming until the last few pages.
I really liked the first part (roughly half) of this book about a boy (Harrison)who is being raised by a mother who eeks out an existence by sponging off the men she manages to ensnare.
The setting is 1930's Mexico.
The second half of the book completely switches gears.
The setting is Asheville NC where Harrison is living the life of a semi-recluse and writing historical novels during the time of the Red Scare.
The second half of the book was more of a lecture/essay in the thin guise of a novel.
Lots of lecturing conversations and little if any subtlety.
This is quite the novel, as full and satisfying as anything I've read in some time. Its picture of Mexico in the 30's is spot on, and the characters of Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo, and Lev Trotsky feel fresh and sharp. The political correctness which bored me in Barbara Kingsolver's novels seem naive has developed--she's showing, not preaching. A wonderful read by an author who is at her best.
Over the past 15 years, I have read most of Kingsolver.
NPR stated, "Lacuna refers to a gap or something that's absent.
The motif of the crucial missing piece runs throughout the novel, but the thing unintentionally missing here is an engaging main character." As an art historian I blame myself for these high expecations - either read fiction , or history.
In Kinsolver's latest novel the problem is two fold: First she mixes the diary/journals entries documenting the fictional Harrison Shepherd, the main character, with a political science lecture on the History of Mexico.
The Lacuna was a sweeping and epic work of literary fiction that spans from Mexico to Washington, D.C. to Asheville, North Carolina combining history and fiction and taking place from the 1930's to the 1950's. This is the intricate tale of fictional character Harrison William Shepherd with the background of people like Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, renowned Latin American artists, to Lev Trotsky and the rise of McCarthyism in the United States. There are beautiful literary and artistic references throughout and the lacuna is used metaphorically in this novel with great effect.
No. We, the book and I, just did not gel and that's it.What I appreciated:1) Historical background of Mexican history going back thousands of years, and American society between 1900 and more or less 1955: brilliant with enough detail to last a lifetime.2) The characters: The protagonist as introduced by Violet Brown, his personal assistant and last friend.
The middle part of the book, which I skipped from page 188, by reading mostly one sentence per paragraph, tiptoeing through 203 pages, yes, just finally convinced me to take off the damn boots and leave the pain behind.
I tried & tried & tried to like this book...I am a huge Kingsolver fan so I expected it would grow into something wonderful.
But when he ended up in the US with his weird father & unpleasant characters, I forced myself to finish the first 100 pages & then stopped...it took me 3 struggling weeks to get to that point, I feel like I gave it a fair shake.
It wasn't the usual Kingsolver book, full of natural wonders but rather a more human/society tale.
It is only one of two books that I have stopped before finishing in my entire life, it just wasn't working for me!
This one is so close to being 5 stars.
Ranging from the 1930s Mexico of Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo, and (exiled) Lev Trotsky to the 1950s America of J.
Edgar Hoover, this book uses an epic backdrop to tell the story of one solitary, forgotten man.
The dozen or so different formats (including journals, book reviews, letters, newspaper articles, and transcripts) are deftly handled and perfectly paced.
And maybe best of all is Kingsolver's sensational portrait of Frida Kahlo.
I'd recommend this one to pretty much anybody, whatever your usual tastes - it's just a damn good story.
Shepherd seeks solace from his emotional isolation through books, exploring nature, and a special friendship with the surrealist artist, Frida Kohl.
Eventually he assumes the role as a cook and secretary in Kohl's household in Mexico with her husband and fellow artist Diego Rivera.
The role of art as personal versus political expression gets explored through the plot.
The focus of the tale on Shepherd's life gets a bit diluted for awhile with the major historical figures on the stage.
Still, I was pleased with the portrayal of the personal life of a charming character with integrity and emotional zest against the backdrop of historical progressions in art and politics.
This is my first and so far, only book by Barbara Kingsolver. She writes beautifully, and I loved this strange story of a fictional gay man caught up in the real life struggles of Frieda Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Leon Trotsky - also the scathing indictment of McCarthyism in the final part. The story feels strangely incomplete, yet the final, unexpected twist was exquisite.I am determined to read more of this author's books.
As the story begins, so it ends.While Harrison Shepherd’s character is made up out of whole cloth, the reader will recognize many of the other characters in the book that lived at that time: Hoover, Churchill, Trotsky, Lenin, Stalin, Kahlo, Rivera, Truman, Nixon, McCarthy and so on.
Shepherd’s journals, diaries, and fictitious correspondence, primarily with Frida Kahlo, lead us on a journey through the period of his life in Mexico, when he lived with his mother and worked for the Riveras, until he was returned to his father in the United States and attended a military school.
And by the time the protagonist is writing books, receiving adulation and criticism in his homeland, I was reading the book on at least three levels: 1) paying attention to the protagonist's actions and reactions, 2)reviewing what I know of American history and culture from 1930-1951 through a different lens, and 3) listening to the protagonist's perspective on what it is to be a writer.Other reviewers have pointed out that Harrison Shepherd is a passive observer rather than active participant in his own life.
This book had some amazing segments. I listened on audio and am going to have to buy a hard copy just for some of the quotes and observations. But even though it was wonderfully read by the author, it went on too long. I thought it would never end. Therefore it's hard for me to recommend it.
When this Queen, Isabel La Catolica, died in 1504, Cortes did not arrive in Mexico before 1519 and he wrote to and shared the booty with Carlos V The Emperor.Napoleon did not invade Mexico he was having too many problems with the English it was Napoleon III a distant relation of Napoleon.Her words in Spanish are not spelled correctly, as far as I can see the word Lacuna does not exist in Spanish or not in the sense she uses it.
I'd not read Kingsolver before, but the first part of the story took place in Mexico, in the homes of Frida Khalo, Diego Rivera and Trotsky-- and I've been to those houses several times and was looking forward to reading about the people who had lived in them.
I enjoyed the first half of the book very much, but the second half -- after so much color and action -- fell flat.
Most of the story unfolded as rather obvious conversation between two characters.
It was almost as if it was a different book.
I think this is probably the best book I have read this year so far.I liked almost everything about it: the structure of the book, which is a mixture of journals of the main character, William Shepherd, since he was a boy until he becomes an adult, pieces written by the main narrator, Violet Brown (the supposed compiler of the book), and several newspaper clips.
The writing of adult Shepherd/Kingsolver is beautiful, the story is truly epic, covering important moments of Mexican and USA history, and Kingsolver does a very good job mixing fictional and historical characters in a very credible way.
As Violet Brown would say, my stars, what a great novel!
I had a hard time imagining this fictional character having a place in these actual historical events.
Around 75% into the book it really picked up and came together.
The ending was poignant and I really liked how all that information came together!
The historical accuracy was impressive (and quite interesting I found, in doing my side research)!
Having said all that, I am glad I read it and I don't feel it was a waste of time.
I learned a lot from this book, whether it be the interesting historical events or the profound comment on human nature and social and political evolution (or lack thereof).
Soon, he was living with Rivera and his wife, artist Frida Kahlo, helping with the cooking, mixing plaster, and typing correspondence.Lev Trotsky, who was hiding from Stalin's henchmen, was given shelter by the Riveras.
One monkey howls, then the others join in until the woods are ringing with a demonic howl.The book is written as a series of journal entries, newspaper clippings, letters, and notes by Shepherd's secretary.
The diary entries about Lev Trotsky and his philosophy were also interesting, although the book neglected to present the amount of violence he was associated with in Russia.
