https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817530.Thought_and_Language
The point is that you have to get the concept – based on the essential relationship that makes a brother a brother – for a related concept like ‘brother’s brother’ to make sense.There is a lovely experiment in this where they taught young children foreign words for various items of furniture – table, chair, cabinet and so on– and the children had no real difficulty in learning these words.
Essentially, Vygotsky is saying that word meanings develop and change through the life-history of the child and that this development is linked to the child’s ability to think in increasingly more general ways about the world in which they live.So, there is development and there is instruction.
یه کتاب خوب و مرجع و منبع در زمینۀ روانشناسی شناختی و زبانشناسی حساب میشه. کتابی که خوب تونسته این دو زمینه رو به هم پیوند بزنه. ویگوتسکی مطالعات گستردهای کرده؛ درین حد که توی این کتاب از داستایوفسکی و تولستوی مثال میآره و از یه طرف دیگه خیلی خوب هم دیدگاههای رفتارگرایی، گشتالتی و مکتب روسیه(که ما نخونده بودیمش) و پیاژه رو هم میدونه و نقدشون میکنه. نمیشه از زبان حرف زد و اسمی از ویگوتسکی نیوورد.
یه کتاب خوب و مرجع و منبع در زمینۀ روانشناسی شناختی و زبان‌شناسی حساب می‌شه. کتابی که خوب تونسته این دو زمینه رو به هم پیوند بزنه. ویگوتسکی مطالعات گسترده‌ای کرده؛ درین حد که توی این کتاب از داستایوفسکی و تولستوی مثال می‌آره و از یه طرف دیگه خیلی خوب هم دیدگاه‌های رفتارگرایی، گشتالتی و مکتب روسیه(که ما نخونده بودیمش) و پیاژه رو هم می‌دونه و نقدشون می‌کنه. نمی‌شه از زبان حرف زد و اسمی از ویگوتسکی نیوورد.
Vygotsky is to Piaget as Wittgenstein is to St. Augustine.Puzzle over that one, why don't you?What is taken for granted in any system of thought is often the thing most in need of explanation.
but how are they doing it?"St. Augustine, meanwhile, espoused a view of language that was (and is) emblematic of what Ludwig Wittgenstein would centuries later call, "the picture that holds us captive." St. Augustine talked about language as being a simple case of reference and referent: the word "chair" points to the thing "chair." But this view of language -- like Piaget's view of childhood language learning -- misses the point that a huge rule-following substructure is necessary.
يبتدئ فيجوتسكي طرحه بنقد نظرية بياجيه وشترن قبل أن يفصل في نظريته حول الفكر والفكر اللفظي واللغة مرك
This was one of the first books I read about linguistics. Little did I know when I first started reading it, Thought and Language, was to start a life-long passion for the subject. When I was teaching young children, every day was a chance to be in a linguistics lab This book is a wonderful way for anyone to start learning about theories of linguistics.
I could tell you that I am done reading this, but as an education student, I will never be done reading this. This is a foundational text, and deserves to be so.
Como yo ya daba clases de facto toda esa teoría tampoco resultaba de alguna utilidad en el aula.Pero una notable excepción fue este libro, junto con algunos textos de Piaget y quizás los de la Educación para la Comprensión que fueron notablemente útiles en mi área de enseñanza.El enfoque de Vygotsky sobre cómo comprendemos, y el papel del lenguaje, me abrió un nuevo abanico de ideas para comprender cómo aprenden los alumnos; y me fue muy útil luego al trabajar en un colegio bilingüe, donde los alumnos aprenden ciencias en una lengua que no es su lengua materna.
Dense. Hard to read. But, the theory behind it seems good. I'll definitely have to re-read after I learn more about psychology.
Stile di scrittura logico e lineare. Ho amato particolarmente gli esempi soprattutto quelli tratti dai libri e romanzi russi più famosi. La parte più interessante: la settima, in risposta agli studi di Piaget sul linguaggio egocentrico
Obra esencial para quienes ahondan en la psicología genética.Junto con Jean Piaget es uno de losgrandes pensadores en esta materia. Por otra parte establece la relación entre el desarrollo de la inteligencia y el entorno cultural y social.
‘Thought and Language’ (Revised) the first few opening chapters are concerned with the problem of analyzing the relationship between both thought and speech.
If we assume that what Vygotsky is looking at, in simple terms is the ‘Meaning of word’ or the ‘Word Meaning’, we can deduce that he is primarily interested in the study of semantics.He outlines in this book the problems with analyzing these component parts separately.
He feels mainly that because they are interconnected they should not be separated into constituent parts, but studied as a whole.
While this is my least favorite form of reading, it is essential.
If only those making decisions about American public education would pick up this Russian psychologist and read his work...
I appreciated that Vygotsky took the various psychological schools, gave a brief history, and then explained their short-comings as he saw it.
I really appreciated that he took Piaget's theory of development and explained the short-comings according to his scientific research.
I really liked the examination of language and thought both in relation to how pre-school children develop and how we can use that information in the classroom.
It's all there... language use by primates by language-delayed children, critique of Piaget, Tolstoy's views of education, the co-evolution of thought and language. And yes, zones of proximal development is mentioned. But it's such a small part, I'm surprised that it is what is mainly highlited. This was very easy to read because it came quickly to the conclusions. However, I would like easier access to the research that lay behind the conclusions. A very worthwhile read.
The most important application of Vygotsky's theory to education is in his concept of a zone of proximal development. This concept is important because teachers can use it as a guide to a child's development. It allows a teacher to know what a student is able to achieve through the use of a mediator and thus enables the teacher to help the child attain that level by themselves.
Vygotsky deconstructs Piaget, shows knowledge about Montessori and presents us with theories that took too long to solidify in the western world. The last chapter goes from Tolstoi, to Gogol, to Dostoievsky... Brilliant from a linguistic pov.
really theoretical, technical psychological analysis of the relation between thought and language... i honestly don't have huge desires to finish it:(
Takes a while to digest, but well worth the effort.
holy cow! if you want to get really theoretical about language acqusition read this. it is all about how thought and language come into being in people and how they are related. neat!
Excelente livro do psicólogo russo que aborda temas capitais da psicologia.
Still one of the best books around on the relationship between thought and language.
In-depth exploration of the development of language, and it's connections to social context.
one of my professors at bmc was obsessed with vygotsky!
Dude, this book is tough. But interesting.
Excellent book when teaching children to read.
If you want to learn more about how language develops, you might as well read it from the guru. He writes like C.S. Lewis, so it takes a while to digest.
