https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260037.Whatever_Happened_to_Janie_
This is the 2nd book in the Janie Johnson series, and I loved it just as much as the 1st! In this book, Janie/Jenny is being forced to cut off ties with the family and friends she has spent her whole life with to move in with her rightful family. As you can assume, things don't go very well. Janie/Jenny does not adjust easily into this new life. I can't wait to read the rest of the series.
But thinking about it from Janie's perspective, the Springs are asking a lot of a fifteen year old kid.
They basically want her to turn on the people she spent almost her entire life with and believed were her parents, and want her to pretend the last twelve years never happened.
As someone who has come to believe that who you end up turning into as an adult is something of nature AND nurture, it made me empathize with Janie.
It's not like they spent 12 years torturing/abusing her -- they believed she was their granddaughter, the child of their lost-to-a-cult daughter.
"What normal decent person swaps families as easily as a pair of ice skates?" says fifteen year old Janie Johnson, or should I say Jennie Springs. In the first book, The Face On the Milk Carton, Janie recognizes her face on a milk carton as a three year old girl who was taken from a mall in New Jersey twelve years ago. She finds out that her parents are really her adoptive parents and Janie Johnson was kidnapped before she even met the Johnson's. So who's to blame? It's Hannah. Hannah Javensen,
"What normal decent person swaps families as easily as a pair of ice skates?" says fifteen year old Janie Johnson, or should I say Jennie Springs.
Cooney's gripping novel Whatever Happened to Janie is just as engaging as the first one because of how the author gets the reader to connect and feel for Janie and her family.
You just can't turn away from the book because you want to know if they ever find Hannah, if Janie ever starts to enjoy her real family in New Jersey, what happens to her boyfriend Reeve, and does she ever see the Johnson's again?
I don't remember what happened to Janie, but knowing Caroline B. Cooney , it was something excessively dramatic.
Being a person who staunchly opposes the idea that "family" only means the people who share your DNA, I really like that Cooney took the time to examine this.
Sometimes, you're needed elsewhere, by other people, and that may hurt everyone involved, but it can hurt marginally less if there is a reason to be part of another family, a family of different definitions.I also give absolute props to Cooney for the last five or so pages detailing the journey to New York for Hannah, who has done so much to ruin their lives.
Three-year-old Jennie Spring was kidnapped by the daughter of the Javenson family.
She wants to met her real parents in New Jersey, but she doesn’t want to upset or leave her parents that she only knew or existed for twelve years.
She wants to make everyone happy, but how will it feel to leave her old friends and boyfriend and move to a whole new, different environment with different people.
How about a living with new parents and three other brothers and a sister.
She doesn’t know what to do.
Cooney does a great job with this book by putting lots of mysteries and twists in it.
Even better than the first book.The first one was about finding answers to mysteries. This one is about finding a different kind of answers. Answers to things like "what now?" and "how do we go on?"Questions that never have simple answers.And this book doesn't pretend the answers are easy, and presents real people, who are awful to each other even when they are trying hard not to be.
This book was good as the first. You can't wait to see what happens, you feel emotionally torn like Janie... it's a book series that explores difficult emotions and the reality that there is so much complexity to any issue. You have to do what's best for you, even if it's not best for the majority. There aren't awards for suffering and that suffering hurts the people you're trying to protect... that in any reality, there are Multiple considerations to consider... Like book1, I'm desperate to immediately start the next.
You go thru her emotions of leaving the only family she ever knew to coming back to the family that missed and thought the worst of what happened to Janie.
It shows the struggles of all families that we may never think about.
It was a story that reasonated with me in that my parents divorced at a young age and I went to live with my dad.
I did however, move in with my mother when I was the same age as Janie and I reasonated well with all those emotions.
It was a very sureal time and the story showed the pain of both families.
It also showed the love of letting go.
I feel like I have invested myself enough into the series that I have to keep reading.
Although, I did find myself enjoying the second book in this series much more than the first.
There was still quite a bit of whiplash emotions, highs and lows, and quite a bit of them petty and ridiculous.
When I was fifteen, I felt like I was a grown up and should be able to make my own decisions.
In the end, I still would have reacted so differently than Janie.
So incredibly differently.
We will see what the third book brings.
Part 2 of the Janie series. I enjoyed reading all about the Spring family & how things were for the 12 years Janie was gone.
The Nineties were a special time, full of economic prosperity and invented fears - like being kidnapped by a member of Hare Krishna, I guess?
Eh, onto book 3.3.5 stars.
I thought it showed a pretty good understanding of how many of the characters would realistically feel, while leaving others undeveloped. Toward the end, with the FBI interrogation and the time in New York, that feels a little more oddly written and artificial, sometimes weird.
But it seems, whatever choice she makes it will hurt one of her families.I would say it has been at least 10 years or a little more since I read The Face on the Milk Carton and so I don't remember every detail of the book.
But she did not grow up with them and despite the many similarities, they feel like strangers to her.Janie does realize she cares for her birth family and doesn't want to hurt them.
I wish his point of view hadn't been like that.And I think this book really explores the topic of family.
This book is not what I expected. I expected a story about someone getting kidnapped, but instead, it was about a girl coming back home from fake parents. It kinda lacked action because it was just a storyline about people's feelings for Janie. I would not recommend this book.
After consulting with his lawyer sister, the Johnson family determined that their daughter Hannah had kidnapped the little girl and justice demanded that Janie should be returned to her biological family.Janie is overwhelmed, frightened, and angry at the idea of leaving her family, her friends, and her home to go to a family she knows nothing about.
When a policeman points out the tragic life of the homeless, they realize she has suffered more sorrow and pain than any of them as a result of her choices.This book draws the reader in from the begining and effectively portrays the complications that exist in familial relationships.
Janie is now living with the Springs, her biological family.
Janie was forced to move back into the Springs house because she is still a minor.
The only ones you know.
They've already lost one daughter, can they live through the loss of another?Either choice will hurt one family.
I get that Janie is forced by the court to go back to the Springs because she's still a minor but she doesn't even try to get to know them.
I understand her loyalty to her parents but I thought she was missing out on getting to know her biological family.
I don't know if Janie made the right choice.
Everyone expected her to be happy to be back, instead she acts depressed and wants her old parents back.
Her real parents, the Springs, try to compromise, but the problem is the little things like apple juice instead of orange juice in the morning and being expected to respond to Jennie instead of Janie.
The best part abut this book was that there was no way it was going to work out, and you knew that from the start.
A quick, one day read, but very complex and it makes you want more.
It is what happens to Janie after she finds out everything she does about her parents, where she came from and where she feels like she belongs.
It is a big test for Janie to she what she really wants as her life has been turned upside-down.
It is a book about her reaction and she treats those that love her.
My reaction: I liked it because I liked the first book so much.
I don't feel like it was the best plot ever.
I like how the author was able to portray Janie's life and situation so well.
Again the mystery was good and I enjoyed how realistic Janie/Jennie's reactions were.
I'd say as far as mystery goes this book wasn't as intriguing, but still a good read and a good sequel.It had by far less sexual innuendos and references compared to the first book, but enough I wouldn't advise this for anyone who considers that against their moral beliefs.
To be honest, for myself, I won't be reading the rest of the books because I suspect that will only get worse as Janie gets older.
Overall I'd say morally this book was better than the first but intrigue-wise a little less suspenseful.
Where first book lacked in dynamics this one nailed it.From the first few chapters it was so emotional and intense I didn't believe it was written by the same person.
I have a feeling that if this two were in one peace it would be so much more read than it is.I will think oof every person who meets Janie and her Connecticut family and doesn't die inside at the beginning of the book as a robot.A metal,cruel,programmed machine.
A brilliant book indeed
As I finished book one, I did feel compelled to continue on.
As the title states, I the reader DID wonder "whatever happened to Janie".
It was an interesting, and sad, read.
Just a happy/sad situation, imaginary as it was.
I think I liked this book better than the first.
There wasn't as much random thoughts from Janie (which rubbed me wrong in the first book).
I might have been happy calling it quits here, but a short portion of the next book was included ...
and I think I'll go ahead and continue reading about Janie's journey (once it comes in at the library).
It probably didn't help that I read this out of order, but I thought it was just a stand alone novel. The main character is moody and dramatic, which got annoying quickly. Instead of being happy over being with her really family she is a constant state of indecision about going back to the kidnappers or staying. This book got boring very quickly and I found myself struggling to read this. Would not recommend.
Just good that I had this second part of the series as well, cause after I finished the first book I wanted to know what happenend after Jamie finally called her real parents.The feeling of homesickness was understandable for me, I've lived in a 'foreign' family for a year as well - and it's just different from being really home.But I think they could have found a compromise where both families would have been happier. But it's just a book after all.
I think I actually liked this book better than the first in the series. The first one is a classic and wonderfully written... but Caroline Cooney never reveals what really happens to Janie... that story is reserved for this book. I think it was well done and realistically written and I'm thoroughly enjoying re-reading these books.
As the sequel to The Face on The Milk Carton, this book continues the story of Janie Johnson, who one day sees her face on the side of a milk carton, and next to it, MISSING. This book was equally as good as the first, and anyone who has already read the Face on The Milk Carton knows that it is impossible NOT to read the sequel!
I'll be honest, I liked the first part better.Although it was interesting to see the transition from Janie to Jennie, I found this book to be lacking a bit on the mystery side. Whereas the first book ended in a twist, this one just ended on a note. I wish the third one gets more interesting!
What if you found your face posted as missing? What would you do? That is the life of Janie Johnston or should I say Jennie Spring. As the nightmare continues Janie's life begins to spiral out of control. What will she do?
It was a really good book especially if you liked the first book.
