https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6693332-the-necromancer
I really think the alternate points of view do not help this series.
I really don't want to read about the bad guys having mundane conversations and plotting things.
Nothing of import is really happening with the secondary characters and I found myself skipping around hoping there would be a point.
If there weren't multiple points of view then this book would have been about 100 pages.
None of the characters have really progressed, and I won't be continuing this series.
Each book is the same: run from something, bad guy conversation, go get new powers, side character interlude, run from something, the end.
Otro gran libro de esta saga que se pone cada vez mejor y más oscura. Me fue imposible apartarme de la historia hasta terminarla. Adictiva, dinámica, ligera y extraordinaria.
What started out as a powerful force with a clear heading and characters that were often connected, has now plummeted downward to an end of some sort, but throughout the journey, the flow is fragmented and broken apart, sometimes rejoining, but a lot of it turning to mist, with no hope of congealing again.It's really a shame that the series had so much potential with the first few books; blending mythology, action, and historical fiction, but it has now become a mess of too many characters and not enough focus or interaction.
The first half of the book seems to be only a collection of incredibly short, fragmented chapters that introduce little information, provide little opportunity for any character development or interaction, and leave the reader wanting much more - principally a re-focused and reinvigorated plot.
I don't know what's wrong with the rest of the people, but I think this series is great!!! I thought the last book was my favorite when I finished it, but can I dare say that this one was better? I don't know what is going to happen next but I' m not waiting to see either. Book #5 is downloading as I write this.
Nastavljamo u istom stilo ko i do sada. Polako se sprema pozornica za kraj pa samim tim pritisak se pojacava, situacija je sve mracnija i stvarno se ne zna kako ce ici dalje. To mi se cidja.Plus u ovoj knjizi fokus je nekako vise na likovima nego na magiji sto odma povecava kvalitet celog stiva.
she did what it takes to help Sophie and that was so kind of her even maybe she felt the same way as Sophie of losing her twin.the weird thing is, Aoife said they were ten thousand years old and born after Danu Talis fell.
He wasn't human of course which is weird, come to think of what Hekate said.I always thought he was human since he could touch Codex which couldn't touched by The Elders.
I'm afraid Sophie and Josh would be like that.by the way, Remus and Romulus were Mars sons right?
I will go so far as to say it is the best of the lot.Up front, let me say that I loved this series right from the beginning though I have also shared some other reviewers frustrations with the year-long delays between books.
There have been hints throughout the series that Michael Scott was building an entire world and here we begin to see it all come together.
I think I will have to up my stock order this morning and order more of the previous three.TV
I literally love everything about this series except for Josh. He is ruining it for me, I have never wanted to smack some sense into a character more than him. He could do with some sense because then maybe he would see who is actually using him instead of assuming things. Cause he's just become an ass and he will not be redeemed for me ever.
"Is it like some sort of ninja trick?"Niten shot Josh a warning look.
I hate ninjas-they have no honor.”I think it's clear now that these books aren't a series.
But I see the point where people think, nuh uh that's way too big a book for me to read....
When you have series like Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter containing 25 books and counting.In this book the big excitement starts.
All of these are essential in the end and I love them!!It's amazing what Michael Scott did to think of his characters.
I will definitely re-read this book and the entire series.
My congratulations go out to Michael Scott for another well written book in the series.
Ok. On to this great book.
One of the things I liked most was all the background and character developement in this book.
We got more info about Scatty and the Witch of Endor.
Plus we get a little more info on the ass clowns that are trying to destroy the human race.
One thing i liked was how in this book when Josh gets the truth about the origin of mankind he wasn't just like "oh, well....
Read this series!
In The Necromancer, various new characters appear and Prometheus is the most incredible one, he is the Witch of Endor's (who gave her memories to Sophie) brother and Scathach's uncle.
You will also learn a lot about Scathach through her (wait for it) twin sister Aoife!I particularly liked reading the changes in the personalities of both John Dee and Niccolo Machiavelli.
I can't say anything, but you will clearly be quite impatient for Summer 2011 and the release of The Warlock!This book finally gets at the turning point of the story where a conflict seems inevitable and the characters have to choose sides.
When a reader finds herself muttering "Really???" throughout the course of the story (listening to it on ipod) and checking the time meter to see how much longer she has to suffer through what has truly become a burdensome tale, well, that's a problem.
Or that WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE (dude, REALLY??) would get stuck in another "world" or that any number of things would happen to wrap up the Very.Wordy.Story?
Pronto.I WANTED to enjoy this series.
I cannot believe you are going to drag this tale out into not one but TWO more very likely extremely lengthy books.
Not everything is revealed right away, and people’s motivations go deeper than you’d ever realize.I do think the alternating viewpoints prevents us from getting a deep look at characters’ motivations, which makes them feel a bit static, but I also think that there are some plot reveals coming up that those deep looks would ruin, so it sort of makes sense for this series.
Maybe that will change in the final novels.This is going to be a short review, because I don’t want to give too much away for those who haven’t read it, but all I can say is that it’s enjoyable and entertaining.
This series is one of those that feels like home each time you pick it up.In terms of plot it wasn't as fast paced as the previous three but I think it was definitely necessary to build up the bigger picture.
the next one feels like its gonna be very fast placed and full of action.
I won't be leaving such a long space of time between this book and the next one.This series sort of reminds me of a more serious Rick Riordan (not too series though).
Fairly sure everyone hates everyone.The ending in this book had me screaming.
WOW this book. Just ended with a character being unbelievably stupid, but it works for the story. (view spoiler)[ im gonna call it now and say i think josh is death, the character that took scatty and all of them. (hide spoiler)] i can't wait to read the next one.
Such a good book,I couldn't put it down.In this book,the unthinkable happened.
The Necromancer, by Michael Scott, is the next book in the series, The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel, after The Sorceress. The twins make their way home to their Aunt. But shortly Sophie is Taken, and Josh with, Flannel, and his wife, race after her. Dee becomes all creatures target after failing his task. Now all humans must fend for themselves as Josh continues to drift into the dark side.I recommend this to fantasy lovers.
A great following to the series, the plot thickens with each new installment.It was so interesting to discover more immortals and the location of Joan and Scatach, Morethyu was an interesting addition to the flock of characters.I can only say that with each step the twins take everything in the story seems to gain in depth and curiosity. An amazing 4 book.
Dr. John Dee nasipnya terancam karena telah gagal menjalankan tugas dari para Tetua, dia menjadi buronan, sudah diadili, dia pun mengarungi Xibalba untuk melarikan diri, yang biasa dikenal dengan Persimpangan, Sarang rasa takut, salah satu Alam bayangan kuno, daerah netral yang digunakan saat para Tetua dan tetua Gelap dari berbagai Alam Bayangan perlu mengadakan pertemuan.
Mereka tak hidup dan tak mati, berada diantaranya, kedua burung itu adalah makhluk abadi yang bisa bicara seperti manusia, diciptakan oleh Dewi Berwajah Tiga Hekate, sebagai hadiah bagi Tetua bermata satu Odin.
Elang Hitam membawa mereka pada seorang Tetua, Quetzalcoatl sang Ular Berbulu atau Kukulkan (saya sering sekali salah menyebutnya dengan kalkunkan :P) untuk membangkitkan monster tersebut.
Oke, novel ini sukses membawa saya tidak berhenti membaca hingga menyentuh halaman akhir dan tentu saja sukses membuat histeris dan tidak sabar menunggu buku berikutnyaNecromancer, sesuai judulnya di sini John Dee mendapat giliran untuk tampil dengan porsi terbanyak.
Mulai terbuka rencana Dee sesungguhnya, bukan hanya membawa dark elder kembali ke dunia…Di sisi lain Joan dan Scathach yang terjebak di masa prehistoric, menghadapi hewan dan tumbuhan yang seluruhnya berbahaya.
Well, it didn’t get much more exotic than the Pleistocene era, did it?”Akankah mereka dapat kembali atau diharuskan melewati masa jutaan tahun untuk akhirnya kembali?Machiavelli dan Billy The Kid gagal membunuh Perenelle malah sebaliknya terjebak di Alcatraz.
Like the Percy Jackson books from Rick Riordan, it is filled with characters from myth and history, mixing lots of different worlds with the story of 2 (not-so-)normal American teens, in this case twins Josh and Sophie Newman.
In my opinion, it is much better written than the Riordan, and the story is much more complex and satisfying.This fourth volume is more scattered than previous ones, with multiple story lines diverging from the main one of Josh and Sophie, and focusing on characters introduced in prior volumes.
Highly recommended for fans of Percy Jackson.
OK... this series doesn't seem to be going anywhere. I thought by book 4 maybe we would have made some progress but we still seem to be following the formula of fight monsters and flee. Whine some more, then fight monsters and flee again. Bad guys lie, gullible boy believes them, causes more damage so that everyone can once again fight monsters and flee. Oh, and everyones aura is always exhausted, and yet somehow they still manage to fight monsters before they flee again. I don't know if I am going to make it to book 5.
I have completely enjoyed this whole series so far. I have especially enjoyed the characters as they travel through their world, trying to figure it out. I like how with each new book in the series, they are constantly growing and trying to navigate through what is thrown at them. And as always, I can't wait to read the next one by how the author ended it. There is always a hook. I wish my boys were still little because they would have enjoyed this one.
The beginning of the book is very slow paced and quite boring but as you get to the end the book becomes more interesting and fast paced also toward the end of the book many problems develop and leave you hanging on whether they get solved or not because the book ends right when a huge problem starts-josh joins the dark elders.
Lots of fluff. It was okay though.
It was amazing! I really enjoyed especially the last 8 chapters!
i liked the twist in the plot… one of the twins goes dark!!!
Upon reconsideration, I'm rating this 3.5 stars because I really don't like how that last part went down.
Josh cada libro que pasa me caes peor
Dit is het deel waarin het moeilijker gaat worden voor de tweeling.
Okay, misschien een beetje overdreven, maar hier komt het wel op neer.
Het begin van het boek is erg traag en behoorlijk saai, maar naarmate je dichter bij het einde komt, wordt het boek interessanter en sneller.
Tegen het einde van het boek komen er nieuwe problemen bij, zeker als Josh zich lijkt aan te sluiten bij de Duistere Ouderen.Op naar boek 5.
