https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149302.Silverthorn
I loved the story of Jimmy and Arutha in the beginning.
Lyam is the King and Arutha and Martin are his brothers.
Anyway, someone or thing is out to kill Arutha and it's not good at all!
I'm just skimming through this review but know there is a lot of stuff going on in the book.
Some horrible thing happens and Pug and Kulgan show up!
Arutha, Martin, some guards I like but forgot their names (for shame) some other people they pick up along the way and Jimmy and Laurie.
There are a lot of things going on but it's so wonderful, I can't say it enough.
*** 4.25 ***Loved it!!!! Old school all the way and loving it:):):)
I loved this book. I find this book quite intrigued as 'Magician' but I think 'Magician' is better than this book. My favourite character are Jimmy the Hand, Arutha, Pug, Martin and Tomas.
The next step in the Riftwar series. If you enjoyed Magician, continue the adventure here with a quest led by Arutha (my autocorrect does not like Arutha). If you have not read Magician: Apprentice and Magician: Master, stop, slowly step away from this review, and then quickly get those and start reading! As you may have seen, I challenged my fantasy loving friends to read this series. If you made it this far, you're welcone!
This is the one and only book of this series which my public library possesses.
Another one of the mysteries of library acquisition.I found this the most engaging book of the series that I’ve read, perhaps because it deals less with Pug & Tomas and more with Prince Arutha and his new squire, Jimmy the Hand.
Arutha is hands-down my favourite character of the series, so no wonder I am pleased with this novel.There are definitely echoes of the Sleeping Beauty story in this one, and Jimmy reminds me strongly of Slippery Jim DiGriz of Stainless Steel Rat renown.
Right, now I’m off to request Darkness at Sethanon by inter-library loan!Book 194 of my science fiction and fantasy reading project.
"A thing of despair fashioned in a shape of utter horror descended from the sky." - What a great line.It's been so long since I last read this, that it was like reading it for the first time.
This is a middle book, that works really well to setup for the finale in 'Darkness at Sethanon.'In general, I loved the book.
I think the pacing could have been a little better, especially at the start, but that's a quibble.
I found this book quite different to Magician. It spanned a far shorter period of time and concentrated on a smaller band of characters. I adore Jimmy the Hand and really enjoyed his role in the story. He made me laugh a lot :) The story was fun and well paced and kept my interest all the way through.I took issue with the fact that the goodreads description gave away plot points that were only revealed one and two thirds of the way into the book, respectively. I'm not a fan of spoilers.On to A Darkness At Sethanon! :)
Arutha, Dark Prince, Little Storm Cloud, has fallen in love with his cousin Anita.
Anita is struck down with poison.
His skills and bravery quickly ingratiate him with our favorite characters.Pug’s end of book discovery beneath the ice of Tsuranuanni was utterly magical; a jaw dropping moment of beauty.What I didn’t like:1.
The moment Gammina, a seven year old girl, is introduced to a group of men their first thoughts are of how hot she will be when she grows up.
Anita should have been given an opportunity to struggle on her own behalf, even if from her sick room.
Instead we have a Sleeping Beauty.3.
Next month, next book!
Feist's writing and rank Magician as one of the finest works I've ever read.
This is the immediate sequel to Magician, and a finely crafted novel indeed.
There is a promise of grand things to come in A Darkness at Sethanon, which closes the original Riftwar Saga.Silverthorn is a fine book, but beware.
Like I mentioned earlier, despite the fact that Magician was such a complete work and stands fine as a stand-alone novel, Silverthorn is a continuation and as such will not make a lot of sense if read apart.
Just did not click with this one. 'Magician' was such a classic but this was all rather mundane with very little magic and the very annoying Jimmy the Hand. All a bit predictable and instantly forgettable. Sorry,
(view spoiler)[With the closing of the rift at the end of Magician, (hide spoiler)]I wondered where Raymond Feist would take me in  Silverthorn , the next novel in the Riftwar Saga series. The three brothers (Arutha, Lyam and Martin) spent a year touring the Kingdom and returned to Krondor to plan Arutha and Anita's wedding. Jimmy the Hand, a young full-of-himself thief and rising star in the Mockers, foiled an assassination attempt upon Prince Arutha. Because Jimmy aided both Anita and Arutha i
(view spoiler)[With the closing of the rift at the end of Magician,  (hide spoiler)]I wondered where Raymond Feist would take me in 
Jimmy the Hand, a young full-of-himself thief and rising star in the Mockers, foiled an assassination attempt upon Prince Arutha.
Even the great Pug can't cure Anita, so he places a spell upon her that slows time down to a barely perceptible crawl, allowing Arutha time to find an antidote for the poison.
(view spoiler)[Arutha returns with the antidote and saves Anita.
(hide spoiler)]Silverthorn delivered an almost typical quest adventure, focusing on Arutha's obsessive need to save Anita and Jimmy's transition from thief to trusted companion and squire to Arutha.
An excellent book in the series, although like the first two (which were originally one book & then published in the US as 2 paperbacks) this book reads as half of one.
There is far too much left hanging, so plan on having A Darkness at Sethanon at hand when you finish.The main characters shift & a new star is introduced, but story is better for it, IMO.
This probably isn't really a 4 star book, but at least a 3.5, so I gave it the benefit of the doubt.
I'm reading this in the Fantasy Book Club Series Group this time,http://www.goodreads.com/topic/group_...
A very interesting follow on from the first book with a lot more drama and a lot less world-setting which is cool but also slightly baffling...Such a different style of book though, very odd. I like it in it's own right but it's a very weird continuation...
Silverthorn is Raymond E. Feist's second novel set in Midkemia and in the Riftwar Saga—not to be confused with the Riftwar Cycle, which is the name for the entire 30 books-spanning series. While I love  Magician , Silverthorn is where I really lost my heart to this series, largely due to the focus on my favourite characters, Arutha and Jimmy the Hand. Of course, the cast of characters we met in Magician mostly returns as well, but for the main part this is Arutha's and Jimmy's story.On the face
Of course, the cast of characters we met in Magician mostly returns as well, but for the main part this is Arutha's and Jimmy's story.On the face of it Silverthorn is a straightforward quest narrative: a Princess is poisoned and our intrepid heroes journey to find an antidote.
There's the amazing Abbey at Sarth where all the knowledge in the world is collected – yes of course I was going to like that one, I'm a librarian for heaven's sake – the northern parts of Midkemia, with its clans and border lords and the Northlands, where the Moredhel dwell.The characters that return from Magician are developed further, especially Jimmy and Arutha, and there are some wonderful additions in the form of Locky and Baru.
This was a good third volume in the series. It's an on-the-road adventure with some good banter and some good fights. Most of the book kept my attention pretty fully. I just wish the chapters were a little shorter.
I'm not sure I can properly review this book. So I'll boil it down to this: if you like classic fantasy with all it's trappings you should read it. It's fast paced and entertaining and it makes you crave more. More of this world, more of these characters, just plain more.
Pronti a viaggiare in capo al mondo per salvare la principessa?
Alcune ricerche scientifiche stanno ancora cercando di comprendere l'attinenza della copertina - ma che è quella bocca di leone/grifone/dragone?
- con il contenuto dell'opera.Accantonati questi amletici dubbi, va detto che il secondo volume mantiene inalterato lo stile narrativo semplice e scevro di fronzoli, condito saggiamente da un vivace ritmo.Assodato che l'introspezione dei personaggi sia volontariamente sacrificata in virtù delle esigenze narrative, le quali richiedono dinamicità narrativa e intrecci anche piuttosto elaborati per un high fantasy, la lettura risulta godibile e intrattiene alla perfezione.La saga di Riftwar è il classico esempio di opera fantasy garbata, scritta con passione e con quei piccoli guizzi di originalità inseriti in un impianto narrativo abbastanza collaudato.
lots of good ideas and lots of cliches with this one. one thing that bothered me was that everyone used the same speech: the royalty, the highborns, the elves, the aliens, the thieves, the assassins all spoke the same way, with the same words.
I think I was in love with Arutha when I read this book. My heart was in my mouth the whole time.
Another character that got a much deserved expanded role was Jimmy the Hand; I haven’t got a real life actor in mind for his role just yet though.I actually found this easier to read than Magician not only because it was a shorter book but because I think Feist’s writing became more fluent and I have great confidence the writing will become better and better as I read the subsequent novels in the series.In short Silverthorn was a solid novel, but didn’t achieve the same standard as its predecessor and therefore deserves a rating of 3.5 stars rounded up to 4.
For some strange reason i have really struggled to get going on this one, maybe because it’s so long

A very strong continuation to Magician, a must read for any fan of the Riftwar Saga, and one step closer to the epilogue of this great story.
Pros I especially liked the development of the different magic-systems in this book, they’re definitely a lot better explained than in 'Magician', and there's the emergence of new awesome powers that really spice up the story!
I also really liked the development of Feist as an author from the last book, here the point-of-view-changes are a lot more understandable and fluent, whereas in the previous instance in the series, they were at times abrupt and hard to follow.
Meanwhile little jimmy has grown from a theif to now a squire and has left his clan of theifs to help prince against the assasians.The black hawks.When the prince is about to merry anita a attended for arutha strikes her.the bolt would not have been fatal but it was poisoned and they find out that the only cure for it was a plant that grew rarely by morelin.
Pug the master magician put a spell on anita to slow he poison,but it would not stop it.
Este 3º livro da saga revelou-se para mim o melhor até ao momento do Feist, pois a história fica mai
Where as Magician started out feeling like a very traditional coming of age story, and then sort of morphed into something different, Silverthorn started out traditional and tame and finished traditional and tame.
That's not to say it wasn't an enjoyable read, just not my favorite of the series.
I love Jimmy, so I liked to see him take an up front role in the story.
Story wise - like I said, it was very traditional and standard.
But like I said..
Still enjoyable, just not nearly as good as Magician.Three stars, down from my original rating of four.
Silverthorn continues where Magician left off and follows many of Magician's characters plus a few new ones on their highly perilous quest to find a cure for a lethally wounded princess. The book is a little light on Pug stuff, which is a pity, but the other characters are a likeable enough bunch whose fast-paced adventures are a joy to follow. The fact that they're up against zombies only serves to make the story that much more exciting. Nice characters + quest + zombies = good read!
Love the worlds Feist creates! I would say it rather needs a quick re-edit again because I spied some rather obvious typos. Aside from that it stands well on its own and is imaginative and inspiring within the context of the worlds he creates.
Well the princess gets poisoned, Arutha races to find a cure and Pug has gone back to sort out an ancient enemy. Not a lot else to say becomes the story carries on into A Darkness at Sethanon. I'll get back to you with a full report.
Quite good..
