https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75024.The_Templar_Legacy
The Knights Templars were founded in Jerusalem in 1118 to protect the pilgrims visiting Palestine at the end of the First Crusade of 1096. The full, original name was "The Poor Knights of Christ and the Temple which is in Jerusalem", but the for the sake of this review I will just refer to them as The Templars.  By papal decree only The Templars were allowed to wear the cross patee. The red cross is probably the most famous identifying symbol for the order. The Templars because of their austere
The new Pope decided it was in his best interest to lift the excommunication order, but it was his successor Clement the V who gave Phillip what he wanted.
Legend has it that De Molay hid a great treasure before his incarceration and with it an item only referred to as The Great Device.Steve Berry weaves his story around the rise to prominence of a Grand Master Templar who wishes to restore the order to their place of respect and honor.
As Malone moves around Europe interpreting clues and in the process thwarting the aims of the Grand Master Templar, the plot unfolds in spectacular fashion.
Steve Berry is the thinking man's Dan Brown.
I was immediately impressed after reading The Romanov Prophecy, and The Third Secret.
The Templar Legacy does not disappoint.
If you enjoyed The DaVinci Code you will appreciate this novel all the more.Berry mixes a decent understanding of folkore and history in this fast paced quest for the real Templar Treasure." He even takes a decent pot shot at all the conspiratroialists and others who have made fortunes off a well-documented hoax.
If you're not familiar with some of it, as I wasn't (I looked up more online.) he had a great author's note at the end that covered the main points.While about religious people, orders, & conspiracies, Berry took a great secular look at it all, but wasn't insensitive to religious folks.
Pretty cool & I'm a pretty anti-religious person.It was certainly a twisty mystery, somewhat overdone.
Felt tacked on in a lot of ways.Overall, quite good.
I'm not sure how good a sequel will be, but I'll give one a shot some day.
So fascinated by the amount of research that went into this. Really cool book, and I'm excited to follow Cotton on more adventures!
once again i'm longing for half stars (2 vs.
i'm settling on this just being ok/2 stars, though, because:- the dialogue is not afraid to spell things out.
as in, explaining the obvious, in a predictable, simplistic manner- the actual storyline meanders a little too much, at least for my taste in historical thrillers.
i'd like these books to be, i don't know, thrilling.- there were a couple of spelling/grammar errors.
true, it could happen to anyone.
true, it's an enormous pet peeve of mine in general.
it was fun to explore some slightly new historical territory (at least for me).
2 stars.
It's synopsis leads a reader to believe he'll find a thrill ride.Instead about a quarter of the way into the book the text bogs down into a lot of dry conversations.
I don't want to do a blanket assumption here but neither of the books has been overly burdened by original thinking.I forged through it, but I can't really recommend it.
I'll answer it here under a spoiler warning.(view spoiler)[ Yes this is another book that tells us all we (Christians) believe is a lie.
Peter left a book telling that all in the Gospels is a lie.
Also searching is a host of supporting characters including Stephanie Nell, Malone’s former supervisor; Mark Nell, the son-turned-Templar thought dead in an avalanche; Thorvalsen, the wealthy Dane supporting Malone; Cassiopeia Vitt, the wealthy mystery woman of Islam; Raymond de Roquefort, the fanatic Templar wanting to restore the Order to old glory; the old Master of the Templars and Geoffrey, his servant, aspiring to the Holy Order by doing his master’s will.
What can I say I just really like these kinds of books with thriller/action-adventure based on history and historical landmarks.
Yes this type of storyline and pace is reminiscent of The DaVinci Code but again, I really like these kinds of books.
Obviously the author does his research and a lot of the book is based on historical references.
I’ve seen way too many reviews on stories like these where people complain that it’s wrong, there’s no basis for it, no proof.
That being said, I liked it, thought it was fun and I’m going to continue on with Cotton and his adventures.
Dan Brown esque. Interesting thriller with the seemingly sole intent of challenging pre conceived historical beliefs. Long spots of historical info dumps, which I found interesting but could bore some. Entertaining at least.
The Templar Legacy1 StarThis is my third attempt at reading this book and its time to call it quits. The main character is interesting enough and the plot has potential, but it moves along at a snails pace with excessive descriptions of the scenery (villages, buildings, forests, gardens, etc.) and the innermost thoughts of each and every character most of whom I couldn't care less about. Enough is enough!
Piatto e noioso. I personaggi sono stereotipi mal delineati e la tensione è quasi del tutto inesistente, spesso diluita da una narrazione ripetitiva e prolissa.
Total load of garbage from the beginning of the book until the end. This book was not even worth the paper it was written on.
"Say it, preach it, shout it, but never, absolutely never, believe your own bullshit!" Templar Legacy, the first book of the Cotton Malone series, had such potential.....Our hero, Cotton, a special ops kind of guy, must come to the rescue of his former boss from the Justice Dept who seems to be in over her head. Before committing suicide, her husband had left notes on how to decipher an antique codex, the purpose of which is unclear. However, she discovers she's not the only one participating i
Templar Legacy, the first book of the Cotton Malone series, had such potential.....Our hero, Cotton, a special ops kind of guy, must come to the rescue of his former boss from the Justice Dept who seems to be in over her head.
If you're thinking the story sounds a bit like Da Vinci Code, you'd be correct.
Ok, yes (like Da Vinci Code) Templar Legacy grates against my religious sensitivities, but it's a "fiction" book so who cares.
I'm not into having to take notes while I'm reading an action novel, so that I can keep track of all the side stories.My little annoyances subsided toward the end of the book when the action began to pick up.
My initial reaction upon seeing it for the second time, having just brought home The Templar Legacy, was, oh no, it's the SAME BOOK!
Really, though, aside from both dealing with lost Templar treasure and the possible non-divinity of Christ, they're quiet different novels.
All in all, a good read.What's really interesting for me, though, in all of these novels, is how much I find myself reflecting of my own religious beliefs.
I think I enjoy them even more because they do challenge established Christianity, and, consequently, my beliefs.
I do wish, though, that readers who are offended by anything that challenges their religious views would just avoid those novels in the first place rather than read them and then trash the book's viewpoint.I enjoyed learning much more about the Templars and how they evolved through history.
I also liked the settings in Copenhagen and France, and having been to most of the locales described in the novel, found myself transported back to those places.The plot was intriguing and while I thought the overall mystery to be sufficiently compelling and well paced, I felt the dialogue was a bit stilted.
Pope Clement V disbanded the order in 1312 under pressure from King Philip." [source]During the time period they were active, they were the wealthiest and most powerful group, which grew rapidly.
It plays on the legacy and legend of the Templars, and this now shadowy group of Knights are hunting for the secrets that have been passed down from master to master.
I felt like I was learning a lot about history, but at the same time, taken on this thrilling, shadowy, conspiracy-filled world.
, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, National Treasure, or any story filled with both history and adventure, you will love this book!
(Although if you don't like fictional books that question the Bible or faith then this book is NOT for you!) It's a very Dan Brown kind of book (that I think is a bit...only a bit...more realistic.) I wavered between 3 and 4 stars for this one and settled on three.
I settled on three because-At times the books gets very preachy/too lecture like.-It's very repetitive.
I don't need to read this again."-The characters were (mostly)realistic...but not all that likable.
Perhaps if their motivations were explored more fully (rather than the rehashing of details) I would have liked them more.Even still - I think I will get Steve Berry another try.
I'm always looking for a new series to read and Steve Berry's Cotton Malone series fits the bill.
While Cotten's backstory could have been built out a little more fully...
hits are given that things will be either explained later in the story or...
we are lead to believe this is a "story" for another time i.e., another book...
thus the drawn out backstory can bit a bit annoying.
Other than that the characters in the book are well thought out and the action is great fun...
I will be looking forward to the next book in the series and all those there after!
This is the first book of the Cotton Malone series, and thus far, the best one I have read.
I'm sure my fascination with the history of Knights Templar was a weighing factor in my rating of the book.
Nevertheless, Steve Berry has done a good job in mixing history with an interesting story line.
The employment of diverse characters made it all the more interesting.
But Cotton Malone was another story.
I wonder what Mr. Berry was thinking in using such a lousy character as his lead.
I'm only too glad that his character didn't diminish my interest in the book.
I'm not going into the the whole story line as the synopsis gives us a lot of information on that.This is the 2nd time I have read this book...I decided to start the whole series again as I have now copies of his later books.I enjoyed it a lot and what makes this series interesting for me is the hero, Cotton Malone - love his name and also the amount of research done for the story....though at times, I felt bombarded with so much all at once....but I am liking getting into this series again.
I thought the book was good, held my attention, and kept me guessing.
I thought it was well researched, but since there was no roving reporters, internet, video cameras or cell phones centuries ago we rely on documents written by whoever was paying to have them written, and naturally if King Phillip IV, the Pope, or the Templars wanted to document an event, they would have it recorded to put themselves in the best light.
So, historically, I think the truth lies somewhere in the middle of what is said by all the documents.
That said, I enjoyed the book and thought it well written.
My first Steve Berry novel and it will not be my last. Even though I not into the Knights Templar,I found the book enjoyable and entertaining from start to finish!
He hinges the whole plot on Jesus' resurrection, and then you're supposed to act all shocked when the characters actually find his bones.
The characters are all underdeveloped and constantly tripping over each other- did Berry seriously need the whole troop present for the final confrontation?
I'm still trying to figure out why Cotton Malone was the main character.
Otherwise there was no reason for Malone to be moving the plot forward.
She was just there to provide another plot twist (Thorvaldson sure gets around!) and to save Malone's ass from situations Berry couldn't write him out of.Anyway, this book was lame.
Oh, how I wish authors who want to write books in this "genre" would do wider research.
Berry refers to Bishop Spong, for crying out loud!
T. Wright (Resurrection And The Son of God) would have been enough to alter the ending of Berry's book for the better.
His dating of the Gospels is questionable, and he makes no mention of Paul's writings.
1 Corinthians is an undisputed Pauline letter, and Paul's chapter on the resurrection (chapter 15) blows Berry's liberal scholarship out of the water: it's early and refers to all of Jesus' resurrection appearances that were later written about in the Gospels.
I couldn't make it past the first 80 pages, which were an obvious attempt to not only ride the coattails of The DaVinci Code but to also build a franchise around the main character.
I grow very weary of these action franchises, and more than one speculative fiction author (James Rollins, I'm looking at YOU!) has had a strong body of work overshadowed by the special ops-covert military goofiness that seems so popular in these strains of novel.
I'm just not in the mood to cavort through the streets of Europe and the pages of history with yet another multi-lingual, eidetic memory-having, erudite military man.
The second straight addition to the unfinished (perhaps forever) shelf. My second "Templar" novel in the recent past. Sorry, Copenhagen is not your basic setting for international espionage. I know, I've been there and the people are just too nice and the city is not that cosmopolitan. After about 10 shootouts/suicides/people thrown out of windows in first 20 pages, I was rolling my eyes at the action. Just too out of place. bye bye.
A Dan Brown-type thriller, involving the Templar Knights and a sect of Christianity trying to exonerate their past condemnations. Cotton Malone, a retired spy, is drawn back into "the game" when his former boss unexpectedly appears in Copenhagen and becomes embroiled in what turns out to be a family affair.
I always enjoy Berry's stories, but he tends to be a bit wordy and heavier on detail than is necessary in some parts of this book. However, it's a good read, and this author always adds fascinating little historical tidbits.

A questo punto, Stephanie è costretta a rivelare a Malone la verità: sta ricostruendo una catena di indizi rinvenuti dal marito, uno studioso di esoterismo morto alcuni anni prima, e quel libro è la tessera fondamentale di un puzzle che potrebbe risolvere il mistero del paesino francese di Rennes-le-Château e, di conseguenza, del mitico tesoro scomparso dei Cavalieri Templari.
I personaggi sono abbastanza interessanti e ben caratterizzati, si muovono in un ritmo incalzante e attraverso un mistero affascinante da risolvere.Il problema essenziale è che letto uno di questi libri che si rifanno al filone thriller storico-religioso, hai la sensazione di averli letti tutti.
