https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19330.The_Complete_Tales
One suspects she wasn't all that sad to see the old man go.
Sure they border on Kinkadian quaintness and might be too cute for their own good, but without them most of these stories quite frankly never would've been read.
Beatrix Potter had a quirky writing style that was adequate most of the time, unexpectedly fun some of the time, and completely useless a time or two.
Many of Potter's stories revolve around thieving, from petty pilfering to wholesale theft on a grand scale such as in "The Tale of the Tailor of Gloucester".
ORIGINAL REVIEW:I love these stories sooooo much!
The classic stories really do stand the test of time.
I've read these aloud to my children over and over.
Even my 7 year old boy loves them.
They love the pictures, and the stories are fun and easy to follow for all ages.
I've always loved THE TALE OF TWO BAD MICE best, but my son tells me that THE TALE OF THE FLOPSY BUNNIES is best, because they're so lazy and sleepy they almost get eaten.2017: I don't think any of the illustrations could be better than the expression on Tom Kitten's face when he puts on his clothes and they're too tight.
but I did cavort round the house when I got home and played the music.I came to Beatrix Potter late, about age 31.(It's never TOO late!!) Took a break from my job in Athens to join my Mum and Step-father in a motoring holiday around the U.K. Was reading BP's biography by Margaret Lane - an excellent one.
After which we got caught in a Yorkshire storm and staggered into our hotel dying of laughter, while my step-father gave us fierce disapproving looks which made us laugh all the more.(He WAS an Accountant, and I'm sure had NEVER read a Beatrix Potter!!)So now I am going to read first the several Tales that were recreated for the ballet.
Ok, no, I didn't read the whole book, not even all the ones I didn't know before.
I'm finding that I'm enjoying the ones that are not so cutesy bunny more than those that are.
The Tale of Mr. Tod is killer.
I never knew that Mr. Tod is a nickname for a fox, and Tommy Brock is a badger.
And when a mother rabbit finds her children missing, we read that she "wrung her ears." Did you know also that Potter bought country lands to preserve it, and "When she died in 1943 she left over 4,000 acres and fifteen farms to the nation."
How I wish I had lost myself in Beatrix Potter's wonderful, pastel-coloured water-paintings and gasped of the wickedness and cunning of Tommy Brock, and sighed with delight with each happy ending, each last word wrapping up the story in a delicate ribbon.But even if I didn't read them as a child and even if I don't possess that cherished sense of nostalgia towards Beatrix Potter's universe of foxes, birds, squirrels and rabbits, I still found these tales to be an absolute delight, adorably simple and perfectly fitting for any child (or any child hiding within an adult).
I can't understand why I haven't read them sooner.
I finally got around to reading Beatrix Potter.I love Beatrix Potter. Just a children's author, not bloody likely. What doesn't she cover? Class, environment, animal rights, economic theory.And those pictures.There are three levels to Potter - (1) children (2) adult (3) artist.
Ilustracije su famozne, a price i ne bas (izuzev tri bas predivne).
Iznenaduje me njezina beskompromisnost u oslikavanju seoskih prizora s obzirom na njezne ilustracije.
Jedna od prica mi je bas bila jako strasna, sto nisam ocekivala...Ali ovo je ljubav <3" Sam macak bio je osujecen u ljubavi.
Njegov mrzovoljni i mracni svjetonazor djelomicno je bio posljedica razdvojenosti od sove.
Ta mila ptica, snjezna sova iz Laponije, plovila je na sjevernjackom kitolovcu na Grenland.
A "Funta svijeca" plovila je na tropska mora." Nisu li sve ljubavi opreke izmedu zime i ljeta?
:DSrecom, macak i sova proveli su medeni mjesec na pustom otoku kod prascica Robinsona :)
Beatrix Potter's Complete Tales holds a very dear place in my heart.
Beatrix Potter's first story in 1902, "The Tale of Peter Rabbit" was published in a small edition by Frederick Warne, within a year it was an instant best seller.
In fact, these magical stories are often connected with real people, places or animals.
Stories that involve animals as the main characters in books always seem to fascinate young children and Peter Rabbit has always been up there with the best.
Children can then go on to write their own animal themed story.
Bought in the Beatrix Potter Museum during a trip through the Lake District. These are stories which will be reminded your whole life. Not only this book is a beauty, but a visit to the museum, where all Mrs Potter's figures are life size, is highly recommended. Even as an adult I love to read the story of Jemima Puddleduck, mrs Tiddlemouse and famous Peter Rabbit. The illustrations are fine colored and detailed and done by Mrs Potter herself.
In all honesty, this probably deserves a 3.5 stars but, due to sentimentality and nostalgia, I'm just giving it a 4.Beatrix Potter's stories have been a part of my life for a long time now - I regularly visit the Lakes (a place where Potter lived and bought these stories to life, as well as it thriving off Peter Rabbit merch), these stories were read to me in my childhood, and I've had two pets named after characters (an old rabbit called, you guessed it, Peter and my current dog Tiggi).
I will never get bored of re-reading the Peter Rabbit story.
The Kindle edition included audio files which I didn't listen to, although I might try them at some future time.When one thinks of Beatrix Potter, Peter Rabbit immediately springs (or hops) to mind, but there is so much more.
Other stories feature rabbits, mice, cats, dogs, frogs, ducks, pigs, squirrels and other animals.
The level of the narration varies: some stories seem geared to the very young, and some to more mature audiences.
They often feature animals getting into trouble through their own carelessness, which is a plot element often found in fairy tales.
This edition contains Potter's illustrations, some in black and white, many in colour.
The first book I can remember reading was The Tale of Peter Rabbit, so Beatrix Potter is very near and dear to my heart.
This collection of her tales is simply wonderful.
These would definitely be fun stories to read out loud to children.
In regards to this edition, I really enjoyed how before each tale, there was some background information on the story and what inspired Ms. Potter to write them.
I never realized before reading this that so many of her tales have interconnected characters and details, which was neat.
It was fun to see favorite characters popping up again.
Reseña completa en Hojas de Otoño2015 Summer Reading Challenge: #8 Un libro en otro idioma.Por mi parte mis cuentos favoritos son los de Peter Rabbits, Benjamin Bunny, Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle, Jemima Puddle-Duck, Timmy Tiptoes, The Tale of Mr. Tod y el que menos me gustó, que realmente no disfruté fue el cuento de Pigling Bland, que casualmente fue el mas largo de todos.En fin, es un buen libro para divertirse y distraerse un rato o para leerle a los pequeños de la casa.
I'm so glad I took the time to go through this book and become familiar with the work of Beatrix. It is a lovely book of stories and artwork. It is also a collection of fine stories for children and adult with the hearts of children. This is a treasury of stories. It's worth getting from you library.
Isn't Beatrix Potter wonderful, a fine artist and a writer of some of the greatest and memorable childrens stories. Reading through this remarkable book you know it will never go out of fashion.Put your feet up make some muffins and buns, make some tea and enjoy.P.S. anyone who gives this one or two stars is a miserable sod and can expect a visit from Mr Tod the wiley fox!
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Childhood favorites and some of Beatrix Potter's lesser known tales, in a fresh 2013 landscape.
I, as many people, grew up with Beatrix Potter's stories - in particular The tale of Peter Rabbit although I've read a few others too as a child.
Some of the stories were quite fun - I especially liked The tailor of Gloucester, The tale of two bad mice, and The tale of the pie and the patty-pan for the writing.
Overall, the writing wasn't what drew me in - it's rather straight forward as its aimed at a young reader.
But I love Beatrix Potter for her art - her illustrations are so beautiful!
Bardzo ładne obrazki. Przekład Małgorzaty Musierowicz słodki jak ulepek, wierszyki koślawe, spolszczone imiona infantylne. Przedziwne opowieści. Zwierzęta pichcące zwierzęta i zapraszające inne zwierzęta na kolacyjki. Dziwne relacje między ludźmi a zwierzętami, oparte na szowinizmie gatunkowym i dziwacznym - i jak się chwilę zastanowić: makabrycznym - poczuciu humoru. Albo jego braku, jeśli się zastanowić jeszcze raz. I wszystko w tej książce uświęca ten porządek, który tłucze się do głów dzieci i popiera ślicznymi obrazkami, że zwierzęta się zjada, bo tak jest stworzony ten świat.
The stories are presented here in chronological order as published with 4 unpublished works at the end.
Once she married in 1913 she didn't have as much time for her painting and writing and I think it shows as the stories in the first half of the book are much more enjoyable than the latter ones.
Also, while each story stands alone there are references to prior events and characters and this was fun to notice when reading them in order.
It's like having a British gran read you the stories before a crackling fire while English weather does what English weather does outside, with a cup of chamomile tea.
Tennyson wrote "Nature, red in tooth and claw" and while he wasn't writing about the brutal world of Beatrix Potter, he could have been.
Peter Rabbit and friends may be late Victorian yeomen and gentry wearing blue coats and selling peppermints in shops, but they also have no absolutely no compunction about eating, skinning and wearing one another.
So long live the stories of Beatrix Potter!
E, secondo me, è uno dei quei libri che tutti i bambini dovrebbero ascoltare e vedere.Sì, perché il libro è impreziosito - è proprio il caso di dirlo - dalle illustrazioni originali dell'autrice.
Piccole opere d'arte dipinte ad acquarello o in bianco e nero, nelle quali un bambino può ammirare conigli in giacchetta azzurra e anatre con cuffia e scialle.
Tutto è assolutamente realistico perché Beatrix Potter utilizzava veri conigli, anatre, maiali, etc...
sono quei personaggi che un bambino ama, sogna e disegna come protagonisti delle sue personali avventure.Per i più grandi, ogni storia ha una brevissima introduzione sulle vicende compositive ed editoriali che ne hanno portato alla pubblicazione.
Seriously?!?!I have no problem with anthropomorphic personifications, talking rabbits etc, but surely if you're making the animals talk you should stay away from making them eat each other!
It may be because I was 'reading' the complete series on audiobook, one after the other, but do we have to have one story telling the tale of the mice that 'live' in the dolls house when the kids aren't playing with it and then in the very next story have the dog eating mouse pie?
If we're personifying the creatures surely that's canibalism?And yes, I'm aware these are classics and have been around for close to 100 years, this is only my take on it.
This was a read aloud book to Emma. I think I loved the stories as much as she did! I read most, if not all, of these when I was little, but I had forgotten much of the stories.Children's stories certainly are not written like this anymore. I love that Beatrix Potter uses brilliant and colorful language. Her characters and descriptions were simple, endearing, and full of life. The illustrations are simple but there is something about them that captures your heart. She was a gifted lady to be sure.
You might think that the big words and adult phrasing in these books would deter a child's interest... not so! Children love stories about animals, and even if they don't understand every word (or -sometimes - even the plot!), they enjoy the rhythm of the language, the pictures and the funny situations. Besides, reading books like this with more advanced vocabulary and sentence structure teaches them how to speak with more advanced vocabulary and more complex sentences.
I adore these little stories which are always so delightfully engaging and fun. I used to make my husband read them to me when I couldn't sleep and my favourite was always The Pie and the Patty Pan. Just like Ribby or Mrs Ribston as she is known in the tale, my husband came home to a chicken pot pie that had just underneath the crust...yes, you guessed it...a patty pan. Me and our children roared with laughter at the delighted shock on his face. Ms Potter and I...we got him good.
I love her art and her writing is very funny. I've been reading a lot of children's lit lately...things like The Brothers Grimm and just weird contemporary children's lit...this is a splendid volume...I hear the Cocteau Twins when I read her books...the places between the sentences sort of turn into Cocteau Twins chiming tunes....usually ones from Treasure...
After reading the little handheld sizes many times, we now listen on Audible narrated by Katherine Kellgren. She has a lovely cadence, esp on The Tale of Mr. Tod! We also like the Tailor of Gloucester narrated by Meryl Streep because the music by the Chieftans makes it extra festive & enhances the Christmas vibe.
Beatrix Potter remains one of my favourite authors. I discovered her tales when I was about 7 years old and have revisited her stories over and over. I love the illustrations in particular.Having visited Beatrix Potter's Lake District I have become even more fascinated by her stories. The places in her tales remain largely unchanged even today.
Overall I greatly enjoyed these stories by Beatrix Potter of anthropomorphic creatures with anglophile mannerisms wearing turn of the century clothing. My only complaint was that all of the stories (except for my favorite which was Pigling Bland) ended rather abruptly. Some of them also had a strong moral ending which I found dissatisfying or a mean-spirited streak such as the Tale of Mr Tod.
I simply loved Beatrix Potter books as a child. My favorite is "The Roly Poly Pudding". When we were kids, we had the complete volume of Beatrix Potter, little green books. Oh how I wish my mother had saved them for my boys! I did manage to get a similar volume off of Ebay, along with a Saucy doll because "Jim killed Saucy!".
