https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15842441-effortless
Time to be honest…I didn’t want to read this book.
I don’t always enjoy reading books that are torture.
But, I did enjoy Thoughtless (I ended up giving it 3 stars) and agreed (albeit reluctantly) to read Effortless.
No doubt, I will end up reading book three in this series, but honestly…I don’t see anything left in their story to tell.
Part of me would love to avoid book three and pretend that it doesn’t exist, but I’ll end up reading it just because I’m glutton for punishment I can’t resist Kellan Kyle.
♥Just finished my re-read. Loved it just as much the 2nd time♥ My casting for Kellan & Keira: 6 stars!! “…you finally get it.”…… “get what?”…“That I’m yours… that you can take me… anywhere, anytime, anyway. That you own every piece of me.”  ~KellanOh god – this book just wrenched my heart out in an AMAZING way! In fact, I’m sure it even stopped entirely a few times!! I liked it even more than book 1 and thats saying a lot cuz I looooved Thoughtless. “Loving you, Kellan, is so easy, it’s effo
Loved it just as much the 2nd time♥ My casting for Kellan & Keira: 6 stars!!
Keira and Kellan are finally and officially a couple, but they have a lot to deal with.
Just don’t leave me…please.”  ~KellanThis book make me cry several times – usually happy tears or just very emotional tears… its just a really really beautiful story!!Also, its important to note that even though there IS a third book coming out (*squeeeeeee*), this book ends with a very happy, completely satisfying ending.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ ! A year with many ups and downs has passed by for Kellan and Kiera. Will their love be enough when Kellan goes on tour?And God said "let there be perfection" -and there was. “Effortless” was written for me and for me alone. Emotional, heartwarming, perfection. Kellan Kyle will forever be one of my very favorite heroes. He melted my heart.“I love you, Kiera…please believe in me.”“But, if for some reason we're not closer, if something has gotten between us, please, I'm begging you…don’t give
Will their love be enough when Kellan goes on tour?And God said "let there be perfection" -and there was.
It was amazingly perfect for me and the author is completely fantastic This had everything I could ever want and hope for in a book, and it was also absolutely flawless!
Not to mention the fact that she has introduced me to the love of my life rock God Kellan Kyle!
I can't get my head around how much I loved this book!
He is panty changing sexy, aka sex on legs, he is un-freaking-belivable gorgeous, and he loves Kiera unconditionaly.
4th Re-read!!! :)THIS BOOK STILL BLOWS ME AWAY!!!  "Loving you, Kellan, is so easy, it's effortless." I didn't think that I could love Kellan anymore after reading "Thoughtless", but in this book he really became my ultimate and most cherished book boyfriend. Kellan was all kinds of perfection.I loved that Kiera was trying so hard to make a life for herself outside of Kellan. I can only imagine how hard that would be for anyone. Even though she had issues with jealousy and trust, she was big eno
I didn't think that I could love Kellan anymore after reading "Thoughtless", but in this book he really became my ultimate and most cherished book boyfriend.
Kellan was all kinds of perfection.I loved that Kiera was trying so hard to make a life for herself outside of Kellan.
Effortless is a great follow up to the first book - Thoughtless.It's so hard to believe that someone so young and extemely hot as Kellan Kyle has an ability to love one woman so passionately.I fell hard for this character and the story.
Even ended up liking Kiera better in this book.
I was completely bored with Effortless.I wasn't a fan of Kiera to begin with in Thoughtless, and it certainly didn't change in the second book.Kiera's insecurities and disbeliefs in the first pages were terribly off-putting, including her constant comparison of her and other girls or questioning why Kellan is with her.
It was just so tiresome reading how much she was mesmerized by Kellan, like she's still in awe of his physical attributes and the love she has for him is an afterthought.
At some point, I was convinced Kellan loved her more than she loved him, and she was more into being with a rockstar than really being with Kellan.
Oh, I'm so sad that I finished reading this book - I'll miss Kellan and Kiera... I really hope that S. C. Stephens will publish paperback because I want to have Effortless on my bookshelf.What I like - well, I'll be short: - rock god with his girfriend's name tattooed over his heart, - apple lollipop, - bathroom scene *imagine me with devilish grin*, - Griffin and The Hulk,  - promise rings and - Griffin being a dad...So, all you goodreaders, read this book while it's free!:)
He wrote a lot of love notes and letters to Kiera...
"I wanted to mark you, make you mine.”“I never made love until you." - Kellan Kyle” “I'll still be with you every night, Kiera.
I’m pretty sure that wherever I am right now, I have an ache, a hard, nearly painful ache…because I’m thinking of you." Letter from Kellan to Kiera.” “My day isn’t complete until I’m deep inside you.
Your body wrapped around mine is the only way I feel whole.
But don’t think it’s just sex and a physical response to you that I’m feeling.
While I loved reading more about Kellan, I don’t feel like I got much of a story until I hit the halfway point in the book.
Maybe I was just too drained from reading Thoughtless and I should have waited before moving on to this one.
I was so addicted to Kellan I couldn’t stop!!
The fact is, I couldn’t stop reading and was up until 3 in the morning, because I had to know what happened.
My suggestion is, if you read Thoughtless, give yourself a breather before you move on to this one.
❤❦ 5 Denver-Omelet-Orders Rating ❤❦  "Loving you, Kellan, is so easy, it's effortless... Trusting you... that's the hard part."  The story of Kellan and Kiera continues with some new challenges and self discoveries... and of course lots of HEAThe story picks up a year after the events of book 1. Everything remains pretty much the same and Kellan & Kiera are taking their relationship slow. With a booking to a local festival the Dbags get booked to travel with 6 other bands cross-country for 6
The story of Kellan and Kiera continues with some new challenges and self discoveries...
The struggle of a long distance relationship and things you do to maintain close.On some occasions Kiera managed to impress me, such as her instances to not move in with Kellan in begging.
but oh well I guess that's where the story needed to go.I don't know about everyone else, but I LOVE Griffin and his Hulk.
Or Anna is seriously screwed with 2 Hulks that will want to breathe all the time  (hide spoiler)]Now that the DBags have a recording contract I can't wait to see what new adventures they will get into...
**4.5 Stars**Just beautiful! Review to come!
It’s confusing,emotionally distraught,intense,but then again,it has a really good story, very romantic “you can feel the love in the air kinda of stuff” Sexually hot!
*sweaty palms* It’s everything that I love in a novel,I just really wished the heroine took her trusting and insecurities down a notch,but it is what is.If you’re not a fan of cheating and love triangles,then I would skip book 1 “Thoughtless” you can read the second book and enjoy it for the story that it is.
See once again I’m confused about my feelings for this novel.
"If words could be caresses, then he was making love to me everytime he sang."   [image error]  Source: Uploaded by user via Patti on Pinterest  "His voice was melted sex. Yes, melted...sex. He could still make me feel like he was looking at me for the first time, not the thousandth time. He still gave me butterflies."   [image error]  Source: Uploaded by user via Becca on Pinterest  "I know that I have to be with you. Everything else is just...details." I honestly don't know how to explain my
Kellan isn't so sure at first but Kiera talks him into it and the band go on their way for 6 months.
Kellan and Kiera's relationship not starting in a healthy way has left both with trust issues with the other.
And believe me, Kellan and Kiera have plenty of tests along the way.
But I loved the way in the end they learned to communicate, especially Kiera.
I feel in love with Kellan all over again in this book.
I swear I can't imagine anyone not falling in love with Kellan.
WOW if I thought I was in love with Kellan Kyle at the end of the first book, well I am head over heels giddy for him having finished Effortless.
Kiera matures significantly over the course of this book and that growth is evident by the end of Effortless.
I was so happy with the way this book wrapped up, it was a perfect ending and I cannot wait for the third book in this series to be released!
I don't think I could ever get enough of Kellan Kyle.
Just love him!
Okay he's not perfect- he's had problems but man he was pretty much perfect in this book <3Lets talk about Kellan because to be honest with you, i feel like I could talk about him all day long- especially after this book.
Yes I'm swooning after Kellan writes her saying something like that.
So of course at this point in the book, I'm seriously thinking I might faint...I mean it was getting a little hot over here after I read that.
I’m hoping that when I come back,you’ll move in with me.
Just don’t leaveme…please.I love you, always, Kellan
Feeling moronic, I whispered, "Touch it, pretend it's me." Oh god, I wanted to crawl into a hole and never come out again.I was expecting Kellan to chuckle, but he didn't...instead I heard some rustling around and I swear - a zipper un-zipping.
"Kiera...god...feels so good..."I whispered, "Do you have anything that would...?"In a strained voice, his breath hitching, he gasped out, "Yeah...hold on." I heard a distinctly squishy noise and wondered just what sort of lubricant Kellan had on hand, and why.Aching myself now, I moaned a little.
Unfortunately they don't seem to have a relationship that isn't based on sex, because it seems like thats all they like to do and its the band-aid to fix all of their problems.In Effortless, Kiera continues to whine and obsess over Kellan's good looks.
From where I sat, it really seemed like Kiera didn't truly love Kellan at all but was infatuated with his looks and in some sick ways, his bad reputation as being a player.
Not long after Kellan leaves, Denny suddenly arrives back in the same town (wow, small world much?) for work and he and Kiera brainwash each other into saying over and over again that they are just friends.
5 KELLAN LOVING STARS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!![image error] [image error]Reading this book for the third time was just as Effortless as the first. This book is the follow up to Thoughtless, and begins where Thoughtless left off. It is Kiera and Kellan’s story; a story that starts at the end of a love affair, and the beginning of a relationship.  “Loving you, Kellan, is so easy, it’s effortless.” His smile matched mine, then I frowned and sighed. “Trusting you…that’s the hard part.” He sighed, his eyes dr
5 KELLAN LOVING STARS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!![image error]
It is Kiera and Kellan’s story; a story that starts at the end of a love affair, and the beginning of a relationship.
After surviving the affair that brought them together and the lies that drew them apart, Kiera and Kellan have finally found their place to be together, to love each other without fear and without regret.
During this part of their story, Kiera and Kellan struggle to gain trust in each other and in their commitment to having a relationship.
I loved watching Kiera and Kellan bond as a couple.
Kiera and Kellans story continues If you read the first story, you will remember Kiera was with Denny, before she began cheating with Kellan. I tried hard to like those two being together but I just can't! Denny makes a surprise visit and the whole time all I wanted was those two back together. Denny deserves redemption and I find it hard to believe that he fell in love so quickly with another woman. I don't know I wasn't too crazy about this book, but I'm still going to read the third.
Kiera and Kellan’s relationship is in full bloom in this book and they are taking it one day at a time, being able to embrace their feelings for each other and enjoying not having to hide them from anyone.
They both have so much to prove to each other and I felt like I was on a chocolate-high from beginning to end.Denny also comes back in this book and we get closure on his relationship with Kiera once it blossoms into a genuine friendship, something that it perhaps should have been from the beginning.
“But, if for some reason we're not closer, if something has gotten between us, please, I'm begging you…don't give up on me. Stay. Stay with me. Work it out with me. Just don't leave me…please.” - Kellan  OMG. CRIED LIKE A BABY.An absolute perfection.A heart-wrenching, full of ups and downs that I even fall head over heels to Kellan! Honestly, if only he did exist in real life I would freakin combed this world for him. How I love their soul-tearing relationship with Kiera and yes I do agreed th
And even though most of the time I want slap Kiera on the face cause of her trust issues with Kellan, yeah I totally agree with her because Kellan is just the epitome of pure beauty of God's creation.
But Kellan trried so hard to work on building this trust even he's thousand miles away by his surprsing sweet notes, gifts and much more.
I will patiently wait for Reckless because every single cell of my body is craving and begging for more Kellan and Kiera's story.
Waitressing Position Available at Pete’s Bar? I’m ALL Over That!!! Waitress, Bar Fly, Groupie, Jogger at local parks (and I hate running) are all things that I would pursue just to get a chance with Kellan Kyle! Kellan Kyle is...gorgeous, sexy, funny, charming musician who is... Completely Swoon Worthy!!!To say Keira is a lucky lucky girl is putting it mildly. The second book of the series, Effortless, did not let me down! It was just as good (maybe even better) than the first book. I could not get enough of Kellan!!!
It is as equally heart wrenching and emotional as the first book and the characters grow even more lovable, if that is even possible...
I am already dying to read book 3, OMG I am like an addict!
She hasn't even started on it from what I understand :-(If you are looking for a great story with wonderful characters that will send your emotions reeling, then this really is a must read book for you!✳✳ Reviewed on I ♥ Bookie Nookie Reviews___________________________________________________If you like this type of book, you might enjoy one of these groups.
Check us out!Menage ReadersErotic EnchantsBookie Nookie's Erotic Lending Group
My boyfriend the rock star.... my Kellan....10/26/2012 - between books and need a little more Kellan.... mmmmmmm..... bathroom scene....... what a great way to start out a Friday.... The rare shade of his deep blue eyes. The perfect arch of his brow, the slant of his nose, the seductive curve of his lips, the strong angle of his jaw, his height, the lean cut of his body - physically, he was the epitome of what the ideal man would look like. But his heart, his soul, his pain, his humor, his music
My boyfriend the rock star....
my Kellan....10/26/2012 - between books and need a little more Kellan....
mmmmmmm.....
bathroom scene.......
what a great way to start out a Friday....
The rare shade of his deep blue eyes.
The perfect arch of his brow, the slant of his nose, the seductive curve of his lips, the strong angle of his jaw, his height, the lean cut of his body - physically, he was the epitome of what the ideal man would look like.
But his heart, his soul, his pain, his humor, his music...that's what ultimately made me ache for him.
[image error]
Oh it was a mess :( a tangled tale of half truths, mistrust and insecurity. A really bad combination. I only persevered because of the ray of sunshine that is Kellan Kyle brightened things up now and again. There are much better books to read before this so if you can choose, start one of those first.
Though I've got to say she dropped 2 HUGE clangers in this book that had me VERY annoyed!Kellan...*sigh*...the love notes, the reminders of his love for Kiera, this boy TOTALLY redeemed himself of anything anyone thought he did wrong in Thoughtless!!
I LOVED how he came through at the end, I was NOT expecting that..I know people got annoyed with him but I always kind of liked him (slightly disturbing I know!)I loved Thoughtless but I LOVED Effortless that bit more and these 2 books will definitely be re-read many times!!!
RE-READ UPDATE - 03/02-05/13 - Once you get past the angst and the emotional roller coaster that is Kellan and Kiera's lives, you can't help but love and adore this couple.
RE-READ UPDATE - 03/20-22/2012 - *Sigh*, I loved this book!ORIGINAL READ/REVIEW: 9/13-14/2012 - Effortless is book two in the Thoughtless series by S.C. Stephens.
I'd love to see these characters in future works but Im not sure if there's any plan for another one.
:)NOTE: Since this review, the author has added a thumbnail for a book three on this series.
Not sure when it will be out, but Im really excited to see more of Kellan and Kiera!
I was so reluctant to read it the first book was just too much emotion,betrayal and Kiera drove me up a brick wall.
But my my how she has grown.I think the direction the author took this book in was beautiful i enjoyed all the characters i also love Anna's storyline.
After everything Kellan and Kiera go through i was so happy to see them happy!
I loved the part Denny played in this book and i love the relationship he and Kiera share it is priceless.So back to what i was sayingTELL ME THERE WILL BE A BOOK 3?!?My RatingsCharacters- LovableWriting Style- Excellent and SolidPlot/Storyline- Strong/Page TurningOverall- A Very Good Read
The ultimate good guy.Now, I've read reviews that didn't like Kiera's "whining".
I mean if you are with a guy, even though he's with you and what he's done is in the past, I wouldn't like to have some of the 1500+ girls he's been with "thrown" in my face.
Denny(sigh)comes back but not for Kiera.
Kiera did wrong on not letting Kellan know that he was back but I saw her point on not telling him cause he probably would have left his career and come back for her or worse.
He has to trust Kiera that she won't cheat on him like she did with Denny.This book had drama, funny moments and it was ultimately sweet.
"I hid this one in the hopes that you would find it long after I'm gone.
I hope you find this months from now, when I'm still out there, on the road.
I'm hoping we're more in love than ever.
I'm hoping that when I come back, you'll move in with me.
In all honesty, I'm hoping that when I come back you'll agree to marry me someday.
I hope you feel the same...
I love you so much.But, if for some reason were not closer, if something has gotten between us, please, I'm begging you...
I love you.
The title is deceiving...it took a HUGE effort to get through this book.
The ending was such a throwaway.And I didn't think I could dislike Keira more...but I was wrong.
As despicable of a leading "protagonist" as she was in the first book, she was equally annoying in the 2nd one.
Yes, Kellen is swoon-worthy and I have to believe that's why people actually think they like this book.
I mourn the time lost reading both of these books.I need to hurry and read something else so I don't stew on this any longer.
