https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31338.Memnoch_the_Devil
Memnoch the Devil was nothing like what I was expecting as the next installment of The Vampire Chronicles.
He then spent the last two thirds of the book talking to the devil (and occasionally God).
It was written as what appeared to be an extremely long-winded interview (think Interview with the Vampire with Lestat as the interviewer).The basic premise of the novel and especially the detail with which Memnoch described the creation of Earth could have been enjoyable if Lestat didn't interrupt constantly with annoying and mostly pointless questions, as though reminding readers he was still there.
Memnoch the Devil was dry reading and dragged along slowly.
It is part of the vampire series, but you should be able to understand & enjoy the book without reading the others.The vampire, Lestat, is taken to heaven, hell, and back in time to creation and during the Christ era by Memnoch, the devil.
I love Anne Rice's books because she tells the story in a way that it could be true.
Anyways, it's a good book, but if you get upset by people twisting the stories of the Bible, it's probably not for you.
Go read one of her new books like Christ the Lord.
At the time that I read this book I was an agnostic, pagan, ex-catholic, confused about religion person.
Anne Rice's technique and passion is so persuasive that I was a true believer after reading this book.
And this was before she converted back to Catholicism!
She is just so powerful, her narrative technique is, I want to say, loving towards her reader.
I think her love for the characters she's created makes that happen.
Anyway, this one is a must for followers of the chronicles and fans of Lestat.
MEMNOCH THE DEVIL is a brilliant reinvention of good and evil. I still think about this book 16 years after I read it. One of my all time favorites. Rice was at the top of her game here.
It’s a vast amount of world building that is utterly irrelevant to anything the vampires do in their daily livesIf Lestat weren’t being dragged around to occasionally declare himself impressed/awed/horrified it wouldn’t be relevant at all.
So we get a really long and pointless backstory on this man and some books he read (which seem to be more part of the endless theological debate that basically comes down to “sex and pleasure and love are not bad things.
This was the last Anne Rice book that I ever personally plan to read, because after reading this I went into a three month fit of depression.The events in this book were just so powerful and terrible in some cases that my mind couldn't take it.
While I'm not going to say that I wouldn't recommend the book to people, I would at least put up the warning that a person may want to be weary about it if they aren't of any particular religion.
5.0 stars. Except for The Queen of the Damned, this may be my favorite installment of the Vampire Chronicles. I loved the descriptions of both heaven and hell and the arguments between Lestat and Memnoch regarding the nature of good and evil. Highly Recommended!!!
Albeit, there's nothing wrong with that in itself; but I was expecting to hear about vampires, and instead I hear about nothing but God and The Devil.If you plan to read this book (and perhaps you should if you plan to read the rest of the chronicles - which are worth a read, btw), I would highly recommend skimming through the 250-some pages at the middle of the book, paying close attention only to the beginning and end of the tale.
Memnoch takes Lestat through the story of Creation, takes him into Heaven and Hell, and explains his disagreements with God. I found this book to be utterly fascinating, and I think it's because I am obsessed with the idea of angels and the supernatural lately.
What I also enjoyed, was knowing that while Anne Rice was writing this, she was figuring out what her beliefs were, and I liked being able to go on the journey with her.This was very different to the other books in this series, but I thought that it was fresh and it has really kept my interest in the Vampire Chronicles alive.
In the previous book this is somehow a secondary topic (barely touching the idea of the imperfect God and the learning Devil), the tale being more focused on Lestat's chance at redemption, at being human again and at finding out and really understanding what exactly it means to be human.However, on Memnoch, Rice goes full-crazy-bitch on our asses.
This one felt like she thought it would be the last book in the series, before she started reheating all the other vamps and telling their stories (and come on, they're not Lestat so again, who cares), and the final lines would've been great series-ending-lines:(view spoiler)[I want you to see me now.
Yes, from chapter 6 until chapter 21 (I kept count), it was all one big monologue with some tedious, unnecessary interruptions by a whiny Lestat.
This book is not really a novel but Ms. Rice's essay on cosmology.
A really long, boring, rambling essay on cosmology with some characters thrown in.Half the time I was rolling my eyes at the implausibility of what written in the pages before me, like Memnoch asking Lestat to be his lieutenant.
Still don't know the answer to that one.Lestat cries so much in this book that I felt obligated to create a drinking game.
I deeply admired "Interview' w/its rich writing style of place and period, and its dispassionate portrayal of characters like Claudia, who after being a 6 year old vampire for decades has become a steely-eyed predator(ahem instead of a 100 year old vampire vegan w/an insatiable desire to...sit through high school english again and again).
The Vampire Lestat was equally good w/a wonderful shift in perspective that gave a great new spin to the character an events that transpired.
Nothing new: The Devil is a misunderstood humanist, while God is a brutal patriarch who walked the walk but never forgot he was the Big Cheese.There's no need for Lestat, no need for Vampires.
Phfft.
Flarp.
Argghh.
This book was so stupid.
I was really looking forward to reading the entire Vampire series especially after I really enjoyed "Tale of the Body Thief" but this one is just terrible.
3/4 of the book is a monologue by Memnoch which is so boring and parochial; he just keeps repeating himself.
It's like Anne Rice forgot how to write.
Lestat does almost nothing the whole book.
Notable hilarious exception involves a woman's menstrual blood (which is mentioned about 6 times throughout the whole book with one final paragraph-long sentence that describes him drinking this blood.
The writing is atrocious but I will press on with the next book.
When Anne Rice fans are asked which of her books they feel most passionate about — whether positively or negatively — the answer is almost invariable: Memnoch the Devil.
Acting as a bit of a precursor to Rice’s Christian fiction novels of the mid-00s, this book is tonally out of step with the previous Vampire Chronicles (save for, perhaps, Interview With the Vampire, as this too has the ‘feel’ of an interview in spots) And seems to be cause for great joy, and disgust, in many readers.
Lestat wants to know the will of God, and the Devil: what are their purposes for him?
Lestat is once again sensing a presence around him.
This is an evil presence.
My biggest issue with this book was Lestat’s literal obsession with drinking a woman’s period blood.
But seriously, you are a vile person to write about a vampire eating period blood, Anne Rice.
It was the one thing that took me out of the book.
It was a quick and fast-paced read that called a lot of questions of morality to mind.
If you don’t mind a vampire feeding on a woman’s menses, you’ll enjoy this book!
Lestat sought to find the answers to his unanswerable questions; where is God?
Lestat is awakened by this knowledge and as a result, so are we.Essentially, through this conversation between Memnoch and Leatat we see the biblical history and creation of mankind and life as we know it.
It is interesting to see God written this way, to see biblical history written this way, and when you throw vampires into the mix, it's always a fun time..One of the things that I love about this book, and what sets it apart for me from the rest of the series (so far), is that Memnoch the Devil isn't just a work of fiction.
I "L O V E D" this book. Very intriguing with its ideas and topics, highly unusual and controversial to say the least. In short, an awesome story of the vampire chronicles that just continues to mesmerize its readers. Same series, totally different direction. A. Rice is a talented author. Hard to put this down.
Seriously. Anne Rice was a Born Again Christian when she wrote this book. It shows. Too bad. Lestat as a wannabee saint? Please.
Now, this is not a bad thing per se but I tend to struggle with books that focus too much on religious aspects.
Book 4 (The Tale of the Body Thief) was amazing and I had great hopes for book 5.A book that features 'devil' in its title might easily be about religion but I wasn't prepared for the amount of theological discussion that was thrown my way.
Nevertheless, Lestat is still a pretty cool character - I like his way of looking at things.
I'm still looking forward to the next book in the series and hope that it will focus more on those aspects that I love about the series.
Memnoch surprised me with its vast scope but starting off with an intriguing plot thread, it soon degenerated to a very flat and predictable ending.Consider this, the devil taking along a vampire on a tour of heaven,hell and earth through the bloody alleyways of history to explain to the vampire why he should take sides with him against god.
There are dialogs galore about the nature good and evil, god and devil, salvation and damnation and all things spiritual from a Christian concept.
The concept of the devil has always posed a lot of questions for me, the fact that such an antithesis exists to the concept of god has baffled and interested me.
Just when I thought that this series couldn’t get any deeper, MEMNOCH THE DEVIL became the next book to read in this incredibly deep, rich and complex vampire mythology.
I do however think that Anne Rice wrote an extraordinarily deep work of fiction, so deep that if one finds themselves open-minded enough, it may in fact place some imaginative wonder into your thinking about just how little we really know of the afterlife, creation, how we got here etc; the likes of which you may have never pondered before.
And to me, stories like that, are the very best written works you can possibly read!
Anne Rice said of this book "I was also tormented by a multitude of theological and sociological questions, and I never anticipated a time when the answers would not matter to me, or a time when I would know a resolution."Yes - this is fiction and it's Anne Rice.
As I've been reading her work, all of it since finishing this novel, I'm amazed at the metaphor she's chosen to exercise her spiritual questions/struggle (in the vampire novels).
She's amazing and complex and incredibly spiritual.
People associate her with vampires.
still 4 stars. noooooo, don't go! I'm not ready for my revisit to be over
Memnoch was a hugely sympathetic character and whilst I could understand a little of God’s reasoning around the time of the crucifixion, I couldn’t help but agree wholeheartedly with Memnoch’s point of view and thought that God seemed less a benevolent, all-knowing and wonderful creator than a petty asshole for most of the time, struggling to justify himself for all of the suffering that abounds on earth and pretending like that was part of the plan all along.
This book delves deep into the idea of creationism as well as the eternal struggle between God & the devil since the beginning of time.
In this story, the devil reaches out to Lestat, a guilt-ridden immortal soul, who has, in his dark past, committed heinous acts and whose personal constitution disavows any belief in God or the devil, but seeks to repent for his misdoings.
In order to allow Lestat to understand how all things, in heaven & on Earth came to exist, the devil takes him on a poetic sojourn to both heaven & hell.This novel was a beautiful characterization & intrepretation of religious thought.
It reminded me of when I read A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam some years ago, or maybe I should say I tried to read it because I'm not sure how much of it I truly understood.In this installment of the Vampire Chronicles, Rice takes on one of the biggest controversies in theology today, why is there suffering in our world?
Why does G-d allow evil to exist in His world, His creation?
I wonder if anyone has thought to teach, to study Rice's books as an exercise in discussing religion?
First read in 2008.Re-read on audio, April 2017.

But I could better understand Christianity, I understood how marvelously Anne Rice found such an inspiration in religion to write this book.
You must read all Vampire Chronicles to understand what this books means.
The story of Lestat after this adventure could still continue and I see the tragic end or that good old ending.
I think it was the most serious book of Vampire Chronicles.
And it inspired me to read more about religion, it inspired me to write one story I still have no plot, not even name, nothing, just an idea.
I just finished a review of  The Witching Hour  and was reminded of my intense love for Memnoch the Devil. I never got around to writing anything about this book, so here we go.Memnoch the Devil was the first of Anne Rice's books that I had read, following her autobiography which I read for a class, and I was blown away. It was so different from what I expected from the author of "those vampire books," and perhaps that is the reason for many of the negative reviews here on Goodreads. Having gone
and was reminded of my intense love for Memnoch the Devil.
I never got around to writing anything about this book, so here we go.Memnoch the Devil was the first of Anne Rice's books that I had read, following her autobiography which I read for a class, and I was blown away.
It was so different from what I expected from the author of "those vampire books," and perhaps that is the reason for many of the negative reviews here on Goodreads.
Having gone back and read the rest of The Vampire Chronicles, I can say that Memnoch certainly is a departure from these stories.
