https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40383103-coyote-waits
Death slept in the bottle, only waiting to be released, and every policeman knew it.This was an excellent entry in Hillerman's Navajo Mystery series.Jim Chee is going to meet his fellow officer for coffee.
Was The Drink enough to drive this man to murder as it was when he killed that another decades ago?...Chee is determined to put whoever murdered his colleague away.Lieutenant Leaphorn is approached by two women - a relative of Pinto and a professor who was working with Pinto - to help Pinto get off.
I have been reading Tony Hillerman's books for about 30 years.
This book starts with Navajo Policeman Jim Chee finding the dead body of fellow Navajo Policeman Delbert Nez, shot dead and inside his burning patrol car.
Chee feels guilty that he wasn't there when Nez was killed and even though he is on sick leave recovering from his burns, he sets out to find out what happened to Nez. In the meantime, a shirttail relative of Navajo Police Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn comes to him and tells him that her uncle, Ashie Pinto, arrested for Nez' murder, is innocent.
Jim Chee investigates when a colleague is killed in what appeared to be a routine traffic stop. An elderly shaman is found, drunk and confused. Chee's object of affection is charged with defending the old man, and this creates a rift between them.Leaphorn decides to investigate and finds links to a legend and a lost fortune. Chee learns that maybe one simply can't be a shaman and a policeman.Not bad.
Hillerman's descriptions of the Southwest Border Country make me want to 'Go West, old lady!
But at lower levels the light that struck them had been filtered through the clouds over the Chuskas and turned into shades of rose, pink, and red.
They drove through a fiery twilight.Sadly, the love interests did not interest me and I found Chee's guilt trip over the death of his cop friend, Officer Delbert Nez, somewhat unconvincing.
The most compelling character was the elderly drunken Navajo charged with the murder of Officer Nez. Ashie Pinto is a shaman who says nothing on his arrest except "I am ashamed.
I know the names of the booksin Jim Chee's trailerfor yei's sakeI had coffee for breakfast this morn
As I stated before, this is my second installment of the Jim Chee series, and I have come away with the same mixed feelings I had on the first go-around.
The mystery seems to take a backseat to the lives and setting of the characters involved.
I would prefer a bit more intrigue in the whodunit portions of the series.Overall, tho, it was a quick, lite read ( I *did* enjoy this one better than the first), and I appriciate the opportunity to give it a go.
If you love mysteries set in the Southwest, you'll enjoy the great Tony Hillerman's Navajo Mysteries series.
We're introduced to Tribal Police Officer Jim Chee and FBI agent Joe Leaphorn.
These two men are embarked on the same wild case of a death of a Tribal Policeman Delbert Nez, which is nothing what it seemed to be.
From breath-taking Arizonan landscape to majestic New Mexican scenery, he painted a picturesque scene with various and eclectic characters.
He takes us on a wild ride on this mystery that has many surprises to keep us guessing right to the end with a wild twist.
Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee are two of my favorite characters, so I was pleased to re-discover this Tony Hillerman book. This one was as interesting and exciting as any of the previous ones. Both Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn have significant roles. Jim gets injured trying to get a friend out of a burning car. He is on medical leave but still follows up on leads. His former girl friend, Janet Pete has returned to the area and is defending the accused murderer. Navaho legends and scholarly research enter into the story as well
An enjoyable book of mystery with likable and complex characters. I like the setting and landscapes of the Four Corners area with trips to Albuquerque. The landscapes, Navajo legends and Butch Cassidy lore make this an intriguing read. Most of the book was so engaging that I can forgive the somewhat weak ending.
I'm sure I've read this one, but here it was on the shelf at our 100-year-old home rental in Maine. It's Leaphorn after his wife's death and he meets Louisa who becomes a romantic interest in subsequent books, as I recall.Also Jim Chee in the aftermath of his Minnesota white love going back home and Janet Pete returning from DC. He badly burns his hands trying to rescue a murdered Navajo police from a burning car.The plot is interesting as usual and a very quick read with the usual Navajo lore interlaced with the story.
The best of many worlds: a subtle murder mystery set on a Navajo reservation and the barren landscapes of New Mexico and Arizona. It made me want to travel to the Southwest again and to revisit the pueblos and reservations I went to. Very much reminded of the ways in which the richness and complexity of many Native American cultures clash or interact with American life and politics. But also: just a great book (aka stayed up late to finish it)!
This feels like one of the earlier Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn books.
By the time he reaches the car, it is fully engulfed in flames and Delbert Nez is dead,.Chee badly burns himself trying to get Nez out, and when he does, he realizes it’s too late.
Conveniently enough, drunken medicine man Ashie Pinto is shuffling down the road not far from the burning police car.
He’s convinced Chee and others have rushed to judgment, and he’s eventually certain Pinto isn’t the killer.I think there are other books in this series that I’ve enjoyed more, but this one is wonderful just the same.
I love every Leaphorn and/or Chee novel that Hillerman has written.However, as I have noted elsewhere, in the latter half of the series, the very annoying anthropologist, Louisa Bourbonette, makes her way onto the scene and ingratiates herself into Leaphorn's investigation with a degree of entitlement that always has rubbed me the wrong way.
I wrote him a letter to this effect at one point but it did absolutely no good.However, now I discover Coyote Waits, which appears to be the book where Leaphorn meets her for the first time.
As with all the novels in this series, I enjoyed learning about the spiritual practices of the Navajo. An elderly Navajo shaman is accused of murder. Unfortunately, he won’t deny, defend, or answer any questions. He simply sits in passive silence while Detectives Leaphorn and Officer Chee take separate paths to finding out the truth of the incident. Coyote is a wild card in Navajo mythology and a danger sign to anyone who knows his true character. The story takes us deep into the witch lands and strange happenings that take place there.
The best Leaphorn/Chee book in some time. The plot was strong and a bit deeper than some of the previous installments in the series I feel. Very unexpected ending (at least for me). But the ending was satisfying. No weird killings of children. Ties properly into the theme and title of the book. The ending made sense in the plot. Leaphorn is not so gloomy in this book, which helps. By Sacred Clowns I think he is fully out of his malaise.
Hillerman had a very good grasp on his primary characters by this point. Chee and Leaphorn both do not give up once they have a grip on something, they just approach it from different POV and methods. If memory serves, this is also the first time the two actually work together, so this is also a great jumping on point for readers new to Hillerman.READ IT!
Good read....not my favorite of this series but I did like it....Chee seemed to feel very down on himself because of his friends death...thought he was fingering the he wrong shaman...leaphorn was trying to figure everything out but he was not coordinating with Chee so things seemed a bit disconnected..
Just up the road from the murder scene, Chee finds and arrests a drunken Navajo shaman (Ashie Pinto) is found with a gun and a bottle of expensive whisky.
To justify himself and the arrest to Janet, Chee, while on medical leave (He burnt himself trying to get Nez out of the patrol car), tries to do further investigation of the murder on his own.
He also manages to put himself in harm’s way, which may be a theme with Chee.Meanwhile, it turns out that Leaphorn is related to the old shaman, and is called upon by family to investigate, but from the viewpoint of assuming Pinto’s innocence.
Coyote Waits by Tony Hillerman (Four Stars)Hillerman does this one up pretty well in a long winded tribute to the cunning, evil and almost man attributes of Coyote who, “ always waits outside and is always hungry.”The tale telling is well scripted in the part where old Pinto tells his tales of the Witches’ lair outside of the Ship Rock section of the reservation.
Love again creeps into the tale with the renewal of an old flame between Chee and the girl who went off to college and the simmering underground affair that seems to be working between Leaphorn and one of the professors who is helping with the case.
I like this little markets where people sell about anything secondhand, I have bought some great stuff including secondhand Hardcover books for next to nothing.
Did I mind, actuallu NO it didn't since it served the plot of the book and I would not be too surprised, reading the average sentinment these day towards other people than white religious rightwing folks, if some of this stuff is actually very true to the real world.The story tells about the death of a policemen of Indian decent and how his collegue is left with so many unanswered questions even if he apperently has caught the killer immidiately.
In Coyote Waits, Jim Chee makes a mistake on duty and a friend of his, another police officer, ends up murdered.
So, Chee, and eventually Joe Leaphorn, end up on the case, trying to unravel the mysteries of the night.Coyote Waits, to me, is a good, but not especially great, Hillerman novel.
The novel did draw a little extra dimension to these two characters, and I enjoyed that.What I thought was slightly weak was the plot.
In fact, little that Leaphorn and Chee do in the novel ends up mattering.
And it was a happy discovery when I read "Coyote Waits." With his cast of Navajo characters, including law officers Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee, the author introduces readers to the world of the modern-day reservation and the surviving Navajo culture in the Four Corners area of New Mexico and Arizona.The coyote of the title, from Navajo mythology, represents a darker side of human psychology, as it is understood by these Native Americans.
I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in well-drawn characters, the American West, and Native American culture and life.
Hillerman's Coyote Waits begins on the Navajo Reservation, which is approximately the size of West Virginia.
Hillerman's stock detectives are Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee, and in the beginning they tend to believe the FBI report that Ashie Pinto, a stereotype of the drunken Native American, killed Chee's buddy and fellow Tribal Officer Delbert Nez. Pinto is on the scene with the murder weapon and he's inebriated.
Indeed, thoughout the novel these figures and other features of Dine culture are interwoven into the plot.
It makes for an introduction of much of Southwestern culture.
In Navajo culture, the coyote is not loved.
Jim Chee waits for his friend, Navajo Tribal Policeman Delbert Nez, to join him for coffee.
However Nez, in trying to apprehend vandals is murdered, his car torched.
A drunk old man, Ashley Pinto, is near the scene carrying the murder weapon.
While emotionally distraught over his friend’s murder, he must dig deeper for Janet.
Furthermore, Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn starts his own investigation as a favor to some relatives.
Leaphorn believes that there is much more than what is on the surface.
But the evil coyote waits for them.
In high school I was basically obsessed with Tony Hillerman books.
I tried to read all of his books in my school's library.
The only thing I didn't like what I couldn't really figure out the order of the books, and so I read them out of order.
Read the book, because who knows what new world one might fall into?
You won't know if you like it unless you give it a try.
You won't know if you love them unless you crack open the cover and say "Chapter One...." What's the worst that could happen?
Coyote Waits 03242007 Tony HillermanJim Chee sits drinking coffee while partner Tribal Policeman Delbert Nez meets his demise.
Because of a relationship through is dead wife with Ashie Pinto's (the defendant) clan and also being pushed by Dr. Bourbonette (anthropologist), who insists that Ashie is being railroaded, Joe Leaphorn but also investigate from a different angle.
He is constantly thinking about what his dead wife Emma would say in the situation.Both men are pushed into what looks like an endless amount of overlapping mysteries of which the murder of Delbert Nez is just one.
I first became acquainted with Tony Hillerman novels over 20 years ago when I attended a book discussion course on mysteries at the public library.
I don't remember which Hillerman novel I read for that course, but afterward I read and enjoyed a number of his mysteries, this one included.This weekend we listened to Coyote Waits in the car while traveling to South Dakota for a wedding.
(NOTE: you can always tell when a book with a seemingly present-day setting was written PRE-cell phone such a this one.
Coyote Waits was an excellent mystery, but I thought that Chee was sometimes annoying and whiny.
Since he'd been badly injured at the beginning of the book and was in pain he had a right to whine, however, that wasn't what he was complaining about.
He thought, without anything to back it up, that Leaphorn thought he was a screw-up and that he was investigating the case either to backup Chee's work or to prove his point.
All that aside, the mystery itself was well plotted and thought out.
It was fun for Hillerman to add a bit of western lore to the plot.
I really loved this book.
I should probably be ashamed, though, that since I usually don't like mysteries (read: really hate them), what kept me interested in the mystery from the beginning was the hint that the supernatural might be involved.
But in the end, it wasn't, and that made me think.
The whole time I was reading, my mind was imagining fantastical scenarios, trying to figure out the mystery myself--but everything I came up with was wrong.
In the end, the crime in question was mediocre.
(As if the book were saying to me: take that, sci-fi/fantasy reader.)
I've read a lot of Tony Hillerman books, and love that while each plot is different, the main characters are familiar to the reader.
Leaphorn and Chee begin to like each other more, and Chee goes through several relationships which, while often hard to look at (I'm not much of a fan of Janet Pete) he eventually ends up with a fellow officer who is good for him.
In this book in particular, I like how despite all the investigation done by both Leaphorn and Chee, the old man is still held responsible for his crimes, and doesn't get off just because it would make the book end on a happier note.
