https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1477344.Invitation_to_the_Waltz
"Did I built it into something too perfect?" If you're like me and find it difficult to enjoy anything without feeling sad for the inevitable moment of it ending you'll probably like this curious nostalgic feeling of a seventeen year old girl's first encounter with, well, looking around at other people (and maybe trying to avoid the meeting of the eyes in the looking around) to see if someone else might get the 'If you're like me..." feeling.
It's about feeling like there could be some imagination about that background and others fitting into it.

For her pretty, charming elder sister Kate, the dance is certain to be a triumph, but what will it be for shy, awkward Olivia?
Exploring the daydreams and miseries attendant upon even the most innocent of social events, Rosamond Lehmann perfectly captures the emotions of a girl standing poised on the threshold of womanhoodOpening: The village, in the hollow below the house, is picturesque, unhygienic: it has more atmosphere than form, than out line: huddled shapes of soft red brick sag towards gardens massed with sunflowers, Canterbury bells, sweet williams.Sometimes it is perfect to hunker down into the flannelette-esque comfort of a plotless prose that displays such beauty.
Because Lehman whose style echoes Woolf’s and would have been impossible without Woolf as a mentor, can write beautifully but operates on an altogether more superficial level to Woolf.
There’s a lovely deft sketchiness to Lehman’s style but it’s like watercolour in contrast to Woolf’s grounded pigments.
You could though say that Lehman goes no further than the reflections on the water as beautifully and insightfully as she paints them, whereas Woolf goes under the water and brings forth a whole new underlife.
First published in 1932, but set around 1920 Invitation to the Waltz is the story of a dance, seventeen year old Olivia's first ever, which she will attend with her beautiful older sister Kate.
Olivia and Kate's family comprises a socially aware mother an elderly father, odd Uncle Oswald, and endearingly sweet 7-year-old brother James.
Olivia meets some interesting characters at the dance – a young blind man, a rather miserable poet as well as the son of the household Rollo Spencer.
Yes, I can say I’ve enjoyed myself.”The dance held for the effervescent Marigold Spencer – is both an excitement and an agony for Kate and Olivia.
I came across this book due to comparisons with I Capture the Castle, another wonderful coming-of-age book and a favorite of mine.Invitation to the Waltz is told from the POV of Olivia, 17 year old protagonist, who has been invited to her first dance.
The author's beautiful prose makes these encounters and the people come alive.The best part of the book is the dance itself.
At the end of the dance, Olivia looks upon everything with a new maturity and insight.
The naive young girl grows up.The ending is a hopeful yet sad one, as Olivia realizes that one dance has changed everthing.
The moment I turned the last page, I exclaimed, "Wow." It's very difficult for me to articulate why I find this novel so enchanting and endearing.
I think that as a 17-year old, I was a lot like the protagonist, Olivia, and the turning point of my teenage years, the moment when everything changed, also coincided with a dance.
And much like her, I was sensitive, overly empathetic, and disliked most things aside from the 19th-century novel.
Like her, I remembered and internalized all my interactions with people, but I would fade away from their memories the moment I stepped away.
This was the first Lehmann I read, and it's still probably my favorite. It's a simple snapshot of a teenage girl getting ready for and going to her first dance. Nothing momentous happens, but it's not meant to; it's just a beautifully written, sympathetically perceived portrait of its heroine, Olivia, and a short span in her life.
This charming book, first published in 1932, follows the sensitive Olivia Curtis through two important days of her life: her seventeenth birthday and, a week later, her first dance.
Set in 1920, it evokes the clumsy mixture of eagerness, innocence and embarrassment that surrounds a girl who longs to live to the full but knows she is not one of the prettiest ones.This is a wonderful portrait of a girl on the brink of womanhood and a particular time and place.
Rosamond Lehmann is probably best known for the sequel, ‘The Weather in the Streets’ … I will be looking for that one next.
This was a lovely little novel about a seventeen year old girl and her first dance. We've all been there; the fear that she'll be a wallflower, the awkwardness of making small talk, the dress that's not as nice as she had imagined, trying to figure out how to navigate the adult world. The action takes place in 1920, but seems very contemporary. Some things never change. The author does a wonderful job of putting you inside Olivia's mind and emotions.
The introduction of a young lady in the London Society.And the ending of her innocence and happiness.
What could have been, with a less talented and sharp writer, a shallow, sentimental, soapy romance novel, becomes with the great Rosamond Lehmann a masterful exploration of adolescent angst and dreams, and one of the most delightful evocation, not only of a young girl's psyche, but also of a whole British social class at a certain time of its history.
Maybe it's the intelligence with which Lehmann deciphers what goes on in her young character's brain.
3,5 - 4
What I found is that Rosamund Lehmann has been influenced by Virginia Woolf's writing concepts, and the stream-of-consciousness method.The entire book takes place during one day, similar to "Mrs. Dalloway".
As the dance itself is depicted the girls have very different experiences, with Olivia, the more sensitive of the two, ending up dancing with men who might be considered "damaged" - one blinded during the war, an old man who is lonely because his wife has died, and an "aesthete" who hates being at the dance and lets everyone know about it.
Living is going on on the other side of the wall, but I’ve left it. I don’t want it. I hate it; it hates and rejects me. I forget and am forgotten. I’m nothing.  The Beginning: The village, in the hollow below the house, is picturesque, unhygienic.Olivia Curtis is shy and sensitive; her sister Kate is beautiful and popular. Olivia reads books and writes poetry, Kate is social and outgoing. They’re both invited to a ball and we follow their expectations and feelings towards their peers – potenti
The Beginning: The village, in the hollow below the house, is picturesque, unhygienic.Olivia Curtis is shy and sensitive; her sister Kate is beautiful and popular.
Olivia reads books and writes poetry, Kate is social and outgoing.
Over the years, I’ve learned to act like a Kate, but deep down inside I have an Olivia – and I treasure her.It was the beginning of the mood that led to wanting to write poetry.
Even though her writing is beautiful, she never really takes us there, right to the centre of our heroine’s soul.Some time later, I’ll think about this.
I’m going to a dance.
It was written in 1932 and even now I've probably read more school stories from that era than I have adult literature; and the central character is seventeen year old Olivia who is more-or-less the kind of upper middle class nice girl who might have turned up at the Chalet School or its ilk.It was just the same turns of phrase and atmosphere that linked this book to my childhood reading though, this is a more honest look at a young woman.
My first foray into the work of Rosalind Lehmann will not be my last. Lehmann presents a beguiling story of a week in the life of a young woman that includes her birthday and an important dance. Within this tight structure, the author develops interesting characters, explores issues of class and describes English country society between the wars. All the blogs were right--this is a terrific novel.
I wasn't too fussed about the over convoluted descriptions of nature, but Olivia's dancing partners and her conversations with them were spot on. Very funny, sweet book about growing up and how at seventeen everything feels so serious and the future is a terrifying thing. I especially liked the talk with her Uncle suggesting she won't feel comfortable with herself until she's about 30, and Olivia is horrified.
I actually felt sad when this book ended. It went too swiftly! I felt downhearted that I had to leave dear Olivia (and Kate) after knowing them for only a short while. Thank goodness there is a sequel or else I would feel much sadder than I do now. Rosamond Lehmann = majorly talented author. I am convinced she could turn a story about watching paint dry into a compelling and beautiful read.
The writing is beautiful and, although I thought it was going to be a difficult read at first, I soon got into the rhythm.
There are several wonderful character sketches of the people that Olivia encounters, from the children of the sweep, the unmarried dressmaker and the lace saleswoman, to the retired Major from India and the lonely widower, to the blind chicken farmer and the disappointing Curate, from the angry aesthete, to the drunken soldier and on to the kind and sophisticated Rollo.
I'm now really looking forward to reading the sequel, which picks up with these characters after a 10 year interval - 'The Weather in the Streets'.
El baile en si mismo, es el mundo que espera a Olivia, a punto de dejar la adolescencia.
La inmersión de Olivia en este su primer baile, las ansiedades, la anticipación y la excitación, y la gente que irá conociendo en esta noche, realmente la ayudará a conocerse mejor a sí misma y a desenvolverse en ese tan cercano mundo adulto al que está a punto de adentrarse esta chica de 17 años.
El baile es el simbolo de esa nueva vida, la primera mirada que tiene de ese mundo todavia desconocido, no tan comódo ni tan protegido, pero esperanzador para una mente curiosa como la de ella.
Gave up at part 2. Completely uninterested in the writing, the characters and the story.
3,5/5*
I probably would have liked this more if I had read it first as an adolescent. 3*
I probably would have liked this more if I had read it first as an adolescent. 3½*
Glorious. I was left with that wonderful feeling of wanting to read everything a writer has written.
Gently novel that has some beautiful written passages. I could identify with Olivia and enjoyed the way her thoughts were shown.
Yet at same time, Olivia’s observations of both herself and others are often wonderfully amusing.However, there is a sense of hidden danger given Olivia’s character—as her Uncle Oswald stated, there’s a tendency for wanting “what other people tell [her] to want.” She has that strong youthful desire to please everyone, even though deep down, she knows that that it might not always be possible.
Ultimately for Olivia, her first party is a valuable learning experience.
Yet rather than dashing away all of that youthful optimism, the book leaves the reader with a feeling of hope at the end—regardless of the near past and near future—everything may turn out all right.
On the one hand, I have to say that it was amusing and endearing to get under the skin of the teenage girl, Olivia, as she prepares for the all-important first dance.
On the other hand, this is not a book I would pick up thinking, I really must find out what happens.
I had read, many years ago, Dusty Answer (also by her) which was a darker sort of book, and which I found strangely haunting, although unsatisfactory to me, in some ways, because I could not identify with the type of people who were the main characters.
This book follows seventeen year old Olivia in the days before her first dance. We meet an array of different characters, from her beautiful sister, Kate to the cheeky children of the village all seen from Olivia's point of view, some times innocent, yet often with a wry insight and always with tenderness. I loved the flow and rhythm of this story as you bounce along with Olivia. Also, although the book is set clearly within a 1920s time frame and within a certain class, I think young girls of today would find plenty to relate to.
Delicada y preciosa historia sobre la presentacion en sociedad de una señorita inglesa poco después de la I Guerra Mundial.El baile, centro de la historia, aparece como un simil del "gran mundo" que rodea a la alta sociedad rural inglesa, además de como una barrera, cruel y definitiva, que separa los dulces sueños de la juventud de los duros embites de la vida.Delicioso y MUY recomendable. Y lo publica Errata Naturae, ¿que mas quereis?
