https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/594161.The_Murderer_is_a_Fox
نصفه رهایش کردم. به خواندنش نمی ارزید. برخلاف اسمش که بشدت مرموز بود و جذاب. داستان تا حد دهشت آوری کسل کننده بود .نه داستان قتل مهیج بود. نه خود کارآگاه شخصیت جالبی داشت. و نه مسیر یافتن قاتل چیز قابل وصفی بود. حیف آن همه تمثیلات لانه روباه و....برای این کتاب حوصله سر بر!بهمن ماه 94/ژانویه 2016
یه رمان پلیسی که اونقدر جذابیت داشت که 350 صفه رو بیوقفه بخونم. یه جور خوبی بود یه جور خانوم مارپلیای
یه رمان پلیسی که اونقدر جذابیت داشت که 350 صفه رو بی‌وقفه بخونم. یه جور خوبی بود یه جور خانوم مارپلی‌ای
This was an excellent story about a WWI soldier who comes home with PTSD.
His father was convicted of killing his mother when the soldier was 10, and he's always feared he, too, would be a killer.
The added stressed of the War has him fearing he'll crack and kill his wife.
This leads to Queen reopening the case against his father.
A great deal of the beginning focuses on Davey Fox and his PTSD, and I really grew to like him and his wife a lot.
Ultimately this was an excellent mystery, but I'm not sure how I feel about the ending.
کتاب موضوع جالب و فوق العاده ای برای پیگیری مداوم داشت. بطوریکه تا لحظه تموم شدنش دلم نمیخاست رهاش کنم.معصومیت بچه و از طرفی رها کردن خوشبختی و سکوت یک پدر برای ارامش ابدی بچه ش و از طرفی سوئ تفاهم و نااگاهی برای پایان دادن زندگی یک نفر. بی نظیر بود.
آفرین به نویسنده هاش احسنت .مجبور میشی بیوقفه همش رو بخونی 354صفحه
داستان معمایی جالبی بود و با اینکه در این زمینه مسلما کتاب های بسیار بهتری از نظر من پیدا میشود ولی برای اینکه بین دو کتاب خستگی در کنید این کتاب ساده و روان را با پایانی دلپذیر توصیه میکنم
Another great Ellery Queen who-dun-it. Perhaps, one of his finest. This story is Ellery at his best, full of red herrings, convoluted relationships, last minute clues and Queen's solving of the crime with a twist. Written over 70 years ago, Ellery Queen's stories still provide entertainment and enjoyment for his Legion of fans. A very good read.
This is the first book I read from the series. I like the layout and how the authors display the time for the evidence. Of course, you would want to know who the killer is but at the same time, it's just painful to know the truth... It's not the first time I read the story like this. I kind of understand why there are things should forever stay in the dark...
La prima parte è lenta ed aspetta un po’ troppo per cominciare ad entrare nel vivo della storia.
Riguarda un delitto commesso anni prima e la le pagine della ricostruzione dei fatti che ne fa Ellery chiamato a far riaprire un caso ormai chiuso questa è la parte più debole, non riesce a ricreare né suspense né trepidazione.
Nemmeno serve ad introdurre i personaggi che, a parte Bayard Fox, non rimangono impressi nonostante le forzature nel carattere di alcuni.
Another Wrightsville story---Queen must have really liked Wrightsville---this one features the tragically contemporary figure of a shellshocked young man just returned from war (in this case WWII).
There are an awful lot of references to "Japs" who needed to be killed, and the relentless portrait of a secondary character as repulsive because he's overweight are pretty appalling.
But it's still Ellery Queen, it's still an exercise in methodical, meticulous research and the careful process of elimination.
Also, I love the description of the huge '40s-era kitchen.
That's my kitchen!You probably won't buy the solution.
It's a love story in the end, just not the one you thought of at first. Twists & surprise ending. No gore, sex or language. Recommended. I loved his insightful comments on the married couple. I thought it was the sister-in-law. Hahaha - the American Sherlock Holmes does it again. Many of the series are now available in audio. Hard/soft cover & TTS-enabled eBook available. eBook has no editing errors that I found. ©1945 text © 2014 audio Well read by Mark PeckhamSome of the original TV shows are available, I'm told.
This was my first Ellery Queen mystery.
The story was more complex than I thought it would be, written in ‘45 the main character is a former fighter pilot with the shakes and his troubled return to civilian life.
His wife contacts Queen thinking he can solve a 12 year old case involving the pilots father.
This is the second time Queen left New York for this this upstate small town.
Queen is an interesting character.
I don’t think we ever get a description of him.
It is almost like an ego-less narrator.
I will read more of his work and look forward to them.
I listened to this audiobook. Ellery Queen is asked to go to a small New York town to reopen an investigation into the murder of a WWII hero's mother. The war hero's father was convicted of poisoning her 12 years earlier and is in prison. Ellery must reexamine all the damning evidence and at first it seems no miscarriage of justice has taken place. The father does indeed look guilty. But Ellery doggedly turns over all the old recollections and uncovers the surprising truth.
Ellery returns to Wrightsville to solve a 12 year old case. The Wrightsville cases always seem to have a cloud of despair hanging over them. You get the feeling that you're not going to like the solution. This one contains a lot of the classic Queen tricks, with loads of red herrings and even a sort of false solution, followed by the true.
Un giallo che affronta il sotto genere del delitto avvenuto molti anni prima e che bisogna in qualche modo ricostruire. Piacevole in questo lato di indagine storica e abbastanza accurato nella psicologia, difetta secondo me un pò nel ritmo pur restando godibile.
Perhaps my favorite story of the Queen canon of mysteries. A story-within-a-story is the theme here. Two crimes are solved. Ellery is at his brightest and best. Genius by the authors, once again. Rare gem of a book.
The only Queen mystery that I was able to work out the identity of the murderer.
Clear, perfectly clued, and succinct. One of my favorites of the Wrightville books.
My least favorite of his earlier work that I've read.
read SOMETIME in 2004
