https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68985.The_Power_of_Full_Engagement
I first heard about this book in a great blog post (don't have the link) that summed up actionable steps on how to get the most out of your productive day.
They recommended the book as an ultimate resource and expansion on the post.
Turns out the post just effectively summed up 200+ pages of motivational speech and personal resume touting without all the fluff.What it basically boils down to is that you should eat healthy, take plenty of rest, find something to be motivated about, and that "life is a series of sprints" instead of a marathon to the finish.
The central conceit of "The Power of Full Engagement" is that "Energy, not time, is the fundamental currency of high performance" - basically the number of hours you work is less important than your energy levels during those hours.I picked up this book because I was pretty burnt out.
But as I read this book, I realized that although my time was nominally managed quite well, I had lost the balance in my life and the quality of both my work and my personal life and fitness were suffering as a result.Loehr and Schwartz do an excellent job laying out their philosophy on how to be fully engaged.
This was not my book.
My hackles were raised on page 42 when the authors detailed publisher Nancy Woodhull's busy work-focused lifestyle - e.g. enjoying recording new ideas while on holiday - adjacent to her death from cancer aged 52.
Not cancer.
Work stress does not cause cancer.b) that wording...?And c) you don't need to threaten readers with cancer in order to spruik the benefits of a balanced life.The book is from 2003, and it's in a very dated 90s style of writing.
Like most "business" books, this is, at its core, a magazine article padded with examples from the authors' consulting clients. But I found the book's emphasis on managing one's energy instead of one's time to be interesting and useful.
I remember working 20 hour days and just pushing and pushing until I was 'done' (which was impossible).
But with a new job, 9 hours of pure focus is exhausting.
This book prompted me to set up some daily intervals on my calendar to 'recover' and see if I can get more done in less time if I attend to the other parts of my life more fully.
Here's a quote: "Purpose fueled by the feeling of deficit also narrows our attention and limits our possibilities.
Your purpose immediately becomes mobilized around keeping the boat from sinking.
Керування часом неефективне. Керування власною енергією - ось що нам потрібно. В книзі описується як розвивати фізичну, емоційну, розумову і духовну енергію. Це досягається через інтервальні тренування, що дозволяють максимально викластися та повністю відновитися.Дуже круто описана система тренування, що практично перевірена як на спортсменах світового рівня, так і професіоналах компаній із списку Fortune 500. Визначення цілі, прийняття реальності та вироблення корисних ритуалів - ось три головні кроки до життя на максимумі.
The message is clear: optimal performance comes from living a balanced life, not from working 12-15 hours straight.
Our work culture is built on the assumption that we function like computers, in a linear fashion.
Sleep, good nutrition, regular exercise, a healthy emotional life and a strong sense of purpose are essential factors for our performance and general well-being.
For me, I found that I needed more sleep, more exercise and more time to do non work-related activities, such as reading, writing and watching movies/documentaries.
But the results - in terms of performance and quality of life - should be well worth it...
Отличная книга про все виды энергии у человекая, что с ними делать. Как прокачать каждый отдельный «мускул» и конкретные примеры с экшен планом. Одна из лучших книг по теме энергии!Рекомендую тем кто в стрессе или не может «собраться». Ещё один плюс , она короткая :)
While the idea of needing stress and recovery for maximal performance was not foreign to me, this book makes the value of "oscillation" super clear, whether it's for getting the most out of physical training with intervals, maximizing mental performance at work, or increasing emotional control and resilience.
If you don't oscillate, you're a "flat-liner"!I disagree with some of the book's advice on eating, particular its encouragement of snacking / 5-6 small meals a day, but I suspect that's mostly because the book was published in 2003, so the advice is a bit dated.
If you're interested in personal development, this is one of the first books you should pick up.
Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz have studied high-performance athletes to determine what makes the very top players different from the players who could be at the top but aren't.
Finally, its all wrapped up in how the program is put together, the results that it has achieved for their business clients and a simple system for how you can start getting similar results.This is by far one of the best books I've ever read on personal development and hits at all the core areas of life.

It talks about making sure we are balancing our spiritual, mental, emotional and physical energy.
I really enjoyed reading the case studies and looking at the process/worksheets in the book that let you follow what they do for their clients.
There were a few places I felt they exaggerated to make the point (the fifty-year old who died from a heart attack allegedly because she couldn't relax), but overall it was a fun read.
If you're in a huge hurry, scan the bullet points at the end of each chapter and use the worksheets in the back.
We spend our energy at work and at play, the trick is to understand how you work and how much renewal you need and when you need it to perform at your best.Each person and profession is different, and failure to achieve the proper amount of renewal will result in lower performance no matter much effort is put forth.
The book offers useful tools to assist you with discovering more about how you achieve the proper work/renewal ratio.I liked how this book flowed and the examples used to illustrate the message.
This book was pretty insightful and the most useful nugget of information is found in the first chapter -- its not about time, its about energy.
The first 2 chapters expand on this theme and offer methods for better managing this precious resource - eat better, exercise, sleep well (duh) others like taking respite breaks, making transition and planning rituals were new and useful.
Once you read the first two chapters, the following are semi-redundant and re-emphasise points in the first -- spinning out the theme with a pyramid chart, self-diagnostics, clever acronyms and methods ...
Неожиданно отличная книга: мало воды, понятная структура, убедительная аргументация. Возможно, запрос хорошо совпал с содержанием. О чем книга? Энергия бывает духовная, физическая, умственная и эмоциональная. В каждом виде энергии свои "мускулы", которые нужно тренировать, подвергая систематически стрессу. Поддержание баланса энергии - ключевой навык мощной жизни. Действия, приводящие к успеху, - осознанные ритуалы. Только регулярные маленькие шаги способны привести к значительным результатам, но все начинается с определения корней, ценностей, так как базовый резерв энергии лежит именно на этом уровне (духовная энергия).
A great book to shift your concept from time management to energy management.
It looks at what fuels your energy on a physical, emotional, mental and spiritual level and causes you to rethink your values and what drives you.
The book provides some excellent exercises to help you move forward in becoming energy efficient.
The book does not offer quick fix ideas but rather sound wisdom on how to live a more fuelled life.
I knew the book was worth the money I paid for after reading the first chapter.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is feeling like they themselves are stopping themselves from achieving their best.
Основная идея книги в том, что мы управляем энергией, а не временем. Мне этот подход очень понравился. Даны практические советы и примеры из жизни как увеличить энергетические ресурсы человека. Также отмечу, что самым главным является чередование работы и отдыха. Книга безусловно полезна, рекомендую.
This is an amazing book that shows how important it is to address yourself at all levels: spiritual, emotional, mental and physical, in order for peak life performance. A must read.
Там надерганы разрозненные рекомендации из методов управления стрессом (уменьшение негативных эмоциональных состояний), а также приведены основные идеи из модели эмоциональной зрелости (хотя самих таких моделей только я знаю четыре :), и далеко не факт, что используемая авторами модель - самая эффективная на практике) и эмоционального интеллекта.
отрицательные эмоции - далеко не всегда "зло", и имеют свою собственную мощную энергетику, которую можно и нужно использовать "в мирных целях" :) Но в книге ничего про это нет, минус :(5) Довольно слабая глава про интеллектуальную энергию.
Just another self-development book which I like to read so much on my way to the office.Two things that I got from this book:1) There are only 24 hours each day.
And you can't increase this number no matter how hard you want this.
The only way to get more done is to manage your energy.2) There are 4 kinds of energy: physical, emotional, brain(?) and spiritual.
They didn't say it like that in the book but you can really consider is to be a pyramid.
If you don't have enough physical energy you can do literally nothing.
I think I had way too many expectations for this book, because it ended up being quite disappointing. It had all the common sense stuff, just rehashing of it, i.e.; eat healthy, drink less, quit smoking, get more sleep, exercise, lower stress levels, take more time for yourself. It’s always good to be reminded, but all in all, the book was quite boring.
Thoroughly enjoyed this book , couldn't put it down. Though I don't agree with the author's specifics of living one's life , it brings up valid points on stress and recovery, rituals, values, relationships and overall work life rhythm. Highly recommend for any professional.
Best self-help book I've ever read in my life.
Such a powerful read! I've learned so much on how I can use my energy to the fullest and how my values effect my life. A solid 4 star read and one which should be more proclaimed.
Really good information, however, it was quite basic and wasn't too compelling of a read. Didn't feel that warm or personal. Felt a bit clinical. Not bad.
When was the last time you truly let go and felt fully disconnected?The mental energy that best serves full engagement is realistic optimism—seeing the world as it is, but always working positively towards a desired outcome or solution.He worried that he would antagonize the chairman of his company, members of his own board and key clients if he tried to end meetings with them at a specific time.
Хорошая, системная книга о том, как правильно управлять своей энергией: как восполнять запасы, увеличивать резервы и не расходовать впустую.В сравнении с теми же "Джедайскими техниками" более фундаментальная и широко применимая.
The Power of Full Engagement lays out the key training principles and provides a powerful, step-by-step program that will help you...Above all, this book provides a life-changing road map to becoming more fully engaged on and off the job, meaning physically energized, emotionally connected, mentally focused, and spiritually aligned."Here is a paragraph I pulled out that I thought was interesting, talking about the athletes they worked with initially:"Over eighty of the world's best players have been through our laboratory...These players typically came to us when they were struggling, and our interventions have often produced dramatic turnarounds.
Expanding capacity requires a willingness to endure short-term discomfort in the service of long-term reward.Emotional capacity, the ability to move freely and flexibly between our own opposites.Mental capacity - attention span, realistic optimism.A single negative thought is what gets you hit in the face.
Because change requires moving beyond our comfort zone, it is best initiated in small and manageable increments.”~ Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz from The Power of Full EngagementThe Power of Full Engagement is a *great* book.
It’s so densely packed with Big Ideas we can apply to our lives that, if you’re feelin’ low on energy or if you’re the kinda person who likes to play full out and is always looking for ways to optimize, this book is on the “must buy” list.
:) Grounded in the research and consulting they’ve done with the world’s greatest athletes, Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz provide a set of Ideas and tools to help “Corporate Athletes” function at optimal levels of performance.
