https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7468160-every-last-one
If you have experienced a devastating event that has permanently divided your life into a "Before" and an "After," this book will really speak to your heart.
For maximum impact, it's best to know as little as possible prior to reading the book.
I will say this: The first half of the book seems like rather ordinary domestic fiction.
I almost gave up about 100 pages in.
But I can't truly wish on her what I know now." Every Last One is a book I will read again.
I know that some people found the first half really slow but I feel that the author wanted the reader to really know this family......beforeWhen I first started reading this novel, the only thing I knew was that is was about a family tragedy.
I didn't even read the description on the back of the book.Honestly I don't think there's much more I can say about it as I don't want to spoil it.
It's a book that will make you cry, make you angry and make you think....This novel made me question the way I parent and also parenting in general.
Traveling Sister Read Review by NORMA, LINDSAY and BRENDA!!4.5 stars rounded up to 5 stars for EVERY LAST ONE as this novel took us all on an extremely emotional roller coaster of a ride!EVERY LAST ONE by ANNA QUINDLEN is a novel that can be compared to riding a very steep roller coaster.
ANNA QUINDLEN does a great job bringing truth and understanding of human behaviour and emotions to this heartbreaking story that had Lindsay in tears for most of the second half of this novel.While the first half of this story did drag a little for us as it was all about character development – it builds the backstory and gives the family history needed to fully understand the entire plot.
Another amazing Traveling Sister Read with Brenda and Norma! Once again, it was an honour to be included in one of their amazing sister reads - I loved every second of it! This was a great book to read together as it was very intense and sparked a lot of interesting conversation.4.5 stars rounded up to 5 stars for EVERY LAST ONE as this novel took us all on an extremely emotional roller coaster of a ride!To see our full Traveling Sister Review, please visit Norma and Brenda's fabulous book blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
4.5 Traveling Sister Read with Norma and LindsayAbsolutely loved this reading experience and loved the conversation we had sharing our thoughts. Full review can be found on Norma's review or on our sister blog http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
UPDATE: 4/26/2015 I read this book years ago --and had given it 3 stars at the time...I came back today to give it 5 stars ---My reason for changing it --is because its very clear this book left a lasting impression on me.
A message in the book is strong.
I had a friend say to me: "You should read this book, you have daughters"!
It was well written--I didn't feel manipulated like a lifetime movie might do--but its a heavy plot--(handled with care and compassion by the author)....but I know people who would NOT do well reading this book.
Blurb In this breathtaking and beautiful novel, the #1 New York Times bestselling author Anna Quindlen creates an unforgettable portrait of a mother, a father, a family, and the explosive, violent consequences of what seem like inconsequential actions.Mary Beth Latham is first and foremost a mother, whose three teenaged children come first, before her career as a landscape gardener, or even her life as the wife of a doctor. Caring for her family and preserving their everyday life is paramount. A
In this breathtaking and beautiful novel, the #1 New York Times bestselling author Anna Quindlen creates an unforgettable portrait of a mother, a father, a family, and the explosive, violent consequences of what seem like inconsequential actions.Mary Beth Latham is first and foremost a mother, whose three teenaged children come first, before her career as a landscape gardener, or even her life as the wife of a doctor.
What seems like a normal happy life for an ordinary family of two parents and three children, turns out to be something totally different when the mother's idea of happiness is exploding in her face.
I recommend reading this book knowing very little about it.
I always read the cover and inside covers first and what I learn usually whets my appetite and rarely am I disappointed to have the information.
However, the inside front cover of this book revealed more than I wanted to know.
Perhaps that’s just me; I don’t know.Quindlen is a fine writer and a skillful story teller; I learned so much about these family members and those they knew incredibly rapidly.
I look forward to reading every other book she writes.
Husband, wife, children, family, friends and neighbors all play a part in everyday life.
But as Ruby, the eldest and only daughter, and Max and Alex, the twins, grow, life begins to change, as life always does.
Their likes and dislikes change, their friends change, their dreams change.
At this point not all their friends are happy as they are left behind with these changing dynamics.
Ruby has a passive, quirky ex-boyfriend who is not happy being left behind.
It is like opening the diary of a good friend and learning all the good and bad of their life.

Where to start?The writing was rambling and disjointed.
I got to page 80 and then went back to the beginning to try to make sense of what I was reading.
Didn't help.The characters, all of them, were cardboard cutouts with no emotional depth.
And none of them seemed to have their own voice.
Often after reading a sentence I'd have to stop and think...Wait...Which one are you again?And the story line?
It moves oh sooooo slowly towards the climax of the book, and oh sooooo slowly to the finish.
Average.
Ordinary."And that's what this story was...average and ordinary.
I've read three of this author's books before, and absolutely loved all of them, but this was a long time ago.
Her writing still has the ability to hook me on the first sentence, even when she is only describing an average mom's life with her husband and three teenagers.
This is the story of how this average life was changed in one moment by a shocking event, and leaves you asking yourself a lot of questions about parenting, and how well we really know our children.
But overall a read I would recommend to anyone who likes books about families and the things that can change them.
I remember thinking her writing cut right to the chase, reaching the reader (or at least me).
I know she's written several books since then, and I may have read one.
This was such a searing, intense subject matter to write about.
I have read some of the reviews, and I see that some people were greatly moved by this book.
(view spoiler)[Her reaction to the boy (and his family) that slaughtered most of her family and tried to kill her was a little too benign as far as what I would imagine a mother and wife's reaction to be.
Mary Beth Latham is a suburban housewife, with an ophthalmologist husband and three kids - the beautiful poetess who used to be anorexic Ruby and the twins golden boy Alex and moody but genius Max. Ruby has a boyfriend who intensely loves her, called Kiernan.
I can't take care of Kiernan just now, can you do it for a couple of days.Mary Beth (with a patient voice): Oh honey, you know that's not such a good idea!
He says he wants to stay with you guys...Mary Beth (still with the patient voice): You know that's not such a good idea...If I were Deborah, Mary Beth would get a fist in her face, but she gets lucky as always.
Every Last One is about Mary Beth and Glen Lathan and their children.
Mary Beth Lathan thought she was living a normal life with her husband Glen and their three children Ruby, Alex and Max. However, this was not the case.
The readers of Every Last One will continue to follow to see what happens to Mary Beth Lathan and her family.Every Last One is the first book I have read by Anna Quindlen.
I also like Anna Quindlen writing style.Readers of Every Last One will learn about undiagnosed mental illness and the consequences for everyone.
I use this phrase sparingly, as the story has to be one that completely ensconces me into its plot line and characters.
Quindlen has an amazing talent for developing characters in which the reader becomes emotionally invested.
I don't want to sound trite, but the characters really do come alive for the reader.
Quindlen also has quite the knack for writing about an important issue that exposes it but doesn't preach or judge, a natural unfolding of tragedy, its before and after, with its impact on all revealed.
Her ability to take the reader to the heart of a tragedy and all its despair is writing genius.
Mary Beth Latham lived at home with her husband Glen, eldest child Ruby and twins Max and Alex, and while life was “normal” the fact that three teenagers lived under their roof proved on a day by day basis that things were far from “normal”.
But when Max had to return home early from summer camp because of an accident, things went downhill.As time moved forward, it was Halloween where Mary Beth and Glen had a huge party – everyone came; friends, family, the kids’ friends – the usual fun and boisterous rowdiness was invading the house.
I became curious about her after reading her high praise of Alice Sebold's The Lovely Bones (another book I didn't particularly enjoy).
It's sort of funny because I felt these two books were quite similar in tone and even (partly) in subject matter.
I also couldn't quite relate to the mother, nor to her initial reactions.I do wonder if someone who is grieving, or who has gone through what feels like an unspeakable or incomprehensible tragedy, might (?) find some solace with the book's final message.
Still, I would have preferred this message be told with a bit more subtlety.
This is a heartbreaking gut wrenching tale of what happens when you're the survivor of a horrific tragic event. Mary Beth, mother of 3 is living life as a normal wife and mother when her whole world is turned upside down. Can she cope? This novel is beautifully written and brought tears to my eyes.
Beautifully written. Not much happens in the first half, yet I was engaged from the start because Quindlen made me want to know her characters. She drew them so realistically, they felt like my neighbors which makes what happens to all of them that much more devastating. You often wonder how someone can go on living after a tragedy. Quindlen has taken on the challenge of exploring exactly that, with compassion, heart and skill.
Mary Beth Latham and her family (husband, Glen; daughter, Ruby; twin sons, Alex and Max) go through the daily routine so familiar to anyone who has had kids in middle school and high school and who remembers (fondly or not) the soccer games and practices, the having to be at opposite ends of the town at the exact same time, the crises of young love, etc.
And so, the first half of Every Last One lulled me into this family's life, enjoying the conversations between Mary Beth and Glen as they handled the ups and downs.
This was one of the books I got, picked without even reading the back cover, simply because I've liked much of Quindlen's works.
But I, too, have a survivor in my life, and she faces life with such courage and humor, that I owe it to her not to be stuck in the past.
The story was compelling; even knowing something bad was coming, I wanted to read more, not in the sense of seeing a horror movie, or staring at an accident at the side of the road, but because Quindlen drew me in.
Alex excels in sports and is very outgoing, and Max is quiet and obviously depressed.
As you read or listen to the audio book (I did both), you know early on that something bad is going to happen in this novel, but it was not what I expected, and more likely than not other readers will have guessed wrong as well.
I just never really felt any emotion reading this book, probably because I did not care for Mary Beth, the protagonist.
The reader, Hope Davis, has this monotone affect; it was the same depressing tone, both before the horrible event and after.
Sorry readers I CANNOT recommend this book.
She used the term 'abstracted' until page 190 and then substituted it for 'distracted' for the rest of the book.
Can a character be 'agnostic' about the word 'shrink'?
As it is, the narrative rambles all over the place, bits of the story wandering away into memories and rarely, if ever, making it back to the main point.The characters are bland and unlikeable.
The main character has no face.
Ha, the only character who has any life to her, Rachel's mother, is depicted as a tart and judged accordingly.Bleah, the more I write about this the more I dislike this book.
I got this from the library and have really tried to get into it but just found it really dull and boring.
By 45% nothing was really happening and the characters and plot fell flat for me (what plot?).
I know a big tragedy happens halfway through this and perhaps it gets better but it was so incredibly slow I lost interest even knowing what it was sadly.
I tried and persisted and skimmed some pages but eventually gave up on this one.
Taking it back to the library and glad I didn't buy this.
Too many great books out there to waste time on dull ones.
This book was extremely disturbing and sad (not in a Stephen King sort of a way). I actually had to take a break from it for a couple of days because of what happens in the middle of the book. It's not for everyone so be forewarned. I will not give anything away but it deals with love and loss. It's brutal.
Alongside this examination is the struggle of those that survive to emerge from the horror, find succour in their cherished memories, move on from their regrets and once again find meaning in their lives and a desire to go on.Anna Quindlen is an author I have been keen to read and I was not disappointed, with her prose and descriptive insights as eloquent as it comes and her characters all well-developed.
Despite feeling the second half of the novel was a little drawn-out, Quindlen never falls back on schmaltzy sentimentality as she looks for reasons to survive the heartbreak.
In the end I think that Deborah's character offered a sketch of what MB could have become, but ultimately chose not to.One of my favorite quotes in the book is on pages 213 and 214 when Ruby is telling Mary Beth about the butterfly affect and she says: "That's kind of terrifying," I replied.
I just loved that the reader so obviously understands, but that Mary Beth was so wrapped up in her grief that the irony is completely lost of her.And my favorite thing of all was how the book ended:"This is my life.
I'm especially pained to admit that I stopped reading Anna Quindlen's latest novel Every Last One. And yet here I am, telling you exactly that.
He eventually goes to see a therapist who comes highly recommended.The Lathams are a family like many; unique in some ways and boring in their sameness in others.
However, narrator Mary Beth's musings about problems with neighbors, the death of another family's child, and her own guilt at employing Hispanic workers for low wages did not in any way warn me of what was to come in Every Last One.I won't spoil the novel for those who will go on to read it.
The family is neither extraordinarily happy nor extraordinarily dysfunctional, simply normal to the point of boring.Suddenly, about halfway through the book, a shocking tragedy hits.
The tragedy leads to some dramatic revelations and pieces of the puzzle, also gently hinted at earlier, start falling into place.I appreciated the book's realism in this sense.
Although the build-up to the pivotal event was arguably too slow, the apparent normalcy before the tragedy seemed far more lifelike than the heavy foreshadowing of more mediocre novels.
I spent much of the first half waiting for the story to start, and much of the second half simply watching the characters pick up the pieces.
