https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662.Atlas_Shrugged
The “bad guys” are, of course, represented by the socialists—the ones passing the legislation, although Rand does a good job of throwing anyone else into this category who, while not active participants in passing these laws, may not be totally opposed to them, either.The problem with all of this is the fact that her characters are not at all believable.
They are robots who mechanically spew forth her inane drivel or, if they are of the other flavor, behave in a manner so utterly ridiculous as to demonstrate the rationality of the capitalist over the vicious, gun-toting socialist who’s come to rob your house, rape your Ma, and shoot your Pa. Rand is so egregious in the maltreatment of her antithetic characters that it’s almost laughable.
This book really makes you take a good hard look at yourself and your behavior, which is why I think a lot of people don't like this book.
Use your mind instead of expecting to get the rewards of others who do all the thinking.
If every author wrote in the same style, people would complain.
But the people in Ayn's story didn't work for money.
There were teachers and stay at home moms in her little world in the mountains.Ayn has extremely valuable points and if you are someone who is constantly looking for something to criticize in every book, then don't read it.
For all the lip-service Rand pays to individualism, she brooks no dissent from her heroes; none of her so-called individualists ever expresses a point of view significantly different from hers.To illustrate the gulf between Rand's characters and human reality, consider this behavior.
When Dagny Taggart meets Hank Rearden, she dutifully becomes his property, for no other reason than that he's the most Randian male around.
(Not to debate it, since no one in Randland with any any intelligence or competence could have a different point of view.) About Rand's philosophy I'll just make two points (which I'm not going to bother providing evidence for at the moment).The first is that, like most social Darwinists, Rand fell short in her understanding of natural selection.
The best way to understand Rand's message in this book is to simply close it, and beat yourself over the head with it as hard as possible.
Ayn Rand writes as if the elements of fiction get in the way of her message, and that reader's skull's are extraordinarily thick and require a firm beating over the head to absorb the theme.
It's just as overdone, but weighing it at ounces rather than pounds, it'll leave a smaller dent in your head.Oh, and if you're only reading it to answer the question on geeky bumper sticker "Who is John Galt?" He's the hero and a symbol of the capitalism in it's conflict over what Rand saw as the oppressive and ultimately destructive forces of large government type societies (you, know.
Ultimately it's easy to see in novels like this one why Rand is so perfect for late teenagers, but why she elicits eye rolls by one's mid-twenties; because Objectivism is all about BEING RIGHT, and DROPPING OUT IF OTHERS CAN'T UNDERSTAND THAT, and LET 'EM ALL GO TO HELL AS FAR AS I'M CONCERNED, without ever taking into account the unending amount of compromise and cooperation and sometimes sheer altruism that actually makes the world work.
As Ayn Rand's immortal opus, Atlas Shrugged, stands as a tome to a philosophy that is relevant today as it was in her time.
In the book, each of the major protagonists also represent Creators improving the human condition with their force of will.The Leeches (my word) are the people who create nothing, but thrive off feeding on the Creators.
Throughout human history she tells us, these people have benefited through no ingenuity of their own, but merely from piggybacking on - and often fettering - the success of the Creators.Where the conflict in this book arises is when the Creators decide they have had enough and revolt.
This book, as much as I detest it, is actually rather useful. Those who have read it tend to be those whom I most especially desire to avoid. Because those who have read it are invariably proud of the fact--ostentatiously so--it is even easier for me to keep my life free and clear of delusional egomaniacs. Thank you Ayn Rand.

I get that Rand is kind of loony tunes of the Glenn Beck variety, and some people (maybe?) use her to justify being assholes, but I just don’t like to throw the bathwater out with that baby.
It’s kind of fun that way because any end that you, the reader, come up with will be better than the one Rand suggested.
People complain about Rand’s writing, and I always think, “When was the last time you wrote a 1000 page book in a second language and pulled off a reasonably page-turning storyline?” The woman spoke Russian for crying out loud!
UPDATE 8/25! This blog debunks some of the Aynholes' major misunderstandings about the book.Pretentious poseur writes pseudophilosophical apologia for being a sociopath. Distasteful in the extreme.
They set up a utopia (Ayn Rand of all people should know utopia is a word for 'fake') society where competing is so cool and they say stuff like 'man, I hope someone competes with me and nearly puts me out of business', which isn't all that different from what was going on in the society they bitched out on in the most comically shameful manner possible.
There are some great 'fight the man' moments but they are buried under a god-awful plot that puts the plot and politics before the writing and told through characters that are so two-dimensional that I can't even believe the scenes that have them walking down a street.
COMING….NEXT…. SUMMER….EXCLUSIVELY TO GOODREADS…… A review so ambitious, so controversial, so staggeringly over-hyped unique that it has to be seen in order to be read. A review many minutes in the writing (and several hours in the photo finding). A review so important that one Dr. Hyperbole had this to say upon seeing it.... This is the review most people didn’t even know they wanted to read. A review of one of the most talked about and polarizing classics of the 20th century…ATLAS SHRUGGED b
Whether or not you believe her vision is skewed or biased, there is still much that her book can add to the debate on the proper role of government in the life of the individual.”---Gabe Kotter, School teacher, James Buchanan High School, Brooklyn, NY“In my opinion, the MOST IMPORTANT lesson that can be taken from Atlas Shrugged is the concept that Rich, successful people are not evil simply because they are wealthy and are certainly not the enemy of the poor or the disadvantaged.
But on the plus side, the book is a page-turner; it does a great job of helping people brought up in a left-wing tradition to understand the right as not just deluded or evil (my friend Gen said she had the same experience after reading it); and it is good at voicing the frustration that competent and honest people feel when they are surrounded by incompetent and dishonest ones.
A rather larger group of reviewers can't stand Ayn Rand, and point out various obvious flaws: lack of feeling for English prose style, lack of character development, lack of realistic dialogue, interminable sermons on Objectivism, and sundry other charges.
She also said that I reminded her of the characters....a statement to this day I take pride in....And that is exactly what I learned from this book: that pride is most beautiful thing, and to live on this earth means that one must understand its reality, and learn to use one's mind to make it what one wants it to be.
It is about truly loving life and all that it means to 'live' it.
It is the reason why I understand myself as a man who belongs on earth....It is very long (almost 1200 pages), so get ready for an epic.
She has no concept that other governments have not tolerated the oppression that she found there.The third (false) premise is that the rest of the people of the U.S. are mostly a bunch of lazy morons who blindly accept the statements of the evil government and their patsy press.
These magic things were, of course, invented by the intelligent elite who use them to help wreak havoc and despair on the rest of the 200 million people of the country in order to punish the evil government.Then there’s the (obligatory) sex.
(Ironically, I read The Grapes of Wrath also at the same time.) My teenage mind was captivated by the "dangerous" ideas proposed by Ayn Rand.
At that time, India was having an inefficient "mixed" economy comprising all the negative aspects of capitalism and socialism, and Ms. Rand seemed to point a way out of the quagmire.Almost thirty years hence, I find the novel (if it can be called that - Ayn Rand's idea of fiction is a bunch of pasteboard characters put there as her mouthpieces) to be silly beyond imagination.
...all because they have fallen victim to the political philosophy of Objectivism and have not discovered the pleasures of unprotected tantric sex.SpoilerIf you want to know who the female protagonist has deep and meaningless sex with, read the book or open the following spoiler at your own peril (to avoid disappointment, don't view the spoiler.
Now.):(view spoiler)[Shouldn't it be "If you want to know with whom the female protagonist has deep and meaningless sex"?
Meanwhile, something is happening that is shaking the very foundation of society.After reading The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand in 2005-2006, my life has been changed for the better.
While I read Rand's books for her ideas and to better understand the application of her philosophy, they can also be read on many different levels.
However, one does not have to delve deep into Rand's philosophical background to enjoy The Fountainhead or Atlas Shrugged -- they are also great stories about human endurance, individualism, freedom, relationships, and integrity.If you are reading this book to gain an understanding of Rand's philosophy, Objectivism, then I would recommend reading this book AFTER reading Ayn Rand's other famous fiction, The Fountainhead.
This book was the most overrated piece of crap of the twentieth century.
I wonder if Rand imagined some of these great barons of industry coming to her rescue when she immigrated away from the vile pit of communism that she left behind.
Specifically this book is completely overwritten and serves as flak cover for all the wrong people.
The Jack Welch's and Phil Knights that imagine themselves to be the heroes of this book.This book has done more to create a generation of self interested greedy mindless zombies than any other book I can think of.
If you're into sprawling, barely coherent I-are-mighty anti-Communist rants then this is for you. I suppose in our moments of weakness, we can look to Ayn Rand's philosophy to bring out our inner-super-humans. Except that really it's just a polarized response to Marx and Lenin (whom I have found equally unpalatable).What's that? You want me to separate the aesthetic elements from the philosophy? Sure thing. This book reads like an instruction manual for drawing right angles.----See also:• http://www.accreditedonlinecolleges.c...• http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/a...
Rich people don't need government services.
It's poor people that need the government to build these things for them.
It's RICH PEOPLE that create jobs.
No, if they are in the top 5% of income earners, we should PAY THEM to stay in our country.
And clearly this has to be done as often as the Rich People want to change their country of residence.
(--booooooo!--) Countries should COMPETE to attract rich people to their shores.
No, for them, we'll offer money AND a line of poor people AND control of the government.
Governments are for those rotten horrible poor people.
In the story, she illustrates what would happen to the world if incentive to produce is removed from the intelligent and able - the motor of the world would stop.I love how Rand's character Dagny Taggart is such an example of intelligence and ability.
Rand believes that one's professional work, what he is able to produce, is THE purpose of life, definitely a "live to work" approach.
Be forewarned that it's there, and she has a strong theory on sexuality that you'll be exposed to in reading the book.Reading Atlas Shrugged reminded and empowered me to work hard for what I want in life, to stop making excuses, and to hold myself accountable and responsible for what I do or don't acoomplish.
I guess I can't hate this book.
After reading The Fountainhead, I found myself crushing on Objectivism and Rand's brand of rugged self-reliance.
This book cured me forever of this flat, willingly shortsighted b*llshit religion.I've had my run-ins with the devout and the dogmatic fans of Rand and the big O and their reluctance to even nod towards the notion that saying A is A and that Objective Reality is Real is so much wasted air surprises me.
It's turtles the whole way down, that's what I always say.The characters are awful, beyond cartoonish and they do nothing but mouth Rand's words.
Any motive but self-interest is evil.
I hate to accuse anyone directly, but I think he may even be from my own state.
When I read a book I usually try to seperate the writers personal views and opinions from the novel and read it for what it is, a work of fiction.
That's hard to do with Ayn Rand, especially this book, because she hammers you with them in every paragraph.
I didn't like the agenda put forth in this book, but I gave it 4 stars because when it comes to putting pen to paper, Ayn Rand could write.
The message of the book seems to be that any character who doesn't completely agree with her point of view doesn't deserve to be alive.
Except a handful of Ayn Rand-ish characters, no one is worth a damn.
Can't she spew out her fundae in a subtle manner or does she believe that we readers being normal people(i.e; different from her idea of a perfect individual) are too dumb to understand her message in any other way.Guest column by The Sexual Intellectual, Quink MagazineAyn Rand, that "objectivist" proponent of selfishness...In the idiotic Ayn Rand's pugnacious and polemical novel Atlas Shrugged, a book "nearly perfect in its immorality", according to Gore Vidal, the verb to give is forbidden.
This happens on a small scale, however, and to a limited degree, contained within the company and affecting only a fraction of the staff.Yet Ayn Rand takes this small universal phenomenon and applies it to the entire world, and not just to a limited degree but taken further so that the U.S. is practically demolished--all travel, communication, order, and power grids destroyed, supposedly by incompetence--before the competent folk come back to rebuild, which is ridiculous because it ignores so much involved in the lifeblood of a country, its culture, its economy, and its legal processes.
Atlas Shrugged is a flawed epic, strident with a swaggering ambition, yet almost fable-like in its overly simplistic social and economic criticisms.
The characterization is where it fails; Rand draws stick figures for antagonists: caricatures, strawmen to act as foil to her politico-economic-social vehicle.
I have read many controversial books, and have wondered how many critics have actually read the work; Atlas Shrugged makes me wonder how many fans have actually read it.
Rand’s libertarianism shares with Sinclair’s socialism in that it looks good in print.
people LOVE this...but i just...
i realize that, in disliking cucumbers, i am siding with a very scant and unpopular team, but i have my reasons: i chewed on them while i was teething, so it's an association thing.
i realize they have merit and i love all other veggies, it's just they're not for me.
but it seems more people like this book than even cucumbers, which we know is saying a lot.
which would be fine except people really claim to glean something from it.
i'd rather eat a cucumber for every worthless page than have to suffer through it again.
Nothing about it sounds the least bit appealing or reasoned.Watching interviews of Rand, herself, I wonder if she wasn't somewhere on the autism spectrum--her entire Objectivist philosophy seems like the sort of approach autistic people have to develop to deal with a world full of emotions, sympathies, and signals they cannot recognize or comprehend.
It's unfortunate that Rand's method focuses on brutalizing, blaming, and denying people who are unlike her, instead of working with them and trying to understand them--recognizing and cherishing those differences, the fact that a society requires many different types of people to run effectively.But then, looking at her life, and her inner circle--the isolation, disappointment, depression, and awkward love affairs as depicted in something like Adam Curtis' Documentary 
The notes flowed up, they spoke of rising and they were the rising itself, they were the essence and the form of upward motion, they seemed to embody every human act and thought that had ascent as its motive.
Only a faint echo within the sounds spoke of that from which the music had escaped, but spoke in laughing astonishment at the discovery that there was no ugliness or pain, and there never had to be.
Her life and her values could not bring her to that, she thought; she had never found beauty in longing for the impossible and had never found the possible to be beyond her reach.
