https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3657138-fade
I feel that the stage I am at seems to need some kind of conclusion and I desperately want to read more but, on the other hand, I refuse to ruin a story that has so far held me captivated by its depth of emotion and well-built mysteries with an ending that is mediocre.And I have read enough reviews by trusted goodreads friends to know this ending will not be the one I wanted.
I'd also like to point out that I nearly gave up on the series in Wake because the 3rd person present tense reads like stage directions and it was driving me crazy, but trust me and stick with it - it's more than worth it in the end.
Janie is still learning to control/change/deal with the dreams she enters but it got deeper in this second installment.
She doesnt only go into their dreams but we get to know the people outside of their dreams.
Janie is less of a scared little girl and more brave and outgoing.
I dont like it, well i do but i dont because its rude when she is in a dream and we dont know its a dream we think this is really happening, why the heck is this happening then she says it must be a dream and im like well damn dont give me a heart attack.It could have been a duology because it ended so perfectly.
I have been waiting to read Fade since I sped through the last few pages of Wake, and I was not disappointed.
Fade divulges more about Janie’s ability which was fascinating and unimaginable at the same time.
I usually don’t comment on the content within a novel, but I know there were a few comments on my review of Wake that said they had a problem with the language.
So yes, there are cuss words in this book, and if that is going to bother you, keep in mind this novel is about catching a sexual predator.
Just like Wake, ( the first book in the trilogy ) Fade did not disappoint!
I loved the route Janie and Cable’s relationship took.
I love Janie as a character and I feel like Cable is a great supporting character as well.
I’m anxious to see how “Gone” wraps up this trilogy!
I gave it 3 stars because at times the story took a slower pace and at other times it feels like I was crammed with information so thick it was hard to dissolve it all.
Lisa McMann is a great author, but I feel her pacing can sometimes be a bit off.
Second reading of "Fade" confirmed that this second book is the best in the series.
Not only does it develop marvelously the relationship between Janie and Cabel (which was a central theme of "Wake"), but it also brings in an excellent mystery story line.
The case Cabe and Janie work on in this book is dark and disturbing and the final party scene is remarkable in its intensity and realness.
Now, having read "Gone," the final book in the trilogy, I strongly recommend to stop reading the series after "Fade." "Gone" just doesn't deliver a highly climatic conclusion to Jamie and Cabel's story we all expect to get after finishing "Fade."
http://www.writingis.fun/%D1%83%D0%B3...Като цяло започнаха да се случват по-интересни неща в поредицата. Джейни все още няма контрол върху силите си и научава лошите странични ефекти от дарбата си. Да видим, какво ще стане в последната част :)
Objection at first by Cabel, but Janie gives the final decision and both are on the case.
Hardly given any information about her ability, Captain gives Janie a box full of papers written by Martha Stubin that not only contains her secrets and past, but the positive and negative effects of helping others with their dreams.
Along with Janie, readers will be able to delve deeper into the enormity of Janie's ability and the strain that it causes not only on her but also on Cabel.
"Fade" continues the story begun in "Wake" and if you try reading this one first, you're likely to be a little confused.In "Wake," we met Janie, a girl with the ability to be a dream-catcher.
"Wake" was about Janie coming to terms with her new power.
"Fade" is concerned with Janie learning the responsible use of her power and the consequences of being a dream-catcher.
Janie's work, and the toll is takes on her new-found relationship with fellow undercover informant Caleb, drive much of the narrative of the story.
In the last book, they work together to bust a drug dealer, but in this novel, Captain wants their help in busting a sexual predator in their school.
I was glad they finally did The Deed because, both in Wake and Fade, there was allll kinds of pent up sexual tension that needed to be taken care of and let out.Again, I lovelovelove this book and eagerly await the time when I get my hands on Gone, the third book in the trilogy, even though I'll be very sad to see the trilogy end.
Fade reads like all second parts do in this kind of books—you already have the events and players set up in part one, now it's time to get down to business.The case they're working on is far more interesting and involved that the one in Wake.
Also, the strain it puts on Janie and Cabel's relationship seems less contrived than in Wake—there's actual danger this time—and seeing them work through those issues without much of the usual angst—there is some but this is YA after all—or stooping to the use of clichés such as the overused loveless love triangle was refreshing.One of the things that I liked most about the story was the way Janie handled herself regarding the case.
But only because it actually had some semblance of a plot and the writing was a bit tighter.
If only the plot wasn’t so fucking ridiculous and outlandish.
(view spoiler)[Police work is left up to a teenage couple that operate solely on hunches and instinct.
Every male teacher is a fucking rapist.
(hide spoiler)].And there was no suspense.
McMann really needs to learn how to employ a red-herring every now and again.
It got to the point where I thought the actual bad guy was the red-herring just because it was so boringly and straight-forwardly him.
This book actually had a cohesive story line (though it still had a lot of plot holes) I still don’t like the relationship like it happened so fast and it doesn’t seem real.
They do not represent a healthy or normal relationship.
Still confused on what dream walking actually entails, though I will admit we learned more about it in novel Overall I’m not a fan of this series and I don’t think I like McMann’s writing style.
I think that this series is the last of McMann’s books I will read.
Janie starts to notice things between people at the school and when she stumbles upon a dream, everything links together and a lead has formed.If you do not remember the writing style, let me remind you.
Also, the books are short, so it makes a quick read anyways.I was hoping to get more action and information on the dreams that Janie experiences and I am glad that it delivered.
I’m glad that this book exceeded my expectations and I only hope that the last book in the series will be a grand finale at the rate this is going.
His battle with Janie's actions, her desires and her hopes and dreams tug at my heart string with every moment we spend with them together.
I was left teary eyed, even bawling at times, over their battle between want and need.
Cable's internal battle was especially hard to read, but nonetheless I was rooting him on, hoping for a happy ending.Janie, oh Janie.
I admire her.What I do have to say about the writing-- even though some outcomes and actions pan out in a predictable manner I am still completely engrossed in Janie's experience of it and her emotional attachment to the people, places, and events that I overlook the fact that I know what happens next.
I want to know how it ends.
If there's a third wheel to this relationship, it's the couple's employer, Police Captain Fran Komisky, who serves on occasion as surrogate parental figure and relationship counselor, providing all the well intentioned tough-love you can stand.The plot itself is fairly uncomplicated but, as with many police novels, only half the enjoyment comes from solving a crime; most readers stick with a series to follow the progress (or decline) of the central characters, and again this is where McMann's novel excels.
The life and crimes of Fieldridge High are entertaining, but McMann has created a cast that could easily swim in larger seas, and, while they're out there, go up against some better sharks.
Great and fast read!
This is getting progressively worse. I think I will pass on volume 3.
A lot of my criticisms of the book Wake, remain for its sequel.  You can read my Wake review here. This is more of a 3.5 than a 4 star.Beware Spoilers! The Writing Style Again, the narrative is in a choppy, odd, staccato prose that the reader will either enjoy or despise. I personally think it works for this series of books, but there were a few times I arched an eyebrow.  Odd random facts are delivered, such as what brand someone is wearing, for no obvious reason.  Since the writing-style doesn
A lot of my criticisms of the book Wake, remain for its sequel.
Like the previous book, the plot is really simplistic and nothing real original.
The part of the story I enjoyed the most was Janie discovering more about her powers and the ill-effects of her ability to enter other people's dreams.
The relationship between Janie and Caleb was very realistic, if not annoying at times.
They both make huge mistakes, but it felt very real.Janie definitely matures in this book while Caleb suffers a setback.
A lot of the discoveries in the story take place at the very end leaving a lot of time where not a lot really happens.
Janie is the adult in house - making sure there are groceries in the house and taking care of the other day to day household chores.The one bright spot in her life is Cabel.
Her relationship with Cabel becomes strained, she finds herself in dangerous situations, and her body begins to suffer the effects of her dream catching.
Lisa McMann keeps you guessing from beginning to end and learning more about the process of dream catching adds a lot to the story.The third book in the series is titled GONE and it is sure to be a winner based on WAKE and FADE.
That really made the book for me.*Cable is just a doll and if it were up to me he'd be played by Reid Ewing http://www.imdb.com/name/nm2938641/*I liked the storyline of this book*The green notebook explained everything I wanted to know*And I'm actually pretty curious about the next bookThe Bad:There was lip gloss*There were geek glasses*Too much cussing*Belly condom wrappers*I had trouble paying attention at parts*It was like Nancy Drew but with bean bag sexThe Wiggity Wack:I keep being reminded of Nightmare on Elm Street.Think about it....Freddy Kruegar was a sexual predator with a knife fingered glove, who got burned in the boiler room, had a ton of bumpy ugly scars all over him, and went into dreams.Dark Fallen and I have a theory.
Tam kıvamında bir kitaptı, yine değişik bir kurgu normal yaşantının zorluklarıyla harmanlanmış, bu da kitabı değerli yapan :))) Özellikle ilk kitaba göre rüya yakalayıcılığıyla ilgili daha fazla şey öğreniyoruz ve ne yalan söyleyeyim Janie'nin bundan sonra ne yapacağını çok merak ediyorum. Yazık kıza :/ Neyse umarım 3.kitabı çabuk okuruz :))
Wake has an interesting premise, but it seems like all the dreams Janie falls into are sex dreams or nightmares that are memories.
I felt it took a long time (after 100 pages in a 224 page book!) to really get the story going.
Again, I found the mystery too easy and kind of silly and the whole side job thing that Janie and Cabel have going is just really corny to me.
I like the relationship between Janie and Cabel and thought it was much better than the first one.
This was my review of Wake (to which Fade is a sequel):"In some ways, this book reads like it was wr
Kitabı sevdim ilkide güzeldi zaten.değişikti,farklıydı,tuhaftı. Diğerlerinden ayransa uslubuydu, öyle tuvalete gittim bilmemne,yok "defterimi çıkarttm yanına kalemimide koydum ardndanda silgimi yanına koydum sonra kalem yuvarlandı düştü" yada "ah lanet olsun telfonumun şarjı bitti" gibisinden gereksiz ayrntlardan arndrlmış gayet sade ve öz dizi veya film izler gibi okuna bilen polisiye ve gizem yönü ağır insanı rahatsız eden vıcıksı bir aşk olmayan kısacık bir kitaptı,ancak yazarn gelişmesi gerektiğini dşnüyorum polisiyede ilerlemeli ama gizemde gayet iyi buldum her şeyden öte gerçekçiydi gerektiği yerde karakterlere zarar verebilecek bir yazar :D 3. Kitabın daha da iyi çıkacağına eminim...
I thoroughly loved this book.In Fade we see the action and suspense pick up a little more as Cabel and Jennie track down a sexual predator.The relationship between these two misfits is one of the sweetest I've ever read. I don't think I'll be able to bring myself to read Gone considering how many are so completely unsatisfied with it, but as it is, Wake and Fade are brilliant.
I may or may not have finished the last 100 pages of this book with a torch light in the middle of the night. That’s a big enough of a clue to tell you how much I enjoyed this book.It blows my mind how Lisa McMann managed to write two amazing books for the same series, while I’m sitting here, staring at both the books figuring out which I liked better.
GOSTEI TANTO DESTE LIVRO! Não sei se o próximo irá conseguir arrancar-me uma pontuação tão alta mas veremos... Gostei muito, teve tudo aquilo que estava à espera. E por mim a série podia acabar por aqui... porém ainda há muita coisa a descobrir sobre a mãe da Janie e o seu pai, sei lá é disso que estou à procura nos livros que ainda não encontrei...
*re-read
Snaží se jí pomáhat, co to jenom jde, ale v okamžiku, kdy se Janie stane plnohodnotným členem speciálního vyšetřovatelského týmu, cítí se bezradný a také se tak projevuje.Janie má totiž za úkol zjistit, co se na její škole děje mezi učiteli a studentkami.
Nejdřív neví, jak na to, protože na podobné věci nikdy nemyslela, ale později se do všeho zamotá víc, než je zdrávo...Na český překlad jsem si po prvním díle už zvykla.
Jsem ráda, že v tomto případě se to nestalo, i když s tím natahováním děje si zatím nejsem tak úplně jistá.
Which is inevitable when I read something this substandard.The problems: What was great about the first book was noticably missing.
I don't have a problem with that, especially when it concerns the paranormal aspects of the book itself.
So you mean to tell me that the local police department puts two teenage kids (both of who have been through emotionally traumatizing experiences recently) undercover to catch date rapists masquerading as teachers?
There was one scene where she is getting ready to go a party to try to finally identify the bad guy (who happens to be supplying students with GHB and then raping them) and the Captain tells her to read up on date rape drugs.
