https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769902.Sandkings
Sandkings is a collection of short stories from George R.R. Martin in the 80s.
I know this is a tough book to get your hands on, but DO IT, it's so worth it if only for this short story.
AMAZING!5 out of 5 Stars  (Debating stealing a certain someone's idea of adding an extra star or two)Here's the Goodreads summary if you're wondering what it's actually about:"When Simon Kress returned to his home planet of Baldur from an offworld business trip, he was amused to find that his tank of Earth piranhas had cannibalized themselves into extinction, and of the two exotic animals that roamed his estate, only one remained.
a collection of multi-colored sandkings.
This collection feels like it’s an emanation from some platonic concept of “story”.
This collection needs to be brought back in print.(lots of the stories are anthologized) Fans of the authors I’ve mentioned should seek this out as well as fans of Iain M.
Banks, as Martin fills his universe with Vancean baroque wonders like Banks and similarly uses it to tell grim, literate, horror filled stories fill with wonder and philosophical depth.
My first by Martin. Just plain awesome.
Am citit-o când a apărut în românește pentru prima dată (yay! mi-s bătrân!) și mi-a plăcut nemaipomenit de mult. Pentru vremea aceea a fost senzațională și o consider încă cea mai reușită scriere a lui George RR Martin (da, nu vă supărați pe mine, cărțile cu care a devenit celebru nu m-au impresionat cu nimic). Recomand Regii Nisipurilor pentru orice pasionat de SF. Lectură obligatorie, de fapt :-)
I read it a long, long time ago in a SF anthology published in another language. I only recalled its name and tried for years to figure out the original English title. Today I hit the jackpot - and what a jackpot it is!!! Just look at the author... This is the most memorable science fiction short story I ever read!
Just re-read this one today for at least the fifth time! This story never fails to impress me with its depth...
I have only read the title story, Sandkings, but I plan to read the whole collection and add some excitement and horror to my life!
If you love George R.R. Martin's "The Song of Ice and Fire" series, if you can't wait for the next one to be released, and want to spend all your time re-reading the series and reading anything that reminds you of it, then "Sandkings"...is probably not for you.
And the only thing each of the stories have in common is Martin's (and my) love for details details details.
The Social Scene on Baldur, Ceremonies of the yaga-la-hai, Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Life On Thisrock (But Were Afraid To Ask).
A fairly horrible tale that you just know is going to end the way it does. Still, it's a quick, interesting read. The Asgard references are a bit much, not really needed. Perhaps they hint at another possibility, but it doesn't really work. (view spoiler)[Are we the result? Did our legends arise from a third step? (hide spoiler)] Anyway, it's pretty good & well worth the time to read. You can find it free here:https://forwearemany.files.wordpress....
Затова когато видях фантастиката „Пясъчните крале” бях, меко казано, заинтригуван и любопитството ми се пробуди.Сборникът съдържа седем кратки новели, които много ми харесаха.
Ако ви допадат книги от типа на „Хиперион”, „Небесните господари”, „Галактически хазартни войни” и прочее представители на жанра, където научният елемент на фантастиката е изместен от задъхано действие, битки, пътешествия, тайнствени цивилизации и колоритни извънземни раси, тази книга е само за вас.
Повествованието стремително градира и накрая завършва буквално като хорър, каращ те да изтръпнеш, сякаш пясъчни крале пъплят по кожата ти…Бързите приятели – готов съм да се обзаложа, че Хиперионът на Дан Симънс е вдъхновил Мартин за този разказ.
This novel made my hair stand on end, so I guess horror would be better suited than sci-fi. It is more than interesting and a real page-turner, but I don't recommend it to those who have phobia of insects, although it is very good.I had no idea that GRRM can write so many genres so well. I'm in awe.
I loved the television adaptation of the story SANDKINGS back in the nineties. It was the premier episode of the new OUTER LIMITS series on SHOWTIME, I think. I had no idea it was written by Martin. Look forward to checking this collection out.
5 stele pentru Regii Nisipurilor.3-4 pentru celelalte.
Beneath the remains of this Sepultura album cover, is a disturbingly dark story about one sick man, with a growing God complex. And he is raising a colony of some species of nope, in his home. Almost felt like a no-sleep twisted version of Programmer theory of God.This Hugo and Nebula winner is an old school horror with an unconventional ending. Nor was it my type of horror, or a good idea for bed time story.
This is a story that has stayed with me over the years and I have suggested it many times over- yes, I loved it that much.
I decided to pull it out again and have found a new affinity for the story all over again.A wealthy collector of rare animals buys insect-like highly intelligent life-forms only to find that his cruel and sadistic pleasures plunge him into the very game of survival that became a way of life for the creatures in his menagerie.
You know what they say about karma.Of all Martin's works I enjoyed this the most.
Com este conto George RR Martin prova que quem escreve bem, fá-lo em qualquer registo e nem importa o tamanho.Não o leiam antes de dormir. É arrepiante e "pesadélico".
What if you could play god to a race of tiny creatures?"Look to your faces"
Седя и си мисля, че докато чакам стария Джордж да си довърши епопеята на живота Песен за огън и лед, все пак не значи да се отказвам напълно от него като творец, и не трябва да свързвам името му само с едни и същи фентъзийни физиономии, вълнуващи стотици хиляди читатели , а и от известно време и зрители ,по целия свят.
Великолепно изпипани истории, изградени очаквано майсторски и по мъжки стегнато, отвеждащи ни до непознати, и все пак някак близки, може би само в сънищата, светове, които си заслужава да запомним и превъртаме хилядократно в умовете си, като безкрайна пътуваща игра между днес и онова далечно утре, което никога няма да видим, или поне не така, както към момента смятаме за единствено възможно.
Inside the store, he discussed his requirements for a new pet with one of the proprietors, Jala Wo. After dismissing her first life form recommendation, she asked him, "Have you ever owned an animal that worshiped you?" This made Kress curious and Wo then proceeded to show him Sandkings - tiny, insect-like intelligent lifeforms with basic psionic abilities that live in sand castles.
Kress dismisses this as basic insect attributes but Wo showed him how the Sandkings worship her as god and how they have etched her face in their sandcastles.
Once the sandkings are established in their home, if one transmits a holographic image of a person for a period of time into their environs, they will begin to worship it – will carve its image on their castles.
The sandkings do carve Kress’ face into their castles, but over time the faces begin to change – no longer kind or benevolent or intelligent, the faces become cruel and evil, and it starts to take a toll on Kress.
Kress goes, but the sandkings by this time are so powerful that they are able to communicate with HIM psionically.
Веднага си признавам, че не съм от най-големите фенове на Джордж Р.
Р. Мартин.
Въпреки, че покрай „Игра на тронове” Мартин е по-популярен от всякога, и легионите от почитатели се множат, мен все още не ме е грабнал до такава степен, че да скачам от вълнение при всяка нова негова книга.
Съвсем не съм експерт в творчеството му, и не съм изял цялата му библиография с кориците, просто защото имам противоречиви впечатления от писането му.
Сборникът с фантастични разкази е издаден от „Бард”, и колкото и парадоксално да звучи, препоръчвам го едновременно на всички, които обичат Джордж Р.
Р. Мартин, и на всички, които не могат да го траят!
The first sci-fi short stories I ever read.
My grandma gave me an early edition copy as a 13 year old, and because of this I'm one of the few who know Martin for his sci-fi more than his fantasy.If my house was burning down, this and the other short story collections by Martin would be the books I would save.The brand of sci-fi that Sankings is a truly unique one.
While this might not be for the die hard sci-fi geeks out there, I feel it adds a fourth dimension to the often cold-hearted franchise, without being heavy reading.The stories such as Sandkings where romance is less featured are more philosophical, but are no less thought provoking.
I could almost worship the man whose imagination and cerebral labyrinths gave birth to such a strange story, so well crafted it seems surreal. It makes me wonder what demons and what power of genius could haunt a mind and result in a work of such epic proportions on a scale of values. Although it's cruel in places, scary and even grotesque, resembling the human nature itself, this story is a genius' work!
This is a very good collection of Martin's short fiction from the late '70's, a time in his career at which I'd argue he was a much better writer at shorter length than he was as a novelist. The stories collected here represent the science fiction, fantasy, and horror genre as well, all excellent examples of the field. The titular story is a classic, Starlady and Bitterblooms are good, and The Way of Cross and Dragon is another of my favorites.
It felt weird at first reading a sci-fi story by GRRM. Upon reading the first 20% of the book, I knew it was going to be a scary read. If you find tiny creatures unsettling, then stop and drop this book. If you can muster enough courage (like I did), then prepare yourself. One thing's for sure -- GRRM truly likes his characters twisted.
This is a very good dark horror short story, about how war can mess things up. It also has gremlins all over it. We all have gremlins, that shouldn't be fed. This is a recurring theme in grrms writing.
I've read this over and over again and every time I find more in the story. One of the best characters of all time.
This book is terrific. gripping from the beginning to the end.
Out of all the novellas/short stories/whatever they are, I've only read Sandkings. I never read anything like this before. Speed reading wasn't an option. I was terrified. Completely terrified.
- El tratamiento del mono: **/*Otro relato sobre personas obesas, este si no capto tanto mi interés, incluso en algunas partes me desespere un poco.- Los hombres aguja: **/*Otro final que me sorprendió un poco, no se adivina nada si no hasta casi el final, casi me dio lastima el destino del protagonista, en si la historia esta amena, pero tampoco me pareció muy interesante, sera que de sobrenatural no tenia nada como pensaba :P.
