https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17199504-the-bone-season
At first, I found the world a little confusing but as I got more into the book it's became clearer. I listened to the audiobook and the narrator was phenomenal! Great at accents!3.65 stars!
I really, really wanted to like this book. It sounds stupid but I actually feel slightly guilty at how disappointed I was with it and I think the main reason is because the author is a British student of the same age as me and, as soon as I learned that, I really wanted her to succeed. I really wanted Shannon to be the next J.K.Rowling, as some are calling her. I really wanted her debut to take me out of this world and leave me desperate to get my hands on the next installment. However, I just
In my opinion, it shows definite potential for Shannon's future as a writer but the story is a regurgitated version of one that has been told countless times.The Bone Season is a story I feel like I've read before in various other fantasy-lite novels - the one that first came to mind being Shadow and Bone.
The Bone Season isn't terrible but I find it very surprising that words like "original" are being thrown around when it feels like this story and these characters are recycled versions straight out of many other paranormal novels.This book, in my opinion, is simply a glorified, overcomplicated retelling of any other light, fluffy fantasy.
It is one thing to create a new world, it is another to immerse the reader so that they feel like they're drowning, holding onto the fucking glossary as a flotation device.
There is little history, little background, little explanation to why things are this way or that, nothing to make us feel like this could be an actual world.
The book didn't give any of the characters personality or character development until the author suddenly remembers, oh, I should probably insert _____ poignant moment in here at _____ appropriate time.Paige Mahoney is our special snowflake of the day.
My advice to anyone who struggles with the beginning is to power through because the ending does not disappoint.) Learning the workings of the underground crime syndicate, remembering the order of clairvoyance and their abilities, understanding what Paige herself can actually do as a dreamwalker, a rare type of clairvoyance, is a lot to take in, and doesn't really get easier as the novel goes on.
Throughout most of the novel, Paige attempts to figure out Warden's secrets and plans, but even at the conclusion, I don't feel like a have a firm grasp on his motives.The plot was slowly paced and may frustrate some readers, but I found it worked well in this situation and helped build the anticipation for the growing rebellion at the ending.
Unless you want to be flipping back to the glossary every 8th word, you will have to grin and bear it and hope it starts making more sense as the book goes on.So, I'm already not liking the book (we're only talking about the first three chapters here) because Paige and her 'kind' are in hiding and hunted mercilessly (a la X-Men) because they have supernatural powers.
(hide spoiler)] This whole line of thinking and plotline repulses me.I hate reading fictional accounts of slavery and human trafficking.
❝Knowledge is dangerous. Once you know something, you can't get rid of it. You have to carry it. Always.❞  Wellllll. This one is a bit tough to rate and review. It was a great book BUT it definitely had its "huh???" moments. Let me start off by saying that this world is DENSE. Holy crap. I cannot put a finger on this worldbuilding. It's like I get it, but I don't. You read it and you're like WHAT IS GOING ON, but it just flows anyways even with a big question mark floating above your head. It'
about the concepts and worldbuilding, I was still able to enjoy the storyline and how things unfolded.The pacing, overall, is pretty slow.
Usually the slow pacing plus confusing worldbuilding would kill the whole thing for me and I'll end up DNFing but the storyline really saved this book.
There were a lot of times when I was like HOLY CRAP THIS IS SO GOOD.I don't really have much to say about the book mostly because I'm still reeling and wondering what the heck I just read, and what EVEN was this worldbuilding.
. I can't even begin to explain the stuff in this book.
Paige gets taken by these people things and is turned into a slave.
She gets the better person thing as her master.
You know, I say that a lot in books.
This must be happening in a lot of books I read.
Anyhoo, these people that are being captured to be slaves have powers.
I forgot what they are called but they are like some nasty skinned person thingamabob!
I'm going to read the other books in the trilogy so I can get more confused and have lots of fun doing it =D
TW : SlaveryIf I had to describe my relationship with The Bone Season in one gif :  The narrative is choppy and bounces constantly between different subjects without transition. The author is young and it shows : the information about the world is shared rather clumsily through infodump and awkward flashbacks when it suits the author to do so. I didn't complain in the beginning, because I was interested in knowing more about the world. When it went on during the whole book, though? TOO MUCH. I c
Only Paige's counts, because come on, she's the heroine, duh.**About the fancy words : I used to think that reading in a language that isn't mine made dealing with slang more difficult.
The awkward way Paige constantly justifies her actions felt as if the author was writing out of a textbook to not piss the reader off : LOOK!
Hence it doesn't flow and for me it's the mark of a bad writing, sorry, especially in the action scenes - There's this huge danger lurking and the characters are so...
It had wanderlust.”This was the Life & Lit book of the month for July, and while I honestly didn't know what to expect and wasn't feeling particularly enthusiastic about starting this series, I was shocked by how much I loved this book!
I won't spoil the ending, but there's a lot more than meets the eye with this big teddy bear.There are also a handful of really delightful side characters, like Julian, Liss, and Michael, all of which I just wanted to squeeze and hug and keep safe forever.✘ WRITING/WORLD BUILDINGThis was my first book by Samantha Shannon, of course, and I was really pleased by the writing in it.
Really like the concept, such a fascinating world and characters. There were some times where a lot of information is given at once, but definitely enjoyed it.
What was that all about?)The absolute worst thing about this book was the introduction of Sheol I at all - pity, since the whole thing's set there - and the absolutely ridiculous Emim/Rephaim/Netherworld storyline.
It felt really silly, too, especially since every time the Netherworld was mentioned all I could think of was Minecraft, and how disjointed the whole thing seemed from the Scion in London (groan, more fucking London.
I don't understand and I don't care to, either.It took me forever to start reading this book - I bought it ages and ages ago and I don't know why.
“Bone used to mean good, or prosperous.
Death.” What an incredible debut fantasy!
The world building was so intricate, it took a while to make sense of everything, and even then new stuff was still being introduced throughout!Paige is a clairvoyant, a member of an elite group of humans who can sense auras, spirits, and the aether.
There is a hierarchy within the clairvoyant society, and Paige is a dreamWalker, one of the highest and most uncommon gifts.
When Paige gets herself into a dodgy situation on a train and 2 guards are killed she is forced to flee.
•I loved how Samantha Shannon proved very easily that she is not scared to kill off her characters, and continued to prove it throughout the book.
Most, because of the fear of being discovered, have put themselves into mafia-like groups in the different districts, where they use their talents not necessarily for bad, but not for good, either.Our main character, Paige, has a very unique gift, and her leader, a mime-lord named Jaxon, knows how very unique her gift is.
I see why a lot of people LOVE this book (because the idea is fascinating), but it really wasn't my thing.
The basic idea is that the Rephaim came from the Netherworld and turned what used to be Oxford into a training ground/prison for clairvoyant humans.
Paige gets assigned to the blood-consort Warden guy who's never, ever, ever taken an interest in a human before.
And maybe Paige gets some agency later, but for now the story kept happening to her and there wasn't much to support.
Curse you Samantha Shannon!!! You go and create this amazingly original book, and then make me wait for the rest?! I'm not going to make it. If you need me to *ahem* check the future books for...something...I'm more than willing. Jus'sayin. Now on to the book review!!All clairvoyance was prohibited, of course, but the kind that made money was a downright sin. They had a special term for it: mime-crime. This story is incredibly original (for me), and really intense! Though I really loved it, t
If you're reading the print version though, you might have an easier time because there are glossaries (one at the start, and one at the end, so there's plenty of definitions, lol, and they are very needed).
Paige herself is one of the rarest voyants who can actually see people's dreamscapes, and that is how she ends up captured and going through an intense adventure.
K. Rowling on her shoulders, but Ms. Shannon is definitely an author I think will become a name in and of herself.
It’s imaginative, it presents a fresh setting and it’s a riveting read.The year is 2059 and Paige Mahoney is living in London (an alternate reality London) and is part of a crime syndicate, composed of clairvoyants (which can be easiest defined as people who can see/influence spirits/ghosts and affect other people on a spiritual level) .
I was interested in all of them and that is a testament of Samantha’s writing ability - to make you care about the characters and their relationships.I found it difficult to pinpoint a certain genre for this book, but that is in no way a bad thing.
Original Read: January 1st - January 8th, 2016Re-read: March 1st - March 19th, 2017 My original rating and thoughts still stand. This book starts out slow and confusing, even after my 2nd time reading this, it's still a bit confusing. But I love the world that Shannon has built in this series and I'm so excited to get to The Song Rising to see what else she has in store for this series.On to book 2....************************Original Review:4.5 Stars **This will probably be long and confusing a
And, most important, two hundred years since the establishment of Sheol 1, and the great tradition of the Bone Season."In Scion London, all clairvoyance is prohibited.
When the corporeal world becomes overpopulated with drifting spirits, they cause deep rifts in the aether (the spirit realm) When Earth broke it's threshold, it became exposed to Netherworld, allowing the Rephaim to come...but also allowing a different, parasitic race called the Emim to enter.
This is offered as an alternative to punishment for clairvoyancy in Scion London.
Paige is chosen by the blood-consort, Arcturus Mesarthim, called Warden.
The novelist throws a torrent of information about the world, the powers of the characters and the history of it at you in a horrible manner.
However, I plodded on because the protagonist killed a couple of guards; this changed her life incredibly, which meant that the novel became marginally interesting.
The protagonist of the novel is called Paige Mahoney, a terrible name I know, she is thrown into a prison after killing the guards, but it is not an ordinary prison.
Indeed, she is flat, predictable and weak.I will read the next book in the series for one reason: to find out what will happen to the Warden.
This was a great book and I really, really enjoyed reading it.
So overall, this was a really enjoyable read but especially towards the end of the novel, many parts felt like they were just a mixture of popular other YA books like Divergent and The Hunger Games which annoyed me a little.
Not because it stopped me from further enjoying the book, but because I had genuinely hoped this would be my first proper 5-star read of 2018.So if it hadn't been for these similarities to other YA books in the end, I would've definitely given this book five stars.

It features characters that are 18+, touches on adult themes, and contains curse words (not much.) As someone who is over the age of 18 I would love to see more books like this, as it offers the best of both worlds – not YA, but not quite adult either.
In all honestly the info-dumping didn't take away from my reading experience, I was still able to enjoy and appreciate the world Shannon had created, because info-dumping aside the world building was very thorough.
if you're a fan of awesome fantasies & glorious world building then this is the book for you!seriously, read this book!
(but mostly Warden ha ha ha)A quick review:Because while it's amazing, this novel is also *detailed* and has a lot of world building.
This separation has caused Clairvoyants to be outcasts, so in order to survive Paige Mahoney works for Jaxon Hall, a criminal Mime Lord and leader of the Seven Dials.
Taken to live in Sheol 1 where Clairvoyants are under the control of Rephaim (a new race that has come to Earth), Paige must find a way back to her life and the Seven Dials.
I absolutely loved the world-building.
I've no idea how the rest of the series is going to play out.
Part of me is excited that it'll be a seven-book series, because I've no idea what to expect or what we're are in for and that alone is enough to make me giddy, but I'm also afraid that there might be lulls in the middle.
Either way, this was a fantastic debut (at such as young age as well!!!) and is definitely a series I'm going to stick to.
It's just the same old ideas stuffed in a lackluster plot and contrived slang (which makes no sense by the way, I'll elaborate below)-1 Star: info-dumping.
I don't want to flip back and forth to the Glossary to understand what a certain word means while the author can totally use normal phrasing instead.
It bothers me when the author makes up words for no reason.-1.5 Star: the next JK Rowling?
I do give new authors a chance but not to anyone who waste my time with a 500 pages book claiming to be the next JK Rowling.
At the same time, I now have to torturously wait for the following installments.Paige Maloney is a dreamwalker, a type of clairvoyant that can invade the aether without any help from numen, and she is discovering her talent allows her to attack other's dreamscapes.
But trust me, once you start to understand, you quickly are sucked into the world and won't stop reading until the book is over.Essentially, Paige finds herself pulled into a mysteriously world that has been allegedly eradicated, the old city of Oxford, in England.
But just trust me on this).From there Paige is sort of struggling between her loyalty to her old mime-lord, Jaxon, and her new master, The Warden.
Characters: I love Paige.
I enjoyed it too, not a huge 5 star kind of enjoy but enough that even though I’m giving it a 2.5 stars I am going to read the next book.Now any other series starting with a 2 star I might not continue with but there is a ton of potential and this is her first book I expect her to really improve along the way.
There was a lot of information on the world, classifications of all the clairvoyants, factions and history.
The story didn’t start to really pick up for me until Paige started some training and then I started to like it a lot more.
If that doesn't show how much I enjoyed it...Being book one of a fantasy series (with lots of hard to pronounce names) it took me a little while to feel like I understood what was really happening.
I quickly loved it and can't wait to see where the series goes from here!(view spoiler)[For some reason Nashira gave me Amarantha vibes (From A Court of Thorns and Roses I hate both characters so it works haha Now that I think about it I'm seeing some similarities with Rysand and Arcturus as well...
(hide spoiler)]
I found it refreshing there was a mix mash of creatures from a mix of paranormal genres, even throwing in angels, vampires and even some mythological references.
It might have been a complicated and disorganized world, but I enjoyed it all at the same time.This world is so unique and so very vast.
Vast complex but wonderfully woven world filled with spirits, creatures with vampire-like tendencies, angels, and mere mortals, this future put me on a mind bending journey all set in a future dystopian society.
But at the same time, it's refreshing because I enjoyed it all.
U stvari, jasno je meni zašto se to radi, ali kao čitalac ne mogu da ostanem ravnodušna na pravu epidemiju skribomana, koji ne znaju kada je dosta.
Kada je reč o domaćem izdanju, tačnije o prevodu na srpski jezik, moram da skrenem pažnju na jedan detalj koji je mene sve vreme žuljao.
Naime, na poleđini korice piše „Pejdž je dodeljena refaitu Vardenu koji će biti zadužen za njenu obuku.“ Dotični refait (besmrtni stanovnik Nedođije – ali ne one Nedođije u kojoj živi Petar Pan  ) SE NE ZOVE VARDEN!
Generalno kada je reč o prevodu, mislim da je to moglo mnogo bolje da se uradi.
“Do you trust me now?”“Should I?”“I cannot tell you that. That is trust, Paige. Not knowing whether you should trust at all.”“Then I trust you.” Enjoyed this book thoroughly! Loved the world building :D Towards the end, Im fawning (and low-key going gaga) over this precious relationship between Paige and Arcturus ;)Onwards to The Mime Order! #excited
