https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103035.Cabal
I only needed to read the first couple of paragraphs of Cabal to be reminded why I have fallen for Barker's works - his writing is simply incredible.
With Cabal, I was hooked from the very beginning, although there was a bit of a lull in the middle, but thankfully it picked up again to give us a really exciting finale.In terms of the plot of Cabal, it's a good one - the Nightbreed are a community of peaceful "monsters" who have moved to Midian as a consequence of the fear they instilled in those who didn't understand what they were.
Through rumour and heresy he finds himself heading for the fabled Midian, where monsters take refugee, hot on his heels is his jilted girlfriend and Decker, with his Button Face killer mask and persona close at hand.
Horrifically imaginative, you occasionally see echoes of Clive Barkers intense and vivid imagery in modern fiction, I could name several pieces I've read in the last couple of years influenced by ideas in Cabal.
Deckers Button Face mask was something I wasn't really a hundred percent certain with, a human monster with all the other things running round, was it needed?
So yeah I enjoyed Cabal , some brilliant ideas, fluid writing and thoughtful prose, just needed more.
And more: a place where whatever sins they’d committed– real or imagined– would be forgiven them.”Cabal is the story of a town called Midian and its monstrous residents, the Nightbreed.
Dr. Decker (as portrayed by the great  David Cronenberg*).Boone is half convinced that he is the serial killer and goes to Midian, a place he has heard about, where the likes of him may find the truth about themselves and their place in the world.
Click image to embiggen.Cabal is a clearly a horror novel but it has an epic dark fantasy styling with a lot of world building and a cool mythology.
”‘Where d’you hear about Midian?’ ‘Same place you did,’ Boone said.
This isn’t much of a spoiler because it’s in the earlier stages of the story, but handsome, muscled-up Dr. Decker is actually a serial killer who wears a mask with button eyes and gets serious murder boners when, ya know, murdering people.
Whereas the Night Breed and Boone accept the monsters within themselves, Decker doesn’t enjoy his own self at all.
(view spoiler)[At the end of the novel, with the bloodthirsty human mob dispersed and the Night Breed almost extinct, Boone and the surviving vampires head into the depths of Midian to hang out with their god, Baphomet.
The heart of the book is Lori, a highly sympathetic and believable female character (Barker's good at that), and the shift from Boone's narrative to hers at first felt jarring, mostly because I felt that it was going to shift back.
It's the change in Lori and her better understanding of herself and her feelings for Boone that drives the whole thing for me, and makes it truly romantic, above and beyond anything I've read that's been labeled a romance.
Nepravedno kod mene,zanemaren.Proslo je jače od 10 godina od pročitanog Barkerovog romana.I sa tom distancom u godinama i broju pročitanih knjiga,i dalje tvrdim isto.Da bi bio vrhunski pisac žanra. nije potrebna samo dobra ideja.Majstorstvo baratanja rečima mora biti na najvišem nivou.A to Klajvu vrlo uspešno polazi za rukom.Tome doprinosi i maestralno uradjen prevod.Sve u svemu,dobre pisce treba dozirati, a ja neću sigurno čekati ponovo 10 godina pre nego uzmem opet Barkera na čitanje
Aaron Boone está sufriendo espantosas pesadillas que le llevan a visitar al psiquiatra Decker.
A raíz de estos problemas mentales, entrará en conocimiento de Midian, un lugar en el que los monstruos pueden encontrar su hogar.‘Cabal: Razas de noche’ (Cabal, 1988), del británico Clive Barker, empieza como un thriller para pasar a convertirse en una novela de terror.
Si bien hay escenas sangrientas, Barker no se centra tanto en ellas, como en otro tipo de descripciones y sentimientos.
El libro empieza muy bien, y engancha desde un principio, con el misterio que plantea sobre Midian.
It's a tale of a character named Boone who believes that he is a serial killer.
During sessions with his therapist, Dr. Decker, he tries to convince Boone that he has to give himself up for the murders he committed.
From him, Boone learns of a refuge for monsters that are similar to him in the northern Canadian woods called Midian.
Barker crafts an interesting take on the monster movie-style saga where the humans are the real monsters and the shape shifters are the persecuted victims.
The characters are interesting.
I wanted to learn more of their origins, history, and capabilities.
Por mucho que se le alabe como gran autor de terror no cambiara mi opinión sobre él: no tiene capacidad de causar terror, lo intenta dando asco.Pues él tan solo mete cosas desagradables, monstruos repugnantes y sexo sucio. Y aunque tenga una buena idea, la destroza con su característica.
I loved this more when I was younger, and it is a memorable read but not something I always go back to. I was reading this and Great and Secret Show early on, and he shaped my words more than most authors. The dialogue was perfectly arranged in many parts. Boone is a hard character to root for, you're on Lori's side more the whole time. Overall Decker is a perfect nemesis but seems to be revealed too early, so the twists are elsewhere in relation to the Night Breed.
A long gestation - bought 2001, completely read...now.Midian is the Vanishing Point of Reference"Cabal" is a bloodier The Graveyard Book: hero lives in cemetery among...uh, friends...because normal life is ruined by machinations of psycho-killer; but that isn't enough for the evil doctor.
Remember the shock of seeing a dogeared copy of a book by this here bloke in the converted cell we used as a school room - and the blurb on the jacket, it read 'I have seen the future of Clive Barker and its name is horror.' That was by King Stephen!
How Spoilers Bleed: Not really a spoiler for a Barker story, but the spoilers?
Hazmedemedigim, beni cok rahatsiz eden, her defasinda kafami kitaptan kaldirip hikayeden kopmama neden olan bir sey var.
Ustelik kitabin orta yerinde bir de rahip var!
Rahip suyu takdis ediyor ama Allah da Allah...
God kelimesinin Turkce karsiliginin Tanri oldugunu, Allah kelimesinin Ingilizce karsiligininsa yine Allah oldugunu, ceviri sirasinda bir dine ait ogenin diger dine uyarlanamayacagini, bunun yerellestirme degil de basbayagi iki kulture de haksizlik oldugunu ogrenecegimiz gunler elbet gelecek.
Ama ne zaman?
O kadar cok cevirmen, editor ve yayinevi ayni hataya dusuyor ki.
Uzuluyorum.Sayet eger o dini yerellestirme mevzusuna takilmazsaniz kolaylikla, gerile gerile okuyabileceginiz bir kitap Kabal.
KMK izazov - završenVeoma sam prijatno iznenađena činjenicom da je ovo zapravo jedno kvalitetno napisano delo (barem, meni), iako imam par zamerki. No, iako vas dobro napisano delo može "držati" da ga čitate, to ne znači da će vam se i svideti. Meni se ovo nije nešto preterano svidelo, ali nije ni da mi se nije uopšte svidelo. Ali bez obzira na to, drago mi je što sam prihvatila ovaj izazov. :)Čim budem napisala detaljniju recenziju na svom blogu, ostaviću ovde link.Naknadno dodato:Kao što sam obećala, napisala sam recenziju ove knjige, te evo i linka tog posta: https://hvatacsnova.blogspot.rs/2018/...
The story turns all our ideas about horror fiction on its head, with Barker’s classic tale of misguided humanity.
The novel is extremely well-written, bringing together horror and fantasy in this dark tale of passion, love and persecution.
Barker’s limitless imagination has constructed a truly bizarre and involved tale, that captivates the reader early on, with the quiet whisperings of this forgotten world.
This is a story that will immerse you in the horror and unbelievable, forging a novel that you will remember for a long time to come.
The story was later adapted in 1990 with Clive Barker acting as both the Director and the Screenwriter.
Midian is where the bulk of the action in the book takes place, and can be applied both to the ghost town and the cemetery that lies nearby.
He and Ol' Button Face are a double act that are truly memorable.I really enjoyed this book and my only criticism is that I was disappointed with the ending.
That's my only complaint, and it is made in the spirit of showing how great a novel this is in the first place.Enjoy!
The basis for the horror film Nightbreed, Clive Barker's short 1988 novel Cabal is typically Barkian in all the best ways.
Filled with gore and love and lust and regret and death, Cabal is classic Barker.
And at only 200 pages in hardcover, this story about what's in between life and death (and what it means to be a true monster) is a quick and rewarding read.
Though this story doesn't take place in that city, this authors hails from there and this novella very much resembles London horror.
This wasn't unentertaining, but it's certainly not why I like Clive Barker.CABAL is a contemporary gothic love story that I could only describe as Edgar Allan Poe meets Beetlejuice. Or Tim Burton if he stopped trying to make goth culture cute and accessible. It's simplistic, yet it means to be simplistic and I just didn't find the Clive Barker that I love, who enjoys pushing boundaries in this book. It was well-crafted at best, but not an inspiring read.
It had a texture, as though it carried a weight of dust, the motes steadily gumming up her eyes and sealing her nose, finding its way into her underwear and up into her body by those routes too.Cabal is the inspiration behind Barker's film, Nightbreed.
After having read this book, I think another viewing of the film is in order, especially because the Director's Cut has since been released!There was horror; gore; interesting characters; love.
& it wouldn't be a Barker novel without a scene or two that makes you shake your head, reread it to make sure you read what you in fact thought it was & then giggle (or maybe that is just me?) I love it.
Cabal takes a close look a monsters, and discovers that there is a lot more to them than appearances lead you to believe.
At the same time, there's no escaping the fact that they remain...
well, monsters.
Minority groups are often quick to relate the metaphor of Midian to themselves, but that can only be done on the most selective reading.
For these same reasons, I'm inclined to read the monsters of Midian as an exaggerated representation of humanity at large rather than any portion of it.
Of course, the fact that this discussion can be had at all suggests that this a great book.
CABAL is a zombie story as only Barker could have written it. Now I need to see the movie...
And given that Barker’s main selling point is the weird creatures and world, you’d think he’d do a better job of showing it to you.‘Yeah so it’s like a teddy bear with blades on it.’‘Where are the blades?’‘On the teddy bear!
I swear to god I don’t understand at this point how anyone is excited about a new superhero film- like, has the energy to go watch it, discuss it… write it… act in it… work on it?
It’s so tedious.So don’t miss out on this one![I totally forgot that I wanted to read this because it inspired the album Midian by Cradle of Filth.
If you’re not quite ready to get vicariously blood-drenched, but you’d like a taste of the later Barker’s work, try “Cabal.” Like “Hellbound Heart,” it was published after the Books of Blood but is sometimes repackaged as an extension of that series. As a bonus, one of the short stories usually bundled with it is “The Last Illusion,” which served as the basis for the film “Lord of Illusions,” an urban fantasy starring the always excellent Scott Bakula. “Cabal” itself would go on to form the bas
If you’re not quite ready to get vicariously blood-drenched, but you’d like a taste of the later Barker’s work, try “Cabal.” Like “Hellbound Heart,” it was published after the Books of Blood but is sometimes repackaged as an extension of that series.
“Cabal” itself would go on to form the basis of another self-adaptation by Barker, 1990’s Nightbreed.The plot of “Cabal” is significantly more complex than that of “Hellbound Heart”: Boone, a young man suffering from blackouts, is convinced by his therapist (hilariously overplayed in the movie by cult-favorite director David Cronenberg) that he is the psycho behind a series of monstrous murders.
Siento que más bien es un 2.2/5Vaya decepción, verán, siempre he sido de la idea de que por mucho que te recomienden a un autor o inclusive, que lo difamen, nunca te harás una idea real hasta que no lo hayas experimentado por tu propia mano, así me ha pasado con Barker.Barker es un autor que prácticamente todos mis conocidos me recomiendan, y les soy sincero ya he leído algunos cuentos y relatos de él, sobre todo Los libros de sangre que yo considero excelentes, inclusive The Hellbound Heart lo considero bueno, pero sigue siendo novella, en este caso me ha tocado con una novela un poco más extensa y fue Cabal, y bueno, digamos que lo ha intentado...
Clive Barker's dark Cabal (the movie "Nightbreed" is based on it) is one of his many great tales. I'm almost as impressed by this author's economical writing power and his grasp of human nature as I am with his original stories. This one's a horror love story that begins with a trusted but secretly psychotic psychiatrist convincing the hero he's a murderer. Hunted, the hero seeks a safe haven with the shape-shifting Nightbreed.There's one gorgeously direct sex scene in Cabal that should be read by any romance novelist as an inoculation against purple prose.
The stuff nightmares are made of. The monsters who are lonely and frail and almost human one moment, and beasts another, gorging on blood and flesh. You read, and you're not sure what you read, and then it's over and you wonder what hit you. Only Clive Barker can turn evil into poetry.
I just love Clive Barker. He may write horror and fantasy, but he writes some of the most beautiful prose I've ever read. I only wish this one were longer.
Κλάιβ είσαι καλός, αγαπημένος και λοιπά αλλά το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο ήταν μεγάλη μπούρδα. Ένα συνονθύλευμα κλισέ και ένας χάρτινος χαρακτήρας. Εντυπωσιακό το εξώφυλλο και η περίληψη του βιβλίου αλλά το περιεχόμενο είναι χάλια. Ειδικά εκεί στην νεκρόπολη το πράγμα γίνεται γελοίο.
Now, the assembly of the 'Cabal Cut' from DVD and VHS sources and the ongoing quest to recover the negatives for Barker's original vision of the film have reminded me how intriguing I have found Barker's work from afar, so I was glad to finally dig in.This is a short novel with a story that other authors would turn into a series or at least a tome, as it centres on Midian, an underground community of monsters.
The serial killer thread that leads the main character, Boone, to Midian is fairly rote, and the prose isn't as evocative as I was expecting given Barker's reputation, but otherwise the vision of 'Cabal' is quite dazzling.
Perhaps in particular his early works like the short fiction in The Books of Blood and The Hellbound Heart, and Cabal is clearly (pardon the pun) of the same breed.Barker writes with all the stops out and throws his readers into the midst of a world both nightmarish and fantastic.
Barker's early writing seems (at least often and in the cases mentioned) unapologetically horrific, presenting the reader with unsolved horrors, horrors perhaps to grand to solve.
