https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/727543.How_the_West_Was_Won
One of Western writer Louie L’Amour’s more recognizable titles, and rightly so, this entertaining fictional history was first published in 1962.Telling the compact, fast moving story of a family of settlers from the 1840s to the 1880s, L’Amour covers a lot of ground and paints a portrait of the old west in grand scale.This was clearly well researched by the author.
L’Amour made an astute observation about the Western Native Americans, comparing their horse culture with the Mongols and went further to opine that if the tribes had a leader like Khan, they may have pushed the white men back east.
Good ol' fashioned shoot 'em up fun!How the West was Won follows an ancestral family tree of folks through short story snippets of their lives as played out over the course of the United States' western expansion.
L'Amour develops characters just enough to make you care if they survive the big moments of the 19th century, such as the gold rush and the Civil War. This is not brilliant prose.
For instance, everything in Louis L'Amour's world happens suddenly!
Hey, these rootin' tootin' tales maybe ain't Shakespeare, but sit back a spell, let ol' L'Amour spin ya a heck of yarn and I promise ya won't be sorry ya did!Rating: 3.5
And this isn’t L’Amour because I’m pretty sure it’s in the movie, but Linus going to ‘see the varmint’ as a euphemism for sex is probably the funniest thing I’ve read in a while.
Without seeing the movie, I’m fairly sure that L’Amour inserted some of his own knowledge and history therein this book – a man who’d been there, done that, he adds some interesting commentary regarding the Indians and other things, relating them to other parts of history.
It can’t go unsaid that the West was really won by us running roughshod over the peoples here first, but the book doesn’t really excuse that bad history, it just tells the story.
More of a 3.5, but quite good, more meat than the typical L'Amour. Sort of a quick version of John Jakes' Bicentennial series, just focused on the mid to late 1800's. I was surprised to find out that L'Amour just wrote the novelization of the screenplay, not the original story.
My dad loves all his books and I read over a hundred while staving off the night terrors when growing up.It is a strange fact about the old west, Indians, and the genocidal take over of the land now called the United States that fiction writing about them is often taken for truth (see Ward Churchill's Fantasies of the Master Race).
L'amour was a seller of fantasy, of lies, and of ideals that white men like to think they possess.
Reading one of his novels, one gets the feeling he never did any research required of historical novels.
A sprawling book written with the usual L'Amour skill. The movie was a bit of a mess but the book was much cleaner if still somewhat messy.
I know that there are people out there who have read every single one of Louis L'Amour's books.
Most of them also probably fall into the category of people who have rarely read a book written by anybody else.
I saw a documentary about something-or-other once wherein the documentarian interviewed a man who bragged that he had read every Louis L'Amour novel at least ten times, marking the dates that he'd the read each book inside the front cover.I'm not that guy.
There are just too damn many good books in the world to be wasting time on bodice rippers and ranch romances.
The holidays are a perfect time to read Louis L'Amour.
When I checked it out I thought the title seemed a little familiar, just like the classic movie staring Jimmy Stewart, Debbie Reynolds, John Wayne, Gregory Peck and others, and wondered how Hollywood could have used the exact same title.
The book had a lot more internal dialogue, which was interesting, but the movie is such a classic that I found myself watching the movie in my head.
And surprise...after some research I found that Louis L'Amour based his book on the movie!
A great writer like L'Amour having to write a book based on a movie.
Another really enjoyable book. It is one which follows the different generations of a family and their contribution to the West. Fictional, but fun.
And in Louis L'Amour books, the action takes place suddenly!
And suddenly the family members part paths and embark on new adventures throughout the American West.
I suppose the West of the 1850s might just have been such a place, but the way the story lines intermingle makes the geography seem more on the scale of a county in rural Iowa than fully half the North American continent.This book has broad sweep in recounting the tales of immigrants headed west via canal, river and wagon, the construction of the intercontinental railroad, miners hitting it big in the Comstock and so on.

** "How The West Was Won", by Louis L'Amour, begins well, but deteriorates. The first part is the clearest, a trapper snared by the elder daughter of a pioneer family, whose relations people the other four parts. The second part matches the younger sister with a gambler who toughens into an honorable gunman, practically synonyms in L'Amour language. Perhaps my confusion stems from the book being based on a screenplay, trying to weave too many threads, railway through Indian land, war with the Union, and outlaws taking a good man.
How the West was Won - James Stewart and George Preppard. An 'LL western novel made into a very good movie. A trapper headed to St Louis assist a boat with a family and he meets the daughter. After they settle down they have numerous children and everything is fine until the Civil War breaks out. The trappers and one son go to war. The youngest son when old enough heads West and becomes a U.S. Marshal. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
I was prepared to give this book three stars - until Zeb went West. The first half of the book was a poor imitation of the movie. The second half, however, is superior to the movie. Once Zeb goes west, L'Amour takes over and offers us context, back stories and complexity that the movie could not explore. It truly feels like two different books. What Jimmy Stewart gave us in Linus could not be beaten by L'Amour but what LLA gave to Zeb, Julie and Jethro could have been its own classic film.
This was not original with L'Amour--it is actually a novelization of the movie screenplay by James R. Webb. At any rate, I felt like the novel had too many characters scattered throughout and tried to tell too expansive of a story. Although I did enjoy the details and some of the characters, I found that the whole thing wasn't very cohesive.
Fun, quick read. Skimmed from character to character a little too shallowly, but I guess it's a Louis l'amour so you should expect it. There are river pirates, buffalo, trains, gold, arapahoes, and some altercations with bears...what more could you ask for?
A very fast paced survey of starting out from New York and making the way West. Indians, outlaws, train robberies, hunger, gold... it's all there! The mountain men are the best part. Good times.
This L'Amour book was a tinge different than his others I've read.
It has the definite feel of book written off a movie, which is what it is.
That's important to note: The movie came first, and then the book.
With Jimmy Stewart, John Wayne, Gregory Peck [should I go on?
oh I will], Debbie Reynolds, Henry Fonda, and of course directed in part by the legendary John Ford.
Ahhhhh, the movie.
Here's the problem: Being a book from a movie [L'Amour was asked to write the book], it doesn't feel a whole lot like his other books.
This is the story of one family; the Prescotts.
Mother, father, Eve & Lilith left Ohio heading west with the Harveys, on rafts via the canal.
They had a lot of adventures.
Met mountain man, Linus Rawlings who was back east to sell his pelts and ended up staying there with Eve; Escaped river pirates and took the wrong branch of the river which sent them into rapids and lost both parents.
Lillith still worked her way west and other family members showed up in her later years.
Basically one story of the families that moved west during that period of time.
Louis L'Amour was not one of the most technical or long-winded writers, he was short, succinct, and to the point and had a way that grabs you into the story immediately. The descriptions of the scenery, events, people, and situations made you feel as if you were right there living it side-by-side with his characters.With this book, he expands that a little bit into a family saga of the 1800's. You learn about the ruggedness of the survivors and how quickly a life could be snuffed out with the weak and unlucky.
I rarely read a Western but this fit a category in my reading challenge. I listened to the audiobook and the narrator was really good. Lots of names which I probably would have figured out better if I'd been reading the book. It has the typical Western happenings - Families going West to settle, Civil War battles, building the railroad, fighting with Indians, gold rush, outlaws, Marshalls trying to keep peace, etc., etc. I think the movie "How the West was Won" may have been based on this book.
Always wanted to try a book by L'Amour---certainly shelve loads of his books. Was pleasantly surprised at how thoughtful and well-written it is. Expected lots of dissing on Native Americans, but instead it looked at how their land was stolen and how they were lied to by the Railroad people and some white men. Mainly it was a grand adventure, with a little romance thrown in, from the very first page. Delighted to have tried this author!
It has been quite a long time since I've read a Louis L'Armour western and I had forgotten how good they can be. Like his others, this one seems so authentic and historically accurate that it almost seems like fact rather than fiction. Well written and well paced, this book is a pleasure to read. I also liked the postscript his son added ... it adds interest to how the story was created.I won a copy of this book in a Goodreads giveaway for this honest review.
A great Western yarn. All the ingredients with a family moving west and tracing their progress through two generations. Lots of action, tragedy and steadfastness in the face of adversity. One aspect is the morality. However, the outlaws always get their comeuppance while politicians just get rich off corrupt dealings. A good read.
"How the West Was Won" covers two plus generations in the westward movement, providing the reader with an over-all picture of the times. Author Louis L'Amour portrays the main characters as men and women with fortitude, bravery and humanness. The book contains history in a novelized fashion.
A fun Western saga
Quick entertaining read.
3 1/2 stars
classic lamour, i have read this before and it is a real Western classic!
Picked this up in a Walmart while on vacation for a few dollars. It was disappointing.The book contains a few interrelated, intergenerational stories, none of them very interesting except maybe the last one. I thought I would blow through this book in a week but it took me longer because I couldn't get really into it.
