https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185292.The_Ruins_of_Ambrai
I loved this book, but I would recommend against picking it up.
If you read this and the sequel, the story draws you in and leaves you wanting to know what happens next, along with a bit of what happened in the past as some of the backstory has not yet been revealed.
However, my feeling is that reading something that leaves you this hungry for more is just an exercise in futility until that one is released.
If you want to read some Melanie Rawn, read her Dragon Prince/Star books, or the new ones she's been working on.
This has to be my ultimate favorite book.
There are so many things that I love about this series.First, I love how the author tells the story.
Ultimately, you find yourself cheering for both characters, and gives so much depth to the story.Second, I love the society the author has created.
People aren't necessarily citizens of a nation/country/state, they are citizens of a family.
It focuses on the connections and loyalties between people and family members.
Third, the author has no problem killing off main characters -- not that this happens often.
Mine had the cover art from The Ruins of Ambrai on it (could that lady spot a nerd, or what?!), and eventually, a year or two later, I got around to actually reading the book.Guilty pleasure?
Maybe, but the pleasure certainly outweighs the guilt in this case.
This is one of those books I go back to as "comfort food" when I need to take a break from school-related reading and get lost in something fun, and it, along with the sequel, were good enough that I still find myself occasionally checking to see if the third book in the trilogy has been completed yet.
But as I've said before, expectations have a way to come back and bite you in the ass, and this is exactly what happened to me with this one.After a confusing beginning and an uninspired few hundred pages, I had a feeling that this novel would be a complete disaster.
And someone has been planning just such a war for many long years, the final strike in a generations-old bid for total power…Worldbuilding is a facet in which Melanie Rawn usually shines and to a certain extent that's the case with this novel.
In the long run, Rawn closes the show with style and aplomb with an ending that promises a lot of good things to come.
I read this book when I was around fourteen and I'm not sure what possessed me to read it again but I did.
When I was fourteen I really enjoyed this book.
I enjoyed e-learning Collan, Sarra, Glenin and Cailet's back story and watching them grow into their roles.
The heartbreak as the rising continued kept me enthralled as well as the spats between Collan and Sarra, which had me laughing.
The only thing that annoyed me was that the end seemed a little rushed and anticlimactic.
It seemed like the big fight scene at the end really didn't matter and I wanted it to to so much more than it it.
Sigh. I love it when an author takes the time to build a complex, interesting world. But in this one, it's so complex that at times the plot gets drowned out by the explainitis going on from the writer -- this was a book that was gorgeous in tone, and in language, but really needed an editor to trim it down. Hence the three star review. And I keep hearing rumours of a third book in the series, but haven't seen anything yet. For the complete review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Exiles...
For example, the government is a representative democracy, but its leader has taken over enough power single-handedly to completely destroy one of the 15 member-states, apparently without comment or protest from any of the others.
The worst thing is that half the time the contradictory details weren't even necessary to the story - just leave them out and you're fine!But I persevered, because I did at least want to see how the few more interesting characters got along, and see what happens with their little rebellion, and to find out how the evil baddie gets it in the end.
The author's grasp of her world, the family trees of the characters, and the political histories involved was impressive, but they could have been presented better.
I feel like some good editing of flow or spreading out of information as the story unfolded could have had a huge positive impact on the reader's experience.Also–a minor thing, but it really threw me–two very forceful and politically powerful women were mentioned regularly early on in regards to the political climate, but for a long time I thought they were the same person because their names were so similar.
Rawn's books tend to be.
It's a fabulous book: witty, imaginative, and intricate, with completely unique characters at every turn.
Rawn's societies are amazingly detailed, completely thought out and thoroughly planned.
a little long-winded in parts, leaving me wanting the story itself to continue.
But Rawn gets you through by presenting these parts through the eyes of a character who is utterly fascinated with them, or by making the events and politics essential to the plot.The book, in my opinion, was a little hard to get into, but once you are through the first chapter, you should be hooked.
Magic is present but not constantly in use.
The book is pleasantly chunky, full of descriptions and explanations that give the world quite a bit of depth and make it seem real, which can either be fun to read if you find that sort of thing interesting, or dull if you're not particularly fond of lengthy tidbits.
I found it interesting, so I enjoyed the book rather than yawned at it.
Also of interest to me was the more female-led society presented in the story, which is definitely refreshing, and, I will admit, a large reason why I enjoyed the book.
While I absolutely love Melanie Rawn, I was sorely disappointed that she did not finish this series. The books were outstanding, hence the five star review. But I would like to see this series finished. I don't know the reasons behind why she did not, but I have seen recent works of hers out on bookshelves and it still makes me wonder. Oh well.
I've told the story before about how this book changed my life, so I won't repeat it here. I'll just say that even though it's not perfect - there are some contradictions and inconsistencies and some things that just don't make much sense - it still gets all the stars because it's an excellent story and because I owe my entire life to it.
However I understand why it wasn't broken-up; looking back I have no idea where I would have chosen to split the novel.On the minus side this book was a slog.
It was very hard to keep track of characters: there is a metric fuck-ton of them and they all have very similar (and in some cases identical, damnit) names.
Why even say that's what the book is about on the flap if the book has NOTHING TO DO WITH THAT?On the plus side, it was so well written and several of the characters were so well developed that I managed to totally ignore all the minus' most of the time.
(I was particularly happy to see those two go first, though, because the plot device of (view spoiler)[children's rhymes for magical ladders (hide spoiler)] was one of the dumbest things, and about where I gave up on enjoying the book.) There's also the ridiculous deus ex machina ending as well, but I won't go into that because I was just breezing through pages and forcing myself to finish by that point, so it wouldn't really be fair.This really seemed like it'd be a book I would love, but, unfortunately, it just wasn't working.
Not sure how I feel about this book at the end: I really liked it for the first half (up to ~p260), but then it started to seem that all the female characters were the same person (I guess Cailet seemed a bit distinct from her sisters), and inconsistency within the same character (I seem to recall Sarra first urging Alin to try at suspected Ladder, and then when they come across another suspected one, completely forbidding him from trying it until they had given it careful consideration.
Although, on further thought, it's possible the latter Ladder was the one into Malerris castle, in which case extra caution would be understandable).I continue to be Displeased about Alin and Val dying, since they were great, and naturally they "had" to die to give some emotional impact, while still being able to have expendable deaths.

Although I LOVED this book and the second one in the series, I do NOT recommend that anyone read either of them, YET. The third book has never been written and it has been over 12 years since the last one was published. If and when the final book comes out I will change this rating, but so many unanswered questions/cliff hangers really spoil the first two books.
without a doubt one of the best series i have EVER read. Melanie Rawns worlds and characters are beautifully crafted, and although her stories are very long, they dont FEEL long when you read them, total page turners.
This novel is really great for about the first third of the book.
Satire cannot carry an epic fantasy series, and in the end the odd mix of satire and melodrama sinks this book and this series into a hole she still hasn't writter helself out of more than ten years later.
OH yes she still hasn't finished this series more that a decade after they published book two and has no solid plans to finish this series.
While this book has some really great parts the overall series and story falls flat on its face.

I absolutely loved this book and it's one that i check on every few months in the desperate hopes of the third in the series coming out. Others are right - until the last book comes out perhaps stay clear because it is such a gripping story that even fifteen years after reading it, I still double check on amazon and in every bookshelf I go into!The story itself is really interesting - the world that is created is brilliant, the characters layered and compelling and the mysteries that start to unfold are gripping.
I read this a looooong time ago, but I remember really enjoying it.
Men på det punkt er Collan anderledes, for han holder sig ikke tilbage for at have sine egne meninger eller at svare igen – og det gør han på sådan en kæk vis, at jeg ikke helt kunne lade være med at finde ham ganske charmerende.Bogens kvindelige hovedpersoner tæller hele tre: Søstrene Glenin, Sarra og Cailet Ambrai.
Kun den midterste søster, Sarra, er bekendt med sine søstres identitet… Sammenholdt med bagside teksten er det vel ikke svært at gætte, hvad plottet er… Mere vil jeg ikke afsløre…Det er en svær bog at skulle skrive en anmeldelse af, for den har mange facetter:For det første er der den verden, som bliver beskrevet.
Like her other novels, there are a horde of characters that Melanie ruthlessly starts to kill off, which I found quite refreshing given that many authors typically don't kill off their main protagonists.
I would highly recommend this book and it's sequel, Mageborn Traitor, although a word of warning that the 3rd book has been pending for 20 years so if you do start reading and find that you like the series, you'll end up like the rest of us, waiting endlessly for the 3rd book to be written.
TL; DR version: With the intricacy of R.R. Martin's popular series A Song of Ice and Fire, the spywork and cultural undertones of Tamora Pierce's Daughter of the Lioness series, and Melanie Rawn's own unique and very clever gender role reversal twist, The Ruins of Ambrai is a must-read, especially for lovers of strong female characters.Full review:At nearly a thousand pages, this is a monster of a book, and I have to admit that I got stuck at the last 100 pages of resolution.
It's full of political intrigue, with three strong women as central characters.
There isn't much time used for character development, and each secondary character is, for the most part, described in a paragraph or two that the reader is expected to remember throughout the whole book.
The fine details of manipulative people are written in a way that describes their character without dictating what the reader thinks about them.
All in all, I greatly enjoyed The Ruins of Ambrai, and would like to locate the next book(s) in the series.
Glad I read this one! Loved the stories of each of the characters and how they intermingled. This book kept me entertained from the beginning.
Against that background, the most interesting part of the book is the careful role reversal: women rule the world of Lenfell and men are subordinate to them.
Also interesting is the author's attitude towards this role reversal: it's not right, either, and she illustrates this by placing sympathetic male characters into the subjugated role, and having them rebel against the indignity.
And the incessant romances between beautiful people (not one character, except for one of the villains, was anything but some sort of muscular, sinuous, brilliant or eloquent) brought the story perilously close to a soap opera.
I'm not typically a fan of the swords-and-magic corner of scifi/fantasy, but this book did hold my interest.
There seem to be rules, and magic is used casually but rarely so it doesn't end up mucking up the scenes too much.I did finish the book perplexed about certain motivations.
The gender switch is interesting without being absurd, and I think Rawn does a pretty good job of sketching a society where men generally fill the role of helper and companion rather than primary actors.
It's an interesting book.
The story of three sisters: Glenin, Sara, and Cailet.
Glenin becomes more focused on destroying the mages, and Sara compared to what she wanted in her first chapters.
Cailet is meant to be eighteen, but acts more like a small child for a good number of chapters despite the fact she’s meant to have grown up in the Waste.
Despite this she has more power than either of her sisters, which brings that whole, “Looks can be deceiving” thing to mind.
It’s refreshing to have a new outlook on what life would be like if a world was run by women, and if they had magic.
