https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1084278.Jo_Returns_to_the_Chalet_School
Jo Returns To The Chalet School, or 'the one where EBD couldn't let go', is, as nearly all of the Tyrolean books are, of a distinctly high standard.
This book sees Joey, our darling, return to the school in a teaching capacity having left the school the previous term.
The term also sees the arrival of Polly Heriot, a girl with possibly the best hair ever, Joey deciding to write her first book, and the beloved Mademoiselle Le/La/Lepattre/Lappatre being rushed up to San for a serious operation.
EBD could write a superb illness scene and I've talked more about that here.
Brent-Dyer's attitude to "writing for the young" (compounded, as it's meant to be, by Polly's mistake) - along with what passes for modern medicine in the 1930s - means this book is quite something.It's the mark of good writing, I think, to consistently reinforce themes.
But when that theme is to be careful of setting bad examples for kids - sloppily tied to being realistic when writing for kids - well.
I'm not sure if "dated" is the correct word to describe that.
The same words, in the same order, have appeared in almost every book I read this past weekend.
How much more satisfying for her than spending the term 'helping Madge with the babies' - a job she's not allowed to do the minute they all get measles.Jo is on good form in this book, and it's one that sticks in the memory because of Mademoiselle's illness, Joey's hair (which is somehow 'up' even though it doesn't yet reach her shoulders - EBD's obsession with this ritual is bizarre to say the least) and Polly.
What Joey does next at this point is very telling indeed: she makes a list of everybody in the school, and 'then she put ticks by the side of all those who had appeared in the story so far'.EBD, dear EBD.
The revered author of the Chalet School series must have had something of a conundrum on her hands when she put pen to paper for the first book in her boarding school series which would not feature her favourite (and in fact, most favoured) character, Jo Bettany, as an official part of the student body.
In this one, however, Brent-Dyer gives to the reader a sense of closure that was lacking at the end of The New House At The Chalet School (ostensibly the book in which Jo and her chums officially graduate from the school).
She gets stuck at the school due to the babies up at Die Rosen (encompassing Madge's children, Dick's children, and Jem's sister's children - argh!) getting measles and then whooping couch and then syphilis...
Oh, and there's a Christmas play, in which Jo still plays a starring role - do you think the other girls are getting annoyed that they never get a chance to shine?
Jo Bettany has left the Chalet School but comes back to visit at the start of term..
only to find that sickness prevents her from returning home.
So she begins writing a school story novel which she has been considering, and then gets co-opted into doing some teaching.Meanwhile Polly Herriot is the significant new girl of the term brought up in Victorian ways, with a governess who was at least 50 years out of date, and ideas about schools based on the worst of school stories.Very enjoyable as part of the Chalet School series - recommended to anyone who likes light teenage fiction of this kind.
It's many years since I'd read this book and I'd forgotten just about all of it.
Jo steps in to teach history when the sudden illness of some teachers creates an unexpected vacancy. Despite the challenges of a new job, she is able to complete and publish her first book in her spare time. In this volume, Jo is transformed from a lively, mischievous (though goodhearted) schoolgirl to an accomplished writer, wise and beloved beyond her tender years. Possibly the least convincing of all the Chalet School books, it still contains enough fun and missteps to remain somewhat entertaining.
I loved this book! As the title says, Joey Bettany returns to the Chalet School, at first, just for a visit to say hi. However, her nephews and nieces develop measles soon after, so she's forced to stay on at the Chalet School so that she doesn't fall sick as well. She begins to teach some classes to help out, and she also begins her plans to start writing her first novel.
It's a new term at the chalet school but Jo has returned and just in time to learn about the other side of school life - as a teacher. I enjoyed this as a child and as an adult as it helps the readers (hopefully including young adults still) to understand the teachers point of view. A fun and different more nature chalet book.
Another lovely story! Joey returns to school as teacher and author. Another new character, pupil Polly, who soon gets into mischief. So much illness throughout the book though, strange how so much emphasis is put on illness at this time.
