https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98696.I_Dared_to_Call_Him_Father
She then has another series of dreams and visions during which God the Father, Jesus the Son and the Holy Spirit all appear to her at separate times and presumably in different forms--she doesn't explain this.
Indeed, one of the missionaries says to her that God often speaks to his children through dreams and visions.
Our sins are washed away at the point of conversion when we trust Jesus not at the point of baptism.8.
What an encouragement this book is!
It is the true story of a wealthy highborn Muslim lady who is living in seclusion from the world.
It would seem impossible for her to find Christ, but she does, showing that God can reach anyone!
I also love her whole-hearted determination to follow Christ and remain in His presence whatever the personal cost.
She chooses to defy her family but show love to them and those of a lower caste than herself.
Her focus on pleasing Christ makes her an example to all.
Insightful and first-hand account of one woman's conversion from Islam to Christianity.
The author is very open about the process of her transformation, and the sacrifices she was required to make as a Pakistani woman of a prestigious family.
Even though the writing is elementary and slow at times, it is a short read that will open your eyes to the COST required of a woman of the East who chooses to follow Jesus.
It also demonstrates the impact Western missionaries can have in Islamic countries, as the author credits two Western couples living in Pakistan with leading her and teaching her about Christ.
This beautiful testimony really ignites and inspires faith.God is awe-inspiring in what ways He works!(Also loved the glimpses into Eastern culture!)
A fascinating story, but theologically, I don't agree with everything. Thus, three stars. :)
This is the memoir of a lady from Pakistan who fell in love with Jesus.This book is beautifully written -- a pleasure to read.
He will never force himself in where he is not wanted.” This book demonstrates that clearly, and shows how God reaches out to each of us in a tender way.Favorite quotes:“Whenever I did not feel His nearness, I knew that I had grieved Him. I would search backwards until I spotted the time when I last knew His Presence.
Seek My Presence, not results.”The only negative about this book: The author seems to ascribe to the theory of modalism, in regard to the Trinity.I was a little irritated at the book cover.
I have read several books sharing the testimonies of converted Muslims.
Revelation 3:20Bilquis shares the struggles she faced as a young Christian.
I felt convicted as I read about her sensitivity to sin, the Holy Spirit, and His leading.
Her friend Synnove Mitchell writes about Bilquis, “She was concerned not only to give her visitors truths about God, but to bring them into the presence of Jesus, the Truth.” P.
“I Know Whom I have Believed” I have sung this song many times without crying, but not today.I Dared to Call Him Father includes an Epilogue and two appendixes written by Bilquis’ friend Synnove Mitchell.
This book was the first biography given me, the first story I have ever heard on a Muslim converting to Christianity. Her story made me cry. She greatly impacted me.
Much of what she learned at her early conversion years were from direct bible study and the dynamics of the presence of God around her.
Oh how grateful we should be for missionaries who have committed their lives to serving the lord in very hostile places!
Eternity holds a bountiful rewards for every of their efforts.I learned from this book that we should not be so focused on the results and feedback we get while we are serving the lord.
Rather we should be focused on obeying God whether we get feedbacks or not.
This book was a fascinating read. In telling her story of conversion from Islam to Christianity, Sheikh reveals what it is to give everything - family, friends, wealth, reputation, and personal safety - to Jesus. Her descriptions of her joy and progress in the Christian faith are encouraging and inspiring. Oh, that all Christians (myself included) might share this woman’s commitment to Christ and to seeking his presence in their lives.
This book is the story of a high-born middle-aged Pakistani Muslim woman who converted from Islam to Christianity in 1966.
The story describes how she came to convert to Christianity and the consequences to herself and her extended Muslim family over the next six years.The book provided a fascinating look into what life was like for Christians in Pakistan in 1966 to 1972.
After careful consideration of how converting to Christianity would affect her life and that of her extended family and after sneaking over to ask questions of two Christian missionaries, she becomes a Christian.
Our amazing GodThis book reminded me that God seeks the lost in ways that are often quite different than what we as westerners are use to hearing of.
I remember seeing and hearing of His mysterious ways while living in Africa many years ago.
This book reminds me that God wants everyone to know him as Father and has given His all that we may know him intimately.
This book challenges me and creates a hunger in me to truly walk so close to Him that I know when I have taken even the slightest step away.
It is so refreshing and challenging.
The autobiography of a Pakistani woman who came to know Christ, with the consequence of losing all her Muslim family relationships, being ostracized in her home town, and having eventually to leave her country. Fascinating on many levels, especially how visions played a large part in her salvation, and how having a close, very intimate relationship with her Lord was the key to her growth and usefulness. Highly recommended!
Loved this book! I couldn't put it down and read it in one sitting.So deeply moving and just as convicting. Highly recommend and not just for book club.Willing to loan out my copy but suggest you order one for yourself to keep on your book shelf and/or pass on...
She however, chose to trust God instead of living in fear, and she sets a great example of following Jesus, even when the toughest of times seems to be demanding otherwise.
My favorite quality about this woman, is the fact that she was so sensitive to God's presence, and to not grieving Him. She learned that when she spoke roughly to her servants, told a "white" lie, or began to trust in man's methods and doubt God's protection, His presence would seem to fade.
Whereas, when she trusted fully in the Lord, told the truth, and was kind to others, His presence was more powerful and softly there.
She is a remarkable woman, and this book is a story well worth reading.
She grew up with a very loving and close relationship with her father, but approaching God as Father was an alien concept to her.
I grew up calling God Father, but having a loving and close relationship with a father continues to be a barely more than abstract concept to me.
Her approach to spiritual things might not have been theologically on the mark, but her obedience and fruitfulness make it clear that God honored her faith, so I've got no business dishonoring it.I will, however, not hesitate to dishonor the dishonest cover design.
I had a hard time connecting to Bilquis at the beginning because of her condescending attitude towards her servants, but her condescension came from her position as an aristocrat.
I also started to question if the story was real because she used "Christianese" terms that a Pakistani wouldn't, but then I realized (view spoiler)[(1) that this book was written after she had for years recounted her story before churches and (2) that she had written this book to Christians.
The best thing about this story was how she learned to listen to God's voice.
(hide spoiler)]I got more out of a similar book: Nabeel Qureshi's Seeking Allah, Finding Jesus: A Devout Muslim Encounters Christianity
To be honest, as I finished the book, I felt jealous. To be able to say that you feel the 'glory of God' on a regular basis...to be that sensitive to His spirit. I want that.Look at all she gave up and was willing to give up. We Americans sure do have it easy. And perhaps with our easy faith, we miss something. Or we must really actively seek that something.So instead of this book being 'eye opening' about Muslim culture, which the understanding of has become my personal goal, it became convicting of my own complacency.
What a great testimony! Amazing! I couldn't put it down! Enjoyed it! Very Encouraging. I have come to realize that When God works in you and changes you, He doesn't just touch you and change you but changes everything else & touches others around you! Everything God does is for His name sake... To bring Glory to Almighty God.
I gained a lot of insight into Gods amazing love for everyone. He looks at the heart and reveals Himself to those who seek Him. Probably one of the earliest stories of how God reveals His redemptive love to Musilms. This story inspires me to pray for Muslims and for Australians who have never heard the gospel. Nothing is too hard for our God.
A wonderful true story of how God miraculously saved a Pakistani aristocrat and taught her how to walk by His Spirit in the midst of a culture hostile towards Christians.
Talk to Him as if He were your father.”“The thought shook my soul in the peculiar way truth has of being at once starling and comforting…No Muslim, I felt certain, ever thought of Allah as his father.” But thoughts of her loving earthly father encouraged her to think of God in the same way, so she prayed to Him. In part of her prayer, she confessed her confusion and asked whether the Bible or the Quran was His book.
I Dared to Call Him Father was written by Bilquis Sheikh, for it was her story about how she, a Muslim, met the Lord and became His “daughter.” The book chronicles her life story and how she went from a high class, noble Muslim family to a devout Christian in Pakistan, a country with serious consequences for anyone who would dare to convert.
If non Christians would read this book, they couldn’t help but be drawn to the beauty of having Christ in their life.
This book is a memoir and a testimony, opening a window into the life and stunning spiritual conversion of a Pakistani matriarch by the name of Madame Bilquis Sheikh.
Snappish and proud, the woman undergoes a radical change when—in a series of vivid dreams—she has an encounter that forces her to reassess her long held beliefs.
Her spiritual awakening, sensitivity, and determination to remain in God's presence is passionately authentic and keenly inspiring.
She was trying to impart a better understanding of her personal situation as an oppressed member of a minority Christian community--in a country that remains viciously hostile toward its minority and serving classes.
I LOVED this book! It has inspired me to seek God more and follow Him more closely. Good stuff!

My feelings for this book are complicated.
Yes, this book is a wonderful encouragement because it reveals just how far Jesus will go to usher His children to himself.
However, I would not canonize this work as one of the great Christian works.
This book was full of miracles, but it does not compare to The Heavenly Man or Chasing the Dragon (and other equally amazing works exhibiting God's great work through His people).
It's difficult to completely encapsulate exactly what I feel about the book and put words to all that I think about it...
Uplifting, amazing story of an upper-class Pakistani, nominally Muslim woman who came to know Jesus through some extraordinary circumstances -- for example, she dreamed she had dinner w/ Jesus, then dreamed about John the Baptist and asked him to take her to Jesus -- before she'd ever heard the name of John the Baptist!
Once Bilquis became a believer, she exhibited great courage in staying in her predominantly Muslim community despite personal risk (she got death threats).
She also had a remarkable sense of the presence of the Father, and she was very sensitive to when she grieved Him -- she was quick to repent.
I've enjoyed reading her encounter with God as Father.
I've found in my own life the courage to speak and breathe the name of God as Abba and have found the courage to share the importance of the name.
The relationship expressed through my acknowledgement of Father God has provided me strength that I didn't know that I had, peace I thought I would never experience, and an identity far beyond what I thought was possible.
Sheikh's journey into her Child of God-ness is refreshing and inspiring.
She shares te experience of being in the warmth of the presence of God and feeling the separation from her Father.
I'm not a fan of autobiographies. This book was in my daughters' reading list for school, and it piqued my interest. It is so very well written; interesting, informative, inspiring. We are taught that dry spells are inevitable; Bilquis Sheik didn't accept that. Her desire to stay in the glory was really eye-opening. I can honestly say that this book will have a significant impact on my walk.
