https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432283.If_Life_Is_a_Bowl_of_Cherries_What_Am_I_Doing_in_the_Pits_
My dad, being funny, brought home a pillow that said, " It's A Crying Shame," and a book by Erma Bombeck.
That book was If Life Is A Bowl Of Cherries, What Am I doing In The Pits?
I did not think it took away from enjoying the book and relating to it.
Actually I think it presents a funny slice of life from time gone by.
Erma Bombeck was funny in the 70's and she is funny today.
If Life Is a Bowl Of Cherries, What Am I Doing In The Pits tickled my funny bone and touched my heart.
A Biography of Erma Bombeck.
It was nice to take a trip back to the seventies with Erma Bombeck.
Being the first book I've read by her, I didn't realize that she could be inspirationally serious at times such as in the last chapter.
I liked her observations on sports reporting how no one wins a game they always hammer, outscore, bomb, run over, etc.Rather than give away all her punchlines I recommend this book to the younger generation who are curious of what it was like to live in the seventies.
And I'm sure I will pick up more of Bombeck's books for those times when I need a little stress relief.
When I was a little girl staying with my grandparents, after my cousins went home and there was no more playing Payday or that weird soccer game where your fingers are the players' legs, I would need to read (I was a very nerdy child).
My options were the Bible, Sidney Sheldon, or this book.
Obviously, I picked the Bible.
Of course, I haven't actually read this book since I was approximately 10 years old, but I give it four stars for memory's sake.
This book reads like one.It is a collection of humourous stories without chronological order or any order whatsoever about family life from the perspective of an overworked, overstressed mum.
The story titled "When Did I Become the Mother and the Mother Become the Child?" really got me thinking about my parents and how they are getting older and I have to insist with them to do their yearly medical checkups and how I worry if they are eating right..., never thought I would see this day but here it is and it's so sad.
Okay, I admit to being an Erma fan.
I inherited several of her paperbacks when a friend of mine moved over seas and left several boxes of her books with me.
I remembered reading this one as a teen, but it always seemed like something my mom would be interested in.
I guess it took age and the ability to reflect back on those decades to appreciate her work.
As her work progressed, some of it even became rather poignant (I Want to Grow up...) Every once in a while I find myself quoting something I read in her books.
We are to read a book each month with a different angle.
January's assignment was to read a book published in the year you were born (for me, 1978).
Someone recommended Erma Bombeck, since she wrote humor based on being a mother and housewife.
Apparently, these were a type of shoe in the 70s, but when I read something along the lines of "gold wedgies lying on the staircase," I was stumped.
There was a chapter near the end that read like a forward from my mother-in-law, too.
Guess I'll at least know who Bombeck is if she ever comes up?
I remember reading this book a long time ago, probably in college.
Now, reading it as a wife and mother, I loved it.
Husbands still snore, kids and families still drive us crazy and the debate over working mom vs.
stay at home mom still goes on 30+ years later.
I found myself laughing and nodding my head through out most of the book as I have experienced many of the things that she brings up.
I know that my favorite part of the book was the poem " I Loved you Enough".
I may just have to print that out and save it for my kids when they are older.

Loved Erma Bombeck...My mother and I to this day can quote her verbatim. She's provided us hours of entertainment. It was like losing a family member when she passed. RIP Erma, I'm sure you've got them laughing somewhere else!
I found this in a stack of books someone gave me for the book shop. Have always enjoyed Bombeck and this was no different. I may have read this before but still had a good time with it.
Not as funny as I remember from reading Mrs. Bombeck years ago. I did get a few chuckles though, and it is worth the read if only for being a 1970's time capsule. Also, the last chapter was priceless.
Read this as a child. For some reason my mother had a case of these books. I recall it as funny and sometimes baffling. Curious to re-read and see what I think now that I'm an adult. I think reading Erma Bombeck shaped my idea of humor and writing though. I remember just reading and re-reading her work and trying to figure it out.
Bombeck has a gift for making us laugh at the things that would otherwise make us throw our hands up and walk away.
I think every mom should have at least one of her books hanging around the house for those days when we really just need to check out and have a good laugh.
And the bonus is that we might be able to laugh at the things that are putting us in our bad place to begin with.
I highly recommend it to all moms.
Bombeck was the favorite humorous essayist of both my mother and my aunt (Bombeck died in 1996).I wouldn't think of badmouthing the woman. She was a brilliant humorist, and had the storytelling gift in full measure. If I personally always preferred Jean Kerr (who, like me, was definitely NOT a 'morning person'), I'm not blind to Bombeck's often wicked invective, tempered by a not quite unfailing compassion.I can see why my aunt and my mother like her--their own storytelling styles are often similar.
The first book that I ever finished reading.I was 12 years old then and about to start my new life in high school.My puberty years.Time when not-so-childish-not-so-mature ideas clashes with parents.I begun laughing upon starting on its pages and end up cryin...."I love you enough to say NO even if you'll HATE me for itand that what HURTS the most."From that time on,I never got hurt when mom says NO!
I remember reading this from my mom's bookshelves a long time ago, and when I saw it at the library, I picked it up for a fun, quick read. Written in the early 80s, it's fun to see how different (and how much the same) life is/was for mothers. Some of it is universal, and other sections are very much 30 years ago. But the parts that she writes on parenting (and being married) are so funny, I found myself laughing out loud at parts, and getting misty at others. Recommended.
[May 2017 book group selection] I remember my mom had this book when I was young, and I imagine it was extremely funny in the 70s when it was written. 40ish years later it seemed somewhat dated to me - quite a few references to people I'm not familiar with and everyday things that are seldom used anymore. There were still some funny parts as well as a few worthwhile insights at the end, but overall not a classic that has stood the test of time...at least for me.
One review said that every wife and mother should read this book. I think every daughter should too, if only to get some insight on what lies ahead. (And, of course, to pick up little tips like "green is not a happy color" when it comes to food.) Erma Bombeck talks about everything with such wit and candor, not to mention comedy. When I was little, my mom used to read the "funny parts" to my sister and me. Once I was a little older, I read the entire book, and still couldn't stop laughing.
I found this book to be uneven. Some stories I really enjoyed while others I didn't. I am amazed at how some issues or themes continue to prevail even after all these years. Such as children leaving their wet towels on the floor or a parent calling their child by the wrong name (which was probably my favorite story in the book as well). She has some great lines in the book as well such as her son "staring into the refrigerator waiting for something to embrace him."
My favorite of Bombeck's books. I haven't read it in 20 years, but certain turns of phrase, passages, even whole stories are so clear in my memory. Even with my familiarity with the material, it still made me laugh out loud. Let's face it, motherhood is funny and insane in pretty much the same way now that it always has been.
A re-read from my favorite columnist ever, Erma "spoke" to me from the time I was a teenager about the age of her daughter and we bought prom dress the same week. I read her books as a newlywed in the 70's and as a new mom. Remembering what life was like before cell phones, computers, and dvd's was a joy. I miss this warm, kind and funny lady!
100th book of 2015!-----Erma Bombeck is hilarious in an easy way. This book was written in the 70's, and it's still hilarious, and still timely. There are very few moments where you realize how times have changed. Unless you're wondering why she doesn't mention her children's Twitter accounts. So so great.
This is one lady I really miss!!! I have read all of her books and probably 3 times each! You don't get funnier, more real, and more touching then her stories. It makes you feel like you are hearing the confidences and real life fiascos of your best girl friend!
Erma Bombeck is my hero. She is funny and smart and absolutely wonderful. She is funny without being mean and just a wonderful observer of people and family. I love re-reading her work when I need a boost. In my opinion, everyone can read it -- but a mother gets so much more out of it!
How can we have EVERYTHING as we do in America, and still be so depressed and downtrodden? Although these are older books, they are still very pertinent today. Besides getting a laugh, you will love her in your face style which questions just what we as women should find important.
Loved it. All around funny. Good get away from reality reading
Fun to read something older! Brought back memories of back in the day!
I thought that this book was funny when I had read it as a teen. I think that I was a weird kid sometimes...
She was a funny lady...
I know many of you have not heard of Erma, but she is not to be missed. Crazy funny.
