https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1380834.De_avonden
‘The potatoes are very good,’ her mother said making prolonged eye contact with me.
In this instance, more than any of the others, it appears as though it is Frits' intention to provoke his friend into doing something drastic, into perhaps harming himself or someone else; and I think this gives an indication as to what is underlying his cruel behaviour.If one lives a humdrum existence, one that promises no excitement or stimulation, if your conversations are banal, and your environment is drab and wearisome, then it makes sense that one would look to enliven it all somehow, to create for yourself some of the excitement that is lacking.
Per offrire una prospettiva bisogna in primo luogo vederne una, e poi: è questo il mio specifico compito?»Io credo di no, che non sia questo lo specifico compito di uno scrittore.E tuttavia, e per la prima volta faccio questa riflessione di fronte a uno dei tanti libri deprimenti che mi capita di leggere: nichilismo e cinismo insieme, miscelati con tale cupezza, sono troppo anche per me.
(*) Ma questo potrebbe essere un mio personalissimo limite.La cosa peggiore invece è che il libro a un certo punto (molto presto, devo dire) diventa piuttosto noioso e ripetitivo.
(Nearly 3.5) This Dutch novel from 1947 appears in English translation for the first time.
Twenty-three-year-old Frits van Egters lives with his parents, works at an office job, and spends his evenings wandering the streets of Amsterdam and visiting friends and relatives.
His ennui comes through clearly in these 10 chapters set at the end of December 1946.
Anyone who has been stuck in a dead-end job, living with their parents in their mid-twenties, will sympathize with Frits’s situation.
Luckily, the final chapter, set on New Year’s Eve, ends strongly.

A Dutch novel! Don't see too many of those around. This from 1947 and counting as a sort of classic. A bit too '47 for my tastes, but certainly worth an afternoon of your reading pleasure. I suspect even a bit more humorous than what its reputation is likely to suggest. _________as Friend Nate D reminds :: 1947 Dutch masterpiece finally sees itself into English.On its way in its very own English'ing by Sam Garrett.http://www.complete-review.com/saloon...TRANZ=late pleaZe!! Thank you!And Lydia Davis likes it too ::http://www.complete-review.com/saloon...
None of those other blurbs and reviews about boredom and comedy prepared me for the horrible creeping dread that underlies all of this. This moves and fails to move in all kinds of amusing rhythms and digressions, but the humor is, at heart, very dark. And there's a weight to the malaise that more recent literatures of ennui are less able to invoke. It's 1947, Europe is restored to reason. It's 1947, and no one will ever really recover. Brilliant and imperceptibly devastating.
This is really not a me book.
My initial impression as I started reading this is that it reminded me heavily of Kafka's Metamorphosis.
Unfortunately for me, this did not change as the story went on.
I know others love this, but not me.
Fritz lives with his mother and father.
He goes through the day detailing his every action, which if you want to know how people lived is great, but for entertainment value is as about exciting as watching paint dry.
Clearly a classic, and beloved by many, I really believe if you are a fan of Metamorphosis that you'll enjoy this book, too.
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/tOJT0pNRY9g
Set over the last ten evenings of December 1946, the protagonist Frits van Egters is 23, living at home with his parents, while working in a humdrum job: I work in an office.
"It is growing all crooked, like a plant to the light, mark my words." "Oh, he's just talking to hear himself speak." said Joosje's mother.Not that the parents are any better: going out for a night drinking with Frits, leaving their year-old child unattended (when asked what would happen if there was a fire, they respond that that would count as force majeure, and hopefully the smoke would likely get him before the flames).Another pre-occupation is other's education and professions, which he typically ridicules, although this hints at one of his own deep-set insecurities.
This book starts off, goes on and finishes in precisely one way...soporifically.
A 23 year old man lives with his parents, sleeps, dreams, eats, works and has conversations which come across as exchanges of particularly unexciting, pointless and uninteresting anecdotes.
I'm all about reading internationally, but if this is really the best Dutch novel of all time, it just makes me sad for the state of Dutch literature.
It isn't just that he writes about nothing, it's that he writes about nothing in a way you wouldn't want to read it.
Only suitable for sleeping aid.
It has an unusual opening that gripped my attention.The level of detail of the humdrum nature of home life built up an atmosphere of boredom very effectively.I was impressed with how realistic some of the descriptions were, eg the incident where Frits is reminiscing with his brother about events from their childhood, and how their memories differ.Reve, in this novel, is very good at describing the mundanities of life.
As we are taken through the 10 evenings that are described in the book, we build up a more detailed picture of the narrator, his family and acquaintances, and life in Amsterdam at the time the book is set, December 1946.Having read the novel, I understand why it has been listed in the 10 favourite Dutch novels of all time.
Reve maakt van de nietsheid van alledag 'iets': een verhaal dat kwelt, bedrukt en het leven in zijn afgrijselijke naaktheid toont.
De eindeloze avonden met de ouders, die zonder dromen leven en de banaliteit van het bestaan omarmen.
Frits van Egters, een jongen met genoeg verstand om zich te realiseren dat zijn leven mislukt is, maar met te weinig verstand om er wat van te maken, is de tragische hoofdpersoon in dit verhaal.
Het is niet alleen het verhaal van een jongen die niets meemaakt: het is het verhaal van het leven dat nergens toe leidt.
Il libro racconta le ultime dieci sere del 1946 di Fritz van Egters, il giovane protagonista, che – 
We don't have any information about how he spent the war years but we do know that, instead of picking up his studies where he'd been forced to suspend them and looking for a new way of life, he is living with his parents and has an undemanding and uninteresting office job.
We follow him through Christmas and New Year, out and about town and at home, hear his sarcastic comments to others and share his self-pitying thoughts, watch his little acts of meanness and spitefulness.
We just have to hope he gets his act together.
Il protagonista è deliziosamente cinico e politicamente scorretto. Racconta aneddoti assurdi, non ha peli sulla lingua, prende per il culo la gente con invidiabile nonchalance. Però dopo cinquanta pagine di cazzeggi, storielle e dettagliatissimi resoconti onirici (io odio quando nei libri raccontano i sogni) ho cominciato ad annoiarmi; ho resistito ancora un centinaio di pagine, ma poi ho mollato considerando che ero solo a metà e mi sembrava di leggere sempre lo stesso capitolo.Una cosa interessante però l’ho scoperta: Gerard Reve era un gran figo
Het ergste is wel, dat ik geloof dat er ook in onze tijd, aardig wat jonge mensen zijn die net zo een slepend, uitzichtloos leven lijden als de hoofdpersoon.De bronnen van entertainment zijn tegenwoordig een stuk minder schaars dan in de jaren '50, waarin met name in dit boek de radio het grootste medium voor vermaak was.
Ook kunnen wij ons, op een saai moment, vermaken door naar mensen die net als ons zijn, alleen dan wat zieliger, te kijken op tv of internet terwijl er een heel groepje van hen samengestopt zit in één huis.
My shoes have rubber soles.""Are rubber soles that cold then?" the old woman asked."They are when you have sweaty feet," Frits said, "then you have to place your shoes behind the stove each night and hang your socks over the pipe.
No, it's nothing, I think.""That is a problem," said the old lady, "I'm pleased I don't have that.""In the summer, the most comfortable thing is to wear sandals with no socks," Frits continued, "then all your problems are over.""Are your feet very cold at the moment?" she asked."Oh, nothing serious," he replied.
Normalmente lo que sucede en este tipo de novelas es que el protagonista pasa por una experiencia que lo saca (aunque sea momentáneamente) de la rutina en la que vive, pero en ‘Las noches’ no pasa absolutamente nada.
La novela sucede en las últimas 10 noches del año y narra exclusivamente los momentos de ocio de la vida de Frits, que normalmente ocurren durante la noche, cuando vuelve a casa de trabajar.
A veces la novela parece una colección de diálogos para besugos (o sea, conversaciones insustanciales y repetitivas), porque cuando Frits se encuentra con otra persona no soporta quedarse sin decir nada, que la conversación se estanque, así que siempre acaban hablando de chorradas.
Uit de kast geplukt toen ik zag dat enkele Nederlandse diehards de laatste 10 dagen van het jaar elke avond consequent een hoofdstukje lazen en het NRC er zelfs een luisterversie aan koppelde.Helaas liep ik zelf stevige vertraging op. Het leven is hier net wat tumultueuzer dan dat van de 23-jarige kantoorklerk Frits van Egters, maar ik heb 'oudejaarsavond' dan toch mooi op een eerder grijze zondagmiddag van 3 januari om 16u42 afgeklokt!Fijn nog eens te herlezen, maar 'jaarlijks' is toch meer iets voor fundi's.
Rather, adversities, both large and small, shall ennoble us.”The violence of imagination is peppered with philosophic inquiries as Fritz thinks of this and that, makes grandiose statements to himself, uses religious tone (without any pomposity) to allay the sorrows of the world (like the clumsy actions of his mother), observes the passage of time, questions the nature of his days and so on.“It is no disaster, to be unhappy,” Frits thought, “but how discouraging must it be to know that there is nothing to pin the blame on, outside oneself?
Time and dreams collide to form an external world through which Fritz lives out a mildly stimulating life.
I read almost half of Gerard Reve's The Evenings before abandoning it. I would have given up sooner, but I had read that the tome was voted the favourite book of The Netherlands, and wanted to give it the benefit of the doubt. The idea at the novel's core was interesting, but I did find it rather repetitive after a while, and quite difficult to get into. I'm unsure as to whether this was due to a translation issue, or something else. There is nothing really wrong with The Evenings; it just wasn't my particular cup of tea.
Ik snap waarom mensen dit een goed boek vinden: Reve beschrijft het alledaagse op zo'n manier dat het interessant is en met een beetje goede wil zijn de perikelen zelfs vermakelijk. Maar ik vond het boek toch vooral saai, langdradig en gewoonweg niet boeiend, met onbeduidende personages en dialogen waar ik me dood aan ergerde. Blij dat ik m uit heb! Artikel over onder andere dit boek: http://thebookreview.nl/the-book-life...
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/22/bo...
Maar is het ook nu nog leesbaar of heeft dit boek zijn pensioengerechtigde leeftijd bereikt?Frits van Egters woont bij zijn ouders (aan wie hij zich ergert), heeft een soort van baan en gaat wel eens uit, maar niets schenkt hem voldoening en vreugde is hem vreemd.
Het gaat slecht, verder gaat het goed…maar wat moeten we daarmee!?Opvallend is verder nog dat in een boek geschreven in 1947 de oorlog amper aan bod komt, behalve dan dat Frits daardoor ooit een herexamen niet hoefde af te leggen.
Over De Avonden kan je vanalles zeggen maar niet dat het onopgemerkt is voorbijgegaan.
Translated from Dutch this novel tells of ten days in the life of Frits van Egters.
He is an oddity, Living with his parents he lies in bed each morning, he unsocialbly eats green pickled herrings and brown onions, turns the radio on when it’s not welcome and off when it is.
He has strange dreams that verge on nightmares then wakes the next morning and starts again.First published in 1947 there is a darkness to the plotless novel that symbolises family life at the time, with boredom as it’s key concept.
‘Everything we’ll be better next year’, Frits tells himself and his family.
DNFIf this story had been half as enticing as the cover it would have been a stunner. Briefly,  The Evenings  is a meandering shopping list of the mundane, blandly verbalised by some chap called Fritz who appears to have no discernible purpose than recount the uneventfulness of his winter evenings.I wouldn’t be surprised if this book offers some phenomenal life-altering message that my impoverished intelligence simply couldn’t grasp. But I’m afraid its relentless stream of aimless wittering offe
The Evenings
is a meandering shopping list of the mundane, blandly verbalised by some chap called Fritz who appears to have no discernible purpose than recount the uneventfulness of his winter evenings.I wouldn’t be surprised if this book offers some phenomenal life-altering message that my impoverished intelligence simply couldn’t grasp.
But I’m afraid its relentless stream of aimless wittering offered little appeal.
As I won this book in a Twitter competition I must say huge thanks to the publisher for providing the copy.
I’m just sorry the book and I didn’t hit it off as I’d hoped we would.
This book is supposed to be a classic, in the top ten favorites of Dutch literature.
I have read other books by Dutch authors that are incredible, amazing, etc.
This one was not one of themThe book info says: "Twenty-three-year-old Frits - office worker, daydreamer, teller of inappropriate jokes - finds life absurd and inexplicable.
He lives with his parents, who drive him mad.
Sometimes he talks to a toy rabbit."All I can say about it is that I found it as dull as the life the main character leads.
I received an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.
The hilarity is all in the language, which by some miracle of translation flows directly into English, rattling with ecclesiastical echoes.To wield Dutch, Reve believed a writer needed to absorb the Statenbijbel, the Netherlands’ equivalent of the King James Bible, that was published in 1637.
Also worth mentioning is Tim Parks's review in The Guardian – which is what prompted me to read this book in the first place.
Arguably the most pointless book I've ever read, and I absolutely loved it. Frits lives at home with his parents, who irritate him immeasurably, and obsseses about baldness, between fiddling with the radio, leafing idly through books and visiting his friends, which then causes him anxiety about maintaining conversations. Nothing of any note happens, but his life is laid so open, what's created is both hilarious and heroic. A genuine joy, and a searing look at the emptiness of life, as relevant today as it was when it was written seventy years ago. Majestic.
‘‘Tom te tom tom, tom te tom.’ zong Frits in zichzelf, ‘het gaat slecht, verder gaat het goed.’’De obligate eindejaars-herlezing van De Avonden stelt nooit teleur.
Gestaag werkt hij toe naar het hoogtepunt (of dieptepunt?): het laatste hoofdstuk, met de schrijnende oudejaarsavond.
De ultieme treurnis vertalen in een eenvoudige fles sap is zo geniaal dat ze keer op keer naar de keel grijpt.
Er stond een fles met donkerrode vloeistof.
Hij nam de fles bij de hals op.
‘Bessen-appel,’ zei hij bij zichzelf, ‘bessen-appel.
‘Het is gezien,’ mompelde hij, ‘het is niet onopgemerkt gebleven.’Hij strekte zich uit en viel in een diepe slaap.’
