https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38474.Another_Country
It was fitting that I read Another Country while camped out under the air conditioner or sweltering in the park or seeking solace by the ocean.
What if there was no such thing as “gay” or “straight?” What if you think you’re just so free and so bohemian in your middle-class apartment with your two kids and your husband’s fat paycheck and then it all comes crashing down?What if you never realize who you’re in love with until it’s too late?This book got under my skin.
And I loved every uncomfortable and unbearable moment of it.Best book I've read all year.
From Paris to Greenwich Village and Harlem, love traverses boundaries, inflames souls, manipulates the vulnerable, and burns each person who comes near its flames.
By now, my close GoodReads friends know about my reading love affair with Baldwin, so I'll try to encapsulate the elation I feel when I savor his words.
In If Beale Street Could Talk he rendered pain vivid; in The Fire Next Time, he warmed me, and in Notes of a Native Son, which I plan to read again soon, he gave me perspective.In Another Country, he makes me ponder the profundity of love's role in self-angst, self-loathe.
It’s the late fifties in New York and Another Country begins following the ineffaceable Rufus Scott.
He’s a jazz musician whose luck seems to have run out.
From there the story of Another Country unfolds in three parts to uncover artists on their journey to survive life among racial unrest, misguided friendships, vacillating sexuality, societal pressures, and all while discovering a myriad of unlikable, flawed characters.Another Country is a slow burn of a story that will suck you in and keep you hooked.
It’s not a story of plot.
It is a novel which is purely character development.
I am appalled that it took me so long to read Baldwin, but I am gradually correcting my outrageous neglect of this important author.
This character-driven book is about a group of authors, musicians, actors and a few others who come together in New York City.
There is a staccato rhythm to this book.
Although it is not plot-driven, the book moves along very quickly.
Baldwin was a master observer.
The book ended abruptly and I really wanted to know what happened next to these people.The narration by Dion Graham of the audiobook was excellent.

He certainly has a way with words, beautiful, almost aggressively lyrical without ever being showy; but what his words do have is weight, an almost unbearable density that in some passages seem to weigh so heavily upon the skin, as if their sole purpose is to rip to shreds any layers of resistance, pick apart any and every last defense...Really, I suppose that's as good a description as any of what Baldwin does to his characters; he flays them alive so their intangible insides—their hopes, fears, secrets, contradictions, prejudices, dreams—are splayed unceremoniously upon dirty Greenwich Village sidewalks and greasy tables in the smoky corners of dive bars for each other to see, to gawk at, to pick ruthlessly at, to take up and wield like weapons to destroy each other, to bind each other closer than ever before...And to take it one step further—the title kind of demands as much—the same could be said about Baldwin's general examination of America: mercilessly yet lovingly (the oh-so-thin line separating love from hate is a reoccurring preoccupation throughout the book) ripping the American psyche apart.
Such an excellent novel. This is Baldwin's Ulysses. A cast of genius and memorable characters, impeccable prose, and such relentless realism makes this the brilliant novel that it is. Baldwin has outdone himself by writing this novel. Just flawless.
Despite the plot’s brief sojourn to France, I am left with the feeling that the city of New York, more so than any of the characters, is the primary, motivating force of the work; even more so than the character from the first section who links the others.With its frank depictions of sexuality (never seeming gratuitous), the casual use of marijuana and themes that have remained relevant, I had to keep reminding myself this was published in the very early 60s.
The first chapter is what makes this book: 88 pages of astonishing sadness, the amazing elucidation of the painful psyche of main character Rufus and could easily be a standalone novella/short story in Baldwin's remarkable oeuvre; perhaps one of the best short stories about the human psyche I've come across so far.
This chapter sets up for what's to follow; more pain, more self-analysis of what it means to be of color, what it means to loathe the opposite or the oppressor, to loathe yourself for who you are and what you are and what you're attracted to, but to accept it, warily, each day until you take your last breath.
“But it was only love which could accomplish the miracle of making a life bearable—only love, and love itself mostly failed …”Have you ever had somebody tell you something, something secret and maybe a bit shocking but at the same time familiar and it makes you see them for who they are and that brings up these tender feelings for them that you didn’t know you had and after that you look at them and yourself and the whole world differently?
The world’s already bitter enough, we got to try to be better than the world.”
Ricordo una lettura sicuramente molto interessante ma anche un'impressione non proprio piacevole; probabilmente per le vicende raccontate, e ancora di più per il tono generale.Tutti i personaggi ruotano in qualche modo intorno al mondo culturale newyorkese, in particolare al Greenwich Village.
Assolutamente centrale la dimensione razziale, vividamente percepita da tutti i personaggi, che alimenta un continuo conflitto – ora latente ora esplicito – tra bianchi e coloured (è la parola usata da Baldwin), non senza una ambigua, violenta attrazione, mista di sensualità e disprezzo.
Anzi con un oscuro bisogno di degradare, avvilire, abbassare, disprezzare, ed essere degradati e disprezzati; quindi in tutto il romanzo serpeggia una latente o esplicita violenza.
200pp read. Fed up. Fed and up. Enough of this popular-classic pootling. I am planning a triumphant return to the brave and beautiful borders of the avant-garde. I will be raiding the archives of the following pioneers: Soft Skull, Dzanc Books, Green Integer, Coffee House Press, David R. Godine, NYRB, New Directions, FC2 and—all together now!—Dalkey Archive. I cordially invite you to leave the names of any daring experimental fiction presses that have escaped my attention in the comment box, and help me to shape a reading list of past and present adventures in innovation. Baldwin was a bore.
"Nobody – no man and no woman – is precisely what they think they are. Love is where you find it. And you don’t know where it will carry you. And it's a terrifying thing. Love - it’s the only human possibility but it’s terrifying. […]If you can’t love anybody you are dangerous because you’ve no way of learning humility." Excerpt from an interview with James Baldwin. Source: Youtube Although this interview wasn’t specifically related to Another Country I felt what James Baldwin said there summar
Source: Youtube Although this interview wasn’t specifically related to Another Country I felt what James Baldwin said there summarizes the book quite well.It’s a story about a group of friends looking for their true selves and for true love in a place evolving so quickly and in a time when everything was changing so fast – New York city in the late 1950s - that they were constantly lost.
So it’s not far away and still relevant.I may never grasp what being black means but this little bit that Baldwin gives me is a piece that helps keep the mind open to different realities than mine.
I had really enjoyed reading Baldwin’s Giovanni’s Room which was compact and excellently crafted in my opinion, so I was a bit disappointed that I did not find this one not so compelling.
Oh the writing is crafty but not so compact as Giovanni’s Room, so this created gaps of boredom at my end.
Much is dated, but that's okay for readers such as I, with anthropological tendencies, i.e., old Times Square hustler argot, 50s slang -- but AC also fills in the gaps, it shows how thing were done then, the whites who went to (gasp!), private negro jazz improvs, 50s publishing circles, etc.The structure as mentioned, is innovative: the loss of a person seen through a cast of characters who run the gamut; literarary, successful, unsuccessful, rich, poor, black, white, gay, straight, priviledged, unprivileged.
He is just a very profound, poetic writer in this one, one who goes WAY down in the soul, roots around and does NOT necessarily find the answers.
I love Baldwin's writing style, but this novel has been in my bathroom (read: "library") for months, and I'm only making progress a few pages at a time.
I was curious about a novel featuring mostly white characters--and it's very well-written, but I have had some trouble engaging over the long term.
Like the author, there were times I fell out of engagement with it and put it down for a while...the characters do get "talky"...but then when I came back to it, I inhaled it.
If you've overlooked this novel by James Baldwin, it is worth reading.
This book embarrasses any number of writers who think themselves serious in matters of love, sex, poverty, art, or race--I'm not going to name names, but both sides of the Atlantic have in recent years given us writers who think that the upper-middle class satisfy all confrontations on these matters, whether as artist of subject matter.
Baldwin possesses a degree of integrity that would be laughable were it not so grounded both in subject matter as well as quality of writing.
It is only as Baldwin's survivors coalesce around love and friendship--against race-baiting, suicide, and artistic failure and frustration--that their several places and paths lay claim to their forefront space in a better America.
Baldwin!A most magnificent novel of human emotion, disoriented spirit, love, honor, passion, and sorrow. Baldwin, once again, took readers into that place where the senses are pushed into overdrive. His ability to paint the portraits of Rufus, Vivaldo, Ida, Richard, Cass, Eric, Ellis, and a half dozen or so others, in the most vivid of colors, is testimony to the brilliance of Baldwin and remains, in my opinion, virtually unmatched. Five stars is hardly enough. Highly recommended to anyone who wants to experience the truth of the human saga.
Ida is actually Rufus' chief hagiographer - calling the girlfriend a crazy cracker/bitch who ruined a great man.
In an interview with Audre Lorde, Baldwin draws a distinction between 'responsibility' and 'fault' - a black man in America who commits an offense is responsible but not at fault.
He speaks over Lorde, saying: "How can you be so sentimental as to blame the Black man for a situation which has nothing to do with him?" He also says that the 'only' crime in America is to be born a black male - "It's not like being a woman." OIC.
The foundations of Another Country.First I’d like to express my deep regret and shock at my prolonged neglect of such an important author and also my absolute delight at having finally reconciled that with such a fantastic first dive into Baldwin’s extensive catalogue of work.
It follows an ensemble of Liberal artists searching for love and meaning in a world that really wasn’t offering them much.The first 80 pages of this book are golden.
What does it mean to be a man of colour?
To hate and love your oppressor simultaneously?
To hate yourself for loving your oppressor?
2/5starsdisclaimer i skim read this and only really read important sections because i'm ovERWHELMED BY SCHOOL READING AND THAT'S THE PRICE THAT HAS TO BE PAID WHEN I HAVE TO READ 4-5 BOOKS A WEEK OKAY
I don't know if I will ever be able to manage a proper review for Baldwin's "Another Country".
If "uncomfortable" could be used as a compliment, I would start my review exclaiming "What an uncomfortable book!""Giovanni's Room", my first book by Baldwin, had already introduced me to the complexity of his themes, and "Another Country" took this complexity to a whole new level.
Color, sexual identity, fear, discrimination, violence that breeds even more violence, hatred, uncertainty, social pressure, guilt, infidelity and love in all its dimensions are among the themes presented to us by Baldwin.
These themes are presented without judgment, leaving the role of assessment and drawing of conclusions to the readers.
Perhaps now, though, he had hit bottom. One thing about the bottom, he told himself, you can't fall any farther. He tried to take comfort from this thought. Yet there knocked in his heart the suspicion that the bottom did not really exist."I'd like to prove to her—one day," he said; and paused. He looked out of the window. "I'd like to make her know that the world's not as black as she thinks it is.""Or," she said, dryly, after a moment, "as white." Previous to Another Country, all my Baldwin w
The work doesn't feel as anachronistic as it did when I started, but still: multiple characters careening over landscapes of fucking and cheating and exiling and killing in a half serious, half soap opera fashion is not a Baldwin I'm familiar with.
The character in question was hardly silent, but there is a world of difference between hearing one speak and coming so close to a persona as to let the admittance of having participated in a gang rape take on the note of necessary confession.
Set in 1960s New York City bohemia, “Another Country” cuts into the white liberal psyche and reveals the destruction that benevolent racist actions cause to blacks.
It also tells stories of how blacks cope with internalized racism, the desire to love whites, and the violence they find themselves committing against them.
Somewhere in hiss heart Vivaldo had feared and hated Rufus because he was black” (134).Again, Vivaldo reflects, this time on his relationship with Ida: “Perhaps she loved him, perhaps she did: but if she did, how was it, then, that they remained so locked away from one another?
This time it's a fictional story centered around the character Rufus, an African American homosexual saxophone player and his friends.
The rest of the book focuses on Rufus' friends' and sister's general relationship problems.
There was a lot of dialog between the characters, so the size of the book became less intimidating.
I enjoyed Baldwin's writing, despite the fact that the book felt a bit "plot-less".
But there's definitely substance in the topics that Baldwin addresses through his characters' problems.
Overall, it was fun to read this and I would definitely recommend it for readers who have not yet read Baldwin's writing.
[...]not unless you're willing to ask yourself how you'd have made it, if they dumped on you what they dumped on Rufus. And you can't ask yourself that question because there's no way in the world for you to know what Rufus went through, not in this world, not as long as you're white. Πρόκειται για ένα επικό Νεοϋορκέζικο μυθιστόρημα με υπεραφθονία θεμάτων (η αγάπη, η τιμή της αγάπης, η αυτοχειρία, οι φυλετικές και σεξουαλικές διακρίσεις της δεκαετίας του '50-'60) και χωρίς ιδιαίτερα καίρια πλοκ
Πρόκειται για ένα επικό Νεοϋορκέζικο μυθιστόρημα με υπεραφθονία θεμάτων (η αγάπη, η τιμή της αγάπης, η αυτοχειρία, οι φυλετικές και σεξουαλικές διακρίσεις της δεκαετίας του '50-'60) και χωρίς ιδιαίτερα καίρια πλοκή, με σχόλια πάνω στη φυλή, τη σεξουαλικότητα, το φύλο, ικανά να πλουτίσουν ακόμη και την πιο επίπεδη εξέλιξη της διήγησης.
Μέσα από το ποτό, τη μοιχεία, τις σεξουαλικές ανασφάλειες, τις νυχτερινές περιπλανήσεις, τις σχέσεις με τηλεοπτικούς παραγωγούς για χάρη της ανάδειξης του όποιου ταλέντου, ο Baldwin κεντράρει το φακό του κατεξοχήν στο ρατσισμό και τη διάκριση και καθιστά πρόδηλο ότι ανεξάρτητα από τη φυλή, το φύλο, το σεξουαλικό προσανατολισμό, την κοινωνική επιφάνεια, όλοι αγαπούν, μισούν κι υποφέρουν με τον ίδιο τρόπο.
On the short list of best books I've ever read.
The book feels more "true" to me than almost any I have read, not necessarily because of what happens, but because of how truthfully and clearly the experience of life is rendered.
James Baldwin is one of the best writers America has ever produced, and I don't know why people don't mention him with Hemingway, Steinbeck, and Fitzgerald.
He does not obsess, like Philip Roth, nor limit his scope to cold reportage, like Hemingway, but instead shows us--through the affective tone of the prose and the story--how to feel.
This is the third novel I have read by James Baldwin.
I know his voice now and it is a voice filled with pain, emotion, and a kind of realism about the sorrows of man and woman, black and white, gay and straight, art and commerce.
That is a wide spectrum but he manages to encompass it all with great doses of truth and grace.Reading it last week while Black churches burned and gays were given Supreme Court sanction to marry across the land, it was hard to fathom how long it takes for a society to change.
Baldwin published this book 53 years ago!
I've just watched the historic debate between James Baldwin versus William F. Buckley Jr. at Cambridge University in 1965. Baldwin's eloquent speech reminded me that I really have to start reading his work. Most impressive.
Normálně neholduji literatuře, která ve své době způsobila poprask.
Ale normálně taky nepíšu recenze když si čistím zuby, ale dneska udělám výjimku.
Například Rufus a jeho sestra Ida. Jelikož bylo tehdy ještě brzo na hip hop, tak Rufus je jazzový bubeník - opět pro neznalého Pražáka: jezdí hrát jazz do Prahy Bubenče - a jeho mladší sestra je zpěvačka.
Hlavní téma knihy jsou mezilidské vztahy.
Tady okořeněné o vztahy mezi černošáři a bělošáři a o bisexuální hrátky.
A to prej bylo v šedesátých letech tabu.
Víte jak se řekne francouzsky tabu?
Patos se naštěstí šel během psaní někam projít a tak za mne 9/10.
