https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9591398-the-girl-who-circumnavigated-fairyland-in-a-ship-of-her-own-making
I walked into the bookstore in a bit of a mood.
The truth is I walked into the bookstore furious at the world.
I am prone to dark moods, and when I'm in the middle of one, I tend to rumble through the world like an angry old-testament god.
"I want to read something good," I said.
"I'll read anything if it's good," I said.
Five pages into this book, I thought, "Why didn't I read this years ago?
This is the best book I've read all year.
And I read a *lot* of books.
I look forward to reading this book to my little boy.
WINNER: BESTest, BRILLIANTest, most EXCELLENTest, YA Novel in HistorYA!!!  I know, I know, that comes as a bit of a shocker, what with Potter, Percy and those Hunger Gamers running from all those Sparkly Emos and bumping into Bartimaeus hiding inside His Dark Materials waiting for some Giver of an Abhorsen to find their Wrinkle in Time to send them all back to Wonderland. Not to mention that AMAZO Genesis I read earlier this year (sorry I couldn't work it in above). However, despite all of those
However, despite all of those "mostly" special literary achievements, this story by Ms. Valente and her amazing protagonist September has more concentrated WUP (win units per page) than any other “too young to vote” fiction I have ever read.
The writing, humor, plot, narrative voice, characters, imagination and respect for the reader that this gem of a book shows is something rare and very, very special.
A young girl in Nebraska gets taken by the Green Wind and his companion, the Leopard of Little Breezes, to Fairyland for an unforgettable adventure.
The story has a way of making you feel like a younger version of yourself as you read it.
This is a cute and whimsical story of a pre-teen Nebraska girl September (born in May, actually) who eagerly leaves the world where her father is fighting in a war and her mother is building airplanes, and sets out for Fairyland.
Along the way, September meets the aforementioned Wyverary, a wish-granting Marid, the evil Marquess, spoonless witches, queenless soap golem, migrating velocipedes, and a jacket that is eager to please, among others.
Such lonely, lost things you find on your way.
........................My review for the second September book, The Girl Who Fell Beneath Fairyland and Led the Revels There, is over here, by the way.
Rating: 3.5 starsThis was so imaginative and whimsical, it is certainly a fun read with wonderful characters. I found it to lag a little in the middle, so it a slower read despite the length of the book.
Valente perhaps pokes fun at times, but always gently: "you will either perish most painfully or be forced to sit through a very tedious tea service with several spinster hamadryads."  The heroine is a bit unconventional but not exactly drowning in misery: "she washed the same pink-and-yellow teacups and matching gravy boats every day, slept on the same embroidered pillow" and had a mother "bending over a stubborn airplane engine in her work overalls, her arm muscles bulging." Right there, you know it won't be traditional, but nor will it be grim modern, with boys locked under staircases, mothers with drug problems, or orphaned children scavenging food.
This 5* review has been moved to Shelf Inflicted.It's superb, jaw-dropping writing. I'll be very surprised if this isn't a lot of people's favorite childhood read in the year 2040. (Which I hope to be around to see.)
There isn’t one page of this book that I couldn’t pull a gorgeous quote from.) Ms. Valente certainly does “get to the point” and the point is real, honest, emotion and a gorgeous coming of age story.September is a twelve year old girl who finds her life dull and tedious, and so, when the Green Wind flows in one day with a flying Leopard to take her off to Fairyland, she goes without a thought.
This book just wasn't for me.
There are so much things I had to remember, keep track of, and all that stuff that I just got so lost and became disinterested.Don't get me wrong, the world building is creative and all sorts of fabulous.
It's got humor, funky creatures, and all sorts of cool stuff we all love.
I think it's the case of right book, wrong reader.
I'm quite sure this book will have its scores of readers and that one shouldn't be deterred by my review.
Sad I couldn't like it more but I guess that's how the world of books go.
Because--like most children--September is more or less Heartless, she doesn't tell her mother good-bye or leave her a note.
She finds some delightful (and magical) friends and is reluctantly pulled into a quest by the cruel ruler of Fairyland, the Marquess.
This would be a fun read-aloud book with children who are old enough to handle some painful scenes where characters get badly hurt.
You chose it all."Reading The Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland is kind of like this:and this:with a little of this:P.S. I highly recommend the prequel short story, The Girl Who Ruled Fairyland - For a Little While.
i love the transparency of Baum's prose, the layering of meaning and metaphor, the use of genuine tragedy, the light touch, the wisdom of it all.
so it is a happy thing and one of the highest compliments that i can imagine giving when i say that reading Girl Who Circumnavigated brought me right back to that enchanting feeling of reading a classic Oz book.Valente is a marvel with language.
reading Valente's prose reminds me of looking through my window at a light rain falling on an otherwise bright day, the sun and water making a painting of the world, images seen through the droplets of rain rolling down glass.
I'm so freaking mad, I just knew I would love this book to death.
I only liked it but it seemed like it was right there waiting for me to love it.
I'm definitely going to re-read this one before going on to the other ones that I own because I usually love this kind of book!And the pictures were so cute.
I loved A-Through-L, the Wyvern.
This is really a cute book and I know it's usually something I love.
Instead it hands the children's librarian a book with a title like The Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland in a Ship of Her Own Making and (if she hasn't hyperventilated after reading the title) says to her, "Here you go, smart guy.
Like many a good reader September is inclined to think that she knows the rules of alternate worlds.
And in all my days as a children's librarian, reading fantasy after fantasy, I have NEVER encountered a book that came as close to Alice as this.
This is easily one of the most delightful and magical YA titles I've ever read.I know people do like to compare it to Alice in Wonderland, but in a lot of ways, it's better.
A lot happens, but it's friendship that carries the final day.
I'm going to be reading this to my daughter when she is a little older.
Just plain magic, trickery, adventure, and a twist of the tongue that makes me grin from ear to ear.Valente is quickly becoming one of my most beloved authors.
I knew I had to read everything after Radiance, and this just cements it.

It's hard to express in words just how lovely this book is, well, in my words that is; Valente's words are beyond magical.She certainly did not see Death stand on her tip-toes and blow a kiss after her, a kiss that rushed through all the frosted leaves of the autumnal forest but could not quite catch a child running as fast as she could.
As all mothers know, children travel faster than kisses.
The speed of kisses is, in fact, what Doctor Fallow would call a cosmic constant.
The speed of children has no limits.If you love fantasy or fairy tales, you will fall head-over-heels in love with this book.Reading the last pages gave me the immense pleasure of shivers and goosebumps.
There are so many quotable lines that I'm certain I have marked at least 1/4 of the book if not more.She uses puns, twists fairytale morals/tropes and she weaves all of it into a compelling description that makes your mouth water when you read about all sorts of autumnal food, that lets you relax when you read about baths the main character takes and that lets you feel the wind in your own hair when September flies.Moreover, how the author spun her tale around the Marquess (not just a villain but actually a complicated character as is only right) and Fairyland's history shows that she cannot only tell a BEAUTIFUL tale but also a COMPLEX and CLEVER one.
That scene with (view spoiler)[Lye and the many different fairy baths (hide spoiler)] was the most beautiful and magical thing I've ever read and I loved it!
This is surely a whimsical and wonderful take on a classic fairytale.
Valente also writes beautifully and challenges the reader (particularly young readers, the intended audience) with big words and big themes.
I appreciated the grittiness of this story too.
September, our heroine, faces some difficulties that you don't often find in children's literature.
Overall I'm glad I finally saw what everyone was raving about; it's definitely an important story that I'm glad exists for young readers.
I'm not sure if I will continue with the series any time soon, but maybe someday I'll return to fairyland.

If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales.When I examine myself and my methods of thought, I come to the conclusion that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than any talent for abstract, positive thinking.”― Albert EinsteinIn the normal scheme of things, I would have read this “children’s book”* first, as my introduction to the amazing writing of Catherynne Valente.
I loved the imagination and the emphasis on important things like engineering, problem solving, and bravery!
At first I didn't love it because 1) overhyped and 2) the writing.
I was meh on the book as a whole until those last few chapters and then OH MY HEART.
September is a wonderful heroine and the world building and writing really is something beautiful after you get used to it.It definitely wasn't one of my all time favorite books ever but it was really enjoyable!
I wasn't going to read the rest of the series until those last few chapters, but now I think I'll eventually check them out.
September is a clever girl, she loves to learn new words and her best friend in the new world is a Wiverary (a cross between a wyvern and a Library) with an Encyclopaedic knowledge of everything, provided it starts with a letter from A to L.
Valente proposes at the start of the story that children are 'heartless', selfish little brutes always looking out for Number One, demanding constant attention and believing the whole world belongs to them.
In this sense, September journey is one out of this selfish shell, learning responsibility, empathy and appreciation of parents and friends.
I had no thoughts about it once I'd finished it, and the story hasn't stayed with me, either.I sound as if I am totally disappointed with this read, and I assure you this isn't the case.Valente's style of writing is fairly simple, but in this case, it definitely worked.
Those of you that know me, know that I would buy a book just for the reason of the front cover being beautiful.
I certainly don't want to put people off reading this book, as others may be able to gain more from it than I did.
I just purely loved this, from start to finish. Valente plays with and creates her own Fairyland that is magical, delightful, a little ominous, whimsical and so much fun to be in, even if only for the length of the book. (Does that make me a Stumbler?)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I am a bit sad that I cannot rave about this book as so many others are doing (including two of my heroes, Patrick Rothfuss and Neil Gaiman). I just liked it a normal amount. The story was sweet, the writing was good, it had charm but it never grabbed me totally and it did not stay with me after I put it down. So a good book but not a brilliant one for me.
Valente (from the Questions for the Author)The Girl with an Orange Dress and LanternSeptember is an ill-tempered and irascible twelve year old girl who is very tired of her parents’ house (if that’s not too impossible to imagine).The Green Wind offers her the chance to ride upon the Leopard of Little Breezes and be delivered to the Perverse and Perilous Sea that borders on Fairyland.
She must then make her own way through that part of Fairyland called Pandemonium.“Oh, yes,” responds September (if that’s not too impossible to imagine).September embarks on her journey in an orange dress: “She liked anything orange: leaves; some moons; marigolds; chrysanthemums; cheese; pumpkin, both in pie and out; orange juice; marmalade.
I could feel how much she loved this story she had written, and the characters within.This novel is one that both kids and grown-ups with a love of fantasy and make-believe tales would love.
Fairyland isn't a place that always makes sense, and that could make for strange listening when I was focused on driving or getting where I was going.
If the reader embraces that this isn't that kind of novel, it makes for a very satisfying reading experience.
I definitely recommend this book to readers who enjoy mythopoeic/folklore-rich fantasy novels, young and older.
But, if anything, this reminded me of The Phantom Tollbooth, a book I adore; and to those other books too but in ways I thoroughly enjoyed.There are fabulous chapter titles and sub-titles that give hints of what’s going to happen.
There is a fun twist near the end, which perhaps I should have seen coming but which came as a complete surprise to me.Most enjoyable for me is that while with many books in this sub-genre I usually feel that “it was all a dream or fantasy” with this story I believed everything really happened.This screams loudly that this book is destined to be a classic.
** The Rambling Review **Those five stars up there ^^ they mean I loved this book!!
And I loved this book, let me tell you....The MC, September, is amazing!
Another thing I loved, the language choices; Valente didn't dumb the language down for children, it's liberally peppered with words to learn without taking away from the story.
I can see little kids - maybe 7 or 8 - being read this book and becoming so invested in the story that they care to ask what a word means, which is probably the best way to learn something!
You are not the chosen one, September.
This is what you call a great and enchanting novel full of polished writing and sparkling wit.This is the story of September, a girl caught between possessing and lacking a heart, who is whisked away by the Green Wind to Fairyland.
However everything winds up neatly right at the end and with a unique conclusion that fits the story like a key.I found the witty writing captivating and also highly poetic.
But if you do like something with a bit of whimsy (and I assume you do considering you read to the end of this review - you did read it right?) then go and get yourself a copy of this book.
I think that the only thing I can do is say it outright - this is a truly fantastic book, but it's just something that I just couldn't get away with.
I absolutely loved the character 'A through L' (or Ell), a wyvern who was just so friendly, fun and totally loyal to September throughout her journey.
Overall, I really do not want to put anyone off reading this book - I think a lot of people will appreciate it and love it.
