https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18602341-the-wicked-will-rise
It's such a shame that I will never read this book, given my love for the first.Never, never, ever touching this with a 15-foot pole.
Just read this book in one sitting, just like i did for the first! so amazing...... dying to get the third book! such a cliff hanger!
Anyways, I overall enjoyed it, its not like its unbearable, and I read it in one seating so yeah;4 real wicked stars toAmy's wickedness and fierceness, to Dorothy Gale, To Glinda The Good, Mombi, Queen Lulu, Oz, The Wizard, That Ending, For the laughs & the overall enjoyment.
But at the end of the day, every person is different and can see this situation different, some people might think the author's personality and ideals are more important than the actual book, and thats alright.
This book was utter shit. It felt like I was reading a completely different story from the first book, what the actual fuck? What a waste of 293 pages. If you liked the first book DON'T read this, just save yourself the disappointment.
There are so many moments where I think the story is about to turn into a silly mess, but then it just gets even more interesting.
I'm shocked by how much I like it so far!
Amy's character growth here is awesome, too.
She finally figures out who she is and starts to fight for it.
But she's also warned that magic could start using her....
and then starts to become familiar with a darker side.
I like all of the characters.
I like the world.
Amy's feisty attitude in this book was a lot more realistic, and I felt like the things she said were things I could have said myself in certain situations, and you get this fantastic feeling when you see yourself in a character, even just a bit.
Plus, I don't want to read about Amy constantly pining for Nox and thinking about him even in the most dire situations.Oh, there's also a sort-of love triangle but not really...
3.5 starsThe books in this series are so fun to read but for some reason, I find them easy to put down? I'm not really sure why as I really like the characters and I love the world as well, but I just find myself putting the books down a lot Definitely keen for the next one after that ending though!
Kind of ironic that the person she's defending basically said, "I'll get you, my pretty, and your little dog too!"
This was a great sequel! Sometimes, you never know how a second book is going to go. Luckily, this one was awesome! It has the perfect blend of darkness mixed with humor. There was character growth with Amy. She has a dark side to her that is hidden away, and there were tiny glimpses of it aching to come out, so I can't wait to see what direction her character goes in in the next book!! Review on my blog: https://literarydust.wordpress.com/20...
*4.5 Stars* When you claim your name, what will it be? I think there’s a certain standard in which second books are expected to live up to. In no way is it fair, because, especially with me, the first book in a series is always leagues above the rest-it’s just the way it is. When I fall in love with a series, it’s no light thing. I become obsessed and nothing is likely to please me any time soon. That being said-I have high standards. After devouring a 100% 5 star book, I want the same superiori
In this book, while the action scenes were epic in their own right, they were few and far between and I almost felt….sad….when they happened because I knew there wasn’t much left of the book….and I never felt my breath release like I wanted.
And I know I know, this is a bridge book for the final story…but never has a book felt like a literal bridge before-because this is exactly what this is-bridging to the fanatical last story (I will be a happy little lark when book three comes out, but, for now, let me just pout).Despite what I’d said to Dorothy’s Fantasm in the Fog of Doubt, and as wicked as I knew I could be when I had to, I had one weakness: kindness.And kindness is a weakness.
I love how the book dabbled in grey areas of "who's wicked and who's wickeder?".
As always I love Amy. Her snark is a little more toned down in this one but a) she's freaking tired after always being on the run and cutting things with her shiny black knife, and b) she's stressed out.
(view spoiler)[ And I also love how he and Ozma are combined!
It really really bothered me and it has to do with Pete and Amy. It's kind of a spoiler, but it doesn't give away the plot.
(hide spoiler)]Another thing I love about this book is how it's actually focused on action and adventure and creepiness.
3.5Realmente este segundo libro me gustó más que el primero.
Didn't care much for the sequel. It had a serious case of second-book syndrome. First one was so much better. This story could be wrapped up in two books, not 3. But that's just what I think.
It should be a no-brainer that I should avoid reading this book. The author is a supporter of HaleToTheNo. I shouldn't even give this book the time of day.And yet and yet and yet. >_< Fuck, man, I really loved DMD. I don't know what to do.
http://www.theguardian.com/books/2014...There's the article about Hale that everyone has been talking about.
And it's not going to prevent me from reading this book.Yes, she took it waaaay too far, but Danielle Paige did nothing wrong, She gave her support to her, big deal!
Fans stalk authors all the time, and harass them.
Hale shouldn't have done what she did.
Daniella simply said it was something all authors wished they could do, that doesn't mean she'll do it, or wants to mow down the rights of bloggers.
I hope the rest of you read it when it comes out too.
Well I hate it when books end this way.How you ask?Like you're reading, and you're finally into it, and you can finally feel the passion and emotion guiding the characters, and you turn the next page to know what happens next, and BAM! Back ads.Talk about anti climatic.1.5.14: 2015?Not like I have any other option.
Well crap. That was boring.That’s my exact thought as I read the last phrases of the book.   “Rise, little witch,” Glamora said. “Take your place among us.”I stepped forward.  I cringed. What the hell did I just read?  By those words, I don’t mean what-the-hell-did-I-just-read-it-was-too-awesome-and-shocking. Rather it was what-the-hell-is-this-nothing-makes-sense-and-it-was-too-boring-to-comprehend!Maybe it’s just me. But really, I can’t appreciate much of this.The first book, Dorothy Must Die
That was boring.That’s my exact thought as I read the last phrases of the book.
By those words, I don’t mean what-the-hell-did-I-just-read-it-was-too-awesome-and-shocking.
But really, I can’t appreciate much of this.The first book, Dorothy Must Die, wasn’t really a great book for me.
I thought that by reading the sequel, I might like the whole series.
Boring main character.Shallow problems.Slow plotI don’t think much towards 
She was a character that no matter what you do, you can’t just like her nor hate her.
I liked how the author made the fairy-tale setting of Oz, not dark, but more of twisted and bloody and horrible.
The Wicked Will Rise jumps right into the story where the first book left off.
The Wicked Will Rise was a lot weirder than the first book.
There's so much crazy that happens and at times it felt a little too bizarre.
This book was completely different from Dorothy Must Die. I didn't like the direction that Amy's character went in at all.
I liked her in the first book but she was so different in this one.
It was so much shorter then the first book and it felt like a lot of nothing was happening.
2.5 starsI think I've decided this series isn't for me. Probably won't be continuing on
It came out of the blue and ‘suddenly’ (a word Paige is quite fond of using pretty much all the time) she accepted what has happened which made me role my eyes as this basically sums up the whole of this sequel.This, unlike the first novel, really lacked any sense of atmosphere and the characters felt 2D, if even that much which was disappointing to say the least.Dorothy and Glinda literally spoke like two basic white girls at Starbucks, if you’ve read this book I hope you know what I mean.
They became super annoying halfway through and I don’t know if it’s the writing style that makes a good chunk of this book lack wow factor in everything or if I simply find the characters irritating.I don’t like the romance.
Das hier ist eine ziemlich subjektive Bewertung, aber das Buch war für mich einfach langweilig. Ich hab es nach dem ersten Band echt versucht, aber was diese Charaktere, diese ganze Geschichte angeht, lässt sich das leicht zusammenfassen: Ist mir alles egal. Im Englischen sagt man so schön: I don't care. Das ist etwas sehr subjektives, aber gleichzeitig das schlimmste, was einem beim Lesen passieren kann.
3.5 perché un po' confusionario.Ci sono alcuni plot twist che ti invogliano ad andare avanti e sono comunque curiosa di continuare!
W T F DID I JUST READ
Amy Gumm is back as a strong and sassy main character who knows how to fight.
Finally, the plot is filled with so many twists and turns you will be furiously turning the pages to find out what happens next!One of the things that I really love about The Wicked Will Rise is how strong the main character, Amy Gumm, is.
Retellings that take the same setting, but turn it completely upside-down are so wickedly good!Another amazing component to The Wicked Will Rise is its unpredictable plot.
Of course, read the first book, Dorothy Must Die, before picking up The Wicked Will Rise.
En realidad un 3,75*«Cuando lanzas un hechizo la magia se vuelve parte de ti. Y, depende de quién eres, cambia. Y en ese momento yo había cambiado.»RESEÑA -> http://thewordsofbooks.blogspot.com.e...
This breaks my heart because I really loved the first book. But I just can't.Plus, there are more books in the sea.
The thing is: I liked the first book.The sad thing is: The author has shown support to an author who stalked someone who gave her book a 1-star review...Eh
This was a great sequel!One of the things that I really love about The Wicked Will Rise is how strong the main character, Amy Gumm, is.
I love the relationship between Amy and Nox, I liked how the story didn’t revolve around them which was nice; it was literally perfect.
The plot twists in this series so far are very powerful, and amazing and will make you LOVE the series!I know this book seems really short, but it’s jam-packed with suspense and action.
What makes this book even better is the character development, an improved story line and more plot twists.I REALLY, REALLY LOVED THIS SEQUEL.
This is my second time around reading this book and my thoughts remain the same, I freaking LOVED it!!! Dorothy Must Die was utterly amazing but The Wicked Will Rise is on a whole other level! This book is nonstop action and twists and turns the whole way through. I really love this re-telling, it's really just perfect. I've also grown to really love the characters, and most of all, love the delicious wickedness of this series! And with the way this book ended, I'm dying to get started on the next!
Did I really just read a book about Amy going to two different places, and stopping there for a few days? This felt like the most passive sequel I've ever read, but at least the setting was rich and a love triangle was avoided! Huzzah! Also, one of her mission was 'Find Dorothy' but I'm pretty sure Dorothy found her, just sayin'.
