https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3131741-emil-i-l-nneberga
The feast for the poor is a truly heroic gesture and shows that Emil cares deeply for his fellow man, and that a goodly number of his so-called misdeeds are not "pranky" at all, but rather the opposite so to speak.While I thus do love and appreciate the characters and anecdotes as much as I did when I was a child, I have to say that I find the narrator (or more precisely, the voice of the narrator) both distracting and perhaps even rather patronising this time around.
But I do think now that Emil was often misunderstood, especially by his dad.
Emil is a smart, kind boys with excellent entrepreneurial skills, just lacking in foresight, that's why he gets himself in so much trouble.
I believe, if he were a real boy and lived in the now, he'd be a millionaire by the age of 16.I am going to search for some good paper copies of this book to read to my son.
I am sure he will appreciate Emil's adventures when he is a little older.
(Why are books by Astrid Lindgren not more popular in America BTW?)
But, as Astrid Lindgren tells you every now and again while she's narrating the story, when he grew up he became the Chairman of the Local Council Board, and that is the Very Finest Thing Anyone Can Be. A bit like becoming King of England, you understand.Each time Emil does one of his crazy things (hyss in Småland dialect), his father completely loses it and starts screaming Eeeemil!!
After that, Emil spends the next few hours sitting there until things have cooled down; to pass the time, he always carves a little wooden doll with his penknife, and puts it on the shelf when he's let out again.
Антон (9г.): Авторът е използвал много измишльотини и това ми хареса. Емил ми хареса като герой, защото са му много смешни пакостите. Алфред щеше за малко да умре, но Емил го спаси. Накрая всичко се подреди. Препоръчвам тази книга, защото е хубава и забавна.
I miss you Emil. My childhood friend.
Ами ей това е! Биричка на фералък (теферич по севернобългарски), ветрец и Емил от Льонеберя... така се живее до 1000 години (поне!) :) Разкошна баба Астрид, уникално въображение, невероятен хумор, простотия на макс и коремни конвулсии от неудържимия смях - от стр. 1 до стр... уф, коя беше последна? А, кой ли ти ги брои - давай отначало! :)
Beim Lesen fallen einem dann erst wieder alle Streiche ein :)Aber er macht Streiche, die einen schmunzeln lassen. Und nach jedem Streich wird er im Holzschuppen eingesperrt, um über seine böse Tat nachzudenken. Dabei schnitzt er jedesmal eine Figur. Ein weiteres Stück Kindheit, das in meinem Bücherregal einzieht.
4 stars! Emil, whose name has been changed into Michel for the German edition of the story, is one of my childhood heroes. He might be a hand full at times and he is definitely driving his family crazy with all his irrational ideas, but he is also a really good boy. Speaking up against social inequality and unfair situations with his own ”weapons”, Michel is trying to contribute to a change. It’s exactly this mixture between all his mischief and his good deeds that is making the stories about Michel unforgettable. An all-time childhood classic!
Една много интересна книга. Препоръчвам я на всяко дете даже може и родител.
Bērnībai ir jābūt palaidnīgai, tāpat kā zupa jāēd, skaļi šņakājot, "citādi tak nevar zināt, ka tā ir zupa"."Šitādu zēnu manas acis vēl nav redzējušas.""- Sēdēsi tik ilgi, līdz būsi kārtīgi pārdomājis savu nedarbu, - tēvs mēdza teikt, - lai tu vairs nekad tā nedarītu.Un Emīls šai ziņā bija akurāts un retik kad izdarīja vienu un to pašu nedarbu divas reizes - viņš arvien izdomāja jaunus stiķus."
Đây là một trong những tác phẩm thiếu nhi yêu thích của mình, ngoài Nhóc Nicolas, Khu vườn bí mật...Xuất hiện với hình ảnh một cậu nhóc năm tuổi có đôi má hồng hào, mái tóc bồng bềnh và đôi mắt xanh dịu dàng, Emil tưởng chừng là một cậu bé trai xinh xắn đáng yêu, nhưng mọi người có thể nghĩ lại vì thực tế cậu bé bày đủ trò tinh nghịch, khiến bố mẹ và mọi người xung quanh lúc nào cũng phải đau đầu.Lại thằng nhóc Emil, đó là câu mà mọi người thường kêu ca mỗi lần cậu bé bày mộ trò gì đấy.
I read this for my 6-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter as a bedtime story book. It's one of the kids' books everyone in the Northern countries knows, and it's very nostalgic for me. Eemeli is also a good role model for my son, who is a very anxious child. I really like Astrid Lindgren, and can't wait until I can start reading Ronja and Brothers Lionheart for my kids.
Einfach nur herzallerliebst und vorgelesen von der Autorin irgendwie noch mal besser. Ich kann es nach wie vor nur allem empfehlen und gerade Michel/Emil ist eine so tolle Figur von Astrid Lindgren. Da will ich am liebsten immer gleich nach Schweden und in einem kleinen roten Holzhaus am See wohnen, wie ich mir den Hof Katthult vorstelle.
وای!وای!چهقدر از ته دل خندیدم!:)) متشکرم لیلی و هلیا!:>>+ آیا کسی داره کتابهای دیگهش رو هم؟
وای!وای!چه‌قدر از ته دل خندیدم!:)) متشکرم لیلی و هلیا!:>>+ آیا کسی داره کتاب‌های دیگه‌ش رو هم؟
I think this is the first book I remember reading as a child. I absolutely loved how funny it was! Will definitely read it to my own children some day.
Ah the nostalgia! This is such a fun and easy read. I have missed this little guy!
Diğer Lingren kitapları yanında vasat bulduk bu kitabı.
Of course, Pippi Longstocking is monstrously strong and has a chest full of gold, but Emil, or Michel in the German version, is simply a normal, precocious and lively boy who loves his family even if he is extremely talented in causing trouble for them, which made me identify much more with him.If you have children, buy it and read it to them.
If you don't have children, read it anyway.
Aber wenn er nicht schläft, dann hat er mehr Unsinn im Kopf als irgendein anderer Junge in ganz Lönneberga oder ganz Småland oder ganz Schweden oder vielleicht sogar auf der ganzen Welt!
Das Buch ist für mich was ganz besonderes erstens, weil das Buch schon alt ist (man sieht es auf dem Erscheinungsdatum) und zweites, weil die Geschichten immer noch gut sind und es jedes mal lesen kann!
Die Streiche von Michel sind auch ganz lustig!Das Cover:Zum Cover kann ich leider nicht so viel sagen da es schlicht ist und man nur den Michel abgedruckt sieht!
He doesn't tend to like books about children who set out to be mean or horrible,in fact these type of characters often upset my kids (unless they are just messy/smelly- that's ok) so Emil's brand of being 'naughty' by accident is perfect for him.
Even when Emil does hoist his little sister up the flagpole he does so because she wants to look at the next town and she's very happy about this- it's his parents who aren't!
If you like this try Lindgren's Lotta books as well for younger children and of course the books about Pippi Longstocking later on.
Pertama kali baca waktu SD, gue dibuat terpingkal-pingkal sama tingkah polah Emil yang bisa bikin seisi rumah pertanian Katthult jungkir balik ketika ia berada dalam masalah.
Bisa kebayang gimana perasaan ibunya saat semua kejadian-kejadian itu berlangsung hingga pada akhirnya ia mencatatnya sambil tersenyum-senyum sendiri.Astrid Lindgren sukses banget ngegambarin karakter anak yang energinya melimpah, cerdas, dan baik hati.
Masalah-masalah yang mungkin dianggap sebagian orang dewasa sebagai 'kebadungan' justru semakin membuktikan bahwa Emil bukan anak biasa.
Buku ini wajib banget dibaca oleh orang tua yang memiliki anak yang akan memasuki masa-masa paling aktif, supaya dapat melihat 'kebadungan' mereka dari sudut pandang yang lain.

Lindgrenin klassikko toimii aina. Aloitin uuden esikouluvuoden lukemalla Eemelit, ja vaikka uuden ryhmän kanssa lepo-/satuhetket ovatkin ehkä levottomia, sai tästä irti paljonkin ne, ketkä kuunnella osasivat ja jaksoivat. Ja niin sain itsekin, Eemelin metkut ovat hauskoja, lempeitä ja kauniisti erilaisuuden huomioon ottavia tarinoita, jotka toimivat vuodesta toiseen.
قرأتها بالترجمة العربية من دار المنىوماذا أتوقع حينما تكون دار المنى هي الجهة المترجمة والناشرة؟إنه الإبداع حقاقصة جميلة وطفل شقي مليء بالحيوية والنشاطلقد أحببت القصة ولغتها الجميلة وعشت مع إميل لحظات مرحة رائعةإميل في لنبريا، قصة جميلة لم أندم على اقتنائها مطلقا ^_^
Ab, in den Schuppen, Holzmännchen schnitzen! - Die Geschichten von Michel, der es ja eigentlich immer gut meint, seiner kleinen Schwester Ida und der ganzen Familie in Lönneberga sind einfach fürs große und kleine Kinderherz. Auch heute noch les ich sie gern!
Wieder mal ein TOP-Buch aus dem Hause Lindgren, nicht nur für unsere 6-jährige Tochter :-)
ضحك ولدي كثيرا ذي الخمس سنوات أثناء قراءة هذا الكتاب :-)
Read aloud from Papa to all the kids and Mama too. What a treat! The stories are so beautifully written (and read), we were all sucked in and terribly sad it was (already) over.
Jag älskar Emil! En underfundig liten pojke som alltid vill väl men får det så fel, så ofta. Fast inte alltid. Han har ett stort hjärta Emil, till trots för alla hyss.
mano vaikyste!!!!
