https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2731276-the-story-of-edgar-sawtelle
I would give the first 500 pages five stars and the last 66 pages one star.I went into this book thinking it was a YA type (and this may be one of the downfalls of a Kindle, you can't tell how really long a book is, or else I don't yet have the right feeling for interpreting the dots that show how far you've read in a book.) But...Yes, it's a story about a 13 year old mute boy living on a dog farm/breeding kennel in the early 70's.Yes, it's a coming of age story.Yes, it's everything that sounds like a really good boy/dog animal story should be.But...Think again.
Edgar (Hamlet) is a boy born without the power of speech to a family (father Gar and mother Trudy) engaged in the business of raising very special dogs, so-called Sawtelle dogs.
Wroblewski was also very fond of Kipling’s Jungle Book as a kid and Edgar takes on the role of Mowgli as well as that of Hamlet.
There is immense charm to accompany the danger when Edgar/Mowgli is afoot in the wood/jungle with his personal pack.
PS - Wroblewski will be returning to the North Woods in his next book, telling the story of Edgar's ancestors.
Edgar took him ten years to write.
The author doesn't seem to understand the relationship between story and the flow of ideas.
Great books, and even just good ones, use incident to explain motivation and to carry forward the ideas the book is trying to convey.
This book is filled with incident that has no bearing on anything and the author carries the story forward with the help of ghosts, strange storms, and sudden unexplained shifts in the character's understanding of what is happening.
In reality, I kept imagining that it was really a 576 page short story.
But even Brody, my dog, could not warrant a pointless 576 page short story.
This poorly-conceived and executed book may appeal to a shocking number of readers, but it doesn't make it worth one of the dogs that inspired it.I feel like Joe the Plumber in Israel: I have a thousand questions in my mind yet I can't think of the right one.
Wroblewski inspired Frank to think up this beautiful garbage: "the pink honesty of the moon's whisper." Think about it: it's meaningless.
But would someone mind informing Wroblewski that humans, however empathetic of animals, do not trot to and fro?
In fact, I did end up finishing the book before I incurred late fees and the wrath of Wroblewski's rabid fans.
I almost jumped ship on page 30, where the story hopped over to the POV of Almondine the dog and had her thinking and reasoning like a human being.
Fuzzy writing=fuzzy thinking.To hang an inferior book on the bones of Hamlet does not make it a better book.
That thought wouldn’t have crossed my mind but for the overdone hype of the entire book concerning the characteristics of dogs.
Suffice it to say that the book could have been written to work without them.
I was SOOOO disappointed in this book.
I felt like the author went overboard trying to 'wax poetic' to the point where I didn't know what he was talking about, even being unsure of what the progression of events was.
It felt like climbing a long flight of stairs with the anticipation of finding a beautiful room there, and just as you are about to take that last step, someone jumps out and knocks you in the head with a club and you go tumbling down the stairs.
Oprah doesn't know what she's talking about.
Stayed up half the night finishing it and… I really can’t be objective about this book.
It’s like Wroblewski had some kind of infrared Jungian checklist and somehow managed to find out all my childhood fantasies: benevolent and wise dog companion/nursemaid?
I wanted a dog who would look out for me like Lassie.
But that didn’t matter much to me, honestly – I was so emotionally involved with the characters it was like being in love, in the way logic just flies out the window for a while.
And it’s been such a long time since a book did that to me.
I waged a personal debate for this five-star rating, arguing what exactly makes a book great.
With every question, I returned to the story itself has the ability to lift a book above more average efforts.'The Story of Edgar Sawtelle' is just that, a great story.
That he was in labor for ten years with his story makes one wonder what he must of felt when he finished.Some might argue the necessity for such extended prose.
I shuddered at the two typos (pages 164 & 430), and for a time, those oversights in editing threatened a great story.
Her head is reared back, her ears cocked forward.A cherry-brindled eye peers back at him….He pitches to his side, rubs his hand across the blanket, blows a breath in her face.
Such a perfect dog nose description!
But somewhere between when the watery image of his dead dad appears and Page, the vet falls down the steps and dies and Edgar and 3 of his dogs run away, the book just falls apart for me.
And during the rest of the read I hoped that the next page would pull away from the tedium that had set in and get back to business and answer some of the mysterious questions that the author had set floating around in his misty prose.
You know then that it isn't going to end well and Wroblewski sticks fairly closely into the plot (despite a very brief foray into King Lear), even if some of the characters from the original are played by some of the dogs.
The reasons for the tensions between the brothers is just not clear and very unconvincing.
He just appears to be psychopathic and it is never clear why or how; too little nuance.
The Hamlet angle was a mistake; there was the germ of a good (if sentimental) story here, but throw in the plot of the play and you have a recipe for disaster.
Problems with rewriting Hamlet as a story about dog-breeders in Wisconsin:(1) Hamlet is already pretty good, and most writers don't profit by inviting the comparison.(2) It makes the plot pretty predictable, which is a problem for what was apparently supposed to be an adventure novel.
The rest made me grumpy -- Wroblewski obviously has enormous desciptive talent, and there's a sense of joy in his description of dogs that made me want to love the book, but I think his good intentions were hijacked by a misguided interest in Hamlet that gave him cover for his failure to figure out what to do with all these interesting ideas.
I feel like I'm one of the only people missing something here. I just finished a book about family, loyalty, dogs, and I just didn't get it. I didn't find myself connecting with the characters and as soon as I was starting to feel a connection (the last two hundred pages), Wroblewski throws out a half-baked ending leaving me saying, "What?". I'm not one that requires a tidy ending, but there should be some well-reasoned meaning. (Please, Logan, no "I told you so" about Oprah.)
After reading so many reviews of this book I was excited to start it --- It is very detailed and although I had some chapters I did enjoy reading very much - I thought the story was much longer then it needed to be and was frustrated by the fact that Edgar did not confront his mother when he first suspected his uncle since he and his mother had such a close relationship.
I thought the book had a lot of filler information in it that really did not need to be there - all the old letters from his grandfather and the information on all the dogs - it could of been 1/3 of that to get the gist of it to know the history .
Like so many movie previews these days, the book jacket on this one gave away pretty much the entire story.
Edgar Sawtelle is a mute boy living on a farm with his mother and father.
Edgar's uncle (conveniently named Claude) comes to town - and in another inexplicable plot device - he has a long-standing grudge against Edgar's father.
They argue and fight, and Edgar's mother explains that it all goes far back and has nothing to do with Edgar, but it never becomes clear where it comes from or why the reader should care.
The Story of Edgar Sawtelle is the type of book that seems to come along only once and a while.
Yet somehow I both love the story of Edgar Sawtelle and hate it with a passion.
The lack of motivation and justification for the actions and reactions of the characters within the novel was confusing and for me created a sense of confusion in reference to the back story.
Parts of the book felt drastically out of proportion: large descriptions were given to the training of the dogs yet no reason was given for the disagrement between Edgar's father and uncle.
Warning: this has a spoiler or two...I finally finished this book!
There were so many times I felt like the story kept going (it felt terribly strung out -- could tell the same story in fewer -- much fewer pages) and for what reason?
I kept pulling myself out of the story and saying: 'Why?' I am not sure why this has received so many rave reviews.
The ending is terribly sad.
I am not opposed to sad endings...
I got distracted quite a bit while reading this book.
She was my favorite of all...And one reviewer brought up a great point: Why did the uncle do it?
The Story of Edgar Sawtelle received a lot of advanced hype.
I wouldn't call it a classic piece of American literature, but it's probably one of the best books of the year.
The story is a retelling of Hamlet, but focuses on an american boy who is mute.
The other "problem" I had with the book was that I didn't really feel the author needed the Hamlet template.
The story is good enough on its own.
It's not a perfect book by any means, but it's a perfectly good story told with heart.
I recommend it for those who enjoy good, literate Americana stories.
Don't be sucked in by the hype- it just isn't that good.
The story really wanted to be a tragic work of art, but it ended up being a disjointed collection of thoughts.
The writing was excellent.
There were great descriptions of the dogs and the landscape, but the characters missed the mark entirely.
The story of Henry was promising, however after all the build up we find out that inciting turmoil of the character is that he is "ordinary".
How heartbreaking.
Like the Winchester mansion, the story was filled with unexplained oddities that just seemed to go nowhere.
With Edgar Sawtelle Wroblewski has created a protagonist who might have been fondly remembered with other famous personas of American literature in years to come - but at the same time his work is recognizably flawed, with the third act particularly to blame.Edgar Sawtelle is a mute boy born to a family of dog breeders, who live at the outskirts of the Chequamegon forest in remote northern Wisconsin.
Wroblewski does a great job at developing Edgar's bond with the dogs - it's natural both for him and his protagonist.But something is rotten in northern Wisconsin.
This book was nothing like any of that.
Instead it was magnificently worded with adjectives I loved (I'm big on adjectives) and the characters had personalities that are even now still in my head.
I cheered on Edgar, loved Almondine like I love my 16 year old cat, puzzled over Trudy, cried over Gar and even Page, wanted to hang out with Henry, and tried to figure out how bad or how good Claude really was.
This book was truly wonderful.Thank you to all of you that pushed me to read it.....I loved every page of it.
I'm re-reading Edgar Sawtelle for a book discussion next month on Constant Reader.The Story of Edgar Sawtelle is a masterfully crafted tale, written in exquisite language that sets Wroblewski apart as a story teller and writer in his own right. At first I wanted to compare him to Steinbeck, but he belongs in a league of his own. If no one has ever had a dog, after finishing The Story of Edgar Sawtelle, I would venture to say you'll feel as though you've had one all your life.
This book is getting a lot of advance praise and will most certainly be a critical hit. I'm sure many people will adore this book, I am unfortunately not one of those people. The writing is beautiful, the story is ambitious, but I found the book utterly monotonous. I kept reading because I felt I should finish the book, not because I wanted to.
Now I’m not referring to books in fairly formulaic categories, such as romance fiction, where the author knows the book will be evaluated within that genre.
…Having Hamlet as its subtext is a big clue.Yet, I liked this book.
I was in a book wallow when I read Sawtelle, and it got me through a tough time.
It’s a bit like those times when you start reading a book, and think, “This is boring the holy hell out of me.” Later—in a better mood?
The Story of Edgar Sawtelle is a spellbinding tale of love and loss, and the ultimate search of finding oneself.The Story of Edgar Sawtelle by David Wroblewski is the most recent pick for Oprah's Book Club and it is a thoughtful literary masterpiece worthy of 5 stars.
This is not your fast-paced thriller beach read; this is a novel you want to read carefully and allow to steep and absorb.The characters are complexly drawn, three-dimensional and the story itself is highly emotional and inspiring.
In addition,I thought that the use of the supernatural was unnecessary and used merely as s convenient narrative device and,in spite of the fact that I often marvel at the innate wisdom of dogs, the over-humanization of the animals in this book is annoying and verges on being Kipplingesque which, in this case, is not a good thing.Lucky for David Wroblewski that Oprah is a dog lover!
I wonder how successful this novel would have been if Oprah had not picked it for her book club.Mr. Wroblewski, Get thee to an editor!
This epic story of a lonely boy, his loyal dog, and his family's betrayal at the hands of his bitter uncle will not only haunt me for the rest of the summer, but will cause all the other books I pick up this fall to pale in comparison, I suspect.
Set in a rural 1970's Wisconsin and gracefully hung on the bones of Hamlet, the story explores the inner life of mute boy Edgar Sawtelle and his amazing invented breed of near- mind-reading dog, simply called the Sawtelle dogs.
I kept thinking I should pay close attention to all the details because I was sure the author was weaving a complex tapestry that would unfold in a satisfying way.
There was no justice for Edgar and things literally burn up in the end.
I enjoyed many aspects of this book but I'm left wondering about so many things.
???...so much has left me wondering I could go on and on.
The author is brilliant in his descriptions of time and place and the relationships between dogs and humans.
I cared deeply for Edgar, his family, and the Sawtelle dogs.
I think that simply re-writing Hamlet and placing the location in Wisconsin and throwing in some dogs doesn't really make for a compelling story.
The pacing of the book is very slow and it runs back and forth from each characters perspective, even the dogs.
If you are dog lover or train dogs, you would really like this book.
It goes through the emotions and the discpline it takes to train a dog.
He won't get a reaction and he won't be rewarded.)I think that enough people have read Hamlet that a subtle reference to it is enough.
The Oprah sticker on the front tells you everything you need to know. That the book is deeply aspirational, acutely maudlin, hideously middlebrow. That in many sentences the author seems to be trying to channel Gerard Manley Hopkins; in others, despite his efforts, he channels Nicholas Sparks. Attempts at magical realism result in execrable whimsy. Oracles advise, bread loaves jump, ghosts speak (in both English and sign language), dogs have complex thoughts and can hold conversations. Of course Oprah loves this book. Of course she's producing the movie. This one goes back in the book dumpster whence it cameth.
I have to agree with Stephen King on this one. THE STORY OF EDGAR SAWTELLE is a fine novel. Wroblewski weaves an impressive tale full of solid characters and vivid locales. 9 years later, this book still pops into my head from time to time.
