https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5358.The_Firm
(I'm probably exaggerating but most of it's true.)First of all, because of this book, I took up Accounting as my major in college.
This book painted a very exciting picture of how an accountant's life could be very exciting.
You should realize that I read this book when I was in high school, and yes I knew it was fiction, but I was young and gullible.
I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life and I read this book.
Even when I was younger, I already wanted to be a lawyer, but was unsure on what pre-law course to take (hence, the accountancy major).
At the time I was a teenager who was getting on a plane to visit relatives and I needed something to read to pass the time.
Just recently I was at the used bookstore looking for a book for my teenage son to read while he is gone for the next 10 weeks working at a Boy Scout camp as a lifeguard.
photo taken by my husbandWe pulled into a small town and found a used bookstore because we needed something to listening to while passing the time in the car.
The Firm is very extreme and often unbelievable, but it's still a very well-written and gripping story nonetheless.
Yet, unwittingly (oh, how I love the innocence), lured by money and associated perks, our man finds himself as a tax lawyer in the Memphis law firm Bendini, Lambert & Locke, where more sinister dealings happen under the cover of a legitimate law firm business.The story-line never launches itself into the epic thriller that the plot threatens to become, the pace is completely off, and I can safely say that there is no single point of real suspense in this novel thanks to the some early giveaways with which you can construct most of what's about to happen (mhmm, no twists either).
An idealistic lawyer – the fresher out of law school, the better; or, II.
The case he's currently working on has ties to the Mafia;B.
The case he's currently working on has ties to the KKK;C.
The case he's currently working on has ties to the highest of government; orD.
The case he's currently working on has ties to the evil health care industry.With the help of:1.
No one, because he's an IDEALISTIC LAWYER, He:a.
Is able to turn the Mafia over to the FBI;c.
Enter into the Witness Protection program; iii.
This book is really interesting, well written and absolutely irresistible. I'm on a mission to read every book that Grisham wrote, because his books never disappoint me.
Excellent read! suspenseful,entertaining,great plot twist,good character development and nice depth..recommend to all (paperback!)
Am citit acearta carte in vacanta la tara cand eram adolescenta. Foarte bine scrisa si actiunea este bine gandita, te tine intr-un ritm alert si in suspans pana la ultima pagina.
I have scant memories of this thriller that was quickly turned out as a movie by the Hollywood machine. I think it was entertaining and at the time a bit of a renegade book in the US which did not really have this kind of lawyer thriller fiction at the time if my memory serves (Law & Order was not yet on TV - lots of cop shows, not so many lawyer ones) so I have no idea now, 30 years later how interesting this book would be to re-read...
Mitch McDeere is near the top of his Harvard Law School graduating class and can virtually have his pick of jobs with high-powered Wall Street firms.
If he won't, the agents tell him that when the firm does go down, Mitch will be convicted as a willing participant in the firm's illegal activities.McDeere is obviously caught between a rock and the proverbial hard place: If he doesn't help the FBI, he's going to wind up in jail, but if he does, he could wind up in the grave.
Grisham is an excellent writer who writes fantastic legal thrillers. This is one of the best I have read by him!
I loved this so much. 4 stars. ⭐⭐⭐⭐
I loved this so much. 4 stars. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
و مازالت كتبه بتحقق نسب مبيعات عالية للآن ..، جون تخصصه الأدبي هو (الدراما القانونية) ، و هو الشئ اللي جذبني اقرأله ، بعيدا عن ان موضوع القانون هو مجال دراستي :)) ، لأني ماباتعاملش مع الموضوع دا كحقيقة او واقع اوي الصراحة (و لو ان كتب زي دي بتثير شغفي من جديد بما درست و بتخليني ابص للموضوع من ناحية تانية اكثر جاذبية :) !) ..
، لكن ببساطة ..
لأنه مجال جديد عليه الى حد ما في القراءة ...عندما كنا في كلية الحقوق كان لدينا أفكار نبيلة عن الطريقة التي يجب أن يكون عليها المحامي الجيد .
Wow! That's all I can say about The Firm, I can't believe I didn't read it sooner, it's what I called a classic edge of your seat thriller, it was a lot better than the movie I thought, John Grisham does a great job explaining the legal system, this is my second book by Grisham and it certainly won't be my last. Anyone that's looking for a good legal thriller I recommend The Firm if you haven't read it already.
The sole reason I started reading this book was that it was the only literature at hand at my new place. Can you say b-o-r-i-n-g?Now I feel I have to slog through the remaining 100 pages or so of mindless 'furiously-paced thrills' just so that I can start on my new acquisitions (Bradbury, Pratchett, Adams, Lovecraft, Jordan, Eco ...)Highly recommended for beginners and people who don't know what a good book really should be.Update: I can't take it anymore. Dropped!
He was suspicious so he hired a private investigator named Eddie Lomax, an ex-cell mate of his brother Ray, to investigate the deaths of the attorneys.Mitch isn’t the only person involved in his plan.
The book makes you want to read it to find out how Mitch gets himself out of his little problems and also his final big problem.
This book makes you wonder what you would have done if you were Mitch, as he tries to keep his bosses, the Mafia, from finding out about him talking to the FBI.
I really enjoyed this novel although I don't think that the finale lived up to the excellent start. I have seen the film and for me it did edge the book.The book flows in the usual Grisham style and is a very easy read. I love the way he writes and find that I nearly always finish them within 2 days.
I thought this was a poor book at best. Then I read this lovely headline today. And the innocent friend?It's a good thing he became an author. He would make a rather poor defense attorney.
One of the best books I've read in a while!
I admit. I saw the film before I read the book. What do I think? Both are five stars. They are. But I judge them as separate works of art. Because they are. To the book:Always loved me a good thriller. This has it all. Intrigue, suspense, passion, complexity, and plenty of twists. As with all great old works, there are plenty of long reviews out there already. So I will keep this short. Exactly.
It is always fun to read books where situations are so gripping that you don't feel like doing anything before knowing what's to happen next. With the protagonist, you too get galvanised and roused. The story is fantastic, the writing style is impressive, the characters are intriguing in a way you would want to know what their next move could be and everything comes with a price. My first book of John Grisham has impressed me much. If you are looking for an adventurous ride, I say you must take this seat.
3.0 to 3.5 stars. My first Grisham novel, I thought this was a fun, fast read with a very interesting plot. Being an attorney (in fact reading this while I was a first year law student) I think both helped andhindered my enjoyment of the book. On the positive side, I really liked the setting and relate to Mitch. On the negative side, I was also able to see the "flaws" in some of the major plot points. However, overall I enjoyed it.
If I remember correctly it was the poor character development that really pissed me off - the protagonist is superhuman in every way, it's as if Grisham has just selected Mitch's qualities from a moronically obvious list titled 'characteristics that will appeal to pulp corporate thriller readers'; brother died in vietnam, other brother a rogue, he barely sleeps, works 100 hr weeks, has an unusually sharp memory, studied hard and came near top of his class despite hardship, was a football star, hot girlfriend, and if I remember correctly (though I could be wrong) he runs like 7 miles a day?
One of John Grisham's best novels.The story centers on a young intelligent lawyer, Mitch Mcderee who takes a job with a tremendous firm, having been seduced by their huge financial offerings.
After he was hired by `The Firm,' almost everything started great.
The lives of Mitch and his wife Abby are completely and drastically changed weeks after he was hired by the firm.
Now, the couple suspiciously found strange things happening...people getting killed by boat bombs.Reminders to intelligent young lawyers out there: Joining a law firm from hell can be dangerous to your health :p
Good early Grisham legal thriller. The Firm - you can get in, but not out. The offer to young Mitch by a Memphis law firm sounds too good to be true. The skeletons in the closet are plenty - and dangerous.He and his young wife must become creative when squeezed between sinister forces and the government.
A tactfully crafted novel that pumps adrenaline relentlessly. Tension rises with each page and Grisham managed ingeniously to keep the pace on a steady-rise basis. Although I found some cracks in the plot here and there,they are negligible comparing with the exhilaration it had given to me. One hell of a read. Good job Grisham.3.8 stars on 5!-gautam
Everybody was treating him as though he was a much more rounded character than he really was.I mean, I'm not complaining: John Grisham still managed to keep me reading, but maybe that was just because there were people conducting subterfuges.Still, the lawyers not suspecting what was going on, when they had all the EVIDENCE in front of them, is so stupid.
So, yeah, I can see why he sells, but not why he sells that well.Two things that also really disgusted me: one, that Mitch cheated on his wife near the beginning, and the photos of him in the act were used to blackmail him, and then at the end he never confesses.
I didn’t know what I expected from this book when I first started it but I knew that something was fishy about the Bendini, Lambert and Locke firm.
I mean, seriously they were just so creepy asking all those questions about family and stuff.
I respect the fact that he didn’t want to trust the FBI at first but come on!
I loved how she does all that spy stuff to help Mitch and his family.
The ending was a bit of a letdown though but it didn’t spoil the rest of the book for me.
Continuing my books-into-movies world tour 2012, I thought I would check out the book that brought John Grisham to the attention of the world. While I enjoyed the movie but can now see that much of the book's charm was not adequately translated to the screen. This was a terrific read from start to finish and Grisham knows how to keep a plot moving briskly. I really liked this one. More than I thought I would if I'm completely honest.
My first Grisham book I read. I was expecting my first child and my husband walked in. The characters were just figuring out how to escape the situation they were in without being caught... no spoilers here - I was SO in the book that when I came back to present, my legs were jelly! I honestly don't think I could have gotten up from my chair. '') This was a really good read. I enjoyed the suspense, and after reading this one, I have read most of John Grisham's books.
