https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110394.Dancing_at_Midnight
"Belle," he said flatly. "I don't want your love. I can't accept it.""How dare you belittle me this way?"His hand closed around her wrist. "You misunderstand me. It is because I value your love so highly that I do not accept it." Time for another reimagined play. Settle down, folks.Cast of Characters:Lady Arabella Blydon (Bella): a lovely and (allegedly) brilliant young womanLord John Blackwood: a grumpy, self-flagellating war veteranKhanh: self-explanatoryAct I:*a blissful pastoral scene*Bella
RAAAAAAAAAAAAWR!John: *snarls for good measure*Bella: *___________________* OH MY GOD I'M IN LOVEJohn: WHAT THE FUCK WOMAN?
I MEAN IT,Bella: *most definitely not going away* Ok *_* *sighs*Khanh: *makes stabby motions at both*Act II:*A dark room with lots of dark curtains and candles, there might as well be thunderstorms outside and shit to make it look appropriately dark, too*John: *engages in a soliloquy* I...I'm uncommonly attracted to her.
I'm going to tell my friend to tell my other friend to tell my other friend that I'm about to get married and then surely he'll come after me and be my love!Khanh: Are you kidding me?*10 seconds later*John: WHAT THE FUCK WOMAN, WHY U GETTIN MARRIED?Bella: JOHN!
I'm really, really sorry, but I found this book to be the ode to stupidity!I was spoiled by other Ms. Quinn's books and I was expecting something like those, but I just wanted to yell, cry and pull out my hair while reading this book!The story could have been interesting, the writing was good, but the actions of ALL characters were sooooo....
They all had so many TSTL moments the it was not funny!I could rant and rant and rant about it that this review would be as long as this book, so I'll just cut it short and say that loathed it and finish it here!
You know that Katy Perry song that has the line "You PMS like a chick that I know." That's the song that comes to mind when I think of the hero John in this book.
He will go from relaxed and bantering with the heroine to yelling "You can never understand what I've done!" and crushing her into a kiss, then push her away in the space of ten seconds.It's Julia Quinn's second book and it's nice to know that she improves.
Rape in any read would obviously make readers feel morose and sad and angry, and all sorts of conflicting emotions, but having it be a huge central point in this book, alongside the naïve, careless Belle and this “sweet” romance made this just...
I hate the issue – the injustice of it all, and thus, I don’t like reading about it, but this book – especially being a fiction of a “cute-cheesy romance” variety just made me sad and frustrated, and all sorts of terribly conflicting emotions.
A decent read. Nothing to knock my proverbial socks offSeries: yepSexy times: It's JQ. You're mostly safePlan on reading more by the author: Oh sure.Why it did or didn't work for me: Nothing here to rock my world or make me want more. I mean, it's a solid JQ HR romance, just not one of her best. Signed,  Not to worry, Ms Quinn, I'm still reading your backlist. Won't give up.
I really like Belle and John, as well as Emma and Alex and Dunford...
:) Cute cute.July 1, 2007Okay, I LOVED Lord John.
So, she's sick of London, and she goes out to the country to visit Emma and Alex (which is also a lovely movie), where she meets Lord John.
I must spend time with him and MAKE him like me!" which results in fun kissing scenes...
:) Anyway, she spends most of the book trying to convince him that he's worthy of her (which includes some GREAT jealousy scenes), because he thinks he's this AWFUL person, which he's not.
*eye-rolling*Many fun times are had because of Lord John's estate's name...
2.5 stars...I really hate to say, but this wasn't one of Julia's best.
It started out good, but quickly turned into something I wasn't fond of.
I found myself flipping to see how many pages were left and almost skim reading so I could hurry and finish.
In fact, I thought about not finishing.
That is not in character for me and Julia Quinn books!
The writing isn't magical like I've come to expect.
Newcomers to Julia Quinn, DON'T start with this one.
Longtime fans may appreciate it, but others like me may not so much.
Read at your own risk.
I like Julia Quinn, she's kinda cheesy, but usually in a cute way.
This book is excessively cheesy and beyond melodramatic.John, the hero, he is whiny, whiny, mopey, woe is me.
Yet he can't get over something that happened during the war, even though in no way was it his fault - really, it's basically like he's blaming himself for it having snowed, that's how much it's not his fault.
Belle as the heroine is fine, I liked her, mostly, she's sappy, too.
Second biggest fault in this book: no plot problem, John's "issue" is such a nonissue that it makes the book pointless.
Well, I'm not making a huge review about this book because I don't think it deserves it.I liked the beginning, sounded entertaining and different.
I did loved the characters though, all of them.My problem with this installment was that the romance felt forced and unbelievable.
I hate it when characters get in love in the first week.
But I hate it even more when it becomes extremely cheesy which was the case with this story.
It just felt forced.But if you see each character individually, you can't help to like them,lol.
And there were some extremely funny moments.
Could John get any more maudlin? I mean, for the love of testicles, brother, MAN UP. I got so tired of listening to him whine and throw tantrums and blame himself for something that....OK, you know what, blaming yourself for not acting in time to help someone is one thing, but when he went so far as to say he did it...that was where Quinn lost me. Which totally sucked because I like Belle and John. But melodrama is fast becoming my literary kryptonite, and silly, nonsensical melodrama is like kryptonite laced with rat poison.
But it quickly lost flavor with the sappy heavy-handed dialogue, dull predictable plot and dragged out pacing half way through.
I thought the flashes of memory and John's fear, while over-dramatized, was a nice touch and had great potential.
But of course not even half way in he's pouring out all his secrets and fears to Belle so quickly and it was over and done with.
Made Belle and John and their group of friends come off like bumbling idiots going in circles shaking in fear over a villain who is a complete moron.
Update: After further consideration, I have decided to downgrade my rating to 2.5 stars.
Here's the thing...I liked Belle and John but I didn't really like the prose.
Even though John is whiny one minute then a hero the next, I did still like him.
It was a bit repetitive for me and the author went in a different/darker direction with this one.
I'm a little put off by how quickly the sex arrives in these tales.
I thought young ladies of the ton didn't jump into bed a week after they met someone.
I wavered between 2.5 or 3 stars but will leave it at 3.
una bonita historia de amor, como casi todos los libros suyos, lo que mas me gusta son los personajes, un buen argumento con un bonito final
The second book of the Splendid Trilogy about Emmas wonderful cousin Belle.
But I guess that maybe one gets that unpredictable if one is haunted by the ghosts of his past.Like in Splendid with Woodside the whole story about George Spencer was a bit over dramatic but I still liked the way Belle and John cared for each other in that situation.
I love the scene where he reluctantly helps Belle to steal into the house of John's brother.
Although I'm not sure that 'Persephone Place' is such a better name for John's estate than 'Bletchford Manor' was.
The second book in the Splendid Trilogy, a.k.a. Blydon trilogy and features Belle Blydon.
Alex and Emma from Splendid appear often throughout the book - Emma is pregnant with their first child.
Belle is just completing the Grand Shakespearean Quest in which she is reading all of the plays in alphabetical order.I've read most of Ms Quinn's novels and decided to get a hold of the ones I hadn't.
After reading Splendid, I expected Belle to be paired up with Dunford.
Julia Quinn is the author that started my obsession with historical romances and Dancing at Midnight was one of the first of her books that I tried...after the Bridgerton series, of course.
I love Julia Quinn anyways, but I also love a romance novel in which one (or both) of the main characters has a major emotional battle to overcome.
The usual obstacles are good for a read too, but the ones with emotional road blocks offer a much greater depth to the characters.
All of my favorite romance novels seem to have that as a theme; this is one of those.
As always with one of Quinn's novels, I laughed, I cried, and I fell in love.This is the second book in the Blydon series.
The second book in the Splendid Trilogy. I've read most of Ms Quinn's novels and decided to get a hold of the ones I hadn't. This was one of them. It was a fun read with a dark edge to it. John Blackwood is a wounded war hero who feels guilt due to a deed he felt he should have prevented. Then he meets "Belle". Belle shows John how to dance and live again.
I honestly believe Belle will end up with Dunford but then again I adore this new Hero, John. Love the banters but could be better if the twist didn't seem forced.
Leído en mayo 2009Muy bueno como todas las historias de Julia Q.
This is my least favorite JQ book I have read so far and I really love JQ's writing.
But many, many factors contributed into making this book my least favorite so far.I felt like the main heroine and the hero switched roles.
She was the one making most, if not all the moves which is such a no-no for me and even when John (Lord Blackwood) hurt Belle deeply with either his words or actions, she keeps trying to contact him or trying to win him back which made the rest of the book unpleasant for me.
Overall, it was an okay read.
After reading Splendid, I expected Belle to be paired up with Dunford.
I had a similar feeling of confusion when I read Scandal in Spring because I expected Cam to be the hero.
I didn’t love it like I did Splendid.
That and the ridiculous argument the Belle and John had towards the end of the book.
Don’t get me wrong, I don’t hate them, but I feel like their stories are so much harder to read because they make me so sad.
Those are the only things that stopped me from giving this book five stars.I truly liked John.
I simply can’t wait to read his book!
Such, sadly, is the case with Julia Quinn and Dancing at Midnight.Despite being a bluestocking, Lady Arabella Blydon has been something of a success on the marriage market - unless you count success as receiving a proposal from someone you'd actually want to marry.
No, John's issues are more of the Jekyll & Hyde type, in that he can't go five pages without changing his bloody mind about whether Bella is the best thing that's ever happened to him and let's make smoochy time or if his dark past means he should give her the cut direct and coldly rebuff any attempts at communication.
So, when I found myself disinterested in any "new" books, I picked this up and was happy to discover that it holds up pretty well after all these years.Lady Arabella (Bella) seems like a Regency-era heroine.
Meeting Bella throws his life into chaos and he is forced to face the darkness of his past in order to achieve happiness.I love a good tortured hero and John was one of my first experiences with the trope.
It is not perfect, but it helped pull me out of a reading slump and I found myself wanting to continue working my way through Julia Quinn's backlist again.
Belle está leyendo tranquilamente una de las obras de Shakespeare cuando se ve interrumpida por John Blackwood, por quien rápidamente se siente atraída, pero que le resulta demasiado maleducado.
Poco a poco, la relación entre John y Belle se volverá más sólida y conoceremos que le ocurre a él.Un baile a medianoche es una de esas novelas amenas y entretenidas, que no te deja huella pero te hace pasar una tarde agradable.
En la historia prima el romance, pero también la trama se nutre de pequeñas dosis de acción, sobre todo a medida que nos acercamos al final de la historia.
Bella finds John intriguing.
John, who blames himself for the death of an innocent girl, feels that Bella deserves a better man.
Even though he finds himself falling in love with her, he keeps pushing her away.I really liked both Bella and John and thought they were a great couple.
The only drawback with this book was that I really didn't understand John blaming himself for the young girl's death.
I think that is why I couldn't quite give this book 5 Stars.
Otherwise, I found this book a quick, entertaining read.
My rating: 4.5 Stars.
I thought it had a good story plot, with a little mystery added in.
I loved the poem John wrote for Belle.
Even thought John struggled with his past and did not feel worthy to marry Belle, he couldn't bear to think she might marry someone who wouldn't approve of her reading (bluestocking) or someone who might be cruel to her.
Belle was so good for the moody John Blackwood and helped him to realize his own black moods put limitations on his abiblities such as he didn't think he could dance with his injured knee.
I'm sorry Julia Quinn, but this was the worse book I have ever read by you. The beginning started out great.... And then... It slowly faltered into a downward spiral. The plot was unbelievably ridiculous. John was bipolar with two personalities. Belle, previously I found endearing, became a scatter brain in her own story. The one star is for Persephone, the only enjoyable character of the lot.
A little too light-hearted for me in my current state of mind. Not much of a plot, either.
O carte superba! Mi-a placut la fel de mult ca Splendid!
It reminded me so very much of my college years, when boyfriends had to sneak into dorm rooms via ironwork fire escapes, and sometimes, yes, even climb trees to find a little romance.
(Note to my younger Goodreads friends: Finding romance at a small, conservative, private college in the Midwest in the 1970's was much more akin to finding it in early 19th century England than it is anywhere at all today.
But, honestly, you really haven't fully lived until you've helped a friend sneak her boyfriend into the dorm through the trash chute.) 3 stars from me, and Julia -- thanks for the memories!
