https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400878.Sweet_Silver_Blues
My apologies to the legion of Dresdenites who may be about to burn me in effigy...but Garrett's files are far more entertaining to peruse than those of Jim Butcher's more famous creation. And while I enjoy many aspects of the Dresden stories, Harry himself annoys the bejesus outta me and taints my happy when I read them. I had SO MUCH MORE FUN with this story and this character. Garrett is a hard-boiled, freelance Private Investigator in a world in which humans live and work alongside a variety
Garrett is a hard-boiled, freelance Private Investigator in a world in which humans live and work alongside a variety...and I mean a VARIETY...of different fantasy races called "breeds." Garrett's a smart, sarcastic "ex-marine" who quips and comments his way through the narrative and had me laughing out loud on more than one occassion.
THOUGHTS:As someone who enjoys fantasy stories that contain a variety of different races shown in fresh ways, I had a lot of fun with Cook's original take on some standard fantasy tropes.
Here's a list of just a few that I thought were cool:Grolls: See above...this description gives you a good idea of Garrett's "tone" throughout the book.
It's a fun plot that centers on tracking down a mysterious dame for an inheritance, a woman who just happened to be Garrett's first love.Cook's trademark paucity of details is a perfect match for the hard-boiled detective.
It echoes the hard-boiled detective, where the investigator is caught in events larger than his limited scope.I have to wonder if Morley's silly naming was intentional; it was such an unusual name within the book's world as well.
I definitely enjoyed this book, my first read by Mr. Glen Cook, and the first of many, I think.
The narrative is on the terse side, which I do like, but at times I did have to reread to make sure I was getting the drift.The characters stand out, particularly Garrett.
Although Cook keeps the action nicely interspersed in with the often-times humorous narrative, the climax was fantastic in its intensity, as Garrett and his crew take on a whole nest of vamps.Although I did love straight mysteries growing up, I love fantasy/paranormal mysteries even more.
DNF'ing at 65%.I tried, really I did.
I'm into mystery/noir, I'm into fantasy, and I'm highly into the cross-genre mash-up of them both.
Plus, I'm a big fan of Glen Cook from his Chronicles of the Black Company books.
The world-building was pretty slick, and it had the banter down pat, but....meh.
Just meh.Maybe because I've read some pretty amazing noir and some pretty amazing fantasy over the past few months, and my delight needed something MAJORLY done right to overcome my high expectations.
Either way, I'm pretty bummed.
I thought I'd found a new 14-book-or-so series to sink my teeth into.
The two women are never more than annoying, chattering, and good looking background noise, who also happen to need rescuing now and then.So besides sexism and a plot that I couldn't care to keep up with, there was also the issue of the writing style.
The author would point this out to us, probably by Garrett looking significantly at a character or a revelation within the narration...only half the time, I was so confused as to what he was talking about, I would reread the scene a couple times to figure out what I had missed.
A detective novel based in a fantasy world with a tough guy who is also a wise guy.
Add to that an author who has always had the ability to convey humor in the most awful of battle situations (see the Black Company novels), and this looked like a great read.
Unfortunately, I am one of those people that doesn't really like detective stories whether they are based in real life, 19th century London (see Sherlock Holmes), or fantasy worlds.
So don't let the 2 star rating keep you from giving this book a chance, because for me to give a detective novel a "like" probably means it was a damn good read.
I liked the idea of the noir-style detective story in the fantasy setting, and the notion of it being different from most urban fantasy's in that it's set in a fantasy world as opposed to our own.
One reviewer said that it felt more like short scenes stitched together instead of a fully cohesive narrative, and I think that's a really good assessment.
And there were just so much going on, being thrown in almost randomly, but I never felt any real suspense or tension from the odds.
For instance, (view spoiler)[the going into the vampire nest was built up as this hugely dangerous thing, but then seemed generally easy and anti-climactic.
Somewhere in the middle of the book I mentioned it to a friend and described it as what Jim Butcher's Dresden Files would have been if written by Terry Pratchett.
I see this series having much more entertainment value than the Dresden books, and a more subtle and engaging intelligence than Pratchett's body of work.
I'll definitely be reading more of these and hoping Mr Cook is able to live up to the potential that lurks within these pages despite the 'first book in the series' roughness that keeps me from rating it higher.
Garrett hires Morley as his body guard and a few grolls to make the voyage to "The Cantard" -- a nasty place by the way everyone seems to refer to it in the book.
I found myself unable to wait to turn the pages and find out not only what events would happen, but how Glen Cook chooses to describe the events that transpire and the witty rapport between Garrett and Morley -- the half-darkelf muscle-for-hire.
The way he describes the events that take place in the book are usually pretty funny and kept me laughing every other page.
PlotGarrett, a human PI in a world filled with elves, centaurs, gnomes and other assorted non-humans, is hired to find a beneficiary of his late buddy Denny.
None described as nice.
Actually, no one nice seems to live in the dirty world of Cook’s invention.
All of then need the macho guys to protect them.Overall impressionThe pacing is fast, the language clean and sparse, and the story reads easily, but I can’t say that I liked it much.
I read other novels of this subgenre, including Frank Tuttle and Alex Bledsoe, that I liked much better.
**edited 12/15/13In any reasonably thorough exploration of the space of Urban Fantasy, the bizarre combination of hardboiled noir detective stories and fantasy, Glen Cook's Garrett, PI series is definitely a necessary read.
Garrett lives on a totally original, fully-fledged fantasy realm where magic is the norm and dark elves, ratmen, ogres, and more coexist with humans in noisy, busy, and overcrowded cities.
The atmosphere of cities themselves, especially TunFaire, where Garrett lives, feels a bit like Anhk Morpork: a cheerful, amoral chaos where mythical creatures rub shoulders with practical magical inventions.
Cook does a fantastic job twisting common mythical creatures into new, creative, and realistic-feeling versions.
Let me preface this review by stating that I am a BIG fan of Cook's Black Company series and, as such, am predisposed to like Cook's work.
Additionally, as a member of THE privileged class (i.e. a male, college educated, white, anglo/saxon, protestant with a middle class upbringing) I don't react with as much rancor to sexist characters as immediately, or as strongly, as someone who has battled the system to prove their merit in a world where the cards are stacked against them.
I also must point out the obvious, that some of the sexist traits of the "protagonist" are part of the author's whole shtick in penning the novel.
SSB is the first installment of Glen Cook's Garrett series.
Garrett is a "Confidential Agent" in a fantasy world inhabited by elves, gnomes, trolls, vampires, sorcerers, you name it.
The entire series is like American P.I./hard-boiled detective fic combined with fantasy.
When I first read the description I thought: "This is not for me." It sounded hokey.
I am not into fantasy with elves, dwarves and the like.
This book, as with all in the series, is told in first-person from Garrett's POV.
Even if you think this sounds silly or whatever, do yourself a favor and give it a try.
Oh, boy.
I can't say how awesome I thought this book was.
As an opening drum-roll, it works very well.
Introducing characters in a way that lets them live in the history they have together seems to be a specialty for this author.
The only thing I can't decide is which character is my favorite.
Is it Garrett, who can slug it out with Saucerhead Tharpe just before talking dirty-lawyer speak?
Or Morley, who could charm the pants (literally) off just about any woman and still manage to nag Garrett about eating his veggies?
It started out as a snappy mystery novel, then devolved into a whirlwind of all the fantasy creatures you can think of, with inadequate world-building to back it up. Throw in rampant sexism, murder with casual indifference, and a scooby-gang that is capable of bowling over every obstacle in their way, and I've got a headache, plus the urge to throw my Kindle at the wall.
***Sweet Silver Blues by Glen Cook is the first of the Garrett, P.I., novels set in Cook's pseudo-urban/traditional fantasy world.
Glen Cook is perhaps best known for The Black Company series.
The novel weighs in at a modest 311 pages; not long by any means, but, still, it could have been about 50 pages shorter.Although I was not completely satisfied with the storytelling, I did finish Sweet Silver Blues (if that means anything).
I also only read the first of The Black Company books, which were also written by Glen Cook.
I had my reservations about this book from a few pages in as I mistakenly thought I was buying into 
Everyone agrees Glen Cook has mastered the dark side with the black company chronicles.
sweet silver blues is a great entry on the lighter side of fantasy.
Glen Cook sticks to some familiar fantasy archetypes, yet the characters come across as fresh, and far from cliche.
Sweet silver blues delivers a fast paced adventure with quick turns teamed with an unpredictable plot.
If you like a detective that can brawl it out, and has a penchant for self abuse, and a cynical outlook on life.
I will definetly be reading into Cooks detective/Fantasy crossover.
Glen Cook is one of my favorite authors and Garrett is my favorite character of his, well actually this whole series is chock full of some of my favorite characters.
He is the type of character I would write for myself if I could write halfway decently.That being said, Sweet Silver Blues introduces you to Garrett and his world.
Fantasy meets detective in this novel and Garrett is just smart and tough enough with help to get the job done.No this book does not get 5 stars from me because it is a literary masterpiece it gets 5 stars because I love the characters and the world that they live in.
I actually stopped "reading" this about a third of the way in and skimmed through the rest of the book.
The story just lost my interest.
Not to mention it was overly convoluted, with names and places and people flying this way and that.
I get that the author was trying to develop some sort of conspiracy, but it felt awkward and forced.
When I started the book, I was reminded strongly of Jim Butcher's Dresden Files and Simon R.
Green's Nightside books.
That said, I enjoyed the Dresden Files and Nightside books a hell of a lot more than I did Sweet Silver Blues.
I probably didn't do this book any favours in the way I read it (battered old pb which I read in bits and pieces, as for example, while brushing my teeth), but also never quite got over the OTT-for-my-liking "hardboiled" attitudes to the female characters in the book.
This started with Rose, who consistently "needed" a spanking (and got one), and who apparently justified the need by threatening Garrett that she'd claim he raped her if he didn't do what she wanted him to.
Pity, because I enjoyed the set-up and quite a lot about the story, and suspect the series could become more to my taste if I read more.
The to-read shelf is groaning as it is, though, so I probably won't.
I'd have to re-read the Garrett mysteries to review them all fairly. They're distinctive and complex enough, plot-wise, that they lend themselves nicely to re-reading. This one introduces the characters and the situation. Picture a mash-up between standard fantasy, gritty fantasy, Rex Stout, and detective noir. Garrett doesn't always stay consistent on the "charming detective" versus "guy willing to beat up women" scale of hard-bitten P.Is. But this series is a lot more hopeful than much of Cook's other work. Highly recommended.
A fantasy mystery detective novel! What a peculiar combination! But under the pen of Glen Cook it works marvelously well. This book had everything one might want or expect from a fantasy / detective story: hard-boiled & unique characters, tangled & mysterious plots, lots of action & grit, funny & witty dialogue, fantastical monsters & crazy magic... should I go on? If you like the things I just mentioned, read it; you won't be disappointed!
Re-read, read this back in the late 80's. A hard boiled mystery that's a cross between epic fantasy, Nero Wolfe and the The Big Sleep , right down to the father client with the two wild girls. Garrett's Wolfe is a dead man and not as interested in food and flowers as sleep. I have to agree with another reviewer here that I find Garrett much more entertaining then Harry Dresden.
Great book. I've always hated the covers, but I suppose it thematically gets the point across: these are hard-boiled urban fantasy novels from the Raymond Chandler school, set in a world with elves, dwarves, trolls, and etc. Light reading, and very addictive.
Not the best in this series, but a fun start for a fantasy noir, unique at the time. I gave it an extra star for transforming unicorns into nasty, aggressive pack animals.
On the other hand, they can't be worse than this book.) And I've seen Laura at least a dozen times.The storytelling in this novel felt so choppy, leaving the plot feeling convoluted.
The most annoying characters who serve zero purpose other than to have someone to rescue (repeated - seriously, Rose had to be "rescued" like 5 or 6 times, at least) or someone to f*@% (pardon my French).
If the plot, story-telling and character development had been better, it may have been a good book.
And I don't remember them being annoyingly and unnecessarily sexist, like this book.
As befitting all mysteries this one has a lot more going on, drawing from Garrett's old marine days serving his country of Karenta and an old flame to exploring more sordid elements of TunFaire's criminal underbelly as he's forced by circumstance to enlist aid for his endeavor, but that's something you should explore for yourself if you pick up Sweet Silver Blues.Seeing is this one is a detective mystery I can go even less into detail than I usually would, but I'd still like to point out I really did appreciate the fact it IS a mystery novel first and foremost instead of being an exercise for Cook to show off his fantasy setting.
I've got mixed feelings about this one.I like the universe, classic fantasy setting, with a large variety of species (most classical, but some with a twist), some magic but not overpowering..The type of story reminded me of Steven Brust's Vlad Talos books, and to a lesser extend the Dresden files..
One of those i had faced across a table in Full Harbor, in a house where i had loved another in whom the disease was only a few years along and still reversible.
Cook throws around with names of species, parties, animals and seem to expect the reader to know the universe as well as he does..
I don't know if that was down to some unfamiliar (old fashioned?) nouns, the lack of enough "he said / she said" notation in places or just me losing concentration...The flow just felt a little disjointed at times, like I'd missed something.That aside, I did quite enjoy the book.
The story had some curious turns that kept it interesting throughout and the protagonist is a very likeable character.
Although I'll never trust a unicorn again!One of my favourite things about this story are the wonderful little quote-able phrases found in its pages.
I hope I can hi-light more in Cooks other books.
