https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119427.The_Secret_Diary_of_Laura_Palmer
ONLY TWO MORE HOURS, GUYS!!TWELVE HOURS UNTIL NEW TWIN PEAKSES!!!
Tomato Tomahto.)PRE REVIEWSo I went to work today after the crappiest, crappiest day yesterday and one of the waitresses runs up to me with this book and this book and told me she got drunk a few weeks ago and drunkenly ordered them for me because she knew I wanted them so bad.
I much preferred the film "Fire Walk With Me" which followed Laura in her last weeks before her death.
Plus the film has Lil.And the man himself.And a much better (and more likable) Laura Palmer.2.5 stars rounded up (because Twin Peaks).

My life is whatever the other person in the room wants it to be. - Laura Palmer I would recommend this book to: Fans of Twin Peaks and / or people interested in troubled teenage girls, the subconscious and horror.The Beginning: Dear Diary, My name is Laura Palmer, and as of just three short minutes ago, I officially turned twelve years old!I finished the Twin Peaks series a few weeks ago and loved every single episode. Imagine how intrigued I was to learn that there was a Laura Palmer diary wri
I would recommend this book to: Fans of Twin Peaks and / or people interested in troubled teenage girls, the subconscious and horror.The Beginning: Dear Diary, My name is Laura Palmer, and as of just three short minutes ago, I officially turned twelve years old!I finished the Twin Peaks series a few weeks ago and loved every single episode.
Throughout Twin Peaks, Laura Palmer is a mystery to us: The perfect straight A student whose double life is revealed to us in glimpses.
Laura’s “conversations” with BOB and her attempts to get him out of her head were one of the most horrifying things I’ve ever read.
Rusty's the biggest Twin Peaks fan I know, so I thought he'd surely have a suggestion for a book (or series) I could love as much as Twin Peaks.
I had no idea that this book existed, so I immediately downloaded it to my Kindle on his suggestion and put off watching the prequel movie to the series because he swore that I had to read this first.I'd been trying to figure out what made me enjoy Twin Peaks so much, and I think it's this:1.
There weren't any quirky items or memorable catch phrases.
been meaning to read this for about twenty years, and found it sitting by the register at my favorite used bookstore for 2 bucks the other day...
it's actually a pretty good read, totally convincing as a young girl's diary, pretty disturbing at times, with a lot of really memorable scenes, and definitely took me right back to twin peaks and all the time i spent watching and thinking about the show.
got to a point where it definitely seemed they were just throwing in references to other people in town like they were checking names off a list...
still, though, an interesting read, i'm glad i finally got around to it.
Yes, I watched Twin Peaks as a child.
And I'm pretty sure I was the only fifth-grader wearing a "You are a stranger here but once" shirt displaying the infamous "Welcome to Twin Peaks, population 51,201" sign.
(It's funny that not even any of the teachers confronted me about it, either.
But, on the other hand, without Twin Peaks my delicate childhood mind wouldn't have been forever addled by the artistry of one David Lynch, whose dark comedy helped shape my psyche.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sFAO7...Foi a série que mais me marcou e a melhor de sempre, na minha opinião.Não vale a pena ler este livro, sem ter visto a série "Twin Peaks" pois não vão entender nada.Este livro são os 7 dias antes do assassinato da Laura Palmer.
Utterly amazing!So when Sheryl Lee was going to be at the Twin Peaks festival I bought another copy of this book to have her sign.
This was a novelisation written when Twin Peaks was being aired to give the back-story of Laura Palmer and her dealings with BOB.
A few months ago I started watching Twin Peaks again, and found myself once more obsessing over Laura Palmer.
Tragic because Laura felt that she was such a freak because she had been so victimised and was unable to cope with that as the abuse was continual.
But once again I felt well and truly dragged into the story and great compassion and sympathy for Laura.
Credo che ogni appassionato della serie leggerebbe con gran trasporto la prima parte del volume che ci mostra aspetti sinora sconosciuti di Laura Palmer: una ragazzina che ha scelto di adottare un comportamento dissoluto e autodistruttivo, per costruirsi una sorta di armatura all’interno della quale potesse sentirsi al sicuro dal famigerato BOB, che pure qui fa qualche fugace - ma non per questo meno inquietante - apparizione.Il problema è proprio la condotta dell’autrice del diario che ad un certo punto preme troppo sull’acceleratore, abbandonandosi ad eccessi inverosimili (nonostante la connotazione sovrannaturale di Twin Peaks).
http://verovsky-meninadospoliciais.bl...
Em primeiro lugar adoro livros em forma de diário. Este é um diário de uma "adolescente" que fala de drogas, sexo, erros múltiplos sem consciência e de desejos obscuros.
former survivor), but a girl who had been consistenly abused since childhood.(Obviously, if you haven't seen Twin Peaks, don't read on)This is an utterly bizarre book, as befits the life of a girl from this peculiar town.
The book also does nothing to dispel the series' biggest question: how in the name of BOB did Laura manage to become homecoming queen, tutor residents in English, serve meals to the elderly, mentor a mentally handicapped man, and attend eight hours of school a day, even as she juggled two serious boyfriends, a half-dozen extra men, run cocaine, and still have time to jet off to far-flung parts of the state for threesomes with Teresa Banks?I love this book both because and in spite of the flaws in Lynch's writing style.
It's more similar to Fire Walk With Me (the Twin Peaks film) than the series, as it traces Laura's life from her 12th birthday to a few days before her death.
It doesn't actually reveal who BOB is, so you can read this book without having seen all the episodes from the show.I thought the book did a great job in what it was supposed to do: Give Laura greater depth, flesh out the BOB character, and show a deeper, darker look into the town of Twin Peaks.
What a fascinating, surreal, disturbing book. It's a tie in for Twin Peaks, obviously, so probably wouldn't mean much to a non-fan, but as a fan I have to say this book is really engrossing. It's Laura from Laura's POV, which you never get in the show since she is found dead "wrapped in plastic" in the first episode.If anything, it makes everything going on with Laura even more insidious, more terrifying, especially when you know who BOB is while you are reading it. Truly haunting.
Sabe por que tranquei meu TCC esse ano? Porque eu tinha que estudar Twin Peaks, oras. Sério. Eu sabia que ia acabar me dedicando mais às coisas relativas a David Lynch do que meu próprio TCC, então achei melhor trancá-lo. Assim, agora finalmente pude ler o diário de Laura Palmer, este que pode não ser uma grande obra literária, mas que evidentemente dá um gostinho a mais para quem acompanhou o seriado e Fire walk with me.
A estreia da terceira temporada da série ao fim destes anos todos foi o pretexto para a reedição deste O Diário Secreto de Laura Palmer (já publicado entre nós em 1991, pela editora Terramar), que me fez finalmente tomar a iniciativa de ver “Twin Peaks”.E assim fiz: num fim-de-semana de agosto, embrenhei-me nas densas florestas da localidade de Twin Peaks e acompanhei as vidas dos seus habitantes após a descoberta do corpo da jovem Laura Palmer, de 17 anos.
OK, so I'm a pretty big Twin Peaks fan, so I'd thought I'd read Laura Palmer's "diary." I wish I could say I loved it, but I actually was really disturbed and/or annoyed by it instead.Laura Palmer is a young girl of 12 when the diary starts, and she is getting to third base with 22 year old men.
Obviously the only people who are going to read this book are Twin Peaks fans, so why weren't certain facts checked??
I just felt kinda dirty after reading this book, but maybe I'm just a prude.
I never watched the show. This book was fascinating - dark, twisted, extremely sexually graphic, drug filled, and the ending leaves you wondering what happened. I read this several times growing up and always found it interesting and well-written. You had to love the troubled and flawed protagonist, and it was clever how the book was written in a full diary style, the writing changing based on what was going on at the time.
I read this book for the first time when I was in grade 8. It was passed around secretly. I guess older sisters or moms wouldn't have like to see us read this book? Now I own a copy and read it in my 20s. I kinda see why it was a secret...
My uncle gave me this for Xmas when I was like 11 years old. Thank god he didn't read the first ten pages.
4,5*Opinião originalmente publicada aqui.Ao começar a folhear o livro, antes mesmo dos prefácio de Mark Frost e David Lynch, deparamo-nos com uma reprodução em tons de cinzento da fotografia do baile de finalistas de Laura Palmer.
Digo isto porque eu não conseguiria viver sem saber o que aconteceu depois de Laura ter fechado o seu diário pela última vez, e estou a projectar-me no caro leitor.
Twin Peaks começa exactamente onde o diário termina; fiquei com uma imensa vontade de rever a série.À parte disso, é ao mesmo tempo terrivelmente angustiante e morbidamente interessante observar a espiral descendente da mente de Laura pela sua própria mão.
the secret diary of laura palmer, written by jennifer lynch (david lynch's daughter), follows the life of a young girl from the ages of 12 until 17 as she experiments with sex, drugs, and giving into our most base -- and sometimes worst -- impulses.
david lynch, creator of twin peaks, whispered the name of laura's killer in his daughter's ear so that she could write the book with that knowledge guiding her.
And the complete series, of course (first on VHS(!!), then on DVD and now on Blu-Ray.) And (though I suspect I'm in the minority), I think "Fire Walk With Me" actually added a substantial amount to the mythos of Twin Peaks.And so we come to "The Secret Diary of Laura Palmer." And this book freaked me the f**k out when I first read it.
(Keep in mind that I was considerably younger when I first read it!)Sure, looking back now, it's not the best-written book (though, in it's defense, it's SUPPOSED to be the diary of a teenage girl), but the visceral impact remains it had remains with me after the re-read, especially in the wake of knowing who "Bob" is, and what happens in "Fire Walk With Me".
Laura is a teenager with a double life; she's a nice, clean and popular girl and at the same time a drug addict engaged in dangerous sexual games.. And she has a terrible secret into the bargain...This book is a fable about the fears, obsessions and dreams of teenagers displayed in a distorted, nightmarish story. Not a masterpiece but certainly an interesting part of the Twin Peaks world.
I first read this when I was ten, for the sex bits, and then my mom took it away from me. I got my copy as a break-up score when I was seventeen (take that, Zach!). The best part is thinking about what might be on the ripped out pages.
http://viajarpelaleitura.blogspot.pt/...
I read this book when it first came out back in the 90's and I loved it.
Okay I admit, my teenage self was a little obsessed with the book, the movie and the show!!!
Waiting patiently each week for a new episode, to get more clues on who was BOB and who had killed Laura Palmer!
Im a "little" bit older now and though the book was still a good read, it didn't hold the same excitement and interest as it did when I was 16!
But id still recommend it to anyone who was a fan of the show!
Τουίν Πικς... σκέτη μαγεία!https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2017/...
Lynch's handle on the voice of Laura as she grows and changes is a large part of the book's success; it's impressive, and justifiably noticeable rather than a subtle approach.This offers a different side of Twin Peaks, told without the intervention of network censors, more in line with what Fire Walk With Me would become.
Large swathes of material are missing towards the end, making you wonder if Lynch had written and redacted them or if they were never completed.More of a tchotchke than a literary supplement, The Secret Diary of Laura Palmer is exactly the sort of book that has a high chance of turning you off, but if it draws you in, it draws you right in.
