https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339040.Imogene_s_Antlers
I know this is far from a new book, but it's not a bit dated.
I remembered reading and loving the humorous and charmingly illustrated story when I was a new reader, and now, twenty-two years later, my four-year-old has decided it's her new favorite book.
Just a touch of the extraordinary presented in a very matter-of-fact, non-scary way.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.***
I enjoyed this book because its ridiculous plot teaches a valuable lesson, which makes both the story and its theme more memorable for all who read it.
Imogene's Antlers has a simple message: everyone is different, but even the things that people think are "weird" about you can be useful.
This is a great source for parents and teachers to help children practice making predictions or telling stories, as you could ask readers to predict what happens after she grows her feathers.
Overall, I enjoyed this silly, simple plot, and the youthful illustrations, as they provide for a good read and an even better message!
Today was the first time I'd ever read this book (and the second and third too).
The boys thought is was "so funny".
For some reason they think fainting is the height of humor and thought it was hilarious that the mom faints three times in the book.
The illustrations are fantastic and the story is fun.
They had a great time making up all the things that would happen to her in the following days.
The best one was "nacho ears with salsa dripping from them....but it would hurt if someone tried to eat them."A great little book to read with your littles.
I read Small's affectingly sad memoir Stitches and had never read any of his children's illustrated books so when this one caught my eye at the library I thought I'd take a closer look at it and bring it home for the kids. This is my kind of kid book, with an edge to it, quirky, strange. A girl wakes up in the morning with elk antlers. What problems does that cause? Made me think of Sweet Tooth, that Jeff Lemire dystopian comic series, where the main kid has antlers… the comparison ends there, though! :)
I'm not sure why everyone adores this book, it was just kinda silly to me. But kids seem to love it. Considering how old this book is, the great part about it is how it feels current. It isn't dated at all.
Imogene's Antlers, by David SmallThis book is about a girl who wakes up with antlers on her head.
Then, others around her find good use of her antlers, and make the best out of them.
When the girl goes to bed, she wakes up without the antlers.
Her family is excited, but then, to their surprise, she has peacock feathers behind her!This children's book has a hidden message.
From the pictures though, it looks like the little girl comes from an upper class family with a nice home, hence why her family tries to cover her antlers up.
Check out Imogene’s Antlers by David Small.
It is SO funny, and has beautiful illustrations!
It’s written and illustrated by David Small.The story goes into fantasy–a little girl, Imogene, wakes up one morning with antlers.
At first she encounters some problems (getting dressed, getting out the door), but then she also discovers some fun–hanging donuts off the antlers, feeding birds that way, having her mother faint.
I think kids will delight in the adults’ reactions–her mother fainting away (twice), the principal getting bugged, the doctor unable to find anything wrong.The text is beautiful–just enough to tell the story, but not overdoing it.
And the illustrations!
Wonderful having Kiersten read this one.
And the idea...I loved it.5/11/10 & 5/13/10 This was a PERFECT read for preschool storytime.
Thu. group was rather low-key, but I think they still liked seeing this girl with antlers.4/11/12 My opener of "That's Silly" theme, this definitely set the tone.
I tend to have a younger preschool crowd, so some of the words in this were unfamiliar.
Two older girls helped get the crowd into the book.
Adults definitely enjoyed it.
Everyone loved the end.2/19/14: Part of my "That's Crazy" theme.
Kids loved it, especially the doughnuts part.
They also loved the ending.
I think this story is pretty cute. It's simple and just plain odd. I can imagine a kid would get a kick out of it. It is a picture book, so of course there is no in depth explanation of how she got antlers. But as an adult, you've got to wonder how it happened and could it all be in her imagination or a dream?
What a blast from the past!! I saw this off on the side of recommendations, but I hadn't thought about it in years. I need a re-read for a proper rating and review, but I do remember this fondly.
This is a lovely book and story on several levels. First one never knows what the new day will bring. Second, not everything needs an explanation. Third, you may have problems, but there is always good things about you. Fourth, you may never please your mother or those in authority, because you’re different. Fifth, true friends accept you as you are.
Then Imogene goes to sleep, and the next day she wakes up without antlers, but she's got a peacock tail.I think this book's message is, "Embrace differences." Basically, her mother is the only one that's got a problem with it (well, and the school principal, who is shown as glaring at her but having no advice to offer).
She just takes it like a champ, just keeps going and finds all kinds of cool things to do with her condition.
The book is basically saying, "Some people are different than other people and it's okay.
This book would be great to use in a kindergarten classroom for a number of reasons.
Not only are they short, they also include vocabulary that students in this age group could easily comprehend.
Another reason covers the author’s creatively humorous drawings that readers of all ages can enjoy.
At this age level, reading can be difficult for many children.
My final reason for including this book in a kindergarten classroom is the lesson that this story provides to its readers.
A fun activity to do with students would involve asking them what they would do if they woke up with antlers, have them write down their answer and then complete it with a drawing.
This is a fun, humorous, and well-illustrated book about a girl named Imogene who wakes up to find that she has grown antlers.
Due to her antlers, everyday jobs become quite a challenge for her.
This is a great story to teach about differences in individuals and how you shouldn't take those differences for granted.
The illustrations are expressive and colorful and present the story very well.
With its silliness, this would make for a really good book within classrooms to teach about accepting differences or just reading out loud for a good laugh.
I would strongly recommend this book to be an addition in every library.
In this quirky tale a girl wakes up one morning with antlers, the doctor and the principle are called to advise, her mother faints repeatedly, and her brother declares her a “miniature elk.” The antlers become quite useful as drying racks and candleholders.
A huge hat is custom made to cover up the antlers but fails to meet the approval of mother.
All is well the next morning as the antlers are gone but wait there’s a new surprise.
David Small illustrates this tale in soft warm shades but with very poignant facial expressions especially that of the principle upon seeing Imogene’s antlers.
Lauren's Review:I read Imogene's Antlers by David Small on February 5, 2012.1. What was your favorite part of this book?When Imogene fed the birds with the doughnuts stacked on her antlers!2. Was this book funny, sad, silly, or boring?It was a fun book.3. Who was your favorite character?Imogene, the girl who had the antlers grow out of her head.4. Would you tell your best friend to read this book?She should.
I found a lovely 1985 edition of this book without any markings or damages whatsoever.
Those who follow Mr. Hankins know that he is a huge David Small fan, and when David talked about his book in the new documentary, LIBRARY OF THE EARLY MIND, I jumped at the chance to find this book.
Imogene awakes one morning to find that she has grown antlers on her head.
. .and ultimately, creative solutions to Imogene's new head gear.
Whimsical story telling with Small's classic characterizations, Imogene's Antlers would make a nice picture book "ladder" to Kafka's THE METAMORPHOSIS.
Mi-a fost interesant felul în care Imogene, o fetiță de vreo 10 ani, a reacționat la faptul că i-au crescut peste noapte ditamai coarne de cerb. A acceptat acest lucru ca pe o glumă, sau o aventură. Ca și metamorfoza de la sfârșit. Faza cu "going trough a door now took some thinking" e tare. De fapt, cu excepţia mamei care mereu leşină şi a directorului de şcoală care a privit urât, toată lumea din jur pare curioasă sau amuzată.
Those antlers are amazing. And Imogene keeps such a great attitude--I love the way she feeds the birds. I just wish I could ask David Small if her name should be pronounced Ima-jean or Ihm-o-jean. I don't know why, it just bugs me not knowing. I called her "Ihm-o-jean" forever and ever, and then I heard someone else read it the other way. Does anyone know David Small personally? Would you ask him for me?
This is a very funny story about a little girl who grows antlers. The narrative is simple and the illustrations are great. It has an old fashioned feel to it, which makes sense because it was written in 1945. Our youngest listened to this book read on audiocassette in the car four times straight and loved it.
The surprise ending really did it for me. Kind of like "Bark, George."
a funny story about a little girl who learns to be careful what she wishes for
Been a long time since I last read this one. Reissued for 25th anniversary of publication.
This was my read out loud book. I picked it because I thought the kids would get a catch out of a girl with antlers. It also made you think what will she do??
I. This story begins when Imogene wakes up to antlers that have sprouted from her head. Throughout the day everyone in this story makes positive fun of her new appendages and the challenges she encounters with them. The only person who continues to faint at the sight of her is her mom. Eventually she goes to sleep and when she wakes up the antlers are gone, however she has sprouted a full peacock plum. II. The major theme of this book is being accepting of individual differences not only of othe
I.	This story begins when Imogene wakes up to antlers that have sprouted from her head.
The major theme of this book is being accepting of individual differences not only of others but within ourselves.
The best part of this book is that it brings humor to the very important subject of acceptance of differences.
This was one of my favorite books growing up and I feel that it taught me to deal with my own insecurities, and be able to smile and love myself and others.
V.	I recommend this book because all humans at one point in our lives will experience some sort of insecurities about our differences.
Summary: Imogene wakes up one day with a set of elk antlers.
By the end of the story Imogene has lost her antlers when she wakes up the next morning, but realizes that she now has peacock feathers instead.Evaluation: I really like this story and how creative it is.
In addition to that I would have them predict what will happen to her next, since she lost the antlers, and then gained peacock feathers.
I would have the students then do an independent creative writing activity on why they think their prediction will happen next and what will Imogene will do because of it.
David Small's humorous drawings introduce us to Imogene, a girl with a most unusual problem.
Yes, antlers do not fit through doors very well, but they are very good for drying dish towels, or hanging donuts on, for birds to eat.
It is a very 'eventful' day for Imogene, but it's nothing that can't be solved by a good night's sleep.
Until the next morning, when the antlers are gone, but Imogene has another lovely surprise for her family.
I don't think there's a lesson here, except maybe kids just love to be silly.
Also, some of us are freaks, but this shouldn't cause a fainting fit.
This was one of my favorite children book my mother use to read to me, and something I learn to read on my own. It's a cute book explaining how Imogene learn how to deal with changes in her life and make the best of it. This something to teach children on how things can unexpectedly chance overnight.
Bercerita tentang Imogene yang pas bangun tiba-tiba punya tanduk rusa dewasa di kepala. OMG ceritanya bikin ngaqaque. Pas bagian tanduk Imogene dicantelin donat, Babangse langsung ngerasa, damn, jadi kepengen punya tanduk juga. Kan seru ya, gantungin cemilan kesukaan di tanduk, berasa piknik terus dehhh! Ending-nya anjrit nggak nyangka dan bikin ngaqaque lagi. 😆😆😆
Imogene’s antlers cause quite a stir, for humans are not to grow antlers! They prove to be useful for several tasks but will the novelty wear off? What will happen next? Delightful illustrations complement this funny tale.
