https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12112541-dragon-harvest
Dragon’s Harvest covers the period between 1938 and 1940.For those fortunate readers who began with the first book, World’s End, and have followed the exciting life of Lanny Budd recognize him as the world renowned art expert and ultra secret presidential agent for FDR.
Lanny is able to accomplish this double life as a result of his relationship with Kurt Meissner, a boyhood chum, recognized throughout Germany as a great composer, and close friend of Hitler, as well as the business relationship between Lanny’s father, Robbie, and Hermann Goring.
Another riveting (and oh-so-timely) installment in Sinclair's 11-volume "Lanny Budd" series of novels.
Perhaps more chilling in this volume, Sinclair shines his withering critical light on those in France, the UK and America who thought fascism would be the answer at home --including such famous Americans as Charles Lindbergh, Henry Ford, and William Randolph Hearst (two of whom Lanny meets in this volume)--to the rise of labor unions and demands from the economically and socially oppressed.
And I never tire of Upton Sinclair's uniquely witty and insightful combination of tongue-in-cheek and deadly seriousness.
These Lanny Budd books are flat-out addictive; reading them means living in that time and place. Though I have read a number of book series (Ross Poldark by Winston Graham, Richard Sharp by Bernard Cornwell, etc.), this one has consumed me more than most. Perhaps it is the 20th century time frame in that its history is more familiar to me, though it is set before I was born (not by much!) Will I be able to resist jumping right into the next one without taking a breath? Hard to say...
There may be some spoilers for earlier books.Lanny Budd number six continues the curious mixture of adventure, suspense, history, and romance of this series.
(You can read these books stand-alone, but they are much better read in sequence.) Lanny Budd continues his dual life, using his cover as a world-beating art expert to disguise his activities as a secret agent (presidential agent) working directly for FDR.The action takes place mostly during 1939.
All the time Lanny is shuttling around between Germany, France, England, and the USA doing his presidential agent thing.
(hide spoiler)]There is an incredible amount of detail in all these books.
Fiction
Great series. My book was printed in 1946 or so but had never read it until about 3 years ago.
This series keeps getting better and better. It's like European history told as a novel.
