https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10790290-theft-of-swords
I'm the author of this book, so I'm not going to do a rating but I did want to take just a moment to say a few words about what I was trying to do in this book.For those who don't know, I wrote all six books in the series before publishing any of them (truth be told when I wrote the books I had no intention on publishing at all).
My intention was to start small and end big, with the mysteries deepening and the stakes escalating with each book.
UPDATE: $2.99 on Kindle US 7-20-17.The two books in this tome are AMAZEBALLS!Book 1 - The Crown of ConspiracyI fell in love with Hadrian Blackwater and Royce Melborn right off the bat.
Count Pickering's peeps aren't all going to get there in time so Alric sends Royce and Hadrian ahead to save Arista (which they do) ha, it's so awesome and funny.
Let's just say some peeps are beheaded and things are set right (for now) Oh and they leave a little message on the wall of a jerk that was going to side with the evil uncle.
The characters in the cover clearly don’t match the description mentioned in the book and I’m pretty sure it also doesn’t match what’s in the author’s head.
Even though this kind of structure doesn’t work for me as an individual installments in books, it could still work as a series and I really can’t wait to see how this all plays out in the end.Michael J Sullivan’s writing is very simple and really easy to read.
Two words.MIND.BLOWING.  “Riyria.It's elvish for two.”  What happens when a sarcastic thief/former assassin and an idealistic mercenary/brilliant swordsman get in the way of a conspiracy for world domination? Epic fantasy at its finest ,that's the answer.Include some legends about a God's heir who is going to unite the world,a plotting Church with a secret agenda,Elves who are waiting for the opportune moment to gain their lands back,swordfights,prostitutes,monks,hidden prisons and witches and t
In the mythical land of Elan,where empires rise and fall,nobles and priests scheme,Elves are mistreated by the humans and witchcraft is a vile thing,a duet of thieves has become a legend.Royce Melborn and Hadrian Blackwater couldn't be more different.Hadrian is the talkative one,who shows compassion and kindness,who wants to do the right thing,something that's not always working for him since he is a mercenary.On the other hand,Royce is cold,sarcastic,calculative and ruthless,he lurks in the shadows and can kill without making a sound.When this bizarre duo was framed for the murder of a king and the only way to save their lives was to keep alive the prince and free a dangerous prisoner,they interfered in a grand conspiracy set to alter the governments and the structure of the realms of Men.And when they were hired to steal a magical sword from an elvish tower while a monster terrorized the nearby village,they got in the way of some very powerful people who did not tolerate such disturbances.
(3.5) A fun escapist fantasy. Will continue the series!
Anyway I didn't hate reading this book it was well written and had a good plot, it just had so many issues, like for one the strange POV that it is told in.
Like I literally didn't see any badassery from either of the two Main Characters in The Crown Conspiracy or any good proper fights in either book *snorts* boring, I feel book two did pick up the pace and was more interesting but it was still just cliche and abit boring.
This is me also and this is why I hate camping.Time to talk about my favorites,Myron, seriously I LOVE HIM.
Theft of Swords is a compilation of two books, The Crown Conspiracy and Avempartha.
In both of the novels the heroes, Hadrian and Royce, were hired to steal a sword, which causes a downward effect of dangerous adventures.
Not simply, because they have cool skills, like Hadrian with his swords, or Royce with his stealth, but of comedic interactions with one another.
Royce with I hate everyone demeanor and Hadrian wanting to save everyone, but they have a great relationship that keeps them alive.
So YES I will be reading the whole series, especially because I bought the next two books with my Christmas money.
Those that know me, are aware that I never rate or review my own books. But I do use this space as a way to update you on things that you might find interesting. Update: 06/19/18 -- Theft of Swords was picked by Barnes and Noble's Sci-fi and Fantasy blog as one of their 12 favorite heist stories with a fantasy twist. Click here to read the full story and see all the picks. Update: 10/14/16 -- Today only! Theft of Swords (Riyria Revelations #1 & #2) is $2.99 as part of Amazon's Daily Deal. Th
Update: 06/19/18 -- Theft of Swords was picked by Barnes and Noble's Sci-fi and Fantasy blog as one of their 12 favorite heist stories with a fantasy twist.
Theft of Swords (Riyria Revelations #1 & #2) is $2.99 as part of Amazon's Daily Deal.
The book has 37,300 4 & 5 star reviews on Amazon, Goodreads, and Audible.com.
And, it's part of the Whispersync program, so if you buy the ebook, you can get the audio book deeply discounted as well.Update: 06/05/16 Theft of Swords was chosen for 
Besides Theft of Swords there are a lot of other great fantasy titles on sale including:
*3.5 stars*This was such a fun, fast read.Theft of Swords has everything a fantasy reader wants: engaging characters, good plot, appropriate world building...
what lets it down is that I was never quite invested in the lives of our 2 male leads, Royce and Hadrian.If that wasn't disappointing enough, Sullivan ensured that the male characters were relevant while the women were depicted as either evil or prostitutes.
Further, the scope of the world building was slightly simplistic, falling far short of my ultimate fantasy world flag bearer- Grishaverse (Created by Leigh Bardugo).
The king was assassinated, someone set up Hadrian and Royce, our "mercenaries for hire" as fall guys.
The narrative starts to expand and we're let in on some BIG things that are yet to come.The story is continued about a year after The Crown Conspiracy and Royce and Hadrian are called in to help a village that has been ravaged by a monster that has taken residence in the area.At this same time, the church of Nyphron has been setting its own plan in motion, calling for a secret competition, of which no one even knows the location.With all the mystery and suspense, there was not a point of view I wasn't dying to read, I'm not joking when I say I couldn't put it down.
While it is apparent that there is a colossal conspiracy involving all major powers, the whole thing becomes personal and this is how Royce and Hadrian find themselves in the eye of the storm.To be honest, characterisation keeps to the side of cliche, so does, you might argue, the world building as it basically is a Tolkienesque spin-off.
When the previous instalment was cleverly written revealing just enough to allow the readers guessing and second-guessing where the whole thing is going, in Avempartha the crumbs meant to feed the readers with bits of intrigue are so thick, you can basically choke on them.
Full review now posted!When I first read The Name of the Wind a few years ago, I just knew that Patrick Rothfuss would be my favorite fantasy author for the rest of my life.
But I have to confess that Rothfuss has been usurped as king of my fantasy-loving heart by Brandon Sanderson, whose creativity and work ethic knows no bounds.
Besides the wonderful characters and sassy dialogue, Sullivan also managed to add a lot of mystery into a fun romp of a fantasy, which I thought was pretty different.
He managed to write a really engrossing fantasy in easy to read, everyday English.
3* for Crown Conspiracy and 4* for AvemparthaFirst of all, Royce and Hadrian is not the best duo of thieves from fantasy literature, Locke Lamora and Jean Tannen is.
Royce and Hadrian are a famous duo of thieves that are hired to steal a sword and instead of finding what they were looking for they discover the dead body of a king for whose death they are blamed.
The Riyria revelations is the perfect light, entertaining, fantasy series to be read compulsively, maybe in the same time with a harder novel.
The sense that in writing the heroic traditional sword and sorcery epics the writer drifts into cliché and as such could not possibly write anything worth reading.
I certainly feel led to drop what I'm currently reading and move straight onto the second and third books.For those who would like a brief synopsis Theft of Swords (I love the resonance of that title) follows two thieves as they attempt (within two stories) to steal two separate swords.
Thanks, Ivan :) Lots of people started reading this series and when one of my GR friends and awesome GIF master Craig reminded this book to me, I just thought – why not.
I finished the first book (the ending was great!) and to tell the truth, I considered to dive into some other read more because, while I totally loved the story and the two main characters were likable (Hadrian and Royce.
They're witty, they're extremely skilled in their field, and they're very good at getting into problems, also solving them.), I found that some felt a bit underdeveloped, not entirely believable (I mean the princess and the Bambi-eyed monk).
I thought that the first time I read it and I completely agree with my younger self on this point.Theft of Swords is divided into 2 books: The Crown Conspiracy and Avempartha.
Well a teddy bear carrying 3 swords, that is…), Royce is sinister, somber, grumpy, clever and sarcastic and I absolutely love the contrast and complementarity between the two partners.Source: http://federicomusetti.deviantart.com...ConclusionTheft of swords can be seen as a big introduction to the series.
I know this first book can be disappointing (I wasn't completely thrilled at first, even if I overall enjoyed the read) but if I may give an advice: please carry on with the whole series!
It follows the adventures of swords for hire, Royce Melborn and Hadrian Blackwater.My main struggle with this book is that neither of the stories really delved deep enough for me to invest.
Every so often a scene would catch and hold my attention, but it was a bit of a roller coaster on my end.I feel like I don't know Royce or Hadrian hardly at all.
There were some moments that had me giggling out loud!Near the very end of Avempartha there were some hints revealed about the overarching plot of this series, and right here is where it snagged my attention.This is a debut fantasy novel, and also was originally self published.
This is a light and fun fantasy that happens to be mostly traditional in that it features kingdoms, elves, betrayals, a wizard and a big bad monster and a broken sword.
Sure, in terms of characters, but not really in terms of flowing story.
So what are the real differences, as opposed to the many, many similarities to the rest of the Traditional Fantasy Adventure?
Our main surprises revolve around them, too, whether in long-plot or characters, so hold your horses.
There really are too few horses in this Fantasy, and that's a feature, not a bug.
I came back to reading fantasy after a long hiatus, and this was the first book I picked up.
To make a long story short, I like the book to the point I had to choose between reading a couple of more pages and getting a little more sleep at night.
The story looks fresh after endless "a reluctant/unsuspecting nobody is destined to save the world" fantasy cliches.
It is by no means Lord of the Rings, but it does not pretend to be one.In conclusion, I highly recommend this book as entertaining and fun read.
Kindle Deal on amazon for $2.99. 20Jul17 ♘Read with all my fantasy friends at  Buddies Books & Baubles ♘♖Theft of Swords♖This is my very first Omnibus, actually before this I didn’t know what an Omnibus was so halfway through the book when the first story ended and the next one began I was surprised. But YAY score two books for the price of one….who doesn’t like that kind of deal?Fantasy is my first love and I always enjoy it when I find a new series to get excited about.  Michael J Sullivan
But YAY score two books for the price of one….who doesn’t like that kind of deal?Fantasy is my first love and I always enjoy it when I find a new series to get excited about.
This book had some of the things I really love in a storyBROMANCEI totally enjoy a good pairing of friends that play of one another and are so different but work so well together like Tyrian and Brom (Game of Thrones), Waxillium and Wayne (Mistborn 4-7) and Sean and Gus (Psych).
Not because I did not want to sample this series, which I had read and heard so much about from its numerous followers on Goodreads, but for the simple reason that I have grown to like Mr. Sullivan a great deal since joining Goodreads: I’ve been his “friend” in the GR sense for many months, followed his reviews/blogs, and enjoyed his comments in numerous groups.
But like many things which I have worried with unnecessarily, my hesitance was an absolute waste, because Theft of Swords was an excellent fantasy novel.Now, I want to go ahead and make clear that this book is a straightforward fantasy romp.
I’ve finally read this book.
Theft of Swords was a pretty awesome book and I had so much fun reading it wooppppp!
But what really made this story so great were the characters.
He was always so caring and thoughtful and *fans face* could he swing a sword.
In fact, there were times when I felt like a kid watching an enchanted movie when I imagined the kind of things they had to face and do.Another thing that made my reading so enjoyable was the dialogue.
This was a brilliantly entertaining read and I’m so excited about continuing on with the next books and seeing what everyone is getting up to!
3 Stars. Full review is up, after concluding my second attempt at reading this book!Not much better from my original two star rating, but I can say that I actually enjoyed reading it this time around, which is a vast improvement.  All things considered though, I can't help but feel that this book is vastly overrated . Fantasy is the genre, you would think, with the most potential for creativity and originality, and yet so often, it is the genre with the least variety. It's either a Tolkeinesque
Full review is up, after concluding my second attempt at reading this book!Not much better from my original two star rating, but I can say that I actually enjoyed reading it this time around, which is a vast improvement.
Reading books like this one make me feel the potential for so much more, because Sullivan is clearly a skilled writer, but he settles for the typical fantasy tropes.
I'm going to break this review down into three categories: Story & Plot, Character Development, and World Building & Prose.
As stated above, I think the reason that this book fails to grab my attention is because it feels like a story I have heard before.
As for the other characters: Myron was cute as button; Arista was like a movie extra; we meet briefly with Yoda, sorry I mean Esrahaddon the wizard in the first book and then, he comes back as the pheasant king of the last wizards; and I wanted to dress Alric as Joffrey and throw him at Game of Thrones fans.To be fair, he gets better as the story progresses and he never reaches to Joffrey's levels of being killable, but his basic nature of being a conceited arse doesn't change.The political aspect of the story was so simple, I had no problem understanding it and guessing the reasoning behind the events.
I am so excited about this one: I made a longer review on my blog, here it is: https://todaysdecameron.wordpress.com...Please let me know what you think about it, a brand new blog to resume my love for books and my will to share it!
- - -I have no mixed feelings about this book: I simply loved it.
I am clearly in love with Royce and Hadrian, the good-deed doers, although often because Hadrian jumps the gun!Arista and Alric are also really great, and I have a soft spot for Arista, woman and independent, educated and clever, strong and humble as well.
And despite Royce saying he hates them, I actually happen to really like the dwarf!
Many of the other supporting characters are on the border between two-and-three-dimensional, but showed evidence of growth throughout the book leaving me hopeful for the future.The plot of the first part, The Crown Conspiracy, was adequate, nothing to write home about.
I'm glad I did.I have to say, I wasn't into this nearly as much as I was into Age of Myth, the first in a new series chronicling the history of this same world in the far distant past.
Either way, having read Age of Myth first, it was awesome to catch the references between the two books and connect the dots between the various story elements.
And what a breath of fresh air this has been.This volume is made up of the first 2 books of the Riyria Revelations, ie The Crown Conspiracy and AvemparthaThe Crown Conspiracy (3.5 stars)This book is probably the shortest in the series making it a really quick read.
By now, I was very keen to read The Crown Tower (the first book of the Riyria Chronicles) but was advised to finish with the Revelations series first.Avempartha definitely had a ‘darker’ tone compared to the first in the series with greater stakes at hand, and an unexpected ending to the climax.
He spends the book in between the fantasy tropes of the spoiled prince, the evil prince and the good prince without ever falling decisively into 1.
The climax of Avempartha is powerful and engaging with characters we've come to love and hate meeting brutal and sudden ends while the plot develops in unexpected ways.
On that note here is my Arista gullibility count 1) When Saldur, a representative of a powerful, ambitious foreign power with plans to control her kingdom assigns a domineering, nosy woman with a suspicious background as her minder she doesn't even consider that she might be a spy.
Ugh. Summary: Gullible Arista is gullible Saldur himself is a character with some really interesting motivation.
I'll still read the next books, but not with the fervor of The Doors of Stone or The Republic of Thieves...or if Lois McMaster Bujold writes more in the Chalion series.
This might be something that would only bother someone like me, but in what world would people named Archibald, Vince, Theron, Hadrian, Royce and Ethelred all exist at the same time?
The time the prince spends with Royce and Hadrian really could have shown some character development in him, maybe in a way reminiscent of Eddings' Belgariad.
Especially on Audio book, as my reading time is SO much faster than my listening time.
Using their brains, humour and a bit of good luck, they have to unravel the mystery, save their own hides, find the real killer and unravel an intense and conspiracy.In the second book of the volume, Rocye and Hadrian are employed by a young girl to come and kill a monster that has been slaughtering the people in her village.
They are also reunited with some old friends.This first volume consists of the first two books of the Riyria Revelations, The Crown Conspiracy and Avempartha.
