https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7933129-wigs-on-the-green
This send-up of fascism at a time when, little did they know (1934, much like late 2015) funny looking, clown-like people could really take control and ruin millions of lives - written by a member of England’s 0.01% during Hitler’s rise - is brilliant.
A fine plot.A central character is a sort of unholy Joan of Arc. Heiress to millions, locked on the grounds of an estate (which makes Blenheim sound like an outbuilding) with only her grandparents who haven’t left the grounds since the total devastation of the family’s reputation by a legal divorce (can you imagine?) decades ago.
How simply intolerable.There are so many flawless descriptions of English eccentricities that perhaps only someone in a Mitford-like position could know and write so well.
All in all, this was a lightly entertaining story in which 2 friends of the monied class in early 1930s Britain (Noel Foster and Jasper Aspect, a glib character and shameless sponger) conspired to marry 2 wealthy heiresses while taking a break from London one summer.
At the time Unity's obsession with Hitler and fascism just seemed like a great joke to Nancy, and she couldn't resist what she saw as good material for her book.The chance to get a little more insight into Unity Valkyrie Mitford will make WIGS ON THE GREEN irresistible to fans of the Mitford sisters.
But no one in the family, including Jessica, could ever bring themselves to cut Unity out of their life.The five star rating is mainly for those fascinated by the Mitford sisters, but I would still give WIGS ON THE GREEN at least four stars, even for people who have never heard of the Mitford family.
I think this may be the Mitford novel that cured my desire to read any more of her fiction. I really liked The Pursuit of Love, I like Love in a Cold Climate less, I really didn't like Don't Tell Alfred, and I found Wigs on the Green tedious. You would imagine a bunch of toffs exclaiming what a lark this book is.
Entretenida y loca comedia de enredos, donde destacan de forma magistral las burlas a costa del movimiento fascista ingles y, en especial, el capitulo dedicado al manicomio para nobles chalados
Well it took me a month to read 170 pages.
The part I liked best was the introduction, which gave a brief biography of the author and her family.
This was written in 1934 and the author never wanted it to be reprinted because she makes light of people starting to support Hitler's political party.
I can understand her misgivings because as good as the writing was, when Hitler was spoken of as a "good fellow" it took me completely out of the story.
Would still be interested in other things Mrs. Mitford wrote, but this one was rough for me.
In the introduction to "Wigs on the Green", Charlotte Mosley writes the reasons for Nancy Mitford's third novel not being reissued until after her death.
He stupidly boasts of this fact to his scheming friend Jasper who says he will help, but only if Noel fronts his expenses.What follows is a summer holiday in a small village where an heiress and child of scandal Eugenia Malmains has turned of age and is ripe for marriage.
One of the reasons why I love Nancy Mitford's work so much is because she captured and preserved an England that is quickly becoming lost in today's one world culture movement brought to you by technology.
E Wein: Basically, the thing I like BEST to read is early 20th century chick lit.Sara: Is that a thing?E Wein: It wasn’t called chick lit till the 1990s or whatever, but that’s DEFINITELY what this is. It’s like chick lit only it’s better written and the clothes are more stylish.Sara: That’s what you should read, then.--------------------Quite frankly, I found  Pigeon Pie  much more disturbing and cringeworthy in its politics than Wigs on the Green, which is just plain silly. Despite Mitford’s p
It’s like chick lit only it’s better written and the clothes are more stylish.Sara: That’s what you should read, then.--------------------Quite frankly, I found 
And I did enjoy the comedy.
(view spoiler)[I loved the way this book started out making you dislike Jasper so much you wanted him to bugger off, until you started to realize that in fact Noel, the original viewpoint character, was incredibly boring, and Poppy was really very charming, and despite Jasper’s wayward habits so was he, and you hoped Poppy and Jasper would get to continue to enjoy themselves in exactly the same way they were this summer forever.
As the weather was extremely hot, he took no chill and suffered nothing worse than a little mortification and the loss of his eau de Nil pyjama trousers’And there’s no question as to what Nancy’s stance is – ‘When you find school girls like Eugenia going mad for something you can be pretty sure it’s nonsense.’  But politics aside, Wigs of the Green shows off Mitford’s razor-sharp wit, wicked caricatures and snappy dialogue.Like any good satire, Wigs culminates in a great, final fiasco – horses bolting, pageant costumes gone awry, and couples stealing across lawns at midnight.
A Hitler acolyte, Unity was immersed in the Nazi movement as a very young girl and Nancy chose to satirize her in this book.
Whatever we may think of Unity, it also speaks volumes about Nancy Mitford that she would expose the frailties (and or eccentricities) of her young sister in this way.
It is hard to believe that she wrote this and then told Unity that she would be "very happy with it." So, in its unique way, this silly book is an important part of British social history.
However, there were some hysterical witty quips and farcical send-ups that made this a most enjoyable read.
I think that, due to it being set in a small country town, there was not the same sense of satirical observations of the upper classes that Mitford is so good at in her later novels.
It is also a much smaller book conceptually, because it focuses on small middle-class characters with few eccentricities, and is set in a small town.
After reading her later novels where the English countryside, London, Paris and rural France are frequent destinations, Wigs on the Green seemed like a smaller novel comparatively.
Me puse a leer Trifulca a la vista porque otro libro de la autora, A la caza del amor, me había gustado muchísimo, sin embargo este no ha estado a la altura. Quizá también ha influido el halo de misterio que rodea a las obras prohibidas y que crea unas expectativas que luego no se cumplen, pero el libro me ha parecido correcto sin más: a ratos ingenioso, a ratos divertido y a veces (las partes del nazismo) totalmente desconcertante.
Sharper than a tack--funny too!I loved this gossipy frolic. My first time with Nancy Mitford left me more than impressed with her ability to shed light onto the hysterical tedium of truly first-world problems.Can't wait to check out more.
My first Nancy Mitford, and perhaps not the place to start, as it was just ok, but it was the one my library had in stock on Overdrive and it was a charming enough diversion for a cold winter week, and the action did pick up toward the end.I'll try another Mitford soon.
0,3 estrellasPolémica Wigs on the Green (Trifulca a la vista).Esta novela (mi primera acercamiento con Mitford) inspirada en su entorno familiar y en su hermana Unity La "Nazi" que es un fiel bosquejo de la protagonista, no podía ser más que incomoda e inapropiada en su tiempo.
Nancy Mitford ve humor y situaciones cómicas donde no las hay.
Personalmente encuentro que es una novela más bien mediocre.Le di tres estrellas por que Nancy sabe escribir y a pesar de lo sosa que es la trama, me fue posible finalizar la novela sin odiar a su autora.("No puedes publicarlo de ninguna manera, así que más vale que no pierdas el tiempo con él", le escribió Unity a Nancy),
Fun social satire set between the wars, listened on audio
When it comes to Wigs on the Green, I have to agree with Nancy Mitford's own assessment, written in a letter to her virulently pro-fascist sister: "I still maintain that it is far more in favour of fascism than otherwise.
Far the nicest character in the book is a Fascist, and the others all become much nicer as soon as they have joined up."Mitford may not have been a fascist, but she clearly had some sympathy with fascism at the time she wrote the novel.
Her novel doesn't ridicule fascism itself; it ridicules people who happen to be fascists.
Enjoyed this despite the rather uncomfortable references to Nazism. Amusing, well-written and more than a touch of Wodehouse about it (praise indeed!). Will read some more Nancy Mitford.
To gently poke fun at them, like all the sisters did throughout their lives.It’s a novel full of characters that are so obviously Nancy’s: Jasper, not a penny to his name, but made of charm; Anne-Marie Lace, a comedic Madame Bovary; Eugenia, who is (misplaced) passion personified, “if she had been born 20 years sooner, she would have been a suffragette”; Lady Chalford, who, terrified of the changing world, hasn’t left her home in sixteen years.I’ve always intended to get through Nancy and her sisters’ complete works and then move to biography, letters, etc, but this novel has me wanting to get to the biography now – I need more context!
Being rather a fan of The Mitfords, and having read several biographies and letter collections as well as some of Nancy's later, better known novels, I was very curious when I heard Wigs on the Green was being re-issued.
The introduction by Charoltte Moseley casts an interesting light upon this, and apparently Nancy took out 3 chapters which particularly mocked Sir Oswald Moseley.
There is plenty of Nancy's famous wit in evidence here, but this is really no scalding satire.
The novel is light and frothy, funny and very tongue in cheek, and yet even now after all these years it is hard to see the humor in fascism.
Una novela ligera y sin pretensiones que se lee en un momento siempre con una media sonrisa en los labios frente a los curiosos personajes que por ella desfilan.Sin embargo, hay que tener en cuenta que esta es una más de esas obras inglesas rescatadas por Libros de Asteroide que nos quieren vender como joyas universales perdidas y que sin embargo son novelas muy muy locales y en cierto modo costumbristas.
I loved the expression so much, I googled the etymology (it’s an Irish version of “going to the mattresses”) and the title of this novel popped up.
On closer inspection I realized that I was familiar with one of her post war titles (Love in a Cold Climate) but this one had been published in 1935, poking fun at the her sister Unity, and her sister Diane’s soon-to-be-second-husband Oswald Mosley.It’s a little frothy, which I suppose is to be expected in an English comedy of manners, and had enough humor to be worth reading on its own.
This is a book of satire - I knew that going in, but it still didn't help, and Fascism still isn't funny. It just made me uncomfortable. As Nancy Mitford herself said later, "Too much has happened for jokes about Nazis to be regarded as funny or as anything but the worst of taste." This book was written in 1934 and it definitely shows. Perhaps not the best book to start out with while exploring this author's works.
I love Nancy Mitford's other books. This was fun in places but I found the characters largely unlikable in contrast with the adorably bonkers Radlets who have many good qualities. She was right to withdraw it after the war too (apparently saying jokes about Nazis could never be funny now). Read The Code of the Woosters instead.
Very very slight and bad Mitford -- not even very biting about Fascism -- much more a failed Wooster and Jeeves type romantic comedy. not a very funny one at that!
A good laugh and a bit of fun.
"I'm bound to say I think she has some exceedingly odd views on the subject of social relationships. She ostracizes all the chaps that have had tough luck, like being caught out cheating at billiards or having lousy husbands, whereas one knows she wouldn't mind a scrap if they did really wicked things like grinding down the poor. I believe that our generation as far better ethical values than hers had; we see the chaps we like, even if they are hell, and avoid the ones we don't. It's the only sensible criterion, don't you agree?"
In this book Nancy Mitford seems to hit her stride as an author. Compared to Highland Fling and Christmas Pudding the prose is stronger and the story flows well. We are transported to a country village in 1935 or so in the company of a group of young things of privilege staying in a village hostelry and some local characters. Dalliances between characters battle with the farcical nationalism/fascism-lite of local groups and social aspirations to provide the comic drive of the tale. A good story that also provides some insight on the political and social drivers of the time.
I struggled through this mostly because it was a book club choice, and I’m glad comments at book club for me to finish it, but I would not have persisted otherwise. Was it too subtle for me? I actually just found the farce depressing rather than farcical. It ended amusingly but the build up took too long and there was no one to care about (you need someone like that in a farce otherwise you’re left despising everyone?) Maybe I was just in the wrong mood.
Also, as Lauren and Nancy have said, if I hadn't I would have probably been "too too shame-making" and my Mitford books would have run away.
I personally believe that it must have been family pressure that resulted in this books long absence, because I don't think that her excuse of not laughing at Hitler is valid.
We have all known the oddly fervent and political, likewise, the ones who pretend to be to get in with them, those who would do anything for money, even marrying odd heiresses, those who revel in making merry hell for their friends, those who get the wrong end of the stick, and those who are totally potty...
