https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/465226.The_Redbreast
(One particular mystery that we, the readers, know the answer to is not actually solved in the book, so clearly it will be a theme for later.)I seem to read a great deal of Scandinavian crime fiction, but The Redbreast really stood out for me in terms of plot, character development, and writing style.
Nesbø manages to stay away from the tedious accumulation of unnecessary detail of which both Larsson and Mankell are guilty; all of his characters seem like real people, rather than random collections of cliched plot devices, and wonder of wonders, Harry doesn't actually solve one of the biggest mysteries of the story.
Nesbo has drawn Hole as a very real hero, with bumps and ugly problems (which is somewhat cliché as this kind of lead character seems prerequisite for a crime novel – the tough but tortured loner cop out on the edge, driven by his own demons and suffering under bureaucratic and legal obstacles that keep him from doing what is right) but he has also created in Hole a very likable and approachable protagonist, a lead actor whom the reader can get behind.In John Steinbeck’s wonderful 1942 short work The Moon Is Down, we are introduced to the Nazi invasion of Norway and are given to the idea of a united Norwegian front against the invaders.
Here's the thing about the recent popularity of Scandinavian writers and if you're a Nordic Thriller aficionado you couldn't care less about the distinction: the novels are depressed, somber, filled with ennui, a lack of humor, with flawed characters if not suffused with a strong tendency towards determinism; in short, whether you're reading Stieg Larsson, Henning Mankell, or Jo Nesbo you are likely reading Literary Naturalism.
Στον Κοκκινολαίμη, λοιπόν, ο Χάρι γνωρίζει τη Ράκελ και χάνει τη συνεργάτιδά του, με το τελευταίο να τον απασχολεί πάρα πολύ στα επόμενα βιβλία που θα προσπαθεί μανιωδώς να βρει το δολοφόνο της.
Εγώ, βέβαια, τα διάβασα σε εντελώς τυχαία σειρά, ανάλογα με το ποιο έβρισκα διαθέσιμο στη βιβλιοθήκη, αλλά και αυτό είχε τη μαγεία του, καθώς θεωρώ ότι έκανα πολλά μπρος-πίσω στο χαρακτήρα, οπότε πλέον αισθάνομαι το Χάρι σαν έναν τύπο 50+ χρονών (κάπου εκεί τον αφήνουμε στο τελευταίο βιβλίο) που αφηγείται διάσπαρτα περιστατικά της ζωής του.
ومن المحزن أن قراءة الروايات البوليسية تفسد البرستيج الافتراضي، وكأنما ليس للقارئ الحق في الاستمتاع بوجبة سريعة من حين إلى آخر، وسط كل هذه الوجبات الدسمة التي يتناولها، شيء يغير مذاق الكتب الثقيلة، هذا غير أن أشهر الروائيين العالميين وأكثرهم احتراماً، تطفلوا ويتطفلون في أشهر أعمالهم على فن الرواية البوليسية كما فعل ايكو وباموق وأوستر.
هو روائي بوليسي جيد، لديه بطل شبه ثابت في سلسلة من الروايات المنفصلة والمرتبطة معاً، فالمحقق النرويجي هاري هول، يخوض قضايا مختلفة، ولكنها مترابطة من خلاله هو، من خلال ذكرياته وشخصيته، عندما قرأت هذه الرواية وهي الثالثة في السلسلة – فالجزئين الأولين لم يترجما للأسف – كانت هناك إشارات خفيفة للعملية السابقة التي خاضها هول في بانكوك، كما أن بعض الأحداث تركت في هذا الكتاب للروايات القادمة.
There might be spoilers in the comments because this is one of those books you'll want to talk about with friends.I have it on good authority (*waves at Thomas*) that Harry Hole's last name doesn't rhyme with "goal".
We're gonna laugh and snicker every time I mention Harry Hole in this review so go ahead and get it out of your systems.
Yes, there are two books before this one in the Harry Hole series and they have since been translated as well, but The Redbreast was the first to be translated.
If you read this book (or if you already have) we'll talk in the comments.
One of the Norwegian soldiers winds up wounded in a hospital where he falls in love with a beautiful nurse and begins a romance that will reverberate through the next fifty years.In the present day (actually, 1999 and 2000) Oslo Detective Inspector Harry Hole makes a tragic, if unavoidable mistake.
Harry only knows that this can't possibly be good.As Hole tries to track down the rifle and figure out what the neo-Nazis are up to, the two story lines collide, leading to a great climax.
Any reader of crime fiction is almost certain to enjoy it.A word of caution: If you are interested in reading any of Nesbo's Harry Hole books, it is critically important that you read them in order.
According to goodreads alone, 7800 people gave this on average, 3.8 stars.I should have liked this, but to be honest it was a struggle for me to even finish.The story seems fractured, moving as it does, between two different time periods, the latter days of WWII and present day Oslo.Nesbo writes with the kind of authority that assumes every reader would be familiar with the history of Norway and why Norwegians were mixed up with the Germans on the Eastern Front.
I was looking for someone to connect to.
A must-read by all series Harry Hole fans, thought its depth and complexities leave the previous two novels in the proverbial dust.There is no question why or how Nesbø won significant awards for this novel.
A thoroughly stunning piece of work that has breathed new life into the series for me and those who have come to respect Harry Hole up to this point.
No matter what his past has shown, Hole is a man who has much more to show and with seven more novels, Nesbø has the time to peel away new layers to entice his fans.Kudos Mr. Nesbø for this novel that does not give up from the beginning until the final sentence.
We meet Harry Hole (in my case for the first time, because I skipped his first two novels in the series) as a burned out policeman, a bag of nerves that manages to shoot at a friendly target during a US presidential visit to Oslo.
In order to avoid an international scandal, his superiors promote him to a special investigations desk, where instead of laying down quietly, he starts tracking the links between skinhead gangs violence, the purchase of a very exensive sniper rifle and resentments inherited from past collaborations of Norwegians with the Nazis in WWII.Now for the good stuff:-	Harry is a great choice for the main character of a multi volume series.
Việc của bạn là nhẩn nhơ chậm rãi mà đọc, đừng nghĩ ngợi nhiều làm giề, nghĩ nhiều rồi lại thấy nó dở :v Đoán ra thủ phạm rồi (khá dễ đoán vì nó lù lù ra) thì cũng vẫn phải nhẩn nhơ vì người ấy đúng là người ấy mà ko phải người ấy đâu, tin mấy bác tác giả trinh thám thì quá bằng tin mấy bạn Tàu khựa đang trúng thầu cái đường ống sông Đà, "chú cứ tin ở anh", âu kê, đổ thóc giống ra mà ăn :3 :3Điểm trừ lớn nhất của cuốn này đối với nhiều người là nó dày quá :| phải dày thế nó mới phê chứ ._.
There have been four different scenes, a couple dozen characters and at least two dates (out of time sequentially).
I HATE books written this way.
I already don't remember the characters.
I don't remember which character goes with which scene.
I don't want the first chapter preview of things yet to come.
I do not read as an exercise to see how many scenes and minor characters my short term memory can hold.
I do not read to see if my brain can sort chapters presented out of sequence.
I want a character I can identify with.
Το παράδοξο με το στήσιμο αυτής της ιστορίας είναι ότι πρώτον, δεν υπάρχει φόνος εξ αρχής, αλλά κάτι προετοιμάζει κάποιος......
και δεύτερον, ο αφηγητής μας δίνει την ευκαιρία να παρακολουθούμε τα βήματα του θύτη (εννοείται χρυσό μου πως δεν ξέρουμε ποιος είναι!)...
Επίσης μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ η ανατροπή εκεί στα μέσα περίπου (πολύ στεναχωρήθηκα..ευτυχώς θα καταπιαστεί μ' αυτό το θέμα στο επόμενο βιβλίο και ανυπομονώ).Στα αρνητικά.....εεεε..ντάξει, δεν είμαι φαν του τελικού αποτελέσματος,σίγουρα δε το περίμενα, I didn't see that coming που λένε και οι Άγγλοι και για να πω και την αλήθεια μου, δε με κάλυψε.
First off, there would never be a main character in an American mystery novel called Harry Hole, unless it was a crime-solving porn star, but it seems to work just fine, for this Norway based police officer.
Harry is a tough, complex, hard-drinking cop, who may have discovered a possible assassination attempt.I am not going to reveal very much here, because one of the joys of reading this terrific Scandinavian thriller, was never knowing where this baby was going.
This is an impressive introduction to a highly talented author and I am looking forward to seeing what Harry Hole gets into next.
Ovo je zaista mnogo bolje od prve dve.Dobra prica, nekoliko zanimljivih likova, konacno i dobra atmosfera, pogotovo ona iz rovova u Lenjingradu.Hule je manje samouvereniji, manje pijaniji, manje dosadniji. Manje klise detektiv.Kraj je i dalje previse zamrsen i previse dugacak, valjda je i to poboljsano u sledecim knjigama.Sve u svemu, razumem zbog cega se Nesbø proslavio tek nakon ove knjige.I uspeo je da me nagovori da procitam bar jos jednu.3.7/5
Το πρώτο μας ραντεβού στη Νυχτερίδα έληξε άδοξα (τον παράτησα κάπου στο 30% και με πολλά νεύρα για το χρόνο που αφιέρωσα).
Κάποια από τα ονόματα έμοιαζαν τόσο μεταξύ τους σε σημείο που αισθάνθηκα ότι έκανα λάθος που δεν έβγαλα ένα μπλοκάκι να τους σημειώνω έναν-έναν για να μη μπερδευτώ.
Το υποτιθέμενο "plot twist" του τέλους δεν είναι και τόσο μεγάλο, αν είσαι λίγο καχύποπτος διαβάζοντάς το.Εν τέλει, ίσως θα το είχα απολαύσει περισσότερο αν είχε μικρότερη έκταση.
Εξάλλου, υπάρχουν κι άλλοι τρόποι να κάνεις ένα βιβλίο page-turner...Θα συνεχίσω τα ραντεβού μου με τον Χόλε, γιατί μου άρεσε πολύ ο τύπος, αλλά πλέον πιο επιλεκτικά και μάλλον με χαμηλότερες προσδοκίες.
I'm reading this series in order; this is the third book featuring Norwegian detective Harry Hole.
Yes, there are also the outlines of a classic mystery as Nesbø disperses clues for his detective, but the action itself is motivated by multiple betrayals which give this book a darker mood.
It's a mood that seems to fit Norway's cold winters and re-invented memories of World War II when the country was occupied by the Nazis and patriotic Norwegians were torn by their loyalties.
The most likely inference is that a serious crime is in the planning stages.I loved the relationship between Hole and his partner Ellen Gjetten.
Nesbo’s character Harry Hole is pronounced Hoo-ley per my friend Harry.
I told Harry that I thought the character's name Harry Hole was an odd choice for Nesbo.
Since some books have not been translated into English, not sure which one I'll read next.
(I am not learning Norwegian to read the series.) My only drawback is the fact that although the English translation is great, I was still stuck with unfamiliar words and references.
Not sure I’ll live long enough to learn both a new language and converting to the metric system.For a much more thorough and articulate review, do yourself a favor and read Harry’s review at The Redbreast.
]This is the third book in the Harry Hole series and Harry is developing into a very interesting and likeable character.
It was nice to see him in this book in good relationships with two very important women in his life and some of the dialogue and observations were laugh aloud funny.
There was a lot of concentration required as the book bounced around in time and place with many, many characters who mostly have Norwegian names!
Recommended reading for anyone who enjoys a good thriller but start with book number oneThe Bat as it is really worth getting to know Harry first.
I think Jo Nesbo is a better writer than Stieg Larsson, although I enjoyed the Millenium series. This author requires some concentration, as the plot is quite complex, but it is worth it. I loved the characters and the Oslo setting. Not only do we get a well-constructed mystery, but also learn a bit of history. Looking forward to other books in the series.
It's all in the writing my friend and Nesbo has the knack for it.Like the redbreast above, this story is made up of bits all over the place and we see our Harry put bit by bit together, painfully so.
Facets of how history is written by the victor and makes me think of how things would have been written differently if the loser had one.
I hate Nesbo sometimes, he gives us people, interesting, lovely or hateful and then he does the GRRM thing on them.
But he keeps me reading, he keeps me involved, he makes my reading soul happy.
Το τρίτο βιβλίο της σειράς είναι το πρώτο που διαδραματίζεται στο Όσλο.Έχουμε την ευκαιρία να ακολουθήσουμε τον Χάρυ Χόλε στα λημέρια του, να δούμε τους ντόπιους συνεργάτες και τους ανώτερους του, τα προβλήματα που αντιμετωπίζει στην ίδια του την πόλη.
Τον βρίσκουμε επίσης φουλ ερωτευμένο και με μία ακόμη συνειδητή απόφαση να ξεκόψει από το αλκοόλ, τον μόνιμο δυνάστη του.Η ιστορία με την οποία ασχολείται είναι επίσης δυναμική, σχετίζεται με μία μαύρη σελίδα της νορβηγικής ιστορίας στον Β' Παγκόσμιο πόλεμο αλλά φτάνει μέχρι σήμερα, στο λαθρεμπόριο όπλων και την πιθανή εμπλοκή ένστολων καθώς και την εκκόλαψη των νεοναζί.
Κάτι κερδίζεις, κάτι χάνεις στη ζωή και εδώ ο Χάρυ κερδίζει το κορίτσι (την αγάπη του Ράκελ) αλλά χάνει και το κορίτσι (τη συνεργάτιδα του Έλεν).
Nesbø was throwing out pieces to this puzzle and was gobbling them up like a champ.Harry's ability to connect with people and his relationship with his partner Ellen were sources of many feels.
I cannot overstate how much I connect with how Nesbø constructs his stories.
I like learning new things so this all worked for me.Where things went hinky was the plot twist at the end.
Nor can I or would I want to discount how smitten I am with Harry and this series, so I'll go with 3.5 and call it a day.Recommend to thriller/crime drama fans.
Πολύ καλό, ένα βιβλίο που σε κρατάει από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος.
I have to say, I felt a little bit confused during the first chapters: A strange accident with a Secret Service agent in which Harry was involved, neo-Nazi circles, scenes from the World War II, and not least, a lot of characters which Nordic names I couldn't memorize immediately.
But the plot, the characters, my curiosity and of course a masterful writing got my WHOLE attention from the very first page, and, guys, it was soooo worth it!
This book has over 500 pages, a long book actually.
There seemed to be a tad of superfluous info, a few red herrings, and too many Helenas, but luckily, it's all tied up in a neat little package at the end.
Everything ends up making sense and being a pretty crucial part of the story.
I am horribly bummed out by the death of Ellen even though I knew it was coming.
The way it's worded makes it one of the more haunting deaths I've ever read, something on par with the end of In The Cut. As she's being struck with the baseball bat & thinking to herself, "Forty percent of hedge sparrows survive.
These last scenes were brilliant, even though several threads were left unresolved, perhaps to be picked up in subsequent Harry Hole novels.Central to the story was the position Norway was put into between Hitler and Stalin, and the long-lasting impact of the choices people made in WWII, especially those who fought with the Nazis.
Much of this history was new to me, but there are surely parallels to the position of Poland, which is part of my story in the sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL currently underway.
Of course Poland's tragedy lasted much longer than Norway's, roughly two hundred years versus five.
Còn trong cuốn này, nguyên tắc ấy cũng bị phá vỡ, thật ra nó cũng góp phần tạo nên sự bất ngờ, hấp dẫn của câu chuyện, nhưng cách tác giả tạo ra những tình huống đó thì đánh vào tâm lý người đọc một cách ê chề không thể tả.(view spoiler)[Ellen, một cô gái tốt tính, vô can, nhân vật gây cảm tình nhất trong phần đầu, bị đánh chết một cách tàn bạo đến nỗi tên sát nhân sau khi thủ ác xong còn thấy ám ảnh trước hành động của mình.
Ο Nesbo έχει ταλέντο στο να αποτυπώνει την οξυδερκή του εικόνα της κοινωνικής πραγματικότητας και των παθογενειών της κι επιδεξιότητα στο να συνυφαίνει τα ατομικά κι ιδιωτικά με τα μεγαλύτερα πολιτικά και κοινωνικά προβλήματα της εποχής του.
But since a lot of people seem to be raving about this author, I thought I better check him out, especially when they class his Harry Hole series as Hard-Boiled.
I’ve found the only reason they are calling him the next Larsson is simply because he is another Scandinavian crime writer; which means some overly graphic murders, Nazis and an expected twist.
The Redbreast is the third book in the Harry Hole novel but the first available in English.
Hole is investigating neo-Nazi activity which leads him to further explore Norway’s activities on the Eastern Front during WWII.
Full review can be found on my blog;http://literary-exploration.com/2012/...
