https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9369720-passion
And sadly, it's like that through the whole novel; Kate starts writing about one of Luce's time traveling experiences and has me mildly interested, but then she decides to shift gears because she feels like she needs to move on with the story, and does so with no literary grace.
Ever!* I actually start getting interested for a couple pages* until....." at last" he breathed into her, finding her lips"you found me""Always"Me: AHHHHHH EAHROEIA;REUIARHOWEI NOOOO!*epilogue giving Kate an excuse to write another book and jack millions more dollars off of people*May I just say, that Always is kind of like her always using the word "destiny".
I want Luce to be with Cam!I kind of think that this whole "love" between Luce and Daniel is just like the one with Elena and Stefan. Im so sick of it. In my opinion Elena should be with Damon and Luce should be with Cam.
I want Luce to be with Cam!I kind of think that this whole "love" between Luce and Daniel is just like the one with Elena and Stefan. I´m so sick of it. In my opinion Elena should be with Damon and Luce should be with Cam.
Luce was in heaven, but she wasn’t an angel or he was in love with her soul?
I could actually give this book one whole star more if she had stopped to think even one time.
Wow, how shallow.I didn’t much enjoy the first book of this series and the second was just as bad, but I wanted to give a fair try, wanted to see if the plot and characters and writing could improve, if there could even be a foundation for this love that is so timeless and beautiful and yeah, yeah, whatever.
So, as you may know, the Fallen series is definitely not one of my favorites-- but I am inexplicably drawn to them like a moth to a flame, or a fat guy to a doughnut-- and I keep reading, in the vain hope that someday, somehow I will finally understand what was going through LK's head when she wrote these books...
The plot was moving along, there was a fun, new secondary character, we finally got to see Daniel's point of view and he wasn't such a tremendous butt-face, and even 2-D, cardboard Luce seemed to take on some life...
SpoilersHere is the short review: Here is the long review:And the award for The Worst Couple to Have Ever Been Written In the History of Mankind, No Seriously, What the Hell Were You Thinking goes to… Lucinda Price and Daniel Grigori! Good evening. I am here with Lucinda Price and Daniel Grigori, the winners of the award for The Worst Couple to Have Ever Been Written In the History of Mankind, No Seriously, What the Hell Were You Thinking! Lucinda, how does that make you feel?Lucinda: They just
Here is the long review:And the award for The Worst Couple to Have Ever Been Written In the History of Mankind, No Seriously, What the Hell Were You Thinking goes to… Lucinda Price and Daniel Grigori!
I can do it by myself.Then how do you explain the fact that you never caught up with Lucinda while she was travelling through time?Daniel: … I said, I don’t need their help.Do I need to remind you that you were also tricked by the gargoyle named Bill?Daniel: I didn’t realise it was Satan.Yes, that was obvious.
“I’ll love you with all my heart, in every life, through every death. I will not be bound by anything but my love for you.”  Passion follows after Luce stepped into the Announcer. She wants to pursue her past and what she gets from it will lead her to the end game this time. I did enjoy this book when I read the first half, it's full of adventues, heart-wreching moments, and historical settings. Lauren Kate successfully delievered the story in Passion, she not only tried to present their undyin
Lauren Kate successfully delievered the story in Passion, she not only tried to present their undying love, but also got us through the most desperate time when Daniel and Luce have no way out of this torment and Daniel's always left to be alone.
(view spoiler)[My heart's broken when Daniel wants to kill himself by plunging himself off of the cliff.
Ummm, that I-can't-tell-her-unless-I-want-to-lose-her-again thing is a big problem in the story, though.By the way, the ending of Passion got me to Rapture to find out whether Daniel and Luce will get their HEA and everything they have done is worth thier effort and exertion or not.
In Moscow, Luce found out that all the angels, Cam, Gabbe, Arriane, Roland and Molly were also there.
In his announcer, Daniel met Scale, the angel who sides Heaven Scale showed Daniel the place where Luce stepped out.
His true self was Lucifer and he was so furious of Luce’s failure.Daniel came to the Heaven Gate, where the angels were gathering, where the roll call was conducted.
That was a very important time when the angels had to choose their side, Heaven or Hell with Lucifer, when Daniel old self had chosen Lucinda.
Torment is where everything went into a mess, where Luce doubted their love and cursed fate.
The good points were that Luce finally got to see what happened in her past, and how it affected both Daniel and herself.
But then there was something different about the Chinese Daniel, or was he just more unguarded than the later versions?However, this book also has its flaws.
It was so convenient and really just annoyed me, as it seemed important in this book that he talk to his past self.
Also the lack of the other characters, definitely detracted from the story as they give the readers a break from Luce and Daniel.
I wanted to punch something so badly that I ended up taking a jog in the middle of the day to calm down because I am that furious with Lauren Kate.
Luce trusting that ugly-ass gargoyle was a hundred times stupider that saying yes to the piss drunk asshole to take you home.
And every other page Luce kept talking about how pure and strong their love is - IT'S SICKENING!!!
I'd like to talk about this one particular line in the book.
"One day our love will conquer this dark cycle." (Daniel, p.
If you read this book,Hope it gives you hellHope it gives you hell.If you bought this book,Hope it gives you hellHope it gives you hellIf you find a review More than two starsAnd you agree,Then you're a foolAnd them as well Hope it gives you hell!OK, this is harsh. But fun.
Why do I have a feeling that this book is gonna be worse than the last book? *Sigh* Life of a reader is hard.
so...,a prequel.i don't know how i feel 'bout it.,i'm mostly sad cuz there won't be much Cam,he's the best part of the series.i fear i will have to read about 5000+ years of the "great love" between daniel and Luce.
The first book was fairly boring and emo, with the only redeeming factors being an interesting ending and an intriguing character (Cam).
For me, the second book was more interesting story-wise with less filler, but also featured less of Cam and more of new characters that I didn't care much about getting to know.
I feel this story would have been better handled through flashbacks, or gradual time travel, maybe a few instances over each book instead of it being thrown together in one book.Was this bridge successful?
***Cover Review***This is the cover?Are they serious?Every year the book cover for the series gets a little more unlikable.The Brown (eeew) clouds seems out of place.The girl looks so fake.
The hair looks filthy and her face looks creepy.
Not the face that belongs to a heroine.
It's not the face Daniel Gregory would fall for.
If there's one thing that I liked about the cover it would be the lower half of it.
It's an Emo art gone bad.But I know what they say about not judging the book by it's cover.
I'm still excited for this book.
THANK YOU GOD, I FINISHED IT!!!This book sucks terribly.Fallen and Torment were both really good books and I found the series got a little boring, predictable and disappointing.Everything in this book got so confusing:1. It has no plot at all!2. Time traveling was literally so confusing.3. Luce is dumbass: what on earth is she searching for?4. How does Daniel keep changing his appearance in almost each past life? Hes immortal after all. He doesnt die!5. Why do all the other fallen angels always
THANK YOU GOD, I FINISHED IT!!!This book sucks terribly.Fallen and Torment were both really good books and I found the series got a little boring, predictable and disappointing.Everything in this book got so confusing:1.
How does Daniel keep changing his appearance in almost each past life?
Why do all the other fallen angels always hang around Daniel and Luce in each life?
My biggest disappointment (both with this book and the last) was the lack of Cam.Passion was 420 pages of torture .
I don't know anything more about Luce and Daniel than I did in the last book.
Oh gosh I wish I was Luce!!!
It also meant I missed the other characters, it was pretty much the Luce and Daniel show (and if you love their soppy and sometimes over the top, death defying and completely unrelatable love then you will adore this book) with Shelby and Miles popping into a past life for what seemed like no reason what-so-ever and a small performance by Annabelle who just popped out of no-where.
Maybe i've missed something, but come on, they are always hanging around and i'm not quite sure why, perhaps they are just awesome friends who like to watch Luce die over and over again, or perhaps i'm just being cynical and they're just besties.And How does Daniel keep changing his appearance in almost each past life?
A thousand insta-love moments, are you kidding me? I think I'll pass *manically waves goodbye to the series*
As you all know this is one of my favourite series and boy, this book didn't disappoint.After the events in Torment, Luce starts using the announcers to time travel back in time to find out if she and Daniel are truly meant for each other but also to see if she can break the curse on her once and for all.
Overall, I think any fans of this series will be pleased that Lauren has managed to capture so many aspects of Daniel's and Luce's love through this out story.
Well see I'm reading the Fallen series, the book has no plot, no foundation, I try to read on but it just gets worse.
Seriously no.So they are traveling all over time she is not an angel nor is she a demon, the story was lagging so much it gave me a sore head and I had to put the book down a few times as it wasn't enjoyable..When you did feel yourself getting into a bit of it Lauren would completely spiral off into something so irrelevant it was frustrating.The big reveal at the end, anticlimax!
“I'll always choose you." Yes that was the word. "Every single lifetime, I'll choose you. Just as you have always chosen me. Forever.” I was hanging on with my mouth open for most the time I was reading that book because of the time-travelling experience which was breath-taking and just constantly kept me on the edge. It's just what I wanted. From the beginning of this series I've wanted to go back in time and experience every single life-time Daniel and Luce have been together and this book re
From the beginning of this series I've wanted to go back in time and experience every single life-time Daniel and Luce have been together and this book realized my dream and I couldn't have asked for something better as a sequel to the second book which kind of downed my opinion for this series.It also solidified the relationship between Daniel and Luce though they weren't almost at all together.
Even if it wrecks him when she dies he wouldn't change a thing if it meant that he wouldn't be with her for even a fraction of time.I had my doubts about Luce but, okay, I think she really understood the love that she and Daniel share (and along with her we did too).
I don't give a lot of one-star ratings, but WOW. WOW.I wanted to scream, I get it! Daniel and Luce are in lust love. BUT WHY? WHY???I'm still at a loss about what I was supposed to learn from this book. That Daniel and Luce are the most selfish couple of all time? That instalove trumps all?You think it's bad reading about ONE Luce? Trying reading about a dozen Luces through the centuries. And hello? The gargoyle? What was Luce thinking?Ugh. That's all I can say after slogging through this book.
I don't know why am I even trying!!! This is the dumbest book ever.
The first two books had given me little satisfaction, with the romance between the two main characters so paper-thin, the pace of the story so off-beat, the plot so shabbily constructed and the mythical and historical references being so water-downed (I almost wanted to say 'bastardized' instead of just 'water-downed', but it sounds a bit too harsh so I changed it), I just didn't dare to put my hope up.Two years ago when I first saw Fallen in the bookstore and read the introduction on the backcover, I mistook that both Daniel and Luce were once angels before they fell from God's good side and were made to reincarnate as mortals throughout history, unable to be together in every single incarnation as the punishment for loving each other, because angels were supposed to love only God and nothing else.
First of all i was not so happy about this book. It just felt like it was never ending. But it also was quite nice like how Lauren just thinks like okay 9 days to survive good luck! So now i'm looking forward to reading te next one bc i want to know what is going to happen! I also think Luce is just too dramatic, really really annoying tbh. Hopes she gets a little better in book4
I have to say, this review may be partially biased since I viewed this book through glasses tinted as rose as possible, but I'm going to try to be as sincere as I can here.The cover may be sucky(-ier) compared to the other two, but the insides are definitely better.
Maybe what drove me nuckin' futs about TORMENT was the fact that it took place over about NINETEEN DAYS, which is an unthinkably short time for a book to take place with as little action as TORMENT had.
“At last." He breathed into her, finding her lips. "You found me," she whispered. "Always.” Luce finally wants to stop the curse once and for all but in order to that she must travel back in time, back to all the other times she meet Daniel and fell in love with him.With the help of a mysterious winged creature she manages to travel back to every meeting she had with Daniel. Meanwhile Daniel has to travel back in time as well to bring Luce back. Everytime he arrives at a place, Luce has already
Everytime he arrives at a place, Luce has already left it.I loved that we finally got to see all the other times they meet and fell in love (it was what I was waiting for since book 1), even when most of them felt like they were completely different characters.Some of them, I even believe that are in love.However what made this book my favorite out of the series was the plot twist.I knew what it would be.
She's a completely different person to the girl that she was at the beginning of Fallen, and I think travelling back in time to all her past lives really helped her become the young woman she is changing into.Because the book is about Luce travelling backwards in time and visiting all her past lives to try to find out more about the curse and find a way to break it, and Daniel following her to try and make sure she doesn't rewrite time and change the future, I also learnt a lot about Daniel.
The end wasn't that good, but I really liked most of the book.In this Lucinda is trying to understand everything that's going on and isn't sure in Daniel's love.
Not that it was perfect, bu time travel is one of my all time favorite tropes.The thing that surprised me the most, was that in this book I actually liked Daniel.
In this book Lucinda is tying to figure out, if Daniel really loves her.
I know that in the end she is convinced that he truly loves her, but I'm not.
I'm sure that he loves her, but more the idea of her and her past self.
Ok, so this is a prequel to Fallen and Torment, following Luce and Daniel's most important moments in 5000+ years...Sounds goooodddd:)...
So, this book is definitely my favourite of the Fallen Series, I think it's fair to say that they keep getting better.Definitely a hybrid prequel, and I really enjoyed it...Liking all the characters a lot more this time around, too!:)Looking forward to Rapture in 2012!Trying to figure out if the fact that I've read Paradise Lost has made the book more enjoyable or less so...
I think there were bits that bothered me, and parts that I further understood because of Paradise Lost...
