https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23019294-a-head-full-of-ghosts
this is not wry chuckling at reality teevee and the ethical ramifications are put forth in very natural ways by characters who would indeed question these things, so it doesn't feel like reader-directed "shame on you" (which makes it better than black mirror, but i've only seen two episodes) and now let's get to the best part of the book: MEEEEEE!!!the karen brissette character writes a horror blog which is running a 15-year-anniversary feature on the show.
I am sure Paul Tremblay is a nice guy, but after two of his books, I cannot stand him as a writer.The story in this book was silly and contrived.
If something weird occurred it felt like it was just there so something could be weird.
I don't think it even tries at all!Sometimes I can say that a book is not for me, but I can see how others like it.
Sorry, Paul - again, I am sure you are a great guy, but I am done with your books!Side note: Ironically enough, this book is the six-hundred and sixty sixth book I have listed as read on Goodreads
I might have to come back and alter my review because I'm not entirely sure how to process this book.All I will say about the plot is it revolves around the Barrett family and we are trying to solve the puzzle of 14 year old Marjorie's illness.
:) I really enjoyed Karen's two cents and felt like I was reading thoughts from a personal friend.I truly believe this book made its mark on me by how I still feel connected to this tragic family; they were haunting and sad.
Well done Mr. Tremblay for concocting such a terrifying and tragic story that kept me turning the pages.
I didn't know whether to give this book 5 stars or 1, so I'm meeting in the middle.Yes, it scared me.
I love the real Karen from Goodreads that this character was modeled after, but it doesn't change the fact that the author used the blogger to explain things in the story because he must think we're incapable of following his story on our own, and that we have the IQ of a potato.Oh, but he shows great promise though.
It was the possibility that paranoia can cause unspeakable evil to be committed in this world.
Some of the problems with the pacing comes from the book's structure and framing device, where we glean the story by switching back and forth from an adult Merry dictating the story of what happened to her family to an author named Rachel doing research for a true crime novel, which leads to the POV of an 8-year-old Merry during the traumatizing events.
And as much as I understand choosing to use the little girl POV for the bulk of the novel, it ultimately became a chore, and all the time spent on setting up the 8-year-old-girl-world took away from the real reason that I picked the book up in the first place.
I had read Paul Tremblay's collection of short stories, In the Mean Time, earlier this year, and I greatly enjoyed it.
A Head Full of Ghosts exceeded my expectations.The novel revolves around the Barretts, a middle class suburban family.
When the elder of the two daughters, Marjorie, begins exhibiting odd behavior, the family becomes concerned.
As Marjorie's behavior becomes exceeding bizarre, psychology and religion become involved.
The show will culminate in Marjorie's exorcism.The story is told by the very likable younger sister, Merry, who is eight years old at the time of the occurrences.
Marjorie often frightens Merry with her erratic and disturbing behavior.
I'm sure I didn't pick up on them all, but I love being made to feel like I'm in on something;-the references to other characters in dark fiction classics-one of which is glaringly obvious, and since she was a most fascinating character to me in her first appearance, she was fascinating to me in this one too;-the subtle, and sometimes not so subtle references to reality television and what it does, not only to viewers but to those being filmed.
It’s not until near the end of the book that the big reveal comes (that is hinted at earlier in a story, but never explicitly expressed) that Merry’s whole family had been poisoned soon after the events of the show and that she was the sole survivor.
I'll keep this short and sweet: one of the best horror novels (maybe the best) I've ever read.
Her narration as she tries to remember her family's ordeal during her older sister Marjorie's illness/possession, was so engaging that I read the entire novel in just a few sittings.
Some people I see didn't care for the "blogger" sections, where a reviewer blogs about the reality show (The Possession) made about the incident, feeling it broke up the flow of the story.
For me, reading the book in 90-100-page chunks, I needed a breather from the main story at times, and these sections worked well in allowing me to calm the hell down.Overall, this is up there with the very best horror novels I've read.
I loved this one, not only because parts of it genuinely creeped me the hell out and raised the little hairs on the back of my neck, but the uncertainty of whether I was dealing with an unreliable narrator or not kept me on edge, and off kilter through the entirety of the novel.
She is out of control -- her behavior becoming increasingly odd, violent and disturbing to her family -- especially her younger sister Merry (our intrepid narrator looking back on events from an adult p.o.v.)Can I just say right here right now, creepy kids creep me the hell out?
Mr. Paul Tremblay knows his horror motifs, and he (and I) love how they're layered and layered some more, starting from truly delightful character sets with the slowly creeping horror, the slide into a normal family's confusion and pain, and then...Possession.What?
One who suffers from paranoia and schizophrenia?Oh yes, let's take this tale into a heavy-hitting commentary on religion that's fully aware of the past treatments and current standings and let's make sure that the audience is treated like the knowledgable horror fans that we are.
Unfortunately, A Head Full of Ghosts was not for me, but if you are a fan of stories that, in part, mimic The Exorcist, you will probably enjoy this extremely dark work of fiction that combines possession of an evil spirit with a reenactment of same in the form of Reality TV and a family that all seem to be going off the deep end.It begins super creepy with some pretty "crazy-weird-scary-icky" stories told, and ends with a virtual conglomeration of shockers and question marks that leave the door open for much discussion.Very. Strange. Read.
But, in this case, I thought some really good points on feminism, the patriarchy, religious zealotry, and the media made it worth it to hurt my brain a little bit.okay, I admit this is every day...So, the premise of this book is about a young woman who is recounting her childhood with a mentally ill sister.
How could they have known that turning her sickness into a circus might be harmful?And much like reality television, it will all turn to rotting unrecognizable goo..In between the girl's recounting of her story, we also see blog posts about the reality show itself where the author is picking the show apart, giving us the idea that maybe the whole thing was staged.
This book had been on my TBR for what seemed like forever, and I kept meaning to read it (I even bought a copy last spring!), but I just never got around to it—until an afternoon recently in which I needed to make an hour commute home and wanted an audiobook, so I looked at the “available now” section on my library’s audiobook inventory, found this, and that was all it took. I was so completely captivated from the start!    “Are you good at keeping secrets, Merry?”“More often than not, they keep
It constantly straddles a line between horror and psychological thriller, as you’re being dragged back and forth between the question of whether the scenario that took place was a possession, or mental illness, or simply a child running the gamut of twisted little parlor tricks.I don’t scare easily, and I wouldn’t say this is a particularly frightening book, but there’s definitely something unsettling about a few scenes.
I honestly don’t have a single complaint about this story, and would highly recommend it, whether you are a fan of horror books, thrillers, or just a good old-fashioned exorcism film.
I don't know.
I liked this and it kept me propulsively reading until I was finished in a few days, but the ending was too closely related to We Have Always Lived in the Castle for me.
That being said I loved the sisters and their relationship; the character of the little sister, Merry, was especially well done.
She acted and sounded like a little kid.
I loved the description of her excess energy and the clever way her parents dealt with it.
The nuances of her personality were brilliant.
The ending disappointed me, but it was still a pretty darn scary read.
This book is like what Cabin in the Woods did for the horror film genre.
He takes all the stereotypical things you've seen before in other horror books and movies, but he knows it, and he has a great time with it.
There's a lot of great stuff going on here from the illusion of reality television to other things besides ghosts that can make us lose our grip on reality.
Just read it, alright?I also appreciated all the name dropping throughout the book.
The whole thing was a refreshing take in a horror story, unlike anything I've read in this genre before.
It opens with her many years later after the events surrounding her sister Marjorie, giving an interview to a writer for a non-fiction book based around her experience as an eight-year-old.
The story jumps between the modern day, fifteen years later, and a blog commentary on the show, that breaks down and analyzes the events.It has been a while since a horror story has kept me awake at night.
When I did finally put the book down in order to sleep I found myself analyzing the sounds around me, something that hasn't happened since I read The Ritual by Adam Nevill.A lot of horror novels struggle with character development, and that is not the case here.
Wew, first book read after some time.
Now this book...
I doubted about the rating all the way, three or four, but I end up at four because of the bizarre unusual story and the chilling unexpected ending.
I did wonder all the way through, am I enjoying this yes or no....So...
weird book.
about a family who struggles with the oldest daughter falling ill and showing signs of being possessed by a demon?
So is she possessed or mentally ill?
All of the story told by the youngest sister Merry, now a grown woman, being interviewed by a writer who is writing a book about the family and the unbelievable story.
I haven't done that since I was a kid.A Head Full of Ghosts joins Joe Hill's N0S4A2 as the only book to truly frighten to the extent that it triggered hyper-vigilance and had me turning on lights in hallways and turning corners slowly to see what lurked behind them.The book is clearly a love-letter to Tremblay's pantheon of horror heroes, and shows an exhaustive knowledge of haunted house and possession tales both in cinema and literature.
Paul Tremblay has written one heck of a book.
In fact there has been a bidding war for movie rights: “EXCLUSIVE: Focus Features just won an auction for rights to make an elevated genre a head full of ghostsmovie from A Head Full Of Ghosts, the upcoming thriller novel by Paul Tremblay.
Focus prevailed in an auction that also had TriStar in hot pursuit.
What made me laugh out loud and endeared me to this book was the way Mr. Tremblay portrayed the religious goons and the ignorant parents through the easy manipulation by the children.
Yet Mr. Tremblay shows us just who was manipulating who.
I found it very well written and it captured my attention to the very end.The story revolves around the Barrett family; 14 year old Marjory is "sick".
This tactic worked magnificently in keeping my attention riveted to each and every occurrence, for fear of missing something vital.However, one of the things I did not care for was the author's use of specific devices, programs, etc., that served to "date" this book.
I felt this particularly in a story that was as ambiguous and "open to interpretation" as this one.Nevertheless, this novel is one that will definitely stay with you long afterwards, as your mind will be continually going back to interpret and reanalyze different sections.Recommended!
Very atmospheric and spooky, a perfect read for the #spookathon!
"My eyes were drawn to that crucifix and the deeply etched agony of Jesus' face."
Only my bones want to grow through my skin like the growing things and pierce the world."Y'all, anyone who knows me will tell you that I love horror.
Horror and Ellen go together like peanut butter and jelly (which I also love.) Finding a well crafted horror novel or movie is harder than squishing a sharktopus through the eye of a needle.A Head Full of Ghosts might be my favorite book of 2015 so far.
It's possession, madness, memory, religion, and reality twisted into a delicious meta knot, like a creepy Aunt Annie's soft pretzel.I can tear apart an awful book with ease; I hold myself back a lot of the time.
That said, I wish more people I know have read A Head Full of Ghosts so I could hit them up and just let loose flailing about how thoroughly this book fucked with my mind.
I’m actually dying to tell you what I personally think, but again, I can’t, at least not in this review, and it’s really killing me here.All I’ll say is, Merry’s narrative broke my heart.
When it comes to a horror novel, I actually think that’s more effective than outright creeping me out.So there you have it, my “short” review of A Head Full of Ghosts.
To be honest, I only skimmed the back cover, I don't like to know too much before I start a scary book-I like surprises.So in honoring that about myself, I'm just going to touch lightly on the actual story for this review.
So objective met.I'm pretty sure the only way you could read this book and *not* be scared is if you don't find the idea of demon possession scary or possible.But if you're like me, my mom and Stephen King--you will be scared.

I listened to this audio in...well, 8 hours...but most of those hours were in one day. I went into this knowing nothing about it and I was riveted from the very beginning. An interesting take on the classic horror stories, this one is more cerebral and incorporates the present in a way that is fun to read. Different and creepy, this perfect October read might make you a little uncomfortable and more than a little bewildered, but very entertained. 4.5 stars
Enjoyable suspense/horror book that centers around exorcism. Nice twist with the exorcism being filmed and how it affects the family. Quite disturbing and tragic. Liked the ending.4 out of 5 stars.
