https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11686.The_Stories_of_John_Cheever
Try reading John Cheever all summer and working at a country club. That'll mess with you.
“You betta check yo’self before you wreck yo’self.” Da Ali GI'd appreciate these stories more, I'm sure, if I could see the silver lining in sadness, broken lives and shattered dreams. I loved three story collections from a few years ago which also had a melancholy bent:Fortune Smiles: Stories by Adam Johnson, Thirteen Ways of Looking: Fiction by Colum McCann, and The Tsar of Love and Techno: Stories by Anthony Marra. For me, the difference of these three from Cheever's collected stories-taken
Much like the Radio, this collection depresses me like, say, hearing about others' (even fictional others') adultery, alcoholism and domestic abjection and/or abuse (all of these stories touch on one of these 3 areas) without a silver lining somewhere.
To be sure, these stories were likely grand in the late 40s through early 70s when written b/cuz they showed shiny, happy people from the City and the suburbs suffering problems that Hollywood would not show on television, the airwaves filled with black and white of the likes of "Leave it to Beaver," "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet," and "Father Knows Best."My favorite of these stories is "The Sorrows of Gin," following a pre-teen (Amy) watch her parents get deeper and deeper into the bottle, attending parties nearly every night and rarely showing the slightest interest in Amy. Cheever wrote this from experience, as a lifelong alcoholic whose relationships were decimated by his alcohol abuse.
He excellently knows the stuff our lives are made of.Although this entire anthology is a gold mine, The Swimmer and The Day the Pig Fell into the Well seems to be my preferred nuggets.This is not an imitation, she thought, this is not the product of custom, this is the unique place, the unique air, where my children have spent the best of themselves.
What had made the summer always an island, she thought; what had made it such a small island?
October 2009 Ὦ ξεῖν', ἀγγέλλειν Λακεδαιμονίοις ὅτι τῇδεκείμεθα, τοῖς κείνων ῥήμασι πειθόμενοι.  I'm not a very good student of History. I haven't read Herodotus, or Thucydides, or the other great classical historians. But I did see 300, and I spent about five minutes on Wikipedia, so I know a little about the Battle of Thermopylae. There's a monument there, at the site of the battle, with a neat little epitaph in Greek (see above) which, according to one translation, says: Go tell the Spartans,
There's a monument there, at the site of the battle, with a neat little epitaph in Greek (see above) which, according to one translation, says: Go tell the Spartans, stranger passing by,That here obedient to their laws we lie.
Yeah, that's more like it.Now, what does that have to do with The Stories of John Cheever?
It is formal, humble, almost genteel--in a way, it is itself a monument to Cheever: "Go tell the readers, stranger passing by, that these are the stories of John Cheever.
You would never see a Spartan reading Cheever.
Eventually, they push their luck and are exposed.
Then all the neighbors gossip about them, because it's better to keep the focus on the suckers who've been found out and hope no one finds out you suck just as bad, or worse.
So why am I giving five stars to a collection of stories about people who mostly suck?
Because John Cheever DOESN'T suck.
Not in yourself, of course, because you don't suck.
Cheever has a flair for finishing stories in ways you'd least expect.
It's like sitting on a bee with your bare flesh exposed.
It just makes you want to sample the next story to see where it will wind up.
This isn't the kind of book you just grab and set down and read from cover to cover just like I wouldn't think most people would grab the collected works of Shakespeare and read it one brilliant play after brilliant play.
I have enjoyed having Cheever by my bedside always available when I needed a break from my other reading endeavors.
Cheever is one of those writers that equally encourages me to write and at the same time convinces me that I have no business writing.
I own many of them and will steadily work my way through the best they have to offer.
The demons that drove John Cheever (Rachel Cooke) | Books | The Observer - http://ow.ly/vIeYv¿Por qué la vida es para algunos un exquisito privilegio mientras que otros tienen que pagar por asistir al teatro del mundo un precio de cólera, pesadillas e infecciones?
Podría prescindir de ella y de los niños sin demasiadas dificultades; podría pasar sin la compañía de mis amigos, pero no soy capaz de separarme de mi césped y de mi jardín; no puedo dejar las contraventanas del porche que yo mismo he reparado y pintado; no puedo renunciar al zigzagueante sendero de adoquines que yo mismo he construido entre la puerta lateral y la rosaleda; por eso, aunque mis cadenas estén hechas con hierba y con pintura para interiores, me tendrán bien sujeto hasta el día de mi muerte.

Per questo Cheever fa parlare attraverso le pagine i suoi fantasmi, cosciente di metterli in ascolto delle ombre del lettore, come attraverso una radio doppiamente spettrale.
Niente suona così familiare come le lievi e allegre apocalissi dei suoi personaggi, i loro pentimenti vitali e i desideri oscuri, i legami e le guerre, i progetti ipocriti, le esistenze liminari e tutta la geografia psicologica di una società, che continuamente si fa e si disfa, uguale e diversa dal giorno prima, uguale e differente nell'attesa della data ultima, l'unica ineluttabile sovrana delle pagine più accurate e profonde.

We read Cheever not because we love stories about the suburbs, but because Cheever shows us that a wild imagination can’t be bound even by the suburbs. We enjoy the quality of observation, the dialogue, the air-tight construction (and what he teaches us about form both in every example and over the course of the collection), but we read him for those moments when his stories take wing to escape cliche, banality, and the mundane.A few more thoughts on Cheever:http://alisonkinney.com/2014/07/01/jo...Thanks!
August 22, 2015As predicted (see earlier two posts, below), it took me months to finish this masterpiece. To reiterate earlier comments, I read from front to back as well as back to front. Not the best idea, it turns out, because the strongest stories are not in the middle. I'm adding this note for two reasons:First, I googled the one story in sixty-one that I didn't think worked, and I found a wonderful  New Yorker  piece by Brad Leithauser about Cheever's style and turn of phrase. I was a dram
I'm reading from front to back and back to front, so when I finish, I'll be somewhere in the middle of the book--which, for inarticulate reasons, feels right.
But, yes, I feel intimately connected and safe in that connection because it is private, in my mind.I'm curious: do other people feel an intimate social connection with the writer of a book they're reading?
I haven't finished reading this, but I'm just going to cut to the chase and give it five stars.
So in order to read this book in the time it demands, I'm going to have to buy it.
This author would be in my top twenty list of all time masters of the short story....I like a lot of
I have been reading the short stories now for a long time. I'm not finished yet but sometime I will because they are so good. The stories are placed in New England or New York. There doesn't happen much in the stories on first sight ( I mean not a lot of action) but they are focused on the relations between people. Characterisation, conversation, exploring the relation between people... that's what it's all about. And Cheever is a master in it.
Dear Mr. Cheever,While it is unfair 0f me t0 put y0ur b00k 0n my "read" shelf when in fact I 0nly read ab0ut 400 0ut 0f 693 pages, I feel the time has c0me f0r us t0 part.Y0u are n0t f0r me, Mr. Cheever, th0ugh I tried.
Y0u never break 0pen the hearts 0f y0ur characters, which leaves me irritable and half-satisfied.
I keep waiting t0 turn the page 0n s0mething m0ment0us, s0mething that will cause my little spirit t0 rise 0r sink with dreadful, unst0ppable m0ti0n.
At best, Mr. Cheever, y0u caused my spirit t0 rustle in its nest, and that is n0t en0ugh f0r me.
Note: The following is not a review of the entire collection. Rather, it's of one of the stories, probably the shortest, in the collection. This story alone, in my view, merits a five-star rating, representative of the rest. Reunion  by John CheeverThe New Yorker Fiction Podcast couldn't have chosen a better specimen of short fiction for its inaugural episode. Aired on May 3, 2007, and hosted by The New Yorker fiction editor Deborah Treisman, the episode featured Pulitzer Prize winner Richard Fo
That collection includes a story titled Reunion, inspired, Ford acknowledged, by a short story by one of America's most underrated writers and his fellow Pulitzer Prize awardee, John Cheever.
The Cheever story in question is also called Reunion, and it's this story, handpicked and read by Ford, that helped the podcast launch on an excellent note.Originally published in The New Yorker in 2000, Ford's Reunion is narrated by a man who again meets the man he cuckolded more than a year before.
"The last time I saw my father was in Grand Central Station," his story begins.
John Cheever the best American short story writer of the 20th century.
I already did not like his novel Falconer and the best stories in this collection are entertaining yes, but there are equally many that do not make sense to me.
I read that the author never planned what he wrote, just let it happen, following his intuition.
I like stories to have a nice rounding up at the end, clarifying everything that happened and leaving no mess around.
I read ten of this collection, some of the most famous ones and a few at random.

Before John Cheever started publishing his novels in the late 1950's, he made a good living selling short stories to the NEW YORKER and other prominent periodicals of the day.
Even after his novels started appearing, Cheever still wrote and added to the volume of his now-legendary short stories.
Cheever's stories were almost always immediately saleable, and here we have the best of the best: "The Enormous Radio," "The Brigadier and the Golf Widow," "The Swimmer," "The Country Husband" and many others.
This sturdy volume is apt to give anyone with a taste for 20th Century American letters entertainment, enlightenment, and flat-out pleasure.
The first story I read was "The Swimmer," because I wanted to find out the difference between film and written text.
The story is wonderful, yet very different from the film.
This could be the text book class in studying the nature of movie making and short story narrative.
By the way, the film is excellent, but so is the short story which is equally great, but different.
After that I spent the last four or so weeks going over this book by just pointing my finger somewhere in the text, and using that technique I managed to read that story.
In the same vein as Updike and precursor to the "dirty-realism" of Carver, Cheever betrays our expectations by presenting a class of people that on the surface of things have life together. Through unpretentious plots and simple syntax, he stuns his readers by revealing catastrophic and devastating results in otherwise innocuous scenarios. It is almost a form of voyeurism the way he reveals the reality behind our neighbors closed doors. A phenomenal author and unique, revealing perception of American society.
Where the hell have I been, this guy's a fucking genius. "Torch Song" is amazing, "The Chaste Clarissa" is hysterical, and the asshole elevator boy on Xmas day story has to be read to be believed. Cheever's sense of deadpan humor is sharp as a knife, "The Superintendent" being a great example. I'm only on page 200 but this is pure fucking gold.
Its pretty amazing but this book kept me interested for all 1004 pages of writing.
I agreed to read this book as a buddy read with my friend, Tajma.
I didn't care for his essays in the back of the book much - I believe he writes fiction much better.
This is how much I loved this book: I can't pick a favorite story.
Loved it, loved it....thank-you Tajma for suggesting the buddy read.4.5 stars --- would have been five except for the non-fiction writing and the stories waned some at the end.
La finzione discreta della borghesia, coi suoi segreti e le sue bassezze, con la sua corruzione morale e spirituale e la sua torbidezza isterica, o semplicemente con le sue debolezze quotidiane sta tutta qui, in 61 brevi racconti scritti come si scriverebbe un'anamnesi: ma, a differenza di Carver, questi pochi tratti che schioccano e che non esprimo un giudizio, in Cheever fanno comunque intravedere uno spazio di manovra correttiva futuribile.
E se la mattina dopo, dalla finestra del bagno, mi fossi affacciato sulle rovine maleodoranti di qualche grande città, lo choc di ricordare quello che avevo fatto forse non sarebbe stato così violento, ma il fondo morale del mio mondo era crollato senza cambiare di un briciolo la luce del sole.
Cheever writes like an entomologist - his characters are beetles and butterflies who he skewers with a pin before fastening them to the page.
Everyone seems so ordinary (or ordinary for the middle of the last century, when folks had cocktail parties instead of facebook) and thats the scariest thing about the loathsomeness of these characters.
My parents went to cocktail parties, and I recognize at least some of the outer trappings of these stories.
As he aged, he also seems to have come to hate story structure as much as he hated his characters, so he starts to play with that as well, to cast doubts everywhere.
No one captures the imperfections of suburban, white collar, white bread America like Cheever does.
Well, especially in the North.
If O'Connor is the Queen of South Suburbia, Cheever is the King of North Suburbia."The Swimmer," of course, is his pièce de résistance in this collection, and with good reason - I've been in love with unreliable narrators since.
"The Five-Forty-Eight" is another favorite of mine, as is "The Geometry of Love" (loved it so much it's where my AIM screen name comes from.)Again, this is another collection I read when I was younger, so a lot of it skipped over me, but there was still lots for me to appreciate, and I look forward to getting back into it, especially now that I've shed my suburban skin.
John Cheever's short stories are peeling away at the decay of American suburbia. The dreams, desires and small victories and defeats of every day life make up for a bitter sweet, strong collection of stories, the best of which I did not think was The Swimmer, although obviously it's still a great one. His ability to highlight the cracks on our surface is admirable and all the characters are human and humane. A good read.
I didn’t mark many quotes, but here are two just for kicks: “When you get to be as old as me, that’s the only way you can meet people—automobile accidents, fires, things like that.”“’I don’t mind you looking in my windows at night, Mr. Marston,’ I was going to say, in a voice loud enough to embarrass him, ‘but I wish that you wouldn’t trample on my wife’s flowers.’”Most of his humor has a dark edge to it, a sarcastic bitterness that fits his characters nicely.
I was irresistibly drawn to the Shady Hill stories, of which there were far too few.
He seemed to have been at his best when writing conservatively with an experimental flair ("The Swimmer" is the perfect example).
Among the very best were: Goodbye, My Brother (perfect)The Common Day The Enormous Radio (very well executed)The Summer Farmer Torch Song (irresistible)Clancy in the Tower of BabelThe Season of Divorce (perfect)The ChildrenThe Housebreaker of Shady HillThe Worm in the Apple (very clever)The Country Husband (perfect)BrimmerThe Death of JustinaThe Swimmer (highly innovative)Among the worst:O City of Broken Dreams (ham fisted)The Hartleys (hack job)The Sorrows of GinO Youth and Beauty!A Vision of the WorldThe Jewels of the Cabots (ravings of an old man?)I'd be willing to entertain arguments in favor of the ones I call the worst.
In addition to the stories that have been previously collected in “The Stories of John Cheever,” (1978), which I have in my collection, this volume also reprints some of Cheever’s works not in the earlier volume.
I enjoyed re-reading some of my favorites, including, “The Enormous Radio,” “Goodbye, My Brother,” “Torch Song,” “The Five-Forty-Eight,” and “The Swimmer.” These are stories that once you read them you will never forget them, but you will re-read them and discover new things each time.
