https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23492661-maybe-in-another-life
I have no apartment and no job.
I have no steady relationship or even a city to call home.
I have no idea what I want to be doing with my life, no idea what my purpose is, and no real sign of a life goal.
And yet time has found me.
The years I’ve spent dilly-dallying around at different jobs in different cities show on my face.I have wrinkles.My life may be a little bit of a disaster.
I may not make the best decisions sometimes.
But I am not going to lie here and stare at the ceiling, worrying
This was an incredibly heartfelt and sweet coming-of-age story, a rather unusual fact given that our protagonist is technically an adult at 29 years of age.As we all know, age means very little in terms of wisdom, maturity, and growth.
It’s entirely possible that every time we make a decision, there is a version of us out there somewhere who made a different choice.
What I’m getting at here is that I know there may be universes out there where I made different choices that led me somewhere else, led me to someone else.”“And my heart breaks for every single version of me that didn’t end up with you.”
It was just the wrong time, the wrong age, too much of one thing, too little of another, and they were pulled apart by life and decisions they’d each made… and even though they’d both numbed the pain and convinced themselves they were happy, they’d never truly gotten over each other.I actually love the way the blurb sets up the rest of the story, so I’m just going to quote it:Shortly after getting back to town, Hannah goes out to a bar one night with Gabby and meets up with her high school boyfriend, Ethan.
An interesting concept, but unfortunately this didn't resonate with me the same way her other books (The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo and After I Do) have. The alternate timelines mimic one another even down to the same sentences being repeated, which obviously became repetitive. Though, of course, this is a TJR book so I couldn't put the book down! This was one of her first novels, so it's great to see how her writing has improved.
5 stars    “Fate or not, our lives are still the results of our choices.”   Thought provoking, completely unique, brilliant and beautifully written. Maybe in Another Life is unlike any book I’ve ever read before. It’s my first Reid novel, and after reading, I want to go and gobble them all up. It was SO GOOD! Hannah Martin is almost thirty and doesn’t quite know what she wants in life. She’s traveled a lot, but she’s back to LA where her best friend, Gabby lives. Her first night back, Hannah goe
Hannah Martin is almost thirty and doesn’t quite know what she wants in life.
Hannah decides that night whether or not to go home with Ethan.
When Hannah doesn’t go home with Ethan, something big happens to her that makes her meet a night nurse named Henry.
One of my favorite parts of this book was the consistent ONE THING that never changed in Hannah’s life and the directions it took.
No matter what universe or path Hannah is in/on, Gabby is right by her side.
I have a bestie like that and I love that Hannah does, too!
MAYBE IN ANOTHER LIFE convinced me it’s time to cut ties with her writing and never look back.
I’m done trying to convince myself that I should like her writing when 
Through alternating chapters, the author explores what Hannah’s life would be like on both sides of the coin.
How many times do we have to hear about Hannah’s high bun and cinnamon roll obsession?!
Cinnamon rolls are mentioned 80 times in this 333 page book.
Not every reader connects with every author and this just happens to be one of those times.
She is human and makes some poor choices, but isn't that what life is all about?This book truly made me think what would my life be like if I made a different choice or went to a different place or moved to a different city.
I thought about this book all last weekend because I didn't have time to listen to it.
I also thought about this book pretty much the entire time that I was listening to it and I have a feeling Hannah will stay with me for a very long time!This concept is not new.
That night, Hannah reconnects with her old high school boyfriend AKA the she never got over.At the end of the night she had to make a decision, go back home with Gabby or go with Ethan?
The book then takes the reader through two journeys: one where Hannah went back with Gabby and the other where she stayed with Ethan.
But the premise is very unique and the ending was quite surprising that I can’t help but encourage romance readers to give this book a chance.So while there is a love story here, it’s not the main focus, so in a way, like I said, the ending made sense.
That thought makes me very happy and satisfied that I chose this book in this universe I’m sharing with my awesome GR friends.
“The world is splitting further and further into an infinite number of parallel universes where everything that could happen is happening...there is a version of us out there somewhere who made a different choice."  There is just something about the author’s writing that kept me reading.
I’m also questioning why Hannah had different endings in the two parallel worlds while Gabby had the same ending.
I mean, I want that every version of me in every parallel universe that exists would end up with my husband.
5 “Cinnamon Bun” STARS I had one book left to read by this author and little did I know that it would be my FAVORITE of her releases. I adored this story and simply every page, every line of this book. It is such a good read having all the components that go into making a story special to me. The story was so well written while being witting and enchanting. The humor is spot on, the fantastic friendship with Gabby is beautiful, the loss and the love just epic!  ”I know there may be universes out
5 “Cinnamon Bun” STARS I had one book left to read by this author and little did I know that it would be my FAVORITE of her releases.
I adored this story and simply every page, every line of this book.
It is such a good read having all the components that go into making a story special to me.
The story was so well written while being witting and enchanting.
”I know there may be universes out there where I made different choices and they led me somewhere else, led me to someone else.
There's a few things I cannot get past.Last year I read this author's marvelous book After I Do and fell in love with it.
"As long as you're happy and you're doing something good with your life, it really doesn't matter whether you went out and found the perfect thing or you chose what you knew you could make work for you."  One thing I find extremely special about Taylor Jenkins Reid is she makes the reader  think.
This isn't your typical romance novel for more than the obvious reasons, but because it makes the reader think about more than one outcome for the characters in the book.
“I think I have to”Hannah is facing with a dilemma to go home with her best friend or go home with the ex boyfriend.In this story we can see both decisions and how Hanna's life would have been if she had picked one of the two choices.
I adored Hanna,she is such a lovable character!I could relate with her!Gabby is the perfect best friend whom anyone could have!I loved their relationship!I'm not sure yet how I felt about the ending,I liked it but I felt like something was missing.But I really liked the book,it held my interesting till the end!I believe this story is one of them that you should definitely read!
I really enjoyed this one, such a unique story.
... My fate will find me. So I decide to . . .  Well, this was certainly different. Almost like two books in one. I really enjoyed how Maybe in Another Life explored the idea of alternate universes. While it only focused on two, you really understand how one decision can take you anywhere.After living day by day, and ending up unhappy with the results, Hannah decides to take control of her life. She doesn't have it all figured out yet, but her first step is to hightail out of a toxic relationshi
I really enjoyed how Maybe in Another Life explored the idea of alternate universes.
While it only focused on two, you really understand how one decision can take you anywhere.After living day by day, and ending up unhappy with the results, Hannah decides to take control of her life.
Small things like, what if I ate a salad instead of the seven cookies I scarfed down (a true story written by Destini herself).
Or big things like, deciding whether to go home with your friend or take a chance and stay out with a guy.
"Maybe in another life," he says.
Maybe my expectations were too high.
I found her to be immature ...
I actually found all the characters immature.
The concept of the story was original, I guess but overall, it was not a 4 or 5 star read for me.
Here is where I wish Goodreads had half stars ...
2.5 stars but will bump it up to 3.And if I had to read about a "cinnamon roll" one more time ...Will I read this author again?
Maybe.
Going through a bit of a book slump at the moment so maybe another day, another time, this would have worked better for me
Omg. THE FEEEEELS.
Have you ever wondered what would've happened if you'd just made a different decision?? What would your life have looked like?? In the same genre as 'Sliding Doors', this book takes you down two separate pathways, the two possible outcomes which stem from a single decision Hannah makes at a single moment in time.The chapters trade back and forth, continuously depicting one resulting life versus another. Those two lives have a few similarities and, of course, many differences.What happens when H
Have you ever wondered what would've happened if you'd just made a different decision??
In the same genre as 'Sliding Doors', this book takes you down two separate pathways, the two possible outcomes which stem from a single decision Hannah makes at a single moment in time.The chapters trade back and forth, continuously depicting one resulting life versus another.
Those two lives have a few similarities and, of course, many differences.What happens when Hannah leaves the party with her old flame Ethan?
What happens when she leaves with her best friend Gabby?This is an extremely well-written and hard-to-put-down story.
Talk about a story just coming out of nowhere and hitting you in the feels, hello, this book!
I devoured Maybe in Another Life in one sitting.
I absolutely loved it!!
I have a group of friends and when we are reading something remarkable we text each other.
Well, I blew my friends up today with this one.
I couldn’t stop sharing how much I loved this story.
“I have no idea what I want to be doing with my life, no idea what my purpose is, and no real sign of a life goal.
And yet time has found me
We all know how one decision can alter your whole life and that’s what this story is about.
I loved seeing the depth behind each decision.
I loved seeing how everyone’s life was altered by this decision not just Hannah’s.The idea that one decision can drastically shape your life is real to me.
Seeing Hannah on both journeys broke my heart.
Maybe in Another Life made me think about my own life and decisions; and I loved that.
Married, single, dating, I think this story is for anyone who ever questioned why things happen.
SO GOOD
The point I'm trying to make as a reviewer is that I don't like the way Reid wrote about Hannah's thought process, which I feel I have much more right and reason to critique than I do her decision.
(And if Reid glossed over this content because she felt backed into a corner by the difficulties of taking on a Serious Topic in a light summer beach read, then she should have amended the story, not glossed over it and hoped that most readers would just think it's nice that Hannah gets to keep her baby and be happy.)As for it being possible to be blissfully happy in some very different ways...
3.5 STARSThis book kept me glued to the pages until the very end. I really enjoyed this story about parallel universes. UPDATE:(view spoiler)[I only wish that there was another parallel universe added to this story - the one in which she decides to go live to London with her parents and meets charismatic British gentleman to steal her heart ;) (hide spoiler)]
Love it!I didn't think it was possible to become so involve with characters choices - thoughts- and feelings in a fiction audiobook book as much as if I were to read it physically myself...
The voices - and emotions were so good - I felt like I was in the same room ...(as another character in the story myself).
It's a story about choices we make in life - and raising questions about how much is just left to chance.
Or does choice choose us?
In this story we get involved in Hannah's life choices.
MAYBE in another life....we get to see what might happen - depending on what Hannah chooses.
"Life is long and full of an infinite number of decisions. I have to think that the small ones don't matter, that I'll end up where I need to end up no matter what I do. My fate will find me."Damn, this book was so so so good. Yes, this is a love story, but more importantly this story is about friendship and fate and how unpredictable life can be. This book is so unpredictable and so unique, I've never read anything like this. This is my second time reading a book from Taylor Jenkins Reid and sh
(hide spoiler)]The main reason I loved this book though wasn't because of the characters but the idea of fate is so thought provoking and interesting to me.
I absolutely love that no matter what happens in Hannah's life, her one constant is Gabby throughout everything.
Gabby is the only person in her life who never leaves and is always there, no matter where Hannah's decisions lead her.
What I’m getting at here is that I know there may be universes out there where I made different choices that led me somewhere else, led me to someone else.”“And my heart breaks for every single version of me that didn’t end up with you.” It's passages like that one that made me love this book.
Hannah has basically been on her own since she was sixteen years old and has moved from place to place looking for a "home", not realizing she's had one all along.
My main complaint is that I loved both stories and definitely wanted more!
And it bothered me how in one version I could love a character and hate him or her in the other!
But I loved both versions.
However, it flowed well and it definitely made you think.
I will definitely be checking out this author other and future works!
What if you had made one slightly different, even seemingly insignificant decision?
Would your life look totally different today because of it?Maybe in Another Life is a story about Hannah, and the two different paths her life could have gone in based on a decision she made one night on her return to LA.
A story of parallel, alternate universes.Taylor Jenkins Reid is a master at writing about human relationships - she develops authentic, organic connections with her great writing and witty, hilarious dialogue.Really looking forward to reading other books by this author.
What a great concept! Parallel universes, parallel life stories, diverging at a single decision!Unfortunately, the characters were boring and unidimensional, the plot(s) were puerile and passé, and the dialog was redundant, even within the single stories. How many times must I read about the "high bun" hairdo or the friend's "eye rolling"? How much vomiting--oh, wait, "puking"--must a careless, sexually active woman have before suspecting a pregnancy? And is finding the right man still the driving force in a woman's life--or was I transported to 1943, reading "Cherry Ames, Student Nurse"?Great concept, very poorly executed. Don't...just don't.
Not my fave TJR but this is one of her earlier books and I can see so much growth over the course of her writing. It was fun and I finished it in a day between the audio and physical.
"What I'm getting at here is that I know there may be universes out there where I made different choices and they led me somewhere else, led me to someone else. And my heart breaks for every single version of me that didn't end up with you."I just loved the ending (or maybe I should say endings) to Maybe in Another Life. This book was such a unique reading experience. Once again, Taylor Jenkins Reid takes readers on an emotional journey with characters that left me with a smile on my face.Hanna
Once again, Taylor Jenkins Reid takes readers on an emotional journey with characters that left me with a smile on my face.Hannah Martin just moved back to her hometown of Los Angeles from New York.
She moves in with her best friend, Gabby and her husband Mark who seem to have it all together.
At that moment, the book splits in two parts leading readers down two different paths in Hannah's life.This book was a lot of fun to read mostly because I haven't read anything like it.
Book 100 of the year yes maaaaamLOVED IT
Maybe in Another Life screams Sliding Doors.
If you've never watched Sliding Doors, it's a 1998 movie about a girl who's life takes two very different paths depending on one happenstance: She catches the train or the train doors shut a second too soon and she misses it.
They hurt and it was sad to see such a likable heroine suffer, but all the cinnamon rolls made up for it I guess!According to an online interview with the author Taylor Jenkins Reid, fate, chance, and soul mates are this story's most important themes...and it was no surprise to learn that Sliding Doors was indeed a strong inspiration for this book.
It is the ‘Sliding Doors’ concept of following the characters past this one decision through two alternate realities.
In fact there are some parts that are repeated verbatim from one chapter to the next adding an element of redundancy.There are serious life events and crises that occur within this novel, however, I did not feel like I really got to know the characters well.
Hannah, the main character, wears a high bun and loves cinnamon rolls.
Hannah lived with Gabby and her parents for the rest of high school.
