https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13890.A_Crown_of_Swords
I'm loving them more as I go along 🖤
When I read the prologue I thought this would be better than it's predecessor, after all it had such a great start but how wrong I was.
This book introduces a lot of new characters, of which Cadsuane Melaidhrine impressed me the most.
I am eager to know more of her powers and role she's going to play in Rand's campaign against the Dark Lord.
Even after being slow events of this book surely moved the story forward and it will be interesting to what happens in the next book.
The Crown of Swords.And for some reason, men and women who told the tales often found a need to add almost identical words.
The storm is coming.Whooooooosh.That’s just the sound of the plot development being blown out the window.A Crown of Swords is the slowest Wheel of Time book so far, by a clear mile.
If you think any of the previous books were slow, you’re in for a surprise.
I just want to spend more time in this world.And finally the protagonists seem to have grown up a bit.
The Dark One take you, Elaida.I think I'm in love with this series.Wheel of Time reviews:#1 
A Crown of Swords
If someone ever wanted to make the case against men writing women, they would probably find Robert Jordan's "The Wheel of Time" a treasure trove.*In fact, perhaps one of the biggest problems in this series is the way that Jordan writes his "strong female characters."To be honest, I think we're supposed to find all this description of temptation and modesty initially cute and amusing -- if nothing else, it's a balance for all that high level world-building suspense.
Re-reading helped -- perhaps because I knew this would be the last time we'd see Mat for a while -- but I still tend to rate A Crown of Swords one of the weaker novels in the series due to unacceptably high levels of poorly written "strong female characters."*Good examples of men writing women?
Almost all of the characters totally infuriate me but I love the writing, cultures, world building and overall plots so even when in this book everything moves at a snail’s pace and almost nothing really happens plot wise I’m still thoroughly entertained and enjoy most of the story.
I seriously think that there is only a small section of Aes Sedai that I like.
Often for our main characters the jump from just meeting to being in love is really short and has very little page time dedicated to the buildup of an actual relationship.
Full review to come, but for now, one quick observation.
normal?!?(Nah, that can't be it!) As always, here is my stacking of the Wheel of Time books, in order of favorite to least favorite:And to really illustrate how much reading this has entailed, here you can see the Wheel of Time book stack is even taller than this zombie teddy bear!!!
(As for why I have a zombie teddy bear on my dining room table...
And finally, the obligatory "Wow, that's a lot of pages" photo!REVIEW TO COME
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.My reviews of The Wheel of Time novels are getting just as repetitive as the actual books.
They carried knives too, of course, and their bold dark eyes sent ten sorts of challenge in every glance ...
Men with scarred faces and murder etched into their eyes stared openmouthed at seven Wise Women together, then bobbed jerky bows and inquired politely if they could be of assistance, was there anything that required carrying?
I read a lot of comments about Jordan's epic which mention (or outright complain about) its pace and staging.
It's not often that one finds such thoroughly realized visions of epic stories.
This series is a genuine throw-back in story-telling style.
Instead of going the route of non-stop, breathless action, Jordan spends a good deal of time taking his readers through the sometimes withering grind of day-to-day existence during a period of huge shifts in his world.
By the time we reach this point, things are becoming more grounded in the realization that the struggle is not going to be won quickly or easily.
The guy is an excellent storyteller and it is easy to get caught up in the stories of the various characters we have grown to like in the earlier books.
So how did our main characters fare in this one?Rand - The guy had a great outing.
Mat - This was a fantastic book for Mat. As always his scenes are stuffed full of humour but he showed good character growth and got to perform plenty of heroics.
Exciting events happen around him which is no wonder considering what happened in the end of the previous book and the fact that this one starts right where the former left, but Perrin's POV makes this read somewhat slow.
He later improves, but at the same time the most annoying subplot of the series starts (it is not so here yet), and I find it hard to be excited.Rand is being Rand: he is fine in the book even if a little arrogant which is justifiable considering his role, but he overdoes it at times.
(And I only got this far because I was on a long road trip/camping trip, and I picked them up cheap at a used book store in Anchorage, IIRC.) But I have to admit that I can't tell them apart.
I honestly have no idea what happened where after about book 1.
Which is, in large part, why I gave up on this atrocious pile of overwritten, paid-by-the-word crap.A friend of mine said, at the time, of Book 7, "Not much happened in this one.
What is there to say about their character anymore?
(Ok, maybe Jordan does tell us the last one.
This is where it all went downhill.I think it was our friend William "Bill" Shakespeare who wrote a play called "Much Ado About Nothing" but he might as well called it A Crown of Swords or the subsequent three or four books before the series' eventual redemption by Brandon Sanderson.Anyhow, I really don't remember much what happened.
I do remember that a lot did not happen.
And there were a million descriptions of dresses and how women like to stand akimbo and such, and it was all real time.If you go to Wikipedia and read about the books in the WoT series, then plotline descriptions for books 1-4 are long and thorough, less so for books 5-6, and for this one, mere three bullets.
Well, well. This one was quick. Some shit went down that I both loved and hated (view spoiler)[ Nynaeve and Lan - was waiting for an epic love story, but, nooooooo Nynaeve: We are getting marriedLan: M'kayWOT?! (hide spoiler)] and some shit that I'm not sure about. (view spoiler)[ Is Sammael really dead? Felt way too easy. Battling it out and stuff then BAM Mashadar. Rand should just lure all the foresaken to Mashadar. War over. (hide spoiler)]But really. I'm just all about Mat. Edgware had a fk
Some shit went down that I both loved and hated (view spoiler)[ Nynaeve and Lan - was waiting for an epic love story, but, nooooooo Nynaeve: We are getting marriedLan: M'kayWOT?!
(hide spoiler)] and some shit that I'm not sure about.
Rand should just lure all the foresaken to Mashadar.
(hide spoiler)]But really.
I'm just all about Mat. Edgware had a fkn long ass chapter in there, and I kept thinking 'when are we getting back to Mat?' And it was FUNNY!
LOVE HIM.
Rand: Bit of a slut.
Aviendah: Love her POV.
Mat: As if you don't love it, piglet.
I was so in love with this series, yes there were problems with it but I was still completely hooked on the story and eager to find out what would happen next, but then I read A Crown of Swords and it nearly ruined everything.I've ignored the fact that nearly every single female character spends half their time acting like an idiot and the rest screeching like a fishwife; I've put to one side the fact that Robert Jordan is pretty hopeless at creating believable romantic relationships (seriously do any of the couples actually speak to each other or do they all just stare longingly across the distance before suddenly declaring themselves head over heels in love?); and I've not even minded the way the story is taking so long to actually get anywhere but I can't ignore Tylin's actions in this book.
Nothing happens until the last 10% as usual.
So the book seven is over. 7 which is the lucky number, this is ironic because apparently the luck of someone finally came to an end…Full review to come.
But I have to admit the series has really started bogging down from the last book, and although sometimes I really got frustrated while reading the book but I am going to continue with the series as Sanderson has ended it.Some of the strong points of the book wereRand's pov.Rand taking strong decisions.Children of light story.Some of the weak points of book areElayne & Nyaneve's search for bowl of wind.Too many Aes sedai.Let me elaborate on the above points furtherRand's pov.As we knew from the last book that the current amrylin had hatched an conspiracy by which she will be able to kidnap Rand, and bring him to the tower so that she can control him.
Executive Summary: This is another book I enjoyed more the second time around. It's still not as strong as the early or later books in this series, but it was better than I remembered.Audiobook: Another fantastic job by Micheal Kramer and Kate Reading. Both are great as usual and add that little something extra to the book with their narration. Full Review The middle books of this series are slow. We get a lot of unnecessary subplots and meandering (not to mention braid tugging and skirt straigh
Executive Summary: This is another book I enjoyed more the second time around.
It's still not as strong as the early or later books in this series, but it was better than I remembered.Audiobook: Another fantastic job by Micheal Kramer and Kate Reading.
Despite the slow start there are just some parts of this book I really love and have been looking forward to since starting my reread.It's hard to say why I enjoyed this better the first time.
I suspect it's a combination for knowing what's coming next, my love of characters who stop being so annoying later in the series and the fantastic audio narration.It's hard to get into details here without spoilers.
Another reread done & dusted at BBB as we reach the halfway mark in this truly epic series. This one was slow. But still oh so good. Robert Jordan clearly had a talent for storytelling. I know there are people who HATE these middle books, but I am still enjoying them immensely and cannot find much fault. Right. Spoiler filled remark time.(view spoiler)[- Another Forsaken bites the dust. At least we think so. Yeah. He’s dead. Probably. For sure. Once you have a taste of Mashadar you ain’t eve
Another reread done & dusted at BBB as we reach the halfway mark in this truly epic series.
Spoiler filled remark time.(view spoiler)[-	Another Forsaken bites the dust.
He just called on his buddy Mashadar to take out Rand.
Now THAT’s an Aes Sedai.
-	Perrin pretty much did the traveling quest thing throughout the book.-	Rand is rescued in Shadar Logoth by he who I may not name.-	Lan gets his Nynaeve on.
At freaking last.-	Moghedien almost murders Nynaeve.
But close.-	Nynaeve loses her block.
-	Egwene starts to make some offensive moves on the rebel aes sedai front.
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."The reason it has taken me long time to finish this book is because I haven't gotten enough time to read it.I love the writing, cultures and world-building.I love this book a lot. Alhamdulillah.
Not that it was not there, but the forced ridiculousness was less prevalent in this regard than in previous books.But then chapter 29 happened, and was followed by the rest of the book, and this was by far the worst thing out of all that had happened in the series thus far, mostly because it was the author's storytelling blunder.(view spoiler)[Mat was raped by Tylin.
I was disgusted with the behavior of Tylin and the enthusiastic support she received from palace hands and other Ebou Dari women, but even that I was able to understand as an in-world problem rather than a problem with how the author was presenting the story.
It's really an amazing world that I love being immersed in, so I have to keep reminding myself that the journey is what I bought the ticket for.Having said that (I feel like I've been saying this a lot lately), there are plenty of things to comment on and have fun with despite my immense enjoyment.I was warned about this book and the immense slow down that this series takes and it's not too surprising given the last couple books in the series, but it is still a bit frustrating (but see above!).
Master of the lightnings, rider on the storm,wearer of a crown of swords, spinner-out of fate.Who thinks he turns the Wheel of Time,may learn the truth too late...It's really really hard to summarize a book like this due to its length and how far along it is in the series.
Much like the previous book in the series, not a lot of action takes place until the last two hundred pages.
All the things that make this series fantastic continue on in this book.My favorite aspects of this book are that Lan and Nynaeve have finally reunited, and Cadsuane finally appears.
There are three major plotlines here: one follows Rand's preparations for a showdown with Sammael and his dealing with the events that led to the battle at Dumai's Well, the second one is the hunt for the Bowl of Winds and the third one follows Egwene's attempts to whip the rebel Aes Sedai into a proper replacement for the White Tower and convince them to declare war on Elaida.
Instead she's playing Aes Sedai and then bitches about the way Rand is handling Andor.
As soon as Nynaeve ended up underwater, I suddenly realized what the cover was portraying and, since I had already been expecting Lan to show up at any time, I was certain the male character on the cover must be Lan. But at least I wasn’t spoiled about it until right before it happened.I was never quite sure if the author intended for Queen Tylin’s pursuit of Mat to be funny, but I found those parts disturbing.
I did like seeing Elayne and (sort of) Nynaeve treat Mat with some more respect finally.
In my memory it was always just one in a long run of books in this series where nothing much happens and characters are thrown into seemingly endless subplots that arent very entertaining and seem like they're designed just to give people things to do until the final act (Perrin being sent to grab Masema, I'm looking in your direction) It has some pretty big flaws for sure - the atrocious Tylin-Mat "relationship", which has probably been talked to death and doesn't need to be covered again except to say it was very very poorly judged, the sudden introduction of Cadsuane, the most wonderful Aes Sedai who ever lived though she was literally never mentioned once before this book and who turns out to be largely exactly the same as every other Aes Sedai (except better!!!) - and not a whole lot happens until the very end of the book, which is the exact same problem Lord of Chaos had.
I don't think that this instalment could really top book 6 being shorter and slower as it was, but there are still some highly interesting new developments in this book.The first thing I noticed was that in this story Elayne and Nynaeve really take centre stage on their mission whilst Mat also features a lot more in this book than he has done in previous volumes.
She is forced to figure things out and start to really become a leader which I liked a lot.Aviendha is with Elayne and Nynaeve so although we only see her POV a little bit we do know what is going on with her.
I mean, when you have chapters like "A Bath" and "Bread and Cheese" you know there is some action packed adventure right there!3) I hate all the women in his books.
I don't remember if I ever, in all seven books, read a chapter where women actually laughed, and they were happy, nice, polite and charming.
And I say finally not because I love reading about it (quite the contrary actually), but because for some strange reason, fantasy book just can't go without at least one rape scene.
This book ends my Wheel of Time adventure thank God.
È TORNATO LAAAAN. Mi mancava.Adesso spero che usino la scodella dei venti in fretta però.
Muuuuucho más lento que los demás. Aún así sigue estando chachi, es más un ver la evolución de los personajes que lo que pasa en la trama. A por el 8!
