https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21325.Fables_Vol_4
I like that the depth of this world and these characters continues to grow with time, and I think that this bumper volume really did help to flesh a lot of things out.I always find these fun to read and this one was certainly no exception.
I will be looking forward to going into Volume #5 a lot more now as I really found myself hooked by the turns we took in this story and I think things will only get more dramatic from this point on!
Great issues.
It had multiple woodies.
Well, the Adversary has found the citizens living in their new world and he is sending people in to collect them.
There is an epic battle of witches not seen since Glinda and the Wicked witch of the west or Merlin and mad madame Mim. Battle of the crypt keepers.Bigby saves the day, snow is very pregnant and the race for mayor is really heating up.
Charming is putting his charm on high, set for stun.
A lot is happening and it is a entertaining story.
Even the animals from the farm get involved in this one.
Maybe my favorite volume.(concerning the march of the wooden soldiers towards Fabletown)Mother: Tom, look at THIS!Son: Is it a parade?Mother: I don't think so.
Maybe a demonstration?Father: No, they're all too WHITE to be Black pride, or Latino pride, or Asian pride.Mother: They're all well-dressed.
Could they be gay pride?Father: I doubt it.
Their suits are way too conservative.Son: And they have all those guns.Father: Oh my God!
They're marching in -- taking over New York!Mother: Just like when they marched on Paris in '39.Son: Weren't those the Nazis?Mother: Is there a difference?Son: Does this mean we get Giuliani back?
"Make sure their heads are removed, no matter how dead they seem."In my opinion, this is the best volume of Fables so far. Lots of fast plot and action with a not too overwhelming amount of romance and drama. Loved it! 4.75
That said due to the continuing strength of the fractured fairytale series I fully recommend these novels to fans of fairytales, graphic novels/comics and television shows like 'Grimm' or 'Once Upon a Time'.In a way, Fables is structured like a procedural type of drama.
In this particular edition Snow White's pregnancy continues to develop, along with the stigma and issues connected to that; Prince Charming runs for mayor; Bigby hunts out dangers to Fabletown and Boy Blue's love life is brought under the spotlight.Now some more snobbish or literary motivated individuals might take affront to the fact that I've taken a break from my more literary endeavours to read an addictive 'comic book series'.
So what happens when Little Red Riding Hood comes strolling into fabletown.
Least Boy Blue told the story of the fight of his life with his solider buddies before the Advisory and all his minions came to fuck shit up and force the fables to retreat into our world.
Will the evil of the red riding hood convert everyone against the wolf?
Good: The fight is really great here.
Also how great was the backstory to their world and how damaged our poor fables are?
This is the strongest volume yet, giving us a lot of great moments, both fighting and dialog.
I made frands with the comic book store owner. We connected over a deep mutual hatred for Prince Charming and double layer chocolate cake.Also, I love this series.
this was pretty good, but one question remains: WHAT. HAPPENED. TO. THE ART? I can barely recognize some of the MAIN characters anymore. WHY DOES EVERYONE LOOK SO UGLY? I don’t understand.
This world is fun, enjoy.Story: The 'Last Castle' story is pretty heartbreaking and that fact that it makes a side character from the book become so much more is amazing.
Then the meat of this arc is of course the invasion and it's so good, I won't go into detail except that the pacing is great, the dialog is amazing and the huge cast of characters new and old are mesmerizing to read, it's so good.Characters: Boy Blue is great, his story is heartbreaking and also so deep and complex that I love this character now.
দয বযাটল অফ দয ফেবলটাউন! সনো হোয়াইটের কষুরধার বুদধিমততায় দুরধরষ যুদধপরিচালনার পারদরশিতা!! ফেবলদের বীরতব, ফেবলদের আতমতযাগ!! বিগবি উলফের শেষ সময়ের অতিকাঙখিত উপসথিতি আর সেভে যুদধজয়!!! উফ, পুরা রকতগরম হয়ে গেল... কে ভেবেছিল একটা পরাচীন শিশুতোষ রূপকথার আধুনিক রিটেলিং পড়ে এমন শবাসরুদধকর পিঠসোজা করা টানটান উততেজনার অনুভূতি হবে, এহেন তুমুল যুদধ-অযাকশন-মারামারি-কোপাকুপি'র মধযে দিয়ে?! ওয়াও, ওয়াও, ওয়াও। সিরিজের একেকটা বই পড়ি আর মনে হয় এইটা আগেরটার চেয়েও জোস, আর পরেরটা পড়ে আবিষকার করি সেটা আরো বেশি জোস! ফেবল
দ্য ব্যাটল অফ দ্য ফেবলটাউন!
স্নো হোয়াইটের ক্ষুরধার বুদ্ধিমত্তায় দুর্ধর্ষ যুদ্ধপরিচালনার পারদর্শিতা!!
ফেবলদের বীরত্ব, ফেবলদের আত্মত্যাগ!!
বিগবি উলফের শেষ সময়ের অতিকাঙ্খিত উপস্থিতি আর সেভে যুদ্ধজয়!!!
কে ভেবেছিল একটা প্রাচীন শিশুতোষ রূপকথার আধুনিক রিটেলিং পড়ে এমন শ্বাসরুদ্ধকর পিঠসোজা করা টানটান উত্তেজনার অনুভূতি হবে, এহেন তুমুল যুদ্ধ-অ্যাকশন-মারামারি-কোপাকুপি'র মধ্যে দিয়ে?!
ওয়াও, ওয়াও, ওয়াও। সিরিজের একেকটা বই পড়ি আর মনে হয় এইটা আগেরটার চেয়েও জোস, আর পরেরটা পড়ে আবিষ্কার করি সেটা আরো বেশি জোস!
ফেবলস ঝড়ের বেগে কাহিনি এগিয়ে নেয়ার পাশাপাশি শুধু একের পর এক চমক দেখিয়েই যাচ্ছে, আশা করি সিরিজের শেষ পর্যন্ত এই ধার ও গতি অক্ষুন্ন থাকবে পুরোপুরি। ১০ এ ১০ নিশ্চিন্তে।
3.5 starsReally enjoyed the addition of the wooden soldier army, loved how they talked and acted, they were hilarious.
The battle at the end was pretty great as well.
The artwork was a bit of a hit and miss though, some characters were drawn rather weirdly at times, either their facial expressions had too much detail or not enough.Not liking the whole Snow/Bigby nonsense, I thought it might be interesting at one point but they turned Snow into a damsel-in-distress at the battle and Bigby into an over the top superhero-alpha.
I have a feeling the clichés and ridiculousness will only get worse between them.
Wow! Another great Fable comic!
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. I love this series more and more, the deeper we get into the story. As I said in my review for the previous volume, at the beginning, when it was just a bunch of characters seemingly without a set purpose, I wasn't fully convinced. Sure, it was fun and all, but I couldn't possibly imagine how they could make as many volumes as they did if the story continued the same way.Good news: It didn't. Fables has slowly been evolving, volume by volume, and gettin
Because the fables, and especially the fairytales, as a genre, didn't always used to be all insta-love and happy endings, the way we have them now.
On the contrary, they used to be quite horrifying, starting with Hansel and Gretel being eaten, and not by far ending with Cinderella being beaten to death by her step-mother.And speaking of gruesome characters, I absolutely loved the witch fight in this volume.
I'm fully convinced that this was, as of yet, the most bad-ass fight in Fables, and I hope they keep it up.I won't spoil anything about the actual stories, because unlike the previous volume, for example, in this one there are major spoilers.
Wow that was a long one. I'm really falling in love with these.I didn't much care for the wooden soldier villains or the conflict in this one, though I did like the addition of Red Riding Hood (view spoiler)[ for as long as I thought she was Red Riding Hood (hide spoiler)]. Snow and Bigby are still perfect, but they didn't get much exposure in this one and I missed them.
Şu ana kadar ki en iyi ciltti. Heyecanlı olaylar yaşandı, ilginç yeni karakterler geldi ve merak ettirici bir sonla bitti. Devamını okumayı çok istiyoruum.
It starts with the tale told by Little Boy Blue of the fall of the final fable fortress to the Adversary.
Red Riding Hood was assumed fallen in that conflict- but she appears in Fableland seeking asylum.
The massed army of dolls attacks led by the mysterious Red Riding Hood.
It also turns out that Red is actually Baba Yaga, the ancient witch.
There is an excellent battle between her and the witch from the Hansel and Gretel story.
I enjoyed seeing the Fables at war and especially enjoyed the battle between Baba Yaga and Frau Totenkinder (it's German for dead children).
If you haven't read Fables yet-start.
I have never been a big fan of comic books/graphic novels but this series is really doing a lot to change my mind because it is fantastic. Pick it up you won't regret it!
The longest and probably the best volume so far. So glad I've picked up this series.

Fables continues to be a good series for me, I really need to pick these volumes up more frequently, but luckily I got this for Christmas!
So continuing on from Vol 3, Prince Charming is now running for mayor, at the same time Red Riding Hood, who was thought to be lost in the escape of The Homelands, shows up one day and wants citizenship, which has Bigby suspicious!
This volume is defiantly the most grand scale one I have read so far; and the story evolves around what drove the Fables out of their Homelands, even including an issue of them trying to escape which I appreciated!
I rather liked this volume. We're finally shedding some of the status quo of the settled nature of the Fables and shaking things up again: we're finally seeing more of the Adversary, at least in that now he's threatening the Fables once more. I liked the story of Red Riding Hood and Boy Blue, and the battle scenes were pretty epic.And I can't help but like Prince Charming a bit, somehow. He's an ass, but he's funny (witness the scene with Beauty and Beast) and he's smart.
THE BEST out of the volumes so far!We got to know more about the wooden soliders.Boy Blue and Red Riding Hood. I wonder if the "real" her will pop up.Great fight scenes.Pinocchio dies... (i think). Sad! :( Now it looks like Snow and Bigby are diving into this next volume seeing their baby(s)!I still can not believe Pinocchio is gone. He was by far my favorite character, besides Snow.On to volume 5...
Brief Introduction: After reading the third volume in Bill Willingham’s popular graphic novel series, “Storybook Love,” I was interested in seeing more of the many adventures of the “Fables” characters! “Fables: March of the Wooden Soldiers” is probably the most intense volume I had read so far in the “Fables” series as it deals with the Fables characters being engaged in war! Anyone who is a fan of the “Fables” series will definitely want to check this volume out! What is the story? The story
“Fables: March of the Wooden Soldiers” is probably the most intense volume I had read so far in the “Fables” series as it deals with the Fables characters being engaged in war!
I loved the way that Bill Willingham provided a prologue story called “The Last Castle” that actually explains about how the fables escaped from the Adversary and Little Boy Blue’s romance with Red Riding Hood since the story was truly unique and intense at the same time.
I also loved the intensity that Bill Willingham put into the story “March of the Wooden Soldiers” as the theme of war is explored and all the characters are truly affected.
I can't believe I paid £3 for an interlibrary loan to read these comics.Snow White is still acting like an idiot so that Bigby can be the big-damn-hero and swoop in and save her.
Having established that Snow White can ex-communicate people without due process, execute people with show trials, allocate funds however she wishes, rule without any checks and balances – yet Prince Charming can initiate an election with nothing more than a fucking petition?
Snow says things like this, other characters cave, and the reader is left wondering: 'What could she possibly do to them?
Comic Review Fable #10-15Visual Design, Art, Drawing - 8/10Storyline - 8/10Characters- 7/10Rating - 4/5P.S. - Especially liked Jack's Tale. (5/5)
It took time for me to warm up to Fables, to feel like I knew and liked the "new" characters, the idea of Fabletown, even the tone of the storytelling.
I'm not a short story reader, I'm a novel person, so the vast number of characters and the sheer weight of background history left me feeling like I'd seen bits and glimpses, but never enough to really sink my teeth into.This volume really pulls the Fables together for me - not only because of how the recurring characters are more three-dimensional with each succeeding bit of story, but also thanks to the epic nature of the battle here.
May 8, 2017: Another great volume in the Fables series. This time Adversary decides to make a move into the Mundane world and he has a surprising ally. Some intriguing possibilities are uncovered here. Something tells me Pinocchio is to play a much larger role in the future. On the other hand Snow White and Bigby are about to embark on the new chapter of their lives. Oh yeah, and apparently Saskatchewan has a portal into the fairyland. Who woulda thunk?
A lil too much fighting for me in this one but it was very thrilling and intense aaand I love the characters!!
Better than the last volume. I hope the series will explore more about the old homelands and the Empire!
I am so addicted to this series. I won't be doing super in-depth reviews on these ones but I will try and add my thoughts on them very soon.
