https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40881.Big_Planet
The adventure begins as Claude Gystra and his men realize they will have to trek 40, 000 miles across Big Planet to arrive at Earth Enclave (essentially the Earth embassy) in order to contact Earth authorities and be rescued.
In the first three pages, the Captain and first mate are murdered, the ship crashes, a nun is crushed to death, our hero is fed soup by a country maiden on an alien planet, and adventure beckons.
The thing that is new, the sociological approach to alien civilizations, seems almost secondary, like something Vance invented by accident.
Jack Vance is a sci-fi writer who concocts grand, majestic space operas packed with action, brainless but hot women, and tough, grizzled male heroes.
A ship full of intrepid earthlings arrive to check the place out and clean up some of the corruption that's been going on outside of earth's jurisdiction.
Vance is technically a sci-fi writer, but he's most interested in the way humans interact in strange and alien places.
Vance is best described as a manly poet of the sci-fi world, and should be read at least once if only because you'll never read anyone like him.
CVIE vol IIIMost Vance novels include a travelogue in one form or another, as cool but perceptive characters wander through weird and beautiful landscapes.
Big Planet takes that approach to its extreme as we follow Earthman Claude Glystra, who, having crashed on the planet due to sabotage, must survive a dangerous journey back to the safety of Earth Enclave.The standard Vance tropes are in place here - strange fashions, bizarre habits, mysterious strangers.
There's less of the clever language that Vance loves, and that makes his books so much fun.
On the other hand, the lead characters are more approachable and less aloof than they often are.
One of the worst books I've ever read.
I'll read your story about a long, slow painful death from dysentery and enthusiastically rate it 5 stars before I'll recommend this book to anyone.
I knew it was bad when one of the male characters pats a woman on the head without any irony or humor.
pats a full grown woman.
And then the man says "she's a good nurse"!
However defending this book by saying it's the "attitude of the times!" won't hold up.
A commission is sent from Earth to Big Planet to investigate the new Conqueror and see whether there should be any kind of intervention.
Unfortunately, the ship crashes due to sabotage and the group sets out on a 40,000 mile journey to the other side of the planet and the safety of Earth Enclave.
I gather this is an early example of the Quest through a Strange Land type of novel, so you can't fault it for being unimaginative, and some might call it a progenitor, but unfortunately it's not one of the first that I read.Now that I think about it, I was enjoying it just fine until my favorite character died [I don't consider this a spoiler because you don't have any idea who my favorite character is.] and now I'm just pissed.
Read in the VIE
The more Jack Vance novels I read, the more formulaic they appear to be.
Big Planet is a very early, planetary adventure, science fiction novel by Jack Vance that will probably appeal more to Vance fans than the general reader.
These diverse tribes and cities are only minimally developed by Vance, but it is still somewhat interesting to read.But basically this very early novel by Vance is a mixed bag.
Although there is some description of interesting or unusual tribes and towns, there is really minimal "world building" in the complex, fascinating way that Vance presents in many of his later works.
I understand Big Planet also has historical importance in the development of early science fiction.
However, the ship is sabotaged by one of the crew members and crash landed into a remote village of Big Planet called Jubilith and thus begins a quest to travel 40,000 miles across the planet to the safety of Earth Enclave, with the Bajarnum on their tails at every step.The plot is quite straight forward and primarily serves as a means for Vance to do what he does best—that is, take the reader on a grand tour of an exotic, alien world.
Vance takes this reality and spins out all number of intriguing consequences.Reportedly (no historian of science-fiction am I) Big Planet is the start or near the start of the constructed societies genre, world building.
Odd how, at least for myself, I can read Victorian fiction and the way women are treated and portrayed, and while it is reprehensible, it doesn't spoil much of the fiction for me, while when I read stuff, such as Big Planet from the fifties and I just want to crawl under a rock and die it is sooooo damn bad.
This is one of the few books of Vance I didn't read yet.
I did read the other Big Planet book (Showboat World), which was a fun read in the picaresque style of Cugel.Already in the first few pages it is noticable this is one of his earlier works.
It reminded me a lot of the planetary adventure of the Planet of Adventure books.Naming things was not Vance's strong point at this time.
It;s very episodic, but also not directly the picaresque fun of the Cugel books.
Lot's of tell instead of show.Fun to read knowing he got much, much better.
Avventura a non finireQui siamo di fronte ad una fantascienza dilatata, non strettamente tecnologica, governata da un senso d'avventura che tende a non lasciar respirare il lettore, quasi in corsa contro le pagine. Aspetto, quest'ultimo, che restituisce indubbiamente una lettura dinamica, vivace — Vance è dotato di una frizzante fantasia e in grado di creare differenti atmosfere, con ritmi serrati e affascinanti al tempo stesso —, ma col rischio di far perdere al lettore qualche pezzo durante la corsa.
Early Vance, but still worth a read, considering how short it is. The story is simple as are most of the characters. The main draw here are the strange societies of Big Planet. If you are a Vance fan, check it out.
Interesting but somehow not satisfying
A ano, člověk ztrácí něco ze zvláštního Vanceho jazyka, ale zase aspoň nemusí pořád přemýšlet, jestli to slovo existuje nebo si ho autor vymyslel.
Jako u většiny Vanceho knížek, je i tady záminka, aby hrdinové mohli cestou potkávat podivné lidi a atypické kolonie.
tady se přece jen musí aspoň malilililinko držet reality.
Když je to zbavené jeho archaického jazyka, je cítit, že už je to starší věc - hlavně zasazením milostného motivu.
Děj je jednoduchý, se zákruty se autor nemaže - ale pořád jsou tu hezké detaily a zajímavé civilizační nápady.
Jack vance is arguably the best Author in all history.To me only AE van Vogt, Michael Moorcock, and Robert E Howard even come close.WOWWhy aren't there movies like this? Do the star wars franchise sue anyone with space battles? and feudalistic plots? heh makes me wonder !Inspired me to write some dying earth and future dyaing earth stuff.Enoy the other jack vance stuff like the dying earth, planet of adventure tschai, and basically anything liek magnus rindolf, etc etc etc Reading Vance was once described as velvety smooth....Its just astounding.....and all original as far as I can see...
Skip this one, it's not worth it. I barely managed to wade through 36% of it on Kindle before giving up. No character development, no usual beautiful Vancian prose, and the worst crime of all - it was extremely bland and BORING. This is the worst kind of fifties scifi pulp fiction. Go and read Vance's "The Magnificent Showboats of the Lower Vissel River, Lune XXIII, South Big Planet" (you can also find it under the title "Showboat world") instead, which is a wonderful novel, as entertaining and funny and clever as anything in his Dying Earth series.
Il grande guaio di un qualsiasi genere letterario, quando passa per la sua età dell'oro, è che ci sono troppi grandi autori, troppi capolavori, e numerose gemme passano inosservate.Jack Vance è meno citato di altri autori Fantasy e Fantascientifici, il suo Glystra non ha mai avuto una trasposizione cinematografica o una serie televisiva.Eppure lo meriterebbe.Da leggere per tutti i cultori del genere.
La Planète Géante met en scène des personnages échoués sur une planète extrêmement hostile. Claude Glystra et ses compagnons vont devoir lutter pour leur survie dans ce récit d'aventures bourré d'action ! https://leschroniquesduchroniqueur.wo...
This is a great book. Full of nasty things but heavily entertaining because of Jacks unique ideas and grotesque settings. This book is not for those who likes to read about how everything should be right, Megan. It's an extreme experiment in an attempt to show human interactions in harsh environments. No one should take this as the way jack Vance thought the world should be.The underground world was my favorite part. Every page of this book made me thinking about how it was even possible to come up with stuff like that, which is awesome!
I picked up this book a few years ago, read the first few chapters, couldn't shake the impression that it was utterly worthless, closed the book, put it down, went on with my life.
I admit that I'm writing this review based on the remembered impressions of the first fraction of a book that I read years ago, but hey.
Rather than organically working them into the story in a way that makes them interesting to me, I have to pretty much remember who they are through my own effort.
Older science fiction is replete with this bullshit, protagonists getting laid for no obvious reason other than their central position in the story.
Earth sends one of its occasional commissions to thwart him, but the spaceship is sabotaged on landing and ends up forty thousand miles away from home base.
The crew, led by Claude Glystra, must make their way to safety across a dangerous land with no metals, and therefore no swift means of travel or communication.I read this once before years ago, may have been the first book by Vance I ever read in fact.
He can write action too, only he tends to prefer the journey to the destination so Big Planet, like the other books I have read by Vance, had some quirkily impressive stops along the way only to become bored of itself and promptly end.
Was not all that impressed with the story or setting for the first half of the book.It is essentially an adventure novel, apart from the monsters and strange creatures it could all just as well have taken place on Earth.
Looking forward to finding the second Big Planet book even though the planet itself appears to be nothing more than a semi-blank canvas for the stories to play out on, it is an interesting look into the workings early Vance and Sci-fi work.
When I read the blurb I expected an epic novel akin to Planet of Adventure.
The survivors have to flee from the wrath of the Barjarnum of Beaujolais, their enemy, and overcome one colourful obstacle after the other.
The book gets better after a while, but it left me unsatisfied.
The encounters with different cultures and communities are as disjointed as Big Planet itself and they lack colour and detail.
And in the end, the book might just as well have been called Small Planet for all the travelling they got done.
I will read the sequel (Showboat World) but would much rather re-read Planet of Adventure.
One of the first books of Vance I didn't like.
The story wasn't very interesting.
The premise, where a party of protagonists have to somehow cross 40,000 miles of planet on foot, seemed implausible at the outset.
With slightly over 200 pages of book, I was pretty sure they weren't going to make it; or there would be a great ellipsis and suddenly we would be years along with 39999 miles behind us.
The last few chapters of the book were the most engaging, and if it had been trimmed down to these essential few, it would have been a pretty sharp short story.I would not recommend this book.
Big Planet is an early work by Jack Vance, and like much of Vance’s early output is a little uneven in quality.
Despite its size (around 25,000 miles according to a later novel set in the same setting) the planet is of low density, with earthlike gravity and atmosphere, but lacking in metals, making ownership of any metal object valuable.The planet has for many years been viewed as a place for outcasts and odd groups and individuals to go if they wished to escape the rigid constraints of the stellar areas under the direct rule of Earth.
While this has worked out for the many groups and cults who emigrated to Big Planet, their descendants in many cases are trapped in various pockets of anarchy and slavery that exist on the ungoverned...
There are some fundamental "science fiction ideas" in this novel. Overall, a band of Earthmen gets stranded on Big Planet (a huge planet that absorbed the diaspora of earthlings hundreds of years previous.) The little group makes its way across the planet - some ridiculously gigantic mileage (40,000) - to rid the planet of a power-mad villain. At points, Vance attempts to describe mechanical things, but it's a little difficult to follow. The characters in the book are mostly flat and without much depth whatsoever. The ending is trite, at best.
Jack Vance is one of these mythical figures in the world of science fiction. I've met many a Jack Vance fan. In fact, knew one who proofread one of the books in the collected works were just put out without seeing the smallest financial remuneration or other. (He bought the twenty-plus volumes like everyone else.) But this book didn't fit the picture I've heard tell of wild imagination and brilliant wit.
Early Vance novel but with the vintage style and weird imagination his SF stories is known for. This one has a flawed, unconvincing ending but it was enjoyable book. Just so many great later Vance books I have read to compare with.
One of Vance's early books. Pretty much just an adventure like all his other books. The writing isn't as good as his later stories, and that is what came to set him apart from every other science fiction adventure hack.
