https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44001.Small_Island
Books like this are why I study English literature at university, books like this are why I read so ferociously.
The raptured wife- Hortense- She is attracted to this idea of England.
For her, this idea of England is something she has always wanted.
She is the most complex character in the novel, and the one I enjoyed reading about the most.
He such a repulsive man to read about, but his type is one that infests history.
It’s like Levy slowly peeled away the layers of the characters, and revealed them one step at a time.
One of the judges remarked that it is:“a brilliantly observed novel of a period of English history that many people seem not to know much about”“a masterful depiction of a society on the verge of major changes.”The novel interweaves the stories of four people, all of whom are affected by the historical context, which involves World War II, the British Empire, and the effect of colonialism on those living in Jamaica.It begins in 1948, as England is recovering from the war.
I loved this book, but I realize that I am very biased because I am Jamaican, and have many relatives who emigrated to the UK from Jamaica, so the characters were immediately real and recognizable to me.
On a visit to Jamaica last year, I heard her interviewed and she said she was writing as much for Jamaicans as for a wider audience, and she knew the book wouldn't ring true to us if the characters didn't speak patois much of the time.I think it's a fascinating look at the first wave of West Indian immigrants to the place they had been taught to think of as the "mother country", and the responses they received from white Britons when they arrived.
But it also the story of two nations, England and the West Indies, as reflected in the very private lives and thoughts of these people.Both Hortense and Gilbert want to escape from their small island of Jamaica to the "Mother" country England right, the capital of the British Empire, which they consider themselves proud to be part of: Gilbert even things himself entitled, as he has fought for his country in the Second World War, which has just ended.
In England, they lodge at the house of Queenie Bligh, whom Gilbert had fancied at one point of time: in dismal lodgings to the horror of Hortense.
But added to that it is a great read on interracial relationships and interactions in England during the Second World War, where Jamaicans, Americans, Brits and many others tried to make sense of skin color, race, social status, and what all that should signify when surviving the same war.
Where mainstream history books talk about the war in terms of Europeans, the Canadians, the Americans and the Japs, Small Island sheds a much needed light on all those who fought the war.A must read for Literature Lovers, and a must read for those who are interested in interracial relationships, culture (ex)change, race and racism, the Caribbean, and the Second World War.
I wanted to enjoy this book because I am a West Indian now and did the reverse journey - first world UK to backward little Caribbean island, but the journey was a lot more enjoyable than the book.I finished it by an act of will and apart from odd scenes of violence or lasciviousness, it didn't hold my attention.
Like the sea washing the sand clean with each wave, so did each page disappear from my memory as the next one was read.
Bye Small Island, I've moved on and forgotten you now...
However it did not really do what I thought it set out do, which was to chronicle the early years of the Windrush generation.
There are four narrators; Hortense and Gilbert from Jamaica and Queenie and Bernard who are English (although Bernard feels like a bit of an add on, arriving in the last quarter of the book).
Too much time, I think for the length of the novel.
I think Levy is trying to write three novels in one.
Levy describes the surprise and disappointment of the new arrivals as the encounter post-war London.All in all a bit of a varied mixture which tried to do too much.
I have a hard time putting into words my feelings about this book.Small Island is the story of four people in the aftermath of WW II.
Levy is concerned with the experience of immigrants and racial issues in post War London.I dont think the story could have been told in a shorter span, and it is one of those that you understand why it won the awards that it did.
It's realism puts the reader on shakey ground It's an ending that makes you think about everything Levy has been writing about.
This was a very heartfelt and moving story.  I throughly enjoyed Levy’s writing style. It was so picturesque that I felt like I was also in Jamaica, England, and India along with the stories’s characters.This story was a warm breath of fresh air on a cool early fall day.
Story around the ship The Windrush, told through the eyes of two Jamaicans and a British couple and in two distinct times (1948 and "before"). Hortense, the main narrator to begin with, is interesting but unsympathetic (very snobbish and judges people by how dark their skin is). Interesting glimpse into the different ways black people were viewed and treated by US forces, British forces and various British civilians, which is different again from Bernard's views of India and its inhabitants. Linguistic contrasts too: educated Jamaicans alternating between local patois and overly-formal King's English. And which is the eponymous "small island"?
The author manages to show compassion for all the characters and write the story in such a way that this international bestseller speaks toa very wide audience.
Hortense Joseph, an immigrant from Jamaica, settles in London in 1948, after leaving her beloved island for a better life; a new beginning.
As a British colony, the island's men went to fight on the British side, only to discover afterwards, when they immigrated to England, that they were actually regarded as second class citizens and unwelcome.
interview with the author about this book.
That it looks at the situation of Caribbean immigrants in Britain after the war, keeps me reading.I continue.*****************Having continued, and now after completing chapter 28:Finally, I have run into an episode that I think is well done - the attraction and tension felt between Queenie and (view spoiler)[Michael Roberts (hide spoiler)] when they first meet.
The four main characters are Queenie, Bernard, Hortense and Gilbert.
Queenie and Bernard are married, white and Cockney-speaking British.
That Queenie (view spoiler)[gives birth to a black child, the father being Michael, presents a difficult situation.
I cannot imagine Queenie (view spoiler)[remaining married to Bernard (hide spoiler)]!
One of the quieter tragedies of the novel is the similarity in personality and opinions between Queenie and Hortense: the barriers that exist in everyone’s heads make it impossible for the two women even to realise all the ways in which they’re alike, let alone become friends as they may have been able to several decades later.Small Island is a school text these days, and I think that’s a good thing.
However, Andrea Levy is such a gifted writer that she is able to breathe humor into even desolate circumstances and situations.
Then, in chapter one, we skip to 1948, to Hortense's point of view in the now, when all four characters are in England.
At that point, we dip into the now (1948), following several of the characters in short chapters before going back to the childhood of the next character, and once again coming forward now with that person to 1948.
A book to read again and again.
Please do yourself a favor and read this book.
I've been looking for novels about immigrants, I read The Beautiful Things That Heaven Bears (which was kind of a drag) and I have Petropolis sitting on my shelf (hope that will be better).
Still, as a white reader, I do have to ask myself if people were so very horrible to Jamaican immigrants in Britain, and the food being so very appalling, and the weather so horribly cold, why would they put up with it all and stay?
I think a great companion piece to this novel will be White Teeth, also by a smart black British female writer.
As a serviceman he found he was treated much better by the English than either in America or by the white GI’s in London, but as a civilian he realises he has gone back to being a second class citizen and increasingly refuses to submit to prejudice.Hortense – desperate to escape Jamaica but shocked at the reality of London – both how shabby and decrepit it is as well as how she is seen as inferior due to her colour despite her superior speech, knowledge and training.Queenie Bligh – When her husband goes off to war she looks after his shell shocked father and meets Gilbert when he returns him after he has wandered.
I know that this is perceived by others as ironic and humourous (misspelling deliberate, that was my attempt at ironic distancing, didja see?
She's an angry, angry woman who's out to flagellate a world that doesn't run the way she thinks it should.And by "she" I mean the authorial "she." I don't know Ms. Levy at all and I don't want to particularly, if she's anything like the books she writes.
Scant danger of that, I suppose, since I live on Long Island and she on Small Island.Hated it.
It's too late for most of y'all, but not recommended to the point of saying "run away!
run away!"
This book also shows that people of color in England have to deal with the same level of racism as their counterparts in the United States.
Although they had the right skin color and education, when the first wave of Jamaicans arrived on British shores in the 1940s, they were relegated to second class citizenship as shown in the novel.
It is interesting to note that in the novel much of the racism colonial soldiers have to deal with come from white American GI stationed in England.
Levy's amazing storytelling sucks you in from the beginning and makes you care about the characters, Jamaican immigrants to "the Mother Country" of England right after World War II, and a few English people who show them kindness.
I read a review that called her writing almost "Dickensian" and I can see it.
It doesn't suprise me "Small Island" was made into a "Masterpiece Classic" (next on my Netflix queue!), reading it feels like diving into a particularly satisfying "Masterpiece Theater." Andrea Levy should get way more recognition Stateside!
Small Island is author Andrea Levy’s critically acclaimed debut novel-turned-movie, which is a brilliant story of two couples whose lives are altered as they embark on disparate journeys that land them together in England.
When the dawn of the war intensifies, Bernard enlists in the Royal Air Force to fight for his country.
One of her residents is Gilbert Joseph, the witty and ambitious native of Jamaica and veteran of the Royal Air Force, whose struggle to obtain the life of prosperity thought to exist in England, leads him to endure heartless racial antics.
Prejudice, alive and well in 1948 Britain.In this story we follow Gilbert and Hortense, a Jamaican couple; and Bernard and Queenie a white couple; and a young Jamaican man named Michael Roberts who becomes entwined in the lives of all of them.
So here comes this tall black man bursting with color and warmth; everything about him looked and felt warm and his smile was dazzling.
I thought it was classy.So evidently I was predisposed to like this book and relate well to the characters, even Michael Roberts, even the ludicrous Bernard.
Although quite how a character in Alan Hollinghurst’s new novel gets off on being such a class warrior, God only knows).
And now having perused the final page, I find I’m incredibly glad that I did, as the qualities she exhibited on Radio 4 – wit, warmth, compassion – are all here in abundance.‘Small Island’ concerns two married couples, one set from Jamaica and the other British, and deals with how their lives intersect in post-war London – with flashbacks to what brought them to that corner of Earl’s Court in the first place.
I first encountered Small Island three years ago as a television drama done by the BBC.
So reading Andrea Levy’s fine book now, I had some foreknowledge of the plot – not that my old brain retains everything nowadays, so to some extent it was a reminder and a rediscovery.But the book still had the power to shock and, yes, make me feel angry and ashamed of my supposedly superior race.
I can remember as recently as twenty years ago otherwise decent and kind people being utterly racially prejudiced.
Perhaps the book title was a metaphor for, amongst other things, our small world.All in all a beautiful book.
Hortense, a product of a colonial upbringing where her light skin and education set her above other Jamaicans; Gilbert, a former RAF serviceman returned to England on the Empire Windrush; Queenie, surviving by any means possible on the home front, and then as a woman on her own in post-war London; and Bernard, ignorant and narrow-minded, fighting on in the forgotten war in Burma and in the Indian Mutiny.The characters are well-developed, and Levy is not afraid to make her creations unlike-able.
The story mainly takes place in 1948 UK. It is told from different character's perceptions. Hortense is a Jamaican teacher who aspires to become a "high class teacher in the UK." Gilbert is the Jamaican man she weds to get herself there. Queenie is a beautiful white British woman who takes in boarders when she believes that her husband has died in the war. Bernard is Queenie's bigoted husband, who joins the RAF to avoid the draft and is stationed in India where he ends up fighting...more The st
Bernard is Queenie's bigoted husband, who joins the RAF to avoid the draft and is stationed in India where he ends up fighting...more The story mainly takes place in 1948 UK.
Bernard is Queenie's bigoted husband, who joins the RAF to avoid the draft and is stationed in India where he ends up fighting the Japanese and becoming a POW after WWII ends in an Indian civil war.The characters in the novel are so well-developed and all have such strong and complex personalities.
I loved and hated both Queenie, Hortense, and Gilbert.
Amazing book that goes back and forth between Jamaica and London England in the 40's. Beautiful writing.
This historical novel took me a mighty long time to read, and the delay was not because Small Island was deadly boring or badly written.
I liked this book, but at the same time I have mixed feelings about the characters.
Even though I come away from Small Island with some conflicted feelings, I overall enjoyed it and learned a lot of from this novel about England during WWII, the conditions that black soldiers and airmen existed under fighting for the British Empire, and the plight of the earliest Jamaican immigrants to England.
I'm going to come back to this review at a later time.
Queenie, their British landlady, is decently sketched as well, with her unabashed attitude as she takes in Jamaican (i.e., coloured) renters, shocking her London neighbors.The book tends to lose focus as it weaves toward the fourth narrator, Bernard -- Queenie's boring and sexless husband.
There are many reasons: Bernard is stationed in India, which forcibly removes the reader from the rest of the story, which takes place in England.
And, when Bernard DOES come back home, the story arc becomes predictable and at the same time, melodramatic.
Even if the storyline was a little naive sometimes I have to give this book five starts because it was beautiful and I couldn't put it down.
A trite ending and yet five stars! The review really needs to follow.
