https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178565.Excellent_Women
Nothing short of miraculous, this novel about a wallflower who knows just how shitty men can often treat their counterparts, and how with much ease the ill treatment is endured, is both a classic & a must!
I have never read a more compassionate or sympathetic voice, like that of our heroine's.
Also, the quantity of tea drunk by the players is tantamount to the quantities of cigarettes smoked by an opposite crew of mobsters, ruffians, or killers.
It is verrry hard not to be wholly taken aback by the seamless prose of the excellent Miss Pym!
She's in her early 30s, she's unmarried, people keep telling her about their problems and expecting her to fix them, men think she's in love with them just because she's single, and she prefers living by herself because someone else would just mess everything up.And here's another thing that I noticed: her friends and neighbors would often ask her to do things in a tone that suggested, "Oh, well, since you're single, YOU DON'T HAVE ANYTHING BETTER TO DO, so could you please _______ for me?" That is annoying, and very accurate.I am going to start referring to myself as an Excellent Woman.
Her world, as the book opens, is her local church, its vicar, and its crowd of "excellent women" of the title, who crowd about the church doing "good works"- her greatest excursion is her Wednesday trip to services at another church downtown whose pastor, due to the war, is still undecided, and receives new visiting priests each week.It's a comfortable, predictable life, in which Mildred does a lot of good, and has friends who care for her and a world she understands.
I've read this many times and have both a kindle version and a paperback. Barbara Pym wrote about ordinary women leading ordinary lives. They don't have interesting, exciting jobs or adventures and their personal lives consist of doing flowers for the church or manning a booth at a church fete. This sounds horrible and tedious, but it is exactly the opposite; her books are funny and sweet and excellent, just like her women.
I find I can only take so much emotional stress before I retreat to her closely observed lives full of the quotidian routines of the women who are the backbone of the Anglican Church.
Flower arranging, knitting, polishing church brasses, it is all part of the detail of their quiet lives as loss of love is accepted with resignation, spinsters find a way of "making do" on limited budgets, and the seasons pass marked by jumble sales and church festivals.
Many cups of tea are provided as life's crises are negotiated, with the occasional coffee or medicinal brandy, and one falls asleep knowing there are still quiet pockets of the world filled with excellent women.
Mildred Lathbury – the excellent woman who tells this story was so real, so utterly believable that I am quite prepared to believe that I might have been looking at her back and her hat back in the day.Mildred Lathbury was the daughter of a clergyman, and she had been brought up in a country vicarage, but when she found herself alone in the world she moved to a small flat near the Anglican church that she regularly attended.
The plot of the book describes her very provincial and narrow life, which consists of making tea, eating really sad lunches of lettuce and cheese, and interfering with/getting dragged into other people's lives and helping to sort out their problems.There are a few witty, clever lines in this book, but any pleasure they might have provided is withheld since they almost seem to be delivered unconsciously, as though Mildred could never imagine herself as someone who ever says anything funny.
There's one scene where Mildred is at a church committee meeting and one of the women leading the meeting starts making tea for everyone.

Just what I was looking for! This is charming, witty and introduced me to the wonderfully observant Mildred Lathbury. My first book by Pym, but not my last!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
I fear I may have been a little severe in my assessment of Ms Pym so, as I'm sure her legions of fans will be delighted to hear, I sat myself out on the terrace yesterday afternoon and read this one straight through, cover to cover, in 5 hours.Quartet in Autumn was driech: dull sad people leading sad dull lives.
The vicar (Julian) wonders if he and his wife will attend church, for 'They that go down to the sea in ships: and occupy their business in great waters; These men see the works of the Lord: and His Wonders in the deep,' Julian said, half to himself.I did not like to spoil the beauty of the words by pointing out that Rockingham Napier had spent most of his service arranging the Admiral's social life.
Pym was ahead of her time, without needing to fill the pages inbetween with sex.I also learned some useful life lessons: how to "properly" clean one's kitchen, how to prepare a fine pot of tea, and that meddling (when for altruistic purposes) isn't always wrong."Men are not nearly so helpless and pathetic as we sometimes like to imagine them, and on the whole they run their lives better than we do ours.""Why is it that we can never stop trying to analyse the motives of people who have no personal interest in us, in the vain hope of finding that perhaps they may have just a little after all..."
Mildred me ha conquistado! :D
The book is about a single woman, Mildred Lathbury.
Her days consist of eating - meals and tea - over and over again.
How one can eat a meal and go an hour later to tea and an hour later to the next meal is beyond me.
Setting no limits, doing everything for everybody, she is used by all.
A person must set limits, don't you think?
Ordinary lives are fine as long as they give one a modicum of self-fulfillment, and I do not believe Mildred Lathbury comes near to any such feeling.
The narration is fine.This book annoyed me.
It reminded me of Elizabeth Goudge’s The Scent of Water, though with slightly less religious fervour.
Some of Pym’s characterizations and scenes convinced me that J.K. Rowling has read Barbara Pym (one of Elizabeth Goudge’s books was Rowling’s favourite as a child so I see a link).
I really enjoyed this. It's like Jane Austen but set in the 1950s - very witty, but at times tinged with sadness.
Why didn't any of you shout louder about reading Barbara Pym?
I can't believe I'm nearly 50 and I've only just got round to reading her, because everything was perfect and lovely and wonderful about this book.
Mildred is wonderful.
If you've ever read any Barbara Comyns, it's a bit like her books, but not as surreal.
I shall be going out shortly for tea and some more books by Barbara Pym.www.clairefuller.co.uk
A most excellent book! Full of lots of humor and thoughtfulness--I agree that it's a bit Jane Austen-esque. However, I am not sure that the overall theme is quite so optimistic as Austen's works. I would be very interested to hear from others who have read this book to find out what they think. Did Mildred find a fulfilling life? What was Pym's view of "excellent women"--were they neglected victims or silent heroes? I'm looking forward to reading more of Pym's work. Highly recommended!!!
"Talvez a infelicidade seja melhor do que não sentir nada."As Mulheres Excelentes de Barbara Pym são solteiras, inteligentes, generosas e boas donas de casa; não trabalham, dedicando-se a causas sociais. As não excelentes são casadas, inteligentes, egoístas e umas marotas; têm uma profissão e não perdem tempo a arrumar a casa. Todas são felizes com o seu estado...Gostei e diverti-me muito a ler este romance, que de enredo não é farto. Vale pela escrita, pelo humor e pela personagem principal - a excelente Mildred.
Pym gives us glimpses of human nature with all its flaws, but with such sympathy that we cannot help but love her characters.
The best novels help us to develop our empathy, or what Eliot called "fellow-feeling," toward mankind.
Such books teach us to be as forgiving of the flaws of the characters as we are of our own flaws, and so learn empathy toward real people.
Pym gives us romance with all of its false starts, hesitancies and doubts still intact, yet leaves us feeling happy in the end that all works out for the best.
3,5Me ha gustado pero quizá el hecho de haber tenido tan poco tiempo para leer esta semana ha hecho que no haya disfrutado tanto de la lectura, todo y con eso tengo que destacar que Barbara escribe de maravilla y da gusto leerla.
This was a strange read, it's a lot to do about nothing. It was just a step into the everyday lives of a group of people that are connected by geography. I almost quit reading it several times but curiosity about the characters pulled me back in. A clean cozy with good narration.
Her writing style is deceptively simple, and thoroughly enjoyable.Mildred is an unattached woman of a certain age, and in the society of this time and place, the role of such excellent women seems to be to make themselves available for everyone else.
In the course of her hum-drum life being upset by the appearance of some volatile newcomers to the neighborhood, Mildred begins to question society's expectations.“Perhaps there can be too much making of cups of tea, I thought, as I watched Miss Statham filling the heavy teapot.
‘Doesn’t one look for other qualities in people?’”I enjoyed spending time with Mildred.
She looks at the lives of people she is supposed to want to be like, and tells us what she sees.
4,5 para una novela que me ha encantadoMi primera experiencia con la autora no ha podido ser mejor. Un retrato de personajes y ambientes tan cuidado, ameno y lleno de sutil humor que me ha hecho de su lectura algo maravilloso. Me costaba dejar el libro y era un gustazo ponerme de nuevo con el.Personajes a los que coges cariño (Mildred te conquista), son humanos, con sus cosas buenas y malas.Desde luego estoy deseando leer Amor no correspondido.Muy a tener en cuenta la edición de Gatopardo
Me ha sorprendido mucho este libro, ¿cómo una historia tan cotidiana engancha tanto?. Me he reído con los pensamientos de la protagonista, resulta tan humana!, tiene una gran capacidad crítica, pero está muy atrapada por todos los convencionalismos de la época.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book - my first Barbara Pym. Mildred Lathbury is an "excellent woman" - 30's, single, capable, involved in the church, living alone in post war London.
Are you having a fight with your husband and need someone to write a note to him?
Did you move out of the house and you need someone to meet and manage the moving company?
And of course, an excellent woman MUST be in want of a husband.
While they both write about the quiet domestication of everyday life, Austen ultimately ends with the realization of true love and marriage.
This is my first Barbara Pym book, but it definitely won't be my last! Her gentle humor suffuses the book, and the characters spring to life in just a phrase or two. What seems at first a light, subtle, tongue-in-cheek storyline is actually incredibly insightful and the story stays with you long after you finish reading. The characters could very well be my next door neighbors – each and every one. Amusing, charming, entertaining, endearing, interesting, soft-spoken, no gimmicks – all of which takes great writing! Loved it.
Despite coming from a totally different background himself, the other husband has a penchant for selecting smallish books about people living somewhat in the shadows, frequently with a religious connection, and often British.
And so it is with this novel from 1952 by Barbara Pym. Mildred Lathbury, an unmarried woman in her thirties, lives in an apartment with shared bathroom in an unfashionable part of London.
Over the quite short novel, a lot of moderately dramatic things will happen to people Mildred knows, leaving her to serve as go-between, pick up the pieces, supervise the movers after the occupants have gone, and make those cups of tea.
EXCELLENT WOMEN. (1952). Barbara Pym. *****. While browsing the Penguin Classics list of new publications, I saw several entrys by an author I hadn’t read or even heard of. I’m always willing to take a chance with one of Penguin’s publications in their Classics series. This was one on the list, and I was blown over by my “discovery.” Ms. Pym (1913-1980) was best known for her series of novels about the British middle class. She published her first novel in 1950, followed by five more novels. The
This was one on the list, and I was blown over by my “discovery.” Ms. Pym (1913-1980) was best known for her series of novels about the British middle class.
In this novel, we meet Mildred Lathbury, a clergyman’s daughter and spinster, currently living alone in a second-story flat.
Ms. Lathbury occasionally thinks about marriage, but it is not high on her list.
There is a lot of humor in this novel, primarily because Ms. Lathbury manages to see the many sides of any given situation.
You will love meeting her and will be sad that the novel has to end.
But perhaps Mildred Lathbury is something more than that for though she does live her life vicariously in the service of others Pym allow her to have rather a good time in the process, she is literally wined and dined by all the male protagonists and is in her own way rather emancipated and unpredictable, much more so than the wimpy Winifred or the jolly Dora.
Mildred is an expert in the small business of daily life and like many a bit player is essential to the onward movement of the plot.
What a curious little novel. Gently funny, a little bit sad. I will read more Pym.This is a good article from The New Yorker: Barbara Pym and the New Spinster
