https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75406.The_Breaks_of_the_Game
In additon to the narrative arc, The Breaks of the Game is replete with vivid and memorable characters, from coach Jack Ramsay, whose inability to accept losses affect his mental health and relationships with his friends, to power forward Maurice Lucas, whose physical style of play is vital to the Blazers' success yet who, like an earlier Shawn Marionon the Mike Dantoni-era Phoenix Suns, feels unappreciated, to Billy Ray Bates, the cocky, late- season addition to the squad who helps fuel the Blazers' late-season playoff run.The characters do not just exist on the court.
"The Cuckoo Man was Jack Nicholson, the movie star, a devoted follower of Laker basketball who had a seat right next to the Laker bench.
In the championship season, when Portland had played Los Angeles, Nicholas had thus sat only about three feet away from the last man on the Portland bench who, in this case, happened to be Lloyd Neal, and everything that Nicholson said, every cry praising Kareem or belittling Walton, thundered in the ears of the Portland players.
This book is a masterpiece.
It's the best sports lit/sports history book I've ever read.
Incorporation of the four ABA teams and its players.
Transition to a more "black" sport, or at least a less white sport.
Expansion teams.
Everything was changing and it was a time of rich cultural fermentation in the sport.Also, being a relatively new Oregonian, this book follows the "local" sports team here in Oregon, and currently the only pro hoops team in the Northwest.
In my Oregon indoctrination this book follows the Bill Bauerman book and precedes Kesey's "Sometimes a Great Notion".
As the team's season touches on various characters and issues, Halberstam pauses to explore them.
Great character sketches/bios of most of the great players up until that point, the most interesting discussions I've read of the defining issues of the NBAs early years (race, TV rights, team ownership etc), as well as plenty of basketball content -- team play vs one on one, coaching styles, some great comments into the nature of the game itself, some selective play by play at key moments.
Bill Walton had left the team the previous year, but together with Coach Jack Ramsey he is the central character in the book.
I told my dad I was reading this book because its reputation precedes it as one of the best sports books ever written.
His matter-of-fact answer: "well, that's because Halberstam is one of the best writers ever." 362 pages later, I can't help but agree.
After I finished it, I gave this book to my dad to read, and soon enough found myself reading over his shoulder on an airplane.
And to think that Halberstam's sportswriting was his hobby, done for fun years after he had already won his Pulitzer?
Halberstam is A) a flat out great writer B) a compassionate progressive soul C) smart as heck D) an amazingly astute observer of life and people.Writing about the Portland Trailblazers circa 1980, he delves into the Blazers' players, management, and ownership.
You get a true feel where people are from, their mentalities and why they are doing what they are doing, the inner politics of the league, the grinding crushing nature of the season, and also a hard look at how unrelentingly cold and brutal the NBA is as a business.
What's amazing is that you don't feel Halberstam is kowtowing to anybody, he isn't writing nice things so he can keep and maintain access to stars and NBA insiders.
Great book.
As a life-long Blazer fan, I started the book with the hopes of understanding the roots of my hometown team.
Halberstam's coverage of racial, social, and economic actions and consequences is direct and objective and provides far more of a historical read than I had expected.
As it relates to my beloved team, Halberstam balances a presentation of facts from each player and the organization at large with his own commentary and observations that only a non-Portlander could provide objectively.
Basketball and Blazers fans alike will find this well-worth their time.
He does a great job of giving a sense of his subjects in just a few pages.
I was surprised how dated the book seemed; the NBA of the late 70s was all black/white, and Halberstam is constantly reviewing the racial dynamics involved in the league and among the Blazers.
The desires for an earlier time in pro-sports when fans were unaware of the role of agents, contracts, and players unions seemed quaint.
Maybe I'm not a big enough fan to have loved this book.
I had trouble getting through the first 100 pages, but enjoyed the rest.
We’re all going to watch the games and then find some random book to talk about it on.((Hell, more I watch the WNBA, the more I realize its where it’s at)) K?
When you get down to it, basketball, like politics, is all about aesthetics.) Great book.
The Blazers are so good, they have the best sports book written about them.
The same goddamn thing happened with Portis.
Might I be able to turn this automatic obedience of snip-sized information into incredulous curiosity?” There’s a documentary on the 76-77 season on Youtube I wish I had watched while I was reading this.
He follows the Portland Trailblazers through the 79-80 season, talking extensively with coaches, players, etc.
Tells a pretty compelling story.
Remember that this is when Magic and Bird are just coming into the league, and noone was sure whether/how long the NBA would survive.
Long, interesting story of the history of the TV contract.
He feels screwed when he feels the league unfairly moves to CBS.
The only thing that prevents it from being really great is that I'm not quite familiar enough with all the characters (and there's really dozens) because I wasn't following the league that much then.

Absolutely fantastic! One of, if not the best, sports books - no, books I’ve read. I’ve known of it for a long time and have enjoyed other Halberstam books, but I put this one off under the misperception that it was solely a book about one team’s season a long time ago. It’s so much more. The 79-80 Blazers are merely the lens through which Halberstam examines a league in transition, the sociology of basketball, the relationship between sports and media, and so much more. I can’t recommend this enough for anyone who enjoys sport and reading about it.
Amazing how topical a book can be 35 years after it was written. I happened to be reading this when Jack Ramsey passed. I love the way Halberstam writes, telling the main story, but leaving on tangents to give you mini biographies on all the bit players involved in the story, and then returning to the main story. One of these days, I will have to read one of his non-sports books (The Fifties, The Best and the Brightest, etc.).
an essential basketball readPerhaps the most interesting thing about this book is that by looking at a regional team, at an odd juncture in the history of the NBA, it nonetheless manages to encompass the whole of the sport and its relevance in America. Absolutely essential.
Pretty interesting view into the NBA of the late 70's from David Halberstam.
Although this is a review of David Halberstam’s ‘The Breaks of the Game,” I’ve included a lot of material about Halberstam and his works in general, somewhat unorthodox in the world of reviewing So let’s get right to the actual review first, and you can then shut down if you don’t want to know anything else about his iconic writing.This is a review of his second basketball book, “The Breaks of the Game,” in which he recounts his stay with the 1979-80 Portland Trailblazers and superstar Bill Walton.
This is one of the most famous books about basketball ever written.
But the real beauty of the book is not the drama of the Portland team but the changing nature of the NBA in general.
He cannot see that Magic and Bird will change the league and make it both popular and profitable.
At the very end of the book, the owner of the San Diego Clippers decides to sell the team because, with Bill Walton injured he cannot make any money.
This is the last Halberstam book I will read.
He has long been one of my favorite authors.
It's not just about the game of basketball, it's about all the people who make it happen -- players, coaches, wives, agents, reporters, owners, TV execs, etc.
All of these stories come together to create a complete picture of what makes a professional basketball team really tick.
Having recently read Terry Pluto's Loose Balls, about the American Basketball Association, this book felt like a natural progression.
And it's often a tough world for the players; a cutthroat (and frequently politicized) profession, in which a player is very likely to end up on a different team in a different city before the season ends.
An expansive book ostensibly chronicling the 1979-1980 season of the Portland Trail Blazers, Halberstam (seemingly) captures the poetry of NBA basketball at the time.
Where this book is particularly illuminating to me is its dissection of race and class in the NBA up to 1980.
You can’t help but empathize with guys like Kermit Washington or even Maurice Lucas.
And that I think is the best part of the book: it forces the reader to see the athletes, from the benchwarmers to the stars, as human beings with emotions, moods, and problems like anyone else.
In Breaks of the Game, David Halberstam explores the 1979-80 Blazers.
In telling the story of their season, he provides backstory on everyone from the President on down to the janitor.
I only give this 4 stars because at times the backstories could overtake the present intrigue.
But what also elevates this story to 4 stars is the fact that it is the most thorough examination of the circus of modern sports that I have read.
I caused me to marvel as well, and reflect on the joy, frustration, and weirdness that is sport.
I won this book fair and square from Goodreads Giveaways.
Thank you Mitch.
This is the greatest basketball book ever!
Note to Goodreads Giveaways: I have mentioned the contest in my review.
Please keep this in mind when choosing the winner of the "Psycho Path Test" by Ron Jonson contest of which I am also participating.
I will mention you again when I review that book.
As a matter of fact, if you want to go through my "want to read" list and have me win those I will mention you in each and every review.
Read this back when I was passionate about basketball and sports in general - another time. My rating is for the way I felt about the book back then. If I rated it today, things would probably be different. As a matter of fact, I'm sure I wouldn't bother reading the book today.
Halberstam uses a season with the Portland Trailblazers, a team in turmoil but still bearing a championship pedigree from just a few years before to examine every aspect of NBA life he can glean: contracts & money, the battles for jobs, the challenges of coaching & playing in the league over a long season, the strains it puts on people's personal life, dealing with injuries (and incidentally showing just how poor sports medicine was back then in comparison to today), the status of the league, and most critically the role and perceptions of race in the league.It's rather remarkable, just how deep Halberstam goes, driving well inside the psyche of most of the Trailblazer's roster and getting some impressively honest thoughts and statements from players and coaches about what they actually thought about the team and their place on it, the league and their place in it, as well as just broader thoughts about the world, especially when it comes to race.
The Breaks of the Game is a nice blend of sports-cultural history (i.e. its growth in the late 20th century owing to its relationship with TV and advertising) with mini-biographies of a range of interesting characters as they interact over the course of a year (though pretty much all men, obviously).
But the book did help humanize my imagination of professional athletes' lives, which tend to be one-dimensional or caricature-like, or aggrandized through the media or their own autobiographies.The Breaks of the Game didn't blow my mind, but I'd recommend it to any sports buff who hasn't already read it.
As life in the professional leagues adjusted to post-ABA life, with more money (but the same old gross hotels) and more games (but the same old broken knees), the Trailblazers were there to cling to the last remnants of their championship team.
This is a book about how champions die, about how our bodies betray us, of how the growing salaries of young black players caused resentment from old white veterans and coaches - among all of the other dumb resentment they held via 70s race relations - and, finally, somewhere at the end, how the game was ready to explode into the spectacle it is today.
Post-drugs (but pre-Jordan), The Breaks of the Game reminds us that people are fragile.
Quite a ride with Portland, but this book was so much more than Blazer basketball, looking at the turbulent NBA in totality back in the late 70s.
The look inside the players, families, coaches, executives, spouses, agents, sports media, TV deals, racism, drugs, and physical health kept me engaged throughout the story.
By living and traveling with the team, it was obvious Halberstam was able to provide the reader with information and journalistic perspective no other writer could.
Many of the story's multitude of characters still have relevancy in today's NBA so this book has held up quite nicely all these years later.
And this book delivered that in pieces, although it also splintered into asides on Kareem, Dr. J, TV network executives, etc.
It was wordy and all over the place, and many of the Blazer moments in the book seemed like a second-hand account of a situation rather than first-hand observations.
It was until I was past page 300 when I got engaged into some accounts of Billy Ray Bates coming to the team.
Still interesting to read about some of the Blazers from my childhood, but the book didn't deliver nearly what I had hoped for.
The book centers around the Portland Trail Blazers and their season 2 years after winning the NBA championship, but it turns into a richly detailed account of the life and times of the NBA.
I'm not a big NBA fan, but I remember a lot of the names and incidents in this book, and once I got past the first 50 or so pages, I couldn't put it down.
When I began reading it, I thought that centering on the Blazers would fatally date this book; I couldn't have been more wrong.Halberstam was one of the greatest writers of his generation, and the span of subjects he covered was breathtaking.
It's incredible how much access Halberstam had to the Trail Blazers' organization, and with how much candor he was allowed to write and publish.
He writes of private discussions and negative conversations about specific players.
One cannot imagine a similar situation occurring in today's NBA.
It's also a good insight into the long journey of an NBA season, interminable with many conflicts (petty and real) along the way.
Lots of recognizable names 40 years later (Mo Lucas, Bill Walton, Lionel Hollins, Kermit Washington), and lots of obscure names of NBA past.
Not the easiest read, as it's a bit long, but it's really impressive nonetheless.
I liked it, it's a great look at the state of the NBA circa 1979, but it's not quite as good as it's reputation - I read it because Bill Simmons calls it the best sports book ever written.
I think it's aged - it's meandering (it's basically one single chapter with a brief prologue and epilogue) and that lends itself to redundancy.
The details are pretty interesting but more recent books have been better.
It really touched every single aspect of the game at that time.
