https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77627.Too_Many_Cooks
A fine Nero Wolfe, in which the great detective is invited to the annual meeting of a society of the greatest chefs of the world where--of course--a murder occurs. One unfortunate flaw: this novel was published in 1938, and its treatment of the black characters--all servants of course--contains stereotypes that will seem racist to most 21st century readers.Still, Nero Wolfe himself treats them with dignity and even courtesy, and his attitude goes a long way toward redeeming the book.
I have a confession to make: after finishing the book I added yet another item to my ever-growing list of things-to-do-before-I-die.
In this case I really want to try saucisse minuit:Some explanation is in order; I also would like to apologize to the people already familiar with Nero Wolfe as they are already know everything I will say here.
He would not let anything, even a murder to get between him and the recipe; considering that he weights one seventh of a ton he can use his sheer momentum to remove all obstacles.Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to know what saucisse minuit tastes like.
(Three guesses who gets murdered.) Luckily, when Laszio is found dead with knife in his back, it just so happens that Nero Wolfe is also at the gathering, and somewhat reluctantly decides to find the killer.
There's a Chinese character, who everyone says will be suspected by the police because she's Chinese; Archie throws around some slurs to describe the European chefs; and by the time I got through with this book the n-word barely even phased me anymore.
The characters in this book are hella racist, which I guess is historically accurate, but here's the good news: all the good character (Wolfe, Archie) are at least aware of their own prejudices and try to overcome them.
E quindi, è possibile anche pensare ad un romanzo di genere come ad un classico, sotto certe condizioni: la scelta dei curatori della collana Oscar Classici Moderni di inserire Rexs Stout e Nero Wolfe ha questo significato, e mi ha fatto ovviamente molto piacere.Il grande bon vivant tanto antipatico quanto geniale è stato mio assiduo compagno di letture nelle estati solitarie della mia infanzia, che passavo in montagna nei periodi di (doveroso) riposo assoluto della mia famiglia; era normale che mi lasciasse un affettuoso ricordo.Reincontrarlo dopo quasi trent'anni mi ha fatto un certo effetto.
😥Mi è piaciuta molto la voce narrante di Archie Goodwin, sarcastica e divertente al tempo stesso, che prende continuamente in giro Wolfe, e facendo questo dimostra di volergli bene.Per quanto riguarda la trama, devo dire che avevo adocchiato il colpevole già da un po’.
Ciononostante, mi sono divertita a vedere i movimenti cervellotici di Wolfe e del suo segretario.
Vedremo.Libro letto con il titolo di Alta cucina, scelto per il gruppo di lettura del mese di ottobre 2018, parola: cucina.
Archie himself refers to "dagoes" and "shines" as the story progresses, racial characterizations that may have seemed witty in the past but certainly would not pass muster today.Nevertheless the approach Wolfe takes when he needs a witness from among the waiters and cooks is man-to-man and turns into quite a discourse on mutual respect.
3.5*Nero Wolfe leaves his brownstone in NYC to attend a gastronomical gathering as the guest of honor. During the event, one of the chefs is murdered and Wolfe gets chivvied into investigating.
You know, I don't really care all that much about the mystery part of any Nero Wolfe mystery.
I don't care cause a couple hundred pages of Archie and Nero going back and forth is always, always worth it.
Archie with his easy going wise-guy banter and Nero with his prickly erudite blustering, fussing over his orchids, salivating over his supper, sipping his beer, closing his eyes, twitching his lips.
well that's just some icing on an already good cake.And, on this particular cake?
I gotta say, the icing tasted pretty damn good.
Wolfe speechifying saves the day! I always enjoy Wolfe being forced to leave the house, and this is a good one.
That said, it is clear that Rex Stout is trying to highlight the stupidity of prejudice and racial intolerance through the conduct of Wolfe and Archie when compared with some of the local law enforcement officers.If I could give it 3.5 I would.
Archie Goodwin and Nero Wolfe continue to needle each other with an affection that neither would admit to if pressed.
There are two issues worth mentioning.First, there are a *lot* of characters.
There are also characters who are neither cooks nor guests and who also are not employees of Nero Wolfe.
Nero Wolfe is such an eccentric that it is well known he does not leave his house except perhaps once a year to attend the orchid show.
Did the earth move on its axis?My top rating for this genre is 4-stars, and that only for a truly exemplary mystery.
AMAZING. Laughed out loud multiple times. Highly recommend this to any mystery fans- the best Nero Wolfe book of the series so far!
TOO MANY COOKS. (1938). Rex Stout. ****. This is one of the better Nero Wolfe mysteries by this author, although it does have its faults. First off, as is typical of many of the Wolfe mysteries, there are too many suspects – all busy strewing red herrings about at the crime scene. Secondly, there is the almost supernatural way in which Wolfe manages to focus on the one clue that the reader has missed that ultimately leads to the solution. The story goes: Wolfe is, obvously, a gourmand. He manage
First off, as is typical of many of the Wolfe mysteries, there are too many suspects – all busy strewing red herrings about at the crime scene.
Marko has invited Wolfe, and Archie Goodwin, to accompany him on a trip to an exclusive resort in West Virginia where a group of chefs will assemble and cook their signature meals.
Wolfe, however, after being reluctantly dragged into the situation, manages to get to the bottom of the killing in quick time – allowing of course for the antics of Archie and his fascination with young women.
Yksityisetsivä Nero Wolfe on ärtyisällä päällä joutuessaan junamatkalle Kanawha Spahan, Länsi-Virginiaan.
Tällä kertaa voiton vie kuitenkin huippukokkien maailmankonferenssi, jonne Nero Wolfe matkustaa apulaisensa Archie Goodwinin kanssa.
Maistelukilpailu päättyy kuitenkin siihen, että kilpailun tuomari saa puukon selkäänsä.
Odottamattomista vastoinkäymisistä entistä ärtyisämmäksi muuttunut Nero Wolfe haluaa selvittää tapauksen nopeasti, jotta lähtö paluumatkalle ei viivästyisi yhtään enempää, kuin on välttämätöntä.Liian monta kokkia on Rex Stoutin varhaisimpia Nero Wolfe -dekkareita eikä yllä kirjailijan parhaan tuotannon joukkoon.
Samantyyppisiä henkilöitä (kokkeja) on aivan liian paljon, joten lukijan on hankalaa pysyä kärryillä, kuka kukin on.
Myöskän juoni ei yllä sille tasolle, jota kirjailijalta on lupa odottaa.
As a big Nero Wolfe fan, I expected to find this one a very enjoyable read.
I read a lot of older stuff, and I am accustomed to overlooking certain racist and sexist language we find appalling today.
But this book is so full of objectionable words that it really takes away from the reading experience.
I just cringed when I read the casual references to coons and shines, not to mention the frequency of the N word.
It is fractionally redeemed by a scene with Nero Wolfe speaking to some black male staff at a resort in a very forthright and untypical manner.So, if you love Nero, read ahead.
La gara purtroppo è funestata dal misterioso omicidio di uno dei 15, ma Nero ci mette una pezza, pur di tornare a casa prima possibile.Ho trovato divertenti i rapporti tra principale e dipendente, narrati dal “segretario” Archie che si rivela comunque molto legato al “capo” Nero Wolfe.Ho apprezzato anche le descrizioni culinarie molto accurate e l’ottima resa dell’atmosfera di competizione e rivalità incombente (merito anche dalla traduzione).Una lettura gradevole insomma che però non mi ha mai coinvolto come mi sarei aspettato, facendomi comunque venir voglia di leggere qualche altro episodio, magari iniziando la serie.Aggiungo di non aver trovato alcuna vena di razzismo in questo racconto, anzi Stout mi è parso chiaramente schierato contro il razzismo: basti vedere la fine gentilezza con cui Nero Wolfe interroga il personale di colore dell’hotel riuscendo ad ottenere quelle informazioni che lo sceriffo, bianco, con il suo atteggiamento di superiorità tipico dell’epoca e della Virginia, non era riuscito ad ottenere.L'accordo ideale tra gli uomini è quello in cui le differenze di razza, colore o religione sono completamente ignorate.
Another great read from Rex Stout. Nero is so far out of his normal orbit, but there is good food, so we know why he went. I remember being a little shocked when I first read this almost 50 years ago and I can't help wondering what today's snowflakes would think about it. They might want to ban it, but it's good to remember the attitudes that were common in the 30's and 40's and hope we do better today.
I simply love Nero Wolfe. This is one of the rare occasions where the great detective steps out of his comfort zone, and he's just as fantastic as ever.
This one started off really slowly, and though I guess part of its intent was to portray Wolfe as a man above petty racism, some of the language and attitudes in this one bothered me (even granting it was set in 1937). It did leave me with a smile on my face in the end.
When someone builds a story around a specialized topic, the story frequently comes across as boring and filled with tedious information dumps.Stout does a great job of avoiding those traps and telling a story centered on the specialized world of gourmet cooking while making it all seem exciting and powerful.
137)The tag line on my edition of Rex Stout's Too Many Cooks (1938) says: Nero Wolfe steps out to dine with a dozen cooks and a killer.
He's on holiday and the whole point of his holiday is to eat meals prepared by the world's greatest chefs, to deliver a speech, and, if possible, to persuade one of the masters to divulge his recipe for saucisse minuit (a fancy sausage dish).
As Archie Goodwin says about Jerome Berin (the sausage man) and his colleagues, "These babies are famous.
To his credit, Stout has Nero Wolfe deal with the black employees in a quite even-handed manner.
Rex Stout's "Too Many Cooks" is my fourth recent reread of a book in the Nero Wolfe series about the fat genius of detection and his extremely able and worldly assistant, Archie Goodwin.
The plot is competent, nothing more than that.The action takes place in 1937 (Mr. Stout published the book in 1938), and what is absolutely revealing is the portrayal of how black people - the cooks, waiters, kitchen helpers - were treated in the Southern state of West Virginia at that time.
Rex Stout and his Nero Wolfe are certainly amongst those.Here, Wolfe travels to a meeting of the "quinze maîtres", the 15 best cooks in the world, to save the honour of the American cuisine.
If he wants to catch his train in time he will have to solve this mystery - and fast.This is Stout at his very best.
It might be that I'm partial to the setting (high-level chefs preparing excellent meals), but I enjoyed this book immensely.A single warning: the book was written in '38 and while Wolfe adopts a very modern outlook for his time, the general attitude towards blacks displayed by all other characters is still rather patronizing.Summary: Good characters, beautiful setting and a recommendation by Dame Christie herself.
Rex Stout's style reminds me of Raymond Chandler in the language and vocabulary.
Of course, Chandler and Stout have created two different types of detectives, and I enjoy each writer's creation.
Chandler writes of California, while Stout's Nero Wolfe operates from New York.
I enjoyed learning about haute cuisine and Archie Goodwin's every man approach to the festivities.
Archie Goodwin relates the proceedings in a manner of the journal of Doctor Watson explaining the cases of Sherlock Holmes.
The comparison between Holmes and Wolfe jumps to mind, as both men are extremely intelligent and observant.
Sir Conan Doyle invents a better story.
This is one of the earlier books of Rex Stout and I didn't really enjoy it much. It seemed wordier than his later books. There were a lot of cooks (too many cooks), all with foreign names and it was difficult to keep them straight. The book was first published in 1938, but there was little indication of the Great Depression. However, there was a good use of the 'n' word when talking about the black characters. So I wasn't impressed. I gave the book 3 stars because a bad Nero Wolfe mystery is better than most.
Uno dei pochi libri in cui Nero Wolfe è costretto ad lasciare la sua comoda casa e come sempre riesce a cavarsela benissimo, anche grazie all'aiuto del suo divertente assistente Archie, il mio preferito. :DUn giallo molto simile a quelli della ma preferita Agatha Chrstie. Scritto alla fine degli anni trenta, possiamo notare come ci siano ancora degli atteggiamenti razzisti nei confronti dei neri.
This is the first book of Nero Wolfe that captured everything I love about the books. The characters are exciting, there is plenty of talk of food and words, the case was interesting, and the dialog was delicious.
Kennt ihr Rex Stout? Ich kannte ihn zumindest nicht und das obwohl ich wirklich gerne Krimis lese. Wie konnte das sein? Ich weiß es nicht, aber ich bin froh ihn noch entdeckt zu haben, denn ich würde fast sagen er spielt in der selben Liga wie Agatha Christies Miss Marple. Dies war mein erstes Buch aus der Reihe und das obwohl es nicht einmal der erste Teil der Serie ist. Der Klett-Cotta Verlag hat sich dazu entschieden, diese Serie in die Neuzeit einzuführen, aber eben nicht nach Reihenfolge. B
Bisher wurden die Besten ausgesucht, wobei ich hoffe das es noch ein paar in den Druck schaffen.Dazu aber jetzt mehr.Willkommen in der Welt von Nero Wolfe.Genau wie ich, werden wohl einige das Buch beginnen, ohne den ersten Teil gelesen zu haben.
Trotzdem kann ich dieses Buch ganz gut als Erstlektüre empfehlen, da man zum einen Nero Wolfe und seinen Assistent Archie Goodwin sehr gut kennen lernt und man zum anderen fast nur mit Personen vertraut gemacht wird, die nur in diesem Fall eine Rolle spielen.
Da man aber merkt wie abhängig Nero von Archie ist, wird dies wohl sobald nicht eintreten.Die Köche um welche es im Buch geht, sind schon ein bunter Haufen.
Nero Wolfe leaves the brownstone….he takes a TRAIN…and then of course has to solve a murder far from home.The best part of every Nero Wolfe story is the relationship between the eccentric detective and his mouthy right-hand-man, Archie Goodman.
They were just there, which isn’t normal for a Rex Stout story.I must also warn people the book was written in the 1960s and is set in South Carolina, so of course there are conversations concerning racial tensions.
A solid Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin never fails to make me smile!Let me know which Nero Wolfe story is your favorite.
Até o machismo e misoginia de Nero Wolfe (e outros personagens masculinos) contra as mulheres está muito presente, e várias vezes eu tive vontade de entrar na história e dar uns tapas naqueles homens idiotas.Mas, apesar desses fatos serem irritantes para quem lê, eles fazem parte da atmosfera e do modo de vida da época, então dá para encarar de uma forma histórica e educativa.
Eu demorei até a metade para me sentir mergulhada na história e o livro, apesar de curtinho, se arrastou um pouco, mas do meio para o fim ele deslanchou muito bem.
