https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1187815.Peoplewatching
I don't know about that.
But I would say it is damn interesting.In this book, Dr. Morris gives us tips on interpreting human behaviour - and I can tell you from experience that's it's a rewarding hobby.
Another chapter of interest was on the interpretation of a couple's stage in the pair-bonding process based on the physical intimacy they displayed in public.This book has plenty of photographs and is a worthy addition to any library.
I don't know whether it's still in print - if it is, I would advise all and sundry to grab a copy post-haste.
What makes this massive 490 paged mammoth collection of data so amazing is the detail to which the author has gone to deliver his goods – the diagrams, the photographs, the examples, the explanation, the content, the etymology of the expression and its derivatives, the cultural differences to every single gesture, posture or non-verbal communication and yes the reasons behind the reason.
Everything from Resting Behavior, Body Adornments, Pupil Signals, Territorial Behavior, Non-Verbal Leakage, Contradictory signals, Salutation Displays, Sporting Behavior, Signals of Threat, Barriers and Salutation – Desmond Morris has shown through this book how much we think we know to the infinite possibilities of how we truly do not.
Peoplewatching is a good introduction to the study of human behaviour. Desmond Morris writes as a zoologist studying a species he happens to be particularly fond of. He avoids complex arguments and instead outlines the theories which trace the geneses of modern behaviours. I gave this book two stars because I didn't gain any practical or usable knowledge from it. Morris does openly state in his introduction that this book is best suited to those who wish merely to observe- and not to manipulate- human behaviour.
This didn't detract from my enjoyment of this, however, it was an interesting and insightful study of human beaviour and a good anthropology/sociology 'primer' in this area.Desmond Morris discusses numerous examples of human behaviour, focussing particularly on gestures and body language, and makes interesting contrast/comparison between different ages and cultures to pick out aspects of 'universal' human behaviour as well as those more culturally determined.
I was also left with the sense that it had dated slightly from when it was written in the late 1970s - which added a curious sense of doubt to some of Morris's claims of universal and lasting behaviours now proven to be less important (and the absence of things which he did not predict).
Is it because we are an advanced amazing species (perhaps), or because we are acting on animal like instincts?If you like to sit and watch people walk by in crowded places (who doesn't?!) this is that sort of interesting book.
something else I was going to write there until my husband interrupted me and I lost my train of thought.Anyways, all of his books are awesome.
I'm folding my arms because the person I'm sitting next to is folding his, JUST LIKE HE SAID PEOPLE DO IN THE BOOK, and I have never noticed before that I do that!!" It's freaky and awesome.
Life changing!
In short, the book is about the "Body Language." In a clear, lucid way, the author describes a whole range of our day-to day actions, gestures, movements, signs & signals-- most of which we perform sub-consciously.
Now whenever I meet a person, my attention gets focused on firmness and duration of the shake-hand, the way he is folding his hands, distance between his legs, body tension, inclination of his head, the number of times he scratches his head or touches his nose, whether he gives a hearty laughter or a political smile, and such bizarre details.
Really interesting book, read staggered and intermittently and can read chapters out of sync when fully engaged to gain valuable knowledge of universal human body language. So many things in this book I never would have realized until the writer describes i.e. the mannerisms, group dynamics, nationalities, age, relationships, non verbal interactions, how people lie and their tells and everything else imaginable in body language. Have gone back to this book repeatedly over the last few years and still picking up information that I missed last time around. One to keep for sure.
Recommended to me by my friend Rich, I hope this book will give me better insight into reading cues on people's movements and enhancing my knowledge on non verbal communication. I'm going to put it on my deaf studies shelf with the books I've read while aspiring to my dream and my career. Body language is one of the most important aspects of communication with the Deaf. So thanks Rich for the recommendation!
This felt very much like a TV series tie-in (which I assume it was) and wasn't necessarily particularly 'in depth', but Morris did make this a very approachable introduction to sociology - talking about cultural differences, gender differences, and a variety of other areas in the context of subtle signals and gestures etc. that we all do subconsciously as social animals. Interesting stuff, but only a primer to the subject.
One of my favourite books on the behaviour of the human animal. The best section for me was the chapter on religion, which explained to my 13 year old mind (the first time I read the book) why man invented religion. I borrowed the original version from the library, and purchased this version a few years later.
Exhaustive study of human body language. Who knew there were so many gestures in common between distant cultures. A super interesting and informative read. I will have to re-read sometime again.
What caught my attention is that this book is exactly what the title is about.Peoplewatching is a book for those of us who find themselves surprised that we can somehow “read the air” of a room, those who know when someone is lying, or just those of us who are interested in finding out why there are so many displays of human body language.I didn’t rate the book out of my enjoyment of it, rather the information I pulled.
That being said, the book itself is a novel of information that details most of what we can understand about human body language.
I wish I had access to this book when I was much younger.
This book is vital for people living in this present day (2018).
If we look past the demonized ideology of the opposite tribe, we can see that there are also shared layers of urges, insecurities and hangups burned into permanence by events either in their lifetime or throughout the development of our species or of terrestrial life itself.
The book was a bit dry at some points and the good selection of photos helped to push me forward.

A lot of explaining of not only our body language, but of everything human of behavior ...from why men shave, why we don't want to sit in the middle of a restaurant eating blue food. Some seem to be hypothetical guessing, but much is interesting.
Comprehensive and interesting, but a bit too clinical, and less entertaining than his other books
Gud book, helped me professionally....
An interesting survey, but not much useful on interpreting body language or facial expression.
..Fermatevi un istante e concentrate la vostra energia nel pugno, poi lentamente, dischiudete le dita e riaprite la mano… Fate questo esercizio mettendoci tutta la vostra consapevolezza, e vedrete che a poco a poco raggiungerete un grande controllo dei vostri gesti.
Basta che facciate questo esercizio una sola volta, non diverrete più forti facendolo venti volte di seguito, ma fatelo ogni giorno, e come si deve.—“Control of our gestures starts with awareness.
Stopfor a moment and concentrate your energy in your fist, thenslowly unfold your fingers and open your hand…Put all your awareness into this exercise; you will see that youwill gradually achieve great mastery over your gestures.
This book takes a different flight altogether about the way we unknowingly express our inner self while interacting.
The way Mr. Morris explained and "Trained" the readers to "read" body languages of human being is very good.
One word of caution: after reading this book you may find that you are able to decipher a lot of unconscious gestures of human while they are talking with you and you may become judgmental based on the assumptions you make.
Please make it sure that Human are not only the gestures they make, because most of the time it is not even known to them.
o livro começa devagar, falando de muitas coisas que eu já tinha observado nas pessoas, e aí vai se aprofundando, se aprofundando, e falando de hábitos, movimentos, gestos, e outros sinais emitidos pela gente -- é muito legal! o livro é gostoso de ler, e pra quem curte observar as pessoas (como sempre fiz no metrô, nas ruas, nos shoppings, etc), é um prato cheio! pra falar a verdade, o livro acabou e fiquei com vontade de ler mais!
Most of the information provided in this book is basic knowledge of the human gestures and body language. The author explains how some gestures have different meanings based on location and provides the history behind some of them.I wouldn't say that I had any big revelation reading this book or that I learned a lot of new things about human body language, but it was an interesting read anyways.
Before the motivational speaker with his and her pretence of knowing body language, before Joe Braysich, before Allan Pease, (before me!) there was the scientist and ever so clever Desmond Morris, anthropologist, biologist, zoo-ologist, writer and artist.You have to take your hat off to someone who dedicated his time and studies to helping us get on with each other, understand each other and to stop looking and acting like apes.
What a fascinating book! Morris is such an engaging writer about people and their behaviour and this made this book a pleasure to read from cover to cover. Morris looks at a range of human behaviours and explains their emergence and common usage. This book is a must read for anyone who has an interest in understanding why we do what we do.
Although not for the faint hearted, this book is an eye-opener, even today. Morris is an incredibly observant anthropologist, and I found the occasional dally into the chapters extremely interesting. It would be fabulous as a less detailed coffee-table book interspersed with more pictures as examples.
Interesting although no mind blowing facts here, unfortunately you won't be able to decode peoples' inner most thoughts from reading this book. It was a bit boring in places but it's nice to obtain some new information, although you truthfully you can probably successfully read a lot of peoples' body language as it is.
So interesting! Found it hard to put down and I've even started to apply some of its methods to my people watching. Would definitely recommend this book as you will learn a great deal about human behaviour.
I can't tell you how many times I re-shelved this book while employed as a Page at SPL. I finally got around to seeing what all the fuss was about. This book is great, even if you don't have time to read it, it's fun to look at all the pics.
i want to read itt!
