https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23589432-honeysuckle-cottage
Only Wodehouse can exorcise the spookiness factor from a haunted house tale like he has done in this short and fast paced piece of delight.The protagonist of the story is Mr. James Rodman, an author of breathtaking mystery stories, which are rife with cold-blooded characters and action packed plots.
3.5 one can tell by the author's name that this will not be your typical ghost story and it was not. When James inherits Honeysuckle Cottage fro his aunt, a revered author of romances, he is surprised. A confirmed bachelor, writing hard boiled crime fiction he considered his aunt's work, pure drivel. Yet, all who enter this cottage find themselves changed in very humorous ways. Even James who can often see ahead to the change finds himself powerless to resist. Humorous, just love Woodhouse. Wonderful for those who do not like horror, but want to read a ghost story.
OK, the whole love-and-marriage as the dreaded ball'n'chain for bachelors is a bit passe, as a joke. However, this is still wonderfully written, and yeah, quite funny. A successful romance novelist passes away - and her will requires that her nephew move into her charming cottage. The nephew is also a writer - but one who churns out ultra-masculine mystery-thrillers, and has nothing but disdain for his aunt's body of work. However, her house may have an insidious effect on his perspective - and his writing.
You can guarantee that, if Wodehouse gets an idea he will turn it on its head and with the ghost story he does just that. William the dog is an absolute gem.Now without spoiling the plot which is very hard to do this time around, Rodman is a writer who inherits a cottage. Go read it and enjoy a scare.... ;D
Hahaha... What a story! This is my second time of reading it but if it's possible, I enjoyed it even more this time. :D
I liked it immensely not only because i am an unabashed fan of Wodehouse but also coz i dont like romance much. The hero is james who inherit his aunt cottege. His aunt was a very popular romantic writer whereas James is a thriller writer who hates romance and dont include any female character in his novels. So james in a way echoed my thoughts though he is an exterme. Very likeable. And its not a book. Its a short story in Mr mulliner series. So u wil find it there only
By the essence of romance author, Leila Pinckney.
When her hard-boiled no-nonsense detective novelist nephew inherits the cottage, she gives him sappy romance cliché fits!
They never saw eye to eye genre-wise, you know.
All y'all bookworms need to read this short story.
If you're a genre reader, you'll get a kick out of it.
Especially if you've ever read Dame Barbara Cartland (or similar) romances and/or detective/mystery novels.
(I've read both because I'm eclectic that way...
yay, me!) But if you are firmly entrenched in one genre camp, it's still good for a giggle.
And if you are genre shunning book snob?
Previously read this in one of the Mr Mulliner collections. Wodehouse's humorously subversive take on goopy love stories and hard-headed crime novelists is just the right size for a treatment of this sort.
This was my first introduction to Wodehouse and I absolutely loved it!
A short story, it manages to encapsulate the mood of the piece spectacularly, and the whole story was incredibly easy to visualize when reading.
The concept of a house being haunted by an author's influence was both intriguing and hilarious.
One can't help feeling that Wodehouse's purpose for this story is to mock popular society and the popular trashy love stories which the main character so detests - which makes it even funnier when he unwillingly gets drawn into a love story of such tripe, and fights exhaustively to relieve himself of this fiction-turned-reality.
Absolutely fantastic!
I look forward to reading more Wodehouse..
The fears of a resolute bachelor. The terror of romance and lace tablecloths! Hilarious and bonechilling
"I've been feeling that you are exactly like one of Miss Pinckney's heroes.""No, I say, really!" said James, revolted."Oh, but you are! When you jumped through the window it gave me quite a start. You were so exactly like Claude Masterson in 'Heather o' the Hills'.""I have not read 'Heather o' the Hills'," said James, with a shudder."He was very strong and quiet, with deep, dark, sad eyes."James did not explain that his eyes were sad because her society gave him a pain the neck..Good old Wodehouse. Don't read this in public because you'll probably laugh aloud.
Honeysuckle Cottage is the funniest ghost story I have ever had the delight of reading! Saying too much about the plot would spoil everything, but know that this is not your average haunting. Instead, the ghostly presence just wants to make sure her beloved nephew has a good life, even if her vision of what that might be is nothing like his own... This story is an absolute classic and a joy to read so go find a copy!
Imagine the personal hell of a man, an author, who fears romance more than anything in the world, and hates above all the trite and simple in any literature.Honeysuckle Cottage is the story of such a man. Here is a sweet romance written as horror, or a book of horror in the language of cliche romance. Either way, this brilliant postmodern tale is laugh-out-loud hilarious.
Most splendid....
I was just reminded that at one point I read this short story and it was fucking awesome. The most brilliant parody of a ghost story I have ever read.
