https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/696824.The_Riders_of_High_Rock
L'Amour's ability to describe the time and place of his novels, and the small details about life in the old west, makes his stories come alive.This book, however, is not a good Louis L'Amour western.
I have a feeling he wouldn't have appreciated the re-release.Since he had to keep to the movie image of the character, both the bad guy and the horse he borrows are more fully developed characters than Cassidy.
Mostly, the enjoyment I got out of this book was from sentimentality for the other, better westerns I've enjoyed.I still recommend Louis L'Amour, but check out one of the books from his popular Sackett series or one of his classics like "Hondo."
The Riders of High Rock. By Louis L’amour.This is a classic Hopalong Cassidy novel. I was a Hoppy fan. I got my first two-gun set of cap pistols in December 1951. They were small-scale replicas of Hopalong’s Colt 45’s. I watched the old black and white television show faithfully in the last half of the 50’s. This book was large print and easy to read. It is the story of how Hoppy and his old friend Red Conners saved the day when a gang of rustlers was stealing the ranchers blind just east of the State line of Northern California.
This is one of the four Hop Cassidy novels written by Lous L'amour. Although worth reading, his Cassidy is modeled after the TV character rather than the edgier character of of the original creator Clarence Mulford, which I much prefer.
A man named Hopalong Cassidy finds his friend shot and finds out that cattle all around town are being stolen by cattle rustlers. He must find out where they take the cattle to and who's responsible. I would definitely recommend this book to readers that like action, and old westerns.
I remember stories of Hopalong Cassidy from my youth as well as remember watching the TV shows. I like Lamour and I wondered about the story with this character. Hoppy finds his friend in need, more friends who are experiencing troubles with their neighbors, and he decides to help out.
Not his best story, but entertaining for a road trip
Enjoyable story to listen to while driving out west.
Curious about Hopalong Cassidy, I started this series. It was nice to have an older man as the hero in this case.
Was too boring, gave up about 50 pages in.
A very entertaining book. Enjoyed it much more than I thought I would. One of L'Amour's Hopalong Cassidy books.
I’ve never read a Hopalong Cassidy novel or seen a movie or TV show featuring this folk hero but I am a Louis L’Amour fan so I wanted to give his four Hopalong Cassidy books a try.
When Doubleday wanted to start marketing some new Hopalong Cassidy novels in the early 1950’s, the original author, Clarence Mulford had already retired and was uninterested in resuming his writing career.
The problem was that L’Amour wanted to write stories using the original version of Hopalong Cassidy, which was a brash, hard drinking, foul-mouthed cowhand instead of the clean-cut epitome of gallantry and fair-play that movie audiences had grown accustomed to.
This novel features Hopalong Cassidy, a little older, but still a top notch tracker and skilled gunfighter.
Together with his friend, Red Conners, who has stumbled upon a band of rustlers stealing and moving the cattle into California, they set out to make things right with the world.
Hopalong and Red eventually track the stolen herd.
While Red discovers the destination for the stolen cattle, Hopalong thwarts another cattle theft and drives the herd back toward their rightful ranches.
The pains the author goes to in order to ensure that Cassidy is on the side of righteousness is a little over to top throughout the novel.
#3 in the Hopalong Cassidy series by author Louis L'Amour, writing as Tex Burns.
Mulford tradition whose series of novels L'Amour had been picked to continue.The Hopalong Cassidy Novels #3 - Hopalong rode into cattle country just east of the California line looking for his old friend Red Connors.
And now he's sent them out to take care of the one man who stands in his way: Hopalong Cassidy.
But Bolt's about to learn the hard way that if you shoot down a man like Cassidy, you better make sure he never gets up again.
I have never thought of myself as being a fan of Westerns, but I really enjoyed this book.
I usually listen to non-fiction books twice, to make sure I got everything.
This is the first time I have listened to a work of fiction again after finishing it the first time.
I was drawn to the book initially because it is a Hopalong Cassidy book, and my grandmother was a big fan of the television series.The book follows a typical Western theme where the good guys go hunting for rustlers.
After a series of close calls, the good guys eventually discover the rustlers and overcome them.
Unfortunately, I find this book to be lack luster compared to the first book in this series, The Rustlers of West Fork.
The second in the series, The Trail to Seven Pines, was a little bit of a let down compared to the first, but overall I still enjoyed it.However, I found myself constantly wanting more from The Riders of High Rock.
I strongly believe that if another 50 pages or so were put into further developing the plot, it would have been a much stronger book.
That part of the book was not covered nearly as in-depth as it could and should have been.
Book 4 in the Hopalong Cassidy saga.
Cassidy is traveling North to see his old friend Red Connors when he finds that Connors has been hunted down and shot.
Cassidy gets Red to safety and the sets out to find the rustlers that were chasing Red. Soon another friend from the Bar 20 group gets involved.L'Amour is a simple writer of great Western stories.
His stories are not complex but they are fun to read and give the reader a sense of what the West of the 1800's was really like.Well worth the read, but then so is every Loius L'Amour book.
I'm a huge fan of Louis L'Amour, and have read all his books. Sadly, his Hopalong stories are not his best. L'Amour knew how to tell a story and he was very, very good at it. But he was under contract on these, and his writing suffered a bit.Hopalong Cassidy finds his old friend Red in a cave, wounded badly. Red tells Hopalong about his clash with bad man Jack Bolt. Well, it's a Western, you can guess where it goes from there.Decent read, not his best work. Recommended to Western fans, L'Amour completists, and Cassidy fans, I guess.
This is a Hopalong Cassidy novel, one of four L'Amour wrote. He wrote them under a psuedo-name, Tex Burn, and never did acknowledge them as his own. He didn't like them, and now I know why. It has a great plot and wonderful characters (like most of his books), but the publisher made him write them to follow the movies and thus they are full of cowboy movie cliches. He didn't like it, and while I enjoyed the story, found the dialog distracting. 2 stars may be too harsh, but I've come to expect a lot from Louis L'Amour.
I grew up watching John Wayne with my dad. Westerns were a thing in my house, and through the years I grew to like them myself. Men being men, working hard and caring for their own. These are great stories I can listen to while at work. The dialog is a little campy (the audiobook reader does some cheesy voices as well), however they are fun and remind me of being little watching westerns with my dad.
I can see why L'Amour denied writing these Cassidy books. Definitely not up to his usual standard. The characters have less depth and the plot is less intelligent. Less to think about.And yet, still a fun read. There is some mystery, great adventure, and the classic view of cowboys and the old west. My favorite parts were some tall tales told by a few of the good-guys around the campfire one night.
Not the best L'Amur but given the fact that he was under the constraints of writing a novel based of the TV character rather than the classic Clarence Mulford character, he did a fair job. Still it is little wonder that for a long time L'Amour refused to acknowledge that he wrote the series. He wanted the character to be like the original rather than the weaker TV image. To see the difference, one should read the original Mulford novels.
This really would have worked better as a short story, or a short-short. Too many pages filled with the tedious tracking of cattle and not enough with action or actual plot. I understand L'Amour wrote these Hopalong books under a pen-name and wasn't exactly fond of them. Let that be your indication of their quality. I think I'll be skipping the other 3 in the series.
Hopalong Cassidy is the archetypical Western hero. He is not a lawman. He is simply a man who knows the difference between right and wrong ... and who tends to protect and defend his friends while being protected and defended by his friends. Louis L'Amour wrote four Cassidy novels. This is the 3rd in that series. I enjoyed this one quite a bit.
**** "The Riders of High Rock" by Louis L'Amour starts with Hopalong rescuing Red, then unmasking a rustler gang. One sweet gullible gal in the background, tricky tracking, sneaky ambushes, smart horses, hidden hotsprings, and true-life experienced author yield a top-notch tale of exciting action.
A fast and easy read of the Hopalong Cassidy series by L'amour. Not as mercurial as his later books but as always L'amour has a keen sense of both right and wrong and the nature of the human condition.
On a western kick and decided to start with the beginning of Louis L'Amour's long history in this genre.
The first of L'Amour's "Hop Along Cassidy" series I've read. Pretty good western novel, but in my estimation not one of his best.
An enjoyable read.
Classic WesternThey don't write them like they used to. And that is a shame. The inclusion of Hopalong Cassidy was great. Exciting and realistic story.
