https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33460.Among_the_Thugs
Expat American infiltrates the notorious English football hooligan sub-culture of the late 80s/early 90s, you may remember those horrible violent yobs.
Of course it's all now changed, hardly any football violence happens now.
The football authorities drew up new rules for every stadium in Britain : no spectator's standing areas (they were called terraces) any more - football will be all-seating from now on.
This was the first major change in football for donkey's years.
So the all-seater stadiums and the soaring prices, plus the beatific state of mind achievable at 150 beats per minute, solved what had previously been seen as ugly and intractable.
Intrigued by the stories of violence and lawlessness the games ignite in the supporters of the teams, he sets out to understand how and why so many young and working-class people are continuously worked into a fervor attending soccer games.But the deeper goal of this book, and this is where it gets interesting is: what are the societal factors which have produced this demographic?
In Among the Thugs, Buford is often in sketchy situations without a safety net-- in this book he participates in a number of soccer riots, attends a white power party in a pub in England, makes friends with the sketchiest thugs he can find.
Harry, driven by some unknowable compulsion but in keeping with the irrational violent expectations of his fellow “lads,” ends up perpetrating one of the most wincingly horrific acts of violence you will ever read about.Author Bill Buford was an American abroad in the 1980s when he began to immerse himself into the culture of English football/soccer thugs, trying to understand what brings their members together, why they engage in petty crime (forming gangs of jibbers, for instance--fans who leave for matches with nothing, bully their way onto trains and into stadiums and return with loot in their pockets), and to find out if there is any sociological pattern to their gang-like violent behavior and to understand the psychology of mob riots.
What he depicts as an idle curiosity about a strange feature of English culture, much sensationalized by the press, became a multiyear sociological study.It is an undeniable fact that by all conventional measures, attending a football game in England is a terrible way to spend a Saturday afternoon.
In a series of short narrative essays about his experiences across England and the continent, with all sorts of fringe members of "the Firm", Buford explores what that meaning is.Buford's first topic is the crowd itself, human individuality compressed into the herd, submerged in the crush, the chanting, the mass of movements.
This book does a wonderful job of reporting and commenting on the horror of soccer crowds.
There is very little to explain why hooligans do what they do, but what interests me is that this is a problem that seems to effect most western "civilized" nations except the good old U.
Surprise not in the predictable rioting of sports fans, but that nothing like this happens in the states.
If you know nothing about hooligans, than you will find it fascinating.
Buford does a particularly good job of retelling events that he has stuck himself in, without a camera, tape recorder, or even notebook for notes.
For the full review, please see this linkThere are two kinds of violence in Among the Thugs.The first is the violence we, the reading and civilized public, are supposed to abhor: violence perpetrated by the football (soccer) hooligans.The second kind of violence is that perpetrated by the police forces against protesters of all stripes, including those football hooligans, American author Bill Buford all but outright states is an entirely acceptable form of violence perpetrated by state actors.Don’t get me wrong: Among The Thugs is an enjoyable read and the violence is certainly disturbing.
The power of crowd, the Lad culture and football.The author gives his experiences of the football scene in England during the 80s. Glad the situations are much better and safer for everyone.
To Buford, this act became symbolic of the revolt of the unemployed and uneducated against class distinctions: sports fans "determined to break or destroy the things that were in their way." Buford's English friends were not surprised; this was normal behavior for the "lads." What did surprise them was that Buford had never been to a soccer match.
The truly scary revelation of this book is Buford's discovery of how easily he became part of the crowd and began to act just like them.
For instance, after a long and gripping description of two rival firms chasing one another around Fulham in an effort to find an area with no police presence that they could use to knock one another senseless, he writes, “I will not describe the violence because what I want to depict is this precise moment in its complete sensual intensity—before chronology allows the moment to evolve into its consequence.” A few paragraphs later he writes (and it really feels like he’s rubbing it in your face that he won’t tell you what happened), “Crowd violence was their drug.
It's pretty good.
The descriptions of the people and the violence are spot on.
Also the links to nationalism and racism and right wing political groups.
It gives you an insight into the underbelly of the new, media savvy, free-speech right, and where they came from.Buford though fails to find any true political conviction in the violence of the crowd, and settles on a sort of mass abnegation.
It's a good book, a bit repetitive perhaps, lacking a central cast, lacking cohesion possibly.
But I think that these foibles here, are all part of Buford's ultimately depressing message.
As was the case with Heat, Buford is overly conversational (really never a reason to put "I must admit" in writing) and in need of a friend with a red pen.
It would have been interesting to read this book in its time, since the Hillsborough disaster changed so much, and for that matter a follow up, even a brief one (in the New Yorker?) would be compelling.
Still, although I know it was part of the plan to convey the chaos in the writing, I would generally have found it better to have read a story from an observer's POV, rather than a participant's.
Too many times Buford told us he didn't know the outcome of something.
This was a violent, crowd-ruled thing.In one short chapter, Buford talks to a police captain who can't believe that in the States, at a football game, people show up shortly before the game (as opposed to rolling into town days before to drink and destroy), they head to assigned seats (as opposed to barb-wired, fenced-in pens), they yell and cheer for their teams (rather than doing gorilla imitations when a black person handles the ball), and then they file out to their vehicles (as opposed to crushing their way to the exit, which has resulted in injury and death more than a handful of times) and go home (as opposed to seeking out rival supporters for a good ol'fashioned beating).
These are normal, working people who seem to leave the confines of civilized behavior on a weekly basis as if they were just stepping out for air.
By the end of the book, however, you are also unperturbed by a night out with the lads glassing folks on the street because you have already read it 30 times.
I think it gives insight into how these people also end up viewing violence as something ordinary.
Buford's writing and philosophical musings are just OK, but the subject matter and the willingness he showed in placing himself in these situations are what makes this such a great read.
It’s as if the Yankees and Mets, Cubs and White Sox, Dodgers and Angels intensified their rivalry already due to proximity by adding a shared history dating back to the late 1800s where they competed for jobs and contracts complete with riots, strikes and picket lines.
It’s a small boy clambering up stadium steps for the very first time, gripping his father’s hand, gawping at that hallowed stretch of turf beneath him and, without being able to do a thing about it, falling in love.”The direct and strong ties between the community and its football club(s), in addition to the recession faced by the UK in the 1970s and ’80s made the hooliganism, if not an inevitability, than a very possible outcome.
The grittier version of  Fever Pitch . That was on the terraces. This is in the streets around the stadium. Most of all, it's about the crowd as its own being that subsumes individuals.I just missed the worst of English football violence. But I've been among those crowds on matchday and there is something electric about them. And not always the buzzy-feel-good electric. Sometimes it's the high voltage type that could overheat. Bill Buford captures that feeling and, a little chillingly, sometimes
The grittier version of 
  Fever Pitch
. That was on the terraces. This is in the streets around the stadium. Most of all, it's about the crowd as its own being that subsumes individuals.I just missed the worst of English football violence. But I've been among those crowds on matchday and there is something electric about them. And not always the buzzy-feel-good electric. Sometimes it's the high voltage type that could overheat. Bill Buford captures that feeling and, a little chillingly, sometimes makes it enticing.
the entire thing reads like some future dystopian nightmare where hooligans have gained enough power to run amok and cause massive violence, but this all actually happened in the 80s. so if you wanna call yourself a futbol fan...you have to read this and square with the sport's pretty gross history.
Just fascinating. I had PTSD or several days afterwards.
I wish I would have read this when I first came across it in 1994, but I am glad to have done it now. Along with the senselessness of the English lad football fan, I found a cogent analysis of the Brexit vote. Published in 1990. How little changes.
He also seemed amazed that scores fewer police are needed to control the crowds and that (generally speaking) everybody who comes to a game has a paid ticket.The book is most interesting where he talks about the Manchester United fans, who he initially fell in with and followed around for some time.
Perhaps this change in emphasis along with the seating design changes enacted after the Hillborough tragedy may have done as much to tamp down the violence at football matches.If Thompson needed to be jumped by Hells Angels to have the perfect ending for his book then Buford found his own way to perhaps unintentionally outdo Thompson.For anybody interested in football and hooliganism they should take some time and read this book.
I don't know if all of it is factually true, but it was a great reading and gives pointers for further research.
It's fascinating how men with decent paying jobs revel in freeloading (in fact, being \on the jib\"" while traveling to playoffs implies that the fans not only don't spend money but make a profit by petty theft and mugging.
The acts committed by these men in the name of good-natured fan antics are atrocious, stomach clenching, and the kind of thing you hope children never learn about.
Good passage:I found myself looking into a particularly ugly mouth.
Of the teeth still intact, many were chipped or split; none was straight: tappearedared to have grown up at odd, unconventional angles or (more likely) redirected by a powerful physical influence at some point in their career.
It kept be gasping for air page by page from the alley chases and bar brawls, laughing out loud from the brilliantly timed interjections of humor, and shrieking to avoid reading another word of its grotesque reality.
If ever a book could haunt me, this would be the one.
When I finished the last word of the last page, I had a strong desire to start from page one and read it all over again, but mentally I am not sure I would be prepared for it, knowing what is contained within each chapter.
I really loved this book.
Willing to mix it up, get loathed and rat-arsed, with thugs and hooligans to find out more about the psychology of crowd violence.
It isn't individual sadism, but group-think gone off.
His observations are funny, witty, scary, and I think accurate.
Soccer thugs apparently like England, The Queen, violence, the Falkland Islands, Margaret Thatcher, violence, lager in two-liter bottles, sausages, violence, and being abroad.
And to think I went to a FA cup final in 1980, just at the height of the violent era - was spat on, peed on, squashed and excoriated.
Read this book.
An absolutely stunning work of reportage.
Buford immerses himself in the scary, stupid, and bewildering world of soccer hooligans - a task that involves attending a National Front (ie.
The vividly drawn characters are dysfunctional and often despicable, but Buford is a fair witness, finding things to like about them as well as detest.
There's a stellar analysis of crowd dynamics and the disconcerting conclusion that soccer hooligans are addicts of a sort and that crowd violence is simply their drug of choice.
As to why this particular addiction is so widespread, he makes no conjectures, which is perhaps the book's only failing.
Overall, though, this is an amazing, amazing work.
Just in time for the World Cup. I always wondered what drove these guys to go crazy and trash the cities they went to soccer games in.
Buford, an American, meets up with a few of them in bars near the stadiums.
Americans just go to football games and drink beer and cheer.
Most of them have decent blue collar jobs and do all their drinking and fighting on the weekend.
A must for watching the World Cup. And you wonder why there are all those fences around the stadiums.
Only Bill Buford could take subject matter so disturbing and write about it in a way that is both sensitive and compelling.
Considering I have virtually no knowledge or interest in sports in general and football (soccer) in particular and am generally squeamish about violence, the fact I found this book such a great read is impressive.
That in itself is even more disturbing.
I loved this book and while I found portions of it difficult to read, I found myself needing to talk about it with anyone who would listen.
Thompson did for 1960s motorcycle gangs, Bill Buford here does for 1980s English soccer fan culture and it's well worth reading if that interests you as it did me.
A New Yorker writer, Buford is the straight man to the crazy brutal violent world around him and he tells how he got sucked in only to emerge lucky to keep his life.
Lots of wonderful story telling around the many matches he attended and fans he tries to understand and sociology he theorizes about throughout.
I got to know and experience this world, firsthand, through Buford's words and suggest you do the same.

I have overall liked the book. It provides tons of insights about crowd violence and how hooliganism developed in the U.K. And in other areas of the world (but mostly U.K. ) and most important why it developed and what patterns followedHe reason for the 3 stars is that the prose is at time clumsy and some digressions are way too long.I was personally hoping to find crazier stories but this remains a good book to read nonetheless
This book provided me with my weekly dose of gratuitous violence, similar I suppose to the chair-throwing on Jerry Springer or, better yet, an episode of pro wrestling! I can't really say that I learned that much from reading this other than to completely avoid public transportation in London on a match day, lest the train/bus I'm riding be hijacked by drunken, angry louts that want to beat me silly because I made the mistake of looking at them.
