https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36439333-matchmaking-for-beginners
Free-spirited Blix Holliday is her family's black sheep, and that doesn't bother her one bit, because she doesn't like them much anyway.She believes there's a perfect match for everyone, she believes in thought energy, watching people's auras, and her ability to wish things into existence—and she has a book of spells to prove it.
But Marnie just wants a normal life—husband, kids, a house in the suburbs—so she doesn't believe Blix when she tells her that there's a great big life out there waiting for, an exciting one far beyond the comforts she craves."The subversive truth about love is that it really is the big deal everyone makes it out to be, and it's not some form of security or an insurance policy against loneliness.
The problem is that she's 100% wrong.Noah's great-aunt Blix only meets Marnie twice, but she instantly recognizes a fellow spirit, another matchmaker who can see the magic and love in the universe.
It turns out old Aunt Blix might have been onto something, because Noah and Marnie's marriage goes south before it even starts.
Marnie is determined to sell the house and move back home, but, even from the grave, Blix has her way of making sure everyone discovers their destiny.This book was a bit of magic, a touch of humor, and a lot of romance.
I liked this book. It was a cute, quick read. I liked Blix although I would have liked to hear more about her. Marnie got on my nerves at times, especially when Noah continually came into the house to take things. After the first time, what idiot doesn't change the locks? The man came in the house, uninvited, to take things, four times!
MATCHMAKING FOR BEGINNERS walked straight into my heart, trailing a shower of golden sparkles. Dawson has created a magical world inhabited by characters so engaging and real it seems plausible they might drop by for a cup of coffee. By turns funny, wise, and poignant, this is a story about falling in love—with the painful, messy, joyful business of living.
Now that she’s marrying the man of her dreams, she’s sure this is the life she’ll get.
Then Marnie meets Blix Holliday, her fiancé’s irascible matchmaking great-aunt who’s dying, and everything changes—just as Blix told her it would.When her marriage ends after two miserable weeks, Marnie is understandably shocked.
Marnie doesn’t believe she’s anything special, but Blix somehow knew she was the perfect person to follow in her matchmaker footsteps.And Blix was also right about some things Marnie must learn the hard way: love is hard to recognize, and the ones who push love away often are the ones who need it most.
I really wanted to love this book, and there were aspects that were good, but there was too much happening in what could have been a much more streamlined/focused story. And Marnie was SO very unlikable to me?? I didn’t feel any sympathy for her, and honestly, I think she and Noah deserved each other. She def didn’t deserve Patrick. And wow, I hate how shabbily she treated poor Jeremy, the real underdog of the story.
The concept is...funky: a dying great-aunt (Blix) conjures romantic magic all around her, and she wants to leave behind her legacy for a young woman she hardly knows (Marnie) because there's some sort of kismet between them.
It almost made up for the atrocious mental health crimes in the first half of the book.
By the end, once she's figured out how to help herself, she also helps everyone else, who are mostly good people.Blix, Patrick, Sammy, and a great dog and cat were just a few examples of characters that kept this thing afloat.
Matchmaking for Beginners is a nonsensical, overly sappy romance novel that features a incoherent story coupled with insufferable characters.
I’ve been at funerals that had better vibrations than this.We never got married because I’ve finally learned that if you have to bring the law into your personal relationships, then you’re doing it wrong.One time he said to me, “You know, I had a great six-pack when I was young,” and I said to him, “Bragging about beer is so unbecoming for an old man.”It’s like he’s a person who has his emotions in a safety deposit box somewhere, and he forgot where he put it.My Review:Matchmaking for Beginners was the second superbly written book of Maddie Dawson’s that I have had the pleasure of reading.
The main character of Marnie was an oddly unobservant bubblehead who was all too easily tilted off the rails and careening towards ruin.
So here's the thing....sometimes you want a book that is sweet and lighthearted and with a happy ever after.
It has been a long time since I read purely for fun.And this book was sweet.
Less lighthearted than I expected.
But, the reason I gave it 5 stars, is because I didn't expect to love two of the characters - Blix, and her lover, Houndry.
Blix could have felt silly but she had such warmth and love written into her.
And Houndry just exuded contentment.I really like the motto of the book: Whatever happens, love that.The world could use a little of that these days.
Noah once was a caring and loving nephew to his great Aunt Blix when he was very young; now he is an arrogant, immature, haughty, rude and absolutely spoiled young man.When Blix first sees Marnie at the engagement party, there is an immediate connection between the two women and Blix calls Marnie over to introduce herself.
Blix has told Marnie that she’s amazing and is powerful and is in line for a big, big life (whatever that is - read the book to find out!).
Magical realism meets chick-lit. In other words, simply charming. And now I want to move to Brooklyn too!!
Definitely made me think of Hallmark or Lifetime movies.Matchmaking for Beginners was a meh kind of book.
She annoyed me constantly because she marries this guy, who doesn't want to be married, and then gets upset when she's handed divorced papers.
Then the second guy, I don't even remember his name, was lower than meh.
Heck, this book was annoying to deal with that I'm so freaking happy I listened to the audio while working today.Overall, it was meh.
NO - well, unless it was just about Blix and had no one else in the movie.
I wanted to love this.
I really liked the idea of the plot.
And ultimately that is what kept me reading.
I wanted to know how it ended.
But I struggled with the writing.
A lot.
But. It just felt amateur.
It often felt completely implausible or stilted or a million other off-putting things.Also.
Marnie just annoyed me.
Her name annoyed me.
She is just not a terribly likable character.
And how the heck is she supposed to have a 'big life' when she is such a passive character!?
I will end my tirade there.
I really wanted to like this.
A magical confection about two women at opposite ends of life’s funny, messy, joyful dance. You’ll cheer for the eccentric Blix and root for Marnie, her young, unexpecting protégé. Highly recommended—with sprinkles on top.

This is one of my favorite kind of books, you know the ones I am talking about, the ones that leave you with a tear in your eye and a smile on your face. The kind of book you don't want to end..... This is not my normal genre but I am so glad I gave this book a chance. This book is full of wonderfully colorful characters and the ups and downs of life and once you pick it up it will be hard to put down. Welcome to Blix Holliday's world.
בתחילה חשבתי שהוא בז'אנר הרומאן הרומנטי אבל הוא לא בדיוק נופל לקטגוריה הזו והוא כל כך נעים לקריאה וגם משעשע שמפליא אותי אחרי כל כך הרבה ספרים בקטגוריה הזו  שהסופרת הצליחה לכתוב ספר כל כך מרענן.מארני נישאת לנואה, אהובה מזה שנתיים.
כשהיא חוזרת לבית משפחתה באיווה, היא מקבלת מכתב מהעורך דין של בליקס שמבקש ממנה להגיע בדחיפות לברוקלין.הספר מתאר את קורותיה של מארני שהיא טיפוס די מיוחד ומקסים, ממש שובה את הלב.
בברוקלין מארני פוגשת את חבריה של בליקס וגם את נואה שחוזר לחייה.
בדרך היא עושה כמה טעויות ומגלה את עצמה.Big like לספר, לדמות של מארני ולסופרת שמצליחה לכתוב ספר מרענן ומקסים שכזה.

3'5Es un libro diferente, divertido, tierno y duro, hay amor peeero no es un libro romántico.Cuando comencé a leer pensé que me iba a gustar mucho, que sería un libro épico, pero la verdad es que se fue desinchando muy rapidamente.
El toque de la magia y del "matchmaking" me gustó es diferente.Pero para ser un libro donde hay magia y casamenteras no veo yo mucho love en el air, esa parte se quedó muy escasa.Marnie es una protagonista complicada pero hubo momentos que me hizo dudar de su madurez mental se comportó como una adolescente en vez de como una adulta.
Patrick es un personaje que me gustó mucho, su historia, su aislamiento llega al corazón del lector.
Maddie Dawson's Matchmaking for Beginners was unexpectedly delightful.
I enjoyed how so much wisdom about love, life and death was dispersed with humor and lightheartedness, coming through even clearer because of it.There's so much heart in these characters; a little bit quirky, but actually quite normal and loving; especially dear old Blix; who only saw the good in people, or tried to, at least.
Blix has the ability to see which people fit together and when she meets Marnie, she knows she has found her successor for her matchmaking projects.
I would just recommend everyone to read it - good vibes can only come from it.
Fantastic fun, fabulously well-writtenI loved this delightful, honey of a novel and recommend it to all. Maddie Dawson, thank you for the entertainment, the escape as well as your knowing commentary on life and love.
DNF because this is so boring.
Not at all what I expected, but a wonderful story nevertheless.I expected a cheesy comedy about matchmaking, but what I got was a touching, mildly amusing story about someone finding themselves and helping a few others along the way.No sex (at least not the vulgar kind), no violence (just the pissed off wife kind) and only a couple of dirty thoughts make this a good read for those who like a "feel-good" story.
Whatever happens, love that!Loved this novel! Marnie has a wonderfully messy life and when Blix steps into it, things get even more wonderful and messy. You will laugh, cry, and believe in magic again while reading this book! Simply delightful!!!
Since then, Blix has become the “family misfit, you see, the one who has to be carefully watched.” When Blix meets Marnie, she recognizes her right away as someone like herself, who has the magical ability to know another person’s soulmate.
Marnie has the talent for matchmaking, just like Blix; she just doesn’t know it yet.
I love Marnie, but as an older person, I’m so happy to meet Blix, who doesn’t give two cents for convention, but collects about her a plethora of misfits and free spirited folks.
This story was witty, romantic, full of spells, greedy people, and love all rolled into one.Marnie marries Noah and two weeks later, she finds herself divorced.
His great-aunt, Blix, tried to tell her that Noah was not the right man for her but Marnie followed her heart.
When Marnie arrives, Blix has inserted other stipulations in her will that will start the funny and romantic escapades.Tremendously funny and full of fun characters that you can relate to.
The book talks about magic spells and matchmaking; a combination that does not seem feasible but the author uses them sparingly throughout the story.
Delightful "kindle first" eBook for May. I tend to lower my expectations somewhat when I download a book for free and I become giddy when free downloads turn out to be good or great.
I am now a fan of Maddie Dawson and I am giddy to have found this book.
In Matchmaking For Beginners, Dawson takes a fun look at the intuitive powers that apparently some people have in finding love for other people.
Marnie is a twenty nine year old who can see sparkles and feel love blooming around her but she definitely is not able to turn her own intuition into a love match for herself.
A wonderful messFirst off, I just want to say that I thought this book was wonderfully written.
I have struggled with how many stars because the book was charming and fun and definitely witty.
It’s probably the cuss word I dislike the most and this book is full of them.
So, while I can appreciate a well written book, I give it fewer stars because it is not my kind of book.
I like to read all kinds of books, but I prefer ones that align better with my values and morals.
You read it and decide for yourself.
See my review here - https://youtu.be/pO_bta4fVNA
