https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252499.The_Queen_s_Fool
Gregory, the reigning Queen of historical fiction, weaves a tale that is as much an insight into the Tudor court as it is into religious history.
Like many women of the time, Hannah's age and her sexual innocence leave her at the mercy of men who would use her for social elevation.
If you even have a vague fascination with history than read this book!
You may get more out of it if you're interested in Tudor and religious history however the narrative and characterisation is so strong it wouldn't matter.
This wasn't complexity, but simply a sloppy author who had no idea want kind of character she wanted.Hannah, we are told constantly, is a free-spirited, strong-willed woman who does not want to have to be subservient to any man.
And yet, Gregory obviously wanted to write a romance, so this strong-willed woman who wants to be self-employed and free from any male rule swoons at even the mention of Robert Dudley.
She speaks in absolutes constantly - Mary Tudor is "the most courageous woman," Elizabeth is "the cleverest," phrases like "that I had ever known" and "greatest" regularly punctuate the narrative.
So, this is my last Gregory novel, and last Bianca Amato reading.
Auf Instagram teilen wir unsere Leidenschaft unter #makehistossexyagain. Macht mit! Eine absolute solide, gut recherchierte Geschichte im tollen spannend verpackten Gregory-Stil. Die Geschichte hat einige Wendungen, die es einem nie langweilig werden lassen. Die Protagonistin ist mal anders als die bisherigen, sehr unroyal und unweiblich und eigensinnig. Ihre Entwicklung gefiel mir fantastisch. Man bekam ebenfalls einen guten Eindruck von der Glaubenskrise, die erneut durch "Bloody Mary" angefacht wird. Ich hätte gerne noch intensiver hinter die Kulissen am Hofe geschaut, wie es sonst bei Mrs. Gregory üblich ist, aber trotzdem eine lesenswerte Geschichte für alle history-Fans.
I mean, she has like a thousand books and they've been turned into movies and miniseries and who knows what else.
She clearly knows her shit where historical research is concerned, particularly the Tudor period.
And yet, I only made it to page THREE before I noped my way out of this book.
Here's a summary of those three pages:- 14 year old girl.
- Grown ass married man sexually pursuing 14 year old girl.- Seriously.
I don't care if it's historically accurate.
A FOURTEEN YEAR OLD GIRL is being sexually assaulted by an adult who's clearly been grooming her, and it's only page three.
Hannah The Fool gets to experience the King's death, Queen Mary's rise to the throne, and Princess Elizabeth's eternal scheming to get on the throne all from the front seat of the court.
HOW DARE SHE!!!"The Queen had to watch the man she still passionately loved at another woman's beck and call, and that woman, Elizabeth, the unwanted sister who had stolen Mary's Father, was now seducing her husband."And yet, when Lord Robert's wife, entrusted with Hannah's care, treats Hannah like dirt, thinking she has fooled around with Lord Robert (and in some ways, Hannah did), GOD FORBID WHAT A HORRIBLE WOMAN!!
Enjoyed this book tremendously, with the exception of the ending, which felt weak and rushed compared to the rest of the book. Excellent historical fiction. I'm buying all this author's books.
Just like fanfics.The Queen's Fool hones in on fictional Spaniard Jewish girl Hannah Greene.
(The best part of that book was the "new" sexual practices from French court, such as fellatio.) What do I expect from a genre that makes either Elizabeth or Dudley's wife the villain, and Dudley always the poor torn soul.There had to be interesting things going on back then that did not involve royalty.
I know they need a selling hook, but c'mon.The Elizabeth/Dudley stuff was the weakest part.I think that it is best to read only one of these types of books at a time.
"And all they will remember of this queen is that she brought the country floods and famine and fire. She will be remember as England's curse when she was to have been our virgin queen, England's saviour."  That quote is exactly what I knew of Queen Mary Tudor, Elizabeth I's older sister and predecessor. The Queen's Fool is a factual and fictional retelling of Mary's evolution from the miserable child who saw her mother divorced and put aside by Henry VIII, to the woman who would become queen o
The Queen's Fool is a factual and fictional retelling of Mary's evolution from the miserable child who saw her mother divorced and put aside by Henry VIII, to the woman who would become queen of England and burn thousands of people for their religion in her attempts to return the country to Catholicism, earning the name Bloody Mary.
The novel is told in first person perspective from the point of view of Hannah Verde, a fictional Jewish girl who comes to court to serve Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth.
I have loved Gregory at times because I felt her fictional accounts fit so perfectly into the narrative that we know to be true, into the facts that surround the tale.
I know, it makes for a character who can relate first hand what is going on in both camps, but really, wouldn’t your true feelings lean one way or the other?
I have two more novels to read in this series of books about the Plantagenets and Tudors.
Since I have not read them in complete order, I have already read the next book in line, The Virgin’s Lover, which is the continuation of this book into the life and reign of Elizabeth I.
Queen Mary, for example, seems like a really good person whose heart is in the right place--right up until she starts burning heretics.
However, I did think that something that happened towards the end was kind of convenient in terms of making Hannah into a "better person." It just seemed like she came around to a completely different perspective so fully that it was a little strange, and I thought she didn't need to beat herself up so much about having been (somewhat justly) angry and resentful in the past.
For me, the story dragged a little in the middle while Hannah was still at court (the first time).
But on the other hand, Daniel explains his actions to Hannah by saying that he was lonely when he "first arrived in Calais," which implies that the affair started in the summer of 1555, and he says that he slept with the other woman "more than once" and that it wasn't a serious relationship--which is completely misleading if he was actually sleeping with her for a year.
This normally only happens when I am slightly underwhelmed by my reading experience.As always, the audio narrator Bianca Amato gave a stellar performance and I enjoyed the fact that the book was written from the viewpoint of a non-royal, especially one that has an uncontrollable power of prophecy.
I also really enjoyed learning about the lives of Jews during this time of persecution and the danger of the Spanish Inquisition.To be honest, I have never been a fan of king and queen books but the last 2 audio books by this author was excellent, in fact they were such great experiences it had me believing that maybe my tastes have changed.
Based upon the reign of Bloody Mary we get to explore several what ifs-- what if one of England's most ill thought of Monarchs was just human?
Told from the perspective of a servant girl with a special sight, we get to see the unfolding of Queen Mary's rule from the perspective that not many people would have bothered with, yet it proves to be a fascinating way to present a heart wrenching time in England's history.
Suffice it to say, this novel delves into the what ifs and shows the world different perspectives of a very scary time in England's history.
Depois de ler 5 livros da autora já sei com o que posso contar e estava ansiosa por ler este - embora soubesse que a personagem principal é fictícia, ao contrário, dos restantes livros.Oliver e Hannah Verde “Green”, pai e filha naturais de Aragão, Espanha, são honestos e trabalhadores, esforçando-se todos os dias por ganhar o seu ganha-pão.
Não obstante o facto de terem sido enveredados nas teias da inquisição e por isso, os dois tiveram de fugir para Inglaterra (após a morte da mãe de Hannah) e lá esperam um recomeço numa terra mais tranquila.
An engaging heroine--if somewhat too contemporary in her attitudes for the 16th Century, IMO--narrates this unusual perspective on Tudor England which I enjoyed very much.
I'll have to read a few more titles by the author before I can say whether or not she's earned her title as queen of Elizabethan fiction.One thing I found especially intriguing was her unusually sympathetic portrayal of Mary Tudor.
Maybe I haven't read/seen enough contemporary accounts of the period, but in my experience books about Tudor England tend to make Elizabeth the heroine and focus on the "Bloody Mary" part of her elder sister's reign.
The Queen's Fool was stupid. Historically inaccurate and completely out of touch with the tone of the era. Some books - Michael Faber's The Crimson Petal and the White comes to mind, or Susanna Clarke's Jonathan Strange and Mister Norrell - can walk and talk like historical fiction, and still prove irresistably interesting to contemporary audiences. (Postmodernist historical fiction?) This one, however, fails miserably. I thought I was going to like it. I really, really didn't.
I actually read this book half grudgingly, I can’t remember why now other than that I like to switch historical periods.
I haven’t read many books from the period of “Bloody” Mary Tudor, as it’s not the most popular period to write about and it’s a blot on mankind to read what we did to each other during those years of the Spanish Inquisition.
So yes, this book included some of that.
Dragging a BIT at times, I found overall this book to be interesting and that it was able to hold my interest and add to my thoughts about Henry VIII’s legacy.
For instance, we meet Princess Elizabeth in the first few pages of the book, where she is "catting" about with her stepfather.
Hannah tells us: "that was the first sight I ever had of Princess Elizabeth: damp with desire, panting with lust, rubbing herself like a cat against another woman's husband" (pg5) and that Elizabeth was "a virgin in name alone...
Yet later, the heroine tells us she loves Elizabeth because "she is the bravest cleverest woman I have ever known, she is like a quick-witted lion...
Is Elizabeth a bad woman or a good one?
Gregory truly captured an "underdog" in her novel depicting Hannah, the Queen's fool in the novel by the same title.
Hannah, a Jewish exile is brought to court and although she is a "Fool", she becomes so much more.
Strong, intelligent, and ambitious; Gregory shows that even "lesser" court members were at the top of their game.
The novel is very vivid to say the least (do you expect any less from Gregory?) and is an entertaining and easy read.
How historically accurate is it, you ask?
Witty with some surprises, The Queen's Fool will pass your afternoon.
2.5 starsSo far my least favourite book in this series.I think because we get the view of someone outside of the Royal Family circle.
Harrah is the Queen's Fool.
Most of the time I liked her, and admired her independence.
But at the same time, it grinded my gears that she was on everyone's side.
Can you say people pleaser.
Whoever she was with, that's whose side she was on.And she wasn't doing it to be cunning, she was just very empathic.
What I would have loved was this book written from their POV.
Hannah's narrative is decidedly the focus of this story, and, despite her close relationship with both Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth, I found that the focus on Hannah left me disappointed in what I got from these two daughters.
I think Philippa Gregory did a good job in delivering both of these characters in a way that is true to what we know about them, in terms of personality and actual events.
I LOVE Philippa Gregory, and I'll definitely finish the rest of her books that I haven't yet read, but, so far, this ranks with The Red Queen in terms of its weakness on its own.
Every time I pick up a Gregory novel, I want more.
My obsession began when my best friend said, hey, you know that movie The Other Boleyn Girl, I just read the book and I know you are going to think I'm crazy because it's so smutty, but I loved it...
and so, the obsession began.This installment is about Queen Mary (Henry's oldest daughter) and her almost tyrannical rule of England.
My only wish is that Gregory would write more about the Tudors (I mean we hardly got enough of Jane Seymour and Katherine Parr), but I cannot wait to read the next installment.
I love to learn new things, and this book prompted me to read more about that period in European history.This was the best historical fiction novel I have ever read.
I've always been at least slightly interested in British history, but this novel has certainly piqued my hope to learn more.
One thing I found extra cool about this novel is that some of it takes place in Hampton Court, and I was privileged to visit there while in high school, so I was able to imagine it as it really is.Another important thing to me when reading a book is a happy ending.
For most of this book, the main character's story is completely subsumed by the machinations of the various royalty and wannabes that surround her--she's just along for the ride. It's only in the last quarter of the book or so that Hannah actually gets her own storyline. And the storyline goes like this: "OMG, I'm married and in love, but I hate my in-laws!" --> "OMG, my husband cheated on me before we were married, and he has a child he didn't tell me about! I'm going to run away now." --&gt
Sent to spy on the soon-to-be Queen Mary, who knows she's a spy but decides they should become bosom companions anyway, and takes her with her everywhere, even when secrecy and speed are of the utmost importance and she can only take a couple people.3.
Sent by Mary to spy on Princess Elizabeth, who also knows she's a spy but who also decides that they should become bosom companions anyway, and doesn't bother to hide her plotting against Mary despite the fact that Hannah is clearly friends with the queen.Also: Good lord, girl, grow a backbone.
My least favourite Philippa Gregory novel so far.....all about the struggle for the throne between Mary and Elizabeth after Edward dies.
Back and forth, back and forth.
The court went there.
The court went there.
Hannah the fool was betrothed to Daniel.
Then she was married to him.
Mary was pregnant.
Then she wasn't.
Then she wasn't.
Then she wasn't.
Then she wasn't.
Interesting bits included insight into the life of Jews at the time and the madness which must have driven Queen Mary to burn all those people.
Not a pretty picture of of future Queen Elizabeth though.
I used to enjoy Gregory's novels more, but now I've pretty much had it with English royalty in general and the Tudors in particular. While I appreciated her including a Jewish heroine in "The Queen's Fool," her inaccurate description of 16th-century Judaism was a real turn-off. As a Jewish historical novelist whose heroines are also Jewish, I expect other authors to do their research on this delicate subject. Good historical fiction can teach readers a great deal about history, particularly about the lives of women. But if done poorly, stereotypes are reinforced and innocent people [or peoples] defamed.
I've never been so torn on how to feel about main characters until I read this book. I was so utterly torn between disgust and love for both Queen Mary and Princess Elizabeth at times. It was an amazing book, really telling about the characters of people, mixed with of course, some factual historical information, and a really lovely story about a girl who comes of age and figures out what she desires.
3.5 stars. Judging this as a work of fiction and for its entertainment value, it is better than I expected. On the other hand, Gregory took liberties with her writing that were beyond ethical, in historical fiction. To keep for me now, and I will write a review soon.
Despite loving Philippa Gregory, the idea of a "psychic" fool, who is nothing more than a commoner, as the protagonist told me this story would probably be too far into the fantasy world and too far removed from the action of the Tudor court that I've come to love about this series to be enjoyable for me.
But to my great surprise, I was wrong in my early predictions.Hannah proved to be an interesting and dynamic character, and despite being just a fool she was still very much involved with and closely tied to the big players of Queen Mary's reign.
Throughout the book, she is also conveniently present for almost every significant event that occurs - Mary's flight to the north and triumphant march into London, Elizabeth's arrest, Mary's phantom pregnancy, the Inquisition in England, the loss of Calais, Mary's death.
Gregory is determined to shove her "ordinary character" into as many of the big events as possible, even when this is implausible or unrealistic - what real person is ever present at EVERY significant major event?All that said, I liked this novel better than a lot of Philippa Gregory's other books.
