https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/894072.The_Little_Red_Caboose
My nephew keeps bringing these Little Golden Books to be read. The story is quaint. I think people are excited to see the Caboose because it means the train has finally cleared the railroad crossing. It's funny to see how excited kids get about a train in this book.The art is bright and sunny. The nephew thought it was a good book. He gave it 4 stars.
Goin' down the track Track track track Smokestack in the back Back back back Little red caboose behind the train.I miss trains.
We would see the backside of towns and the country, even though it doesn't look like early America anymore, and by that I mean, the 1940s and 50s.
And who took away Greyhound and those Discover Ameri-passes that people would buy that allowed them to go anywhere in America in a month for just $50?
You could get on and off anywhere you liked and stay in a town for as long as you wanted.
Again, I'm going to sound like I'm about 50 years older than I am, but there's something about these "boomer" children's books that's missing in today's literature. I like that this book's lesson is that it's okay to not be the flashy, noticeable one all the time. If you do your job, and you do it well, then that is enough to keep the whole train from destruction. It's a lesson in humility and pride in ones talents, be they extraordinary or simple.
I adored this book as a child. It only makes me sad that there are no more cabooses on trains anymore.
The little things make all the difference12 February 2012 Well, with an average rating of 4/5 and 439 reviews I have a feeling that people won't necessarily consider me a 'cheat' by adding this book to my list and including a review. I do remember reading this book as a child and I since read through it again because my brother (who has a mental age of 10) had it sitting next to his computer. I believe my brother has an almost complete collection of Little Golden Books (and if I add all of them
I do remember reading this book as a child and I since read through it again because my brother (who has a mental age of 10) had it sitting next to his computer.
Granted, this is a kid's book and my brother likes it because it is about trains.
Anyway, this book is about how even the smallest of us can have a significant role to play in society (gee, I did not realise that I would turn a Little Golden Book into an allegorical text, but I would not be surprised if a lot of them are allegorical so that children are able to understand the complex lessons).
A little Golden book that brought me back to my childhood. A great book for train lovers, with brightly colored pictures and not too many words. Good for a new reader, or just something to read out loud.
I bought this book for my young son because I remembered having a copy when I was a kid (no, it wasn't a first edition copy). And also because my son has caught my husband's train-craziness.This book is about the perfect length for reading to Preschoolers. The text per illustrations is pretty light, and, while longer in places, the additional length adds emphasis. It is easy to understand the caboose's internal and external conflict, and, therefore, both resolutions. The artwork is stunning, which is what I remembered about my copy. It is absolutely perfect for young train-lovers.
At the time the book came out, people were being beaten in schools for speaking their own languages or practicing their hereditary arts.
There were doubtless people who would have LIKED to be living the kind of lifestyle that is depicted in this book, but who were forbidden to do so.I've encountered people who knew the 'code talkers' of WWII, for example, who have commented on how ironic the code talkers thought it was that they were paid to speak languages they were punished for speaking in school.
The caboose is NOT less important than all the more glamorous cars, and proves its worth, at least in the efficacy of its brakes.
The railway equals progress and the 1950s world of The Little Red Caboose is optimistic progress at its very Eisenhowerian best.
There's a pesky lack of diversity though, which reflects 1953 as well (except for the Native Americans, but that's a whole other issue).The Little Red Caboose is probably not as iconic as The Little Engine That Could, but the story is still sweet.
The illustrations (even without the diversity) are gentle and happy.What this world really needs is the return of the caboose.
Kids need cabooses to wave at, to remind them about going places,and to take their love out into the world.
The Little Red Caboose is a cute book about a caboose that wants the children to notice and wave at him like they do to the coal, flat, oil, box cars, and the engine.
When the train is going up a really tall hill the train starts to slip backwards and it is up the the little red caboose to save the train from going backwards which it does.
Then a couple more engines come along to help the train up the hill.
All of the towns people were grateful that the caboose was there to save the train now all the children save their biggest waves for the caboose.
My 18 month old loves this book. Some of the pages can be a little wordy for modern attention spans, but he sits still through the whole thing. Probably because there are lots of other things going on in the background of the pictures that he loves to look at and point out; airplanes, elephants, boats, etc.I remember this book from when I was a child and I am delighted that my son enjoys it so much.
My 2-year old son sort of likes this book. He likes trains right now. The pictures are pretty good (but dated) and have enough familiar objects in them for him to recognize. The text on a few pages is a little too long for his attention span, but many other pages have very brief text. The story is inane. I really don't like to read it over and over.
The story here is all right but it just feels a little dated in some of the dialogue and plot points. The art overall is great - love Tibor Gergely - but it's similarly dated, especially when the train goes up the mountain past the encampment of Native Americans. Overall still better than a lot of children's books written today, though, and if you have a train lover it's a must-have.
Another of our 19 month olds favorite books. There is so much to point out in the pictures. She points out the train signals and gates and we talk about up and down. It is just a great story with super illustrations.
Oh. My. Goodness. I am always surprised at which books my little one becomes fascinated by-THIS one we have literally read AT LEAST 15 times today. I found it at a junky thrift store (my favorite kind) for a few pennies. To him, it's priceless.
I suppose this book is a classic, but neither I nor my nieces are very interested in it. We've read other books about trains, and other books about being helpful, but this one falls flat. I don't know why.Like the use of repetition, though.
William actually walked up to me with this book, and I got it because we were doing the letter R. When it was time to read it, William wasn't too interested, but Natalie enjoyed it once or twice. It was similar to The Little Engine that Could, but not just the same story with a new look.
One of the books I purchased for our plane trip to Atlanta, I had a childhood flashback when I saw the illustration of boats at the park. I realized I had this book as a child - very odd sensation. Tommy didn't want to read this book, at first,, but he loved it once we got around to it.
this book is so cute! some of my children really really like this book not all but some. I think that it can be good for heloing children find some understnanding of others emotions and make some connections to their own lives.
Whilst delivering a positive message, the plot is a little too simple. Illustrations are quite busy as they depict the train's journey through different settings, providing plenty to look at. Odd to see the word "Tyres" incorrectly spelled as "Tires" in one of the illustrations.
This is one of my favorite books because I like it's name so I really like it lots. I like the pictures of the kids and animals. I like all of the nature in the pictures. I liked that the caboose stopped the train so it wouldn't fall down the hill. So I like it so much!
Another winner from Little Golden Books. My son actually quotes "a box car, a coal car, an oil car..." too cute! Keep in mind this story and pictures were written in a different time, try not to be offended by the stereotypical portrayal of the American Indians.
An oldie but a goodie. My autistic son followed this story from beginnning to end, with "Life is a Highway' blaring away at the same time. You cant go wrong with trains, especially cute little red trains and he even tolerated the word 'caboose' instead of 'train'.
One of the books I purchased for our plane trip to Atlanta, I had a childhood flashback when I saw the illustration of boats at the park. I realized I had this book as a child - very odd sensation. Tommy didn't want to read this book, at first,, but he loved it once we got around to it.
This Little Golden Book classic from 1953, just 25 cents when it first was published, shows us the power of perseverance, and that we all have something to add to the world, even if we are a little red caboose. And that lesson is priceless!
A children's book that I do not recall with any particular fondness.
This book is good for younger children. It shows how someone who once was unnoticed, is now the hero.
This classic Golden Book is simple, easy to read, and not too wordy. It's a cute story in which the little red caboose discovers his calling in life. My daughter wanted it read repeatedly.
One of my grandson's favorites when he was smaller, he can now read it to me!Oct 2015 ... read it today in my sorting and purging project and decided it is a keeper!
A great story with vibrant illustrations, and a moral about being important and feeling needed. I think all kids feel like the caboose some days.
