https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447720.Whiteoaks_Of_Jalna
Funny how my reactions have changed in re-reading these books now. I read them previously in my teens. I don't remember realizing how really self-centered each of the Whiteoaks are. I always felt that way especially about Meg; but this time around I see it is really all of them. They are a big multi-generational family who are not very nice to one another. But they always pull together against outsiders.
http://pussreboots.pair.com/blog/2015...
During this book in the series, it occurred to me that no one in the family is particularly admirable. But that does not make it less fun and engaging.
It continues storylines begun in the previous book, with younger brother Finch Whiteoak coming into prominence as a major character.
Finch is a sensitive, awkward adolescent who loves music more than anything else.
Alayne and Renny have always been a case of opposites attracting, and there's enough sexual tension between them to set the book on fire.
The writing here is of a high quality, far superior to that of later books in the series.
The death of the grandmother is vividly depicted, and Finch's adolescent angst seems very real.
Book #8 in the Jalna series.
I think of it as a classic book in the series.
I loved the continued storyline with Renny and Alayne, and more about Finch (one of my favorite characters).I love the sense of Jalna as a place (almost as a character!) in these novels.
An example is this conversation between Eden and Alayne:"Yet, in spite of what you say, you can’t quite make me believe that you would have come back here if you had never loved Renny.
Alayne, I honestly believe that Jalna drew you back, whether you realize it or not.”
Three stars for a Jalna book might be four stars for another type, but Book 7, titled merely Jalna, was so good that this tale of, mostly, the next generation pales in comparison. (Perhaps I should have spaced the two more widely.)Several members of the younger Whiteoak generation have troubles and personality blights, including, interestingly enough, The Inheritance, or rather the receiver thereof. Marriages also tumble, lives are hampered, indecision is prevalent, and the seemingly immortal Adeline dies, age 101. But the Whiteoaks survive.As usual, it's a good tale, very involving, with a marvelously drawn setting and deeply examined characters.
This series, Jalna, is one of my all time favourites. This multi-generational family weave an exciting tale over many generations in this series. The series shows the industrialization & urbanization of Canada and yet the story is told in rural Ontario. It also shows how the country moves from being a British Colony to a growing relationship with the States. My favourite elements in the story is the importance of food, love how the author descibes it, and the unique memoriable names used. I read the whole series in one summer, a record for me.
J'avais dévoré tout Jalna quand j'étais adolescent, et si je suis incapable aujourd'hui de me souvenir de chacun des tomes qui composent cette saga gigantesque, je me souviens tout de même que j'avais pris beaucoup de plaisir à découvrir cette famille et ce domaine familial que l'on suit pendant presque un siècle.
Poor ignored and abused Finch. Yet as indifferently and condescendingly as Renny treats him; I can't help being kind of in love with Renny myself. Melodrama, yes, but oddly compelling and characters that recognizably real.
I love this book as much as any in the series--and I don't want to say too much or say why because there are just too many spoilers. I'm ready to start the next in the series.
You cant stop reading these books. You have to know more about the family. The characters are so different and love is a big thing.
You can´t stop reading these books. You have to know more about the family. The characters are so different and love is a big thing.
I think this title is my favorite Jalna book.
I am really hooked on these books. Can't wait to get the next one.
Wow, I remember the Jalna books as being really good. Maybe not everything should be revisited as an adult.
If you like family sagas and romantic complications, you can add a star
