https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/876847.Little_Caesar
It is just a matter of degree separating us, gentle reader.There is gangster slang galore throughout, which tickled me pink.“Well, what’s the dirt?”“...you birds keep quiet.”“...they’ve never been tapped.”“The place is lousy with jack.”“...handle the rods.”“Let the yaps keep their money.”“Don’t spill nothing...”“He’s turned yellow.”“One funny move and I’ll blow your guts out.”“I plugged him.”“He’s ditching the can”“Three dicks downstairs, boss.”Yeah, they sure put a necktie on Gus.“Don’t try to salve me.”“...might give the bulls ideas.”“He can’t stand the gaff.”“She’s making a softie of you.”Softie actually means a normal person.
Ίσως το πιο καθαρόαιμο 'νουάρ' αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα της Παγκόσμιας Λογοτεχνίας, χωρίς να διαθέτει, όμως, τους σπιρτόζικους διαλόγους και την κοσμοπολίτικη ατμόσφαιρα που διακρίνει το 'Γεράκι της Μάλτας' του Χάμετ.
Ο Μπερνέτ πλάθει ένα βασικό χαρακτήρα, τον 'Ρίκο', με στόφα κυνική, αμείλικτη, αποφασιστική και επικίνδυνη, ο οποίος βρίσκεται στο παλμό των γεγονότων της πόλης του Σικάγο, όπου η ποτοαπαγόρευση και το οργανωμένο έγκλημα 'διαβρώνουν' αδυσώπητα το μυαλό και τη ψυχή.
Ανεξάρτητα από αυτό, αποτελεί χαρακτηριστικότατο παράδειγμα 'Γκανγκστερικής' Λογοτεχνίας που εκφράζει το μισαλλόδοξο και ωφελιμιστικό πνεύμα των Η.Π.Α.
των τελών της δεκαετίας του '20.Στο ρόλο του 'Μικρού Καίσαρα', ο Έντουαρντ Τ.
Little Caesar is considered to be the first American gangster novel, highly innovative for the time for its social realism in depicting how a gang was run and organised, their crimes and on-going struggles with the law.
He subsequently converted the book into a screenplay and it was made into a movie (1931), also considered the first classic Gangster film.
In total he wrote over 40 novels and the screenplays for over 50 movies.
The plot for Little Caesar is very linear, telling the story of the rise and fall of a hardnosed, ambitious gangster, who quickly moves up the ranks due to his daring and ruthlessness.
First gangster novel ever - a classicImagine yourself being flown back in time to the late 1930's and dropped of into a dark and lonely alley on the north side of Chicago, commonly known as Little Italy.
This area, ruled by the mob, forms the setting for Little Caesar, world's first gangster novel.Sam Vettori is one of the toughest gang-bosses of Little Italy, but his days are counted.
Cesare Bandello, commonly known a 'Rico', is that guy.
But when a robbery turns bad -a captain of the police gets killed- everyone starts fending for themselves.Little Caesar is simply a masterpiece.
Some people call Little Caesar the first modern crime novel.
I read it for another reason: it was written in 1929 from the point of view of gangsters in Chicago, the site of my next mystery.
I learned a lot I can use in my story.The plot is fairly predictable.
What interested me most was the language.
My story is set in 1924 and Little Caesar was written in 1929, but that’s close enough for me to rely on the language.
One of the gangsters, Rico, was described as wearing a striped suit, “dead black with a narrow pink stripe.
The classic gangster book, which became a famous movie starring Edward G.
This wasn't a particularly well-written book, from a literary point of view, and it seems rather cliched today, but I'm guessing it was more-or-less the genesis of the gangster cliches.
Then he was identified and became a fugitive, eventually ending back in Toledo, where he'd begun his life of crime.
He finds it horrible not to be a big cheese, and eventually becomes one in Toledo again, but at the cost of identifying himself.
Other than for historical reasons, I don't see much point in taking up this book.
What a hidden gem of hardboiled literature. And I learned a couple of new 1920s-era slang words, which is saying something, considering I considered myself quite well-versed in that particular area.
Ενδιαφέρουσα πλοκή και ανάπτυξη χαρακτήρων.Το κείμενο κατά κύριο λόγο είναι γραμμένο σε διάλογο. Θυμίζει έντονα θεατρικό/κινηματογραφικό έργο. Λείπουν οι περιγραφές.Λείπει το μυστήριο. Οι ανακρίσεις. Οι ανατροπές. (καμία σχέση με Αγκάθα Κρίστι)Αποζημιώνει με την ωμή και ρεαλιστική αποτύπωση του υποκόσμου και των ανθρώπων που τον αποτελούν.
I knew this book was a crime novel, focused on the chicago gang/mafia scene, but I expected it to be somehow differentiated from other crime novels.
It tells the story of a gang member named Rico who, after being a part of a heist gone wrong, usurps the gang leader and takes charge of a big-time Chicago gang.
According to some reviews this book was ahead of its time.
Some say that nothing like it had ever been done, so perhaps it would have been more interesting in the time it was written.
Cesare Bandello, dit Rico, modeste membre d'un gang italien de Chicago, est un petit homme simple.
Il n'aime que trois choses au monde : "lui-même, ses cheveux et son revolver".
À l'issue d'un hold-up commis par sa bande, il abat froidement un policier et profite de l'incident pour prendre par la force la tête du gang.
Ambitieux et arrogant, il s'attire vite la haine des bandes rivales et de ses propres hommes.
Ce roman noir est aussi un merveilleux exemple d'écriture objective : un procédé littéraire qui, pour dépeindre la psychologie du personnage, utilise uniquement ses paroles et la description de son comportement extérieur.
The movie is so indelible, and Rico's speech is so evocative of Robinson, that the one seems to be entwined with the other.
Burnett is often praised for his characterizations.
What we learn about Rico is mostly through asides that Burnett throws out every now and then.
There is real humor in the book too, especially the gangster's banquet, where the entertainment consists of whistling loudly, walking on one's hands, and a fistfight.
The book flies by so quickly that it is notable that the actions consists of one crime only.
Much of what we know of gangster fiction comes from this book.
Being adapted into film and being one of the most iconic films of depression era Hollywood gangster films, I think me having seen the film influenced my perceptions as I read this book.
It was a fast, enjoyable read, but what I liked most about the book was the author's use of slang terms used by the gangsters and cops of the day.
If this book were published today, the author would be criticized for not being politically correct, but I think people thought like that back in the day, and I'm sure still do today.
In 1929's Little Caesar, author W.
Much of what was innovative in 1929 may seem quaint today; as a result, it can be easy to miss that Burnett was fomenting a revolution in crime fiction that would culminate 45 years later in the works of George V.
But the highest praise for Little Caesar is that it is still a potent read today.
The story of the young gangster, Rico, moves quickly, but because Burnett values language and character over plot, readers may want to force themselves to slow down.
Little Caesar's language is so skillfully terse that it encourages speedreading.
This was sort of a whim checkout on my online library--I was searching for some interesting fiction and had been talking to my boyfriend about this flick and he had not seen it--so then I thought, "I wonder if their is a book available!?"...and there was.
I was surprised--this was much better than I expected!!
Ran along like a train and you just did not want to put it down--I have the flick in my Netflix queue because the dialogue in the book was easily as snappy as the movie and just as fun.
This novel (which is strikingly different from the great film based on it) is a masterpiece.
Higgins (I think it must have been an influence on The Friends of Eddie Coyle, my favorite novel written in English), Elmore Leonard and Quentin Tarantino.
Told mostly in dialogue, it’s a story of power, hubris, ambition, cowardice and social class, and shows that the world of organized crime is no different than supposedly “legitimate” business.
Aside from the period dialogue, which I found fascinating, it’s a story that could be happening today.
And, of course, it is happening today.
Criminal styleTutti i piccoli imperatori vogliono fare qualcosa per sentirsi grandi. Rico Bandello non è da meno. Criminale di strada dal grilletto facile, aspira a lasciare il segno nella metropoli, Chicago. E ce la fa, diventa un capo banda rispettato dai più. Ma la vita del gangster non è facile, basta una soffiata alla polizia per ritrovarsi un nessuno. E come un nessuno Rico non ci sa stare, a costo della vita. Romanzo seminale e vivace, da cui nel 1931 è stato tratto l'omonimo film con il grande Edward G. Robinson.Voto: 3 ½
"Little Caesar" was, I believe, the inspiration for the 1931 gangster film of the same name, starring Edward G. Robinson. There are a few differences between the book and movie, but the plot is the same, and chronicles the rise of the gangster Rico. It took me a bit to get into the swing of the writing style--things are shown, rather than described, and the motives and thoughts of the characters are not always evident. But, being a fan of this era, and also of 30's gangster movies, I really got into it and enjoyed the lingo and gritty style.
I consider this the best "gangster" novel I've read. It launched Burnett's writing career and set the style for this type of fiction and film. Nobody seems to read Burnett anymore though this one sold well over 5 million copies. First published in 1929, Burnett's prose still crackles when some of the contemporary writing by Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett creaks.My favorite edition is the 1956-7 reissue with the new introduction by Burnett, looking back on how he came to write this watershed genre novel.
Very easy, fast read. As entertaining as a Cable TV movie on a Sunday afternoon when there isn't much else to do. There isn't much substance. There is no lesson to be learned. It's simply a collection of action scenes. Maybe in the 1930s this would have been a gem, but 80 years later, there's not much meat there.
I'm not saying that it's a brilliantly told story, or that it's even a story you haven't heard a million times before, but if you're into '20s gangster lingo, it's the goods, see? Any one of you yeggs turns softie and says differently will be taking a nap under the concrete.
Una obra maestra del hard-boiled: la primera novela negra narrada desde el punto de vista del delincuente. Con una clara inspiración en la vida y obra de Al Capone, narra los bajos fondos de Chicago y del mundo de la mafia.
Feels weird to rate a classic so low, but considering that this came out at almost the same time as Red Harvest, Little Caesar really does not hold up.
You see I read this book and I read it good.
A gangster novel about the struggle for power in 1920’s Chicago.
The story of the rise and fall of a crime boss. I enjoyed the novel, and reading the old vernacular of 1929, The movie with Edward G. Robinson was excellent.
Good story becomes good movie. It is a little different from the movie but still good.
ascesa e declino di rico, piccolo gangster italoamericano nella little italy di chicago. secco e rapido, spietato e senza fronzoli.
