https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150144.A_Moon_for_the_Misbegotten
During one moonlit night, as the love-struck Josie seems to claim him as her own, the drunken Jamie drowns in a wave of self-pity and remorse.
When dawn comes both the moon and the man are gone, leaving Josie with a new challenge to her already broken heart’s capacity for infinite love and forgiveness.Inspired by the unhappy final chapters in the life of O'Neill's ne’er-do-well older brother, James, the play is singular within O'Neill's body of work for its forgiving spirit.
Here, O'Neill grants Jamie absolution as he nears the end of a self-destructive existence.Without a doubt, Josie Hogan is one of the two greatest roles Eugene O'Neill ever wrote for women.
though written around the same time (1941-43), long day's journey into night was first performed upon the stage some nine years after its sequel, a moon for the misbegotten.
the former, eugene o'neill's autobiographical masterpiece, takes place about a decade prior to moon's drama.
jim (or "jamie" in journey - both based on o'neill's real-life older brother), now older, cynical, and nearly beaten by life, has all but succumbed to his alcoholism.
as a fitting and imperfect (if unrequited) complement to jim's character, josie - the tall, well-built, and tough-talking 28-year old irishwoman - is the daughter of phil hogan, jim's lessee.
O’Neill’s plot is hackneyed male fantasy: broken man finds peace in arms of virgin. In telling it, he strikes some pleasing notes of pathos and acceptance.
Throughout these years, he’s looked for purity and innocence—a love that he could truly cherish, and seems to have finally found it in the form of the tall, plain Josie Hogan.What makes this play more beautiful than Long Day’s Journey into Night is the lyrical quality to O’Neill’s dialogue.
But here, there’s also a sense of tangible hope and happiness that manages to shine through, like the moonlight that brings James and Josie together that night on the steps of Josie’s front porch.
I read this book because I was looking for a quote.
There is a source saying the quote I was looking for is from this book.
I don't know whether I should trust my eyes or the book, anyway I didn't find it.
Eugene O'Neill is the grandpa for American serious drama, but this one I really don't like it.
It has too much burden back the scene, too much social and other background.
I prefer plot with more dramatic change like Shakespears etc.
This one, I read it as if it is a play of Schiller's.
That is a good part of this play.
I once found this to be a profoundly moving and sensitive play.
My consciousness has been raised, for it now seems wrongly male-centric.
The story is all about Jamie and his needs, not Josie and hers, which are just as valid.
I judge it from a perspective alien to the time when the work was written and so can be generous with the star parts, but this now seems a male fantasy in which this women is used just like the whores James has always used, only chastely, for forgiveness.
Unlike the whores, Josie doesn't get a penny out of it.
In O'Neill's sequel to Long Day's Journey into Night, Jim is eleven years older, more dependent on the bottle than ever before, and back from the big lights of Broadway for one last chance at love under the moonlight.
After the score is settled, we see the raw Jim, returning to Josie under the moonlight, buried in bourbon and the still of the night, craving just one thing: peace.
As Jim mourns his path, the decisions he's made, his loose ways with women, the death of his family, he looks to Josie to comfort him.
It's a short play, written by Eugene O'Neill in the 1940s about a large, in-control, basically good-willed and good-humored woman named Josie who works beside her father on their farm, though she's actually much stronger than he is.
During a drunken fight with Josie's father, Jim says he's going to sell their land, which propels the Hogans to form a plan that will let them keep their land and get Jim to marry Josie."A Moon for the Misbegotten" wasn't bad and it wasn't good.
But Josie and Jim are unique characters with a story to tell and it's interesting to consider that this play was written in the 1940s, considering some of the language and content.
The play follows the relationship between three characters: Josie; her Irish farmer father, Hogan; and her would be love interest, Jim. The story takes place over a day and involves a scheme between the father and daughter to get back at Jim for selling the farm out from under them.
Throughout the scheme Jim's true intentions are revealed (as well as Hogan's) and there's a nice bit of redemption at the end.
I have to admit that I was a bit bored during Act I, but as their stories progressed, I became more interested, and even more sympathetic toward the flawed characters.
What struck me the most about this play was Josie; the oldest daughter was very big and broad and yet still described and beautiful.
I liked that she didn’t let anybody step on her just because her family didn’t have a lot of money.
I like what the whole thing was suppose to be about but it was very hard to get into it.
The play made me feel happy and glad to be woman because Josie made it great to be a woman, an independent woman especially.
The play also made me feel like I was wondering about the characters.
It showcases a little of the relationship between the two characters, and there's a bit of a payoff for it at the end, but overall it does more harm than good.Ultimately, this is a surprisingly good play, with clever dialogue and some noir-style plot twists.
There are some bizarre Oedipal aspects of the main love story, but the love as a whole comes across as something true and beautiful and not often seen in U.S. fiction.I have only read five O'Neill plays, counting this one, and I have been mostly unimpressed, but Moon for the Misbegotten has convinced me to seek more of his work.
This one stuck with me (I read it in high school) for some reason. Maybe it's because it's a pretty decent portrait of a high spirited but yet pretty anxious woman stuck in a patriarchal and gossipy small town. O'Neill reads as pretty melodramatic to me now, but it was pretty innovative to show characters unable to get out of their miserable circumstances and succumbing to despair. Compare to 1940s Hollywood where even the most dramatic scripts have relatively happy endings.
People just don't write plays like this anymore.A sequel of sorts to "Long Day's Journey," this play focuses on the tenant farmer of the Tyrone family. His daughter, Josie, is one of the all time great roles.
I love Jamie Tyrone in Long Day's Journey into Night, and was really excited when I discovered he got another a play!...yeah, no. Just stick with Long Day's Journey.
the moon offers no comfort for the troubled soul...may he die in sleep !
Without sharing in the characteristic vices of the main characters of the play, there is a lot in this play I am able to relate to as both an observer of the suffering of others and the unhappiness of experiencing the tension between fear and longing when it comes to expanding beyond life as we have experienced it.
The fourth act shows the characters returned as before, only without a great deal of hope that anything will improve, or that there will be intimacy for each other to move beyond the phony relationships and playacting that they have known in their dealings with others.Indeed, the center of this play is the emotionally incestuous relationship between Phil and Josie Hogan.
There is a lot of slightly clumsy plot exposition at the beginning of the play, but maybe a strong production can disguise that.
Tyrone is their landlord and Josie thinks he has agreed to sell their farm to the wealthy neighbour (this is on her father’s say so), so she is plotting revenge, although with confused motivations and emotions.
This could be seen as Tyrone trying to transfer his self-disgust onto the women, but the play itself seems to validate the contrast between Josie and the ‘tarts’, not least by valuing Josie’s virginity as a sign of purity.
While it doesn't live up to Long Day's Journey Iito Night, it is a good play that is able to evoke both humor and a great deal of emotion even if it veers in melodrama at points.
In addition the other character of the play, Tyrone's interactions with Josie manage to be both somber and sensual as only O'Neill can evoke.
In some ways this play is reminiscent of O'Neill's earlier work like Anna Christie in that it demonstrates all of his hallmark talents, namely, a fluid vivacious dialogue complete with immigrant dialects and humor to create a riveting play to read, but it lacks the emotional depth and subtlety of his two masterpieces Long Day's Journey into Night and The Iceman Cometh.
Absolutely amazing. It's incredible that this was technically a sequel for Long Day's Journey Into Night, but that it came out first because O'Neill didn't want LDJiN to be published until decades after his death. I recommend reading Long Day's Journey first and then this, because it really provides a great background for the character of Jim Tyrone. Also, Josie is now one of my favorite fictional characters and she would definitely identify as a sex-positive feminist who could murder any man she pleased.
A drunken farmer and his daughter are threatened when their landlord, who loves the daughter, appears to be preparing to sell the farm out from under them. The daughter plays the landlord and the father plays the daughter. No one wins. Another Eugene O'Neill work where the main players are alcoholic, the relationships are toxic and the play just ends. The interaction between the daughter and her suitor lanlord have some hope for redemption. But both are so broken by life that it ends without resolution. Can't recommend.
A pretty interesting, if of course tragic and bittersweet, follow up to LDJIN and the tangential world of the Tyrones, and again, I was slightly surprised by how much I enjoyed O'Neill's female character, all things considered. (The play is Josie's more than it is Jim's, really, though Jim is the emotional catalyst.) It doesn't all click together quite as thoroughly and naturally as LDJIN does but it's still an excellent example of drama in terms of both craft and emotional heft.
A powerful sequel to O'Neill's powerhouse, "Long Day's Journey Into Night" that head fakes the reader/viewer with broad comedy before stealthily pivoting to wrenching emotional drama. Great work that is worth a read and/or viewing.
would that there were more books like this. A lot said in just a few words with plenty of ideas to think about afterward.
Small tragedy of three people. I need to catch-up on O'Neill's writing more. As a total novice to his work, this was not that catchy for me.
This is probably my favorite of the O'Neill plays I've read so far.
A Moon for the Misbegotten, on the other hand, also had an element of comedy in the bantering back and forth between Josie and her father.
Then this comedic element was seamlessly combined with the deeply tragic story of the guilt and shame of Jim Tyrone and the lost opportunity for love between him and Josie.
Overall, this play was able to combine multiple different themes, examine them in various ways both comedic and tragic, and ultimately produce one of the best plays I've had the pleasure to read.
I saw a revival in 1984 with Kate Nelligan and Ian Bannen on Broadway.
Afterwards Meryl went backstage to congratulate Kate on her performance, and to tell her in person that she had got the role of Susan Traherne in the film adaptation of David Hare's play "Plenty".
A role which Kate had played magnificently in the theater.
I saw Kate Nelligan in 'Plenty' on Broadway at the Plymouth Theatre in 1983/84?
As much as I adore and admire Streep's acting, Nelligan should have had that role.
Nelligan's performance was markedly different from Streep's rather cold and disconnected character.
live on a farm owned by the estate, which Jamie has promised the nasty father he can buy for 2K.
All the sons have run away to get away from the mean father with Josie's help.
The action takes place in one 24 hour period, lots of drinking, and the father claims that Jamie is going to sell the farm to a rich neighbor and wants Josie to get name loaded and in bed so he can catch them and force Jamie to marry her thus getting the farm he wants for himself.
Actually, he knows Josie is in love with Jamie (which she tells J) and is a virgin and wants to give her the opportunity to be with a man.
I read this play as part of a literature class during college. We also read  A Long Day's Journey Into Night . That play speaks stronger to me than this one. Still, along with my favorite O'Neill play,  The Iceman Cometh , this work comprises some of the best American drama I've ever read. O'Neill takes his time, sets up powerful moods, and then plays the richly developed characters off each other again and again. It's heartrending to me, but in a way that feels healthy and profound to take in v
I read this play as part of a literature class during college.
We also read 
A Long Day's Journey Into Night
Still, along with my favorite O'Neill play, 
, this work comprises some of the best American drama I've ever read.
O'Neill takes his time, sets up powerful moods, and then plays the richly developed characters off each other again and again.
The only mistake would be to read such a play and say, "Not in my family." I remain grateful that O'Neill had the courage to put his family demons down on paper in a form that is timeless and meaningful.
Josie is a strong woman who’s not like your average girl: she’s a loud mouth, she drinks, and she does intensive labor for her father.
However, she willingly looks for love from Jim Tyrone, the owner of the property she and her father live on.
I loved how the characters were developed and the different areas of conflict that were constantly going on.
The issues going on in the beginning were more intense than they were in the end, but I found it to be satisfying.

