https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7821828-the-hare-with-amber-eyes
Edmund de Waal, a potter, traces the history of 264 netsuke, small japanese ornaments made from various woods and stones, through their purchase by one of his ancestors in the 1870's through their journey to Paris, Vienna, Tunbridge Wells on to a return to Japan and then back to their final (?) resting place in London.
She says she was expecting "an inward-looking, ruminative meditation on the aftermath of conflict" and "found instead...a bold, gripping, and highly political novel." She further says it's no surprise Elisabeth de Waal couldn't find a publisher right after the end of the war, since the book "deals frankly with anti-Semitism and the lingering stench of the Holocaust."There are already a few reviews on Goodreads.Addendum, Dec. 15, 2013: Trading in GrainFrom my current book on capitalism in western thought, The Mind and the Market by Jerry Muller, I'm coming to understand a little about the place of the grain trade in economics--worthy of an addendum here since the Ephrussi financial empire was founded on the wheat business.By way of background, both Christianity and the Greek city-state looked down not only on money lending but also on commerce.
As the great-grandchild of the Ephrussis, the family whose history the book traces, he is endowed with both a material and a moral advantage.
And as a ceramist, De Waal (commissioned by the V&A to design the new ceramics galleries) literally handles the history of his family by turning it slowly and carefully around and around, paying meticulous attention to all its materiality.
What emerges is a fascinating and very sad story of a Jewish family in the Europe from late 19th Century onwards.All in all, an endearing book with counterbalanced Diaspora and Home Returning stories: the Ephrussis and their Netsuke collection.
De Waal’s descriptive narrative places us there, in the center of it all, at this turbulent time.The scene, along with ownership of the netsuke collection, shifts to pre-World War I Vienna and its social whirl, where another branch of the Ephrussi family has also established a foothold in the banking business; their massive mansion occupies a significant site on the Ringstrasse, and their role in the business and socio-economic establishment seems assured.

The beginning of the book is a bit slow, but it then comes to life with fascinating descriptions of the Ephrussi in Paris during Impressionism or in Vienna during the first part of the 20th century, ending with dramatic events surrounding the Austrian Anschluss into the German Reich.And yet it is hard to feel much sympathy either for this family or for the author.
The awards for the book seem motivated by compassion for the riches-to-rags family history (coupled with a Goodwin bonus), more than for the craftsmanship of the author.
This was an interesting read and a fascinating account of the journey of a group of netsuke through a family history of about 140 years and several generations.
The journey moves from Paris to Vienna, across Europe through Nazism and to Japan.De Waal's family history is fascinating and I was particularly interested in the link to Proust and Great Great Uncle Charles being the model for Swann.
De Waal has an artist's eye and a good way with words.The account of the rise of Nazism, the Anschluss and the dismantling of the family's fortunes give a clear and frightening first hand account of the horrors of the 1930s and the war.
De Waal has put together his family history well.
WunderkammerCon passo da flâneur, come Edmund De Waal scrive a un certo punto del suo libro, l'autore si mette sulle tracce della collezione dei 264 netsuke (come ho avuto modo di imparare durante la lettura, piccole sculture giapponesi di avorio o di legno, non più grandi di una scatola di fiammiferi, raffiguranti divinità, personaggi di ogni tipo, animali, piante) ricevuti in eredità dallo zio Iggie.Ci ammonisce subito, De Waal, e confesso che dopo poche pagine era stato proprio questo il mio primo pensiero, che non si tratterà della storia di un novello «Utz», lo splendido romanzo di Bruce Chatwin, anche se sin dalle prime pagine sembrerà di percepirne l'atmosfera, che non sarà nostalgico e inconsistente, ma che sarà storia dei netsuke, di quei netsuke, e che ne seguirà le tracce a ritroso fino a trovarne l'origine.«Da qualche parte» - scrive De Waal, critico, storico dell'arte e professore di ceramica alla University of Webminster, come recita la nota biografica uno dei più famosi artisti della ceramica inglese - «deve pur esserci una letteratura sul tatto, qualcuno avrà fissato in un diario o in una lettera quel momento fugace, la sensazione provata toccando uno di questi oggetti.
Ao herdar uma colecção de 264 netsuke (**), adquiridos pelo seu antepassado Charles Ephrussi (***), decide seguir o caminho dessas pequenas esculturas que, com a sua família, atravessaram séculos e países.
Os modelos deste quadro são alguns dos amigos de Renoir, entre os quais Charles Ephrussi - o homem com chapéu alto.)_________________________Da lista de 22 diamantes tenho 6 dos 10 já lidos...
No.It is a story of the authors family in a blindly tunnel vision view of how everyone was out to get his Jewish family as they rose to the pinnacle of society in the Austrian empire, survived more or less as well as anyone else did in the 2nd world war and on to his gay uncles exploits in Japan.With such wonderful chapter starters as "It wasn't just Renoir who hated the Jews..." (note no justification for the accusation whatsoever, other than the mute point that allegedly Renoir had a dislike for one of his great uncles).The later chapters of the book had a bit more potential, but it really wasn't up to scratch.
I started out giving Hare with Amber Eyes four stars, but as it settled in, I decided to up it to five stars. This is a very special book – de Waal approaches his extraordinary family history as the artist he is, art, paintings, and especially decorative objects and architecture are all infused with his extraordinary visual and tactile sense.  I don’t use the word “extraordinary” lightly. From the story's beginnings in the shtetl of Berdishev (where the Ukraine meets Poland – not far from the an
If you have read Proust, learning about Ephrussi (and his relationship to his art and to his Jewishness) will give new texture to Swann and the world he and Proust’s narrator move in.
If you haven’t read Proust, this book will probably make you want to.
But as exhilarating as those scenes of Paris mondanity are (and as heartbreaking and infuriating the World War II chapters are – Austria refusing to return property because it was the “first victim” of the Nazis!), it’s De Waal’s contemplative, searching – sometimes meandering – voice that really gets under your skin and lets you see objects and textures through his eyes.
Painter's biography of Marcel Proust in de Waal's book, which had me wondering how many other plagiarisms there might be.
There is also mention of Peter Altenberg having his mail sent to Café Griensteidl, which is wrong.
It was Café Central.
This might sound like nitpicking on my part, but when I read a non-fiction book, I want to be able to trust the facts.
Also, I wasn't too keen on the literary style of the book.
But then, it's non-fiction and de Waal is not a poet, but a ceramicist.
On the other hand, the premise of the book is original and interesting.
The author, Edmund de Waal learned about his family while he tries to track how the small treasures landed in his uncles hands.DeWaal is a descendent of the famous and wealthy Ephrussis family, a European dynasty from the 19th century until WW11.
He visited their lives --the rooms they lived...and takes us on the journey with him.Its interesting, though, I can't help but wonder --am I the only person who first learned of 'the artist' Edmund de Waal, from learning of this book?
To me the most horrific thing was small (like the netsuke the book centres on) - over 600 Jews killed themselves on the night when the Nazis took over in Vienna and went on a rampage of destruction and defilement.
And Iggie finding his way to Japan and a Japanese friend - and houses with verandahs and drinks in the evening and opera and ...And the story itself becomes a netsuke - I feel it curl in on itself - a small beautiful thing that can fit into the palm of my hand - where it opens more and more the longer I hold it.
The Ephrussi were a prominent Jewish family who originated from Odessa Russia.
Along the way they collected beautiful things including a collection of Netsuke which are miniature decorative figures used to hold a money case in traditional Japanese dress.The netsuke were originally collected by De Waal’s great great uncle Charles and were one of the few treasures to escape Nazi theft.
I learned so much history from this book especially the continued persecution of Judaism and Jewish people culminating in World War Two. De Waal describes how tactile the netsuke are.
The story of a love affair, or rather of several.
Can you fall in love with objects?
The key to the Japanese netsuke passed to Edmund de Waal from his great-uncle Iggy is the sensuous pleasure they afford: smooth, small coolness, heavy in the hand for their size.
Edmund de Waal follows the trace of the collection of 264 netsuke from Belle Époque Paris to Vienna, to Tunbridge Wells, to Tokyo.
It is also the story of how he searched, the doubts and obsessions and worries that accompany his research.
Starting with part three and WW2, then when the reader follows the collection to Japan and finally the brief conclusion of the book, these last 100 odd pages are wonderful.
After reading this book i really am not interested in just looking at a netsuke, but also in holding one or several.
For him the netsuke was merely a collection of valuable objects.********************************Through page 157: The book begins to offer what I am looking for when Charles gives the collection to his cousin Victor as a wedding gift.
The author practically attempts to find every painting in the room where Charles kept the netsuke collection.
De Waal, upon inheriting the collection of tiny sculptures, feels he has also been handed a responsibility, both to them and the people who have owned them.
Here De Waal breathes life into Impressionist Paris.Through Charles, the instigator of the collection of netsuke (and, I think, Edmund's great-great-great-uncle) we are given a window in to what it was to be in the Impressionist inner-circle, we get a feel for who they were as people.
One instance I enjoyed was when, 'Charles bought a picture of some asparagus from Manet, one of his small still lifes, where a lemon or rose is lambent in the dark.
I began this a couple of days ago and I'm entranced.
The Hare with Amber Eyes is the history of a collection of miniature 18th Japanese figurines called netsuki and the biography of the various owners of the collection.
Already, the first half of the book is proving to be art history of the best kind, accessible and beautifully written, the kind which makes the reader pause and reflect, the kind which urges the reader to find out more about the period, the kind which inspires her to pick up those glossy coffee table books and to go through them finally, not just to view the prints but to garner additional information from the text.
This book is Edmund De Waal's stubbornly pursued search for the history of a branch of his own family, namely the Jewish-Ukrainian Ephrussi.
I can imagine that this is different for other people and it is rather the expression of the figure at that moment that appeals: the hare that scares up, the turtles who want to get over each other as quickly as possible, the fisherman who is unhappy because of his small catch, and so on.Regardless of those figures, it is the family history of the Ephrussi that is paramount in this book.
It builds slowly as he paints in the family's background, and how Charles Ephrussi collected the netsuke that bind the entire narrative together, but as he moves toward 1900 there are more records, and the individuals take on shape and color and personality.This is also the story, in a microcosm, of how Jews gained the right to do business and even own land in the latter 1800s, some (like the Ephrussi) becoming quite wealthy.
Edmund de Waal explores the history of a collection of netsuke which he has inherited, in the course of which he traces the history of his Jewish ancestors from 19th century Odessa through fin de siècle Paris, secessionist Vienna, two world wars, Nazi persecution and American-occupied Japan.
At the core is a very moving story about how the netsuke survived the second world war and returned to the family afterwards, and perhaps the book was worth it for this anecdote alone.
Some other parts were moderately interesting, but I found my attention waning at times and the netsuke themselves were insufficiently interesting or varied to hold the whole thing together.
This is a delicate work detailing rather amazing figurines in some of recent history's more nefarious climates.
He explores his family's success, constantly aware of the menace which surrounds such.
Pieces of tiny sculptures lie at the heart of this quest.
The pieces are Japanese in origin.
The author explores the means by which they came to Europe and his family's possession.
Events are described with wry appreciation.
An appreciation for family and ancestry is galvenized as the journey returns home.
As does a cultured appreciation of the diminutive masterpieces.
Sulle tracce della storia della collezione di minuscole statuine giapponesi (i “Netsuke”) ereditata da uno zio Viennese, ma inaugurata da un precedente parente a Parigi alla fine dell’800 (Charles Ephrussi, di una famiglia ebrea di origini Ucraine che metterà in piedi un vero e proprio impero bancario tra Odessa, Parigi e Vienna), l’autore, Edmund De Waal, non uno scrittore ma un artista, ceramista e esperto d’arte, inglese di origini olandesi la cui nonna (che fu anche poetessa e corrispondente epistolare di Rilke) era una Ephrussi (ed è un personaggio chiave, oltre che uno dei più affascinanti del libro), ricostruisce non solo una storia della dinastia (nascita e caduta di un vero impero economico), ma anche un più ampio affresco della società parigina, e poi di quella viennese (e poi di quella di Tokyo dopo la guerra e la sconfitta , ove per lungo tempo si ristabiliranno i Natsuke riavvicinandosi alle loro origini) attraverso più generazioni.
Sarebbe potuto essere un affresco stupendo di un mondo di cui parlarono Joseph Roth e Musil (tanto per citare i due scrittori più grandi che conosco), invece ho letto un elenco di nomi e di date, di arredamenti e di abbigliamenti che non mi hanno lasciato nulla, salvo poi ritrovare coinvolgimento nella parte finale, quella più tragica in cui si racconta il triste epilogo della famiglia Ephrussi.Ciò che mi è piaciuto di questo libro, che può essere un diario, un saggio storico e dell’arte, una saga familiare, è il filo seguito dallo scrittore, il legame tra storie ed oggetti.
(No doubt, the author - a remarkable individual in his own right - embarks on a quest and drags the reader along...) A family history?
(Having said that, I'm sure plenty of readers will criticize the author's efforts to do too much, or to let himself dominate the story.
It's highly personal, but appropriately so, and the author's perspective and voice both animate and drive the story....) Indeed, it's like a leisurely personal tour through a remarkably eclectic museum unbound by conventional temporal, thematic, or geographical limitations.
If "The DaVinci Code" is the McDonald's equivalent of a book that incorporates these two themes, then "Amber Eyes" is the four-course French meal complete with palette-cleansing sorbet.The book is a biography of de Waal's inherited collection of more than 200 pieces of Japanese netsuke, small carved figurines of ivory and wood (nowadays you might see knock-offs of these in pawn shops and flea markets but the real deal is, as we learn here, worth a small fortune).The netsuke tie together the story of de Waal's family history, as the author follows what happens to the pieces over the course of 140 years by sharing vivid details of the inhabitants of the three rooms in which the netsuke found their home.The first is the Parisian study of Charles Ephrussi, an art critic and writer who hung with the likes of Impressionist painters Renoir and Degas (and who owned an enormous collection of their art at one time).
Throughout the work the author weaves themes of art and collecting with social changes.
Charles Ephrussi collected netsuke, later turning to Empire art, perhaps in an effort to appear more “French,” although he never ceased being a Russian citizen.
The late 1900’s, partly as a consequence of the Dreyfus Affair, became a time of fierce anti-Semitism in France, a difficult period for the family.The scene then shifts for forty years, until 1938, to Vienna.
Are the netsuke just a vehicle for this narration, the real focus of the story being the family of fabulously rich Jewish financiers and the pervasive anti-Semitism of Europe over the course of two hundred years or so?
In realtà dei netsuke si parla poco: ricevere i netsuke in eredità rinfresca all’autore il ricordo, non piacevole né consolatorio, della storia della sua famiglia, che sente l’urgenza di conoscere meglio.
Immagino lo straniamento di quest’uomo che da Londra va in queste città a guardare le case nelle quali la sua famiglia aveva abitato, riconoscendo con emozione il logo di famiglia nell’inferriata di una casa ormai completamente ristrutturata: aguzzando l’orecchio interiore per ascoltare il suono dei tempi andati.
Sono stata di recente a Vienna e davanti a molti palazzi ci sono piccole piastre di ottone con scritti nomi di persone che vi avevano abitato, campo di sterminio e data di morte.
Thank you.The reader can tell how close this story is to the writer’s heart - tracing his paternal genealogy through the turbulence of Europe in the 1900s, in which his ancestors gained and lost a fortune.
The netsuke provide a story peg but no great revelation.
Again, it’s because it feels like an explication - with particular details - but with little emotional investment on the part of the reader.
It’s not until the writer himself has some personal knowledge of the people he’s talking about that they gain shape.
