https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38500.Women
Misogyny, misogyny, misogyny....that's all everyone sees.
Few see the true character of Hank, only the brutal sexual descriptions, the words beginning with "C" and his practice of "mounting" whatever drunken soul may have wandered into his piss-stained bed.
It tells the story of the common man, overburdened by the memories of his abusive youth, beleagured by his own unsightly appearance and wallowing in the depths of alcoholism.
This is not a story of a crude womanizer.
This is the story of pain and consistency, his life moving along with each labored step, unwillingly.
It is the story of rejection, acceptance and our own inherent ability to survive without really trying.
And I didnt want her roly poly, blue eyeshadow wearing self to roll down the aisle causing an accident.(To be fair, she probably wouldnt have rolled, just gotten stuck.)So this ass starts screaming at me "Don't touch my purse, don't steal my purse!"So embarassing...So later that day....I bought a really sweet corset and some cute underoos at the Victorias Secret in Vegas.
our last day in Vegas, we were in some store and there was this book called "Drinking , Smoking and Screwing"."Yes, yes and yes", I thought to myself.Didn't even read the description, I just immediately bought it.Lucky for me it was a collections of short stories from awesome writers about the title subjects.And an exerpt of Charles Bukowski's "Women" was one of them.He stood out to me because he writes like he speaks.
The leading crazy lady's name is Lydia. I can relate. Charles Bukowski has a way of betraying you and making you laugh in spite of yourself; disgusting you and then melting your heart with one tender and insightful paragraph you do not expect, at a moment that doesn't seem appropriate in context to that which he is speaking. It is impossible to love Bukowski and impossible not to love him. This book is just a delight, if you can absorb it. He is mushy soft at his core.
boooooorrrrrr-iinnnnnnnnnnnnnggggI loved Bukowski as a young teenager and now that I go back and re-read I can only imagine that I enjoyed the truth and rawness at that age when I was getting lied to everywhere abt. the relations between men and women. NOW the misogyny is effing boring. Like the crap I see every effing day. I find it interesting that some people find it so shocking because I know at least 10 men that feel this way abt. women. OVER IT. Don't wanna read abt. it now.
I cannot believe I read the entire thing in 3 days.
In fact, it made it's rounds through at least 8 people I know of, and it's probably still making the rounds.
You start it and Bukowski goes into the most sexist, vulgar, repulsive descriptions of the main character's relationship to women, but something makes you keep reading.
I stopped at several points wondering, "why the hell am I reading this?", yet I went on.
The main character is an upper middle-aged man.
Did I say this was vulgar?
It's the worst and best reading you've ever done.
بوكوفسكي ورواية تحمل اسم (نساء) حسنًا ماذا ننتظر؟ :) هل ثمة جديد؟يكمل تشيناسكي حياته الفوضوية التي يوثقها بوكوفسكي - عن نفسه طبعًا - حيث يستمر تنقّله الوظيفي من عملٍ لعمل ولا أعلم ماهذا الحظ الذي يقابله لأجل الحصول على كل هذه الفرص؟ ربما إنخافض الأجور وقبوله بأي عمل يمكنه من ذلك!!...
نعم هي سيرة روائية لكن ربما بوكوفسكي كان لينجح أكثر في توثيق سيرته الروائية كلها في (روايتين) فقط بين رواياته الـ(6) رغم أنه قد تبقى لي منها (3) لكن لو كانت كسابقاتها (نساء جنس / شراب خمر) فلا جديد إلا إن كان "سيلعب" على (تقنية) النص فهذا كذلك لن يشفع له.أنا هنا لا أعترض على صراحة بوكوفسكي عن النساء فهذه حقيقة كل أنثى قابلها فلماذا أعترض؟..
It’s a matter of style in the face of no chance at all.”And that’s what he is.The declarations and codifications of his writing seem to baffle him.
"What do you think of women?" she asked."I'm not a thinker..."Chinaski seems to be aware of the vanishing-point that is the saturation of hate-ideology, and in the face of it, he places himself, not with any Saint George-like ideal of conquering it, but at least if he can just…be…him… that’s style in the face of no chance at all.
It’s as though Bukowski has a series of great poetic works of character insight, and he strings them together to create a book."I write.
Henry Chinaski es de los mejores personajes que he leído.
La forma en la que durante todo el libro se va cuestionando el comportamiento, o el ser de las mujeres, relacionando sus múltiples encuentros sexuales con una especie de investigación indirecta en donde la conclusión resulta que cada mujer es un mundo....
Un desarrollo de personaje que se ve notablemente solo en las últimas páginas del libro, pero que fue de las mejores partes, y un toque increíble.Una lectura de todo mi gusto, que leí rápido y con mucho interés.
Uno de los mejores libros que he leído.
I didn’t like to shave and I didn’t like long beards, so I scissored myself every two or three weeks.
My eyesight was bad but I didn’t like glasses so I didn’t wear them except to read.
Like flies on the same turd.Women come and go, an ensemble of women is exotic and bizarre but all of them are thoroughly unhappy.
Emptiness swallows existence and human comedy is hardly distinguishable from human tragedy…I was glad I wasn’t in love, that I wasn’t happy with the world.
I like being at odds with everything.
People in love often become edgy, dangerous.
They lose their sense of perspective.
They lose their sense of humor.
In the words of a reviewer on Amazon, "First off, this book will offend people.
It will probably offend you." This book hit a little too close to home (you could say I've met and loved this man in real life).
At first, reading it was easy; the language is not complex and the material is the definition of "page-turner" - sex, love, drugs, alcohol - in raw, unapologetic realism.
Chinaski does another poetry reading, beds (and then rapes, though strangely enough he does not call this what it is) a new woman half his age, breaks another woman's heart...
Like confessionals, Bukowski mythologizes his personal life, but let's not forget that it also has elements of fancy.
But of course his writing is not for everyone and he didn’t expect everyone to like what he was doing to literature.Just as there were no restrictions for confessionals on choosing a subject matter, Bukowski weren’t tied up with restrictions either.
He wrote about anything he liked and his subject matters were most often himself and the things he intimately knew.His writings (at least in case of Women) are a declaration of loss, of dependence, of guilt, of anguish, suffering, and his revenge on life.
I had a thing for that letter, and wanted to devour the words of the man who wrote it.I gulped down “Women” quickly because that was the type of book it was.
While reading Bukowski's “Women”, I started to wonder about the meaning-of-it-all, but had to quickly stop myself from this questioning, and keep on reading.
In the words of a friend of mine, "life means nothing and everything, but mostly nothing.” Bukowski emphasizes on the nothingness.
I didn’t want to be interesting, it was too hard.
I didn’t care.”For the most part, this book was not rich in context.
Would I read more Bukowski?

I feel stupid getting into Charles Bukowski so much as a 43 year old guy with kids, a house, and a job.
Well, Bukowski's twilight years, according to Women, function like The Bachelor except sometimes he can't get it up and just about all the women he meets are sad and bonkers.
He's scared, amused, almost waiting for the other shoe to drop, if you will, like he's lost his young man's anger, wants to live in peace, but, Jesus, these women keep sending these letters, and...who wouldn't?
Women seems to me the most mature and quotable Bukowski.
He worked for decades in factories, in the post office, in a variety of odd jobs he talks about in Factotum and Post Office and other books, so when it came to being part of the literary world, Bukowski just found it silly and self-important.
This is how he thinks he can get away with the abuse, but by now I am not quite buying it as interesting.So why did I like Women at all?
I guess because he does tell the truth, and writes that truth in a still interesting way in places:“I liked to drink, I was lazy, I didn’t have a god, politics, ideas, ideals.
Reading "Women" is like watching a porno. At first, all that wanton sex is exciting and seductive and yeah, kind of funny too; then it starts to get repetitive and a little disturbing; pretty soon you're disgusted with all of it: sex and women and men and most of all, yourself. You promise that you'll never watch again but, deep down, you know you will. You dirty bastard.
Non la vado a cercare, la volgarità. Aspetto che mi venga spontanea. Lo sapevo che il vecchio sporcaccione con questo libro mi avrebbe fatta incazzare, sì, e anche che poi mi avrebbe fregata.essere soli non è mai stato giusto. A volte si sentiva bene, ma non sembrava mai giustoAccidenti a lui, dannato ubriacone!Non volevo invecchiare male, volevo semplicemente dare le dimissioni, morire prima dell'arrivo della morte.
میخوای بخواه نمیخوای هم به سلامتمن هم تا شصت درصد داستان تحملش کردم ولی صفحه به صفحه جلو رفتم و هیچ اتفاق جدیدی نیفتاد...چرخه ی آشنایی، همخوابگی، الکل، خیانت ....و زنها امدند و رفتند و من حسابشون از دستم در رفت واین آمد و رفت ها این قدر سریع و پشت هم تکرار شد که اگه تفاوتی هم بینشون بود کم کم از بین رفت و فقط یک چیز باقی موند: جنسیت!
Women is definitely not Bukowski at his finest, nevertheless, the book has its merits.
In this book, we get a slightly different glimpse at Henry Chinaski, Bukowski's alter ego, and once we get past the same scenery in which the only thing that changes are the sets of legs spread before him, we are offered a look into a life of a man who is nearing his top game (in term of recognition) while being torn inside.
I view it more like a momentary break, a pause on his path towards self-destruction that marred Bukowski's real life.
I knew little about Bukowski going into this one but it didn't take very long to figure out that the antihero Hank Chinaski is actually the alter ego of Bukowski.
Does this story mirror Bukowski's actual sex life?
Do women actually have so little self-respect as to allow themselves to be used in this manner by a coarse and brash man who obviously has no respect for them, possibly even hates them?
I was starting to hate both Bukowski/Chinaski and the women who slept with him!But in the last half of the book, Bukowski starts to put everything together.
Repulsive.There it is, my one word review of Women.As I'm reading the book, hating it more and more, I'm wondering how I can ever review it.
I decided I'd just do an alphabetical 26-word review, starting with "atrocious" and ending with "zany" with each word a representation of what I hated about the book.Way too much work.So why didn't I like Women?
No one I know has the guts to rip himself open and throw himself on the table for pedantic lubbers like me to criticize.And I also realized that Charles Bukowski is the only writer I've ever read who can make me laugh out loud.
I enjoyed this novel.
Though it's thick, I found it an easy read, the type of book that I could dip into at any time.
Bukowski's sense of humor is blunt and often dirty, which I kind of appreciate.
In a way I was reminded me of another recent novel I read, Permanent Obscurity by Richard Perez.
Both books have a raw and ugly style, both quite funny.
Bukowski's Women ends with Henry, the main character losing control a little.
So the end result is a realistic portrait.
Anyway, I enjoyed this book, and I would recommend it to others.
I'll sum it up for you.Drink, fuck, drink, horse race, drink, driiiiiiiink, write, drink, drink, watch a boxing match, give a reading, drink, fuck, drink, fuck, fuck, sleep, drink, write, drink, drink, fuck, drink, fuck, give a reading, drink, fuck, drink, fuuuuuuuck, drink, drink, fuck, fuck, drink, fuck.These are the names of the ladies in his life: Lydia, Katherine, Joanna, Nicole, Debra, Tanya, Gertrude, Hilda, Iris, Mercedes, Liza,and Tammie.
(There are others; I missed a few.)There is some remarkable insight hidden within these pages.
What I liked most is the crude honesty and the brutal humanity.
"That's why I write."
This would have to be one of my favorite books of all time, right up there with House of Leaves.Basically this is autobiographical fiction about a brief period in Bukowski's life.
His alcoholism meant he ended up with other drunks and addicts, or women who became frustrated with his drinking.Strange as it may seem, I related to this book more than anything I've read before.
I'm always looking for books that can put my own feelings into words.
He couldn't believe it when beautiful or kind women had an interest in him.
So I think the book ended rather sweetly.
Women is not a dull book!
I know I am not the only one who has a love and hate relationship with Bukowski.
Partly because he was so relatable-in a sense that my (our) feelings and thoughts were articulated and was better put into words in his writings.
To feel degraded just because we thought we deserve better-although we will never talk about it to any one because that's how egotistical we are.
Bukowski is so real.
So real that I feel so close to him.
:)There are parts in this book which some would find gross, that women are objectify-which I know is the sign to hate him.
How do I rate a book on here with 6 stars?When I was a teenager this book was the first dirty novel I read and it was the point I became obsessed with Bukowski.
Now reading this many years later I still love this book, it still feels really dirty too.
I might be a man with a 5-year-old child wired to the ceiling and gagged, hanging by her ankles as I slowly sliced her to pieces."
I got this from a friend and read it at an age when guess I could have liked it - I didn't (like it that is, that's what a GoodReads one star is - Didn't like it). Everything that positive reviews list as reasons to like this book are the same ones that makes it utterly uninteresting to me. Never got it, had it been today there's no way I would have finished this. But I learned from the experience and won't ever pick up anything else by him.
Mas excetuando Lydia, com quem tem um relacionamento fortemente conturbado, e Sara, Hank, pese embora a forte atração que sente por cada uma delas, não quer ou não se deixa apaixonar.
Por outro lado, o seu exacerbado alcoolismo não deixava espaço para que um possível relacionamento viesse a evoluir.
Mas Henry continuava a beber e pela sua cama ia-se deitando um género específico de mulheres: jovens, apenas, entre os 20 e os 35 anos e que tivessem belas pernas e ancas.
Mas, até que ponto, pode um homem, independentemente da sua idade, suportar as causas e os efeitos de uma personalidade que vive em função de um mais profundo e patético narcisismo?
اما نویسنده خیلی رندونه و زیرجلکی خودش رو می‌بنده به ناف شخصیت اصلی رمان تا با روایت شخص اولش باعث بشه صداقتش تو رو بگیره و دیگه هی مجبور نباشی در مورد شخصیتش قضاوت کنی.
اگه بخوای داستان رمان رو توی یه خط، تعریف کنی قصه‌ی نویسنده‌ای هست که شرح هم‌خوابگی‌هاش رو با ده‌ها زن ریز و درشت تعریف می‌کنه.
شاید برای همین هم هست که «هرکسی» می‌تونه تیکه‌هایی از خودش رو توی شخصیت اصلی رمان ببینه...رمان قرار نیست لذت‌بخش باشه.
Reading Bukowski reminds me of what it’s like to human, warts and faults and pettiness and bad breath and all.
He never fails to disturb me, and I like that.“Women” was released in 1978, and stars Bukowski’s semi-autobiographical alter-ego, Henry Chinaski.
It’s the nature of his writing to expose the low end of life.
It’s not heavy drug use, mind you….we’re talking joints and speed for the most part, and it seems natural given the late '70s time frame of the book and the disparate cast of characters that Chinaski/Bukowski interacts with.
