https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5292853-hunting-ground
Re reading books that you love and have been with for years is the best. Charles has been one of my loves and always will be. Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Every once in a while, it feels so good to jump out of the romance genre and jump back into some Urban Fantasy/PNR. Patricia Briggs is one of my go to authors when it comes to these types of books. After listening to the first book in this series (Cry Wolf), I decided to do book 2 in audio as well. I’m happy I did. It was fast listening and the narrator did a great job voicing Anna and Charles. Hunting Ground takes place in Seattle. If you’ve read the Mercy Thompson series, you remember that bo
It was fast listening and the narrator did a great job voicing Anna and Charles.
I like that, but at times it can feel a little overwhelming.
I liked some of the new characters, but I did miss Asil from book one.
There was some action and even some mystery, but what I loved most about this story was seeing the growth in Anna and Charles relationship.
I can’t tell if I like it as much as the Mercy Thompson books- I really love those.
With each and every book I’m liking it more and more.
I loved book 1 so much that I just could NOT wait to read this instalment.
And if someone tells you that this is total BS, that I hated book 1 and swore a blood oath to stay the fish away from this series for the rest of the entirety of my entire life, well that someone is completely full of crappity crap.
And to be completely clear: no, the Corruptor of Young Naïve Innocent Souls (CoYNIS™) named Angela did NOT put a gun to my lovely little head to force me to read this book.
Didn't leave much of a review the first time I read Hunting Ground (see below) so I'll add a bit more now.Events pick up about four weeks after Cry Wolf, with Anna and Charles being sent off to Seattle for a conference/discussion about the Wolves coming out to the public.
Anna and Charles go through some bumpy times early in their relationship, since their wolf-half decided their mating before they really got to know each other.
I've already starting listening to the next installment.Review first time through:I'm loving Charles and Anna a little more with each book.
One of the few missing pieces in my ALPHA AND OMEGA/MERCY THOMPSON series reading has popped up as a Kindle sale!
Charles (an Alpha werewolf who acts as his father Bran's enforcer rather than being the head of a pack) and his mate Anna, an Omega werewolf, are sent on a mission to Seattle, to a meeting of Alpha werewolves from England, Spain, France and elsewhere.
Meanwhile the werewolf meetings are going off the rails, primarily because of one French werewolf with a long and bloody history.Patricia Briggs slowly builds the tension in this story, intertwining the mystery with the development of her characters.
3 Omega stars   “She was his and he hers.”     “Women are the bloodthirsty sex. We get the reputation, but it is only because the women stand behind us, and say, 'Kill it. Squish it.”  One month after they are mated and married, werewolves Anna and Charles must travel to Seattle to oversee a conference where the wolves discuss the issue of becoming open to the public. While they are there, hired vampire assassins begin attacking the Omega's, human and wolf.This one took me a while to get throug
I'm normally a huge Patricia Briggs fan, but for some reason this series isn't hitting it for me like the Mercy Thompson series did.
What I loved: -Anna and Charles: I think the development of the relationship between these two characters is the only reason I will continue to read this series.
Together and separately, Anna and Charles are some of the more interesting and unique characters I've read in a long time.
I suspect that finding an unoccupied bedroom will be easier.”  -The world-building: I am constantly wowed at the incredible job this author has done in creating this unique urban fantasy setting.
But what I loved about the book was the romance, which pretty much centered around Anna and Charles getting to know each other and learning to trust each other, after their wolves had decided to mate.
I love Anna and Charles together and I especially like reading Charles’ point of view about it.
The way Briggs describes the mating bond -the intimacy of knowing and feeling what your mate is going through- is so great it almost makes you sad that us humans aren’t capable of such a thing on such a level.
Hunting Ground continues with Charles and Anna, newly mated and working on their relationship.   They are sent by the Marok to attend a meeting in Seattle with werewolves around the world. Bran, the Marok and Charles father has decided to publicly announce to the world the existence of wolves. The gathering is to discuss the idea and persuade the packs that this is a good idea.I love seeing this mystical and magical world that the author has created evolving with the introduction of new and inte
The gathering is to discuss the idea and persuade the packs that this is a good idea.I love seeing this mystical and magical world that the author has created evolving with the introduction of new and interesting and total believable characters…the wolf packs from countries outside America and their dynamics and of course we get to see the regulars as well.This is a fast paced, action paced story filled with some unexpected twists and revelations – I was certainly kept guessing!!!!!!It’s lovely to see Anna coming into her own and her developing relationship with Charles’s pack.
When Anna is attacked by vampires using pack magic, the kind of power only werewolves should be able to draw on, Charles and Anna must combine their talents to hunt down whoever is behind it all--or risk losing everything ..."--Page 4 of cover.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوازدهم ماه دسامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: شکارگاه - کتاب 2 از محموعه آلفا و امگا؛ نویسنده: پاتریشیا بریگز؛ مترجم: آیدین کبیری؛ تهران، آذرباد، 1395؛ در 380 ص؛ شابک دوره: 9786006225579؛ شابک جلد 1: 9786008537014؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 21 مآنا لاتام نمی‌دانست زندگی تا چه حد می‌تواند پیچیده باشد، تا اینکه تبدیل به یک گرگینه شد.
آنا و چارلز داوطلب شده ‌اند تا در نشست رهبران، پیشنهاد جنجالی برن را ارائه کنند، پیشنهادی که براساس آن باید در نهایت، هویت اصلی‌ خویش را برای انسان‌ها فاش کنند.
I will freely admit I like the scary hero that everyone fears, but the one woman who looked into his heart and feels safe with him, and is not afraid to love him.
The suspense was done cleverly, because you look at the key players, think someone looks likely, but look away to focus on someone else, and then you realize that things aren't the way they seem.
Naturalistic characters with identifiable motivations, enough grit to keep my heart beating fast, a heroine whose strength comes from within, and who grows right in front of my eyes, for Anna is a phoenix who rose from the ashes.
*** 4.25 ***Read with the MacHalo Freaks buddies!
The best book of the Mercy Thompson series yet.
We are back with Charles and Anna, newly matted and trying to learn each other's ways, when a conference of the strongest leaders of the Wolf packs around the world meets in Seattle and our newlyweds go to it as hosts.
From the first moment they step onto Seattle soil their lives are in danger.
Well , read it, you guys, it is worth it!
Recommend it to all who love shapeshifters and vampires, a bit of internal pack politics, and compelling main characters.
Have fun reading!
Charles and Anna are still really new in their relationship here, so we get a lot of time with them figuring it out.
At the same time we get to know Charles and Anna even better, and watch their relationship grow, which is my favorite part.Anna still has some issues with the abuse she suffered at the hands of her old pack.
Even worried about that, Anna does it anyway - because she loves Charles.Seeing their relationship grow, and deepen, is a true joy.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads.HUNTING GROUND had a lot of interesting morsels in it from both a mythology and a story standpoint; readers get to learn about fae, vampires and dragons (!!!), witness firsthand how Bran’s decision to bring the werewolves out to the public came to be, and observe the continuing evolution of Anna & Charles’ relationship.
I liked how the author added a historical element to HUNTING GROUND by putting her own werewolf spin on King Arthur, although I do wish that Latham hadn’t been coveted by yet another certifiable shifter so soon after leaving her first pack.
I think my favorite part was seeing Anna and Charles really work as a team and then seeing Anna come into her own a bit.
I really like her character growth so far, and seeing her and Charles work on their relationship really made me enjoy this one.
I think Patricia Briggs is seriously such a fantastic author, and I cannot wait to see what is in store next in both this series and Mercy Thompson.
Also in case your curious, I think I prefer Mercy Thompson as a main character out of Briggs' books, but I love the side characters in this series like Bran!
Not sudden nor perfect, tripping and stumbling along the way trying to find the right step and balance to their relationship.Anna turned Charles’s world up side down, and he doesn’t know how to cope with everything that he feels for her.
"I keep feeling like we're doing it wrong," she said.
I have a feeling that in time she will overcome her fears and become even stronger, like Charles said, Rome wasn’t built in a day and I can’t wait to see who Anna becomes.
Charles doesn’t enforce his straight upon her so he can protect and feel good about it.
Junk food for the brain.
The series follows Anna and Charles after they meet in the first book and find out they are mates, then they must work their way through learning to accept the mating bond and work out their life together.Anna was abused by her first pack which features heavily in the story as she tries to overcome her emotional scars.
Once in Seattle, Charles and Anna meet up with the local wolf pack and Dana, a Fae who is helping keep the peace with the wolves for a price.
It also shows Charles and Anna's developing relationship.
Part of what I like about this series is that the relationships are more real, Anna has been through 3 years of trauma an just because she has found a mate doesn't mean her psyche is immediately fixed and she is shiny and new again.
As for Charles *dreamy sigh* I am sooo in love with Charles it is always the silent and deadly ones that get to me!Oh and Moira (the blind witch) and Tom from one of the PB's novella's are in this as well!
I'm too bored to write a full review right now so...1) Loved the story.
The relationship keeps developing between Charles and Anna and I think that it's the first time I've been able to actually see so clearly how a relationship progresses in a series.2) In this book we have fairies, vamps, trolls, wolves.
All the nice nasties I love in my books.3) I wanted more Bran!:(4) For some reason I didn't like Ric at all.5) I loved Moira and Arthur.6) The book was fast paced and well-written.
I wasn't bored for a second.7) Liked the mythology twist.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]1 re-readBR with Aly!!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
The Alpha and Omega series gives us a change to discover much more about Pack politics and to see how issues are resolved in the world of the werewolves.Bran has decided that it is time for the werewolves to make their presence known to the general public, he knows that they aren't going to be able to remain hidden for much longer with all this modern technology and he knows it is better to come out on their own terms before they are discovered.
Two words - Charles Cornick.
Charles and Anna are sent to Seattle on behalf of Bran to negotiate the “coming out” of the werewolf population.
The talks are to be mediated by a fae Gray Lord, Dana.There was a huge cast of characters in this book and it was interesting to learn about the wolf packs from different countries.
Anna is learning how to be an Omega wolf and what it entails.
The wolves are also learning the power of an Omega.
I loved watching Anna transform from a “scared rabbit” to an assertive, protective wolf.
I loved the stolen moments that Anna and Charles shared.
4th read: 8-14February 2016Buddy read with Maru3rd read: August 2014Buddy read with Jo2nd read: 13-15 NovemberThis is one of the best series I've read this year, I am so glad that I did :)I can't say more then that I really love Charles, Anna, Bran and all the other secondary characters. The confidence that Anna manages to regain slow and steady is another of the things I enjoyed reading. 1ast read: July 2012
But she has come so far in such a short time and yet it doesn’t seem like she suddenly grew a pair and is capable of manhandling all the Alpha werewolves at once.
She’s grown in a gradual way that makes her success at getting over her past a personal accomplishment and one that opens opportunities for her to love someone....someone like Charles.What I love about this series is the romance.
It’s not perfect where Anna and Charles find each other and fall desperately in love with each other and they love happily ever after.
It’s just great to read.And then there’s all the wolf politics!
★★★★★ Wow!
All I can say is this book is cool.
I just love “Anna Latham Cornick, mate of Charles Cornick, Omega of the Aspen Creek Pack.
Wolf.
Sister.
Daughter.
Lover.
Beloved.” Remember, knowing a person’s name is powerful magic.
And that is all the hint of this plot you are going to get out of me!
This one is delicious.
Plus, enough realism in the human relationship between two lonely, insecure souls verses their newly established mate-bond to be fascinating.
Not to mention, the cover actually looks like Anna and Brother Wolf.
I hadn’t read the short story that kicked things off.
But with that in the past, I can appreciate this second book for exactly what it is.I always love urban fantasy that includes the Fae. They are far superior to vampires & werewolves in my reading experience.
And this story contains just enough Fae elements to keep me happy.Then there is Charles and Anna’s relationship.
This seems to me to be much more interesting—how do two people work out their differences and make a relationship work?A very satisfying urban fantasy and I will definitely be moving on to the third installment soon.
Thumbs up
See troll here: http://openplac.es/trips/the-fremont-...CHARACTERS: Charles and Anna and a mix of secondary characters (including Moira and Tom, introduced in the prequel Seeing Eyes, a short story in the Strange Brew anthology).
I was on the edge of my seat.Omega Kicks Ass: In this book, Briggs further develops Anna's character.
I sympathized with protective Charles, especially when he (his brother wolf) was sooo upset after (view spoiler)[ Anna, Moira, and Tom were attacked by vamps on the street, and also when he went after the Beast who threatened Anna, at the pack hunt party.
4.5 Hunting Ground Stars Wow, Anna is really coming in to her own, no she isn't healed or anything like that.
And I love that her and her wolf are equals.
Charles really shows his softer side for his mate this time.
A lot goes on I think I like that we get lots of action in these books.
And I kind of like that its Anna and Charles who work together to get out of the messes they find themselves in.
I love that he can do both female and male characters well and it doesn’t sound fake, it really flows well.
At the same time we get to know Charles and Anna even better, and watch their relationship grow, which is my favorite part.Anna still has some issues with the abuse she suffered at the hands of her old pack.
Charles isn't a big talker, doesn't always trust his words to be what he wants them to be, but I love that he makes a real effort for Anna when she needs it.The mystery part of it is interesting, though I don't think it's hard to figure out who the ultimate "bad-guy" is - I can't recall if I did my first time reading it.I think I'll just add some favorite quotes here, nothing too spoilery, but be warned if you don't like to read anything like that :)She gave him a happy look as he followed her out on the water-soaked wooden walk.
