https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567197.Sharra_s_Exile
3.75I want half stars.
Sharra's Exile is still a good installment, and I love Dani and Regis like ther's no tomorrow, but Sharra's Exile lacked something, I think.
The plot was quite good (though, again it can't compare to The heritage of Hastur in my opinion) and it was refined in its political aspects as well, but it wasn't as interesting as I expected it to be.
I'm talking about you, Dia. Dia aside I quite liked Lew's storyline.Anyway...Regis and Dani are still OTP.
Too bad I wanted to see them more.
Lew has to deal with the aftereffects of joining with the Sharra circle and his physical and psychic (in both senses) maiming, Regis has to deal with becoming the leader of the Comyn and assuming his at-least partially unwanted birthright, Dyan continues to be ambiguously villainous, and the Terrans are lurking around the edges of society.The Terrans and their relationship with Darkover were probably the most interesting part of the book for me, because I thought it was a great look at colonialism.
Meanwhile, rumours about a child of Alton blood are circulating; the child - a girl named Marja - is found, and proves to be Lew's child by Thyra, conceived while he was drugged and under Kadarin's control.After conversations with the two Keepers at the Comyn Tower - Callina Aillard and the unbelievably ancient Ashara, Lew and Regis realise that Regis, bearing the Hastur gift, is the only one who can stand against Sharra - but that he needs the power of the ancient Hastur relic, the Sword of Aldones, to defeat Sharra.
The final battle is joined, with Kadarin, Thrya and Dyan sealed to Sharra, and Regis, with the support of Callina and Lew, wielding the Sword of Aldones.
Re-read. I tend to forget how awful this one is in the years between readings. Poorly plotted, repetitive, internally inconsistent and yet here I am. It's the resolution of the set up in the much better Heritage of Hastur and thus must be read. Regis and Lew do seem to rise above the horrible writing, but only just. I don't recommend this for anyone but Darkover completists doing a re-read.
There seems to be an immediacy to it that's probably illusory--perhaps Lew, a genuinely haunted man (there seems to have been some brain damage caused by his father's final telepathic command, for example) is reliving the experience as a form of therapeutic catharsis.Regis Hastur, though he has his psychological problems, seems to have always been a more stable person, less controlled by his passions (but see Heritage of Hastur to recognize that threshold sickness can shake the most tranquil character), and he handles the crisis of the book better--as he handles most things better.Several people point out in the book that the Comyn Council is an anachronism--but few seem to realize that there was very little basis for it in the FIRST place.
So, so, SO repetitive. And everything happens in such a short amount of time, passions and friendship and hatred and battles, everything is really compressed and kind of not believable like this.And it's a shame, since the story is quite good and it could have been so much better... I wish they would adapt Darkover books into movies or a tv series, I think it would be a very interesting adaptation to make.
Again, this was quite a good novel, one that deals with the events that are 'legendary' in the Darkover canon, events that are referred to throughout the other novels--when Regis Hastur wields the Sword of Aldones to banish Sharra.Bradley apparently had the idea for this story when she was about fifteen, which would have been in the late 1940s, and she had written it once in a novel called 'The Sword of Aldones,' which, she admits in the introduction to this novel, she didn't do a very good job of, and she says that she wanted to rework the story and do it again rather than rewrite the novel.
The end of The Heritage of Hastur resulted in (view spoiler)[the Sharra matrix safely exiled from the planet Darkover, and with Kennard and Lew Alton escaping the planet along with it.
To her demise, Sharra touches their unborn child and Dio gives birth in a Terran hospital to a horrific monster, instead of a son, Lew’s Alton heir.
(hide spoiler)]The Hasturs intend to inherit the Alton Domain, adding to the already immense Hastur power, because both Lew and Kennard are off world at the same time.
Yet I do consider myself a fan of MZB's but that rests almost entirely on her Darkover books, of which she wrote 18 in her lifetime, although there were some further (some posthumous) collaborations.
This particular book is a direct sequel to Heritage of Hastur, which should be read first; it makes a fine entry point into the series, and many consider it MZB's finest novel.
The Darkover books were written out of sequence too, and I don't actually recommend you read them chronologically.
I've read both versions, and this is definitely the better book, even if I don't think it quite hits the high mark of Heritage of Hastur.
If you read this one quickly it helps, partly because, as Bradley explains in the author's note, she wrote it quickly.
_Heritage_ was such a groundbreaking (and overall pretty good) novel that this sequel is a serious letdown.
Another part of the problem is that this is (despite Bradley's rationalizations in her author's note) a rewrite of the first Darkover novel, _The Sword of Aldones_.
Like the most immediate preceding Darkover novel, _Two to Conquer_, I think this novel suffers from tooo much writing Bradley found herself engaged in during the late 1970s, while she was working on the enormous (and much better) _Mists of Avalon_.
It was a little repetitive at times, and I'd find myself thinking, "Wait, didn't I already read that?" And some of the foreshadowing in Lew's point of view was clunky, odd, and never really seemed to go anywhere.But it was satisfying to see the resolution of the Sharra matrix, to see Lew come to terms (sort of) with life as it is now, and especially to see Regis develop more fully into his powers.
I still adore Regis oh so very much, and I'd hate to end up wanting to smack him.
But Hastur Lord is so tempting...
Costretto da un giuramento fatto al capezzale del padre morente, ha indossato nuovamente gli abiti degli Alton per reclamare i terrori che gli appartengono e lottare per i diritti di suo fratello Marius.
Ma Kadarin, il traditore che in passato l'ha torturato e l'ha costretto a servirsi della potentissima matrice per soddisfare i suoi loschi piani, ha seguito le sue mosse e la sua ombra incombe su Lew e su Sharra come una cupa, terribile minaccia...Un buon libro, un po' esasperato in certi nodi della vicenda, ma entusiasmante, coinvolgente.
Tutto il romanzo procede con un senso di immane tragedia, e non è che non ci siano i suoi momenti tragici (le numerose morti da sole bastano e avanzano per qualificarlo come tale), ma non termina in tragedia e – anzi – avrebbe dovuto essere lo spartiacque definitivo tra il ‘vecchio’ Darkover e quello ‘nuovo’ (inteso in termini della cronologia interna della serie, con la presenza dell’Impero Terrestre sempre più cospicua su Cottman IV).
Sia come sia, e soprattutto se considerato un tutt’uno con L’EREDE DI HASTUR, è uno dei romanzi più belli di tutta la saga.
There's something about the Sharra-related books that I don't like as much as other Darkover books.
Reading the books in the order they were written in means that a lot of the time, I am faced with characters that feel a little alien and strange, characters I need to get to know again at the start of the book instead of ones that are like known friends or people I am deeply familiar with.
Perhaps that way, the Sharra books will feel different too.
The book is only appealing to true fans of the series but who that could be I don't know.
This book was like one scene in a soap opera.
You didn't have to read the preceding book to understand it, but if you didn't already have that investment in the story, this was a complete waste.
NOTHIN happens.
Nothing happens.
Nothing happens.
How nothing can happen in like 400 pages is weird but maybe that was the authors creative intent.
I should have given it only 1 star but that is reserved for books that truly offend me.

I've read it several times but not for a good ten years so it was interesting to revisit having recently read the trilogy dealing with Lew Alton's daughter.
In this, Lew is a wonderful flawed hero, doomed, conflicted, torn between three loves!
And Regis is endearing as the modest man who has "greatness thrust upon him" in a great final battle to save the world.I do feel it's a shame the series seems to jump from Lew at this stage in his life to the exploits of his daughter as an adult.
I would have loved to know more about Lew and Dio's middle-age together.
I loved the Darkover books when I was in high school/junior college. I was a GATE independently minded teenager. Rereading now, possibly because I now have a child, there is so much PAIN. Yes, I become attached to the characters---but can't Lew or Regis get one bloody break? I still want to know Sharra's background. I assume it will be in Stormqueen. Yes, I am aware there are not simple explanations for psychopaths, but a little insight would improve my attitude. Right now, I'm going with absolute power corrupts absolutely.
This is the sequel to The Heritage of Hastur.Lew Alton was severely injured working with the powerful Sharra matrix that got out of control. He lost a hand, and has psychic scars that may never heal.Now off-planet, he finds himself in a hopeful new relationship. But even that can't escape Sharra's devastating toll.One of the stronger sub-series in the Darkover planet books. Note: If you have issues with homosexuality, don't read the Darkover books.
MZB has a very sad tone in all her writing. I found this book through a reference book about Fantasy writers. I'd read Mists of Avalon and enjoyed it. This was not as good. There seemed to be a lot of repetition and expository lumps. I will probably read more in the series, as MZB had to rewrite this volume to conform to the extended world she created in later books. In addition, the idea of this was from when MZB was 15.
This was my first fantasy- sci fi book. I loved. Afterwards I bought anything by MZB I could get my hands on. Which led me to the Sword and Sorceress anthologies and introduced me to fantasy.This one is really science fiction though and a bit obscure at that but it was a door into a wonderful realm for me and for this alone I think of it and it's author with great affection.
You know, about the only thing I like about this damn book is the number of times someone says "Sharra!" It's always got an exclamation point, or italics, or ellipses. By the way, is there a damn book that explains what the hell the deal is with a lady in chains being trapped in that matrix? Everyone mentions it, no one explains. I continue to hate the ever-loving crap out of Darkover.
In this book, the author's predilection towards excessive wordiness takes over. Although I love her stories, sometimes (and this is true in Sharra's Exile,) it becomes tiresome, and the thread of the story gets lost a little.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
This book provides the back story on Lew Alton, who lost a hand in the Sharra matrix. I don't think that the SF library had all of the Darkover novels on hand, so I don't think I read them in chronological order. I remember elements of the series overall, but not specific books.
Marion Zimmer Bradley finally decided to write a coherent"," adult version of "Sword of Aldones""," the pivotal novel of Darkover. This one succeeds wonderfully.
This is another of my favorite Darkover novels.
I have always thought Lew Alton was her most interesting male character.
Included in Heritage & Exile, with The Heritage of Hastur
This is the book where my names comes from!
