https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14082.Malgudi_Days
Malgudi Days, written by R.K Narayan, chronicles the lives of people in the fictional town of Malgudi.
There are also animals including a forlorn dog who befriends a blind man and a ferocious tiger (perhaps a hint of Narayan's short novel, A Tiger for Malgudi).
This keeps the reader guessing as to what the next story will show in the lives of people who become endlessly fascinating, if only for the reason that you have met them before in your own town.
Through these tales the author, R.K Narayan, captures the readers' heart with his journey through the village of Malgudi and its' not so unfamiliar denizens.
While in real life, the place might be rife with lower caste men and women, those who clean and run the city, but they are nowhere to be seen in his works.Narayan claims that he only has to look out of his window to pick up a character.
He sees marginalized people and their problems, but he does not see 'caste.' To see it is to deal with it, to see it is to acknowledge it, and this could be too much for Narayan.
The peace is gained, the caste-order upheld.While Narayan picks up a character or a situation by glimpsing from a window, he never sees sex anywhere.
R.K.Narayan’s ability to write about ordinary people and events interestingly is exceptional. His works are enchanting like the works of Anton Checkhov. Narayan is a legend. He must be celebrated. In a land where mediocre writers, whose imaginations won’t go beyond premarital sex and job in an investment bank, are treated like rocks stars, it is a shame that Narayan is not celebrated.When publishers are maintaining official pages for famous authors on Facebook it is sad to know that there is none for R.K.Narayan. Wish if some publisher could do this as a mark respect for this wonderful writer.
No bookshelf is complete without malgudi days.
I eventually started to enjoy these short (4-6 page) stories because each has fully developed characters experiencing mini-dramas.
All the stories take place in the same town and a few of the characters pop up in multiple stories.
I ended up liking this and appreciating it for what it is - a thoughtful, sweet, well written collection of short stories.
I was telling my mom about it and she said that there is a television series on the indian channel by the same name where these stories are brought to life (television life, anyway).
She has been watching it for a while and always thought they were true stories.
But this story is of Attila, the huge pet dog in a Malgudi household.
How Attila manages to unintentionally get him caught forms the rest of this hilarious story.3.
Fathers help: (Remembering School Days!): This features our little friend Swamy, who shirks homework, tries all ways and means to stay away from school (In short, all the qualities that were present in us when we were young).
He gets to know from the town doctor that his mom faints periodically and she might pass away anytime.
At the most interesting point, where one longs to know what happened next, the story ends.
The beauty of this book lies in the simplicity with which the author portrays ardent, human emotions.
This book comprises of thirty-two short stories that provide a kaleidoscopic view of Malgudi, a small, fictional village from post-independence India, with each story reminding us that we are only human.
In an introduction to the book, author Jhumpa Lehri implores the reader to read one story each day.
I, however, failed to do so and found myself devouring story after story everyday.With his remarkable works of art, he introduced the world to Indian-English literature and made his way from our textbooks to our hearts.
It's a book of engaging short stories set in India, "revealing the essence of India", as the GR description says.I didn't think I'd be interested in reading it at first.
Originally broadcast on India's National Channel, director Shankar Nag's warm and engaging series shares universal themes -- ranging from love and hate to religion and daydreams -- played out by a cast representing the spectrum of society: beggars, servants, masters, rich and poor." (from the Netflix description)===================================================Well, as I got into it, I decided to get the book from the library.
It certainly helps in the appreciation of the story and the characters.As the description above says, the stories are "warm and engaging".
- R.K. NarayanFrom the pen of one of India's finest writers, R K Narayan's stories are simple but manage to capture the essence of life, love and relationships magnificently.
Set in a fictional South Indian village of Malgudi (mixture of Malleswaram and Basavangudi), Malgudi Days depicts life in pre-Independence India with a unique flair.
Life from the perspective of the common people is showcased in all its vivid detail and that era of Indian life captured in print for all time to come in this book of short stories.I love this book and would read this again and again.
These stories feel universal; I am uncomfortably aware that this comment - from a white reader, on a non-white author's work - may smack of insensitivity to difference, but they feel universal the way greatest Russian literature does; they present human weaknesses and imperfection in a humorous, but, more frequently, objective and non-judgmental way.My favourite story was Engine Trouble; I really liked and may use An Astrologer's Day, The Missing Mail, Lawley Road, God and the Cobbler, and Hungry Child.
Either in written form or broadcasted on television, the stories of Malgudy Days, like Shaktimaan and Chacha Chaudhry have influenced and entertained people .
Anyone can think that I am exaggerating this , but it is true about Malgudy Days.
Stories like, ‘ An Astrologer’s Day’, ‘Trail of The Green Blazer’, ‘ The Martyr’s Corner’, ‘ Hungry Child’ and ‘Emden’ leave you in a vogue and compel you to think about the ending and to praise of Nrayan’s art of story-telling.
The third story, ‘Gateman’s Gift’ has also an awkward ending, perhaps Narayan exaggerated the innocence of the then common people.R. K.
Malgudi Days is my 2017 BEST SHORT STORY COLLECTION BOOK.
It has a lot going for it - short chapter like stories all interconnected by the location (Malgudi, Narayan's fictional Indian town) and with some character crossovers, it is very readable, covering a range of topics key to Indian life.
Nevertheless, this book is brilliant for dipping in and out of, or reading in short bursts, like I did over lunchtimes for a few days.Narayan has a real talent for character description, and I really enjoy his writing, improving as I read more.
Review to follow soon.
I loved this collection of short stories - RK Narayan ranks there with Chekov . The stories captured the essence of India and spirit of her people. Having studied and travelled there , I felt nostalgic reading about the lives of the households and street denizens of the fictional yet not-so-fictional town of Malgudi. Narayan's prose also steers away from pain, suffering and verbosity that sometimes dominates many Indian works. He paints it as simple and resilient Gerry picked this one for our Book Club - a good pick
Super short short stories, ranging from 3-10 pages per. Amazingly - I didn't hit upon one that left me dangling, or feeling incomplete, as some short stories do. Narayan's writing is ---spicy is the word that comes to mind, like eating hot chilli peppers that wake up every taste bud in your mouth and leave you grabbing for more. Couldn't put this one down, I found it electrifying.
the cumulative effect is that a sense of place and time emerge around us and we are engulfed by it, so that when we meet a man who has planned to take his young daughter to cinema and is gathering courage to ask his manager for few hours off, we are aware that the postman is in the vicinity, that if the salaryman takes a wrong turn he will meet the astrologer on his way home, that the young boy is still trying to get rid of the old snake on a nearby mountain...
And that is why the stories have the ability to grow in your mind, remaining as fresh and humane today as they were decades ago.I see the seeds sown by Narayan sprout into such children as the characters in Miguel Street or Firozsha Baug.
I wait to go out of my door into those loved and shabby streets..."— Graham GreeneIn this short story collection, Narayan introduces us to a number of characters who inhabit Malgudi, each with their own conflicts.
"While other writers rely on paragraphs and pages to get their points across, Narayan extracts the full capacity of each sentence, so much so that his stories seem bound by an invisible yet essential mechanism, similar to the metrical and quantitative constraints of poetry."There you have it: poetic sensibilities concentrated into prose so potent that it only takes a few pages to tell each well-rounded tale.I loved reading this book.
If I regard all the timeless classics I have been fortunate enough to be a part of, the one series that sticks out like a gentle reminder of life itself is the late Sh.R K Narayan's 'Malgudi Days' The two names that have become synonymous to me with being simple yet powerful.
A whole new perspective arose.
A new dimension.
A new light.
Draped in the practicality we are so used to, it hid within the simple nothings of life that are everything.
A poem.A beautiful memory.The message that 'Malgudi Days' conveys represents every human emotion there ever was and every personality there ever will be.TRULY.
In my view, this one book shows what a versatile author and story teller R K Narayan was.Though by the time I bought this book, the Malgudi Days teleserial was completed and RKN was already etched in every youngsters mind.However this book of short stories, left an even deeper impact on my mind.Especially two stories I can never forget.Eshwar & Bulldozer.While Eshwar depicted the tragic side of the common man, Bulldozer showed the hilarious aspect. Infact it was too good not to burst out into laughter!
Such a lovely reread; Narayan doesn't age, doesn't fade. Images from some of these stories will stay with me for a long time, I'm sure—the lonely sign painter licking cotton candy from the corners of his lips, the gambler who breaks open his son's coin box with a pestle, the knife-sharpener yelling in the streets, the cobbler who thinks he might have met god in the shape of a hippie...life is hard, life is sweet, life is sour, life is bitter, life is long.
If you haven't read this book you are missing a gem . This author has made my childhood days amazing. In my days I loved to read his writing . His writing style is easy and so much realatble . This book is collection of short stories. There is a fictional town Malgudi and stories are about the citizens . He is one of my fav author
One of the finest of R K Narayan.It was a collection worth keeping.It takes place in a fictional village called Malgudi. Though few stories had an abrupt ending , every story keeps us engaged till the end and the language was pretty simple and clear. Narayan gives a lucid account of everything that takes place in this beautiful village . His narrative literally teleports us to this small, beautiful and happy village, Malgudi.
Great. Masterpiece. Simple stories of simple people. Magnificent narration of human traits. Not giving 5 starts only because I find author's language a bit tough for me.
His fictional town of Malgudi feels absolutely real to me, so much so that it's probably my favourite invented location in all literature.This collection of stories displays enormous variety within the compass of this remarkable town, only occasionally venturing outside it, into the countryside or the jungle where tigers and angry gods might cause difficulties for the people who stray into their domain.
Most of the time, the people settled in Malgudi, or just passing through it, devise deeply human strategies for coping with the difficulties thrown at them by circumstance and fate, or sometimes make their own difficulties through the accretion of actions over years.Despite the warmth of Narayan's prose style and the gentle mood he evokes and the benign ambience of the setting, there is suffering and guilt here too.
In an eloquent introduction to the book, Jhumpa Lahiri talks about how a disciplined reader should commit to one story at a time.
The story God and the Cobbler has a description of a ‘hippie’ that I will likely remember as one of the best written passages that I have come across in the English language.No need to explain who the hippie was, the whole basis of hippieness being the shedding of identity and all geographical associations.
If you developed an intractable hirsuteness, you acquired a successful mask; if you lived in the open, roasted by the sun all day, you attained a universal shade transcending classification or racial stamps and affording you unquestioned movement across all frontiers.
Though from an Indian writer, this book stands out. There are short stories which revolve around a village called Malgudi. The characters are well defined. Most of the endings are so human that it makes you feel that, "really? we all do this?". Book is kind of collection as it was published in 1943. I will say, todays amateur and useless spicy writers like Bhagat, Durjoy, Ravindar and Ahuja should read it as Standard for PhD to know how to write a book so basic but so great.
A collection of short stories from the bustling town of Malgudi, 'Malgudi Days' is a conglomeration of humour, satire, simplicity and perfection.
The varied collection of short stories is embellished with Narayan’s signature humour and the natural serene setting makes the stories all the more captivating.
'An Astrologer’s Day', the first story in the collection is witty and shrouded in suspense and the impostor soothsayer does manage to make a prediction towards the end.
'The Blind Dog' is a poignant tale of an unending devotion of a little mongrel towards a blind beggar.
'The Axe' is a haunting and moving tale of the relationship between Velan, a keen gardener, and his plants.
You won't find Malgudi on any real map, but Narayan describes the people and the location with such skill that I often forgot that I was not being transported to an authentic Indian city.In Narayan's introduction he explains that in India "the writer has only to look out of the window to pick up a character and thereby a story." He accomplishes this thought exceptionally well and introduces a variety of different characters, from a wayward student to an astrologer.
I feel if his characters can be so vivid in short stories, then the characters of a full novel might be even more impressive.
Its really outstanding how Rk Narayan can tell a story that is so simple and still make leave a ever lasting impression. I think till I am alive I will not forget " maneater of Malgudi". It was equally interesting to watch Malgudi days directed by Shankar Nag it was shot in Agumbe which is 300 KM from Bangalore a small town that is so beautiful. You can actually here the music when you walk through the town and it really mesmerizing.
In this collection of short stories, many of the stories give a feeling of ending abruptly. But the character build up and the intrinsic details spun around EACH and EVERY story is exceptionally good. This is one of the reasons that when you feel so much acquainted with the characters, the story unfortunately has to end!
