https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85306.Hour_Game
But as they are questioning the Battle family, the Police Chief asks them to look into a murder.
The victim is made to look like a casualty of the Zodiac Killer.
Soon more bodies are turning up, each made to look like the victim of a famous serial killer.
As King and Maxwell's original case becomes entwined with the serial murders, they begin to question just how many killers are running lose.This is the second book in the King and Maxwell series.
Overall, I liked it and am looking forward to the next book in the series.
He's one of few authors that can usually keep me guessing until close to the end of the book.
He also has the ability to create characters that feel real, and he offers insight into human nature.
I don't know if he lacked faith in his readers' intelligence and perception, or in his own ability to portray his own thoughts, but it made for some tedious reading in a book that was supposed to be fast-paced.
'Saving Faith' is one of my favorites, as well as the 'Camel Club' books.
It's so bad it may be the most humorous novel I've read this year.
It's like a parody of a someone writing a bestselling novel.
Someone at Mr. Baldacci's publisher needs to hire a first rate copy editor, because obviously, there is not one on the staff, This book is filled with sentences and paragraphs so incoherent it would have put my high school Advance Composition teacher, Mrs. Mazursky, into a grammatical meltdown.
Books like this (MASSIVE bestsellers) always make me shake my head in wonderment of how bad publishing has fallen.
Hour Game follows the usual trend of a Baldacci series. The first book, Split Second, was interesting but not great and it set up the rest of the series. Hour Game improves upon Split Second in every way possible, especially the plot.The lead characters are great as is their interactions. The murders are local; so we get to see a lot more of Wrightsburg. The plot is also much better since there is some kind of payoff in the end.Overall, this is a nice time pass.
This book is a taut thriller pairing Sean King and Michelle Maxwell. The duo is hired as deputies to the police chief Todd Williams to solve a string of murders committed by a serial killer. The ride is bumpy with bodies falling left and right, ending in a superb climax. The author builds up the suspense beautifully right till the end. The characters are interesting especially the entire Battle family and the ending is unpredictable.I enjoyed this edge-of-the-seat thriller.
Too much of everything: Characters, information and events When the small town of Wrightsburg is rocked by gruesome murders, both ex-secret service agents, Michelle Maxwell and Sean King, now private investigators (partners) are hot on the murderers tail. What sets the murderer apart is how he copies famous serial killers when he commits a crime. The light banter between Michelle and Sean are the highlight of the book. Their bickering does bring comic relief to an otherwise intense thriller. Ho
From the very beginning, when Michelle and Sean take up the case, Baldacci swamps the reader with a lot of characters; there are so many people, and all under suspicion and so little information.
I actually left it many times in the beginning.Another thing that works against the book is how the characters of Michelle and Sean are presented.
For someone who had spent "nine intense years in the Secret Service", she doesn't do much except shooting her mouth off, firing guns and being impulsive while Sean does all the work.

Decepcionante.Empieza muy bien, pero a medida que avanza se vuelve absurdo. Las motivaciones para los asesinatos son ridículas en su mayoría. Pasan cosas que son extremadamente convenientes para el unsub (tengo ganas de llamarle asi, como en criminal minds :P ). El unsub es expert@ en todo, consigue información que nadie más puede, entra en lugares con extremada facilidad. Todo en este libro es demasiado conveniente simplemente porque la trama lo necesita así. La primera parte es entretenida, pero el autor se sobrecomplicó y al hacerlo dañó la historia. Puede que lea otro a ver que tal.
Even more intriguing are the family dynamics and the reasons behind the gruesome murders, which almost include King and Maxwell themselves (ah, c'mon, that's no spoiler - do you really think Baldacci would kill off either of the characters that drive the series)?Now, of course, I'm looking forward to the next one, which I believe is Simple Genius - in part because it was written at least two years after this one and, if the current trend is any example, should be better still.
Then came the dreaded moment: bedtime with nothing to read!
While desperately searching, I came across a box of books left by a friend who moved.
Of the dozen of his books in the box, this was the thinnest.
I figured I could read until falling asleep and then toss it in the morning.Yah, I got hooked.There were so many murders right off the bat—all seemingly unrelated, yet probably by the same perp—I wanted to see where the author could possibly go with this.
The chapters are short, compact and jet the plot forward every time (there a hundred chapters).
**my second read**King & Michelle from Charottlesville, work on killings in Wrightsburg.
The book's link to the "Hour game" title is good.
hence set to the "hour" are placed on bodies/victims."Zodiac" Letters/Symbols & Zodiac Wrist Watches set at a hour?Murders point to a Battle family.
examiner had an affair from her husband, Steve Diaz, with a Battle family member.
(King knew her from his past).
First murder is a woman tied with a tree branch & arms pointing to sky with Zodiac watch.
Next, 2 lover lane students, Steve Cannery & Janice Pembroke with Zodiac Watches.
Rhonda Tyler with a Zodiac letter.
While I enjoyed the book and it was an interesting read, it was much longer than it needed to be. In addition there were several tangents/red herrings that had been taken/thrown out but never resolved that it left me a bit frustrated at the end. The end was not as satisfying as it could - and should - have been but that has to remain unsaid as it would be a major spoiler...Overall, because the story was interesting, kept me guessing throughout and was generally well written, I liked the read.Rating: 3.75
I loved Sean's deadpanned humor when he addressed that fact to Michelle.The mystery reminded me a bit of the experience reading Agatha Christie's books -- in a sense that everything was related to the Battles and every single family members seemed to have their own secrets.
Agatha Christie's books used to have that as well, where family members were not innocent or the small town citizens had their secrets.
No creo que este libro sea la mejor presentacion de David Baldacci, es mi primer libro que leo de este autor, el cual es muy reconocido en este genero.Que puedo decir del libro, primeramente no hice empatia con los protagonistas, King & Maxwell, ambos me los encuentro mal estructurados, no dan ni ton ni son.
La narracion me la encontre en muchas ocasiones repetitivas, principalmente cuando describian los personajes.
Hablando de personajes, demasiados, llega un punto que el autor se enreda tanto que hace un desenlace tan frustante y desabrido.En fin, resumen:1.
Demasiados personajes, mal estructurados.2.
Demasiados tramas a la vez y ninguna bien desarrolladas.3.
Desenlace insastifactorio.
Overall this was a very enjoyable book.
I enjoyed the style and feel of the book, I just feel it was a touch long to keep up the suspense and tension throughout.
There was a big list of characters and the interactions with them were very intriguing and interesting.
In some sense I just feel there was too much going on.
That said it was a very enjoyable read that I would recommend to others, but I can see why some others don't take to it.
If you haven't given David Baldacci a try I would certainly recommend him.
Read as part of World of Sleuths ReadalongsAnother enjoyable read.
Been listening to it on audio through Hoopla and I do enjoy the narrator.
Lots of twists and uncovering the reason behind the murders was interesting.
Each puzzle piece fit together well and I was surprised with the outcome.The murders were much more violent in this one than the previous installment, but I think I did enjoy this mystery just a touch more than the first one.
Will definitely be continuing on to the next installment and am interested to see what mystery that one brings.
A very long book for the second King and Maxwell book, six months or so following the events in the first book which brought their two characters together. Slightly sleepy Wrightsburg in Virginia sees a spate of murders, where it is not clear whether more than one killer is involved - pretty violent stuff and some exciting scenes
The second book of the series pairing ex secret service now investigators King and Maxwell. In this story they are on the hunt for a serial killer and it's non stop action from beginning to end. Plenty of intense moments and creatively written scenarios. Highly entertaining
Gross, unnecessarily violent, and at least the first 5 pages should have been labeled horror.
I enjoyed this novel from David Baldacci.
I had a few of the twists figured out before they were revealed, but that just tells me that Baldacci left the necessary clues for me to piece it together.
My one complaint is the lack of development of King and Maxwell, the protagonists.
Sometimes I feel like in a effort the keep things a mystery we miss out on important interactions and developments in the King/Maxwell partnership.
It is like Baldacci has made her the brawn (with all the mentions of her athleticism and strength) and him the brains.
It started out mildly interesting for the first chapter, up until we met the heroes.
When the author wasn't busy supplying boring, unneeded descriptions of things (seriously, you _can_ use fewer words you know), he instead delivered stilted, terrible dialogue.
Worst of all, the protagonists suck.
I mean as an attempt at realistic, fully realized characters, they suck.
This novel does not predate Buffy, Xena, Aliens, or any other example of a good, well-realized, strong female lead, so there is no excuse for this writing of this character.
The author attempted a heavy-handed presentation of swapped gender expectations but failed.
No one can understand the murderer's motives or who the next victim will be.Drawn into this violent affair are two Secret Service agents turned private investigators, Sean King and Michelle Maxwell.
Soon, stunning secrets will lead the partners into the middle of a frantic search for a killer unlike any they've confronted before.As the Hour Game barrels forward, Sean and Michelle face a macabre puzzle and uncover one horrifying revelation after another.
But time is running out...for all of them.In Hour Game, best-selling master storyteller David Baldacci has created his most mind-blowing and satisfying thriller yet.
Baldacci throws everything, including the kitchen sink, at you in this action-packed thriller, the 2nd in the King and Maxwell series.
Sean King and Michelle Maxwell, two ex-Secret Service agents, working now as Private Detectives in the area are called in to help with the investigation by the local police chief.
As well, they are working a separate case for a lawyer, defending a break and entering suspect.
Before they get to the crux of solving this case there will be many murders, almost daily, their lives will be threatened.
But they plug on, working to solve the case.
Not surprisingly, David Baldacci's books become predictable and formulaic after a while.
This book was an enjoyable, easy read, and I got through it quickly.
Sometimes it's nice to just be able to read a book without using a ton of brain power.Probably the most annoying part of the book was not the predictability, but the chapter where the investigators sit down and review the data...the chapter is designed to look like they're all reviewing the information together, to make sure they haven't missed anything, but the real purpose is to summarize for the readers everything that has happened.
Except I don't need the summary because I'VE BEEN READING THE BOOK.
It's a totally fine book if you want to read something that doesn't make you think (I'm not judging here--I do it all the time myself!)
That being said, I almost don't want to bother with the next one now because I was so irritated by this one.
Despite the presence of a purportedly strong female sidekick character, the fact that she's always referred to by her first name while the main character is referred to by his last name irritates me and feels a little sexist.
Combined with the fact that the male main character never shares important information with his female sidekick, this guy just kinda rubs me the wrong way.
This is the 2nd book in the King and Maxwell series.
It was a very interesting read and kept me turning the pages.
The book could have been shorter as there were entirely too many characters and the plot had subplots.
Each chapter brought more questions without any clues or answers.
I now look forward to reading the next in the series as I do enjoy the partnership of King and Maxwell.
I would recommend this book to those who like twists and turns and mysteries that are hard to solve.
If I hadn't been so tired I would have ended up reading all night, good job I could have a lie in.
A serial killer is murdering people in Maxwell and King's neighbourhood, seemingly there are no connections.
However Sean King is a smart guy and he finds links.
There are also the Battle's, a rich family who have a lot of connections, but with the patriarch in hospital and a burgalry there's a few skeletons in the cupboards who want out.There are good characters, some gruesome murders and a few red herrings thrown in, takes a while to spot who did what and why?.
So many characters!
So many murders!
So many mysteries!
This book had me in the story from page one right until the end.
The plot and the buildup was so so good and the way the characters intersected and the way every story and person had another deeper layer of darkness has very interesting.
The reveal in the end wherein the killer is ...........
was a bit expected if not completely surprising.
Still it touched a lot of points on intentions and lost love and family and desires and in the end the satisfaction and calmness that every character wanted.
Audiobook review - 4 stars story ♫ 4 stars audio. I enjoyed the story.... I was shocked how far the killer was able to go before caught. Also... all those murders and no FBI or major man-hunt went on... that didn't seem plausible. I'm happy that Ron McLarty has "Re" narrated to books. It's a great narrator. I'm really looking forward to book 5 where he teams up with Orlagh Cassidy! Together, they are spectacular.
i loved it and loved every page of it. dont get let down by the size of the book because you wont even realize that you are half way through the book because of its pace and intensity.the book has its share of thrills, actions, blood drives and wits and humour filled through the pages.I liked how david baldacci had kept it light for the readers to keep the track and yet the twists and turns blows your mind completelytrue page turner
