https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1675216.Found
The Missing Book 1: Found.I may be a bit biased--slightly--since I love, love, love Margaret Peterson Haddix.
But for those that love science fiction and mysteries...this one is for you.Here's the opening of the prologue: "It wasn't there.
But when she first saw the plane that night, she wasn't thinking about mysteries or secrets."What Angela DuPre witnessed on her first day of the job was indescribably unbelievable.
Our book opens with the arrival of several mystery letters.
They're coming back to get you."Found is a suspenseful, mysterious action-and-adventure novel that will thrill those that love science fiction.
The answers lead the kids to discover their connection to seemingly impossible events.I’m a sucker for books that contain anonymous notes.
Sure, technology changes but when it comes to something like cell phone cameras such devices will be around for a while.
If you would like to be surprised by the secret of this book, stop reading this review right now.
As those of you who have read the book are aware, the secret behind this story is that the babies on the plane is that they’re all famous children that died sometime in history.
I am a fan of Margaret Haddix's work and have read "Running Out of Time" and the Shadow Children series among others which are in the same genre as "Found." However, Haddix's writing spans a range of genres and I recently read "Uprising," which is historical fiction, and it was excellent.
I am also a big fan of fantasy/scifi and reading the first book in a new series is always exciting.
Though the idea for the book is exciting, the plot occasionally bogged down, the characters were frustrating at times and two dimensional for the most part, and, having a teenager myself, I often questioned the authenticity of the thoughts and dialogue of the main characters.
Per the summary: When thirteen-year-old friends Jonah and Chip, who re both adopted, find out that they were discovered on a plane that appeared out of nowhere, full of babies, with no adults on board, they realize that they have uncovered a mystery involving time travel and two opposing forces, each trying to capture them.The first two-thirds of the book were okay - a little dragged out and sometimes frustrating - but the last third of the book, which reveals the time travelers and their intentions, was very disappointing.
I first picked this book thinking, Well I've read a lot, so why not start a new series?
I wasn't expecting much, but I was wrong.The plot.
I couldn't put it down without thinking, what now?Jonah.
Yet he's good at figuring things out.The ending.
The whole cave thing amazed me.
I kept thinking, what are you doing Jonah?!?And when they teleported to the 15th century, I was speechless.
Jonah and Kathrine going with Chip really proved their friendship.Now I wonder, what would have happened if they were to late to grab Chip's arm?
Who is Jonah.
What happens now?
Both of my girls are adoped and so I had a connection to this story that was unexpected. Imagine having your adopted child receive a letter that tells them "You are one of the missing" That would freak me out! Well, that is what actually happens in this book. I really enjoyed this book. It was an action packed book.
3.75 Silver Starsgreat story! better than beyonders I read while ago.
This is the first book in the Missing series.
I've heard really, really good things about this book, and they're all true.
I almost read it in one sitting, not bad for a 300 page book.
A plane mysteriously appears at an airport, carrying only 36 babies.
As soon as the babies are unloaded, the plane vanishes again.
The mystery of who they really are and where they really came from is (mostly) solved by the end of the book, but there's still a lot left to cover.
I'll be reading the rest of this series.
This book was way better than I remembered reading it a long time ago. The beginning seemed pretty boring but in the middle all the action and conspiracy happened and it good good again. I liked the book but I did not absolutely love it. I will probably read the series because I wonder what happened to the main character and his sister when ____ happened. Overall, I liked the book and people should read this.
Extremely quick-moving read, and really enjoyable. This is the first book of hers I've read (I need to read "Among the Hidden," obviously). A plane appears out of nowhere, full of crying babies... and no one else. No pilots, flight attendants, parents... nobody. What a premise! Then, we fast-forward 13 years and meet Jonah, who keeps getting cryptic letters with no return address. The letters are related to the fact that Jonah is adopted, which is related to that weird airplane from the beginning of the book. I'll look forward to book 2!
The story unfolds to an exciting climax that will make you want to read book 2.Students like this series that sweeps readers along with gobs of action and creepiness.
We don't know who Jonah is historically and he isn't really described so the reader can't take a stab at guessing.
It isn't clear Katherine's role in the series either but I think she's an interesting character that has to be in the next book based on how Found ends.
The action and discoveries didn't stop and I just kept frantically turning pages to find out more.Jonah is an engaging character.
I will say that the Skidmore parents felt a little too perfect.Really, there are only two things keeping this from being a five-star book for me.
Two, by the time I got to the ending, I felt like this was mostly set up for the following book(s).
There's nothing wrong with that, and there's nothing really wrong with this book, but I feel like there's room for the sequel to be even better and I just want to leave some wiggle room in my ratings.
So I read it today and I quite liked it.As a mother of an adopted son I must say this book made me a tad uncomfortable - what if someone tried to take him back?
I think the characters were very well done and the emotions and thoughts were true to life.This book is a bit science fictiony.
But overall I enjoyed it and would read the second book.
I typically like to read a series after it's all written so I don't have to wait.
A good, fast, fun read.
Found is a book that starts right off with the drama.
It is not a lot, but it is enough to get you wondering and thinking.
Throughout the book you are left off with surprises and cliff hangers, that makes you want to keep reading.
The main character (Johna) is always doubting himself and can never believe what he is hearing or seeing, but as the book goes on he matures and learns how to stick with his decisions and stops trying to find a logical explanation for everything.
Overall Found was a good book that I hope is going to start off a good series.
Her books have that edge of realism that makes them so believable, and she has that way of slipping in a thought provoking message about society without being pushy.
That's why it's hard for me to believe Found is a Haddix book.
I felt no growth from the characters.
The end also sets itself up for a sequel very well, making you wonder what will happen.
Like the charaters, it never tried to be more than what it was: a summer beach book.
Found isn't a bad book; I was simply hoping for more from Ms. Haddix.
Jonah is adopted.
Which aside from his parents annoying repetition of their “out-of-the-blue” adoption story, isn’t that dominant a facet of his life.
At least not compared to shooting hoops with his friend, Chip, and trying to be cool enough for seventh grade.
And shunning his slightly younger sister, Katherine.But then the letter arrives.
“You are one of the missing.”And the other letter.
They are coming back for you.”Followed by the secret lists, intruders, and the phone number from the FBI.Which all lead back to the plane that disappeared.And suddenly being “adopted” has an entirely different meaning.Sigh.
Yet another series I am going to have to shoot right to the top of my priority list.
I really, really liked this book.
The prologue (even though I normally am not a fan of them) was an amazing start to the book that kept me reading to find out what in the world was going to happen next.I have a lot of students who are huge fans of Margaret Peterson Haddix from reading the Among the Hidden series who will love this book/series.The only (weak) reason why I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is because I am not completely sure if I'll be picking up the next book any time soon.
It's not that it doesn't seem interesting, it's just that I have so many books to read and I don't know if I have the time to stick with another series like this.The book was great though.
Wow wow wow. Heart stopping action, page turning suspense and things that will keep you up all hours of the night and freak you out. True. But this book is so amazing but a lil crazy which lowered the rating 😂
This is an amazing children's series! The mystery is so good, it have many of the teachers at my school hooked on these books. Hey, when a storyline is good and well executed, it doesn't matter how old you are. A good book is a good book! Looking forward to checking out the other installments :)
Super book- some slow parts in the middle.
If you read this and are wondering if its worth it to push through the slow part to get to the end, you definitely should because the explosive ending made it so worth it.I definitely think this was a little bit of a filler book, but its also super necessary because it really explains what the hell is going on without it feeling like an info dump.
I think we will really get to know them more as the series goes on, but overall, I never felt like they were flat or static characters.
I thought that the element of time travel in the book made anything possible during the reading of the book.PlotJonah Skidmore was adopted at a very young age.
Jonah started to receive strange letters in the mail that seemed to involve his past.
The setting of a small town also added an aspect of comfortability to Jonah and the people around him.
When Jonah started to receive the letters, it made him question how normal he really was.
The two learned that they will never be normal until they are sent to their original times.Rating/Recommendation This book was very rewarding of all five stars.
I generally don't like books that deal with time travel because I find the plot to be convoluted and the logic of the time travel rules confusing. But I liked the characters in this one and it was more about figuring out was going on even though it did have a moment of confusing time travel related rules, I ended up enjoying it overall. I'm not sure how I'll like the next one in the series since it deals more with time travel but I'll check it out.2018 challenge: a book about time travel
Jonah wanted to just be an ordinary kid who was adopted but he starts getting these weird letters from an unknown person that says "you are one of the missing".So, later on he finds out that his best friend Chip is also adopted so they both try to find our where they came and why they got those weird letters.Also they go to the library to meet the flight attendant that was on the plane to see what was this whole mystery was about.
She tells Jonah, Katherine, and Chip all about what happened that day at Sky Trails Airport.
My favorite part of this book is when Jonah,Chip,and Katherine are learning about the children that were on the plane,and how they learn that all of the kids that were on the plane thirteen years ago all live in the same state.
My least favorite part of the book is when Jonah,Chip, and Katherine all go to the meeting of all the adopted children that were on the plane thirteen years ago.
The only reason why i didn't give it five stars was because, since its part of a series, the story is not yet complete. I loved it though! thanks for the recommendation Michelle!
Wow that book had me looking over my shoulder into the darkness behind my chair last night.
Let me tell you all something.....
"DON'T EVER READ THAT BOOK IN DARKNESS!!" It gave me the creeps, and what's worse I had to finish it last night too.
Any ways....
basically it's a super good read for those who like time travel, mysterious happenings, and some really good action.
I enjoyed it very much and now I'm wondering how Jonah, Katherine, Chip, and Alex are going to survive the next book .....
Gonna.
need to go back to the library......
*sighs*
My Social Studies teacher in seventh grade had this book on her back bookshelf, and whenever I would finish an assignment early I would slip over and crack open to the page where I had last left off, reading perhaps a chapter every couple weeks.
Sometimes, reading this book would be the highlight of my week.I never got to finish this book, and for some reason I forgot all about it until a couple of weeks ago when I saw it in the library and knew I had to pick it up!
It starts off when a plane suddenly arrives out of nowhere, without any warning.
Disappointed because it felt like half a book, half a story, instead of something whole and substantial.
That aside, this is a pretty entertaining book - though it's wrongly categorized as YA; i'd say this is more middle grade, given the age of the characters and the style of the writing.
The weakest part of this book is the the plot, it felt too quick and simple - there wasn't really enough substance to make this book feel anything more than a stepping stone for the rest of the series.
This is book one in a new series by Haddix titled "The Missing".
She's written several other children's books, including the Shadow Children series.
The FBI takes "control" of the situation.Flash forward 13 years to meet Jonah, who is adopted, his 12 year old sister Katherine who is not, and their new neighbor Chip, also 13.
People and notes begin to appear from nowhere--and disappear in a flash--even in the FBI offices.
And the ending....well, the ending is going to leave readers dying for the next book to come out.
I highly recommend this book to all mystery readers regardless of their age.
