https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827358.Breaking_The_Silence
4.5 sad stars. “My husband shot himself in our bedroom. When I got home, Emma was standing at the bottom of the stairs, screaming.” Since that awful day, Laura Brandon’s little girl hasn’t uttered a word. When a psychiatrist suggests that Emma won’t talk because she’s terrified of men, Laura is guilt-ridden. To help Emma, she needs to know what unspeakable secret lies behind her husband’s suicide. This one was intriguing but heartbreaking.I have read two other books by this author and they were
When I got home, Emma was standing at the bottom of the stairs, screaming.” Since that awful day, Laura Brandon’s little girl hasn’t uttered a word.
When a psychiatrist suggests that Emma won’t talk because she’s terrified of men, Laura is guilt-ridden.
To help Emma, she needs to know what unspeakable secret lies behind her husband’s suicide.
This one was intriguing but heartbreaking.I have read two other books by this author and they were quite intense.
I did shed a tear or two reading this one.
Hit a bit close to home for me.
I didn't really read many reviews before starting it.
It was one of those books that had me thinking afterwards.
This book involved so many different types of relationships and characters.
At the end of the story she writes that these things really did occur in the 1950s, which just floors me.
This whole story involves so many different relationships.
The further I got into the story though, I could see little pieces that showed how these relationships are related to one another.
I absolutely loved this book and I have never been disappointed by Diane Chamberlain.
I have read a few books by Diane Chamberlain and enjoyed them all, but this is my favourite so far.
There are several different story lines running at the same time.
A young child who is mute after going through a traumatic experience and her therapy and the worry of her mother.
A mother tracing the biological father of her daughter conceived after a one night stand.
I know this sounds like it is very confusing but it's not, the stories are woven together very well.
The book is very well researched and the memories of the former nurse are based on true events.
It's hard to not compare Diane Chamberlain with Jodi Picoult (even the book cover does this) but I didn't really feel like I was reading a Picoult book.
Laura is a really likeable character though certainly not flawless or over the top.
Some bits of it were a bit predictable for example (view spoiler)[Dylan and Laura (hide spoiler)], but the rest I definitely did not see coming and I loved how it all came together and made sense after so many pages of being confused and wondering how it all could work out.
Overall, it was an excellent book and I'm really looking forward to reading more of Chamberlain's work.
There are books that I LOVE that only get 4 stars from me...so we gotta go 3.75** Definitely a quick build up of suspense and quite a cast of characters that need to all come together at some point - I honestly had no idea how it was going to work out!!
I think the lower rating is result of me enjoying these characters - but not really loving and siding up with any 1 in particular!The book really touches on struggles with death, suicide, alzheimer's, child trauma, and air balloon rides!!
Another 5 star book by Diane Chamberlain. You could tell a lot of research went into this book which makes it so great. It grabbed me from page 1 and I didn’t want to put it down.
Can you say obsessed?
My obsession with reading Ms. Chamberlain's works just keeps increasing.
I don't know how I made it to the age of 44 without discovering this author.
I am working my way through all of her books now.
I used to work with clients who had mental illness and my mind went back to those people and how I would feel if the disturbing type of treatments were performed on them.
It was disturbing and interesting and I really felt for the loved ones of those patients that were described in this book.
Now, I am onto the next book and cannot wait!!
Diane Chamberlain never fails to disappointment in her writing.
Although many of her books were released in the nineties, and therefore outdated in some respects, much of her work has been published again and the cover art modernised.
Laura is a world renowned astronomer, wife to Ray and mother to five year old Emma.
Meanwhile, some secrets are surfacing and Laura must begin to unravel the complex history of her family.
As with a lot of Chamberlain novels, this kept me guessing throughout and although I attempted to connect the dots myself, I was still surprised as I neared the end of the story.
Kaip nustebau pati, taip nustebinsiu ir jus – knyga savyje slėpė daug įdomesnes paslaptis.Lora – ištekėjusi už žymiai vyresnio, depresija sergančio vyro, augina penkerių metų dukrelę Emą.
Vos Lora apie tai užsimena savo vyrui, jis kaip įmanydamas bando ją atkalbėti nuo pažado vykdymo.
Sara jai pasakoja apie savo gyvenimą, o jos pasakojimai kuo toliau, tuo labiau šiurpina Lorą.Taip, galbūt toks turinio atpasakojimas atrodo kaip tradicinis tokių romanų turinys, tačiau taip yra dėl to jog nenoriu gadinti jums skaitymo malonumo.
Taip, buvo čia ir ta banali meilės istorija ir galbūt nuspėjamas vaiko likimas, tačiau Saros pasakojimas ir visiškai netikėta jo kulminacija sulygino visus pliusus ir minusus ir iš visko gavusi tikrai stiprus moteriškas romanas, paliesiantis kiekvieną jautresnį skaitytoją.
So the story goes back and forth between visits with the old woman, Sarah (during which she tells her story in flashbacks) and her current-day struggles to get her daughter to speak.
Add to that the re-entry of her daughter's birth father to the picture, and Laura's got a pretty full slate.Sarah's flashbacks were by far the strength of this story, so much so that I'd love to read an entire book about her experiences as a psychiatric nurse in a push-the-boundaries mental hospital in the 1950s.
I LOVED this book.
It starts off grabbing you immediately and I just figured the interest would wan in the middle somewhere.
But that never happened and it held my interest throughout.
It covered many interesting fields including psychiatry.
In the 1950's some psychiatrists were experimenting with various drugs as well as doing lobotomies.
They also were using headphones with tapes as some form of brainwashing.
All of this I found very interesting.
One character was a nurse in this type of hospital and she questioned their procedures which resulted in being threatened and watched over.
What more can I say, I really loved it.
Solid but predictable mystery..., January 28, 2010 After reading a few of Diana Chamberlain's more recent novels, including my favorite, The Secret Life of CeeCee Wilkes, I could tell immediately when I started this one that I was reading one of her earlier books.
That's not to say that this novel isn't good, it is -- but it is a fairly predictable story and the revelations at the end come as no surprise to any mystery reader.
It's a story of family relationships including great love and loss and getting answers.
Cute book, nice drama, complicated situation.
Really liked that the characters are not perfect, act in questionable ways (Laura confronting Dylan, Laura's father keeping such secrets), feel remorse for it, get hurt.
Chamberlain has a gift for making an outlandish situation come realistically to life.
Liked the Dylan character and the psychiatrist.
I did not see the last twist coming, thought it was a bit too much.
I hated the book cover, it was this garish red and gold affair with an antebellum mansion in the middle, it couldn't have been farther from the plot, whats wrong with a little girl on the cover?
Fantastic plot, although quite a slow execution. Diane Chamberlain always draws very compelling characters, and Breaking the Silence was no different.
I really enjoyed this book - I didn’t read the synopsis before starting the book so there were some big surprises early on. I think 5 stars may be a little generous, but I’d go with 4.5. So many twists and turns and connections - very enjoyable.
Diane Chamberlain has the power of creating an emotional and deep-wrecked stories than anyone I've ever read and second, what keeps me sticking to her books is the fact that she always provide the readers with new things to learn regarding history, places & medical stuffs and in BTS, Chamberlain dealt with the issue of mental illness, particularly on the patients, the inhumane treatments (Eg: Lobotomy) in the past (1950-1960) and how mental illness was portrayed in the eyes of ignorants - who thought that mental illness isn't a real disease.
Even though I felt the plot was a bit unrealistic and a little too far fetched at times, I really really really loved the whole story and how it ended.
They have a five-year-old daughter named, Emma.A few minutes after eleven on Christmas night, Laura receives a phone call from the nurse at the hospital where her father, Carl Brandon, is currently dying of cancer.
Carl became more and more agitated saying: “Take care…promise…promise!!” Upset by his panic, Laura grabbed both of Carl’s hands and promised him she’d take care of her.
Laura, on the other hand, felt obligated to visit this woman and start caring for her especially since it was her Dad’s last death bed wish and she had promised him.
This book reminds me a little of Jodi Picoult’s subject matter as highlights (muteness, suicide, and Alzheimer’s, the mentally ill, and other controversial topics).
A heartbreaking story about a dying father’s wish for his daughter Laura to locate a woman in a retirement home with Alzheimer’s with no clue of the relation or connection (which he has been funding for years) with warnings and threats from others to stay away.
Rather far-fetched and a little too "happily ever after, everything tied up in a neat litle bow" for my taste, told in well-written if generic prose, this novel nevertheless was a fast and entertaining read.
I'm not terribly fond of children or books with children as main characters, but Ms. Chamberlain graciously refrained from making 5 year old Emma overly cutesy and precocious.
Of course, it probably doesn't hurt that Emma was silent for nearly the entire book.
Dylan is less so, a muted and sensitized-for-the-21st-century version of your typical Romance novel male lead, with the usual Painful Past that holds his heart prisoner until The Right Woman comes along.
and it turns out she was right because a close relationship builds up between the three of them.Both Emma, the young daughter, and Sarah, the lady in a nursing home have secrets and Laura tries her hardest to listen and help both through the process of finding their voice again.
I hated reading about the experiments on real people in the psychiatric hospital especially as I knew it was based on truth but mainly because I work with children and young people who may have been seen as suitable for these experiments.All in all a superb book which ties everything together at the end.
Eileens bookclub choice - I enjoyed the quick flow of the book and the easy reading for a change with a good storyline.
Missing bookclub and I would love to have discussed the undertone of this book which is true guilt and felt guilt.
Dylan has guilt of a plane crash, not his fault Gilbert (Ray) has guilt for what his work did to a child's familyLaura's father has guilt for keeping a secret of daughters rootsLaura has guilt for working too muchSarah has guilt for not doing more for her patientsEmma has guilt for causing her father to commit suicideDoes it also ring true of wrong place, right time or that things happen for a reason beyond us....Well done on relaying Alzheimers symptoms in my opinion.
I thought I had this story all figured out, but the author completely surprised me with the direction it took, a completely different direction than I had imagined.
Kudos to her for that, as I always dislike a story being way too predictable.
It would be wonderful if life really turned out that way most of the time.
So it's nice to have books like this to make people like me keep hope alive that that everything will turn out good in the end and everyone will find exactly what they're looking for.
My opinion of this book seems to differ from most of the reviews I've read. I thought I had read this book before but couldn't remember the ending. Now I know why. For me, the ending was just unbelievable. There were parts of this book that were endearing and very interesting and the storyline was genius, but the conclusion just didn't work for me.
Wow! Wow! This is going to be another favorite for me. The suspense, the love, the confusion, the heartache and heartwarming feel of it. I can't wait to discuss this one at book group. Diane has a style of writing that is effortless but at the same time gives so much power and emotion. What a story!!
This is a good story with unexpected turns that save it from cliche. I do not, however, recommend the audio version. The narrator is good with voices of the different characters, but she uses an annoying whisper for the general narration.
For me it was just an ok read.
Easy read with a happy ending! I liked the unexpected twist. Not sure why I didn't see it coming!!!
An intriguing story from the beginning.As Carl Brandon lay dying on a hospital bed, he made his daughter Laura promise to "look after" a woman named Sarah Tolley.
Laura has no idea who this woman is and is tempted to ignore her promise to her father, but clearly the request was extremely important to him.Laura discovers that Sarah is living in an assisted living unit and in the early stages of Alzheimer's.
I will mention one thing....There is a conversation in the book where someone asks, "Does she still have Alzheimer's?" An unbelievably ignorant question.
Tai jau antroji autorės knyga, kurią perskaičiau su didžiausiu malonumu ir įkvėpimu.
Galbūt šis skaitymo procesas vyko taip greitai todėl, kad ji turi panašumų su viena mėgstamiausių autorių Jodi Picoult, o ir gvildenamos temos labai panašios.
Ši knyga "Nutraukta tyla" yra net geresnė už mano prieš tai skaitytą "Tėvas ir duktė".
Nors tai pasakojimas apie meilę, šeimą, išdavystę ir žmonių tarpusavio santykius, bet jame nestinga įtampos, intriguojančių psichologinių įžvalgų ir žinoma, meilės istorijos.
Autorė labai sumaniai rutulioja dvi pasakojimo linijas: vaiko tylėjimo ir blėstančių senyvos moters prisiminimų genamos jos abi pina sudėtingą meilės ir nusivylimo, drąsos ir nenusakomo blogio kupiną gyvenimo istoriją.
Initially, I struggled to get into "Breaking the silence" and even found it a little slow in places.
From around half way through I couldn't put the book down and I was left guessing as to why Ray took his life until the very end.
The characters are easy to relate to and warm too and the plot a deep and heart rending one.Some of it was a little predictable and maybe a bit too cut and dried for me.
(I'm just someone who enjoys needing to ask questions at the end) But all in, I enjoyed this novel.
