https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125423.The_Very_Quiet_Cricket
The Very Quiet Cricket by Eric Carle is a wonderful short story about a young little cricket who wants to interact with the creatures around him, but he can't figure out how.  Good Morning! whizzed a locust,spinning through the air.The little cricket wanted to answer,so he rubbed his wings together.But nothing happened. Not a sound. The text repeats the same message repeatedly, until the end when the cricket surprises himself with a sweet chirp. Our book actually makes a chirping sound at the en
The Very Quiet Cricket by Eric Carle is a wonderful short story about a young little cricket who wants to interact with the creatures around him, but he can't figure out how.
whizzed a locust,spinning through the air.The little cricket wanted to answer,so he rubbed his wings together.But nothing happened.
The text repeats the same message repeatedly, until the end when the cricket surprises himself with a sweet chirp.
Our book actually makes a chirping sound at the end!
Carle's illustrations, as usual, are bright and beautiful and the story is very simple to read.
It's no wonder Eric Carle's books are so cherished by young children.
I can't stand the sound of cricket's. So at the start of the book when the cricket was quiet, I thought that was wonderful. The sound machine in the book didn't work so I didn't get to hear that. I love the art work. It is fantastic. I think the story is fun even if it is about a nasty cricket. The nephew did have fun with this book. He gave it 5 stars as well. Eric is quite the artist.
A chirpy read for the toddlers! A small cricket finds himself in a situation where he can't interact with the elder crickets! The kids will love this one.
The Very Quiet Cricket by Eric Carle, published 1990.Fiction.Picture book.Pre-K to grade 1.Found via School Library Journal, reviewed by Starr LaTronica.One day, a cricket is born, and he goes out into the world, meeting new insects who all make noises in greeting to him.
This continues throughout the book, every time the cricket meets a new insect, until he meets a lovely female cricket at the end.
When the final page is turned, the cricket--aided through technology--chirps.
Without it, the final outcome is flat and anticlimactic, and the text becomes tediously repetitive.
The pictures very much tell you that thesis an Eric Carle book and the writing follows the same paths as his other books.Its a light feel good book for your baby/toddler. My twins certainly like the bright colours used in the pictures.
A maioria dos livros de Eric Carle contém histórias simples e é através da repetição de palavras ou acções que o ilustre ilustrador dá realce às mensagens que através das obras quer transmitir aos seus leitores.
Este álbum publicado no romper da década de 1990, e agora apresentado ao público português, numa tradução de Ana M.
Noronha, não foge ao seu modus operandi.«Num dia de calor, de um ovo minúsculo nasceu um pequeno grilo.» Assim tem início esta história, de um recém-nascido grilo que dada a sua fragilidade não consegue ainda cricrilar, e assim, fica impedido de interagir com outros insectos.
I read "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" by Eric Carle to my son when he was between the ages of 2-4 years old.
This book is no different in the fact it has depth, even a philosophical atmosphere and is relatable, it's especially very relatable to my son living with autism.
He could relate to the cricket struggling inside to socialize with others, wanting to say something in response, but no sound coming out, a silent outcry, an experience my son knows all too well.
Something we all can relate to.
Kids loved the ending, though this may be due to how repetitious it got there. Perhaps this would be a good book to encourage the children to respond with 'Nothing Happened... not a sound' page after page after page.Also different voices for each of the insects might shake things up a bit.
Like all of Eric Carle's books, the illustrations are immediately recognizable as his, while the text builds in the familiar, repetitive style that he often uses. I'm not sure if this one has a broader "message" that some of the others do (i.e., The Ouchy Grouchy Ladybug, The Very Busy Spider) but maybe I'm missing something.
All of Eric Carle's books are PERFECT reads for all kids!!!!!!!!
First, Carle (or his publicist?) inflates the importance of his story: "In The Very Quiet Cricket Mr. Carle chooses a lowly insect as the hero, but beyond the simple story of a cricket finding his voice, it is a story 'about love and survival of all living things--crickets and humankind.'" Really?
Close the book now and your cricket's chirp will have a long life.
The version we read included no such recording, meaning Carle's closing statement made no sense to us.In the end, Sigourney thought the drawings were pretty and enjoyed pointing at the insects.
With each page, readers are able to predict what will happen due to the repetitive line “The little cricket wanted to answer, so he rubbed his wings together.
Not a sound.” This repetitive style makes this book a great read for pre-k up to first grade students.
This inability to speak out continues throughout the story until the cricket meets a fellow female cricket and finally makes a beautiful sound for the very first time.
The front cover of this book is intriguing to readers as it features only a large close-up of the Very Quiet Cricket.
I read this book countless times as a child.
I can remember getting ready for bed and waiting patiently for the sound of the cricket.
Eric Carle's books are wonderful for sequencing lessons and this book does not disappoint.
Students can share the order in which the animals tried to speak to the cricket and can even create their own book.
Again, Carle uses exquisitely textured illustrations that bring life into the art.
With illustrations mimicking finger paint, even young students are able to create mentor pieces of art.
this was such a calming book to read, we even watched the video. it has such a nice calm feel to it. great for if you are exploring different types of bugs. After this book and watching the video with it, we talked about kinds of bugs we see outside at our school and if we have ever seen any at home. I also included what types of buys can be dangerous! ahh
This was charming, but almost every book in the library was broken so we couldn't hear the cricket sounds at the end. It was worth it though to look through a bazillion so we could find one that worked.Lovely little story, lovely little moral, lovely, lovely, lovely.
A bit repetitive, but I would have given it an extra star if there had been some explanation about why the cricket couldn't make a noise until the girl. Is there a maturation period after hatching? Do male crickets only chirp for girls? Of was it a made up conflict with an abrupt resolution?
Ok story, but obnoxious alarm clock sound at the end is not very crickety
This is my favorite Eric Carle book so far. I love when the luna moth flies over and he enjoys the stillness.
I'm not sure how important that really is, but I thought it was something worth mentioning.This is a simple children's book which follows the tried and true method of thrusting a protagonist into existence and sending him on a journey where he will encounter a new character on each page who will either teach a lesson or make evident the protagonist's flaws and encourage in some way that he sort out his issues and rise to the top.
This story takes the latter approach, giving us a newborn cricket who is unable to sing with his legs (I guess nobody told him to hit puberty first).It's simple form, and the book does nothing horrendous with the concept.
This happens multiple times until he meets a girl cricket that is also very quiet and when he rubs his wings together this time, he makes a sound.Professional Recommendation/Review #1: Debra Briatico (Children's Literature) This delightful picture book tells the story of a quiet cricket who makes his way into the world, meeting one insect after another.
(PUBLISHER: Philomel Books (New York:), PUBLISHED: c1990.)Professional Recommendation/Review #2: CCBC (Cooperative Children's Book Center Choices, 1990) A multi-sensory cumulative story features a little cricket which meets, sees and hears the sounds of other insects while it is trying to learn how to chirp.
Another cute book explaining how a cricket makes noise.
A little cricket is born and when he's greeted by a big cricket, and then by other insects, he can't seem to make a sound. He keeps trying until he meets a special cricket.
Personally, I love all of the different colors and shapes incorporated into the illustrations, I think that they compliment the simple story line well.In a classroom setting, I would love to use a repetition book (such as this one) to teach children about repetition or to inspire a Carle-themed art project (maybe we could make our own hungry caterpillars!).
However, I do think that it would be a great book to have in a quiet reading area or to have at home to inspire independent reading (because of the repetition, I think that it would be easier for children to read independently, thus building their confidence as a reader).
The first time I noticed abut this book was the bright colors and the size of the illustrations.
As soon as you open the book, the reader is met with a bright colored page of scribbles.
As I child I loved this sort of artwork, and to this day really appreciate anything that promotes creative thinking.
I think this is easily relatable to children that may be reading this book.
I think children can feel like a small thing in a big world sometimes, so this is easily relatable.As the story begins it is daytime, and by the end of the book it is night.
His books are beautifully illustrated with lovely stories; The Very Quiet Cricket did not disappoint.
Carle tells the story of a newborn cricket who cannot say hello.
The young cricket encounters many creatures and as they say hello, he finds that no matter how hard he tries, he cannot say anything back.
At the end of the book, Carle has inserted a small device that play a cricket chirping when the young cricket finally succeeds in saying hello.
I believe this book would be a great addition to a first or second grade lesson on crickets or simply in a science lesson on wildlife.
The book is also very informative for young kids as it takes the read from insect to insect describing their different characteristics and behavioral methods.
The story mainly focuses on the little cricket who rubs his wings together every time he meets new insect friends.
The little cricket finally at the end of the books meets another cricket and feels better because he knows that the other cricket won’t think it is weird when he rubs his wings together to communicate because they both have the same communication style.
All of his animal and insect friends keep saying hello to him and he tries his hardest to rub his legs together but he just cant make the sound.
The little cricket is about to give up and he doesnt think hes ever going to learn how to chirp.The illustrations in this book are done by watercolor and paint.
Each insect is a different color which creates a bright and happy story.
The use of watercolors make the illustrations very delicate, yet interesting.
I recommend this story because it has simple yet creative illustrations.
He finds another cricket one night and tries to talk to her and he succeeds and makes the most beautiful sound.Comments/observations: This books reading level is kindergarten through third grade.
After reading this book I would ask them something that they can do now that they could not do at the beginning of the year or when they were younger.
I think I could also use this book to talk about what it means to be quiet an loud.
After that we could talk about times when we need to be quiet and then practice classroom and school etiquette.
The very quiet cricket.
Patterned/ Predictable Books:Similar to The Very Hungry Caterpillar, Eric Carle creates another masterpiece -- this time about a little cricket.
And, unfortunately, almost every time, the little cricket is unable to reply until he meets a female cricket and finally makes noises.Carle sets the plot in a patterned and predictable sequence, where the bugs come in one at a time to greet the little cricket.
For instance, a big cricket first greets the main character.
The illustration provides the large cricket at the center of the page and Carle writes, “‘Welcome!’ chirped a big cricket, rubbing his wings together.
The Very Quiet Cricket follows a lonesome cricket who tries to communicate with all the other insects and animals around him, just he just cant figure out how. Then he meets another cricket and together they make beautiful cricket noises. The reading level for this book is kindergarten through 3rd grade.  Comments/observations:  Like with all of Carle’s books there is an interactive element and I thoroughly enjoy them. The interactive element within this book is the cricket noise that can be pla
The Very Quiet Cricket follows a lonesome cricket who tries to communicate with all the other insects and animals around him, just he just cant figure out how.
The interactive element within this book is the cricket noise that can be played at the end of the book when the cricket finally learns how to make the noise.
I would read this book out loud to the students at the end of the year, and then ask students to share one accomplishment they have achieved throughout the school year that they couldn’t do in the beginning.
