https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318617.Serenade_to_the_Big_Bird
For the foot soldier, these reasons are often close-at-hand: inhuman circumstances, survival, and duty all play their parts.But place the writer 20,000 feet in the air, where the war is conducted almost by exchanges of luck between targets that are miles apart, and that perspective changes.
It is this unique perspective of war that Stiles brings to his readers.From that big-world perspective, while flying missions that sometimes took upwards of 10 hours to complete, a significant amount of time was at hand.
He tried to reconcile ideas that formed from his vantage point, where the entire world could be easily seen as a single place but the people of this place were killing each other en masse.
In its 207 pages, it fully and richly conveys the thoughts and feelings of the author, a young American bomber pilot enraptured with the beauty of flying coupled with the sheer terror of combat in the central blue.
The author describes death as "sometimes lovely...
Stiles speaks candidly and in earnest about his life, his squadron mates, and the pressures of trying to keep sane and complete one's combat tour.
Any crew who completed a tour was given a reprieve from combat and earned the right to return safely to the U.S., job well done.
IntenseMr Stiles paints a clear description of his role in WWII as a bomber pilot. His thoughts are very relevant today as they were then.He's a very deep thinker and isn't afraid to let see how war effects everyone. Great book.
This is a great book.
Mr. Stiles made me feel like I was there.
He made me get a little bit of a sense of what it was like to be a US airman in England during WWII.
As I read he seemed just like a regular guy.
I can remember thinking he thinks about things I may have thought about.
Mr. Stiles and thousands of others like him were the heroes of WWII.
Mr. Stiles did not survive the war.
That is so sad and adds to the importance of reading this book.
Mr. Stiles would have had a great future.
An amazing book.
As he would probably put it "One man ran through his luck, and got it."What a loss to literature and readers who love a good yarn well told!
Still rough around the edges in this book, Mr. Stiles displays limitless potential with his ability to paint a picture with words; stream of consciousness style; and sometimes lyrical phrasing.
Grab this book and read it - then mourn the loss of a young man who might have become a wonderful writer.
This book is really not a serenade to the B-17 nor an account of the authors’ missions so much as it is an expression of the author’s philosophy of politics and economics.
If you are looking for a book purely on the military aspects of flying with the 8th Air Force in the latter part of World War II this is not the book you’re looking for.
Similarly, if you’re looking for a book on politics and economics from the standpoint of the war years this not the book.
It does, however, hang together well enough to be a fairly quick read.
Not a horrible book, but too much wandering around and philosophy. Very little about the actual missions, especially about "D" Day. It seems sad that the Army let Stiles, who had been sent to the Flack House extend after he completed his 35 missions to fly P-51's and eventually be killed in combat. I don't think that he was that great a pilot in the 17, as he was never upgraded to mission pilot.
The Intellectual FlierUntil I read this book, I had never heard of Bert Stiles, but since I've read this book, I don't think I will ever forget him. He is an intellectual thrown into the war in a dangerous job; a job that didn't have good odds of coming home. Yet, he has the thinking man's perspective about the war, and the life he hopes for should he survive the war. Probably the best book I have read about the individual in war.
Very good readingAwesome history of a co pilot on a B-17. The writing done during ww2 gives the reader an account of some of the trauma and stress of making it through 35 missions. The story ends abruptly because the author decided after flying bombers, he wanted to fly fighters over Germany. A very interesting story by an absolute hero.
A stupid boring readJust a lot of mindless blather. The worst war story book I have read. The author comes across as a person I would never wat to !EEPoorly written, no continuity, no effort to draw the reader into the story. I did not finish as there are so many well written first person war story books. This book is largely mindless blather.
These guys were true herosVery was not only a pilot but also a poet and philosopher. He gives us his thoughts and feelings about not only the war but about many other things going on at the time.
Interesting as the writer is obviously not an 'amazing' pilot, just a real middling guy doing the job. I found this account refreshing, as usually these accounts focus around the 'hero/decorated' pilots.
Read this book and live this storyThis author touches your heart in every way...You will laugh, maybe cry and you will never think the same way again about anything. He doesn't just bring the war to you, he brings you into the war....*****
World War II StoryA good story of a bomber crew in England. I don't know anything about the author, but he seems very young in his exposition about life and education and so on. But it it a good book about the life and feelings of a pilot.
Real account of one man's tour in the 8th Air Force.The 8th Air Force lost more men in the skies of Europe than the Marines in the Pacific and the eventual air superiority allowed the allies to move I to and defeat GermanyThis is o e man's account of his experience flying B17 Flying Fortresses over the Reich .The roller coaster experience of life or death missions and warm beds show the dichotomy faced daily, when your name on a blackboard may mean your last hours.....
An emotionally insightful personal account of a citizen soldier. Reveals the inner thoughts of a young man not desiring to fly, fight and win typical of many personal accounts, rather of a man called to duty, contemplating so many reasons why, and enduring.
Interesting book.Good view of what our young fliers went through in WWII. A tragic episode of air war at it's worst.
Good readVery human. The narrative lost me some times with too much personal melancholy but overall touching. Definitely worth the time.
Interesting and different kind of war book.I liked this book as a writer. Not yet sure what to think of it as a war book. Good books can take time to digest.
More than your average war memoirsWell written and thoroughly engaging. Would highly recommend. Will b seeking out more of his work . A true talent.
A Great,Thoughtful ReadA great piece of wartime thought by someone who saw it from the platform of a great airplane. Bert Stiles is one of the best.
A humanist perspective on war from a ww2 bomber pilot
Memphis Belle. If you have seen the movie, you know why you read. Looking forward to reading the sequel. An enjoyable read, good for the mountains or beach.
Excellent !!
Excellent bookWhile I was a child during WWII, Our family had many close relatives fighting. We knew they went through Hell and kept on fighting. Clearly, this book is an example of the thoughts and courage of our military people who fought. They have kept silent for over 60 years. Finally their experiences are surfacing. They are what made America great, and still do.
Advertised as an account of life on a B-17 flight crewPurchased the book to learn about life on a B-17 flight crew. First half of book read like a loosely organized, factual account of wartime experiences. Second half of book read more like a stream of consciousness rambling on diverse topics and made me wonder if this was a factual account.
Good readNice reading the personal side of the air crews in world war II. The writting was hard to put down
One great book.I could actually feel for those guys in those planes, what courage it must have taken to crawl into those planes after seeing their best friend shot out of the air. I would call all these men true heroes. God bless them all.
The heavy bomber groups during WW 2 took heavy losses and this memoir gives the reader a pretty clear picture of the lives of those young men.
Filled with the optimism of youth and the daily horrors of the air war, these guys held in a state of limbo mentally and physical exhaustion.
This existence sometimes gave these fliers an advanced wisdom with moments of clarity for their future should they survive their required missions.
Several times in this narrative I was transferred to those past moments.
For these times and more the book proved a very good read filled with historical insights.
Bert Takes Us Along for the Ride With great clarity and emotion, Bert Stiles takes us along for a ride on a B17 at war.
His touching memoir on the lives of the men of his 8th Air Force squadron delivers the story of these heroes during a time of danger with great clarity, skill and pathos.
The reader is delivered a story of these brave men during an extraordinary time.
We are so much better off for this story and it can only build on our respect for the achievements of these men.
But, we have his story here to read, appreciate and give our respect.
