https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10332.Mandy
This was one of my favorite books when I was younger, and I JUST FIGURED OUT THAT IT WAS WRITTEN BY JULIE ANDREWS
It was fairly easy to find - the title was a big help - and I ordered her a copy saying that I would read it myself before delivering it to her at our next meeting.So, I just finished it after reading the bulk of it today (pgs 82-304).
When my boyfriend found me he implored our cat to "stay away from that book because it will make you sad." Not sad, really, just a feeling of kinship.Mandy is a little, 10-year-old girl living her days in an orphanage.
This is one of the most warm, comforting, emotionally moving stories for kids and if you are smart to toss aside meaningless labels, for adults as well.Mandy is 10 years old and something of a loner at the orphanage where she has lived most of her life.
We see her desperate need for the cottage and I thoroughly enjoyed reading about the garden, animals, and work Mandy did to make it a special place.Troubles come- she is caught stealing, she breaks some borrowed shears, she gets grounded, Sue discovers her secret place- and then- the property is purchased just as a mysterious stranger begins doing things at the cottage and leaving her notes.
I bought and read this book because I’m a huge Julie Andrews fan. I also love orphan stories; I’ve even designated a Goodreads shelf for orphan books. Anyway, this one really touched my heart and it’s a really well written and interesting story. Deserves to be a classic.
Mandy lives in an orphanage.
It is a nice place but Mandy longs for a place of her own.
Mandy finds an abandoned cottage and makes it her own.
Part of the book I changed as I read aloud.
Personally I found a young girl being sent gifts and letters from an anonymous man who signed himself from 'an admirer' unsuitable so changed this to 'from a friend'.I think I would have enjoyed this much more as a child and more than my daughter did as I loved to read about making a home or finding parents.
This book has some lovely parts.
Julie Andrews Edwards of Mary Poppins fame grew up to be an author. Who would have thought? This charming, lovely tale is very reminiscent of The Little Princess or The Secret Garden. Mandy, an orphan, one day peeks over the orphanage wall to discover a seemingly abandoned cottage and is soon embarking on an adventure that will enthrall readers young and old. Mandy, Ms. Andrews-Edwards 2nd novel, is a beautifully written, joyous story.
Is anything more satisfying than reading about someone else doing a lot of tidying up?
This book was one of my all time favorites as a kid.
I loved the romance of finding a cottage, cleaning it up, and calling it my own.
It affected me enough that I named my own daughter Amanda and she prefers "Mandy".
I have an elderly friend that was a hoarder.
When I was trying to sort through her stuff, I'd try to imagine I was living the story and just 'cleaning things up a bit', instead of the reality of being a hoarder's friend.
Made things marginally better.
I think this story should be made into a movie.
I read this long ago as a child and decided it was high time for a reread as my memories of it are so fond. It is a sweet, heartfelt tale of a little orphan girl who is looking for a place of her own. But what she really wants (of course) is a family of her own. It captured my imagination as a child and delighted me as an adult. I really enjoyed reading this book again. :)
Upon climbing the wall, Mandy discovers a cottage and a whole world that she makes her own.What a beautiful book.
I came across it the other day and thought it might be a good book to give my almost 7-year-old niece, but I thought I should read it first.
Some of the emotion might go over the child's head, but that wouldn't take away from the lovely story.It was SO wonderful to reread this book.
This time, I saw how much that cottage and garden were Mandy's attempt at having a place (and, in a way, a family) to call her own.Such a great book.
It's one of the best books I've ever read. And it seems even more exciting because my mom already had read it to me once. It's about a little girl, 10 years old, like me - except she's an orphan - and she wants something of her own. She finds a little cottage in the woods and makes it her own but no one knows about it. At the end something very exciting happens, but I"m not going to tell you or it would ruin the story! - Margret age 10
This is one of those books that you just wish would go on forever, amazing interesting story of a orphan girl, and a very happy ending. Would recommend to anyone!
This was so charming and sweet! I loved it and it reminded me of The Secret Garden.
Behind the Attic Wall is a story about a fifth-grade girl, and we get snatches of Maggie’s thoughts, but we’re not in her head as much as we’re in Mandy’s.
There’s not a lot of intro time; we’re told straight out what Mandy’s situation is, and then we go right into her finding her secret little cottage.
(Although then Edwards goes and uses what seem like sort of big words for the reading level the sentence structure is aimed at, so I’m not sure what to think there.)Which maybe is understandable in a book aimed at “young readers”, but… I don’t know.
As the book goes on she continues to sneak off to the magical land.
This experience changed Mandy as a person because when we first met her character she was very lonely now this new place she calls home is her best friend and helps fill her heart with more happiness.
Throughout the book I became to love Mandy as a character, her emotions were really easy to connect with and only drew you further into the book.
Overall this has been one of my all time favorite books, it gives you pleasure to read along with a magical experience.
This was one of my absolute "favorite" books when I first began reading chapter books. Later on, in high school and maybe even the beginning of college (pre-Amazon) I searched everywhere for this book to re-read but it was out of print. This year, I finally received a copy as a Christmas present and am SO excited! <3
This book is so warm and idealistic and lovely. When I was younger, I wanted a cottage just like Mandy's--I still do, actually, though I don't think I could put in the grueling effort of caring for it day after day like she did!This story was one of my favorites as a child, one that makes you feel content and cozy and pleased. Always a pleasure to revisit.
I thought that Mandy was okay but did not full fill my expectations as much as I thought it would The author, Julie Edwards I believe acted in Mary Poppins, The Sound of Music and many other films. She was a great actor but not the best writer. Some people think they can do everything..................
This book was okay :) More for 9-10 year olds though and a bit boring....
Kathryn (age 8) says this is the best book ever!
We have been working through this as a read aloud for our family this summer. Every night we would read it, my kids would beg for another chapter. We really felt invested in Mandy and her well-being. There were also many moral questions (appropriate for my kids age, such as "was she right to lie"?) that made good additional talking points. I would highly recommend reading this as a family!
I read this several times as a child. Saw it at the library and had to read it again. Such a wonderful story of an orphan making a home for herself in an abandoned cottage and the possibility of becoming part of a family. Please read. You will like it.
It was a cute children's book. A little predictable, but very fun. I enjoyed it.
I love this book! It is an amazing story of adventure and joy as an orphan styles a home she found in the woods. I think this is a great choice to read and a great book!
This may be my fav book
I bought this for my young daughter but I read it when I needed something quick and available to read. It was such a breath of fresh air. A story that I am sure E will love reading and delight in Mandy finding what her heart longs most for.
Loved this in elementary school, hope to share with my daughter in a few years
This was one of my favorite books as a kid. I think I read it at about 10 and it was one of the first young adult novels I completed. I remember being enchanted.
My 6th grade niece shared this book with me and said it was one of her favorites. I read it in one day and found myself tearing up--a really lovely story about a young orphan who discovers a secret cottage and sets out to make it her own. Great for 4th graders and up!
First sentence: On the outskirts of a pretty country village called St. Martin's Green, there stand a large, white house called St. Martin's orphanage.Premise/plot: Mandy, the heroine, is a ten year old orphan.
Soon after the novel opens, Mandy climbs over the wall near the orphanage and discovers a hidden-away-in-the-woods cottage.
Years before I discovered The Secret Garden, I was best friends with Mandy.
I think I loved Mandy because she may have been the first heroine who dealt with some of the darker (but natural) emotions like sadness, loneliness, and disappointment.
Her attempts to keep busy were mostly an effort to fill her life so that she had no time to feel disconsolate.
