https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227865.The_Eternity_Code
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: Wherein characters edge toward the brink of life-altering change, (view spoiler)[only to stop and revert at the last possible moment (hide spoiler)].
The Eternity Code (Artemis Fowl #3), Eoin Colferتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ژانویه سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: آرتمیس فاول و رمز ابدی - کتاب سوم؛ نویسنده: ایون کالفر؛ مترجم: شیدا رنجبر؛ تهران، افق، 1384؛ شابک: 9643691721؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ چاپ چهارم 1387؛آرتمیس فاول، نوجوان نابغه و ماجراجو، با قطعات کلاهخودها و سلاحهایی که به غنیمت گرفته، یک میکرو کامپیوتر میسازد، که از فناوری انسانها برتر است. سپس تصمیم میگیرد اختراع تازه ی خود را به «جان اسپرو»، یکی از صاحبان صنایع، که با مافیا هم سر و سری دارد بف
The Eternity Code (Artemis Fowl #3), Eoin Colferتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ژانویه سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: آرتمیس فاول و رمز ابدی - کتاب سوم؛ نویسنده: ایون کالفر؛ مترجم: شیدا رنجبر؛ تهران، افق، 1384؛ شابک: 9643691721؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ چاپ چهارم 1387؛آرتمیس فاول، نوجوان نابغه و ماجراجو، با قطعات کلاهخود‌ها و سلاح‌هایی که به غنیمت گرفته‌، یک میکرو کامپیوتر می‌سازد، که از فناوری انسان‌ها برتر است.
سپس تصمیم می‌گیرد اختراع تازه ی خود را به «جان اسپرو»، یکی از صاحبان صنایع، که با مافیا هم سر و سری دارد بفروشد.
What I love about Artemis Fowl is that, unlike Harry Potter, good things don't just happen to him because he was born special.
Things happen his way because he's smart - he thinks ahead and he always out-plans his opponent.
I've always loved books about an invincible kid hero.
(think: Ender) But don't read these books looking for Ender.
:-) Artemis is a criminal who makes just enough truly good decisions to keep him interesting all the way through.The first book was a little harder for me to get into.
So much action, twists, turns, and death!
I also just really love Artemis as a character - but I think I might have a new favorite: MULCH!Okay, so I'm not going to lie..
this book definitely took me on a whirlwind kind of adventure.
I definitely almost cried during some scenes but I was so happy with the overall turnout.I'm still shocked that Artemis is around 13 years old and outsmarting so many people.
I loved the ending of this book though.
I love Artemis and Butler together.
Mulch is my favorite because he insults people from time to time.
They would be too scared    Artemis, invents a supercomputer which no human can think of.
can do) The name of his invention is C Cube.
Artemis uses the things which his bodyguard confiscated from fairies in the first book.
Now, as always, Artemis wants fortune.
Again!In this book Artemis hadn't had his bodyguard for help.
Artemis was on his own.
This time, again, Artemis teamed up with Fairies to regain the C Cube.
Fairies was also threatened by the C Cube for a reason.
'Nuff said.
Mind Blowing Technology, sarcastic centaurs, A kleptomaniac Dwarf, a 13 year old criminal Genius, a crippled body guard, faries and tight security sky scrappers.
The gadget, and Artemis are being held in the Spiro Needle- an impossibly tall skyscraper- and the most secure in the country.
Captain Holly Short (The fairy), Mulch Diggums (The dwarf) and Juliet Butler (the body guard-in training) must break into the Spiro-Needle and free Artemis and his gadget.
It will be much harder then it sounds… This book is packed with Action, adventure, friendship, and a smart joke will be found on almost every page.
4 stars  "The world will remember the name of Artemis Fowl." This book had me engrossed. Though not as good as the first one this was still a masterpiece. The action, character development and ingenious designs of the boy genius had me on the edge of my seat. Will be forever grateful for this series.
Artemis is still being a criminal genius, but his conscience is being impacted by his father's return and new lease on life, and his association with the Faery people.
When his latest scheme results in a tragic outcome to one of his beloved companions and powerful fae technology falling into the hands of a megalomanic, immoral tech billionaire, he has his work cut out for him getting it back.I still love the concept of a teenage super-genius would-be villain.
I love his bodyguard, Domovoi Butler, so some things that happened to him weren't my favorite.
“And one more thing. About my name — Artemis — you were right. In London, it is generally a female name, after the Greek goddess of archery. But every now and then a male comes along with such a talent for hunting that he earns the right to use the name. I am that male. Artemis the hunter. I hunted you.” Oh, Artemis ! You're such a devious genius little creature and you have my heart for that because why ? YOU JUST MAKE ME CRYThe third book in this installment make me fond of these characters m
About my name — Artemis — you were right.
But every now and then a male comes along with such a talent for hunting that he earns the right to use the name.
Artemis the hunter.
Oh, Artemis !
YOU JUST MAKE ME CRYThe third book in this installment make me fond of these characters much more.
I love how the characters development towards each other.
This book have A LOT of whoa-i-didn't-see-that-coming moments.
It's just so undeniable not to shed any tears because really, I AM IN LOVE WITH THESE CHARACTERS.
and to sums up, I AM TOTALLY SCARED OF WHAT WILL BECOMING OF ARTEMIS.
The author introduces us the plot when Spiro steals the Cube and makes us even more hooked into it when Spiro's bodyguard shoots Butler (Artemis' bodyguard and friend).
In the end however, the author fills us with hopes of reading the next book when yet another of Artemis' great schemes will make him regain it in the future.I recommend this book for everyone, since it really is a good read and when you (or at least I did) finish reading it, you will just wish that it goes on.
For those of you who have read Eoin Colfer's series about Artemis Fowl, you will understand the possibility for addiction.
Books 3 and 4 of the series, The Eternity Code and The Opal Deception, feature Artemis and his bodyguard, Butler, about to pull off the largest technology coup - to sell a technologically advanced computer made with fairy electronics.
Artemis agrees to undergo a mind swipe in order to receive a "healing" for Butler.In the next book, Artemis goes up against Opal Koboi, a fairy genious and criminal, after having his memories restored about the fairy people.
The Eternity Code is the strongest book in the series so far.Artemis has changed from the villainous mastermind 12-year old we met in the first book, but a lot of the things in his life has changed.
Let's just say there were some tears spilled over this book.The plot was simply riveting and I think this is definitely the best book by far, not just in terms of characters, but also writing quality.
I will go on reading the series from here.I do have a couple of questions: a few of times Butler uses his influence to prod Artemis onto the right path?
best one so far
Muuten ehkä paras tekele tästä sarjasta tähän mennessä, mutta vihaan sitä kun kirja päättyy (view spoiler)[ päähenkilön muistinmenetykseen. Voiko ärsyttävämpää lopetusta kirjalle saada? :D (hide spoiler)]
I didn't really like this book as much as the other two. I'm not sure why I think it has something to do with Butler. I did enjoy seeing his sister being a bigger part of the story this time.
So far, my favorite in the series.Artemis has managed to restore both of his parents not only to the land of the living, but to health.
So Artemis and his frienemies in the LEPRecon service must recover the technology and set a false trail so that all forget that fairies existed.Interestingly, in his repeated contact with the LEPRecon staff, Artemis has grown from a spoiled brat with criminal tendencies to a pretty likable, admirable human being.
I think the strongest title in the series to date, once again Artemis and his cronies get in over their heads, abuse fairy technology, drive criminal masterminds up the wall, nearly get their heads put on platters, and have fun in the process!I particularly like how the characters have grown since the first book, but in this one some changes took place that will likely affect future books rather drastically.
Some for the better some for the worse I suspect.
A great read whether you are 10 or 80 and I think this has easily earned a big 5 stars!
Summary: fast paced action, a little humor, the gang is back.
Artemis Fowl gets in trouble trying to use fairy technology to land some cash in a scheme that causes all kinds of serious mayhem.
He and the fairies have to work together to prevent the clash of worlds.
What I appreciate about Eoin Colfer is that his books don't change from juvenile to adult fiction halfway through the series like some other series out there.
My boys have more leisure time and read ahead of me, so with the Artemis Fowl series I don't have to slow them down while I get around to previewing it.
Mulch is the best supporting character in the series. He is witty, clever and shady as hell, but still lovable. The kleptomaniac dwarf stole the show in this book. Artemis fowl decides to build a mini-super computer, C Cube, using the fairy technology. But the plan goes awry when he underestimates an enemy. And the C cube ends up in the hands of Criminal.
this one was for lack of a nicer word boring.but becuase i liked the first two i will try the next one in the series i see if it gets good again.
these books just make me so happy okay
Having read books one to six, I have always liked the Eternity Code best in the Artemis Fowl series.
It’s the first time he is really conflicted, making it a milestone in his character development.As for the plot itself, it’s as good as any in the series, with a couple of big twists, packed with jokes (though maybe a little too many about farting) and a sufficiently slimy, wily villain that is definitely not Opal Koboi.
On the fairy side of things, Holly and Foaly are on form and Mulch’s Mafia time was a change of pace that added real, immediate danger.The humanity-bashing is also lighter than in later books.
I think so, because - for me - I love the characters and each installment seems to focus a little more on the characters, now that the world has been created and the fairy laws don't need constant explanation.
Plus, is it possible that Artemis himself is turning into more of a true hero?
Now, not only is Artemis in danger — but, if Spiro is able to hack the technology, so will be the worlds of both human and fairies.What I loved more than the plot (which was quite entertaining) was the growing relationships between Artemis and Butler, and Artemis, Butler and the fairy folk.
These and other issue form the crux of the Eternity Code's plots.It is a shame really that while I don't like to divulge too much details.
Some semblance of moral fiber(don't kid yourself, it's still Artemis Fowl) with a deeper comprehension of the fallout his schemes inflict.
Not ready to just let things lie.This could have have been called "Artemis Fowl: The Heist" most of the immediate plot revolves around a caper.
Its an Artemis Fowl book after all.
I did find reading about "megabytes" a bit jarring.
The ending is a bit emotional and sets up what I will as Artemis Reloaded.

I'm liking this book series! Overall rating is a 4.5/5!(:
Pex ja Chips on ehkä parhaat sivuidiootit ikinä.
5 maravillosas estrellas, para el mejor libro de la serie :) Si tuviera que recomendarle a alguien un sólo libro de Artemis Fowl, sería éste, el tercero. Principalmente, no sólo porque es muy entretenido y atrapante sino porque se puede leer por si mismo sabiendo lo básico de la historia: Artemis es un chico genio de dudosa moralidad quien, por razones que el en libro se cuentan sucintamente, traba relaciones con unos seres mágicos altamente desarrollados. Estos no sólo poseen magia, sino que t
Para mi es un "stand alone" cuya historia se cierra sobre si misma, por lo que funciona como libro solitario.Esta novela es un claro ejemplo de como una saga que parte siendo sólo una trama ingeniosa y ocurrente, puede evolucionar hasta convertirse en un mundo que, sin dejar de ser muy entretenido, es coherente y bien armado.
La verdad es que no sé como lo hace, pero tiene ciertas partes que conmueven (view spoiler)[[por ejemplo, cuando le borran la memoria a Artemis, específicamente cuando Holly lo encanta y le pregunta si ha escondido alguna referencia de ellos, para recordarlos a pesar de la amnesia.
This 3rd book in the series finds Artemis in a bunch of trouble from his own making.
A business deal involving Faerie technology goes bad - not only was Artemis outsmarted by Jon Spiro and the technology stolen (and thus, the Faerie People's secret in jeopardy), but Butler (his trusted bodyguard and only friend) was mortally wounded.
Artemis must fess up to the People, get the technology back, and ask for the healing help of Captain Holly Short, yet again.
It has no bad language, no hormones, and the violence is typical of books in this age group.
