https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/364062.Pancakes_Pancakes_
Best use of this book may be to first read the book to a child (ages 3-5), letting them take in the pictures and listen to the story, and then after that has been done allow the young learner to attempt the words for themselves as part of their learning to decode text.
When I still worked at the Circulation Desk of my library checking out items for patrons, there was a grandmother who regularly visited with her preschool-aged grandson.
This book, along with a CD of kiddie Christmas tunes, were the only two things the boy would check out.
Out of the thousands of things in our library, this was all he wanted.
The cover would make one think this is the adventure of a smiling pancake, which would be an awesome story.
(You'll be thankful for Bisquick after reading this one!)So really, the best thing about this was the cover.
During this story, readers get the chance to see all of the ingredients that are used with pancakes along with go on the journey of finding them with the boy and his mother.Evaluation: I gave this book a 4.
I think the pictures are very bright and engaging, and gives an opportunity for readers to make many connections between breakfast at their home, and similarities that happen in their families too.Teaching Point: I think this book would be very good for kindergarten or first grade.
We read and shared this during our final week because of a pancake breakfast we enjoyed in my class. Eric Carle is an author all are familiar with, but in my grade level, students begin moving away from his books. However, when eating pancakes, it's always fun to also read about pancakes. In terms of books about pancakes, this is my #2 all-time favorite book, and hey, that has to stand for something!
Here is a story about a boy who wants pancakes for breakfast. It goes into detail how much is involved in getting pankcakes on the breakfast table, starting with the cutting of the wheat and the grounding it up to flour. Plus all the steps to get all the ingredients for pancakes and then to make them.
A very cute book and very educational, too.
Jack woke up, looked out the window and thought, "I'd like to have a big pancake for breakfast."Premise/plot: Jack wants a pancake--a BIG pancake.
This help will include cutting wheat, taking it to the miller in town, having it ground into flour, gathering an egg from a hen, milking a cow, churning butter, and getting a jar of jam from the cellar.
Will Jack enjoy the pancakes more for all the work he invested in it?!My thoughts: I like this one.
I like the text more than the illustrations.
Flour, eggs, and milk don't come from the store.
I really enjoyed this book because it is ideal for teaching procedure to students.
This helps them improve in their writing by encouraging the use of transition words and step-by-step formats.
Transitions seem to be a common problem among many students even in their high school and college years.
This book is also ideal for discussion among younger grade levels.
I like how it illustrates the value of hard work through a story.
The hard work for homework will result in good grades, for example.
It's almost encouraging.
This is my first author study review and is also a picture book.Pancakes, Pancakes!
holds true to Eric Carle's unique style.
The story is somewhat of a spin on The Little Red Hen, as the morale of both stories is that those that work hard are rewarded in the end.
Children from ages 2-10 would enjoy this book.
Carle's beautiful collage illustrations enhance the story even more.
Children would love using his art as models for their own collage art.
Teachers can lead a lesson to compare and contrast Pancakes, Pancakes!
with other Eric Carle books or traditional tales with similar themes.
I love to make reading this book an encounter with cooking! We read, then we make pancakes. Any excuse to eat delicious things, while watching as Judah gets to experience the joy of creating something is 5 stars in my book, and 5 stars for this book. Three cheers for Pancakes, Pancakes!
Love Eric Carle and love this book! What a fantastic story for children to understand where our food comes from.
Wasn't crazy about the character design for our little boy jack, but lots of the other imagery is great, and a bit more sophisticated from what I had also expected from this author.
The part that made me unintentionally laugh out loud was not only that the little kid had to harvest his own wheat and bring it to the miller, he had to beat the wheat with the miller to separate the grains from the chaff!
Something about a kid beating wheat on the ground with a miller to make a breakfast pancake struck me as hilarious.
However, Jack has to go through different measures in order to get the certain ingredients he needs to make pancakes.
Certain measures: Jack has to get - flour from the mill, an egg from the black hen, milk from the spotted cow, butter churned from fresh cream, and firewood for the stoveEvaluation: I rate this book as a 4.
I like how it 'teaches' kids how to make pancakes in a fun and engaging way.
In the beginning, one has a few substances/ingredients that are needed to make pancakes.
Once all of the ingredients are mixed together and heated (cooked with griddle), chemical reactions take place to form something new, pancakes.
Jack has to go step by step to get all the ingredients, such as cutting wheat and taking it to the miller in order to get flour, and collecting an egg form a chicken.
Once he has all the supplies that he needs collected, he works with his mother to make the pancakes.
The text and the illustrations take us step by step on how to make a pancake, before Jack finally finishes making it and gets to eat it.
The illustrations also help show readers the process of making a pancake if they do not completely understand it through the text.
He tells his mother to make them for him but she insists that she will only make them if he takes it upon himself to find all the ingredients.
He keeps coming back inside with what he thinks is all the ingredients from his farm, but she keeps sending him back out for one more thing.
I think that this book is interesting and has a unique premise due to the fact that it basically acts as a cookbook for pancakes.
It tells how much of each ingredient he has to collect and how his mother makes and cooks his pancakes.
He tells his mother, who gives him a number of ingredients to fetch.
He works hard throughout the day harvesting the grain to make flour, milking the cow, churning the butter, and more.
Finally, the mother and son make the pancake together, and (SPOILER ALERT) he gets to eat it.Part of the reason why i loved this book so much is that I love baking--especially breakfast foods!
In all seriousness, though, what I loved most about this book was that it taught the rewards of hard work.
The boy never complained once throughout the entire process!Furthermore, I believe this book is perfect for anyone who wants to teach about persevering, having a good attitude, and being patient.
Summary: This book was about a boy who makes pancakes with his mom and the materials they need to make pancakes.
Readers will see how the boy and his mom gather the ingredients.
Evaluation: I think this book is great for young readers.
For example, readers will connect to what they eat for breakfast or what breakfast food their parents or guardians make for them.Teaching Idea: I would read this book to a kindergarten or first grade class.
An activity can be to recall the sequence of events, like recalling the first ingredient the boy had to get.
This book is a work of fiction and would be great for children between the ages of three and six. This story is about a young boy who has to gather the ingredients to create pancakes. I gave this book five stars because of its amazing illustrations, the colors used are very bright and vibrant and they have a collage like quality to them. I think young readers would enjoy reading this book because it shows step by step how pancakes are made from scratch and this book would be great for teaching procedure to young children.
This book is about a boy who wakes up and wants to eat a big pancake.
He goes to his mother and his mother tells him each ingredient he needs.
He goes and acquires all the ingredients and they can finally make the pancake together.I think this is a cute story, and very simple and easy to read.
This book would be fun to use in a classroom to teach kids about where some things come from.
Kids probably don't realize that all the food you need to make things just magically appears in the grocery store.
Jack wakes up one morning, craving pancakes. He asks his mother for one large pancake, for breakfast. She needs some help so Jack sets out to get all the ingredients needed. He first chops up the wheat and makes it into a grain. Then he gets an egg from the chicken and some milk from the cow. His mother sirs it all together and cooks it over a fire, Jack had built. They both enjoy a fantastic breakfast.
I haven't read an Eric Carle book in a long time, and this one was very different from most of the ones I remember, which were almost all about animals. This book is about the process of making and acquiring ingredients for pancakes.Eric Carle was one of my favorite illustrators as a child and it was comforting to see his illustrations again. The book also made me really want to go home and bake something.
The barnyard rooster crows and Jack woke up wanting a big pancake for breakfast. But first, Jack's mom needs flour from the mill, an egg from the black hen, milk from the spotted cow, butter churned from fresh cream, and firewood for the stove. Along with Eric Carle's amazing illustrations, this book helps teach describing words to young readers.
I read this as one of the picture books. I did not expect it to be as informational as it was. The little boy had to do a lot of hard work to get the ingredients for his pancakes. I thought that it is good for the children to know how much goes into food that they take for granted. But it is older than 3rd grade because there are big words.
This book is the story of a boy named Jack who wants pancakes, but to get them has to help his mother. Jack collected everything needed by making flour, gathering eggs, and making butter. he then mixed them together and cooked them. Finally he got to eat them. This story is cute and creates an example of a child helping the mother, which can encourage young readers to also help their parents.
I loved the illustrations. This is a story of how a kid named Jack wants pancakes, so he goes out to gather ingredients to make one. He gets help from different people, and puts in a lot of effort to make pancakes with his mom.This book would be great for kids to read. It shows involvement, community building, and positive work ethic. Plus, I think they'd love the pictures.
This is a cute story about a little boy and his mom making pancakes! This would be a perfect example of showing kids how to follow a recipe and or different directions. It's a very sweet story about spending time with your mom. Very valuable time!
This book makes you think beyond eating the pancake and what actually goes into making a pancake. My son learned how flour for the pancakes was made, all in age appropriate wording. The pictures are engaging and overall it's a book we would read again.
I'm torn between thinking "this is a good one to read with the nephew! it shows how much work pancakes are!" and "this is a terrible one to read with the nephew, he's gonna end up insisting on pancakes!" So.
Written in 'round' where the story ends where it started. The little boy wakes up by the rooster; hungry for pancakes. His mother tells him he has to do 'this and this and then this' etc. So he goes and does this, then this, then this, etc. Cute little story.
My daughter found this one at a summer book sale. I wasn't familiar with it despite being a big fan of Eric Carle. We love pancakes in our house, so an entire story devoted to the full process of how to make them was a big hit!
