https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4985.Welcome_to_the_Monkey_House
Welcome to the Monkey House by Kurt Vonnegut is a collection of short stories from the 50s and 60s and demonstrates Vonnegut’s tremendous range as a writer.
I have read one critic who did not like Vonnegut, saying that all of his novels are essentially the same, with his voice and tone narrating each new set of facts.
Stories like “D.P.”, “Adam”, and “Next Door”, though, originally published in Ladies Home Journal and Cosmopolitan, reveal an unguarded sentimentality and humanity that is not as evident in much of Vonnegut’s later works.
He has learned over the years that consistency is indeed the sign of a trivial mind which would like to impose order on a universe that is inherently chaotic.
Female power arises from the inherent male incompetence in things like communication and relationship-building.
They in turn accept the deal as the best they are likely to get and desist from all attempts to improve him.A curmudgeon is not without charm in certain situations, primarily those in which he is forced to respond to the opinions - usually political, but sometimes anthropological - of others, particularly blowhards and dilettantes.
The world is overpopulated, and they have Ethical Suicide Parlors, where public minded citizens are encouraged to go in and get a lethal injection from the attractive hostesses.
There's a big thermometer outside, showing how many people there currently are in the world.So the guy comes in, and he's chatting with the hostess.
He wants to know how much the mercury will go down if he decides to do it.
A foot?No, she says.An inch?Not quite, she says.Suddenly, he changes his tone.
Every inch, he says, represents seventeen million people.
That's not the right way to look at it, she says.
This is a master class in the art of short story writing. Every short story is finely crafted. Many have humor, many have heartbreak, many have subtle romance. Almost all have commentary on society, especially American society, that is as relevant today as it was in the 1950s. What are these stories missing? You reader. It's missing you to unlock their meaning and beauty.
Welcome to the Monkey House is the best collection of stories I've read.Rating it accurately is as difficult as ever.
Should it be based off of the best stories?
I don't know.What I do know is: Harrison Bergeron, Welcome to the Monkey House, Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow, EPICAC, Where I Live, and The Euphio Question are some of the best shorts ever written.Much like Vonnegut's other novels, they're strangely scientific with quirky characters, great dialogue, and plenty of comedic moments.The rest of the stories weren't so great to write about.
Some of them are pretty out there, though, if that's your thing...
Magic.Welcome to the Monkey House - Likewise aged, not that there aren't people who would be delighted to see the sex drive killed for everyone else, but those people tend not to be in favor of birth control or assisted suicide.Long Walk to Forever - This is the story that made me want to reread the collection particularly.
Definitely one of the best of the collection"Tom Edison's Shaggy Dog" (Collier's Magazine, 14 March 1953) - 4/5 A funny story about a really annoying "me monster" (Brian Regen) who corners a man in the park."New Dictionary" (The New York Times, October 1966) - 3/5 Who hasn't looked up dirty words in the dictionary?
Say bye bye to your freedom."The Lie" (The Saturday Evening Post 24 February 1962) - 3.5/5 About a father's excitement for his son to enter boarding school."Unready to Wear" (Galaxy Science Fiction, April 1953) - 4/5 - SciFi - Bodies are really just a pain in the neck aren't they?"The Kid Nobody Could Handle" (The Saturday Evening Post, 24 September 1955) - 2/5 A boy who's been neglected all his life acts out.
I would heartily recommend Welcome to the Monkey House for anyone new to Vonnegut's body of work, as it covers basically the first two decades of his career (and IMHO, the best years)It contains an honest-to-goodness love story - "Long Walk to Forever" that always makes me sniffle a little.
A-one, a-two a-three."Both comforting and chilling - this collection of stories, while a bit dated at times ("The Hyannis Port Story" and "Epicac", I'm looking at you) is still in my top 50 of favorite books and will continue to be a re-read for years to come.
This man was a genius!!!!
I would have loved to be talking about this book in a College Class.
I'm really happy I won this book.
I enjoyed reading other reviews --early this morning 3am ...(wonderful).
Here is a little something I'll add which I have not read in other reviews.
The copy of the book (in my hands) ---is "The Special Edition" --"Building The Monkey House" by Gregory D.
It was a treat 'added' to this book.
---This I the type of man he was: (he had a very unglamorous way about him).
Carpenters build houses.
I spent over three months with this book, never reading more than one story per day.
I rarely have difficulty stepping into his POV.Welcome to the Monkey House is a bit of a hodgepodge collection, jumping from sci-fi to articles suited for Ladies Home Journal.
Some of the stories, naturally, are not as good as others--but this is a collection, not a coherent narrative.
I enjoy how Vonnegut takes simple genre fiction and still catches my attention with his subtle humor.
I would suggest taking your time with this one and reading it across several months.
Vonnegut may not be for everyone, but I look forward to reading more novels in the coming years.

The standout story here is "Harrison Bergeron" (1961), which is a classic, 5-star story.
If you've somehow missed reading it, or it's been awhile, youre in for a treat.Otherwise, it's a mixed bag of (mostly) 1950s stories.
3 stars."Tom Edison's Shaggy Dog" (1953): an amusing, well, shaggy-dog story.
3 stars."Report on the Barnhouse Effect "(1950).
Barnhouse makes an unusual scientific discovery, enforces world peace.
3 stars."Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow" (1954): a day in a very overcrowded future, after the invention of anti-gerasone.
Eh, 2.5 stars.The rest of them that I read, around half of the collection, are 2-star at best, and some below.
I could write a long review and talk about every short story in this collection, but I'm not going to do that.
There are just too many good stories in this collection.
My personal favorite was probably "Harrison Bergeron" but I would have to think about that.
It's not necessary that I have a "favorite" per se, but my mind just works that way.If you're a Vonnegut fan, you've probably read this.
If you've never read Vonnegut, give it a shot.
It's a great way to start your journey into his mind.
He can be hilarious and moving in the same story.
Vonnegut does it again.
This took me way longer than intended, probably due to the hectic nature of my first week back in uae.
I was never a big fan of a book of collection of short stories.
Usually there would be a lot of hit and miss.
With Welcome To The Monkey House however, literally every short story was memorable.
I can't stress enough how each individual short story was able to stand on its own, and also made me think of each one after I let the book down.
If you are a fan of Vonnegut, you shouldn't miss out on this book....
This was a nice collection of short stories dwelling on a lot of different themes added with Vonnegut's personal view which is evident in them. Although most of the stories were quite good, I found myself enjoying those who were practically SF the most, which is were at least by my opinion Vonnegut is in his best.
Written in a time of Cold War fears, the non-sci-fi pieces are mostly about everyday people trying to find value and purpose in small things, in traditions, in comradeship, in love, while larger corporate, technological and political imperatives pull at their souls.The preface--a gracious and funny homage to his family and only a slight introduction to the works--was written circa 1968 when this collection appeared and gives us the familiar Vonnegut irreverence.
In it, Vonnegut seems slightly embarrassed and ashamed about some of the early pieces therein, but he needn't have been.
25 Stories. Average rating: 3.32Interesting stories. Mostly General fiction, while some are SF. Good language and writing style. Most of the stories were however either just good [3-stars (13 stories)] or okay [2-stars (4 stories)]. Seven stories though, very much stood out for me. 5-stars  Who Am I This Time : When a characterless actor plays a character with extreme intensity in the theater, he finds a woman falling in love with these characters. Thinking what its advantages are, by the end of
Average rating: 3.32Interesting stories.
I loved this a lot, given my personal views about dogs and cats.
However my view of domesticated dogs is possessing complete loyalty, but its side-effect being usually submissive to its Master and as a result lacking evolutionary growth and eventually being called by me as 'stupid' if seen in a wider picture.
Because of this view, this story beats me, and I loved it.
This was such an awesome and interesting contemplative story.
: A fictional report about the discovery of the so-called Barnhouse Effect, which is something equivalent to Telekinesis, but much stronger and evolving.

I think Vonnegut's best talent as a writer is his knack for stripping away the gap between facade and reality. He loves to sketch out characters that are (or simply seem) amazingly rich or powerful or charismatic. Then he breaks their circumstances down such that they're stuck with only their base humanity, and they have to confront themselves as they really are. How degrading to find out how much you're just like everyone else!
I heard once from an old English teacher that the hardest pieces to write are short stories and short films.
There's no room to waste words and phrases; to do so would turn your short story into a novella.
And I feel Vonnegut was great at it too.Welcome to the Monkey House has been a favorite book of mine for a long time.
And it's a great short story; a better defense of individualism than any drivel Ayn Rand ever spewed out."Who Am I This Time?," "Thomas Edison's Shaggy Dog," "Welcome to the Monkey House," and "All the King's Horses" are fantastic stories as well.
In the 70s I taught this at community colleges, and it was wildly popular--the three scifi pieces on future overpopulation, or taking the joy out of sex ("ethical birth control") astute.
Maybe Vonnegut's own prose is deceptively simple-seeming.
Vonnegut's war critiques are acid and on the money; I then thought, and may still, his Slaughterhouse-Five the only "war" novel actually about war, except maybe All Quiet.
The soldier (and history teacher) executed for stealing in Dresden--beautiful, especially when I taught Henry the Fifth in the same semester, with Bardolph coming to a similar end for stealing a French religious symbol, a "pax."
Put it down for some time after the eponymous "Welcome to the Monkey House." I only speak for myself, but I'm tired of reading about rape, either as a plot device or metaphor.
Especially since I read this just after "Sirens of Titan," in which Vonnegut also writes in a detached manner of a character's assault.
I realize that Vonnegut is using this device to discuss other ideas, but that's not enough for me to enjoy this story.
It was enough to put me off Vonnegut for a while.
The later stories are thoughtful and interesting.
Romanlarıyla tanınan Vonnegut'un bütün öykülerini içeren bu kitap, son yıllarda okuduğum en iyi kitaplardan biri. Vonnegut külliyatında benim için Mezbaha No. 5 ve Şampiyonların Kahvaltısı'ndan sonra üçüncü sırada yer alacak.
An example from "Where I live"--"So he went down the narrow yacht club road, nearly broke his neck as he hit a series of terrific bumps put in the road to discourage speeders, to kill them, if possible." I remember this quote and giggle every time I drive out of my neighborhood, over what used to be annoying speed bumps designed for "safety" but clearly mal-intentioned to keep "others" out.
The gadget is, I think, what a lot of people vaguely foresaw as the crowning achievement of civilization: an electronic something-or-other, cheap, easily mass-produced, that can, at the flick of a switch, provide tranquility." Hmmm, sound familiar?
'Love yourself,' said Hellmholtz, 'and make your instrument sing about it."I am very very glad I reread these stories.
While some of the stories aren't necessarily "classic Vonnegut" and a couple of them aren't particularly memorable, this collection is still worth reading in its entirety.
My absolute 10/10 favorite stories in this collection were: Harrison Bergeron-Vonnegut at his finest and cleverest!Welcome to the Monkey House- A crazy, hilarious, and weird tale about overpopulation.Long Walk to Forever-This is not your typical Vonnegut story, there's no black humor and sci-fi twist, it's just a sweet, emotional romance story, and it shows that Vonnegut really has a heart!The Euphio Question-Fascinating and engaging piece of science fiction writing, one of the most interesting short stories I've ever read.Deer in the Works-This is a REALLY strange one!Unready to Wear-Interesting and engaging science fiction tale.The Manned Missiles-This is likely the saddest, most tragic story in the collection.
PS: - povestirea cea mai impresionanta (greu cuvantul pentru niste povestiri prin excelenta impresionante si surprinzatoare) e pentru mine, de departe, Toti caii regelui, despre cum e sa ai in maini viata celorlalti si sentimentul de-a fi la moftul cuiva, gandire limpede in tensiune, thriller in toata puterea cuvantului, ca la PROTV.- mi-a placut in mod deosebit Colectia de primavara-iarna, despre o lume utopica(?) in care oamenii pot invata sa-si paraseasca corpurile, pricina tuturor nazurilor si neintelegerilor, pot fi amfibii, cu optiunea de a imbraca unul cand nevoia o cere sa faci ceva, in sensu efectiv al cuvantului.
A varied and uneven collection of Vonnegut's short stories. Some read like Yankee Magazine or Saturday Even Post stories: boy home from WW II gets girl stories, or "hometown" stories of Barnstable, Massachusetts. Others, the better ones, play to Vonnegut's strengths, like the title work. These are science fiction with Big Themes like thought control, enforced birth control, a cemented-over world, weapons of mass destruction, and variations on Big Brother.
Some stories are better than others but overall a good solid 5 star read. Review to come.
You'd THINK that, what with Vonnegut having written one of my all-time favorite classic sci-fi novels "Sirens of Titan", not to mention "Slaughterhouse Five", you'd think I'd have remembered that he wrote "Harrison Bergeron," one of the great classic sci-fi short stories (it was even in a school textbook of mine) and the second story in this collection.
ANOTHER of the all-time great science fiction classics, ANOTHER story that was in one of my high-school textbooks, and ANOTHER of my favorites, "Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow." I LOVE this story, and it wasn't until I found it in this collection that I realized it was a Vonnegut.
I'll try to keep this review short too.I wanted to give this three stars but I really couldn't bring myself to do that with stories like Harrison Bergeron, Report on the Barnhouse Effect and The Euphio Question collected here.
Those were good too, it's always interesting seeing a Sci-Fi writer write about love because its an interesting take that gets you hooked, not the characters but the setting.
The stories aren't all sci-fi though, some of them have the approach or the setting but Vonnegut is also good at writing about plain old people in a plain old world and those are beautifully written as well.
