https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16257.Further_Tales_of_the_City
Armistead Maupin makes doppelgangers of his beloved characters, plays them out beautifully like a Chess Magician, and Michael and Co. move graciously to the background-- until you need them to be in the narrative, and then they pretty much save the day!
Because the clashes with actual 80's Americana (historical events mostly) are in such garish, odd taste (like talking about a topic way too early...AIDS, plane crashes, whathaveyou), it takes a while for the palate to become entranced with this much kitsch!
Maupin messes with previous dimensions of scope, ambition & historical precision.
When Maupin comes up with a totally unbelievable plot line involving a resurrected Jim Jones, his kidnapping of two four-year-old children from an Alaskan cruise and then perhaps through Little Diomedes (a US island) to Big Diomedes (a Russian island) and then on to Nome which is "over eleven hundred miles from here [Diomedes]" Mary Ann says, right off the top of her head, the last half of this volume turns into a ridiculously thriller.
I'll read the rest of this series but I hope Maupin sticks to what he does best: love, sex, and lovesexdrugsdisco in San Francisco of the 1980s.
It’s not like she’s going to be confused with another character if you just say FRANNIE.
If you’re going to take up with a man living in an abandoned shack in the park, don't you have to at least be prepared for the possibility that he might be a famous cult leader who faked his own death and is trying to exact revenge on one of his former followers?
Fantastic.Also awesome: Mrs. Madrigal locking an anchorwoman in her basement and then trying to get her stoned.
This is the last of the 'lighthearted' Tales of the City books, as the fourth will usher in the beginning of the AIDS crisis and the hardening of Mary Ann Singleton. Sometimes when re-reading this book I want to stop and pretend it ended there, so I can hold onto more cherished memories of the characters we have grown to love so much. The wacky plots may continue, but there's a darkness from hereon out that tends to overshadow it all.
Frances McDormand is the perfect narrator for Tales of the City which never lets too many pages go without the waft of a lit joint. Further Tales continues to delight. These books are so much fun to listen to on audiobook whether you hear the originals from author Armistead Maupin or the updated versions with hip celebrity readings. Love, love, love this series. My absolute favorite.
There's a certain edge to camp that seems to be hard to get on screen but is still quite charming in text.That said, I don't think this book is quite as strong as the first two, and the simple reason for that is that the world changed.
I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the books, especially since their plotlines are still a mystery to me.Come to think of it, if the characters from the first book could have rated the world they were to inherit in the 80's, they probably wouldn't have given it all 5 stars either....
As I continue my 2013 re-read of the Tales of the City series, I am guessing I will have to say less and less about it.
Obviously I enjoy it very much, and while I recall the series "tail"-ing off at some point -- and thought it may have started here with the 3rd installment -- Further Tales of the City -- such was not the case.
Very easy breeze-y reading as I read this one at the fastest clip yet, ~70-pages a day (tho my fellow Tales fans realize that is not that hard to do!).
Maupin's prose is sparse yet surgical, his dialogue is lively and enjoyable, and he's able to create the type of characters that actually make me give a shit what happens to them; something that perhaps dazzles me more than it should as I spend so much of my time reading books where characters and plot are more-or-less secondary to theme.
What's more, the book feels so far removed from Barbary Lane and one of the main characters is the new and incredibly difficult to care about Prue, when it could have just as easily been a pre-existing character we already have a relationship with as an audience like Frannie.
Most of it was deftly handled, but the main plot was slightly odd and dated, with the Jonestown massacre as a backdrop for a suspense narrative.
I understand the impulse to explore a story that loomed large in San Fransisco at that time, but I'm still not quite sure if Maupin pulled it off.Our heroes have entered the eighties, and while the references to culture and fashion make me smile, I want to wave my hands at them and shout, No!
This starts off as a bit of a frustrating installment.
A few years have passed from More Tales and there's some re-arranging of the main characters' lives as they previously ended from being happy couples.
This is all about girl-power with Mary Ann teaming up with DeDe Day (and to a lesser extent, ditzy social columnist Prue Gireaux) as they investigate the mysterious happenings of a charismatic cult leader who might have survived the real-life Jonestown massacre in 1978.
It feels like the weakest installment yet as the central mystery is the most far-fetched so far and feels much less like an ensemble of intertwined lives as it used to be.
AudibleI am even ready to sacrifice my Friday glass of wine for more Tales of the City ( IF  I have to make a choice). How good I have both. Still 6 installments to go. And my new wine rack. And BTW, Barbara Rosenblat is amazing. I've never enjoyed female narrators, but she is so damn perfect, I don't want another narrator for this series. Addiction gets a completely different meaning.
LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVED IT!!!! Everything I wanted and more. The book builds up to the best suspense I've read so far. I could not put it down once I reached the middle of the book. The characters are so lovable, well I mean, I love them since book 1. I don't think you should read this one without reading the first two, good thing is that they are short so it'll be a quick read. Aw, just awesome.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Dramatisation of Armistead Maupin's classic sequence of comic novels about the denizens of a San Francisco apartment house in the late 70s and early 80s.
I keep rereading and rereading all the Tales of the City books, and I still give them full 5 stars everytime 'round!
I thought this was better than the first two, had more intrigue and surprises!
Perfect beach/summer read- like reading a soap opera, and following along to see what happens.I love how the characters are all intertwined and you never know how they are going to pop up again throughout the series of 3 books.
I was honestly really disappointed in the beginning of the book, because Maupin unexpectedly leaps ahead three years in all of our characters' lives.
There is also much more violence attached to the crimes that happen in this book than in the previous ones, as if Maupin is starting to get antsy with sugarcoating gay life in San Francisco as a wonderland of society parties and underwear-dancing contests.
Both seem way too abrupt, probably just because Maupin's deliberately cut corners by skipping several years, in which the reader is just told to trust that these changes happened.
Campiness aside, the characters have grown on me so much that I have fallen completely in love with this series.
My main complaint is that the central plot is plain silly, constructed from an unbelievable premise, abrupt twists and turns, unlikely settings, and implausible resolutions.Second, I don't like the character of Michael Tolliver.
This is the book where we're supposed to fall in love with Michael, to embrace him as the symbolic totem for gay men in America, to salute his brave struggle for love and understanding.
Now that said, I know that Babycakes is the next book in the series, and I remember it as the best and most moving of the six, so maybe my opinion of Michael will evolve.
Now stupidly I got this out of the library and didn't look at the cover properly so only when I got it home did I realise this is number 3 in the series - der!It didn't really matter as it was a whole new story for the characters not a continuation.
Or it's just because this world is so far removed from my own that I found it difficult to relate to.It is set in the entertainment/high society scene in San Francisco and involves several main characters (a journalist or two, a gardener, a matriarch, a mother,a priest, a kidnapper or two to name but a few!) whose stories overlap and come together.It was an entertaining read but without any depth or meaning.
This book is not that.
This book is fucking hilarious.
Witty, smooth, an absolute portrait of SF living in the very early eighties/late seventies, but even much more than that.
This one was way out there with the sudden intense mystery stuck in the middle of the book that unravels into what is, hilariously, a gay threes company sketch.
He's got a rapier line and I love it- it will absolutely suck you in, provided you want to be in early eighties/late seventies California.
If you don't, this isn't the book for you.
I don't think I've ever read a series more out of order!
Considering the time skips between each book, it almost feels kind of natural to jump around, like being told a long story out of order.As with the other books in this series, the character development and dialogue are why I read these books.
The plots rely on coincidence and luck (both good and bad) a little too much for them to feel real.
But when characters have a heart to heart conversation about, say, what is behind their fear of commitment, or how it feels to be in a relationship with someone whose newfound ambition leaves you feeling left out...
The first three books in the Tales of the City are the best. They are all an unbeatable combination of plot, setting and character. And of the first three books, my personal favorite is #3, Further Tales of the City. It's the most inventive and memorable and the most page-turn-able--Maupin at his finest!
Further light and enjoyable reading from Armistead Maupin. He has sucked me in and I just continue to follow the path through his books. Love the Jim Jones/Guyana subplot in this book. My guilty pleasure continues!
Füller:Bislang der Höhepunkt der Reihe, enthält alle typischen Elemente, die man lieben oder hassen kann, daneben aber mit der Rückkehr von Jim Jones einen Roten Faden, der den Aufbau eines grotesken Thrillerszenarios ermöglicht, dessen Auflösung sich aber den traditionellen Mechanismen entzieht.
What a joy to again to Barbary Lane and it's colourful collection of characters. We have moved on to the 80s in this novel however both San Francisco and its inhabitants are as debauched and hilarious as ever. The saga, drama, comedy and joy continue in this third novel of the Tales series.
My favorite so far. I couldn't go to bed until I finished it. Although I did miss Mona, the extreme drama kept me on the edge of my seat. It even exacerbated the creep-factor of a certain historical event that I've always been intrigued with. A lot to take in, but definitely my favorite.
Being familiar with the madness (I'd read the wikipedia article about Jonestown) made this more fun. I also really like Michael now that he is more secure and rounded (and not called "Mouse" much anymore).
Brilliant pure brilliance
Well fuck I got the third book thinking it was the first ofcccc
