https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869969-the-king-s-general
Set during the English Civil War of the 1640's, du Maurier retells a lesser known bit of Cornish history as an elderly Honor Harris reflects back on her life and love.
While Honor refuses to marry Richard, her feelings for him are as strong as before and they begin a most unusual relationship as the tides of war ebb and flow around them.Honor takes up residence at Menabilly, the family home of Honor's brother-in-law Jonathan Rashleigh and things soon begin to go bump in the night in typical du Maurier fashion - mysterious comings and goings, a secret door, a mystery floorboard in the summerhouse and.....
This book started so compulsive and enticing and delicious. But somewhere it bogged down into a relatively plodding glimpse of the English Civil War. The sexy thrill of the early chapters was never recaptured, and the promise of drama and derring-do never really fulfilled. du Maurier is great at creating a world, but this time she didn't quite seem to have the dramatic plot twist to go with her build up.
DuMaurier's tale set in Cornwall during the English Civil War had everything I love about sweeping historical fiction: fascinating characters, a historically detailed storyline, characters that aren't perfect (in fact are often unlikable), and a love story that wasn't conventional in the least.
In fact, it was a true and eerie sidenote to this house's history (view spoiler)[skeletal remains of a man in Cavalier dress were found in the walls of the house in the early 1800's (hide spoiler)] that formed a chilling ending to this tale of love and war, and makes this one the best and most Romantic (with a capital R) of duMaurier's books that I have read.
The plot of the book centres upon this series of battles and how Honor and her beloved Richard Grenville, the King's General in the West, do their best to look after their homes and families and fellow countrymen, whilst taking a courageous stand against the rebels under the most trying of circumstances.
He is taken with her innocence and the way she looks at life, fair and strong willed in all her actions, Honor takes the best out of Richard.When their life together is about to really start, Honor suffers an accident while horse riding and she is left crippled for the rest of her life, this misfortune making an even much stronger woman of her as she casts Richard away for his own sake, sacrificing her own happiness and getting prepared for a life of solitude, a punishment she is ready to bear, with pride and elegance.What she isn't prepared for is to meet Richard, ten years after the accident, when he has become a key figure in the Civil War fighting for his King, and find her passion for him still alive.
Only when we reach the section where (view spoiler)[ the house of Menabily is sacked by the Parliamentary troops (hide spoiler)] does the story come alive.The focus is mainly on the lingering love affair between Honor and Richard Grenville, a brilliant soldier but poor anything else, especially diplomat, and how his frustration with the incompetence of the other Royalist leaders drives him to alienate more and more of those who, ultimately, he needs in order to accomplish anything.
But too much of the book flags in pace and despite the various grumbles about the vicissitudes of life under Parliament and the Roundhead troops, there is not even a mention of the religious and political causes of the war; instead, to Honor, those people were all money grasping etc and that was their motivation.
This is the third novel I've read written by Daphne du Maurier, she is an amazingly talented writer.
I love historical fiction and I love Daphne Du Maurier's writing.The King's General is a complex and compelling story.
Du Maurier weaves together a bitter-sweet love story and a tale of brutal civil war then adds a dash of suspense.
We had, each one of us, because of the civil war, streaked back two centuries in time and were become like those half savages of the fourteen hundreds who, during the War of the Roses, slit one another's throats without compunction.'By page forty you can tell this is a story to be savored and that you will be sorry when it is over.
And the spirit can often turn to devil in the darkness.'Du Maurier is an exceptional storyteller, I’ll give her that.
This is a fascinating glimpse into one of the darker and lesser known facets of history: the people’s experience of the English Civil War. The King’s General is charged throughout with a clear love of the Cornish landscape and its history; in my opinion, it is primarily a heartfelt recognition of the suffering of its people rather than a romance.
The redeeming quality of the novel for me was the characters.
Du Maurier is quite possibly the best at characterisation.
Honor Harris is genuinely one of the best heroines I’ve come across; she’s spirited, witty, brave and perseveres with her life despite a devastating injury.

I know only the bare basics of the Civil War that lead to the downfall of Charles I, and was not aware that the conflict in Cornwall was so important to the outcome.du Maurier again has strong women characters that one finds refreshing in a mid 20th Century novel, without compromising on the male ones.
The novel carried me through the long lonely journey of Outback Australia.For learning a little bit more about the Civil War conflict and the events played out in Cornwall, and a jolly good story, go get yourself a copy.
I read this long ago, when I was a teenager, so do not remember many details of the plot, except that it involved a very unusual love story between a general in the army of King Charles I (English Civil war) and a woman who was a paraplegic.
The general, Richard Grenville, was engaged to the woman many years ago, but then she had a terrible accident that paralyzed her from the waist down and refused to see him again (too depressed, didn't want his pity, etc.) When the civil war begins, he ends up at her family estate and their romance resumes.
Having read one Daphne du Maurier years ago - The Scapegoat - I have now added three more:Frenchman's Creek, The House on the Strand, and this one.She is quite brilliant. her characters are strong, vivid and the writing so muscular - the depiction of a house ravaged by Civil War could have come from Damascus today.Such a great, multi-layered protagonist too. And an unlikable yet likeable lover in Grenville.Strangely, I have never read the most famous one: Rebecca. Should I?
I love du Maurier’s writing let me start with that, she is one of my favorite authors however this book fell a little flat for me, it didn’t have the suspense that Rebecca or Jamaica Inn had.
If you like a little more romance than I do maybe you will enjoy this book more than I did so don’t let me scare you off.
This wasn’t a bad book it was just not as suspenseful as I had wanted it to be.3 stars
I had expected the gothic feel to the book but this was much more of a historical title than I had anticipated with very detailed accounts of the English Civil War as it affected those in Cornwall.The main protagonists were unusual and the "hero" incredibly flawed.
The relationship between DuMaurier's heroine, Honor, and the ruthless rogue,Richard Grenvile, can only be described as a truly "grand passion." I loved how Honor clearly saw even Richard's ugliest side and loved him foibles and all.
Although the book dragged a bit during parts of the military campaign, the intrigues and interplay between the various characters made this a page turner.Highly recommended for those interested in the English Civil War
Written about the English civil war and published at the end of the Second World War, this book says a lot about the harrowing experience of living through a war and the powerlessness of women, children, and other bystanders, but without ever hitting you over the head with it.
It's also really refreshing to read about a romantic heroine who genuinely is> feisty and spirited, without the writer ever having to tell you that she's feisty and spirited.I also thought it was interesting how little attention du Maurier pays to costume, historically accurate dialogue, or any of the other details that seem to be a prerequisite for writing historical fiction nowadays.
The King's General, Daphne du Maurier عنوان: عشق ژنرال؛ دافنه دو موریه؛ مترجم: افسر بهاروند؛ تهران، ؟، ؟، در 400 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: ارغوان، 1383؛
A true story of Richard Grenville and Honor Harris.There is all what should have a good historical fiction and a brilliant love story.
The characters (especially Richard and Honor) are complex and great described.
Hero and heroine are independent but whatever is going on in their life, wherever they are, they simply love each other.
When you add to that political fights, wars, civil wars, your life become almost unbearable.
The King's General is an enjoyable read set during the English Civil Wars - though I must admit that I found this story less exciting than Frenchman's Creek, another du Maurier set during the seventeenth century. I wasn't overly keen on Richard as the hero, for one thing, and disliked how he treated some of the other characters, especially Dick.

4.5 stars.Daphne du Maurier as always does not disappoint me!
This is a historical fiction/gothic suspense book, written as only Daphne can write.
This is my third du Maurier, after Rebecca and My cousin Rachel and I'll be definitely reading more from her.
I'm not giving the book 5 stars only because somewhere in the between I found there were few repetitions, which at a certain point became boring.
Actually, after closing the book I felt as though I was leaving behind a good friend.
Well, after all that's what a good book is about!
Lovely book. If you go by the Goodreads description, you'll think this is your basic gothic romance. It is, at it's core, the story of the romance between Richard Grenvile and Honor Harris, but it is much more than that. It's a well-researched and respectful historical novel that deals with the effects of war on a society and on individuals, the complicated nature of marital and family relationships, jealousies, parental expectations, and gender expectations. It's a complicated work of historical fiction that happens to be centered around a tragic romance.
One of Daphne du Maurier's lesser known novels but one that is certainly deserving of more attention. Set during the English Civil War, it's got romance, intrigue, suspense, beautiful descriptions of the Cornish scenery and some great characters, including a very unique and memorable heroine. I did get a little bogged down at times, particularly with some of the Civil War related stuff, which is why I rated it 4 stars but on the whole, I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it to others.
A very touching love story under the British civil war. Dame Du Maurier knows to impress us with every book she wrote. My favorite? very hard to decide since I still have some other books to read: My Cousin Rachel, The Scapegoat, The Flight of Falcon....
This is the first du Maurier I read, so it will always hold a special place for me. If you've not read it I urge you to, it's atmospheric to the point that I obsessed about it when I wasn't reading it. Captivated me from page 1.
I have read at least a handful of Daphne's books & plan on reading all at some point. She was has you wondering where she is going with the story & I was quite surprised as usuasl. A great historical read.
Through her truthful recount of the man who stole her heart, Richard Grenville, and her life in a wheelchair, she tells a tale of love, mystery, war, and misery.Du Maurier never fails to create an atmospheric experience for the reader.
I was transported to Cornwall in the 1600's, and through the eyes of Honor, I had a raw, real recount of the English Civil War.Once again, the characters are brilliantly constructed.
I read the more famous du Maurier novels in my youth, loved them and would like to re-read them now.
I saw this book in the National Civil War Museum shop in Newark-on-Trent, England, last year.
I was finally learning something about this period of English history.
"The King's General" is focused on the Civil War years (mid-1600s) in Cornwall, rather than the Midlands, and I found it very informative and interesting.
Nevertheless, it was certainly an interesting way to tell the story of the war years, and I was eager to keep reading.
(This Penguin Books edition had far too many typos.
With the war coming closer to her house, Honour moves in with her sister, Mary Rashleigh, and Mary's husband, John, at Menabilly, the family estate.
It turns out that Honour was right and the secret tunnel in the Summer house does lead to the room next to hers.
Richard returns soon after this with his son, Dick, to come live with Honour.
With help, Richard escapes from prison and travels back to Menabilly where he asks Honour to hide him and his son.
Richard, Dick and Honour must deal with the remainder of the war, family secrets and family expectations as the book finishes.
Really 3.5Here's what I liked about this book.
The book takes place in Cornwall during the British Civil War of the 1640s.
It so happens I started reading I Wear the Black Hat: Grappling With Villains right after I finished this book.
And, she has a nemesis in Gartred Grenvile, as cunning as her brother Richard is ruthless.
So Honor, enmeshed with the Grenviles, cannot but come off well.
There were lots of characters in this book, most of them peripheral to the story and not flushed out.
Beside that, I enjoyed the book.
The King's General is set in Cornwall during the English Civil War, and tells the story of Honor Harris and her love for Sir Richard Grenvile, the “King’s General in the West.” It is a historical novel and a romance, albeit a very unusual type of romance.
It is a fascinating and engrossing story, rich in historical detail, and du Maurier weaves an intricate plot that involves, among other things, the shifting loyalties and rivalries among the royalists in Cornwall, mysterious sounds in the night, and some quite unexpected events.
After listening again, I give five stars to the novel; a brilliant story!
