https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17131869-saga-vol-2
Dear Mr. Vaughan, I do not know what process you go though to produce comics like these. I do not know what dark alchemy you perform, what infernal pacts you have agreed to, what terrifying drugs you must imbibe. I have no idea what arcane rituals you must perform every day, what odd odd habits of diet and exorcize you must maintain to keep your mind limber and sparking, to write things like this. I just wanted to say, whatever it is you're doing, please keep doing it. Sincerely, pat
This series continues to blow me away! Loving it!
review to come, but man, am i loving this series!okay, time for a real review! it's hard to know where to begin….this series is all told from the POV of a girl, detailing the events and adventures of her baby-years and before, including the romantic forbidden love between her parents. it was not, however, love at first sight. but it's not all lovey-dovey stuff, nor even lovey-punchy-with-a-rifle stuff. there's also … this and how much do i love alana? not only for her dry wit but also for her e
review to come, but man, am i loving this series!okay, time for a real review!
it's hard to know where to begin….this series is all told from the POV of a girl, detailing the events and adventures of her baby-years and before, including the romantic forbidden love between her parents.
well, okay, one book in particular.
been there, my friends…but also deep in my heart is lying cat
no killing lying cat!
lying cat is for SNUGGLING!
not even embarrassed about it.i want my own lying cat.

Oh man, I was never that into comics.
I’m thinking, and thinking, and truth is that I love every one of them.
Alright, so I mayhap want to dispatch of that annoying robot prince, but I’m sure he’ll slaughter himself some day, and I’m pretty patient.
Well, relatively patient.Did I ever mention how much I love the fact that it is the lovebirds’ little Hazel who narrates the story?
This sequel is different from the first book because it doesn’t only go on with the plot and how things were left but also goes back in time to moments that led to the present, and I must say that I was HOOKED.Best comic ever.
Really enjoying the creativity of this series...the characters...the story arc...the art...all of it.
Loving this series so far! It's bizarre as hell, but AMAZING! Reminds me a lot of the old Star Wars movies.

First read April 2014Reread in September 2015Third read in January 2018I FORGOT HOW MUCH I FREAKING LOVE THESE
The art is beautiful, the story is so complex and intriguing and I just love it a lot so far.EVERYONE WAS RIGHT ABOUT THIS SERIES
This comic book is an incredible adventure right from page 1.I seriously could not put this story down. It made me laugh, smile, and even tear up at one point (Barr…). I never knew what to expect from the incredible ensemble of characters and I think that made the plot that more epic.The chemistry between all of the characters is phenomenal.Izabel, Gwendolyn, and of course Alana are so damn badass.And that ending was AMAZING.Why have I waited so long to read this series?On to the next volume!Support creators you love. Buy a Coffee for nat (bookspoils) with http://Ko-fi.com/bookspoils
I put in requests at the library for these books.
Did I take the time to look at how many holds they have on them?
Nope.
So I've ended up with Volumes 2 and 3 first and weeks to go before I'll get Volume 1.
I still read this..because I'm a rebel like that.
Plus my library sends letters out on over due books that scare me.
This is a fun book.
Told from the point of view of the young baby.
Plus the art work is wonderful.
Plus you have this guy..You know I had to go there.
I put in requests at the library for these books.
Did I take the time to look at how many holds they have on them?
Nope.
So I've ended up with Volumes 2 and 3 first and weeks to go before I'll get Volume 1.
I still read this..because I'm a rebel like that.
Plus my library sends letters out on over due books that scare me.
This is a fun book.
Told from the point of view of the young baby.
Plus the art work is wonderful.
Plus you have this guy..You know I had to go there.
If possible, this was even more wickedly delightful than its predecessor.• We're showered with some much-wanted backstory on my favourite duo:• Get introduced to a new set of badass mofos:• Feast our eyes upon more gloriously graphic art:• And of course, get a glimpse of the most adorable little bean that is young Marko:• Bonus content – Harambe makes an appearance (forgive me):
One of the things I love most about this series so far is that despite all the crazy elements, Vaughan makes everything so relatable.
This may be taking place in space during a massive war that involves everything from magic to worlds dedicated solely to prostitution, but whether it’s meeting the in-laws or telling us about how Alana and Marko met, there’s a very human element to all the wackiness.
That’s what makes the whole thing so damn awesome.
These are just genius. Funny, amazing and consistently interesting world, rad af characters. I wish I'd read this earlier today so that I had time to go grab the others from the library before it closed.
Volume 1 left me feeling like this:Yes, I am a cigarette smoking dude with a moustache and over-gelled hair in real life.This volume?
I didn't give this book a 3.5-star rating just because 3.5 is a pretty number.
➽ Me love me Lying Cat:➽ Izabel, coolest ghost babysitter ever:➽ Gorillas and stuff:➽ Mostest awesomest doctor ever:➌ Awesome female characters:➽ Alanna:➽ Gwendolyn:➽ Klara:➊ The Romeo and Juliet vibe:Please kill me somebody.
Too bad these guys aren't the main characters in the story.»» And the moral of this non-review is: I'll probably give volume 3 a try, but if the authors keep doing the more silly romance and family vs.
Brian K Vaughan's epic Saga continues, as does the awesomeness from the first volume!Lovers who each come from opposite sides of two warring worlds, Alana and Marko have become the symbol for a possible union between the planet Landfall and the moon of Wreath.
The previous edition of "Saga" focused more on how the battle between their people was impacting Marco and Alana, but now Vaughan adds even more gravitas to the horrors of war by showing not only how it affects individuals, but also how it can potentially destroy families as well.
The second 6 issues have definitely allayed those fears as they are as outrageous and genuine as the first story arc, losing none of the batshit craziness or heart.Hazel, the newborn daughter of Marko and Alana, continues to narrate the story of her parents from an unknown point in the future.
But, alas, bounty hunters continue to plague them and, worst of all, the sudden appearance of ex-flames (an enraged Gwendolyn, Marko's one time fiancée) and in-laws (Marko's parents seek out their wayward child at the worst possible of times, complicating his escape with Alana).This arc provides background on several significant characters, including how Marko and Alana met, as well as the history of the relationship between The Will and The Stalk, the star-crossed (and bad ass) bounty hunters hot on their trail.
I'm gonna make this short since it's a volume 2 and you can check out most of my thoughts on my volume 1 review.
All in all, I thought this was a great second installment.
It's still got the comedy gold, it's beautiful in a very real sort of way, and I tore through it really needing to know what happens next.
It's left me impatient to get to volume 3, so I really can't complain.
If you enjoyed volume 1, this one isn't quite as great but still, you've gotta know what happens, right?
WEBSITE | TWITTER | FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM
You will see :-DSo Marko's parents get beamed on board and they are not happy to see that he married Alana who is supposed to be an enemy of their race.
Marko goes off through the portal to find her and his mom follows him.
This leaves Alana, Marko's dad Barr and little baby Hazel.
You have to read the first book to know what I'm talking about.
That Robot, I call TV HEAD is still looking for Alana, Marko and the baby too!
I like that the book goes back and tells some back stories of how Alana and Marko met.
Re-read after becoming a die-hard fan fo the series, 5/9/18:I'm going nuts here. I feel so sorry for grandpa. I love Lying cat. I can't believe how good this The Will still looks! And all the introductions of characters who... *sob* *sniffle*... this is almost too much for me right now.Original review:Truly a quiet piece of genius, now that I've read this far. It's pacing is great and its characters are all fantastic. The deep subversion vibe of that romance novel has got the shivers running down my spine. I'm very happy to be reading this stuff. It's inspiring.
They are really great.And Izabel, the ghostly babysitter, is back.The Will goes to a pleasure planet, and in a moment of altruism, insists on buying a child sex slave no matter the costs.Prince Robot IV is back and has gone to Quietus to find a "romance" author he thinks Alana and Markus are off to meet (since he is suspected of actually using his books to write subversive messages of pacifism and anti-war).Oh, and we finally get to meet Markus' ex-fiancé, Gwendolyn.
Tons of WTF moments, violence, sex, anything goes with this series, and I dig it.
this awesomeness of a book is my first 5-stars rating for a graphic novel!
But the only thing you need to know is the fact that there isn't any useless character, as they all bring something fascinating to the story.✭ Let's talk about my favorite moments, shall we?
1) Let's spread the love with the meet-cute2) Feel the urge to kill this Lying cat.3) The reading scenes : yes, I'm a romantic like that.4) Of course, the belly-button.
I have to stop here otherwise I'll tell you the entire story.
I guess you just have to read it to find out.For more of my reviews, please visit:
Present day Marko is still in the tree space ship with Alana and their baby, Hazel, but the new additions are Marko's parents.
Marko's mother has banished Izabel to another planet so he and his mother go after her, while Alana and Hazel stay in the ship with his father, who lets her in on a very important secret.
Then, Gwendolyn and The Will are able to locate Marko and Alana thanks to the young girl they rescued.
In present time, Marko's father sacrifices everything he has to protect the ship and his loved ones.
This series just cracks me up!
5/5 stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ This was just as good as the first one! 💗 Super quick to read! Totally bizarre! Loved it! 💗
I just couldn't resist.This tells of Marko's parents being on the tree rocketship (have I mentioned I want one?) and how that affects everyone.
This time, while there is one bounty hunter less, there is also Marko's former fiancée who (understandably) wants her rings back and is so not cool with how their relationship ended.There aren't as many crazy different places this takes place but we learn more about the rocketship and interpersonal relationships (like how Alana and Marko met or scenes from Marko's childhood and Prince IV's war-time experiences) and it helps to build connections.
It's interesting to see how Marko & Alana relationship develop since they're practically Romeo & Juliet in a Space Opera setting and also the narration done by Hazel added a nice touch and depth to its storytelling.
They're too simple and made me feel really detached from the book.
The book is hilarious and strange (another bizarre & disgusting creature appear here) at the same time, some of the dialogues really made me laugh.
Overall, I'll give volume 2 a solid 4 stars, I'm interested to see where the story goes from here.
Such clever, so art, very character. Don't judge me. What did you want me say? It's Saga, you already know it was good.
Loving this series so far. It's batshit crazy but just totally great. I think if it arrived in my lap in novel form I would be in dire straits but the imagery is amazing and there's something nostalgic about it that takes me back to my comic loving days. Also love that it celebrates difference. Corking.
Another enjoyable read. Some things were visibly improved, but overall I felt that Volume 2 was on about the same level as the first. These comics are fun to read, but I'll probably never understand people praising them to the high heavens.Among the new characters, I really liked Barr and really disliked Gwendolyn. As for the regulars, Lying Cat is turning out to be my favourite. And even though he's awesome, that does say a bit about the others.I'll probably write a full series review when I'm done with them all, or at least most of them.
