https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198331.Valhalla_Rising
This book started out all right, on a three-star level.
There was a lot of action which kept me interested.
Pitt saved the day, and then...
It was just too much, and it grew more unlikely with every time.
Furthermore, the story is packed with gorgeous, frightened women who stare up at Pitt in wide-eyed admiration and enjoy cleaning up after him in his a-ma-zing museum of a home.
The book is soaked in testosteron, with an outburst of ridiculous sentimentality in the last chapter.
I have been rolling my eyes so many times it was hard to read on.
Would that be petty?There's clearly a market for this stupidity, as this was Dirk Pitt TM No. 16 and I see in the workroom that the library has just gotten the latest.I rarely give up on a book, but after a certain number of "miraculous" events, it is clear that Clive Cussler just doesn't care if the book is coherent; he just rolls from action sequence to action sequence (with stunning beauties swooning over the devil-may-care protagonist in their wake).I enjoy puzzling out plots, but if after writing the hero into an almost impossibly tight spot, the author can't be bothered to come up with something plausible to get him out, what's the point?Something more plausible than, say, the author (yes, the author) showing up in a fantastic (literally) yacht to pluck brave Dirk and the rest of the abandoned crew of his submersible out of the water and whisk them hundreds of miles away, to the bad guys' lair, where the rotters have taken the hijacked good guys' ship in order to sink it [pause here ...
My first Cussler book, and it will be my last.
Before anyone sends me a nasty-gram about this review, remember, I'm not taking away your right to enjoy this book, it's just that I didn't.
Dirk Pitt is just a little too much, don't you think?
I mean, your ancient rare plane isn't showing up for your air show?
Call Dirk Pitt!
I won't give it away, but I was glad that the ending of the book presented Pitt with a situation where he was a little bit unsure how to react.
It was way too little and too late.
This is one of the best organized of the clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt series, that reaches across centuries to create a fiction that is incredibly beleiveable.
The book pulls on history, old fiction, old mysteries, science, science ficition and adventure to create an unforgetable novel that leaves you asking how much of this could be true.
Sarebbe dovuta essere l'ultima avventura di Dirk Pitt, che si ricollega a Vortice. E invece c'è un bel colpo di scena finale, anzi doppio direi. ;)
It would have still been a good book without the Viking influence as the Verne aspect adds a touch of bizarre interest to it.For once I am sad to say for any viking fans don't let the longship on the cover fool you into a rip roaring viking adventure - as you won't come across the image until the very end when it doesn't bare much impact or power on the entire story.
Dirk Pitt, man...he's ruggedly handsome, mild-mannered, smart, clever, witty, selfless, and so many other things.
He's dashing and charming all of these other things.
All I really figured out in this novel was how awesome and good at everything Dirk Pitt was.
I listened to this book on audio tape and it was a pretty awesome experience, because the reader (can't remember his name) was hilarious.
The reader had ten different voices for all of the characters.So, in conclusion, this book was more of an entertaining read than a substantial one.
Also: I DON'T THINK YOU'RE ALL THAT GREAT, PITT.
This was my second Clive Cussler book to read.
Cussler is a master of the historical novel.
He tied the Vikings and Captain Nemo to a modern-day power play of a truly evil corporate leader.
This was layered with many twists and turns, and never relaxed its grip on you until THE END.
Cussler is very knowledgeable about the sea and all things marine.
His own personal experience working with NUMA and his maritime trips around the world is very evident in his realism and detail that he crafts his books with.
This is a great read!
This will not be my last Cussler book.
I really don't understand how everyone drools over Cussler so much. Dirk Pitt is an asshole, and the entire thing just seems like one big Cussler Love fest. He's far too into himself for my tastes... I mean... Writing yourself into your own novels? Come on. Try a James Rollins book. Much better action, more research into the technical and historical aspects, and more interesting characters.
Rather enjoyed this one, although Mr Cussler turns up again in a cameo. There are some rather good adventurous happenenings in this book, followed by some rather eye popping clunks and wobbles where science fiction is rather over egged. Fun and funny - probably for the wrong reasons.
Another good book in the Dirk Pitt series. Nice adventure stories. This was the first book I read about this action/adventure character and was very impressed. Recommended
Fun, but silly.
Fire extinguishers and back-up systems failed and the lifeboats proved useless in the firestorm.The NUMA vessel, Deep Encounter, races to the rescue.
Dirk Pitt, the captain and his stalwart crew take on more than their fair share of passengers, saving them from a fiery death.
The Deep Encounter is overloaded and quickly in danger of sinking herself.
The Deep Encounter is hijacked.
Pitt and his friend, Giordano, bravely manage to free the ship and crew before all are destroyed to eliminate the evidence.The chase is on!
Dirk Pitt returns to the United States and offers to help Kelly Egan and her group of disabled children.
Cititorii cărților lui Jules Verne le vor plăcea, cu siguranță, și această operă scrisă de Clive CusslerE prima mea carte citită de acest autor și spre surprinderea mea, mi-a plăcut destul de mult.
Carte astea asta m-a convins să citesc câteva opere de ale lui Jules Verne și anume cele legate de subiectul acestei cărți "Douăzeci de mii de leghe sub mări" și "Insula Misterioară".
E minunat cum un autor de carte relatează, povestește, descrie într-atât de bine subiectul unei cărți, încât la un moment dat nu mai știam unde e ficțiune și oare cât din toate astea e adevăr :)
It was very hard for me to rate this book because the idea for the story itself was nice, the action was fast-paced and the way I like it.
But then there are things like: How many boats and lives can Dirk Pitt save in one novel?
But what struck me most: Why the heck must the writer of this book be in the story itself?
Give me a break!But I would still have given it a four-star rating.
But then the story had to finish and answers to a lot of questions were given in merely 20 pages.
No Dirk Pitt for me any more I think...
Il mio primo romanzo di Cussler, devo dire che mi è piaciuto. Forse un centinaio di pagine di troppo, con ben tre disastri navali sventati dal protagonista e un eccesso di descrizioni, sono l'unica pecca di questo più che buon romanzo. Una via di mezzo tra Indiana Jones e James Bond è la definizione che ho trovato in più parti delle avventure di Dirk Pitt, il protagonista. Ecco, è azzeccata, ma io ho gradito maggiormente la parte alla Indiana Jones, che purtroppo risulta un poco compressa.
My first Clive Cussler book - and perhaps still my favorite. Dirk Pitt is so much better than Kurt Austin. This was a great, fresh style for me at the time that I read it several years ago, and is the reason I'm a Clive Cussler fan today.
Опитах се,но не успях да удължа времетраенето на четенето на тази книга.Дори се чувствам малко тъжен,че вече свърши.За мое лично успокоение поредицата е доста дълга.Доста дълго време мога да ѝ отделя и аз...Обичам книгите,които те карат да се усмихваш с последния ред!
Not my favourite Dirk Pitt novel but it moves from 4 stars to 5 because of the ending. I love those two characters can't wait to read more. The only way these novels could improve in my books is increasing the amount of content with congresswoman Loren smith.
I'm a sucker for Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt adventures.
Loved it. Way better than I expected, rich in history and interwoven story lines!
Typical Pitt novel. Fun adventures. Maybe a little too much at times but a fun easy read.
This immediate successor to 'Atlantis Found' [#15 in the series] is not nearly as loopy but it does manage to weave in Viking settlers to early medieval America and Jules Verne's 'Nautilus' as well as a vintage dogfight over Manhattan into a tale of corporate attempts to overthrow the Constitution.There is a lot in these stories that is formulaic (not least periodic statistics on particular feats of engineering) but, where it is so, Cussler does it well within an exciting flow of events that comes to a neat resolution with characters you will either like or loathe in very black and white terms.But the real reason to enjoy these books is psychological - they are optimistic, decent and likable.
Pure escapism at its best. I thought I had the Cussler formula down pat, but the ending threw me. Well played Sir, well played!
Cussler can really get into the specs of technology sometimes - the dimensions and details of the variety of vehicles and equipment as well as weaponry, in the story.There's also Dirk Pitt being the unwitting, and willing hero.
The first rescue he does in this book, he came across by chance.
And then you have Dirk Pitt and AL Giordino's cheeky attitude.
All in all, it's a good read in that respect.However, this book came with several cliches, and veered into the territory of science fiction.
I'm sorry, but as much fun as this book started out to be, it became way too cheesy.
Cussler delivers again! Pitt’s heroics and adventures allow me to visit swashbuckling tales and travel the world. Enjoy this hero tale for the pure entertainment.
Who in their right mind would name a corporation Cerberus?
So the naming of the evil conglomerate attempting to hoard the worlds oil supply and suppress a new engine that runs on faerie poo after the Janus-challenged guardian pet of hell isn’t a bad idea.
Unfortunately that’s where the ideas stop.
The ideas are recycled (well aren’t they all?) and the action sequences aren’t up to par.
Throw me for a loop one of these days and write a Romance novel, set in the 19th century deep south with a heroine named Scarlett.
Never mind.
It doesn't make much sense why this book references Viking lore.
(Then again, there's not much in this book that does make sense.) There's a scene in the beginning concerning an early Viking settlement in pre-Columbiann America, and then the rest of the book goes on about an evil billionaire (is there any other kind?) wanting to have power over the country.
At the end, Dirk Pitt finds out where the Viking settlement was hiding in a cave.
Otherwise, Vikings and Valhalla have absolutely nothing to do with the plot.
And don't even get me started on Clive Cussler writing himself into his own book.
Absolutely thrilling, a series of cruise ships are sunk at sea but not in any ordinary fashion, the 
The story was decent, but his characters were so nauseatingly cliched that it was an effort to keep reading. Also, there is a lot of info dumping, and much of the early chapters are telling rather than showing. In short, Cussler is just phoning it in. If you like stories with "Harlequin romance"-type cardboard characters (i.e. perfect brawny men and timid, fainting women), then you'll love this. However, if you prefer stories with complex, interesting characters, where scenes develop the plot or characters and aren't loaded down with info dumps, then this piece of tripe isn't for you.
