https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20862569-he
Its Greenwich Village geographical details are based on an even earlier walk Lovecraft made during the summer of 1924.
During these solitary nighttime walks, Lovecraft could escape from the immigrant throngs that crowed the daytime metropolis, an alien horde which—Lovecraft habitually thought—menaced him by day.
(Was this in spite of—or because of—he was married to a Ukrainian immigrant Jew—Sonia Shafirkin Greene—at the time?)In this tale—one of the most blatant literary expressions of Lovecraft’s racism—our narrator encounters an ancient gentleman who becomes his guide through the oldest alleys of the city.
3.5HeAn unnamed optimistic poet arrives in New York.
He loves everything about it since the night promises great things for him.
Daylight, however, brings disappointments.
The wonderful city of night turns into a dead, modern thing during the day.
Soon the disappointed man starts going out only at night, wandering the less known or even forgotten streets and alleys and loving the feeling of old he manages to find there.One night he meets a strange man who promises to show him more.
He promises something wonderful.
Although there is something not quite right with the stranger, the narrator goes with him.
Lovecraft writes beautiful prose.A man guides the first person narrator to labyrinths he seeks. He shows him secrets by power of necromancy and the narrators screams awaken something slithering up the stairway, black and with hundreds of undead eyes, "He."
Another of Lovecraft's weird tales. An unnamed narrator has moved to New York, decides to take a walk one night, meets a strangely dressed fellow, accepts his invitation to go on some late night site seeing, listens to some strange tale, gets damn frightened, then learns that he's just met some dead guy from the 1700s...
A fairly standard offering from HPL including a trip through weird landscapes and buildings, and the expected overwrought language. Mystical arts, a mysterious stranger, visions of a future with weird architecture, and then black goo with lots of eyes. It's enough to drive one mad.
Just because you put together beautiful words, it doesn’t make it a great story ​
Take a look at this, barely the second sentence of the story:My coming to New York had been a mistake; for whereas I had looked for poignant wonder and inspiration in the teeming labyrinths of ancient streets that twist endlessly from forgotten courts and squares and waterfronts to courts and squares and waterfronts equally forgotten, and in the Cyclopean modern towers and pinnacles that rise blackly Babylonian under waning moons, I had found instead only a sense of horror and oppression which threatened to master, paralyse, and annihilate me.Yes, that is just one sentence.Only because the prose is so fun to read I'm giving this two stars instead of only one.
I think I need a break from Lovecraft. I'm not sure I appreciate such a vivid glimpse of what the world must look like through the eyes of a bigot.
First line: I saw him on a sleepless night when I was walking desperately to save my soul and my vision.Our loquacious narrator travels to New York where he encounters a dirty city, dirty natives and even dirtier foreigners, and has visions of unknowable horrors in the city hat leaves him cataleptic in the end. Typical Lovecraftian stuff, but not as good as other shorts.
"Venire a New York è stato uno sbaglio perché, ovunque cercassi bellezza ed ispirazione artistica, (...) avvertivo, invece, un vago orrore ed una sensazione di soffocamento che mi opprimevano, quasi al punto di prostrarmi ed annichilirmi""Mi si fermò il respiro: non tanto per quello che vedevo, quanto per le possibilità intraviste dalla mia immaginazione"Devo dire che questo racconto ha protetto a denti stretti la mia opinione su Lovecraft.
Il vero pericolo si nasconde nei segreti della terra, o nella psiche di chi vuole comprenderla?Se l'invito è quello di non partire, di non lasciarsi coinvolgere, allo stesso tempo noi non potremo mai ignorare la verità sepolta nelle nebbie della Storia: c'è un orrore che supera quello della solitudine.
The prose in this story was phenomenal and dripping with eldritch fascination, but the racial undertones dragged it down quite a bit. He could have pulled off a nice dream cycle story here, but chose to go with this instead. Luckily, this was around the point he began to grow out of his discriminatory attitude and moved on to bigger and better things.
The lack of dialogue threw me off but in this case it created a certain scary atmosphere.
This was a very twisted story.
Герой-поет гадав, що їде у велике місто, обвідчути його унікальний смак, проте його чекало розчарування.
Лише вночі місто знову набуває таємничих рис і нагадає колишнього себе.
На одній із таких прогулянок по заснулому місту герой зустрічає незнайомця.
З одного боку, він лякає, дещо моторошне ховається у його обличчі, яке лише іноді помітно у світлі ліхтарів.
З іншого боку, перед його пропозицією неможливо встояти, бо він пропонує екскурсію по місту, яким його мало хто бачить.(view spoiler)[Тож, вдвох вони вирушають у прогулянку.
Наприкінець вони дістаються дому незнайомця.
Там він розповідає, що у спадок йому дістався секрет, як індіанці можуть бачити світ, який живе в інші часи.
Nothing special here. I kind of liked the setting in New York, as opposed to a smaller New England town. I also like, despite not loving this story, the trend in those old days of writers making their hero realistic in that they can be frightened. The story pretty much ends with the protagonist legging it and then collapsing in horror.
Sometimes Lovecraft can blather on in his writing, but far more often his words can provide a stimulating massage to the mind. This story is the latter. A creative, original nugget of a story that is presented in such a sincere manner, one can easily assume it is partly autobiographical. Aren’t these sometimes the best stories?
I would give this five stars if it weren’t for the blatant racism. It’s really astounding to me that someone so educated could also be such a blithering bigot. Yeah, it was a different time back then and blah blah blah, but I still expect more from people of those days who were educated. Totally disappointing.
Minus the racist trappings, there's a somewhat interesting story buried in here. Immortal show-off, probably leading his next victim home, brings about his own demise (though he blames the victim's screaming... seriously, his other victims didn't scream?).
Insipid dreamer type serves as a witness for the comeuppance of a white necromancer who messed with an Indian holy ground.
This story clearly depicts why following a creepy looking stranger you just met in the middle of the night is a really bad idea.
6/10
This is one of the least interesting short stories by Lovecraft, marred by his strong xenophobia.
It is almost a political manifesto, with a layer of fiction on top, explaining what the author believes are the dangers of mixing with other cultures (at the time mainly Southwestern European and East Asians).The narrator, an aspiring poet, wanders the night streets of New York.
But daylight reveals squalor, architectural excess, and swarms of squat and swarthy foreigners (horrifying to Lovecraft).
Wondering at night he encounters a like minded individual, that show him the beauty of the city that was, and the horrors of the city that will be.
The unnamed narrator of this short tale begins by saying that is was a mistake coming to New York. He was looking for inspiration, but found only cramped alleyways full of immigrants. One night as he's out walking, he meets the "he" of the title, an old man who seems as interesting in times past as the narrator himself. He follows the old man home. What could go wrong?Please read full review here
Lovecraft delves into a more complex tale of dark arts and mysticism.The narrator tells of his interest in the paranormal and exploring the darker side of his surroundings.On a nightly soujorn, his exploration brings him across the path of "He", a mysterious stranger.From there a tale of betrayal and exploitation unfolds into a scene of terror and fear....
Creepy story lol but I kind of like it though can't complain. So much "I was provided this audiobook at no charge by the author, publisher and narrator in exchange for an unbiased review via AudiobookBlast dot com
Puro horror. Un horror indescriptible de origen desconocido y atrayente aunque te pueda aniquilar la mente... <3
Cool story.
This is a story in which you really see the deep links between Lovecraft's extreme racism and the themes in his horror stories. Reading these stories is depressing me. I may have to stop.
Love K. Anderson Yancy and his SonicMovies. "This audiobook was provided by the author, narrator, or publisher at no cost in exchange for an unbiased review courtesy of AudiobookBlast dot com."
