https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104613.Watt
Here,the first button of his greatcoat.What Watt thought about Knott, what Watt thought about Knott’s dog, what Watt didn’t think aboutthe dog.
What Watt didabout the family who cared for thedog at Knott’s house, and did notcare for the dog.
And having now reached the area of Watt’s lower abdomen, if you feel inclined to read further, you might be advised to put a pegon your nose and close your earsto the rumblings, the grumblingsof Watt’s innards, for hereaboutslie the turd and fart buttons of ourWatt’s greatcoat, because Watt'sgreatcoat merits a very detaileddescription, one that has been passed down to us, and not byWatt, nor Mr Knott, nor Sam B,but yet it has been written.
I suspect it helps to know that Beckett wrote it while hiding with his wife in an isolated village in France during the German occupation, having fled Paris (often on foot and in inclement weather) following his involvement with the Resistance; that he wrote it with as near to no expectations for publication as he had written or would write anything in his life, more as a game to pass the time while waiting for the war to end than as a “serious” project; that it was his last work in English; that none of his previous books had sold even their meagre print-runs and there hadn’t been many of them, and he had never even remotely made a living from his writing.
And if I could begin it all over again a hundred times, knowing each time a little more than the time before, the result would always be the same, and the hundredth life as the first, and the hundred lives as one.”  - Beckett – Watt ”The house was in darkness.
Finding the back door now open, … Watt was able to enter the house.” Beckett – Watt ” Of course, for the time being, one makes do with little.
Human being is a strange creature… But some human beings are stranger than others…“Too fearful to assume himself the onus of a decision he refers it to the frigid machinery of a time-space relation,” – this is Watt’s lifestyle.“…but we know that we are no longer the same, and not only know that we are no longer the same, but know in what we are no longer the same, you wiser but not sadder, and I sadder but not wiser, for wiser I could hardly become without grave personal inconvenience, whereas sorrow is a thing you can keep on adding to all your life long, is it not, like a stamp or egg collection, without feeling very much the worse for it, is it not,” – and this is Watt’s wisdom.Samuel Beckett manages not just to make life nonsensical but also to turn every step of living into a preposterous act.


Watt the F*** !
Real Rating: 4.25* of fiveDamn me if this isn't better on an older-man re-read. This last of Beckett's Irish books written in English was absorbing in a way that it couldn't have been to the youth. The stultifying ordinariness of a bus-stop bench chat between a hunchback and a boring married couple now feels sharp and perceptive instead of punitive.Watt himself remains unknowable.I soldier on to the Trilogy.
I liked them very much so I also read my first Samuel Beckett - Murphy (5 stars).
Last year, I had a new job in the company I am still connected with and so I had to stop "punishing" myself and decided to read easier-to-understand books and lowered by 2013 Reading Challenge target from 300 to 200.
But hey, my point is that I love challenging books especially if they are well-written because I always like to push myself to my limit: be it at work, in a relationship and even in hobbies.
وات از نظر ترتیب زمانی، از نظر کیفیت ادبی و از نظر میزان بهتآوری، و به دید خود نویسنده، واسطی بوده بین دورهی اولیهی کاری بکت (شاخصترین اثر: رمان مرفی) و دورهی دورم کاری او. بکت در دورهی دوم تمام شاهکارهای پرمخاطبش رو نوشته (مولوی- مالون میمیرد- نامناپذیر- چشم به راه گودو) و بعد از اون هم هیچ اثر ضعیفی ننوشته. ویژگیهای منفی وات از مرفی به یادگار مونده و ویژگیهای مثبتش از جنس رمانهای بعدی و چشم به راه گودوئه. گاهی متهوارنه اونها رو هم پشت سر میگذاره و توجیه خوندن وات همینجاست.وات پر از گروتسکئه. ا
اما مشکل در اینجاست که خود اثر هم تا حدی از دست نویسنده گریخته (علت اصلی اینه که تازه داشته این شکل از آوانگاردیسم رو تالیف می‌کرده) و تبدیل به گروتسکی از اون چیزی شده که می‌شه تصور کرد این رمان، در صورتی که شاهکار می‌بود، می‌تونست که باشه.
مزه‌ای از زیبایی‌شناسی:اسم شخصیت‌های اصلی وات شبیه اسم تیپ‌های رمان‌های دیگه‌ست، و بر خلاف قاعده‌ها، تیپ‌های این رمان همون کسانی هستن که اسم دارن.
و بعد در طبقه‌ی اول، که می‌فهمه نات سر از چیزی درنمی‌آره و فقط به دنبال فرار کردن از فرار نکردنه.
Any time someone claims to be a realist writer, I direct them to this book to show them what a "realistic" book would actually be like.
That all three of these goals are impossible to meet and Watt therefore a failure should be no surprise to anyone who keeps in mind Beckett's's famous dictum, which could sell Pepsi: try again.
Fail better.
Fail at what?
Fail at what?
Well, how about writing an unreadable book (Watt is highly readable)?
And yet, for every tether that Beckett cuts, three more tie him to a ground as real as it is absurd, which to my mind makes Watt the best utter failure in literature, or at least the best I've ever read.
(Watt?) Charlie Sheen?
Perhaps you will come out understanding what may have been Samuel Beckett's intentions in creating this book, but not the content.
Or perhaps you will understand the content, but not the intentions.
Or perhaps you will understand the content, but not the intentions.
Or perhaps you will understand both the intentions and the content, but not enjoy it.
Or perhaps you will understand both the intentions and the content, and neither enjoy it nor not enjoy it.
Or perhaps you will understand the intentions and the content, and have thoroughly enjoyed the ride.
وات به خانه ی آقای نات میرود، به عنوان سرایدارد استخدام میشود و پس از آن که به سمت مدیر خدمات میرسد که قادر نیست درباره ی نات چیزی را اثبات کند پس خانه را ترک میکند و به خانه ی مجللی که شبیه به تیمارستان است میرود!سفر وات در واقع سفری درونی و ذهنی است.وات عقل گرایی فرتوت است که بارها با ماهیت پوچ و بیهوده ی تلاش هایش روبرو میشود و سکونی سرد سر تا سر ذهنش را فرا میگیرد.
وات در جستجوی گمشده اش است که با پوچ گرایی ِ دوران بعد از جنگ روبرو میشود.
وات به خانه ی آقای نات می‌رود، به عنوان سرایدارد استخدام میشود و پس از آن که به سمت مدیر خدمات می‌‌رسد که قادر نیست درباره ی نات چیزی را اثبات کند پس خانه را ترک می‌کند و به خانه ی مجللی که شبیه به تیمارستان است می‌رود!سفر وات در واقع سفری درونی و ذهنی است.وات عقل گرایی فرتوت است که بارها با ماهیت پوچ و بیهوده ی تلاش هایش روبرو میشود و سکونی سرد سر تا سر ذهنش را فرا می‌گیرد.
It is not that I did not enjoy it at all, because I certainly did.
Yet this is not a novel one enjoys, per say.
This is a novel one is frustrated and baffled by, and which makes one wonder if either the author is certifiably insane, of if the reader himself might be.
But that exactly is also what makes Beckett a good read: we read to be emotionally moved by experiences not our own – who ever said that these emotions just had to be positive ones?Although I did, however, laugh quite often while reading.
If I could give this 6 stars I would. My favoritist-favorite of Beckett. I reread this one quite often.
Possibly the most annoying book I've ever been profoundly unhappy to come to the final page of.
Anything less than 5 stars would be criminal. One of the funniest books you'll ever read.
Ik heb nogal wat vreemde boeken gelezen. Ik ken de absurde humor van Terry Pratchett en Douglas Adams, het in alle opzichten bijzondere Sneeuwwitje van Barthelme, de kakofonie van gekte van Lincoln in de Bardo, om maar wat te noemen.Watt van Samuel Beckett slaat alles. Het zal lang niet iedereen aanspreken want te gek (letterlijk!), maar ik ben erdoor gegrepen en het heeft mij bijzonder gefascineerd. Een leeservaring die ik nooit zal vergeten.Mijn volledige recensie: https://jkleest.nl/2018/05/watt-samue...
This book reminded me a lot of Molloy, the first in Beckett's famous trilogy, - especially the paradigms in which Beckett exhaustively writes out every possible combination and permutation of objects or people or word in any given scene.
At the same time, it creates an interesting 'obsessiveness' in Watt's character and this ODCD theme, which I can never figure out is reflective of the narrator or the character under description, is one which also recurs in Molloy with the 'sucking stones' routine.Some reviewers have said that this is a hard book to follow, perhaps because i have read the Molloy/Malone Dies/The Unnameable Trilogy already, I did not find this as difficult as some of his other works - for example, The Unnameable, which is the weirdest book of Beckett's I have read to date but it also features some of the most pristine, immaculate English prose I have ever read by a 20th Century writer.Watt is no exception.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2017.
در کمال دریغ و تاسف، روشن خواهد شد که آنها هرگز از این حد فراتر نرفتند، هر چند بار هر دویشان مایل بودند که از این حد پا پیشتر بگذارند.
دلیلش چه بود؟ آیا دلیلش پژواک یک زمزمه در قلبشان بود، در قلب وات، در قلب خانوم گورمن، پژواک عشقی در گذشته، اشتباهی در گذشتههای دور، و به آنها هشدار میداد که ملوثش نکنند و پیاش را نگیرند، در حفره کثافات ارضایی توام با تشنج عضلانی و لرزشهای شدید،گُلی به غایت زیبا، نادر، دلنشین، ظریف و شکننده؟ چنین تصویری ضروری نیست.
چون وات قدرتش را نداشت، و خانوم گورمن هم وقتش را
در کمال دریغ و تاسف، روشن خواهد شد که آن‌ها هرگز از این حد فراتر نرفتند، هر چند بار هر دویشان مایل بودند که از این حد پا پیش‌تر بگذارند.
دلیلش چه بود؟ آیا دلیلش پژواک یک زمزمه در قلبشان بود، در قلب وات، در قلب خانوم گورمن، پژواک عشقی در گذشته، اشتباهی در گذشته‌های دور، و به آن‌ها هشدار می‌داد که ملوثش نکنند و پی‌اش را نگیرند، در حفره کثافات ارضایی توام با تشنج عضلانی و لرزش‌های شدید،گُلی به غایت زیبا، نادر، دلنشین، ظریف و شکننده؟ چنین تصویری ضروری نیست.
چون وات قدرتش را نداشت، و خانوم گورمن هم وقتش را نداشت، قدرت و وقتی که حتی برای سردستی‌ترین در آمیختگی‌ها نیز ضروری است.
طنز زندگی!
Beckett's power comes from his language.
The first is the very rhythm and poetry of Beckett's diction.
These contradictions belie the greatest aspect of this piece--it is pure empathy to his dark and nihilistic world-view by forcing the reader to directly face contradicting information, the collapse of meaning and shifting focus.
Still, my concern about holes in my impression is comforted by the final words in the addenda, something I think Beckett wishes to impart on all his readers: "no symbols where none intended." If nothing else, hang on tight and enjoy the ride.
Frequently excruciating to read alone, but exactly the same passages are amazing and hilarious to read aloud. I suppose it is unsurprising that Beckett is best known as a playwright. As a novel, a couple really startling/chilling/disorienting scenes really help to jump this up from a literary oddity to a sort of illumination, probably of the human condition or somesuch. A rather perplexing piece of writing....The odd loveliness of this 1959 cover art deserves to be noted here. Thanks, weird bookstore down the street with weird old editions.
Читати це, чесно кажучи, неможливо і абсолютно нецікаво. Витратив цілий тиждень на прочитання. Іноді радували деякі специфічні жарти, що подекуди зустрічаються в книжці. Такий чорний-чорний гумор, майже постмодерністський. При цьому розумію, що це геніальний роман. Хоча і абсолютно нечитабельний. Якогось значного філософського підтексту там не знайшов. Це література абсурду, який там філософський підтекст може вкладатися? При цьому книжка дуже вдало відображає, як мені здається, внутрішній екзистенційний стан інтелектуалів під час Другої Світової війни.
This book dismantled me. I hated it. I threw it across the room more than once. It was wonderful. I can't recommend it, but read it anyway. Maybe you'll see what I mean.
Watt therefore marks a new beginning, breathtaking in its refusal to return to the previous ground of Murphy's triumph.That said, Watt is also, by pretty much any aesthetic criteria that I can come up with, a total mess.
Still, it's also breathtaking to a Beckett fan--especially when taken in chronological order--in how it announces, perhaps through exploration, so many of the interesting directions that the author's work will take over the course of the next 40 years.
Even so, it has a better love story than Twilight more mystery that a Gresham, and pseudo-philosophy than a Dan Brown--and, unlike all of these contemporary bestselling authors, Beckett writes in English!
The first and last chapters read like the first and last acts of a strange, sad, often hilarious, always absurd play. And in-between there is much strange, sad, often hilarious, always absurd inner and outer monologue, including loads of repetition and circumlocution and repetition. There are pages that you'll be tempted to skip. Beckett, I imagine, offered this temptation for a reason; a reason that rests, I hope, in his grave (or in the "grave" of a rarely read book of literary criticism). But I implore you to read these seeming mountains of monotone, if only to know what's Watt.
Watt will notabate one jotbut of whatof the coming toof the being atof the going fromKnott's habitatof the long wayof the short stayof the going back homethe way he had comeof the empty heartof the empty handsof the dim mind wayfaringthrough barren landsof a flame with dark windshedged aboutgoing outgone outof the empty heartof the empty handsof the dark mind stumblingthrough barren landsthat is of whatWatt will notabate one tot.
Maybe not exactly a fun book to read (at least not normally; of course, occasionally there are intervals of real amusing entertainment here, as is natural w/Beckett even in his most intentionally draining and "boring" work), but too brilliant for me to grant anything other than perfect score.
His writing in Watt is draining, pages will go by in which nothing has happened, and instead Beckett has listed literally every single option for what could happen based upon the snippets of information we already know for sure about these characters and this situation, and it will commonly be worded in a somewhat clunky, weird way that can lead to some of the novel's most perplexing and humorous sections.
