https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7810429-the-city-of-shifting-waters
Once I read Thorgal, Asterix, Pelisse and Valerian series the bar was set and it was set high.
So now that I learned that Luc Besson is (quite sneakily) making a movie adaptation for Valerian comic book I got so excited that I decided to reread good old stuff.
Valerian aka Valerian and Laureline is old fashioned all right, particularly in meaning of ideas and how science/technology works - yeah, we're travelling in time with one button push, scientists invent crazy stuff and it all works, villains are evil and plotting, sometimes it's all straight out silly and all you do is roll your eyes and laugh.
Lepi crtezi, slatka ali malo naivna pricica ali i odlicna postavka za lep dugacak serijal stripova.Mada kada se uzme da je ovo iz kasnih 60tih onda je prosto fenomenalno i svaka cast Pjeru i Zan Klodu na ovome.Cim nadjem sledece nastavke bacam se na citanje.
Has a pretty old-fashioned and, dare I say it, cartoonish look to it.
Laureline is mostly in the sidelines, with a supporting role and the whole shebang is a little sexist, but considering the comic's age I can live with that.My free Kindle edition (kindle unlimited/amazon prime reading) from 2010 does not have the best resolution, the speech bubbles are a little out of focus.The artwork grew on me pretty quickly.
Pretty chatty for a comic, though, with a lot of text.
Sometimes overly crowded with speech bubbles.I liked the artwork, colouring and plot.
The City of Shifting Waters is an old school comic created by French writer, Pierre Christin, way back in the 1970s.Valerian and her assistant (emphasis on the assistant), Laureline, are sent back to 1986 apocalyptic New York to capture a rogue time traveler and to prevent the villain from changing the past.Not much really happens in the story and you can easily see that the narrative is laced with misogyny which is expected considering this was a product of a time where sexism was still unchallenged.
I adored reading this type of comics when I was a kid but it was a different case with Valérian.
The hero has a big chin, and attractive sidekick, and a mad scientist villain who looks like about what I'd imagine if you said the words "French mad scientist".And I absolutely must harp on the text.
Comics are a visual medium, but whether it's the 1930 or 2017, there are always writers who jam too many written words on the page.
I remember reading old X-Men comics and realizing that I could skip most of the narration boxes and lose virtually no meaning.Valerian is in some ways worse.
Not a great first experience with graphic novels 😂. The plot was fairly boring and the writing was pitiable (maybe because it was translated from French, but I'm not sure). However, I do forsee myself reading other series (I may want to try manga, too) in the future.  Any suggestions??
Unfortunately, trying to track down where to start in English was tricky (no thanks to Goodreads, where the listing for these is a bit of a hot mess).
START WITH THIS ONE!!
Thankfully you can read it online here.Valerian & his assistant Laureline, agents with the Spacio-Temporal Service, must track down a nefarious villain that has time traveled from the 24th century back to the ancient year of 1986.
In that year, a hydrogen bomb accidentally exploded near the north pole, flooding coastal cities & wreaking havoc upon society.
This is the first time I've read any of the Valerian and Laureline series. Edward and I are going to be discussing a number of these Christin and Mézières stories for our upcoming Euro Comics episode, doing so in anticipation of the new Valerian movie. My sense of things, given this first volume, is that the movie probably won't retain the "lighter" side of this property. Mézières's art adds a more innocent (not the right word, I know) or youthful feel to the stories, even though Christin's subject matter is by no means simple.
I might have enjoyed this in middle or high school. Reading now, I found the characters flat and the story, or at least the style in which it was presented, dull. I'm willing to believe the dialog is better in the original language. Perhaps funnier? I felt like it was meant to be humorous, but the humor was left out by mistake. I ended up skimming out of boredom.The art was too cartoonish for my taste.Flooded cities are always a plus, though.
This story of time traveling agents in a environmentally destroyed New York City in 1986 to find a megalomaniac madman from the future is a fun adventure to read. I found the retro art to be charming, and the use of colors is different from what one typically sees in comics these days. The downside is that this was published more that 40 years ago, so there are some stereotypes regarding race and gender that would probably make modern readers uncomfortable.
This is the Valerian I remember the best from my youth. And it still works! Good, high adventure. Time has not biten this a bit. It is still as good as it was when I read it the first time in the 1970s.
Interesting concept, otherwise I would knock it down to one-two stars for being extremely dated, sexist, and outrageously cartooney in personality depictions.

I've only been able to find this in the french version. Never in my life have I been so excited to be bilingual! ;) Update: Okay, so fun story. Unlikely, as only a time-space travel story can be. And a little sexist at times (apparently, women's lib will take a giant step backwards in the 24th century, if a male author from 1970 is any kind of fortuneteller).I have high-ish hopes for the movie...
Read in prep for the movie. Love the art. Great and exciting cartooning, gorgeous colors. It's amazing that this pulpy time travel tale pre-dates Star Wars, and I wonder how much it owes to Flash Gordon. Looking forward to reading more!
If the whole series is this enjoyable, I am gonna squeee like a happy pig. Give all the stars!!!!!
Seeing the trailer for the upcoming movie, "Valerian - And the City of 1000 Planets", made me wonder about the backstory to this interesting tale.
The movie is based on a series of graphic novels, of which The City of Shifting Waters is the first.
There's a true retro look and feel to the story, which originally appeared in 1968, and it cleverly introduces our two main characters as time-traveling agents from the future.
Their mission is to return to the deteriorating Earth of 1986, chasing after a villain who plans to gather information from the flooded ruins of New York City with the intent of building his own space-time machines and conquering the galaxy.
I would have loved this if I'd read it when it was first published, if that had been possible. Now, though I can see the attraction, I'm less impressed. No regrets about reading it but it doesn't inspire me to go out and get the rest.
I was hoping for some Moebius or Bilal style avant-garde comic art, instead it was drawn in a pedestrian '60s style. Laureline is the female sidekick and doesn't have much agency, as she says, she's there because she can cook. The plot reminds me of period YA SF. I guess it was OK as a read once comic but I'm not reading anymore in the series.
Loved the whole "Space-Time Traveling" theme. And the whole end of the world, NYC vibes. The illustration was pretty dope too! A lot of text on the pictures but it's okay. Might consider reading the sequels. Definitely looking forward to the movie with Cara Delvigne!
Pretty cool old school comic. I requested that my local public library buy it since the movie is coming out soon. I will read the next volume if my library gets it.
Si è sempre detto che è una serie che cresce insieme al pubblico e uno degli sviluppi che ho preferito riguarda l’anno oscuro citato sin dal primo tomo, cioè il 1986, e che poi si assocerà al disastro di Chernobyl nel 13esimo, uscito 2 anni dopo.A ben guardare il concetto stesso di presente diventa fallace ed è da vedersi come un’unica storia senza un presente, senza inizio o fine ma che esiste, e ad un certo punto senza un luogo(casa) da quando la Terra scompare dallo spazio-tempo e i protagonisti sono gli unici terrestri rimasti nel cosmo in cerca del loro pianeta.
Got this for free from Amazon!Anyway, despite a childhood of Tintin and Asterix comics (among others) I'd never encountered this title till I came across the buzz surrounding the upcoming movie.
The artwork is pretty good -- perhaps a bit more cluttered than I prefer of European comics of the time -- and the story/dialog surprisingly light on the racism and sexism prevalent of the era.
I don't know if I care enough to seek out the other books, but it's certainly something I'd recommend to voracious young comics readers (especially since I'm now hesitant to do so for my once-beloved Tintin books.)
There's is a little problem regarding some of the early belgian bande dessinée: sometimes, it's like the books are written for kids. Not that I'm complaining, because that way everyone can enjoy it, but sometimes I want more, whatever that more is. The art is, as always, gorgeous, and the writing is heavy on words (as is the norm on BD) but I still like this book as I did when I read it the first time as a kid.
An enjoyable read that gave me a strong sense of nostalgia. It brings everything that a classic sci-fi comic book series needs; dashing heroes, exciting adventures, weird tech, and a pretty cool post-apocalyptic setting. It was not particularly deep or surprising, but it was very likable.
The plot is a little trite, but the style is very endearing. It's definitely an artifact of an earlier time in terms of pacing and narrative style. Laureline has no problem pointing out misogynistic BS, which is great. The art is wonderful.
An interesting period comic following time travelling adventurers.
Really enjoyed this old school art and adventure, which was nicely scripted and well paced.
Wow! He wrote it in '67, & was already fortelling the melting of the polar ice cap in 1987! It is contemporary today! Escape from new York meets Buck Rogers!
