https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175228.The_New_House_at_the_Chalet_School
It will prove a momentous term for her, involving victimisation but also strengthened friendships, near death and hilarious goings-on, midnight escapades and chance encounters.Boarding schools have long been a staple of children's fiction, from Tom Brown's Schooldays to the Harry Potter books, and enthralled authors such as Charlotte Brontë, Charles Dickens and Enid Blyton, to name writers from just the British canon.
Let us try to keep it always like his, even though other things come to us!"There's then a valedictory note to this instalment in the series when the four aver that "Whatever comes to us, nothing can alter our friendship," and that all their schooldays have been happy, with the girls being so much closer during the last term.

You just cannot beat Chalet School series for goodhearted moral wholesomeness delivered to the reader in a bygone English manner. This is Jo last term and definitely feels like the end of an era. Sad and exciting coming of age scenario. Cannot wait to see what happens in the not so distant future.
Always one of my favourite Chalet School books - ahhh, for the good old days in the Tiernsee, when Jo Bettany was a mere schoolgirl and not the mother of 5,000 children - The New House holds up rather well through the years.
Here, you see the original Quartet (Jo, Marie, Frieda and Simone) transferred to St Clare's, the new House for the middles as the Chalet School expands its grounds, missing the old school and settling down to new responsibilities, new mischief, and a new enemy in the form of the ridiculously self-important Matron Besly.
This book is complicated for me because my copy has lost two pages, the first one covering the description of the new house, the second when Jo's toothache starts.
She's not going to be Elisaveta's maid any more, because Madge needs her to help with the babies.
Except Madge doesn't need her to help with the babies, because she has an excellent nurse and is engaging a governess as well.
Joey's school career definitely ends on a high, and re-reading them now I can see why the books covering her period as head-girl were the ones I first collected in hardback.
The 11th book is Jo's last term at school, and she finds that she and the rest of the quartet are to move into the new chalet that has been built, along with the middle school.
To make up for the change (which Jo is cranky about, of course) she and the other prefects have their own private rooms.They have a new Matron in the new chalet, who tries to institute new rules, and plenty of pranks are played on her.
Eleventh in the lengthy Chalet School series, a book I had not read for at least twelve years, maybe more. It features Jo Bettany's last term at the Chalet School, where she is Head Girl. She and her four closest friends are shocked to find themselves moving to a new chalet as the most senior prefects. A new matron works there, who does not understand how the school works, and clashes with Jo. Despite being the abridged version, this was one of the better Chalet School books, with interesting sub-plots, and some good characterisation.
The New House is St. Clare's, where Jo and her pals Frieda, Marie, and the insufferable Simone are assigned as prefects to the middles who reside there. The new officious Matron Besley makes things difficult for the prefects during their last year at the Chalet School. Jo, who finally has to face beginning to grow up, was more interesting as a schoolgirl than as a grown up mother of three, four, five--actually 11 children. A bittersweet entry in the series.
This is a really enjoyable book - the 11th in the series. This features Joey and co moving to the new house - the Middles house. Adventures with a new and difficult matron, a jazz band and the usual exploratory adventures around the neighborhood!
Another great book. Love the line "Great caesar's bath mat", I mean where does that come from!! Hilarious antics as usual, and another dodgy matron. Rather subdued ending, with it being jo's last days at school.
Usually award a standard 3 to Chalet books because, much as I love them, they just do the job they set out to do. But this is one of my favourites, basically because it handles the theme of growing up so sensitively
lovely
I LOVE those school stories where suddenly there's a dreadful new Matron!
