https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8725.Comfort_Me_with_Apples
“When I got on the plane, I didn’t really know why I was [going to Barcelona]. But I [did] now. I needed to find out that sometimes even your best is not good enough. And that in those times you have to give it everything you’ve got. And then move on.” In reading Reichl’s culinary memoirs, I don’t know how I skipped over this one! This volume chronicles a momentous decade in her life that ultimately shaped her into the outstanding food writer and editor she is today. Reading her previous books
She didn’t always know what to do when a challenge presented itself, and there were quite a few things I’m sure she wished she could do over, but the way she unapologeticly relayed her shortcomings made her just that more endearing and relatable.She certainly came through on her food writing, and in this memoir she travels around the world!
Three I’m excited to try include her “Like Water for Chocolate” chocolate cake (that’s my title for it based on how she came about the recipe), Dottie’s spinach (pictured above with my dog, Dottie) and her mushroom soup, which I’ll never think of the same way after reading her introduction to it:
Reichl traces the rise of American foodie culture in the 1970s–80s (Alice Waters and Wolfgang Puck) through her time as a food critic for the Los Angeles Times, also weaving in personal history – from a Berkeley co-op with her first husband to a home in the California hills with her second after affairs and a sticky divorce.
Throughout she describes meals in mouth-watering detail, like this Thai dish: “The hot-pink soup was dotted with lacy green leaves of cilantro, like little bursts of breeze behind the heat.
… I took another spoonful of soup and tasted citrus, as if lemons had once gone gliding through and left their ghosts behind.”
I had to keep telling myself, "This is Ruth's life not yours, Doug is not your husband so you don't have to kill him." I mean I was judging Ruth too, but man (another Berkleyism I'm sure) Doug took the cake (well actually Michael got the cake but never mind that).
I liked Michael and was glad when they finally got married.
She had better not reveal in the next book what a creep he actually was.
Her China story is interesting though, I admired her chutzpah.
After she marries Michael they adopt a baby in unusual circumstances.
I stopped judging Ruth finally.
Ruth Reichl, food critic and former editor of Gourmet magazine, is a fluid and engaging writer.
Her stories about the early days of California Cuisine were interesting, as were the anecdotes involving people like Wolfgang Puck, Alice Waters, and the Aidells sausage guy before they became household names.
But too much of the book is about her personal life, which at this phase involved living in a commune in Berkeley and pursuing several extra-marital affairs.
Even if all her descriptions of meals had been for food I actually like, visions of unwashed, unshaven, unmarried people in flagrante would have killed my appetite.

I just could not get into this book--I have very little patience for people who want sympathy while living obviously self indulgent and absorbed lives.
This followup to Reichl's first memoir, Tender At the Bone, is as lush as its predecessor, if a little sickening as a comforting marriage splinters, a self is reinvented, and a longed-for child is gained and lost.Though she's well-known for writing about food, Ruth Reichl is just as adept at writing about the self, particularly when the self is caught in unfamiliar, transitional phases.In the beginning of Comfort Me With Apples, Reichl finds herself embroiled in one extramarital affair after the other.
Perhaps that feeling comes from having read Tender At the Bone.The part of Comfort Me With Apples that will stay with me the longest is the part about Reichl's adopted daughter, Gavi.
Maybe she'll meet some amazing guy she's still with in an inspirational "I needed to let myself be ready for myself" sort of way, and I'll want to throw the book at the wall.------------UPDATE:Finished.
When it comes to stories of hardship, I have a hard time relating to people whose escapism manifests itself in trips to Bangkok, Barcelona, Paris, etc.
Given the chance, that would be my desired means of escapism, but in the mean time I'm stuck with $1.99 movies and books like this.
P.S.-This book convinced me that I never, ever want to eat brains.
I love nonfiction , but I am always left wondering what happened, and this satisfied my hunger for more "book." And there is no surprise why--Ruth Reichl is a great writer and I wanted more.
I look up to her food life so much, and I felt like I was learning and growing alongside her in this book.
It's just captivating--the way she writes and the life she has lived--even in the most painful moments.
There is real emotion and life in her voice and her writing and that is just so rare.
*sigh* I love Ruth Reichl.
I wish I hadn't read this book: I ended up not liking Ruth Reichl at all.
I loved Tender at the Bone, so when I saw this book at Costco I bought it on impulse.
I enjoyed maybe the first 1/3 or 1/2--after all, I lived on Channing Way in Berkeley in the 70s also--and the book was an easy read, but she just seemed to make bad and then worse decisions in her personal life, and then justify each one, and eventually I realized I reading it just to finish the dang thing.
More great writing, more great recipes...especially the one for baked swiss pumpkin! It's become an annual fall dish.
I like reading about Reichl’s life in general, I love reading about her take on food in particular, but I hated reading about her marriage falling apart & her affairs.
A constant theme through restaurant critic Ruth Reichl’s memoirs Comfort Me With Apples is of food and cooking being therapeutic: it helps her go through difficult times, both professional and personal.
Sadly, these very intimate reminiscences of Reichl’s are what form the bulk of the book; the food interrupts these only now and then, and then only briefly, before Reichl plunges into more personal stuff all over again.
On the plus side, there are interesting little glimpses into the food scene in the 70s and 80s, and how very different it is from today (a food critic who has no idea what balsamic vinegar is?
When I picked up this book for book club (having not read the first), I never expected it to be as engaging as it was nor to have such a profound impact.In the beginning, I was drawn in by the author's engaging writing and beautiful descriptions of the food she encounters.
(hide spoiler)] It's so unlike my own experience that it's difficult to relate, but no less intriguing.
But she picks up from her loss.
And in those times, you have to give it everything you've got.
297) (hide spoiler)] It brought tears to my eyes.
Comfort Me With Apples is a good, racy read--full of delicious stories from real life and a few actual recipes.
Ruth Reichl, renowned food writer, has lived a full and adventurous life, not all of it soothing.
I confess I didn't read the first but am somewhat familiar with Reichl as a food celebrity and was curious what she might reveal about her life.
I think it helps to have an interest in food and cooking to read a book like this--she is prone to describe the meals, bite by bite, and she also expects you to want to know how to cook what she has described.
I don't know if its fair to write a review, since I haven't finished...but here I go anyway.If I were stuck with Ruth Reichl at a party and I had to listen to her droning on and on about her boring life, my eyes would glaze over and I would try to get away from her as soon as possible.
It *was* interesting to read about Ruth adjusting to expensive restaurants after life at a commune, but just when I would get interested, she would start talking about what she ate for dinner again.
A beautifully written, inspiring book, full of amazing descriptions of food (though some foods, like boiled brain, don't sound all that appetizing) along with recipes that are woven into this story.
This book is an autobiographical account of the author's early life as a restaurant critic.
This book I read chronologically out of order, but had already fell in love with the author, so her descriptions of affairs, pregnancies, joys, and burdens moved me.
I'd even give up vegetarianism for one night, because she truly makes eating dinner sound like such a sensual, life-altering experience.
I read this book on one part of a flight, and ended up in tears on the plane.
I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
I kept reading sections to my foodie husband, and it was just a delight to, on top of that, read about berkeley and boonville and truckee...
living in oakland, my husband cooked at the boonville hotel, and my parents live in tahoe.
Her love stories are so beautifully honest, and reminded me of one of my favorite authors, Marion Winick.
Her stories of trying to get pregnant, and her attempts to adopt - left me in tears.
I didn't like this quite as much as Tender at the Bone or Garlic and Sapphires. There wasn't as much food description, and I wasn't as interested in the details of Reichl's personal life here as I was in her childhood (in TatB) or her restaurant reviewing and sociological observations (in GaS). Still, there's much food goodness, and I like how she conveys her sense of comfort in food and eating.
Ruth Reichl wrote a trio of memoirs.
I read the first which was about her growing up years with her parents.
Comfort Me With Apples is the second in this trio.
This covers the period in her life, her marriage, beginning of her career, infidelities, divorce, remarriage, and a heartbreaking attempt at adoption of a little girl.
I felt she was very honest and didn't gloss over the things that put her in a bad light, or the parts that brought back heartbreak.
I am definitely going to be checking out the third and final in this trio and soon.
Excellent read.
I really enjoy her writing style. Even when I have absolutely no interest in eating the food she is describing, she makes it sound so wonderful, so I can enjoy it vicariously through her Reading her book is like sitting down with a friend for drinks - great conversation, some laughs, some funny moments, and even a pearl of wisdom or two. A nice way to spend some time. A couple of the recipes looked like I might try them (like Danny Kaye's lemon pasta, yum!)
This book covers the beginning of Reichl's career as a food critic, but more than that it covers some of her affairs and the disintegration of her marriage. It was a bit cringey, and not enough about food for my taste, but still very readable.
Entertaining, but shoddily written and kinda trashy. Ruth Reichl's like the paperback romance novel writer of the professional food writing world. Buy this book (and Tender at the Bone) at the airport, finish it on the plane, then leave it in the seat pocket in front of you.
Author is a very gifted writer. But this was a book about a bunch of really lost people focused on the wrong things in life. I ended up feeling sorry for them.
Over the past few years Food Writing/Memoirs has become one of my favorite genres.
It's like reading an extended episode of Netflix's "Chef's Table", which is as brilliant in storytelling as it is in cinematography.
Reichl's second memoir was easy to read, but offered some depth, seen mostly through her travels, and complex relationships.
What I often enjoy most in this genre are the descriptions of food, and Reichl's point of view as a food critic was very refreshing.
This book definitely hit the spot, and has helped fill the void of the recently announced death of my favorite quarterly, Lucky Peach.
It is a memoir and well worth the read. It tells of her beginnings as a food critic and her bohemian lifestyle in the 60's. Fascinating read along with some good recipes.
This was a treat to read, an escape into an appreciation of good writing, good food, good living, and good loving -- with heavy doses of not-so-good of the last on the side.
Although it is truly hard to beat the sensuality of two food writers entwined in their craft and each other while immersed in an illicit affair in France.
Nope, diet for a small planet doesn't always cut it, but it made me take a philosophical turn that has stayed with me.I have long admired Ruth Reichl's short form food commentaries in Gourmet, elsewhere, but I'm now going to grab her other memoirs.
When I read non-fiction, I sometimes am disappointed by how much is told about the author's personal life rather than about the topic I chose the book for (in this case, food).
Yet in Ruth Reichl's life food plays such a big part, that you probably cannot write about one and not mention the other.I have never met Ruth Reichl, but from what I've read (this and also Garlic and Sapphires: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise ) she seems extremely likable and nice.
Therefore, I laughed and I cried with this book.
I look forward to reading another stuff from her.
4.00I really enjoy Ruth's writing style and her descriptions of food are amazing.
I might not want to actually eat what she is eating but the way she herself enjoys the food and describes the experience almost makes me think that maybe I could try it someday.
I did not enjoy this book as much as her first memoir, Tender at the Bone, simply because the subjects in this second memoir are more challenging.
But through it all, food gives her a center and a supporting cast of friends to walk with her through the hard times.
Look, this book is templated on multiple MFK Fisher books. Lots of cooking memoirs are: personal reminiscence, recipe, personal reminiscence, recipe. Could be that MFK is using someone else's template. I don't know. At any rate, the format is familiar, the stories pithy (Danny Kaye was a gourmet cook, she chronicals a couple of affairs--not with Danny Kaye), the recipes tempting. Did it change my soul? No. Did it challenge my preconceptions? No. Was it a good read? A good time was had by all.
