https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141024.Snow_White_Blood_Red
From Little Red Riding Hood to Snow White, these are not stories that I'd share with my child or any impressionable young mind.Fairy tales haven't always been exclusively for children as Terri Windling explains in the introduction: "..most fairy tales were never initially intended for nursery duty.
And like furniture vanished to the children's playroom, the tales that have been banished from the mainstream of modern adult literature have suffered misuse as well as neglect." pg 2But fairy tales are important because they touch on dreams, archetypes, and the psyche.
They have despoiled my good master, the Marquis of Carrabas!" pg 319A close second was Troll Bridge by Neil Gaiman, based on The Three Billy Goats Gruff.

Because fairy tales are not the “sanitized” stories which we have read in comic books and children’s collections; they are far removed from the bowdlerised fantasies presented by Disney.
Windling and Datlow have collected tales from a fair cross-section of today’s foremost fantasy authors – most of them retelling old favourites in new light.
As the editors say:It is this interplay of light and shadow that we have sought to explore in creating this collection of stories, combining the Snow White of “high” fantasy fiction with the Blood Red of horror fiction.
These are retellings of classic Brothers Grimm and Hans Christian Anderson fairy tales that we're all familiar with with adult twists and turns put on them, some of them reworked in a modern setting, some not.
I enjoyed all of them, if only for seeing how all the tales I grew up with were subverted and twisted around.
I also enjoyed learning that these tales are probably closer to the original way that they were told, before parents and the Grimms and Anderson cleaned them up for children.
or just want to sock one to Walt Disney.
Average rating: 3.05 stars
It has been a long time since I sat down and read this book, and so I can barely remember a lot of my impressions and thoughts about it.
However, it retains a place in my book case for several reasons.The first reason why it will never leave my bookcase is because it contains a story called A Sound, Like Angels Singing.
This story, written by an author who I had not heard of at the time (Leonard Rysdyk), is pure genius.
And they have placed the stories together in a way that truly makes this collection a vibrant family of stories.
In hindsight, it's turned out to be for the better that I got into these fairy tale anthologies picking the books out of order, because had I started with this, the sheer mediocrity of the stories would've probably thrown me off of reading further volumes, and it'd have been a great loss, for there's dozens of amazing stories in this collection's books.As positives: the short story "I Shall Do Thee Mischief in the Wood" by Kathe Koja, a retelling of Little Red Riding Hood, with a Red that's very unusual and a "Wolf" figure that's more roguish than sinister, that was extremely good and enjoyable in my opinion.
That was about the only short story I liked, and needless to say, my favourite also.
I really enjoyed Charles de Lint's story, The Moon Is Drowning While I Sleep, and I liked Patrica McKillip's The Snow Queen, but other than that, I thought that a large number of the stories were too dark for my taste.Trigger warnings: Little Red contains implied seduction of a minor by a "wolf." In I Shall Do Thee Mischief in the Wood, it is implied that the narrator is intending to rape a woman.
If you like fairy tales for adults, I would recommend the other anthologies in the collection, unless you have a much stronger stomach than I do.
A terrific collection of fairy tales told and retold in the fashion of the originals. Violent with adult themes of angst and sexuality. This is Snow White before Disney diluted the tales. A fun and exciting read.
The original, or older, or simply "non-Disney" versions of most fairy tales are highly disturbing.
It seems that half the authors in this collection took that as a challenge to make modern fairy tales five times as disturbing as the disturbing originals.
This does not mean the tales are bad.
But the tales are often (not always) very difficult to read to to content.
Consider that a disclaimer, or the rated "R" rating for content.As with all collections of short stories, it is impossible to judge the whole by the parts.
If you read both you will see what I am talking about.
As a fan of fairy tales, I had great hopes for this collection of reinvented classics.
Sadly, most of the stories in the collection were fairly lackluster, neither inspiring new depth to old stories, nor faithfully recreating them.
This is a collection of fairy tales re-written for adults. It seems that when the authors, who are fabulous in their own right (i.e. Charles De Lint, Tanith Lee, Patricia McKillip), were asked to do work on this project they were just told to "make them for adults". This book reads like a contest to see how much sex, violence, and gore can be crammed into a beloved fairy tale. While one or two are engaging, most are filled with violence and sexual content. We cannot recommend this collection for anyone under the age of eighteen.
This collection of short stories are re-tellings of fairy tales. Some are very recognizable, told from varying view points or told in a different time. Others are more subtle but still maintain the fairy tale theme. Most of the stories are good, though there are a few that are a bit hard to get through. Some are funny, most are sensual, and all have been re-done to appeal to adults. There are several books in this collection, this one being the first. Fairy tale fans should enjoy this collection.
This was a book I really wanted to like because I love fairy tales and this book came very highly recommended to me.But unfortunately, while there are some real gems and worthwhile stories in here there are also a lot of only okay pieces and some I plainly disliked.
Modern retelling of Snow White from the 'Queen's' perspective as a modern woman with a dysfunctional marriage and a jealous obsession with a girl.
3/5The Changelings by Melanie Tem. I wanted to like this more because I love 'faery/changeling' type stories a lot but this was very bland for me.
There was only one story in this collection that I would say was actually good, and it was by Neil Gaiman (no surprise). There were a few others that were moderately enjoyable, but most were trying too hard to be weird, or dark, and they ended up missing the mark.
I could say, once again, short stories are not my forte, but after Lahens and the special few in this collection, I have to wonder.Long as this was, I was able to get through it rather quickly compared to the other works I have had ongoing, so this work at least served as a respite when I didn't have as much brain capacity after both school and work for casual reading.
The usual short story excuse pops up, but it's also a matter of fantasy largely being a sort of free for all when it could be so much more, and as cloying as Valente was at times, she's far more cohesive, even sexy, than the vast majority of these selections.
I was really looking forward to this book. I actually recognized a few of the authors (not something that happens much for me), one of which happened to be Neil Gaiman.Seeing this book went something like this: Wow, what a neat cover. Oh, fairy tale retellings? That sounds like it would be something I'd real- OMFG NEIL GAIMAN MUST BUY NOW Yea, that's basically how it went down in the store. Maybe a bit more fangirling and squealing, and clutching of the book. Maybe. I won't admit to it though. I
I actually recognized a few of the authors (not something that happens much for me), one of which happened to be Neil Gaiman.Seeing this book went something like this:
At the beginning of each story, there's a small sentence or two so you know which tale is being retold, which I found helpful since there were some in here I had never heard of, like Little Poucet.
I can't place what I didn't like about it), but it's still worth reading just to hear the different ways authors interpreted classic tails.
I wouldn't say this book is for everyone, but if you enjoy adult fairy tales, you'd like this one.
I really wanted to read this book because it was a collection of retold and twisted fairy tales and I'm obsessed with books like that!
I think that if you're looking for good fairy tale retellings, even of the darker sort, you can skip this anthology and look elsewhere for something better and more worth your time.
I do think that people would enjoy some of the books in this collection so perhaps that might draw more people to this anthology even if all of the stories didn't meet my expectations.
This came very close to being a five-star book, and it was easy for me to see why it's garnered so much admiration amongst fans of retold fairy tales.
Most of the stories in this collection felt just the right "length" to give fairy tales a deeper exploration without dragging them out more than necessary.
As I work on my own fairy tale short story/novella, it served as a really good model for the myriad ways in which such a story could be successful.
Leonard Rysdy’s “A Sound, Like Angels Singing” was especially unique and interesting, even though it was not one of my favorites.
McKillip’s “Snow Queen” and Lisa Goldstein’s “Breadcrumbs and Stones” were great stories that also had interesting premises.
It isn’t that I mind more adult versions of fairy tales in principle.
But I think that an author who chooses to tell a darker version of a particular tale should only include sex and violence to enhance the story.
Tanith Lee’s novel White as Snow is a good example of a writer accomplishing this in a fairy tale retelling.
With the exception of a few stories, mostly contributions by Charles de Lint and Neil Gaiman, I was over all disappointed.
This collection of short stories means to bring dark twists to classic fairy tales for a more adult audience to enjoy.
Most these stories just contain very awkward sexual scenes, some of which even include child molestations, which is beyond my comfort zone.
I feel most these authors thought adding sexual content would make these tales really tantalizing, but I mostly skipped over them.
Im most likely just disappointed because I had impossible standards for this collection.
This was something I had been looking for all of my adult life: darker re-telling of classic fairy tales.
It's probably the reason this was a disappointment.
There are a few standouts, such as Neil Gaiman's re-telling of The Billy Goats Gruff (which reminds me I must returnto Gaiman's Sandman comics soon) and Gahan Wilson's take on The Frog Prince, but the rest left me cold.
I guess I was looking for something that would capture the same wonder The Magic Realm of Fairy Tales my mom read to me when I was a wee lad.


Started off promising. The first few stories were really good but it seemed to kind of drop off from there. That's one problem with anthologies - you usually don't like all the authors. Some of the fairy tales were interpretations of established stories, others seemed to come from out of the blue. Generally, the interpretations were not as good as the original stories in this collection. The more disappointed I got, the more I skimmed and didn't bother actually read.
While I enjoyed the stories they all started feeling the same. They are a retelling of fairy tales like Cinderella, Puss in Boots, Hansel and Gretel, etc. These take the brothers Grimm route. Very dark, very adult, very erotic. While it was interesting having such a spin put on them it felt like it was only one spin, sex. While that's not all bad they just started blending together after a while.
This is the first fairy tale collection that Datlow and Windling did. It includes several intersting and very dark (and adult) retelling of stories. Overall the collection is excellent. Stand-outs include Yolen's dark poem about Cinderella, "Stalking Beans" about Jack and the Beanstalk. A wonderful retelling of Puss in Boots, that harkens back to the older story that few people know.
This is a fine collection of dark adult fairy tale re-tellings. I love fairy tales and believe they resonant with the deepest and sometimes darkest aspects of our collective human culture and nature.
This book is not quite what I thought it would be. It's very edgy and intense,not the fairy tales of my youth. That being said,I liked this book just for it's interpretations of the classic fairy tales that i grew up with. This book takes the tales to a whole new level. I give it 4 stars.
I was a bit disappointed with some of my old favorite authors' offerings, but you know how it goes with anthologies. They have their ups and their downs.
