https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12930.Messenger
Kira, Leader and Matty all seem to have magical powers...where did their powers come from.
But we have no magic, so where did it come from.
All of the books in this series are allegories...The Giver showed what happens when people try to prevent any painful experience from ever happening to the people in its community...Gathering Blue showed a corrupt society where people had forgotten how to care for one another...and Messenger showed how a society that was based on caring principles could become corrupted.
I look forward to reading Son, the final book in this series.
This series should've stopped with the Giver.Mostly because: That. Ending.  ARE YOU KIDDING ME??? deeep breathsOkay, let me back up a bit. In this quasi-magic, quasi-dystopian world, we have humans with magical gifts living in harsh, cruel and primitive villages.In the previous book we followed Kira, who was gifted with great artistic skills with embroidery (talk about a disappointing super power!) as she is used and abused by those in power. This book, we follow Matt (Kira's old companion). Thi
In this quasi-magic, quasi-dystopian world, we have humans with magical gifts living in harsh, cruel and primitive villages.In the previous book we followed Kira, who was gifted with great artistic skills with embroidery (talk about a disappointing super power!) as she is used and abused by those in power.
This book, we follow Matt (Kira's old companion).
I'll finish this series but my heart isn't in it anymore.Audiobook CommentsWell-read and a pleasure to listen to.
Major spoilers ahead, so read at your own risk.First of all, I was more than a little confused to learn that Jonas literally arrived in Village (also, this trend of capitalizing nouns and not putting "the" in front of them--annoying as fuck) on a sled.
There's this shady fellow called Trademaster who is apparently magical in some way, because he's collecting "the deepest self" of many of the people in Village and trading them for these slot machines.
Arrrrrgh!
(In the best way...)I was 15 pages from the end and said to my husband, "I don't see how this is going to end!" So when I get to the end, I moaned, and he asked whether it was a bad ending, to which I replied, "Really good--but bad."And that is all I can tell you.
This is one you really must read if you have not.
I think I might even read it again to really "get" it.
If you can, start with The Giver and go right through to Gathering Blue and then Messenger.
I don't know how these two "sequels" to The Giver escaped me for so many years!
The plot of this very short book (less than 200 pages) is centered on Matty's life and his special ability.
Also, some of the people in the Village are getting obsessed with this trading thing that goes on.
When people trade, they start to change.The traders end up wanting to close Village to new refugees, so Matty must go and bring Kira back before Village is closed for good.
Also, the resolution just felt kind of unsatisfying.I really liked Matty and will still read the final one.
Did the guy named Trader who brought trading to Village have some ability or something?
HOW CAN IT END LIKE THAT?
GET ME BOOK 4 ASAP BEFORE I LOSE MY SANITY.
This book is incredible.
I confess to not loving Gathering Blue, but I think that was more because I was confused it wasn't directly about The Giver.
I wish I'd reread Gathering Blue before this one, though, because Messenger features...MATTY!!
From Gathering Blue!
It could be viewed as "too simple" but that's half the reason I like it.
It was very nature-survival-ish, actually, which is quite different from the other books.
But I LIKE.
Like less than 200-pages and yet WOW.
The first two books, The Giver and Gathering Blue deal with utopian societies.
This book takes place in a village with all the outcasts from these utopian societies.
It's called the village of the Broken, people with some deformity, disfigurement or handicap that were ousted from their home village now live here.
Then these auctions called Trademart starts and it's simple at first, where people trade one good for another.
People mock others behind their backs, no one wants to help others anymore and now they want to close their village to any new outcasts, fearing the village will run out of supplies and resources.

I think this is the most boring book of the series so far. Very little happened really, although we did get one revelation (view spoiler)[ Matty is a healer. (hide spoiler)] Otherwise I spent most of this book bored. 5 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's just hard for me.Matty didn't appeal to me as much as Jonas or Kira had in the previous novels, and while his struggles were interesting I felt it focused entirely too much on the journey through the forest while I was really wanting to know more about what was going on in Village as well as how exactly things were progressing in Kira's village that was featured in Gathering Blue (at the end of that it's in a pretty big mess, but we never get a real idea of HOW it changed or why).I felt this definitely could have used 50 more pages to flesh out different aspects of the story, and even then it still would have been pretty short!
Messenger is the third book after The Giver and Gathering Blue.
Matty, who befriended Kira in Gathering Blue, is the main character in Messenger.
Village, under Jonas' leadership, welcomes those who have escaped from other communities.
Matty is sent into the forest with messages for the other communities and to bring Kira back before the wall goes up.
Matty and Kira's journey through the forest is delightfully eerie and will keep the pages turning.The exact natures of Trader and the suddenly magical forest (remember that it was actually harmless in Gathering Blue) are never revealed, so even though some questions are answered, others are left unanswered.
While the plot issues with Gathering Blue weren't resolved in this one, it stood on it's own better as a story.
I loved Matty in this, and all the other characters too, like Seer, Leader (who's totally Jonas), Jean, and Kira from Gathering Blue.
I wished there had been a bit more in some areas, but found myself deeply engrossed throughout and read it all in one sitting (it is very short though, so that isn't exactly a bragging point).
I'm excited to read Son now, which is considerably longer than Gathering Blue and Messenger, possibly even combined.
The third (and final?) installment of The Giver books.
The Giver was more uptopic/dystopic worlds, Gathering Blue had a Sci-Fi feel, and this one was more fantastical.
I enjoyed it very much.One complaint: if I met the reader on the street (I audio booked it) I would say, "Hey guy, SLOW DOWN!
St. Elsewhere has been cancelled; what are your rushing off to?"Addendum: The more I thought about this book since completing it, the more annoyed I became.
What happened?
What about Kira's community?
What ever happened to the Singer?
The only community where we had closure was Jonas'.
This third book in the author's The Giver Quartet features characters from both The Giver and Gathering Blue.
The author continues to build a very convincing fantasy world in which individuals with a variety of physical and/or emotional wounds as a consequence of life in a dystopian community are welcomed into Village, a place where they are valued and where their individual gifts are recognized and nurtured.As I expected from this author, the very strong undercurrent of spirituality is continued.
This element is, in my opinion, slightly too melodramatic in the ending of this book; hence, I give it a slightly lower rating.
Nonetheless, it is well worth reading as a sequel to the previous books.

With the Messenger, there are a few familiar faces, but it is kind of a brand new setting.We follow Matty, after his dog Branch has died, as he lives in the village with Lira's blind father, named the Seer.
Gradually Matty starts noticing changes in those around him and while the village was once welcoming to those who were escaping, they now do not want newcomers.I'm still not sure what to make of this series.
It seems each book could be read on their own and there is very little overlap.
I honestly cannot think of one thing I didn't like about this book.
Full of surprises and twists and allegories and ugh ugh UGH I'M NO GOOD AT WRITING REVIEWS FOR BOOKS THAT I REALLY LOVED.
Even the ending, as it broke my heart into little smithereens.
I loved how the characters from THE GIVER were finally reintroduced into the story (AT LAST A BIT OF CLOSURE *gasps desperately and hugs Jonas*) Matty was definitely my favorite.
And I LOVE LOVE LOVE books that make me think.Like THE GIVER, I couldn't put this book down.
This is the third book written by Lois Lowry, after "The Giver" and "Gathering Blue".
The "Messenger" focuses on Matty, a character who briefly appeared in "Gathering Blue".
We can see that everything is doing fine in the village he is currently living, but something ominous is approaching.
I loved the scene were Matty suggested to heal Kira's leg and she refused, stating that the limp was part of her identity, and it made her whole and complete, teaching her to be stronger and to take pride in her pain.I became really enthralled with the novel and is one of the best books I have ever read in my life.
#3 of the Giver series and this one may be the turning point for me in the series, in a good way.
But it also scares me how it still resonates today, especially in the wake of this awful 2016 US Presidential Election.
Some of those who had been among the most industrious, the kindest, and the most stalwart citizens of Village now went to the platform and shouted their wish that the border be closed so that 'we' (Matty shuddered at the use of 'we') would not have to share the resources anymore.
Odd as it is, I feel like Messenger did a better job of hearkening back to The Giver than Gathering Blue, merely by putting us inside the head of another likeable male protagonist.
With Messenger, things start out just the way they should.
He’s just beginning to grow up, and realize that there is more to the world than meets the eye.
He’s even beginning to experience the stirring of new power within himself, just like Jonas—Jonas could “see beyond,” The Giver could “hear beyond,” and Matty—well, he can fix a frog.
It's not that this book was bad per se.
It is like the others in this series, beautifully written and deals with beloved characters.
However, it would be a stretch to say I liked it.
The series has toyed here and there with fantastic ideas, but they could be explained, if at a stretch.
The Messenger is dealing with things like sentient forests and paranormal powers and it comes out of nowhere.
Ultimately though, I didn't like this book because nothing was concluded.
The thing is, you can't force salvation.
This is not a satisfactory end to a book.
I LOVED The Messenger!
Now I finally understand how it is a companion novel to The Giver and Gathering Blue.
It is just fantansic how Lois Lowry separates the three villages, showing how the flaws of Jonas and Kira's towns had flaws which can tear people apart and in Village where people are drawn together, caring for one another in community.
What happens when selfishness, jealousy, vanity, greed, pretty much the seven deadly sins come into play: The Messenger is heart-wrenching and the ending is so sad.
It was a great ending to a great series.
Review written in 2007.
This wasn't as good as the first two books. I still enjoyed the storyline and the style of writing, but it just seemed a bit more sloppy and rushed. It wasn't explained well at all. What exactly were the people in the Village trading? Why couldn't Matty use just a part of his gift? What happened when they got back? It just had too many loose ends and vague plot holes. Moving on to the last book, hoping it will tie everything together better.
المدهش في هذه السلسلة الرائعة من الاربع روايات التي كتبتها لويس لاوريان بين كل جزء والاخر مالا يقل ع
My heart feels like it's been shredded.
Shredded like...
Look at me, already having to cut myself off so as not to spoil anything.THIS BOOK, GUYS.
Gathering Blue was really good - I liked it quite a lot.
*nodnod* But Messenger??
EXCUSE ME WHILE I GO SOB IN A CORNER.Me at the beginning of the book: Yeah, this is good!
I like Matty.
This is a darn good story.Me by the end of the book: AKDJOAKEGNEVDF WHYYYYYY???
Even if The Giver wasn't amazing, I connected with Jonas and I was EAGER to know what happened to him.
In Messenger, that question is answered.
This sequel is set in the same fictional-but-strangely-like-our-own world as The Giver and Gathering Blue.
In it, in another lively and exciting story, Lowry continues to examine ideals and problems of socialism.
I've really enjoyed the whole group of these books.However, the very end of this one made me mad.
I don't know what I expected, and I probably wouldn't have minded it, actually, except that she chose to include some hints earlier in the book that make the end feel like pretty damn certain allegory.I never thought I'd say it, but Lois Lowry has let me down.
For some reason when reading book #2 and saw the name Christopher, I pictured Jonas.
That said, Matty and Kira's journey back to Christopher became hell-like.
In the mean time, Leader (with powers to see beyond) kept Christopher updated in his children's (Christopher had considered Matty his son) travel.
When Leader saw that Matty and Kira was at death's door, he went after them.
Kira with powers to depict what's ahead through her threading saw that Leader was on his way to meet them.
It became apparent that it was time to use Matty's power though he felt it wouldn't do much considering his condition.
برادر کوچکم همیشه مخالف سرسخت سیگار کشیدن من بود؛ گاهی حتا مثل اسفند روی آتش بالا و پایین میپرید و غر میزد و فغان میکرد که «نکش، جانم؛ نکش، برادر من.» بعد گاهی که سیگارم را چند پک مانده به فیلتر خاموش میکردم، غر میزد که «خوب حیف شد!
پولش را دادهای!
چرا تا آخر نمیکشی؟!» حالا حکایت ِ من و این مجموعه شده.
اینقدر از دو کتاب اول بدم آمده اما باز هم تقلا میکردم بقیهاش را بخوانم.
چرا؟ «چون پولش را داده بودم!»ـاین کتاب را نتوانستم تا آخر بخوانم.
سرعت مطالعهام به خاطر زور زدنم برای خواندن این کتاب کم شده
چرا تا آخر نمی‌کشی؟!» حالا حکایت ِ من و این مجموعه شده.
این‌قدر از دو کتاب اول بدم آمده اما باز هم تقلا می‌کردم بقیه‌اش را بخوانم.
چرا؟ «چون پولش را داده بودم!»ـاین کتاب را نتوانستم تا آخر بخوانم.
سرعت مطالعه‌ام به خاطر زور زدنم برای خواندن این کتاب کم شده بود.
من که سیگار ِ دست‌پیچ ِ نازنینم را اگر لازم باشد نصفه خاموش می‌کنم، از پس ِ نصفه خواندن ِ این کتاب هم برمی‌آیم!ـلحن داستان بیمزه و خنک است؛ اصلاً معلوم نیست دنیای جلد اول که این‌قدر علمی‌تخیلی بود چرا یک‌دفعه این‌قدر فانتزی شده.
Messenger is the last in the trilogy that commenced with the ever popular The Giver, and which then was followed by Gathering Blue.
Unfortunately the first two novels proved to be difficult acts to follow successfully, in my opinion.
This story seemed somewhat contrived, haphazard and written with less creative flow.
I was left with a lot of unanswered questions by the end, and felt slightly ripped off and let down.
Ultimately I feel the story had the potential to be so much more.
Ah, well, I would still recommend the series for children, as I do find there are a lot of morality issues addressed as well as an underlying meaningful social commentary.www.booksnakereviews.blogspot.com
I was not impressed with this follow up book to The Giver and Gathering Blue. I felt no emotional ties to this book or the characters even though the characters were not new to the story. This totally missed the mark for me. Hopeful that Lowry will finish strong in the final installment to this series. I only recommend this book if you want to have a few answers from book 1. Did not like the plot at all!
