https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/454634.Vampires_and_Vampirism
It gives you a chapter on vampires in general, followed by ways that vampires are formed and what type of people are most susceptible to becoming one, and the rest of the chapters are about vampire lore in different countries, usually told through stories from various time periods.
Then there is a chapter for miscellaneous vampire things that don't fit elsewhere, a chapter on living vampires, and finally, a chapter on whether or not vampires actually exist.It's not a book bogged down with detail after detail about vampires, but it's a start, an introduction, if you will, into the lore surrounding the vampire.
Given that Dracula was published in 1897, one cannot help but wonder if this little gem was published in response to the popularity of the Stoker novel.An academic work first published in 1914, this book traces the vampire legend and belief through history and throughout the world.Its discussions include: Babylonia, Assyria, and Greece; Great and Greater Britain; Germany and Surrounding Countries; Hungary, Bavaria, and Silesia; Servia and Bulgaria; Russia, and the Orient.Reading this, I felt as though I were Van Helsing or Carl Kolchak researching a real threat.An enlightening and fun exploration.
This charming, long-standing treatise in early vampirology is a must-have for all paranormal-fans that want a more “nonfictional” look at the bloodthirsty night stalkers. It even goes as far as to include “accounts” of vampirism, as well as many, many sources that explain the mythology behind vampires...For the entire review please go to the Best Paranormal & Urban Fantasy Review site on the web, Bitten By Books for the review of Vampires and Vampirism : Legends from Around the World in it's entirety. You won't be sorry.
From the inside flap - The Book of Vampires is the first serious study of vampirism in the English language. It assembles reports from all ages and from all countries, and discusses various theories of vampirism. (Not the first and certainly not from all countries, but a good cross section and variety.)
You can only tell the same story so many times before it starts to get old. This is a collection of hundreds of vampire accounts throughout the ages, but all of them are basically the same with a few minor tweaks here and there. It was entertaining at first, hence the two stars, but I quickly lost interest.
A book for the folklorist, this little tome is light on systematically looking at who and what vampires are. A bit confusing at times: in places the vampire is little more than a ghost. Or maybe a zombie. Also, the stories at times were similar, so it did not seem to make a difference that the chapters were organized by place.Some cool stories though.
