https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88890.1876
The widowed Charlie Schuyler returns to New York with his widowed daughter, who was born in France during the 40 years that he was living there.
This book, which is a delight to read, reveals the corrupt nature of politics in 19th century USA but does not leave one feeling bereft of hope for the country.
It is a tribute to the ideals of the USA that books such as Vidal wrote, which re-write history in a critical way, are not banned in the same way as they are in other countries.I cannot wait to begin reading my next Vidal!
I'm going through my Gore Vidal collection and am re-reading (and in some cases for the first time reading) the Narratives of Empire collection.
This is the way America was/is not as the gullible unhistoric American public perceives it.
1876 is not only a narrative of post-war Washington/New York high and political society, but a comedy of manners.
Now I want to find a good bio of General Grant and James A Garfield (I believe a new bio is out on him).
1876 is a very timely book, only 136 yeas later, the boodle and stakes is bigger.RIP America.
i like historical fiction.
i also like books that take place in 19th century new york city.
that being said, this book contains both those elements but just didn't do it for me.
gore vidal is a phenomenal writer (as if gore f*ing vidal needs me to validate that) but here he gets too pre-occupied with NYC high society and the story goes nowhere.
or maybe the NYC socialites were the whole story.
either way i had a hard time finishing it.
the first person memoir style was killing me by the end -- especially b/c the narrator is a pretentious old man who keeps complaining about his sore knees and his aged back.
This is the book that looks at the Presidential election of 1876. In that Centennial year that gave us President Rutherford B, Hayes in the most corrupt election of many corrupt elections. That election was stolen, the votes of the people were thrown out. (Does this sound familiar?) and corrupt politicians, legislators and the current sitting President, U. S. Grant all joined together to steal the Presidency for Mr. Hayes, and brought the country close to second Civil War. Gore Vidal brings it all to life by bringing the reader into the action in his usual brilliant way.
Pure Vidal - historical fiction, highly readable decent writing, part of a trilogy, lots of irony, satire, a good time. Doesn't particularly hold too steady in terms of narrative, uneven at times, but lots of fun nevertheless.
Knowing that Vidal ran for political office a couple of times as a Democrat may explain a certain complaisance when it comes to the portrayal of that party’s corruption here and political corruption in general.
Or perhaps Vidal just understood human nature.The results, at any rate, are worth the effort.
The style may feel pretentious, but that’s because Vidal expresses himself in a way that pretentious people are particularly drawn too.
It is set in 1876, the American centennial, with all the drama of Reconstruction, the corruption of the Grant administration, the grand defeat of Custer at Little Big Horn, and of course, the 1876 election, which was a disputed election that made the election of 2000 look like a costume ball.
For the coming year, Schuyler, the illegitimate son of Aaron Burr and father of a European princess by marriage, would end up in the thick of this disputed election.The problem with this novel is that Vidal uses it as a vehicle to slam all the things that he hates.
Due to that, the lessons of this book are as prescient now as ever, and maybe they always will be America; which Gore Vidal must have decided back in 1976 when he wrote this and focussed on the election of 1876 as one of the bench-marks for his Narratives of Empire series, alongside more famous events, such as the Civil War and "Black Tuesday".Charles Schermerhorn Schuyler is a recently impoverished writer who returns to America after thirty years in europe, where he witnessed the events that led to the Paris Commune.
Schuyler, the illegitimate son of Aaron Burr, has returned to the United States inlate 1875 from many decades of residence in Europe (mainly France) as a writer in hopes of recouping his wealth, lost in the panic of 1873.
He also tries to aid his fellow Democratic, Tilden, whom he hopes will make him ambassador to France.
After Charles watches Hayes becoming president under dubious circumstances, Denise dies in childbirth and Emma marries William.
Charles, distraught over the loss of his ambassadorship and of Denise, dies while writing a book about the election.
Vidal tackles the election of 1876 with the same historical fiction lens as Burr and Lincoln, only for a period in American history that deserves as much public awareness as the founding and Civil War. And, brother, is this one timely.
Questionable election returns, the Democrat candidate winning the popular election, faithless electors turning the decision over to the House, who make a sweetheart deal between Republicans and Southern Democrats to let the Republican win -- sound familiar?
This election set the precedent for all of 20th Century U.S. politics, from the corruptibility in the President's Cabinet to Nixon's Southern Strategy to Bush v.
Gore to the 2016 election.
I read this one immediately after reading Vidal's Burr, its predecessor, during the winter break from school of 1983/84. As usual, with Vidal, the book is well researched, its events plausible.
As America approached its bicentennial in post-Watergate/Vietnam/Embargo disarray, Gore Vidal published this account of another low point in American history: the elections of 1876, a.k.a. the FIRST Supreme Court-decided, Florida-related presidential debacle.The main character, Charles Schermerhorn Schuyler, is a political journalist who has just returned to the States after a lengthy stay in Europe.
Scandal flows through the age like debris down the muddy Potomac.In the extremely intimate narrative, Schuyler chronicles political society before and during the contested presidential election of Tilden (D-NY) v.
As the outcome of the election materialized - a Hayes victory, in return for the end of Union occupation in the South - Schuyler underwent a subtle personal transformation.
After a 38 year European sojourn, Charles Schermerhorn Schuyler, bastard son of Aaron Burr, returns to his native Manhattan with his widowed, 35 year old daughter Emma, the Princess D'Agrigente (the title is Napoleonic); his short-term goal is to secure work as a journalist, since his fortune was wiped out in the crash of 1873, his long-term mission to gain a diplomatic post which will enable himself to spend his final years in France, and to find the Princess a rich, American husband.
democracy has made it impossible to be a gentleman invert and wit," and this goes, I think, some way to explaining the inanities he's been babbling for the last 30 years or so (I saw him speak once at Pomona and was disgusted by what he'd become), although his basic type is quite common in the history of America; the disillusioned,cynical aristocrat, modeled on Henry Adams and other scions of noble families who feel that America hasn't quite lived up to what they deserve.P.S. I feel compelled to mention, now that I've loused him up so, that Gore Vidal can be seen on Youtube claiming that Bellow was better than Hemingway, Fitzgerald Faulkner.
The middle novel of Vidal's trilogy of historical fictions recording the development of American democracy through the story of Aaron Burr and his descendants, 1876 shows our nation at our centennial, ten years after the Civil War. The centerpiece of the tale is the first presidential election in which the winner of the popular vote failed to receive a majority of electoral votes--and it is every bit as edifying a spectacle to watch unfold as the second.
Vidal makes them all come alive.
And his book reemphasizes for me that those seeking a golden age of principled policy making, temperate rhetoric, compromise and earnestness among politicians would be well advised to avoid the study of American history.
If you think politics is bad today, you can find precedent in our history.
The election of 1876 was won by Governor Tilden with a 250,000 vote plurality, but it was stolen from him in the electoral college by just one vote.
Bribery and fraud literally created two sets of ballots in Louisiana, and mysteriously changing vote totals in Florida and South Carolina gave the election to Rutherford (Rutherfraud) Hayes.
It is a story without a happy ending, but also eye-opening history wrapped in some pretty good art.
And it is a good reminder that history is merely prolog.
I spent the first three quarters of this book occasionally noticing that there wasn't really a plot, but never caring due to the sheer entertainment of Gore Vidal's dialog.
My theory was that Vidal saw parallels between the vapid decadence and banal corruption of the USA of his time and that of the country a hundred years prior.
Then the plot kicks in in the last quarter of the book and it is gripping!
It is surprisingly gripping for a story of a little-known presidential election and incredibly journalistic for a historical novel.
I thought that the very end was a little tacked-on but all in all a solid Gore Vidal.
This was a very interesting and fun read. I would recommend reading first Burr and Lincoln, the first two books chronologically in Vidal’s Narratives of Empire series as there are characters from both of those that make an appearance in this tale. Vidal has an excellent eye for historical detail and makes the reader feel immersed in this Reconstruction setting. The plot flows along rather well, and I enjoyed the tone of the book. As it was written in the style of a journal by the main character, it made the reader feel more intimately connected with the story.
Мудна и трудна за четене ми беше тази книга. Може би защото очаквах по-скоро нещо като любимата ми "Сътворението"...Освен това не разбрах откъде се появи този пълномощник министър на България през 1876?
It managed to be exciting despite the known outcome.
Gore Vidal books make me wish I'd paid more attention in American History class.
1876: The year everybody fell asleep reading this boring book.
He witnesses the scandals of Grant’s second administration, and the financial chicaneries that often involved the railroad barons.He chronicles the events, the tactics and the conflicted resolution that brought Hayes in the U.S presidency, despite the fact that that Samuel Tilden won the popular vote and led the electoral college.
Money played a big part, too.As the deals were hammered out to settle the election, Hayes agreed to end Reconstruction in the South giving the states the ability to treat African Americans as they saw fit.
After leaving office, in 1881, Hayes devoted himself to the cause of educating African-American children in the South.1876 is daring, beautiful, witty and insightful.
He claims the Republicans were offered the electoral votes in South Carolina for $80,000, Louisiana for $1,000,000 and Florida for $200,000.
In Grant’s view , Hayes has carried South Carolina (which may be true) and Florida (which is not true), but he agrees that Hayes has plainly lost Louisiana to Tilden.
“Everything,” CSS said soothingly to August Belmont, “ will be resolved by some sort of electoral commission.”Vidal’s opinions regarding the outcome of the 1876 presidential election of ‘Rutherfraud’ B Hayes don’t seem to agree with the majority of historians/biographers.I read the book primarily to see Vidal’s opinion of Grant, his administration and his view on the outcome of the election.
Most of the novel's episodic plot is Charlie Schuyler documenting at whose party he was present, whom he saw and with whom he spoke, who might be a potential suitor to his daughter - while all the while, the tensions of the last days of the Grant administration come to the forefront.
Schuyler eventually heads south to "Africa on the Potomac" where he observes the end of Grant's fraught administration but ultimately is powerless to stop the Corrupt Bargain and the election of Hayes.
With Charlie's passing at the end of this entry in the heptalogy, it will be a shame not to have his inimitable, irascible opinions on high society, but I look forward to continuing the series.
In a semi-sequel to "Burr," Vidal brings back his journalist Charles Schuyler to take a look at the most corrupt time of America's history.
It was also the first election in which a Democrat won more popular votes than the Republican candidate but somehow, mysteriously, did not get the Electoral College votes.
I'm not getting political here, but Gore does by going deep into the ways the Republican party manipulated the system, bought votes, and squeaked out a narrow one vote victory in an election that seemed to belong to the reform-minded Samuel Tilden.
Then Charles and Emma move to Washington for the '76 presidential election and we're in what I'd guess you'd call more typical Gore Vidal historical novel territory, which is always fascinating and apparently totally accurate.
The socializing of Charles with the rich society goes on a bit too long and I got a little tired of hearing about how one dinner at someone's estate was or wasn't amazing or not or who ended up getting introduced to whom or not.
I think Charles and Emma have one of the most interesting father and daughter relationships in fiction.
Told from the perspective of a newspaper journalist, the story covers the presidential campaign of the sure-to-win Democratic nominee and the his subsequent loss after the electoral college votes against him despite his winning the popular vote.
But this was 1876-an era where corruption and bribery in the electoral college was the way to ensure the presidential victory of Rutherford B.
Definitely an interesting read.
And this has the best description of summer vacation that I have ever read: "I have, most happily, mislaid July, lost every single day of it in a sea-brightness that fair dazzles me."
The third book in the Vidal's America cycle was bound to be a bit of a letdown after Lincoln.
1876 returns to Charlie Schuyler, fictional protagonist of Burr, now an old man with faded celebrity as a minor man of letters.
Charlie has been living in Europe since the end of Burr, and he now returns home with this daughter to a New York she has never seen and he no longer recognizes.
The plot is secondary to Vidal's observations of how society changes, and how the game of politics changes, from generation to generation as America inexorably rises on its path to world power.
Protagonist Charlie Schuyler, an aged diplomat returned to the United States, covers the 1876 presidential election as a reporter for various newspapers. The election in question, decided by a special committee charged with secretly awarding contested electoral college votes, showcases the ostentatious of America's political corruption. Though I really enjoyed the preceding novels (Burr, Lincoln) of this series, 1876 let me down. Gore Vidal's acerbic wit, which is peppered throughout the narriative, is the prime redeeming element of this otherwise hasty and clumsy tale.
