https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140078.Grave_Surprise
Tied up in the case, Harper and Tolliver are stuck in Memphis and are further entwined in the case when another body shows up in the same grave, someone they know.
I'm going to say this in the nicest way possible, while I like these books and they're a wonderful urban fantasy guilty pleasure, I think that Charlaine Harris isn't a very good writer.
At this point I'm not reading for the mystery, I'm reading for the character development and the use of Harper's abilities and how they affect her life.
That's the part I enjoy about these books.So remember everyone, 3 stars means I liked it!
I don't know why some readers are freaked out about the relationship between Harper and Tolliver, her "brother".
Maybe if they had grown up together since childhood, I could see their relationship as teetering to incestuous, but when you read their back story, you realize that they met as teenagers and only lived in the same house for a few years.
That's okay because there were plenty of other things going on to make it an interesting read.
I like Harper and Tolliver, and I do hope they get their crap together and stop living in denial soon.
Definitely need to read "Grave Sight" first; this one doesn't stand on its own. Story developed nicely ... until the end. Read as though the author had stopped short, put away the manuscript, and returned close to the contract deadline to tack on a thrown-together ending.
Once again, Harper had to talk about how Tolliver was all about having sex with waitresses.
I understand that yeah, girls gotta eat, but at least show some humility.One character went so far as to call Tolliver her "pimp" and I could almost agree.
I mean, what does he do besides make comments against any male who shows any interest in Harper, set up appointments and collect the money.
All we need is a scene where he tells Harper to get out there and make daddy more money and we are all set.I really love the basic idea of this book, as I said in my other review.
No matter, she does a good job.In this second book, Harper is hired by a college professor, Professor Nunley to read the dead people in the graves in an older cemetery on his college campus in Memphis.
Harper and her step-brother, Tolliver are very familiar with Tabitha.
I only see the death when I’m near the bones.”So this mystery - who put Tabitha's body in a grave in Memphis?
But in this book, Harper realizes after all these years that Tolliver is more than just a BFF to her...
Harper and Tolliver had been employed over a year ago to find the body of a little girl called Tabitha Morgenstern aged eleven.
Harper gets another surprise when she finds out that Tabitha's family are now living in Memphis and it is in fact the home town of the Morgenstern family.
The police are called in and Harper and Tolliver are bombarded with questions and even treated as suspects and frauds.This is a really good detective story, supernatural and ghost story all rolled into one.
Again, the heroine isn't very upbeat nor is the story line.
Same issues with folks accepting her for what she is/does.The biggest drawback was background of the heroine.
OK, she & her step-brother had a rough time as kids, but I had that drilled into me in the first book.
It was shoved in my face over & over again until I was skimming at times.There is one 'shocking revelation' on her part.
Maybe it's a female/moral thing.
I'm a guy & my morals tend toward practicality, so others could think this was OK.
Quick review:Cover: Interesting Rating:  R Thumbs Up:  4Overall: I enjoyed itCharacters: Well DonePlot: giving the finger to the doubtersPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: TolliverSUMMARY (50 words or less)The lightning strikes again.
I really like this series.
I like that this book seems to have a lot more going on than the mystery set in front of us.
This one kept me guessing longer than the last book.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...Audio ReviewAlyssa Bresnahan did a really good job with this series.
She really brought this series to life for me.
Charlaine Harris does it again. I really enjoyed this one. In the 2nd installment of this series Harper comes face to face with a case she couldn't solve. She has to try to figure it all out before she gets herself in trouble or killed. Looking forward to next book.
GRAVE SURPRISE (Paranormal Suspense-Memphis-Cont) – VGHarris, Charlaine – 2nd in seriesBerkeley Prime Crime, 2006- Hardcover*** Harper Collins and her stepbrother Tolliver have come to Memphis at the request of Professor Clyde Nunley.
When she comes the grave of a centuries-old man she not only identifies him, but a second corpse buried on top—the body of a girl Harper had been hired, but failed, to find previously.
Now that they’ve found the body, the question is who killed her?*** I’ll admit I like books involving the paranormal when it’s well done, and this is.
This review will be short and sweet, with just a few impressions so I don't spoil anything.First, just like in the first book, the villain was laughably obvious (actually even more so this time).
If she wanted to go toward Harper falling in love with her stepbrother, she shouldn't have had them calling each other "brother" and "sister" over the last two books.
The development of Harper's crush on her "brother" in this book was just...
And if we're going to deal with the stepsibling thing, I'm hoping they'll stop referring to each other as brother and sister when introducing themselves without specifying the "step" part.See?
This book, like a corn dog, is bad for you, but yet somehow you eat it anyway.
I've often said that Charlaine Harris's books are like the trash tv equivalent of the book world, and even though the characters are awful, disgusting people, I can't help but read this crap.
So many times in this book and the last, people make the mistake of thinking they're husband and wife, and then get really uncomfortable when Harper says they're siblings.
Ultimately, I'd say that the Harper Connelly books aren't my favorites by any means, but I'm curious about how everything ends.
There's the college professor who invites Harper to demonstrate her talents so he can debunk her, and then there's the mystery that arises when in the course of this demonstration Harper finds an extra body in a grave.
And when the extra body happens to be that of a girl Harper had been hired to find, and failed, several months back, the mystery deepens.
I also thought it was a nice touch to have the girl's family be re-implicated in her death.It was another interesting twist that Harper discovers her feelings for her stepbrother Tolliver aren't exactly sisterly.
Even so, it's played out well, and I thought it was a good complication to be explored in future books.
I liked the set up for Harper finding this mystery's dead body, with the snotty professor so arrogant and so sure she'd fail in her demonstration of her powers to his class.
I also liked that there was a bit less of the Unclean!
It was a bit on the needlessly repetitive side for such a short book (seriously, did anyone *not* get that Harper and Tolliver had a terrible childhood?), but it wasn't a big problem.
I think I was getting them, but really, it's probably all pride and self-deception!]
Harper's second adventure (at least our second adventure with her) was just as fun as the first.
Not too predictable, always interesting, and with great characters.
The only issue I had was that we didn't get as much action as the first.
Yeah, there were a few murders and twists, but I felt like a lot of time was spent at the hotel discussing who could possibly have done it, as opposed to the first where they were out there getting their hands dirty.
I still enjoyed it, and know that cases have to be different, and can't wait to read book three.
This is another series by Charlaine Harris. I have read two and will not read more. The heroine and a stepbrother (odd, odd boundary issues here that get in the way of the plot) travel from town to town using the heroine's ability to communicate with the dead to resolve death's and settle spirits. Good premise. Good read. Creep factor too much to bother with again.
Offbeat 2nd installment in the Harper Connelly series.
Harper is unique in several ways.
1) She's a lightning strike survivor.
As a result of that 2) she can sense dead people!
AND 3) she can tell what the body's cause of death was.
And even stranger yet: 4) she makes a living locating mostly missing persons' bodies...Harper with her stepbrother Tolliver travel the country locating dead bodies.
Usually they're called in as a last resort.
Her talents don't include finding living persons.
Some people believe, some are skeptics, and others are downright hostile.
Is it wrong to make money off her talent?
But Harper's new investigation into the crime yields yet another surprise: the next morning, a third body is found-in the very same grave…I'm really glad I've picked up this series, I'm liking Harper almost better than Sookie.
The whodunit is not overly obvious to me, I think there might have been one Sookie book I knew with relative certainty ahead of time, but overall she's pretty good at casting suspicion in enough different directions that you may have a hunch but nothing is a dead giveaway.The premise of Harper having received her "gift" via a lightning strike incident is very creative.
This series is popcorn for my brain, but that's not a bad thing: so is Georgette Heyer, in a different way.
But just in case anyone has a really bad squick and needs to check that it's not going that way, the spoiler is (view spoiler)[that Harper is in love with her step-brother and they do develop a relationship in the next book (hide spoiler)].
In an entirely different way to Georgette Heyer.This review really doesn't encapsulate how I feel about these books.
As her manager, her brother Tolliver travels the country with Harper keeping her appointments and assists her physically when needed.
Harper and Tolliver had a rather bad childhood which made them very close and dependent upon each other.
This becomes important in this installment and should prove to be rather interesting in future books.In this installment they are called to Memphis Tennessee to do a demonstration of Harper's abilities in a college graveyard where Harper finds the body of a girl she was searching for a year and a half ago.
Craziness ensues and Harper and Tolliver get sucked into a murder investigation but as witness or murderer?
I really like her writing style and how I never confuse Sookie for Harper and vice-versa.
The book finds Harper and her "brother"/best friends/traveling companion Tolliver in Memphis at a college to do a "reading" (for lack of a better word) at an old cemetery.
And then she find the body of a girl who she had been called in to "search for" in Nashville 18 months earlier and everyone freaks and things that Harper knows HOW the body got there.
Can Harper find out who is doing all the killing before she OR Tolliver are the next victims?Creepy and confusing.
Good read!
4 starsI seem to be in the minority, but I enjoyed this a bit more than Grave Sight Harper Connelly 1.
I love when an innocuous seeming character rubs their skills in people's faces so the opening scenes set me in a great place with Harper showing the disbelieving Clyde her corpse mojo.
Then there was the fact that references made in book one were followed through here with the discovery of Tabitha - continuity pleases me considerably.
The continuing evolution of Harper and Tolliver's relationship clarified the oddity of their sibling interactions in book one.
Another great book in the Harper Connelly series.
I think I liked this one a little more than the first.
Of course, the first book was great for setting up Harper and Tolliver's background and how they came to do what they do but this book took it further and you find out more information about their childhood and their family.
But even the murder mystery in the book was more exciting than in Grave Sight.
I have to say that despite some weirdness between Harper and Tolliver, I do really like them.
I like that.
I was excited to check out this series because I really enjoy the Sookie Stackhouse series.
While an interesting and entertaining listen, I found the plot to be predictable and the incestuous undertones a little disturbing.
Just because someone is not your relative by blood doesn't mean they can't still be considered your brother.
And he is described as being skinny, pock-marked, and with a ponytail!
Get real!
Anyway, when I first began this one, I did not know it was the second in the series.
She catches you up pretty quickly so I did not feel lost.
Boooriiiing!The plot is thin, the characters are cardboardey, the MC's are weird and not very likable - and ms Harris keeps mixing up her facts, which ruins books for me.
This book does that all-the-frickin'-time.I'm NOT gonna read the rest of these books.(view spoiler)[...and I get it.
Maybe if you didn't constantly CALL him your brother and make such a HUGE deal out of it, it would be weird, Harper?
And makes me over-use the word weird.
Which, in itself, is weird...
Which, in itself, is weird...
Which, in itself, is weird...
;) (hide spoiler)]
Der zweite Teil der Harper Connelly Reihe von Charlaine Harris hat mir genauso gut gefallen wie der Erste.
Obwohl der Täter für mich dieses Mal offensichtlicher zu erkennen war, fand ich den Fall spannender und die Charaktere entwickeln sich, im Vergleich zum Vorgänger, besser weiter.
Ich gebe es zu, ich verstehe Harper und Tolliver des öfter nicht, aber damit kann ich ganz gut leben.Für mich gute Unterhaltung die sicher nicht weltbewegend ist, aber manchmal brauche ich eben Geschichten, die mir einfach nur eine gute Zeit bereiten und das tut diese Reihe auf jeden Fall.
2nd re-read - this time by audiobook - Have the paperback too.This is the book where Harper realizes how she feels about Tolliver.
Some people things it's cringy that she's in love with her step-brother, but to me it's not a problem for the following reasons:1.
They are not blood relatives at all;2.
Their parents didn't marry until both were in their teens;3.
They took a really long time before they realized they loved each other more than just as family.
They really thought it out.
So to me, it's not a problem.
I really like this series and the narrator is doing a great job.
Harper has a unique ability to "know"/"see" things about the dead. And when she goes to do a demonstration for a group, she "sees" something completely unexpected.I like the originality of the series and Harper and her brother as characters.
My second read/listen - picked up in audible sale. Made a long car ride go quickly. I was surprised that I liked all in the series - 4 stars.
Really enjoyed this audiobook it had me guessing till the end.The narration was really good and added to the story.Recommended.
