https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267763.A_Tan_and_Sandy_Silence
Published in 1971, this dazzling detective thriller introduces Travis McGee pumping the bilge of the John Maynard Keyes, a cabin cruiser belonging to his neighbor Meyer (first or last name unrevealed throughout the series), a retired economist who shares in McGee's sardonic world view but is less a sailor, his boat taking on eight inches of water and at risk of sinking to the bottom of the Bahia Mar Marina where the men live.
McGee hasn't seen or heard from Mary in three years, but that fails to satisfy Broll, whose wife has gone missing for three months and he believes, shacked up with McGee.And the dumb little weapon came out from under his clothes somewhere, maybe from the waist area, wedged between the belt and the flab.
But the times have changed, and so have I, no doubt, and these novels no longer appeal to me nearly as much as they once did.The story at the core of the book is fine.
Fortunately, they all miss and McGee disarms Dolan, but the fact that the angry husband was even able to get close to McGee with a gun confirms McGee's suspicion that he has lost a step or two.McGee sends Dolan on his way, but is worried about Mary, whom he really liked.
Every time I pick up one of these Travis McGee novels I desperately want to love it as much as I did when I first read it, and I'm inevitably disappointed.
After she leaves the room, McGee tells the banker that he should show respect to the pretty female employees and only grab the asses of the ugly ones if he wants a happy bank.- McGee’s suspicions that something has happened to Mary are mainly based around his belief that she would have automatically run back to him since he did such a bang-up (Pun intended.) job of sexual healing on her the first time.- Every attractive woman in the book flirts with or tries to sleep with McGee.- Near the end, McGee seems to finally have some self-awareness of what a man whore he is and that his history of sexing up women with problems as a way of ‘helping them’ was probably a bad thing.
We're all trying to give such a good imitation of being an adult that the real adults in the world won't catch on." - John D.
MacDonald, A Tan and Sandy Silence John D.
MacDonald's pulp novels are a perfect beach read.
He perfectly fits Morrell's reluctant hero archetype:"a tarnished or ordinary man with several faults or a troubled past, and he is pulled reluctantly into the story, or into heroic acts.
His doubts, misgivings, and mistakes add a satisfying layer of tension to a story"MacDonald has perfected using the reluctant hero's questions, doubts, misgivings, and mistakes to add heft to his novels.
McGee isn't a dime-store hero.
It's actually a rather ugly and sordid story thanks to the middle part when McGee tracks down a suspect hiding out on the island nation of Grenada.
It's my third Travis McGee novel and it's definitely a product of it's time - late sixties/early seventies.
Perhaps MacDonald was feeling the sting of the changing times a little and this was his way of pushing back.Still didn't care for this aspect of the storyline.
He would have been in his late forties by the time he wrote this novel and sometimes it's hard to deal with dramatic changes as one gets older.
And how does he fail to see the link between McGee's pious refusal to marry a rich woman with a really nice sailboat, on the grounds that he couldn't accept even the appearance that he's trading (great) sex for a great sailing life, and the ship of women who sail naked for the titillation of their all-male clients, for whom they double as prostitutes?As with pretty much all uber-manly testimonials of that era, when MacDonald very nearly succeeds in killing off McGee poor Travis has to be rescued by---you guessed it---the naked women.
The 13th in the Travis McGee series is a solid entry into the canon, with yet another "salvage" case for problem-solver McGee(this one's not money) and a memorable sociopathic baddie Ian Fleming would have loved.
I don't think that's strictly true, but in the case of A TAN AND SANDY SILENCE the scene in question is stark, horrifyingly poetic (if it's possible for something to be that), and pretty unforgettable.
Travis McGee remains one of my favorite series of all time--great pleasure reading, and it's not hard to see why so many major crime writers love this series.
And he profoundly dislikes liars, real estate developers and moneyed people who appear to be doing nothing but spend.In A Tan And Sandy Silence, one of the meanest, most violent McGee novels, the hardboiled boat bum attempts to find a woman he once had a fling with.
he continues with his favorite past time, cynically commenting on development and the modern life, the human zoo.When the public beach ended I came to the great white wall of high rise condominiums which conceal the sea and partition the sky.
I found myself feeling a little disappointed in the direction the character took in this book. Initially it seemed good, a bit of personal reflection, questioning of self motivation and life direction then a little later in the novel Travis is repeatedly choking a woman to get information out of her. It sort of takes the evilness away from the character whose torturing and killing people too when the main good character is happy to choke people for information and threaten them.Just found this one not as enjoyable as most of the others, seemed like it was trying too hard.
Not the best entry in the McGee series imo... Less humor & more gritty than those I like better.
Ay ay ay, some serious nightmare fodder in this one.
McGee runs into a syndicate that is going public with their stock in an attempt to raise enough capital to launch a huge construction project.
When his wife disappears, he turns up at McGee’s boat, the Busted Flush, with a pistol and starts shooting.
McGee survives the shooting episode, but soon finds himself deep into the workings of a scam that involves several other people who want to get their hands on the $300,000.
It’s this guy who suddenly takes over all of the action and puts McGee and his friend Meyer in very deep water.
John MacDonald's Travis McGee is not a good man.
MacDonald put a different color in each title so the reader could remember if he had read the story before.
The stories are formulaic: McGee is lounging around his houseboat when a friend or a friend of a friend comes by needing help.
McGee gets into the mix.
McGee comes out ahead monetarily.
But the stories are told with verve and imagination, and occasional really thoughtful passages about life.
Another advantage is that the books are a quick read.
Most used book shops have a few.
So there is little expense for an afternoon's reading pleasure.
McGee is a big fan of Eydie Gorme, especially of her several Spanish-language albums with Trio Los Panchos, and he predicts that “maybe a generation from now” her recordings will be a collectors’ joy (p60).
Eydie died on Aug. 10, 2013, at the age of 84--sorry about that, Trav!--maybe the collectors will line up in another generation or two from now.
As I have come to expect, however, I love McGee a little more with each book:"The sun bleaches my hair and burns it and dries it out.
And the salt water makes it feel stiff and look like some kind of Dynel [I have no idea what that is....:].
That would mean brushing it and combing it a lot more than I do and somehow fastening it out of the way in a stiff breeze.
Life is so full of all those damned minor things you have to do anyway, it seems nonproductive to go looking for more.
So I go hoe the hair down when it attracts my attention.
It was a bit more grisly, perhaps, and the villain went beyond being merely unconscionable; he was a sociopath.
I've given MacDonald a pass on a lot of the politically incorrect stuff because of the era he was writing in, and the pulp nature of the material, etc., but I lost my tolerance for the story with this absurd and unnecessary plot point.
I realize the ship rescuing McGee after he used the riptide to escape the sociopath tied the plot up nicely, but ...
Did he need to be rescued by a ship full of naked women?
- and was curious to read about Grenada, an island I have not been to yet - but the story as a whole dragged quite a bit, and I nearly fell asleep many nights right in the middle of a chapter, something I almost never do.
And some of the language in the book was off-putting, but considering that the book was written nearly 40 years ago, I'm not surprised.
Still, there were parts of the book that were really wonderful, like the Hell's Belle, and the way Travis rescues himself from Paul Dissat towards the end of the book.
This is not one of my favorite Travis McGee novels, although it is competently constructed, and has some good moments. Any McGee will do if I’m bored, and there’s nothing else around to read. This puppy didn’t really grab me until about page 66; even then, I could pull free anytime I wanted. TAN is a serviceable Hunt-For-A-Girl story. Maybe I don’t much like TAN because Trav gets tied up and almost killed twice! @hg47
#13 in the Travis McGee series.Travis McGee is visited and shot at by Harry Broll, a real estate developer who insists his missing wife would have fled to McGee. Something doesn't ring true and Travis and friend Meyer look for the missing Mary and encounter a web of high finance deception and murder stretching from Lauderdale to Grenada.
Another excellent book in the Travis McGee series by John D MacDonald. McGee investigates an ex lover's disappearance. He doesn't find her but another woman is impersonating her in Grenada. He unveils her murder and a financial scheme.
✭✭✭✭
Damn. I had forgotten how good this stuff was.
This is a memorable one, for sure. McGee comes very close to dying here.

And that is how I picked up A Tan and Sandy Silence.I’m going to start with a warning.
A Tan and Sandy Silence was initially published in 1971 (my copy was printed in the 80s) and it is the 13th book in the Travis McGee series.
Will I probably read another Travis McGee story?
These are the type of stories I crave during Florida’s hot summer days, and you can definitely expect to find me enjoying a second hand Travis McGee story at the beach.
Along the way, he finds a wealthy assortment of beautiful, partially clad women who throw themselves at him, a French-Canadian psychopath (is there really such thing in Canada), near suicide via rip current, lots of dead people, and some serious soul searching about whether to become boy-toy to a wealthy young (and stunningly hot) widow.
Keep in mind, this was published in 71 when women went to Business School to become a secretary!
This author was recomended to me by a friend from my writing class.
The suspense of this book kept me going though I was not crazy about the character and how he treated some women.
I liked the fact that when his friend Mary was missing, Travis went looking for her.
Travis would be good to have on your side if you were in trouble.
The philosophy in parts of the book threw me off at first.
But it helped me learn more about the character.
My friend loaned me another book by him that I hope to read soon.
Travis McGee is a very cerebral approach to detecting. This was a harder read than most detective books since there was no easy fix to the situation. Many well developed characters. Description was remarkable setting the scene for the action that follows. A ladies man but also down to earth.
Amazing, graphic descriptions. His wordsmithing is amazing. The book is definitely not PC and you need to put your feminism aside. A rough and tumble old- school detective novel with amazing twists. Great read.
First time to read a John D MacDonald. Enjoyed the story and liked Travis McGee. Will look for another.
