https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557228.Five_Have_Plenty_of_Fun
However, if the girl can be kept safe for 3 weeks then the scientific project will be "launched" and then everything will be fine...It is not clear *how* "launching" the scientific project will suddenly remove the enemy's interest in the science behind it ...
reasons.Straining belief the American scientist then calls not only Uncle Q but also Aunt Fanny to go to wherever he is because he thinks there is something wrong with the equations.Our girl is now left in the charge of four children and the family cook...
Another less than inspiring book title from Enid.
If all I had to go on was the title, you couldn't pay me to read this book.
To hide the girl, whose name is Berta, she has been sent to England from her native USA to be looked after by our heroes.In order to better disguise her, our protagonists decide to cut Berta's hair short and dress her like a boy.
By my count, this now makes four female characters in this series who dress like and are mistaken for boys (if you're keeping track, the other three are George/Georgina, Jo/Josephine and Henry/Henrietta).
Zweite Verwechslungsentführung in kurzer Zeit, aber hier macht die Jagd mehr Spass. Jo ist auch mit von der Partie, was meistens ein gutes Zeichen ist. [22.08.2018]
When kidnap threats are made against the American scientist's daughter (Berta) he decides she is to with the Kirrins as he would hand over info to get back his daughter.So it is that Berta turns up in the middle of the night, sea sick from the boat rid, with her prancy poodle Sally.To hide her, Berta is disguised as a boy (called Lesley).
Berta is taken by Joanna the Cook to her sister's place.The remaining four and a girl called "Jo" (a recurrent character and ex-circus girl)to solve the mystery of George's kidnapping...If I read it now it would probably be silly, but when I read it i loved it...
Petualangan ke-14 Lima Sekawan!Di liburan kali ini Lima Sekawan kembali menghabiskan liburannya di Pondok Kirrin. Liburan mengasyikan mereka harus diganggu dengan kehadiran seorang anak perempuan yang harus dilindungi dari sergapan penculik!Buku Menyamarkan Teman salah satu buku Lima Sekawan yang belum pernah saya baca. Sayangnya, buku ini terasa datar bagi saya. Tidak ada petualangan yang mengasyikan dan mendebarkan yang ada hanya rutinitas yang agak membosankan. Bermain, makan, tidur. Bermain, makan, tidur.3 bintang untuk buku ini.Salam Limun Jahe!
Ohk, to be frank, thus is the only Famous Five book that I've read and I am in love with it.In this, Georgina's father is busy on some secret project with some other scientists, and daughter of one of them is threatened to be kidnapped, so she comes in hiding with the Famous Five. Her name is Berta.It has adventure, and sometimes George(Georgina) is kiddishly jealous of Berta, which I found quit funny, actually.

A cute adventure.. the 14th adventure for Julian, Dick, Anne, George, Timmy. Uncle Quentin is jolly funny and Aunt Fanny a maverick with angelic hands for bountiful lunch. So is Joanna. Additional characters are Berta, Jo, Sally.Berta / Lesley / Jane forced to cut her hair and dress like a boy. Add to that, stay with strangers far away from her home in Anerica. This horrid pretense with a bunch of British kids couldnt be wunnerful she must have thought upon her late night boat ride to Kirrin Cottage. She loves the rabbits infested Kirrin Island though.
I enjoyed this read. I like Berta and her dog, and found Timmy's puppy love to be funny.
How can he even think of giving away secrets for the sake of a silly girl?" Nice to see you have your priorities right, Quentin, and good of you to let your daughter know, so that she won't ever let herself be kidnapped.
One thing is clear: the high difficulty of getting to the island through the reef is forgotten, since a police boat gets there with no problem.With Berta disguised as a boy in Kirrin Cottage, her father has a fit because he detects some error in their calculations and Uncle Quentin has to rush away to visit him, with Aunt Fanny in tow, leaving the children alone with Joanna the cook to deal with any kidnappers.
Wow, these keep getting worse and worse.
So far, Blyton only has three plots, kidnappers (yep, got those here), smugglers (hmm, couldn't fit those in to this book), and circus folk (present and reporting for duty).
And here we have added an American girl, who just won't pronounce words properly (i.e. like the British), so we better mock her mercilessly.
What is up with Blyton's obsession about girls dressing up like boys (4th one so far in the series).
(I'm assuming she churned these out in an assembly line like Jackie Collins.)
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
My only complaint is that for me, reading these books has always been partly about lifting the veil on the past and peeking back into what life was like in days gone by.
Not only did pound coins not even exist back then, in the original story it would have been a pound note or much more likely a shilling!!!
Why not keep the story set in the past, and why not allow children to ask and to find out about ’old money’?
Perhaps my least favourite Famous Five book OF ALL TIME!
Not one boy-who-wants-to-be-a-girl, not two, but THREE here!
Berta, the AMERICAN, doesn't WANT to be a boy, but has to pretend to be one so she doesn't get kidnapped.
Jo is back here so George has double rivalry, and is obsessively jealous over Timmy, too!
Poor old Timmy!
In all the books he's painted as being this friendly yet fierce protector of the Five - in this, he's made out the opposite.
George even shouts at him for not catching a stranger at the window.
While I was cleaning in the closet about a year ago, I found these old books about the Famous Five.
My mom got them in her early teenage years and the collection is incomplete, so it would be fun to look up the rest of the books some day.
I read some of them when I found them, then I forgot about the rest, and yesterday I found them again - such terribly exciting and vital information for my review, eh?
Another solid Famous Five story. It is interesting to read how things were back when this was written. Julian and Dick forbidding Anne to come with them to the kidnappers house because of the possible danger would have been seen as gallantry or good manners, but when read now is more likely to be labelled as sexist. It is the same when dividing up the chores, Anne usually gets the washing up, while Julian and Dick are off trying to solve clues. In a nice twist the resolution to this tale is dependent on the help of a girl.
"An American girl, Berta, stays with the five.
Mysterious visitors to Kirrin island and a kidnapping combine to make this the adventure of a lifetime."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
This story was not as thrilling as some of the others, especially the last one, but I still enjoyed it. The biggest problem I have is with both parents going off when they knew there was a threat of kidnapping. Then to stay away a week! At the end, it was curious that the kidnappers wouldn’t have realized the kids and dog had gone and escaped. But then I’m being too picky, these books were and are for children!
This might be one of my favourite "Famous Fives" just for the additional characters of "Berta", an American girl who comes to stay with the Five, and has several name-changes so she isn't kidnapped, and Jo, the gypsy girl who's assisted the Five in two other adventures. Read this book many many years ago, and still feels fresh, reading it on my Kindle
This book is ‘wunnerful’ 😜 I love it ❤... the name is very misleading because you would assume it is about them having fun but it is the complete opposite. It has lots of adventure and that’s what you want in a book. I recommend it.👍
This book is ‘wunnerful’ 😜 I love it ❤️... the name is very misleading because you would assume it is about them having fun but it is the complete opposite. It has lots of adventure and that’s what you want in a book. I recommend it.👍
Gradually working my way through-another classic to brighten my day
My favorite childhood read.
I absolutely adored these stories as a kid. I'm so glad they continue to be reprinted for current generations to enjoy!
well I had plenty of fun too :D
Something slightly new!
Quite a fun adventure. I devoured these as a kid.
An action packed adventure with spies and a mysterious house1 May 2013 It felt that by the time I got to this one Blyton's books had become a little more action packed, and the the world of the Famous Five had become somewhat deeper. This one even brings Ragamuffin Jo back into the adventure, who plays an important role, as well as bringing a new person over from America to hide from potential kidnappers. We even have a much broader adventure where we have scenes on Kirrin Island, in a fair grou
An action packed adventure with spies and a mysterious house1 May 2013	It felt that by the time I got to this one Blyton's books had become a little more action packed, and the the world of the Famous Five had become somewhat deeper.
There will come a time when George will find it much more difficult to pretend to be a boy (especially during puberty) however there are suggestions here that despite her desire to be a boy, it is difficult to her to actually disguise herself as one.
I loved particularly how upset George was that Berta made a better boy than she did!
I was a little tomboyish myself, but I didn't really categorize activities as a boy or girl thing to go- If I wanted to play dinosaurs I did, and if I wanted to dress my sister's barbies and brush their hair I did that too, but my nickname growing up was George.Berta has come to stay with the five in what is a reoccurring theme in the books- kidnapping.
Once more, George is kidnapped, because the kidnappers have mistaken her for Berta!
Kid fiction is fun to read.ReviewThe plotThe plot is always that the five of the characters get into some trouble while seeking adventure.
They solve mysteries, save others from trouble, eat a lot of delicious food.
Does it sound like HP?
And HP has a great world built inside the books.
The charactersI like how the characters are built.
I can remember them for their character traits.
George: A slightly arrogant, but likable daughter, raised more like a son.
Anne: Geroge's cousin.
Almost opposite of George, behaves most sensibly.
Julian & Dick: Anne's brothers.
Timmy: George's dog.
VerdictFor kids, must read.
The famous five is a children novel.
The novel talks about scientific project that 3 people are working on it.
However, there are kidnapers who want to steal the information about the project so they choose to kidnap Elbur’s daughter because the Elbur is the most one know about the project.
They threat Elbure if he don’t give them the information about resources they will kidnap his daughter.
In the end of story, Elbure finds a solution, he goes to kidnapers and he promise to give them the information, so they open the door and find the police with arms.
