https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/951290.The_World_of_Null_A
Why?Much later, I discovered that van Vogt's unimpressive book had in fact been translated by Boris Vian, author of the immortal L'Ecume des Jours, and a friend of Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.
Since the original plot was in fact quite interesting (A.E. van Vogt always had ideas, he just couldn't write them down), the final result is a decent piece of work, and my 35 year old curiosity about how this could have been such a success was finally satisfied.Vian had a wicked sense of humour, and loved teasing people.
I have this fantasy of Vian giving his translation of van Vogt to some lion of the French literary world as a Christmas present, just to see how they would react.
4.0 stars. One of the better novels by A. E. Van Vogt and certainly one of his most famous. Big ideas, cool concepts and a fast paced plot. Above average science fiction from the Golden Age. Nominee: Retro Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction novel.
Every time I do, it feels like I'm reading it for the first time.
So weird, yet I really like it.
It is such a strange book; like reading a standard classic from a parallel universe.
"Is this what a great novel is like in your world?" In mine it's all wrong; sloppy disjointed, illogical, but if you put yourself in that other world (van's world), it is a master piece of scifi literature.It is inspired by the pseudoscience work "Science and Sanity: An Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and General Semantics" (1933) by Alfred Korzybski' of the theory of General Semantics.
When Hubbard's institute failed within a year, van Vogt and his wife formed their own institute and kept it going for the entire decade.Earlier, the big idea that captivated van Vogt was the Gerneral Semantics program of the Polish count Alfred Korzybski, a program defined in the count's 800 page self - published book Science and Sanity: An Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and General Semantics.(1933).
van Vogt earned Grand Master status from the Science Fiction Writers of America in 1996, but his reputation has always had significant detractors.
The science itself, such as what can be done with atomic power or plastics, gets stretched beyond all possibility.Still, A.E. van Vogt is famous for ideas, and he has one that powers this novel: What if a highly rational non-Aristotelian philosophy guided the behavior of the best men and women of their time?
In the process a lot of people die.This book is considered a classic, possibly one of van Vogt’s best, and it’s worth reading if only to watch ideas whiz past like scenery on a highway.
I had read that it influenced some of the great science fiction writers of the golden age, including Philip K Dick.
I attribute that to the authorship of van Vogt.
There is virtually no character development, and the motivations and loyalties of the characters is confusing.The World of Null-A.
Null-A means non-Aristotelian, but it's never clear what it is.
Null-A flowed through this novel, but it has virtually no impact on the story.
The novel could have been virtually the same if Null-A had never been mentioned.
I had read that van Vogt was into dianetics with L.
I thought maybe Null-A had something to do with that.
It's a novel that doesn't really manage to accomplish any of its serious, Change The World goals, but does some fascinating, forward-thinking things seemingly by complete accident.In terms of its failures, number one is probably the fact that this "let me tell you about how the world should be run" novel doesn't really manage to actually explain the philosophy of null-A (or non-Aristotleanism) in a meaningful way at any point.
It was never going to be the culture-changer it claims to be, but it has its fans - people who have done "memory is identity" stories better and more thoughtfully than he did, and expanded upon these ideas interestingly, themselves creating the kind of change in attitudes that the author of this novel couldn't.
All too frequently I found myself having to stop and re-read sections to figure out basic plot points (and this was generally because of a basic lack of clarity in key scenes, not because of a particularly advanced concept) and found it difficult to integrate the two major drives of the book, one toward political thriller regarding interplanetary and galactic war and one toward speculation about human and social evolution.
All their thousands of years of additional scientific development have been wasted in the effort to achieve size and power when all they needed was to learn to cooperate" (169).What's more, van Vogt provides a model for how this cooperation would work in the Venusian null-A society, which is described as an "ultimate democracy": "There is no president of Venus, no council, no ruling group.
Continuing this year in my exploration of classic SF I thought I would take a look at a famous novel by van Vogt.
There he became quite interested in the concepts of General Semantics or non-Aristotelian logic (Null-A).
I'm no logician but from what I understand Aristotelian logic assumes binary states for a statement (e.g. The dog is a collie).
Null-A logic assumes there are three or more values for every statement.
This can all get highly semantic and we are here to review a book so...van Vogt popularized these concepts in a series of Null-A books of which The World of Null-A was the first.
Names like Eldred Crang and Hari Seldon (this from Isaac Asimov's Foundation series), Intergalactic wars.
Take, for instance, this description of Venus:Gosseyn said, "Doctor, what is Venus like -- the cities, I mean?"The doctor rolled his head sideways to look at Gosseyn, but did not move his body."Oh, much like earth cities, but suited to the perpetually mild climate.
And UI mean heavy enough to look after all the luxuriant growth...."One of the side-effects of space exploration is the death of dreams of life on the Moon, on Mars, and on Venus.
As a teeneager, I loved A E Van Vogt, and I loved novels like The World of Null-A, Slan, The Empire of the Atom, and The War Against the Rull.
Книгата разгръща една космическа опера в която разликите между планетните общества се базират изцяло на етични различия, преминали в цялостни социални структури и правещи разбирателството между културите, макар да са човеци, в пъти по-невъзможно от това между хора и друга раса.Джилбърт Госейн разбира, че някой му е насадил фалшиво минало, но не знае с каква цел.
Госейн е единственият неизвестен фактор, който може да спре нашествието.Романът (а и продължението му) повдига десетки етично-философски въпроси, като започнем от човек, личност и възприемане на околния свят и стигнем до междудържавни, междупланетни и междугалактически отношения.Много силно препоръчвам произведението в частност и автора като цяло на всички любители на жанра.
To know that learning about himself was more important than anything else.
45-46)Picked this book up at the local library because PKD kept namedropping it throughout The Last Interview and Other Conversations.
So, I looked the author up on Wikipedia and was surprised but not surprised to learn that, yes, he had a hand in the early development of Dianetics.The "games" are too easily seen as the Dianetics auditing process and, well, there's other things.
Everybody thinks Scientology is a joke, anyways, when, really, it's got some good ideas once you get beyond the controversy, the celebrities.
This is not actually an endorsement or compliment.At some point of this rocket-powered sled ride I started wondering: would a background in (van Vogt's version of) General Semantics make this novel more comprehensible?
The characters, and indeed most of the story, doesn't seem to make conventional sense, and things sort of happen because they need to push Gosseyn into the events of the next chapter, and working backwards I found it difficult to rationalize each stage of the process ("Okay, why did they not kill him now that they have the chance?
Why are they allowing him to develop his powers?
It is entirely possible that the story is just moving too damn fast and I couldn't keep up.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 1/5World: 5/5This was my first A.E. van Vogt experience.
Dick was inspired by the mysterious, incoherent ideas of Null-A.
I can also see why Damon Knight named it "one of the worst allegedly adult science fiction stories ever published." The two are not mutually exclusive.
I was initially enchanted by what Null-A meant and the world crafted by Vogt.
I was thereafter continually frustrated and pained by the writing and development.
Null-A might be the most ambitious idea I've encountered in science fiction, and Vogt, perhaps, writes with the least clarity of any author I've read.
This book really seems to polarise peoples opinions of it.
I found it after seeing it discussed online as one of the most important 20th century scifi books.
This book and its author inspired some of the greatest scifi writers of the 2nd half of last century, notably Philip K.
Although the technology ideas in the book are now extremely dated, the overall story is fascinating and I found myself glued to it.
The writing style can be confusing and the author doesn't bother to explain every detail presented during the course of the story but I did find it extremely readable and enjoyable.
I had a hard time deciding between two stars and three stars for this novel.
In the end, I decided on two stars.
I found the definition of non-Aristotelian (Null-A) thought an ill-defined and incoherent concept.
He says: "In World, we have the Null-A (non-Aristotelian) man, who thinks gradational scale, not black and white—without, however, becoming a rebel or cynic, or a conspirator, in any current meaning of the term." I was hoping after reading the book I would understand what A.
The main character, Gosseyn, doesn't really drive the story so much as the story just happens to him.
While the book is a fun, almost comic pulp adventure, its reception rumpled some heady feathers.
Without revealing too much, I'll say that some of the most important writers of the time absolutely hated the book, while many writers just then coming of age may have been shaped by it.
I can't say whether everyone will enjoy it or not, it's a crap shoot, but I don't think any lover of science fiction antiquity and history can justly do without reading it.
I read this one for an SF reading group I'm in, and didn't particularly enjoy it and will probably not read van Vogt again.
Sure, it's a fun, crazy ride - but I don't take much away from it.
The writing is unremarkable.
I recommend this one for true SF nerds only.I've seen a lot of complaints about the incomprehensible plot: but in some ways I feel that's intensional (and maybe the one thing I enjoy about this book): life is immense and cannot be reduced to convenient, conventional human logic to be made sense of.
Sometimes life doesn't make sense.
A whirlwind of a read. I read this on the recommendation of a friend, and because of a superb short story by van Vogt called "The Weapons Shop." It illustrates very well the price an author pays for writing a true page-turner. The action never lets up in The World of Null-A, but Van Vogt's penchant for cliffhangers at the end of each chapter obstruct the achievement of a cohesive structure with which to effectively dramatize the very interesting ideas he's exploring.
This is the book that hooked me on Sci-Fi. I was enthralled and fascinated by the cover (Ace paperbacks), the characters, the plot and, most importantly, by the ideas of science fiction. I have been reading them ever since. Thanks Mr Van vogt.
1981 grade A-Series book NA1
I can tell how this guy was a big influence on Philip K. Dick, but the bizareness of his ideas is upstaged by the lack of his skill in storytelling.

Wonderful classic tale of interstellar intrigue and adventure, that unravels in layer after layer like a galactic onion.
The story can be a tough one to keep up with, with twists and turns and shifting alliances, some plot inconsistencies, plus all the 1940's era pseudo-science concepts and terminology.
But ultimately it's entertaining, quick paced and well worth the effort.
It shares many similar themes with Asimov's Foundation series, which, maybe not coincidentally, was first published a few years after this; most notably enemies, with opposing philosophical beliefs, hiding in plain sight.
However, unlike Foundation, the story focuses on one main protagonist and his exploits.
Our protagonist, Gosseyn ("Go sane"--yes, that is deliberate), discovers that he is not who he thinks he is, and that his memories have been altered; that he is somehow caught up in a plot to overthrow the Null-A (that is, anti-Aristotelean) philosophical principles that govern his world; that an intergalactic empire (folk from which appear in exactly one chapter, late in the book); that he has multiple bodies into which his consciousness transfers when one body dies; and that instantaneous travel between two points is made possible by the two brains (!) he has some how been given.
No está nada mal para ser una obra de los años treinta, de hecho apenas se nota que haya envejecido si no es por algún detalle suelto. Siempre me había mostrado reticente a leerla no sé bien por qué sentimiento irracional...
Having forgotten much of Slan, this very much reminded me of it. There's a lot left to be desired.. but also food for thought
The van Vogt novels that I remember enjoying in the past where the Weapon Shops novels which is surprising in retrospect since they are very libertarian and I tend towards a mild liberalism.
Unfortunately this only seems to be workable if people have a whole lot of training in Null-A thinking (which is actually van Vogt's version of Korzybski's General Semantics philosophy).
The result was that I felt that van Vogt was doing a poor job of describing this mode of thinking and it wasn't just my own denseness that kept me from absorbing much about Null-A thinking from just reading the novel.
He is instead concerned with exploring his crazy ideas and plot twists.In the opening chapter we discover that the protagonist, Gilbert Gosseyn, is not who he thinks he is as his memories are proven false.
But all this makes sense, as far as the author is concerned, because he is trying to make clear his point that our identity is our memories, whether true or false, whether everything else is changes or not."Null-A" stands for Non-Aristotelian and this book describes a world in which this new pholosophy and logic have superceded the Aristotelian philosophy and logic that dominates our thinking today.
