https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68772.Espedair_Street
And when Weird’s told us everything he needs to tell us, after he’s made us love him without pity, he goes off and finds happiness.
Yep, Iain Banks wrote a happy ending.
Aside -- (over the course of Espedair Street I couldn’t get this thought out of my head: Banks “Weird” tale is a Nick Horby novel without the smug cheek and slacker superiority.
They're supposedly just friends. But now they're lying naked on the beach together, looking up at the stars with no one else in sight, and he's trying to find a tactful way to explain how he feels about her. (This kind of thing seems to happen more frequently to rock stars than it does to me). Luckily, she's a practical girl with good night vision."Are you pointing at anything in particular?" she asks.
Every book I've read is just good, solid fiction writing, equal to Julian Barnes, Robertson Davies and many other top echelon writers.Espedair Street is a real street, but it barely figures in this tale of Wierd, the stage name for one Daniel Weir (in school he was Weir, D.
So, what was that about a future?The characters feel real - even though you know this is fiction, you could plausibly meet someone just like them.
The writing is crisp, not the bloated stories that often appear today because somehow bigger = better.Seriously, if you don't know Banks' non-scifi work, find one of his works of fiction and read it, now.
After learning about the untimely passing of Iain Banks a few years ago, I made it a task that I would finish reading his quite substantial body of work, both his contemporary novels (of which I had read several over the years, starting with the infamous Wasp Factory back in the very early 1990's) and his Science Fiction based ones, written under Iain M.
Espedair Street is no exception, but it is more of a straightforward (well...maybe not quite so) tale, lacking the twists compared to say, The Crow Road for example.It deals with a working class Glaswegian youth called Daniel Weir (nicknamed 'Weird'), who has high ambitions of becoming a rock star, which, through incredible luck succeeds in doing throughout the 1970s with a progressive rock band called 'Frozen Gold'.
It seemed a fairly simple tale of a rock star looking back [from the dizzy heights of his early thirties!] on his life so far with the way his band was formed and how he felt about it now.
Was he based on Mick Fleetwood [physically and past habits!], Fish from Marillion [as Banks once claimed] or another rock-star of the 1970/80s?It's difficult to say too much about what happened later as this would leave spoilers but suffice it to say that I was drawn into the world of Weird/Danny/Jim, especially all the characters from McCann and Wee Tommy in the present to Christine and Inez in the past.
Just brilliant. I love Iain Banks' books. I laughed. I thought. I cried. I walked in another's shoes. You can't ask for more.
Another great book from Banks.
I've read a few Biography/auto-biography type books about rock bands; including the Stones, The Beatles, Fleetwood Mac and David Bowie.
I want to quote a little piece from near the end of the book.
Was less thrilling than other Iain Banks I have read. Still enjoyed it and thought it was interesting. I am from the West of Scotland so it was fun hearing certain places mentioned. I really liked how it switched to during his rockstar years to after his rockstar years.
Confession: I’ve never read any of Iain Banks’ work, with or without the middle initial.
Draw me in it did, as I found every opportunity to read another few pages, another chapter, just one more revelation to help paint a more complete picture.The book’s meandering narrative timeline was used as a really effective tool without the handholding I usually associate with the device.
It isn’t always clear where the passage you’re reading fits into the big picture, and yet I never found it confusing so much as engaging and intriguing.
An intriguing story well told, one that is over all too quickly.
Originally published on my blog here in September 2003.Ever since I first read it, not long after it first came out, Espedair Street has been one of my favourite Iain Banks novels.
It is his first more or less mainstream novel, neither experimental nor genre fiction, and every time I read it it still manages to amuse and move me.Espedair Street is a novel which is pretending to be a rock star autobiography; the story of (fictional) seventies band Frozen Gold as told by bass player and song writer Danny Weir (known as Weird).
The only other Iain Banks book I'd read was 'A Song of Stone' (hardback) many years ago, too many years ago, meaning too few years of me, to really understand the nuances.I love the way he speaks of being, '...
In no place have I visited where the sentiments of 'the only thinking animal on the goddamn planet, and what do we spend most of our time trying not to do?' Banks used the whole page to castigate the button pushers, the 'it's OK because you told me it is' excuses that mean we torture and kill and do all the horrific activities imaginable.
Iain Banks is simply my favourite Scottish author.
From the first novel to the last I loved his books.
So I can’t envisage my country in books without an Iain Banks novel.
We have a word in Glasgow for something that’s wonderous in every way – we call it “gallus”.
However, being Glaswegians, we can add to that to make it EVEN MORE wonderous in every way – because in the way the rest of the world uses “very”, in Glasgow we use “f***in”!
Iain Banks and all his books, but especially Espedair Street, are f***in gallus!I chose Iain Banks Espedair Street as one of ten books that represent my country, Scotland.
We were both keen musicians in our day, and he was a bassist - as is the protagonist of this story.It's a first-person recollection by the bassist in a successful supergroup.
Although the band is modelled on something like Fleetwood Mac, Dan Weir takes after Fish from Marillion.It's a cracking read, and much more mainstream than just about any Banks' work - this in spite of the fact that it's about such an odd life.
It's not a heartbreaking story, but you'll just love the yarns, and they are all believable.
Banksy has a wicked way with writing character deaths and there's a couple in here you wouldn't believe would be possible, but everything is set up just so, making them as real as any others.A rock "legend" in hiding the lead character is the typical every-man who, some would say, got lucky.
The golden triptych of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll are all here in the form of early love, whipped cream canister gas and learning to play bass instead of guitar because your fingers are too big.
If you've ever enjoyed reading a Q magazine from cover to cover, you'll love this book.
There is nothing I can fault about Banks' prose. The characters and voices that he creates are always so amazing and interesting, and it's something I'd love to replicate in my own writing.This is about an old rockstar who's going through a midlife crisis, and we follow him as he reminisces on his life in the band and on tour. It's awesome and funny, and at times thought provoking.I didn't love this as much as The Wasp Factory because the story wasn't as insane, but Banks is someone I really want to read more of.
No, sorry, I just didn't buy it. I think setting up his narrator as a former big name in the world of late sixties/early seventies rock, operating in the same arena as Zepp and Hendrix, was a bad move. We can read biographies/autobiographies of actual rock mega stars and their debauched shenanigans so a fictional narrative is never going to cut it for me. I rather read a story about the ones that didn't make it big. That would be much more believable.
This was a strange book to read. It's 50% about a reclusive rock star and 50% about being a rock star and you don't get enough of either. The book really should have told one story or the other. You don't get enough of a sense of any character other than the main character because there is not enough of them in it. Lots of good ideas but failed to deliver on them. Still love the way Iain Banks writies
I'm so glad that when I asked for recommendations on a good "first" Iain Banks novel to read, I had forgotten that I had read (and didn't enjoy) Wasp Factory. If I had remembered, I would have missed out on this wonderful book. From the start I absolutely loved the voice. The story was funny and sad and I truly cared about Weird's story.
I enjoyed this life affirming honest fictional biopic of a disappointed rock star and his search for meaning but not one of my favourites by Iain Banks.
When Dan Weir, the main character, appears before us in his unkempt, unwashed, awkward, clumsy, misshapen manner, the last thing I was expecting was the story of a 70's rock star coming to terms with the end of a stellar career.
In fact, the first half of the book feels like a fictional version of a rock stars memoirs.
Banks carries the mood off perfectly though, as the second half kicks into gear, while developing a character that has flaws, but also one who cares for those around him while also recognising his own shortcomings.
Iain Banks must be one of the most diverse, imaginative authors I've read.
The story is an enjoyable ride, from excessive parties and friends flying private aeroplanes in a ludicrous race between factory chimneys, to his relationships and failures with women.
Iain Banks has created a very believable character who draws you in, makes you care and the pages of his story just fly by.
Having just looked at Iain Banks's bibliography I noticed how relatively early in his career this particular novel was written.
It's good - it's good fiction with his usual very high quality dialogue, excellent immersion into Scottish culture - but it also has a certain melodrama that slips off elsewhere in his better books.This is still good - maybe I'm just a harsher critic of Iain Banks's books for having read so many of them.
As an isolated point this is a decent read but in context it feels like he was still feeling his way for story arcs.
I thought I might struggle with this, as the first chapter seems like a mass of waffle, however, it changes in the second chapter and comes together to form into a wonderful journey following the teens and twenties of a talented, but highly insecure songwriter. Warmly written, with many sad and many, dare I say, funny bits. It has been compared to a Tony Parsons or Nick Hornby, which, while I can see comparisons does it a disservice.
I have read a lot of books by Iain Banks and generally enjoy them very much, apart from the small passages of ‘weird stuff’. Fans will know what I mean. Some will love it. Some, like me, will continue to appreciate the high quality of his work in spite of it.In this book, Banks takes his character, Daniel Weir, on a fascinating journey in life, from messed-up teens to rock star and crashing failure. He does so with atmosphere and humour.
I'm really fond of Iain Banks' work, both the sci fi and the non-sci fi, both of which tend a bit to the absurd. This book explains how a once-successful -- but not at all down-on-his-luck -- rock star decided to commit suicide in the sea on the west side of Iona (I know that beach!) and then changed his mind. You may never meet a more entertaining bunch of hard-drinking, hard-playing Scots, much of the action taking place in Glasgow.
of all the ones i'd not read before, this was the Iain Banks i was most uncertain about. and it was....ok? wonderful writing as usual, and his representation of the music industry seems impressively well observed. but the tales of rock-star debauchery get wearing very quickly, and the ending (while rather poignant) was a bit too...obvious.
Another satisfying Banks. Another quite different protagonist, written very well, and relatably (to some extent at least). Fun subject matter - feels a bit like it's a form of Banks' wish fulfilment of his day dreams to be a famous rock star with a silly amount of money, but it's him, so he's a plucky Scottish guy who doesn't really want it and hasn't let it change him. Good fun throughout
This was my first foray into Iain Banks after meaning to read him for a long time. It was an enjoyable book, took me a while to get through as I kept putting it down and picking it up again but this was more my state of mind than the writing.
Interesting Fictional biography of the main writer performer of a rock band. Illustrating the start, life and end of the band - the crazy activities in those times and post band flat-line, ordinary life looks grey. Then the low point...
Much better than I expected. Loved the character “Weird”, related to him in many ways, bassist, songwriter, and I work in the entertainment industry. Was half expecting.....well I’m not going to spoil anything.
