https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/740283.The_Dancing_Floor
All pretty wildly improbable, but okay as a holiday read.
This is the 3rd book in the Sir Edward Leithen series by John Buchan and the one I liked the least so far. I liked the setting but there was too much 'touch of the mystical' for me about both Vernon & the plot in general.
Thrilling stuff, but just as fascinating is the case of Vernon Milburne, an intelligent, decent but somewhat austere and cold young man who has been haunted all his life by a dream.
Buchan had clearly read Frazer at some point, and possibly some Freud and Jung, and while you don't have to agree with any of their theories to enjoy this novel, it makes for a great bedrock of ideas on which to build a story.
Incidentally, the first time I read John Buchan's The Dancing Floor, in 2010, was also during a Christmas break.
An attempt at re-experiencing those feelings and thoughts drew me back to this book.Though I read this book with different - older - eyes than I did the first time around, my hope of comfort was not disappointed.
Moreover, I appreciate its articulation by Sir Edward Leithen, whose general sobriety makes its romanticism stand out all the sharper without veering into melodrama.I think perhaps that's why, even after 6 years, I can still say I love this book so much.
This was another quite exciting John Buchan story. However, the reason for 4 rather than 5 stars is that, as the climax was coming, the author lapsed into a whole lot of descriptive writing instead of just getting on with the story and I must confess, I skipped a lot of it.
Although somewhat flawed, I found this very enjoyable. I shall go back to some of Buchan's short stories over the summer.
Enjoyable.
Not one of Buchan's best
Three quotes:{Buchan accepting post-war women!}I remembered a phrase which Vernon had once used about "the mailed virgin." It fitted this girl, and I began to realize the meaning of virginity.
Was the blushing, sheltered maid of our grandmother's day no more than an untempted Aphrodite?{Buchan on the first world war}There has been a good deal of nonsense talked about the horror of war memories and the passionate desire to bury them.
I tore a page from my notebook and was about to write, when he snatched it and the pencil from my hand.
This re-read was long overdue, and just as with the Austen books I've been re-reading lately, The Dancing Floor seemed almost a different book, with so much more to enjoy and digest in it than I remember.The story, narrated by Sir Edward Leithen, a respected barrister, follows his friendships with two very different people and the peculiar, terrifying scenes they end up dragging him into.
Vernon Milburne is still in his teens when Leithen meets him and is immediately struck by his unusual quality.
I picked this up in a dusty little second hand bookshop at some point expecting it to be a nice light historical romance.
It was a delightful surprise to find something really interesting and quite dark (not that I don't love historical romance).
There is a door at each end of his room and beyond that door stretching in both directions is another bedroom exactly like the one he is in.
Each year he has this same dream but each year the Thing gets one room closer.
He knows exactly how old he'll be when it gets to him.

Vernon Milbourne, orphaned since childhood and haunted by a recurring dream, is friends with the protective lawyer and MP Sir Edward Leithen.  An Aegean cruise takes them to the mysterious island of Plakos, where Vernon is fascinated by the island's myths.  Local superstitions turn to menace as Vernon's encounter with a beautiful woman results in obsession and adventure.
A bit of a disjointed read, with the middle section sagging heavily. But as ever with Buchan an interesting portrait of the era - before and after WWI - and class. This one also gets into the whole issue of the clash between Christianity and pre-Christian, pagan beliefs, and how they're conflated with matters of "evil", "witchcraft", "devils" etc. Hence the intro by Wicker Man director Robin Hardy, which provides a solid discussion and context.
As always, really enjoyed this novel. Despite Buchan's stereotyping at times, such a powerful story of Christianity vs. paganism.
Weird story plot but nice writing style.
Eerie and quite beautiful at moments, this is one of Buchan's best books.
One of Buchan's best! This book is mystic in nature combined with action and a great plot. This would make a superb movie.
A good yarn well spun, reflecting on the relationship between Christianity and its pagan forebears. Set in the Greek islands which is a pleasure in itself.
What superstition can do to people! Quite an adventure. I enjoyed this book.
