https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/591965.The_Madwoman_of_Chaillot
It only gets greater with time! 'GREED' in 1948 and [would you believe] even mnore greed in 2012. In 62 years this li'l ole orb refuses to learn; adamantly refuses to learn.Oddly enough,although there have been numerous other editions, solely and in anthologies of this masterpiece, none are listed on this data page
It's a little hard to see how this show would hold up before the cynicism of modern audiences, who might also balk at the somewhat ruthless way the madwoman and her cohorts condemn almost a dozen people to death, but much of its subject matter still feels surprisingly relevant, and there's no doubt that the Madwoman and the Ragpicker are excellent roles, even if everyone else feels a little bit there to fill the pages.
A thought provoking comedy with more than just a little edge and some real veins of darkness, it's a period piece to be sure, epitomizing its era, and maybe even locked in it, but far from a relic, yet.
Although Giraudoux deals with themes typical of Theatre of the Absurd, he does so using conventional theatrical forms and so his plays fall a bit flat.  The Madwoman of Chaillot  has moments of humor and of poignancy but overall is too facetious to be really effective.
Here, the sane without values represent Nazis, disguised by Giraudoux as corporate executives with a plan to exploit the resources of Paris without giving anything back.
In a way, this makes the story more timely than if Giraudoux had Nazi officers on stage.
The resolution, however, is troubling in two ways.
At least here, in America, the corporations win, the mad do not, and the way that the mad defeat the executives in this story is ethically problematic.
It would not be a problem were these actual Nazis, not corporate allegories.
In this way, the play has not dated very well.
One of my favourite plays of all time.
Great play. Surprisingly funny.
I saw this once and it sealed the deal that I would act. The part of the Madwoman is awesome.
Oil has been discovered under Paris and evil men are set to extract it at all costs. A madwoman is the only one who stop the tyranny of evil men. Very relevant to our times.
Μας χρειάζεται επειγόντως μια τρελή του Σαγιό. Υπέροχο έργο. Τόσο επίκαιρο. Kι ας γράφτηκε στα 1943.
So the edition I have is translated by Laurence Senelick and give the author as Jean Giraudoux. The copy I have picked is the stage play from the Theatre de Athenee in Pairs where the play was first produced in December 1945. It is as relevant today, if not more so then it was then. One of the plays I saw in Stratford this year. Was a great production and did not waver far from the play structure I read. Something worth reading just for the relevance.
Fun play about a crazy woman and her friends.
Ecrite sous l'occupation allemande, elle raconte l'histoire de la decouvete d'un puits de petrole dans le 16 arrondissement de Paris.
Elle trouve un strategeme rocambolesque pour empecher des capitalistes sans scrupule a mettre leurs mains sur l'or noir de chaillot.Cette piece est completement loufoque.
Je ai vu une representation au Quebec lors de la premiere grande prise de petrole ou elle semblait meme posseder une certaine actualite.
Pour cette raison, la Folle de Chaillot marche bien sur la scene.
Il ne vaut pas la peine de la lire mais quand meme on ecrit des pieces de theatre pour la scene et non pour le Kindle.
I am gonna be in this show soon and i just finished reading and memorizing lines for this play.Its called the Madwoman of Chaillot and its mad crazy!.I really cant even explain the real plot of this play because its crazy complex but its a great whimsical piece of work that can be really peculiar but very funny at times. You can read it over and over again and still not really understand it and there's something new everytime you listen to it.
The Madwoman of Challiot is a satire pitting community vs. corporations. There's one key equalizing factor: all characters, regardless of class, get their fair share of great lines. This is the sort of play that I would expect to see Zuccotti Park. I look forward to seeing it instead in one of the lovely indoor theaters at The School For Creative and Performing Arts. Pigeons will fly.
Read this as a part of a college english class and actually saw it performed. I liked the play better when I read it than when I saw it, which seems odd even today, maybe I had a different vision of the action than what I saw. I liked Giraudoux' symbolism, though my direction would have been different.
J'adooooore !
bonus points for getting to be IN the play (circa 2003)
Read this first at boarding school in 1984 -- along with Death of a Salesman and Hello Out There -- and loved it ever since.
needs some updating and some cutting
I had a bit part in a college production of this play: Second Prospector. Someday I hope to come across another copy of the script so I can figure out whether I understand it any better now!
