https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/193659.Lost_Moon
It all takes me back to the days when I was glued to the television set, watching as much as I could of the space flights in the 60's and 70's.This book tells the story of one of the scariest of all journeys, Apollo 13.
And we spend days with the team at Mission Control, which was at one time in my life one of the places I most wanted to see in real life, not just on the small screen.There was something poignant about reading how bored the nation had become with the space program by the time Apollo 13 was ready for liftoff.
This dialog (taken from the official Apollo 13 technical Air-to-Ground Voice Transcription and reproduced here without permission) between the Mission Control Center and the men aboard Apollo 13 is basically the reason, why this book has been written.The story of NASA's "successful failure" is a very engaging read, even if you already know the Hollywood movie. There's a lot more information given in this book, the "techno babble" is explained and intelligible to all, and the movie's inaccuracie
This dialog (taken from the official Apollo 13 technical Air-to-Ground Voice Transcription and reproduced here without permission) between the Mission Control Center and the men aboard Apollo 13 is basically the reason, why this book has been written.The story of NASA's "successful failure" is a very engaging read, even if you already know the Hollywood movie.
I used this as a soundtrack while reading (although it didn't take me 50 hours).I recommend this book to anyone even slightly interested in the exploration of space.As I hurtled through space, one thought kept crossing my mind - every part of this rocket was supplied by the lowest bidder.
This failed mission literally left three crew members in mortal danger, and was fraught with problems.
I don't even remember how many issues and unexpected glitches the crew members and NASA Mission controllers were confronted with, literally down to the wire.
But from the very next moment of the catastrophic explosion that destroyed the two oxygen tanks to the splashdown, the flight controllers put their heads together and worked with every single problem that needed to be solved in order to safely bring the crews back down to Earth.
this is such a gripping, thrilling, engrossing story of the miraculous survival of Apollo 13.The closing left me with a bittersweet feeling.
Co-authored by Jim Lovell, commander of Apollo 13, the book gives authenticity, weight, and just a down right "first hand" feel to the tale.
After the prime of the moon-landing days which NASA was emerging from, Apollo 13 seemed to be a "routine" mission into outer space (as if there could be such a thing.) However, a mechanical failure and explosion caused this routine mission to become National headlines and a test of what the people of NASA were made of-- astronauts, engineers, and commanders alike.
I don't know if its age makes it hard to find, but it almost guarantees that it may not be familiar to a lot of readers.This book is a telling of the Apollo 13 saga, as seen by the commander of the mission, Jim Lovell.
If you saw the movie "Apollo 13," you will recognize a lot of details, right down to exact quotes.
Even though we know the happy ending, the book is a fascinating read and an inside view of a critical event in America's space program.
You don't have to be a science, space, or history nut to be drawn into the story.
It did make the book seem colder and less personable, creating distance between the reader and the story.One thing I didn’t like was the chronological jumping around in Lovell's and NASA's timeline.
I got used to it though, jumping from before Lovell was in the space program to his other space missions to Apollo 13.
If the reader is in the midst of worrying about this three man crew and then they're given a chance to relax by switching to an earlier point in history, it diminishes the excitement the story creates.
If you are interested in the history of space travel and don't mind a few technical details read this book!
After they had reported the explosion, the control center tried their best to help diminish the problem until they could find a solution.My favorite character in “Lost Moon” was Marilyn Lovell because she was supporting of her husband's journeys to space.
A certain scene that was written particularly well was the prologue because it started at the time of the explosion on Apollo 13, so it had me wanting to read more to find out how it ended.
I would recommend this book to people who are interested in science or space because the book is centered around the life of Jim Lovell, an astronaut, leading up to, during, and after the Apollo 13 mission.
The technical challenges and the efforts to overcome them are thoroughly described.I was amused to learn that Armstrong and Aldrin really did volunteer to distract Lovell’s elderly, somewhat confused mother during the television coverage of Apollo 13’s return to Earth.The book has several black-and-white photos, mostly of people.
This book, as the title shows, is about the NASA mission Apollo 13, which, on the way to the moon, had an oxygen tank explosion and the crew was unable to land on the moon.
One of the things that I think makes this book really cool, along with allows it to be so in-depth facts wise, is the fact the it was written by the commander of the mission, with the help of someone who I think was part of mission control during the mission.
Mission control is basically just the guys on Earth who monitor the condition of the crew and ship.
But in a good way.
Even though we all know the story of Apollo 13, and we all know how it ends, the pacing in the book is so good that the harrowing moments are, well, harrowing.
There's a fair amount of technical jargon, but it's defined in a way that if you care enough to understand it, you'll understand it.
I recently read Michael Collins's Carrying the Fire, so I automatically compared the two books, even though that's probably unfair.
I'd consider Collins a more poetic and thoughtful writer, and I probably like his book better.
But Lovell definitely has the more exciting story on his side.
In my opinion, the book was more technical than the lay man could understand in some parts, particularly in discussing what went wrong (or what they think went wrong).
At the same time, I didn't really feel the emotion of the individuals during the plight from this book.
I KNEW they must have been crapping their pants, because that's what I would have been doing, but the book somehow is very detached to the emotions of the people, something that I don't know whether to applaud or not, to be honest.
Great story that takes readers back to 1970, a different time in our world and reminds us of what we in America were striving to do. The mission goes terribly wrong and a nation waited and watched as te crew fights for survival using some innovative methods to conquer the challenge.
Proud to have this on my bookshelves. Great approach to the history and the people behind the real-life adventure.
Great read!+++++++++My book blog, complete with video of Tom Hanks informing Houston there is a problem -----> allthebookblognamesaretaken.blogspot.comFirst and most importantly, I have always been a little obsessed with the story of Apollo 13.
However, Apollo 13 has long been one of my favorite movies from childhood and I was terribly afraid that if I were to read Jim Lovell's account of what actually happened, I'd be sorely disappointed to find out Tom Hanks lied to me and the story didn't go as depicted.
The story itself is well-known : an explosion rocked Apollo 13, the intended moon landing was aborted, the astronauts found shelter in the cramped lunar module for the rest of the flight, and much creative engineering was needed to help the damaged craft limp home.
I learned a lot about how all of this worked, how one group of people would figure out what needed to be done, a second group how that could be done, and then a third group would simulate the proposed solution in the various simulators in Houston.
3. relevant backstory, not too muchI read the book to find out what happened to Apollo 13, not the whole story of NASA and the space program.
Using the intelligence of the nasa engineers and the cleverness of the astronauts they have a chance to survive this experience.As i went through the story the character i enjoyed the most was gene kranz.
You're given an idea of how the family of these men felt during this situation.Going through the book a common theme was there was no sense of suspense in a story about surviving in space.
I enjoyed the idea of this space novel but the more i went through the book the more i wanted to finish it and be done with it.
Possible Spoilers Below!Lost Moon, now titled Apollo 13 by Jim Lovell is an excellent book if you have any interest in spaceflight, lunar exploration, NASA, or the Apollo missions.
This allowed me to compare what happened in those voyages to Apollo 13.When I started reading the book, I expected the book to follow the Apollo 13 mission in detail; and, indeed, I found the coverage of the voyage I desired.
Throughout the book, I felt that the author used imagery so well that I always knew what was at stake after that shocking explosion ripped through Apollo 13.I found Apollo 13 to be a suspenseful and gripping book throughout the entire read.
The book highlights things missed in the movie: the vast amount of flight experience Lovell already had (having flown twice around the moon), the personal connection Lovell had with ill-fated Apollo 1 tragedy, the social protocol NASA astronauts had (including that of Lovell’s wife, who had to keep one wife “busy” while NASA prepared to deliver the news of her husband’s death), the nitty-gritty detail of the necessary burn operations they had to take, how the “venting” of oxygen surrounded the ship during most of the return home (and interfered with visibility).
The book certainly captures the exciting and heroic efforts of the astronauts and crew; strangely, the whole story is told in first person, which papers over the fact that (inside the spaceship at least), the perspective is entirely Lovell’s.
I did like learning about what happen with Apollo 1 and his Apollo 8 flight where they orbited the moon for the first time.
And I was very impressed at how much the movie Apollo 13 stuck with the actual events.
Some of the dialog in the movie came straight from mission logs.
I know they can't fit in everything and need to change things around but they did a good job of it.
It just seemed like he would take an entire paragraph to say what could fit into a sentence or 2.
I mainly skipped chapters with back stories read the ones that had to do with actual missions.
However, I didn’t really like this book.
There was a lot of weird techno dialogue and hokey descriptors with the author writing about himself in the third person.
It’s weird.
Like this example where Lovell is describing one of his conversations with Huston.“Jim,” Lousma called, “how’s that comm now?”“Well,” Lovell grumbled, recognizing the change in voice and softening his own in response to it, “There’s still a lot of background noise.”“O.K., we’ll look at it some more,” Kerwin promised, “but your comm down to us is excellent now.”“Roger that,” Lovell said flatly and closed his eyes again.Again, the story is great but I didn’t like the telling of it.
This memoir was as good as they get.
I saw the movie "Apollo 13" which was made from this memoir by astronaut Jim Lovell.
The book is a fast paced account of how the Apollo astronauts got back to earth after surviving a massive explosion of an oxygen tank on their trip to the moon.
If you lived through the television coverage of this event in the early 1970'2 it is a pleasant reminder of the best of America.
If you were to young or not yet born, it will provide you with one of the brighter and braver events in US history.

Ten stars if I could.
Can restore your faith in humanity and teamwork.
Even though the outcome is known, the story as told here is incredible and suspenseful.
The addition of memoir dialog and deep backstory prior to 13 is never unnecessary for the lead up.
The writing also turns what could read as a drier and hard to understand flight record into a personable account.
The combination puts into perspective the massive undertaking spaceflight was in that era.
Reading about Apollo 8 completely inspires me.
The teamwork and ingenuity to save Apollo 13 is amazing.
All Time FavoritesNon-fiction FavoritesI've always enjoyed the movie Apollo 13, so I decided that I would give the book a try.
I loved all of the technical detail and explanations for how the spaceship worked and the science behind it all.
Reading about what the men at mission control did to get the astronauts home, and reading about the three astronauts working together and taking care of one another in one scary situation was a joy to read.
If you like space adventures, like reading about science, like reading about heroic people in history, or even if you have seen the movie this is a book not to be missed.
I have always been in awe of the space program and what NASA has accomplished. This book really delves into the Apollo 13 mission in such detail, it almost reads like a thriller. The astronauts handled the unbelievable "problem" on the spacecraft so courageously and with such level heads. The entire army of engineers and personnel back at mission control in Houston were just geniuses and worked so tirelessly to figure out how to get these men home. I can't imagine how electrifying it must have been in mission control when Apollo 13 finally splashed down.
This literary depiction of the events of Apollo 13 succeed in communicating the technical aspects of the missions failure in an easy to understand way. The author presents the events in a way that breaks down the decision making process of everyone involved, creating a kind of connection with the characters that is difficult to achieve with fictional people. The authors vivid language, combined with the other discussed aspects of the book, plant us firmly inside the command module with the astronauts stranded in space.
Wow. The sheer awesomeness of this book has rendered me speechless. Forget boy bands and pop stars, troubled movie stars, and overpaid athletes. Men like Jim Lovell, Jack Swigert, Fred Haise, and the scientists and engineers at Mission Control are the ones who kids (and adults!) should admire and aspire to become. Just wow.
This book was well written and very engaging (at least for me!). I love how they gave a lot of history and back story to the whole Apollo program. There was a lot of technical information given, which may not be for everyone, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Very technical, slow reading. For once, I think the movie was better than the book!!
For as long as I can remember, Apollo 13 has been my favorite movie of all time.
I have no earthly idea why it took me so long to read Jim Lovell and Jeffrey Kluger’s book but I am so thankful that I did.
But more importantly, the people of Mission Control and of the Space Center and of everyone who piled in to help across the country...
Really the end note I want to leave this is with the last line of the movie that has inspired my lifelong fascination of space exploration: “I look up at the moon and wonder, when will we be going back, and who will that be?”
