https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351018.Which_Witch_
This was one of my absolute favorites when I was little...dark wizard holding a tournament for potential brides? Hell yes. I reread this recently thinking it couldn't possibly be as great as I remembered, but it was!!! Highly recommend to all baby goths (or grown goths who want their black hearts to spin up in a haze of slightly-grotesque mist and sprout happy bat wings).
This was just a ton of fun. Ibbotson is like a tamer Roald Dahl, with a twist of Monty Python. The part about the rats, though? That was pure Stephen King. *shudder*
Paperjasto veselo štivo podesno da se čita kao razbibriga ako, recimo, treba da idete kod zubara ili već nešto na tom nivou prijatnosti. Super bi funkcionisalo kao crtani ili, još bolje, kao češki dečji film - kolekcija veštica je dušu dala za to :) Jedino bih zamerila to što je glavni đuvegija težak šmokljan, ali dobro, ta karakterizacija i jeste deo poente.
I was pleasantly surprised by this quick read.
My daughter told me I HAD to read it, after she had read and enjoyed it herself.
So I took it along on a long train trip, and read it in one sitting.
While Ibbotson will never win any awards for character development, she does have a way with both words and plot; her turns of phrase continually gave me pleasure, and her silly plot made me laugh out loud several times, drawing bemused looks from my fellow train passengers.
A good book for younger middle grade readers who like their fantasy with a strong dose of humor.
Da morir dal ridere!Romanzo intelligente, divertente, ma anche assolutamente creepy (la scena dei topi.. No commenti!!)La mia infanzia è stata bella anche grazie a Eva Ibbotson!
However, I had to make an exception for Which Witch?.
That's why I broke my habits and read this book again.
There is little world building, which is what attracted me towards this delightful and slim and lean book.
It's rare to find a quick and memorable read.
I managed to find one plot hole here, about the oldest witch being eligible for the contest.
Among all quick reads, this book has more substance than most.
But I have the feeling it will never go out of print, as there always will be people to pass on the fact that the book is a keeper.
My mum was just telling me the other day how, when I was younger (about 5 or 6, I think), there was a book I used to love.
I would always read and reread and reread it again...
Though I haven't read this book in years and YEARS, I recently found it in a box in the attic and thought "OMG this is the book mum keeps telling I used to love!" and decided to read it again.Unsurprisingly enough, I still love it!
It brought back many great memories and made me tear up a little (aha).
But yes, if the previous didn't explain how great this book is, I'll say it again.
This book it great!
I love it!
Read it!
This is one of the charming, intriguing, hilarious, and outright pleasurable books I have ever read!
It's about Arriman the Aweful, a wizard famous for both his power and his good looks has decided to marry a witch.
Belladonna is is determined to win the competition but the problem is she is a distressingly good witch.This book does have occasional dark turns and some crazy disturbing characters like, the wife-murdering ghost of Darkington Hall, Sir Simon and Madame Olympia, The Enchantress whose husbands mysteriously disappear and the human teeth in her necklace grows longer.
They may sound dark when I say it but in the novel they are absolutely hilarious!
A fun read - silly and sweet, and yes, charming.I should just start writing "CHARMING" ten times in a row for all of my Ibbotson reviews. I can't seem to come up with another word for her. She's charming and delightful. Go read her.My work here is done.
She longs to be dark and dreary like the rest of her coven and be a powerful, black witch.....something that would make her an ideal wife for Arriman.
Despite his magnificent powers, he is basically a normal man quailing in his boots at the prospect of waking up every morning to a wart-covered, slime-wrapped, shrieking witch of a wife!!Laugh-out-loud and a definite treat for children (and adults) who never lose their fascination for magic and mayhem.
The book was just straight up great fun!
I was actually surprised in moments by how dark the story could get (e.g. the witches spells) whilst retaining its lighthearted tone and then I realised how truly long it has been since I've read a children's book if I'm surprised by them being dark - I mean think of Roald Dahl!
Ibbotson's The Secret of Platform 13 was one of my favourite children's books but this is only the 2nd of her works I have read - not for long!
I was inspired in re-visiting this book by my cute little sisters playing witches in our backyard.
And I just sat there and smiled, smart little creatures' I thought who at their young age already understood the beauty of a good-old bad guy.Then I remembered this book.
I remember reading this when I was about 9 not really understanding half of the vocabulary (which struck me as quite complex for a children's book this time around) yet loving the way that the characters all accepted and acted on the common belief of the superiority of being Black.
Arriman, der mächtige Zauberer, möchte sich zur Ruhe setzten. Nachdem er vergeblich auf einen Nachfolger gewartet hat, beschließt er zu heiraten und seinem Sohn den Platz als schwarzer böser Zauberer zu hinterlassen...Die Wahl einer geeigneten Ehefrau verläuft turbulent.Mit viel Humor erzählt Eva Ibbitson von Verliebten heiratswütigen Hexen, sympathischen dreiköpfigen Drachen und skurrilen Zauber Wettkämpfen... Warnung: Vielleicht sollten Eltern Kapitel 13 zuerst lesen , es könnte sensiblere Kinder doch etwas verstören...
This book was adorable so thanks to Nithya. Belladonna is so adorkable and I didn't find her annoying even once :) I got transported back to my childhood!!
It's fun and hilarious.OH, I'd like to know what happens next to Madam Olympia and Sir Simon! How they will try to kill each other!
'Jumpa pertama' dengan Ms. Ibbotson itu ketika nemu  The Haunting of Hiram  di diskonan, dan tiba-tiba jatuh hati ❤ -- kondisi yang mirip-mirip ketika hatiku menggelinding karena karya-karya Enid Blyton, Astrid Lindgren, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Erich Kästner, Roald Dahl, dll~Langsung sangat bernapsu memburu karya-karyanya yang lain ^///^ terutama judul ini, yang kalau 'ndak salah diterbitkan duluan di sini.Akhirnya berhasil dapat setelah 'ratusan abad' berlalu, berkat kebaikan Gusgus o(≧▽≦)o❤ Thanks!!Ciri khas buku Eva Ibbotson itu adalah monster / hantu / makhluk apapun, serta pesan 'moral': "Kita berbeda: aku oke, dan kamu pun oke!"Bagaimana tidak.., di sini, di buku ini, di mana komunitas penyihir hitam menggelegakkan asap kualinya dan mantra-mantra jahatnya, ada sosok Belladonna yang putihnya kebangetan.Melihatnya di-bully serta ambisinya menjadi penyihir hitam, pembaca tentu sangat berharap agar Belladonna 'menang' dan nggak kalah hitam dari penyihir-penyihir lainnya.Kembali sebentar ke dunia nyata: kita pasti sadar kalau kita kadang ga bisa mengubah apa yang ada pada diri kita, karena memang tak terubahkan walau dengan usaha apapun.Dan itu bukan masalah.Dunia memang ga adil dan tidak akan pernah adil.
--- Which Witch? ---Plot: Ok.Gaya bercerita: O...k. Dibeli karena.... *uhuk uhuk uhuk* kepincut dengan isi keranjang kawan saya, Guguk ( ° ʖ °).Novel karya Eva Ibbotson pertama yang saya baca! Dan apa lagi yang bisa membuat saya langsung membacanya, jika bukan karena judulnya? Iya! Iya! Judulnya! Si penyihir mencari istri! XD //gusbangetya.Baca sinopsis langsung ya^^.Plotwise... semua sangat mudah ditebak di buku ini. Karena cerita untuk anak, jadi saya tidak akan mengeluh banyak mengenai hal in
Dan apa lagi yang bisa membuat saya langsung membacanya, jika bukan karena judulnya?
Karena cerita untuk anak, jadi saya tidak akan mengeluh banyak mengenai hal ini.
^^ Tapi kontras dengan pendapat kawan saya (yang sebenarnya juga saya cukup setujui--), saya tidak mendapatkan hal yang benar-benar spesial di karya ini.
Saya juga tidak mengerti kenapa penyihir hitam memiliki keharusan untuk dhuar-dhuar dan membuat orang lain kerepotan karena mereka (tanpa terkecuali tokoh Arriman).
.....Jahat juga ya inti yang saya sendiri dapatkan dari buku ini.Tapi baiklah, tanpa melupakan hal baik di buku ini, bintang tiga mengalir untuk Which Witch!
I can’t rate a book that was a childhood favorite because, how does one pick apart their childhood love with actually reviewing? Impossible Still this book is just dark enough to make you cringe and sweet enough to make you smile. It’s engaging and magical and I’d recommend it to children and adults alike.
Amusing, a bit ghoulish, and entertaining--I thought it was lots of fun for Halloween reading. In retrospect, it wasn't too hard to guess the ending but I wasn't *sure* what would happen, so it was never boring, and there were some surprises along the way.
I also felt this book was predictable (unless that was just me.) They had already made it obvious that *SPOILER ALERT* Belladonna would win the contest and marry Arriman (and all I had to do was read the back...) It sets some sort of,"Can Belladonna do it?
The book describes him here:"Arriman, the handsome Wizard of the North, has decided to marry." This sort of sets that Cinderella mood.
I mean like the theme is wizards and witches (and these things just bore me.) The Cinderella theme to it made it sort of "fun" to read.
is tremendously fun, along the lines of Roald Dahl in that the whimsical story is so well-written that it appeals to young children even while causing adults to smile at a particularly clever turn of phrase.
Ibbotson populates her story with fantastically silly characters, from an elderly witch with a habit of turning herself into a coffee table to a three-headed sea lion who talks like he's straight out of Monty Python.
("He cometh not from the north," said the Middle Head.
"He cometh not from the west neither," said the Left Head.
"And our feet are freezing." "Our feet are blinking dropping off," said the Left Head.)The book manages to be both silly and smart.
"...there really was no way of telling which witch was which." I picked up this book because of the reference in the Castle Hangnail, where Ursula Vernon mentioned Which Witch? as an inspiration. And since I really liked Castle Hangnail, I couldn't miss this one.I guess the author was a pioneer in the genre. Though he book is a bit out-of-date now, it's still not like the lot of children's books. It's really very amusing.Only four stars is for being just amusing, nothing more. It was a good read, but I will not read it again.
It's hilarious, I was laughing so hard while reading it! It's like a parody of all the today's YA paranormal romances. (yeah I know it isn't the intention of the author - just look at the year when it was written, but still..) If I'm to be fair, this book doesn't really deserve four stars, but I'm feeling generous. So what? Does it matter if it's predictable? I mean it didn't stop me from laughing out loud, so who cares?
while we're on Very Important Sorceresses
is a super cute and funny middle-grade book about a big witch competition.
After waiting in vain for a couple of years, his secretary suggests Arriman to marry a witch and then have their child become his successor.
With that thought in mind, Arriman creates a competition to judge the power of several witches and decides to marry the winner.
A lot of that humor comes from the fact that the supposedly dark wizards and witches are not 100% evil.
For example, Arriman is evil and mean, but he is also a gentleman with other interests besides darkness.
So glad I read this again as an adult! I love it as much as I did when reading it as a kid! It's just so much fun, and a little dark and twisted! The writing is so amazing, and the characters really come to life! Going to have to reread her other books now too!
Thanks to Mbak Dyan saya dapat buku ini :) Ceritanya dark fantasy buat anak anak, enggak dark banget, tapi ada bagian yg sadis dan menjijikkan (bagian si enchantress menyihir tikus kanibal).
So. Cute!!!!
Originally published on my blog,  Nine Pages .Spoilers.I’ve read several of Eva Ibbotson’s books. Which Witch? is perhaps one of her best known, possibly for its clever title. It was too one of her earliest, preceded only by The Great Ghost Rescue (of which I’d not heard before writing this review). The theme of this book is a comfortable one: the power of love, the dangers of an absence of love, and the power of love to transform a person. It is told with a twist, however. The protagonists are
The true antagonist is another familiar antagonist type: a cruel authority figure who ought to be nurturing but is not, in this case a matron of an orphanage (see Miss Hannigan, see Miss Minchin, see even Professor Snape).The handsome but wicked Arriman the Awful, wizard of the North, raised by most understanding parents who gave him every opportunity and encouraged his wickedness and power, finds himself aging.
In fright, he manages a spell of his own, and returning to Darkington Hall, takes his place as Arriman’s apprentice and heir, enabling the marriage of Arriman and Belladonna.I openly admit to a love of books that play with the readers’ expectations and with POV particularly.
3 1/2 stars read as an adult
