https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149075.The_Nine_Billion_Names_of_God
"And what happens then?" asks the American computer technician, trying to make a joke of it. "The end of the world?""Oh," replies the monk very seriously, "it's nothing as trivial as that."
http://downlode.org/Etext/nine_billio...
Sometimes, I want to feel chills after I read something. Cold chills. And slow ones, too. Chills that make you want to sit still and close your eyes, because you're so incredibly, absolutely freaked out. The title story is not a horror tale. Artie only wrote high-brow sci/fi, which this is. But the ending....well, let's put it this way: I'll never be able to look up at the stars in the night sky and not think of it.(there's a last time for everything)
It's hard to know exactly what to mention in a review of a book containing so many short stories, but as this collection contains my two favourites, I suppose I'll mention those.The Nine Billion Names of God was the first Arthur C Clarke story I ever read, and within a week of reading it I was devouring his work.
It doesn't have quite the impact for me as the last line of The Nine Billion Names of God, but it's nearly there.Although his full-length works are arguably better known, Arthur C Clarke was a master of the short story.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Arthur C. Clarke has never been my favourite science fiction author -- though this is usually considered blasphemy, I don't particularly like the Rama or 2001 series -- but on the other hand he is a prolific and talented short story writer. It didn't take me long to finish this book -- partly because of the length, and the many power outages we have had recently, but also because as soon as you finish one short story you immediately want to move to the next.
In fact, I only read the eponymous story. Full review and analysis at my blog.A Tibetan monastery buys a computer to help them calculating and printing all possible names of God. They started this manual task some 300 years ago, estimated that it would take another 15,000 years to finish and now want to speed up things - the computer will finish the job within 100 days. Why?
The punch of the ending relies on the reader being a smug Westerner who needs jolted out of their fixed viewpoint, so if that's not you, it may be less effective. Still, the combination of computer science and mysticism is always nice.
My life changed in 1968 at the age of 14 when I saw the the film "2001:A Space Odyssey" in Cinerama (a very wide,curved screen).
It opened my eyes to philosophy (Nietzsche), symphonic music ("Also Sprach Zarathustra"), and cinematography (Stanley Kubrick), I began to look for anything related to this film.Soon thereafter I read this book of short stories by the screenwriter of the film, Arthur C.
The title story "The Nine Billion Names of God" has stayed with me ever since I read it.
I don't want to spoil the story for anyone who hasn't read it, but it sure can cause one to reexamine one's assumptions....
If you're a fan of science fiction, if your imagination takes you to the stars and thinking about its vastness and our existence in the universe humbles you and fills you with awe, you will LOVE this book. Some of these stories are just incredible in both concept and the impactful way that they're told. I can definitely say that this is now one of my favorite books and I can't believe I haven't read it until now.
Me encantó este relato. Demasiado bueno para demostrar cómo es la ciencia ficción en algo corto y con un final espeluznante.
As Dr. Wgner and George approach their plane on horseback and prepare to leave, they comment on how insane the monks are to believe that simply listing names would bring about the end of all things, but as George takes a look at the sky he realizes that all of the stars are going out.Characterization:Dr. Wagner: A scientist who created the automatic sequencing machine.
He is recruited by the monks to allow the usage of and to maintain the machine.George: Dr. Wagner's partner.The lamas: Leaders of the Tibetan monastery who believe that listing all of the names of God will bring about the end of the world.Setting Analysis:Dr. Wagner and his friend are far away from home and require a plane to get back.
Coming off of a plot- and science-heavy novel — The Martian by Andy Weir — it is nice to once again bask in the warm, cerebral embrace of classic science fiction.
Even though I am familiar with the works of Arthur C Clarke, this is the first time I am reading his short stories.
I quite enjoy this format of storytelling from classic science fiction authors.
Collectively, these stories present different facades of space exploration, reminiscent of one of my favourites from Clarke: Rendezvous With Rama.
Of course, this being a collection of short stories, there are hits and misses here.
Dog Star4.
The Star
Артър Кларк отново на ниво.
Поздравления на "Сиела" за разказите!
Отдавна ми се четеше нещо хубаво и смислено и с всяка една страничка потъвах в блажено удоволствие.
Научната фантастика може да бъде една от най-идейните литератури, когато е на ниво, а Артър Кларк безспорно е майстор.
Колкото и напреднали да се технологиите днес, разказите му и сега не са остарели, защото той не пише техническа литература, той твори възможно бъдеще.
Глупаво, но чак след осем години си давам сметка колко мрачен жанр е научната фантастика.
Може би именно това ме е привлякло в него някого.
И може би тази сладки ирония ме връща отново при него.
"Деветте милиарда имена на Бога" е сборник с разкази от Артър Кларк, който е един от най-големите в жанра научна фантастика. Сборникът е кръстен на едноименния разказ, който можете да прочетете безплатно тук. Първо добрите впечатления. Всеки един от 12-те разкази в изданието ми хареса. Стилът на Кларк е такъв, че в повечето разкази буквално не знаеш какво ще стане до последното изречение на последната страница, където се крие развръзката. Цялото ревю тук: "Деветте милиарда имена на Бога" от Артър Кларк
solid collection of hard sci fi stories with commentary by the author on some of them
This book had some amazing stories. The ideas in some of these stories were very interesting and thought provoking. It reminded me why I love Sci-Fi!
One of my all time favorite collections of stories!
More of Clarke's best short stories from the 40's, 50's and early 60's.
There are many humorous stories, but many deal with atomic bombs and the folly of their use.
He has a knack for packing a lot of science into a short entertaining story.
Some of the stories show amazing prescience.
For example, a story from 1946 (one year after the atomic bomb came on the scene), he describes warfare using offensive rockets for atomic bomb delivery as well as defensive rockets for exo-atmospheric interception of offensive rockets.
Of course, the best story is the one that gave rise to the movie "2001 A Space Odyssey".
WOW.
just wow.Clarke is the man of the last phrase.he had his way to make you feel goosebumps after finishing the last line.
" he had chosen these 24 stories himself, these are his favorite, and mine too.
being a sci-fi writer means that you write about space, planets, universes, creatures that you imagined, and Clarke did it very well indeed.
but what he was best at is writing about Earth, future Earths, past Earths, nowadays Earths, earths that had never been, planets to-be earths.
a good stories that remind me why classic Sci-fi will always be the best.my next reading will be with Asimov.
Arthur C. Clarke'ın 1947-57 yılları arasında yazdığı öykülerden oluşan kitap, temiz, güzel bir çeviriyleSarmal Yayınlarından çıkmıştı...Her bir öyküyü ayrı konuşmak gereken 60-70 yıl önce yazılmış olduğuna inanmakta güçlük çekilen muhteşem öyküler. ..Sir Clarke'ın hayal gücüne, öngörülerine hayranlıkla 'bitmesin' diye sindire sindire okuyacağınız öyküler. ..Umarım tekrar basacak bir yayınevi olur...
Arthur Clarke has a whole sprectrum of imagination, I admit it. Sometimes it was so difficult for me to understand the meaning of the sentance that I had to read it over and over again. But this only added more pleasure to my space journey. In addition, I would say that Clarke is scarier than all the authors I have read combined. I am in love with this man's mind. :)
Though these stories were of great variety, all were told with the same smart and precise voice. Not all were intriguing; some were boring, some hopelessly obsolete, but several did well to evoke the profound, about space, about humanity, divinity, eternity, and life of all kinds. The title story was especially thought-provoking, and lives up to its billing of classic.
Tyhle povídky jsou pro mě většinou moc krátké, než se stačím začíst, je konec. Něco mi v nich ale připomíná Hitchcockovský styl, useknutý konec, který si musí člověk nechat doznít ve vlastní představivosti. Místy mi chvilku trvalo zachytit ten správný vtip celé zápletky. Clark má skvělé nápady, budu číst další jeho knihy, ale pokud možno už ne povídkové.
I read this book in grade five, we had a substitute teacher and he would bring in SF/F books. I picked up this one collection, it was fun to re-read. The title story is my favorite and rings true to his other work later in life, The Fountatins of Paradise.
Fantastic.
Predictable and not at all entertaining.
Always love this story.
EL 17.
One of my favorite Clarke short stories which I've read many times over the years.
