https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/952343.Fear
As prolific (as in Guinness World Book of Records prolific) and significant as L.Ron Hubbard was of an author, the man is most well known for starting a cult.
I was curious to see what his writing was like and this book was very well regarded as a masterpiece of psychological horror and a fairly noncommittal length of 101 pages.
Originally published in 1940, it's surprisingly undated with minute exceptions of things like prices.
I can see why this book got the acclaim that it did, though it didn't quite sing to me.
If only the man had stuck with fiction.
(Full confession: I have never read the book, whose 1,000+-page length has long intimidated as well as fascinated me, or seen the film.) But those folks who find it an easy matter to disparage Hubbard seem to forget that the man had a very long and respected career years before the Dianetics article and decades before that whopper novel were written.
As for me, I had previously only read Hubbard's fantasy classic "Slaves of Sleep," which first appeared in Campbell's "Unknown" magazine in 1939 and in an expanded novel form nine years later.
DO NOT be pulled in by the quote from Stephen King on the cover. Fear is a routine pulp thriller, and not one that has aged well. Avoid.
The book starts like a ordinary book, then take a surreal, creepy and supernatural tone until the very last page when the extraordinary truth finally comes about.
Up until the last page, you kinda scratch you head thinking: "Hmmm....where are we going with this??" You can't put it down until all of it makes sense.
I think the suspense from this book is really entertaining and not even the final makes you hate the ordinary teacher James Lowry, even when the writers seems to try very hard to make you!
A great classic horror story!!! makes me wish that more horror writers could write a gripping tale like this one with out the use of monster/gore/ and other literary mechanisms that are not always necessary except for shock and filler
Of everything I have ever read, this by far is the most frightening of all. King, Barker, Koontz; they are lightweight in comparison. I haven't stopped thinking about this story for years. It's that good.
This story was first published in the July, 1940 issue of Unknown, a fantasy pulp magazine edited by John W.
But apparently, Hubbard was a very prolific contributor to the pulp magazines before he organized his new religion/cult (take your pick).
Hubbard was a major contributor to Unknown, which first began publication in 1939 and ran for only 39 issues.
I believe that Hubbard contributed six or seven novels to Unknown during that time, including "Fear."This is the first story I have ever read by Hubbard, and it is reputed to be among his best efforts.
This book is great!
And to top it all off, he seems to have misplaced his hat during that time!So starts Jim's quest for his hat.Jim believes that if he finds his hat, maybe he'll remember how he lost it, and in remembering how he lost it, remember what has happened in the last four hours.This Suspense/Horror novel takes you on a thrilling ride of intrigue and terror, all heightened by the knowledge that the worst has already happened, and may be happening again!
Jim's lack of memories strengthens the belief that something has gone wrong, something he isn't supposed to remember, and never lets you down once it picks you up!
'Fear' by L Ron Hubbard is one of those books, which come along and surprise you.
The story is from the horror genre, along with certain elements of fantasy.
While not very gory, the tale is much more concerned with psychological horror.
The reader is left to ponder the question is the tale real or in the characters head?
The story and its characters are well fleshed out, with a surprising ending.
This tale was one of the first pioneers of the psychological horror theme, as we know it today.
While I mainly know Hubbard as the mysterious founder of Scientology, he first gained fame as a pulp writer.
This book is considered one of his best, a horror classic almost from the moment it was published in 1940.
While dated by modern standards (the stilted, rather wordy first chapter will put off some of the less wary or determined), this story thrills because of its still-scary idea.
A professor loses four hours of his life one Saturday afternoon.
Discovering what happened to him, he learns a horrifying secret about humanity.
A fast read that, with proper editing would make an excellent novella.
Other reviewers have said it better but this was one of L Ron Hubbard's finest since Final Blackout. College Professor Jim Lowry, respected enthologist at Atworthy College. Back from the tropics with a touch of malaria. He mocks the demons and devils and they hear him! The story is quite gripping up to the very end when you see where Lowery's four hours went. And he even finds his hat. And his death! Highly recommended.
L. Ron Hubbard is now synonymous with Scientology so often gets painted with the loony brush.
But I digress...L. Ron Hubbard was an author first and extremely prolific.
After listening to an interview with the genius that is Harlan Ellison, he mentioned a bunch of Hubbard's novels and name-checked Fear so off I went to secure myself a copy.Fear, written in 1940, reads like a Hitchcock film mixed with the Twilight Zone.
See, I told you that would be clumsy.I will get round to reading Battlefield Earth eventually but the important thing is don't be put off by L Ron Hubbard's name.
Ron Hubbard's sci-fi, this just didn't click with me at all.
Written in a simplistic style, Fear has a broad, but promising, premise.
But, alas, only pays off in a series of disjointed non-events, only some of which are interesting.
. ." storytelling, and it frustrates.There was a twist near the end that got me excited for the closure of the book, but it was a red herring, and the actual end was much less satisfying and very abrupt.
Stephen King says in blurb on belly-band of hardcover edition: "If you've never read FEAR, I urge you to do so." In the Foreword King is quoted as saying: "L.
Ron Hubbard's Fear is one of the few books in the chiller genre which actually merits employment of the overworked adjective "classic," as in "This is a classic tale of creeping, surreal menace and horror." If you're not averse to a case of the cold chills - a rather bad one - and you've never read Fear, I urge you to do so.
lol Great fun for horror fans.
A short, fast-paced read.
I like it, yet probably won't use it on the Anthology.The book was rather drab until Lowry lost his four hours, and I think that it will get much better pretty soon.The way in which Hubbard is able to weave the Malaria of Lowry and what Lowry thinks he sees into an almost real, yet somehow not real world.The way in which the author weaves a tail of suspense is truly amazing.
As Lowry moves ever forward, you can almost feel his mind moving back to the demons of his past.Have not read in a while.
This tale rates a 4.5 stars for me. And it's by L. Ron Hubbard! Who would have thought it? My review is part of my discussion of novels eligible for the 1941 Retro Hugo Award in "Looking Back on Genre History" on Episode 427 of StarShipSofa.
I didn't really anticipate the ending -- that probably says a lot about my naivete. However, the twist was well done and inevitable, simple yet very surprising.
This story is by far the best horror story book I have ever read! The twist at the end freaked me out for days!!!!
This is a pre-World War 2 book and it, like Final Blackout, are generally regarded as pretty good pulpy stuff, unlike his later, post-scientology fiction.
I think some of it could have been trimmed, but at 208 pages, it's hardly a long book (it took me 8 days to read it because I have been alternately tired and sick).The paperback I have is the 1991 New-Era (Scientology front) paperback, with a bunch of ads at the end for other Hubbard fiction (Final Blackout, Battlefield Earth and Mission Earth all hold a certain appeal to me now) but, most importantly, the short story Borrowed Glory.
I was going to "DNF" this book but I have this (bad) habit of finishing every single book I start to read.Anyway, there were some very good, sort of philosophical paragraphs in this book which I really, really liked, but I can't give this book more than one star.
I would have given it another star because of these interesting moments I mentioned, but the truth is that even though I enjoyed those paragraphs, I didn't enjoy the book as a whole.
They were VERY interesting and the only reason the book was worth reading.(But then again, the ending sort of invalidates a lot of it to some degree.
It even lasted for days after I finished reading it, as I just kept thinking about how cruel and scary.
and...it can't be true!" As many reviews tell us here, the end is (loved or hated), unexpected nonetheless.
Now, I might add, "it HAS happened to people....!" I watched the other day a documentary which had two, very normal, dads that both ended up experiencing what happened to the protagonist in this horror story.
But knowing that it HAS happened to honest people, makes this a true horror story.
it took one of the dads some 16 hours to realize what happened.
My mind is playing tricks on meI am not as stable as I used to beDo you feel secure about your own mind?
Do you feel safe, and do you trust it?
Can something flip the switch and suddenly you are no longer sane?Or maybe it is not you but powers beyond your control.
Maybe there are really powers lurking at the dark corners of your room (and mind)?Prof.
Was it all in his mind, or all the events that happened were actually a result of him offending the demons?Ok, maybe it is a scary book.
I can't, in good conscious, give this book anything more than 2 stars (and that's probably pushing it, morally for me), simply because of the extraordinarily HORRIBLE things its author would go on to do to people (his own "followers") in the following decades.I'm not going to lie though, this is a very well written, creepy horror story, even reminiscent of H.P. Lovecraft (imho).
It's kinda like reading something "clever" by maybe Charles Manson or someone of the like, ya know?
Maybe that's an exaggeration...but not by much, if you know who this creepy fascist really was.
This and "Typewriter in the Sky" are regarded as his best work ever.
You see between them what he actually thinks of the industry and his own audience.
Especially toward the end of Fear, where all the characters are cardboard cutouts.
Hubbard always fixated on the protagonist, with all other characters being two-dimensional.
His monster work, "Mission Earth" also had the villain as hero, as does Fear and Typewriter.
And his characters are poorly fleshed out, even though he had 10 volumes to do it in.
Fear is also known for mashing together every over-worked Horror trope.
And this was his "best."
The first fifty pages were really chilling and established an atmosphere and psychological direction that was really entertaining yet ambiguous. Then the writing turned surreal or attempted to be surreal and it lost me. It's hard to capture such a visually bizarre experience but it was just all over the place at that point.
Relatado de forma que el lector sea participe del delirio del protagonista. A mi gusto un tanto descafeinado pero no por eso no ha dejado de por lo menos sentir un poco de "Miedo". Recomendado si no sabes que leer en un preciso momento.
After reading this book, i'm standing applause.
Дори фактът, че е писана през 1940 г., не я оправдава. Нито пък това, че е преведена в най-добрите традиции на "мътните деветдесетарски". Скука и половина. Язък за загубеното време.
Solid read. The prose gets a bit sloppy, but overall it's a very good examination of a delusional professor and his breaking point.
Stephen King considers this a classic but I just don't see it myself. Ray Bradbury called it "a true scare" but I didn't feel it. It was ok.
