https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1442113.The_Saint_s_Getaway
Published in 1933, this installment of the Saint's adventures takes place in about 24 hrs start to finish.
I never did figure out why "black italics" would be necessary.Everything was a matter of split seconds in that discreet getaway, and no one knew better than Simon Templar that only an exhibition of agility that would make cats look silly was going to skin a ninth life out of the hornet's nest that had blown up under his feet.
I’ve owned this book for over forty years, and I never tire of re-reading it.(It no doubt also greatly pleased Charteris’s publisher friend with whom he used to kick around plot ideas — one Monty Haydon.)Variously published as Getaway and The Saint’s Getaway.
The finale of the trilogy We met Prince Rudolph first in "THE LAST HERO", and the adventures continued in "THE AVENGING SAINT".
In this book, the finale book of what could be called a trilogy, we are given a view of Simon Temple though the eyes of his reporter friend Monty.
(Even when one is fully aware of it's results and tries to resist, even if only half-heartedly.)  As usual with the Saint, the adventures are non-stop and he is always looking out for his friends along the way.
This is classic early 'Saint', it leads on immediately after 'The Holy Terror' (The Saint Vs. Scotland Yard) and sees The Saint accidentally becoming embroiled in the aftermath of a jewel robbery, and the book takes place over around 2 days, as the saint, with his friend Monty Heywood, rescues a man being attacked by thugs, and discovers he has inadvertently helped a jewel thief escape from the police.A chase across Austria and Germany ensues, with the Saint meeting his old enemy, Prince Rudolf. Lots of fun, and one of my favourite car chases in the whole Saint saga!
I'm not usually a fan of the early Saint books where he's one of a band of modern-day buccaneers. Simon Templar doesn't need an entourage, the incomparable Patricia Holm is partner enough for an hero. In this novel Simon and Pat have a tag along companion, Monty Hayward, but here it works because he offers the reader an insightful outsider's look at this amazing duo during one of their most challenging adventures. Highly recommended.
Originally published on my blog here in January 2000.Having more seriously annoyed Scotland Yard than usual (in Saint V.
Scotland Yard), Simon Templar has resolved to be good.
This snowballs into a large-scale adventure, as the Saint and his old enemy Crown Prince Rudolph chase each other across Europe to gain possession of some priceless jewels, both sides also arousing the interest of the police.Getaway is probably the longest Saint book, but that does not make it the most interesting.
It is rather more predictable than most of the novels from this period, and lacks something of Charteris' usual sparkle.
It is a more conventional thriller, rather reminiscent of Dornford Yates (though Simon Templar is more interesting as a hero than Yates' upper class Englishmen).
The Saint With a Travelogue and Adventure, No SlidesThings got a little too hot in England with Mr. Teal and a packet of diamonds.
And wouldn't love to live the adventure and a recounter with Prince Rudolph?No Rayt Markus this time.
Just the Prince, his henchmen, and assorted characters along the way.
What makes this novel unique is Leslie Charteris' take on the proceedings through the eyes and feelings of Monty.
Much of the Saint's take on life is explained to us thru Monty.This is one of his adventures I thoroughly enjoyed even to the grand finale which can't be beat - the uncrowning of his ancient enemy who is ruthless in his executions.
One of the older and original Saint books, this time for the third time he goes up against Crownprince Rudolph.Simon, Pat & Monty Hayward are enjoying a nice and quiet stroll in the evening when they happen to stumble upon a man being attacked by thugs.
And Simon finds the odds unfair and enters the exchange with a rather unwanted result for the attackers.
His Saintly companions have their own adventures while the story heads into confrontation between the Crownprince Rudolph and himself.Great story that in my opinion is part of the greatest era for the Saint in his books.
I have been a fan of Leslie Charteris since I discovered The Saint, in book form, in the 1980s.
But once finding a paperback reprint of Follow the Saint I have become a hugely devoted fan of the entire literary series.
The most succinct description comes from the new introduction written by Burl Barer when he says, "This is escapist fare - a rattling good adventure providing the perfect getaway for any reader." That is precisely what I look for when I sit down with such a book, and this one delivers in spades.
This is classic pulp fiction, not much more realistic than a James Bond novel. It's still fun, just nothing special. I did find that after a pause 2/3 the way through, my interest in finishing it wasn't that high, but at least it wasn't a chore to finish it.
No better use of yet another snow day than again spending time with Simon Templar. Almost half a century since I first read this early Saint novel, I still delight in the moral clarity, social irony and breezy wit. Great fun. Yesterday and today!
First book in the Saint series I've read. I found it disappointing. Charteris uses metaphors an awful lot. Got a bit sick of them. Story was fast paced. I'll try another sometime.
Simon and Patricia are off to Insbrook for a rest, but of course life is never that simple for the Saint. This book is slightly different because it is voiced mainly by Monty.
read some time in 1993
Leslie Charteris worked Körperkultur and Wandervogels into this one, which makes me happy :)
