https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9530.Shadow_Divers
Quickly assembling a team of only the best divers to submerge to the risky depth of 230 feet, the race to discover the mystery of a sunken World War II vintage submarine had begun.Emerging as the leaders of the quest to obtain the identity of the Who-Boat were John Chatterton and Richie Kohler, Kurson's leading informants on this project.
Whether it was in the form of meetings at restaurants, late night phone calls, or fact seeking missions to the United States Naval Archives in Washington, D.C., Chatterton and Kohler would not rest physically or emotionally until they knew for certain the identity of their mystery U-boat.With the divers as his guides, Kurson pieces together the difficulty in solving a unique case.
I need to know more!" I think that means Robert Kurson might be a brilliant writer.My husband is a U.S. Navy submarine veteran and belongs to a local base of crusty submariners (most of the members are WWII era gents) and whenever I've attended one of their events with him, the technical discussions about submarine qualifications and specifications bores me to tears.
And yet I've been talking my husband's ear off all week about German U-boats.
He keeps looking at me like he doesn't know me.
Not only the history of the sub and the men who lost their lives for their country, but the history of wreck-diving, Chatterton and Kohler's histories, and the history of Bill Nagle.I kept reading through the different chapters thinking, "that's just craziness", or "no WAY!", but I couldn't put it down.
I was genuinely saddened by the losses of divers, and the reconstructed history and eventual loss of the men aboard the U-boat.I'm amazed by the sheer dedication from Mr. Chatterton and Mr. Kohler.
Well, I've done some calculations, and it turns out that there are precisely one-bagillion ways to die while deep water diving. As I'm neither Boyle, nor Dalton nor Henry I won't be going into grave (as in watery grave) detail vis-à-vis the laws of physics that make humans so ill-equipped to brave the pelagic depths of the sea.* Things like  nitrogen narcosis  can impair even a master diver's decision-making skills, and those decisions can often be fatal. Wreck diving, the subject of this riveti
As I'm neither Boyle, nor Dalton nor Henry I won't be going into grave (as in watery grave) detail vis-à-vis the laws of physics that make humans so ill-equipped to brave the pelagic depths of the sea.* Things like 
However, this isn't just a story about people doing something extremely dangerous (which, admittedly, has an appeal).
This book will also get your heart pumping (which is ok, since your oxygen gauge isn't running low) if you're at all into WWII military history.
The Physics of Diving
pageBonus example of something you do not want to happen while diving:
But hey, the best things in life often require healthy doses of patience, tenacity, grace, and a whole lot of love.
Through thick and thin, solace and strife, headaches and heartaches, they tested themselves as divers, historians, companions, and above all - as men, staying the course to solve the mystery of the German U-Boat sunk off the waters of New Jersey where no sub should have been.
It took several years and dives, sifting through archives, traveling abroad, many thousands of dollars, and three deep water divers losing their lives before the u-boat could be identified with 99.9% certainty.
It is also a non-fiction book about the discovery of an unidentified submarine where none was said to exist.
There is a huge difference between knowing "what Mr. X did then and there" and understanding why that person made the choices he made.
I never came to understand John Chatterton or Richie Kohler.
If we want to understand Kohler we need to know this.
The book presents the actions of the people, but I still never come to understand these men.
So, if you want to be scared, the audiobook is a great choice.
I remember them perservering through it all to try to uncover the truth about something they had fallen in love with, in a way.I guess he had wanted to entertain me while I was stuck with him at his office the whole day.
Maybe he wanted to teach me a lesson about dedication and freindship.
Maybe he wanted to teach me about my Jewish heritage and submarines and warfare and such, somehow.
I remember loving this book and not putting it down until I was finished.
Mostly, though, I just remember asking my dad what a motherfucker was, hah!
2 amateur “shadow” divers moved beyond reason, spent 6 years of their lives in study, research, planning, travel, and dangerous deep sea diving (risking death countless times, three men did in fact die while diving the wreck) to uncover the identity of a lost WW2 submarine discovered in 1991 on the floor of the Atlantic just off the coast of New Jersey.
John Chatterton is likely now the world’s finest deep sea diver.
A docudrama in words, Shadow Divers has earned its prominent place on my bookshelf inspiring a current of new direction in my adventure reading.www.uboat.nethttp://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/lostsub/http://www.johnchatterton.com/http://www.titanic2006.com/http://uboat.net/boats/u869.htmhttp://www.uscg.mil/hq/g-cp/history/W...http://www.richiekohler.com/http://www.history.com/shows.do?episo...
That some number of them died in the attempt is no surprise.John Chatterton and Richie Kohler, the two heroes of the story (you know them from the series Deep Sea Detectives), transform what started as an artifact-hunting expedition into a life-consuming obsession that busted both their marriages, nearly killed them, actually killed three of their fellow divers, caused fights and broken friendships, and cost them a great deal of money before they finally succeeded.
They were Kurson’s business partners in writing the book, and while Shadow Divers isn’t exactly hagiography, it’s not unexpected that the two men come off perhaps better than they would have in more independent hands.What Kurson labors mightily to do, but doesn’t quite succeed in the trying, is to make the depths of Chatterton’s and Kohler’s obsessions accessible.
Liked it, gave it four stars.The best part, the many and detailed descriptions of searching the u-boat.
The hazards, the danger, the insistence of certain divers to keep going back and back again, and yes, back again.Why I took off one star, I didn't like the main characters.
Perhaps I know too many people like this, driven to such exacting precision and perfection they become almost stereotypes of themselves.
I wanted to say (to the author) yeah, I know, your MC is driven, he's brave, he's courageous, he's a man's man, a hero, actually he's more than a man.
I believe I read a review of this book recently that stated: Things I'm not interested in, 1.) WW2 U boats, 2.)Deep sea diving 3.) WW2 history of any kind....And yet I LOVED this book!
While I do typically stick to WW2 fiction, I found this read absolutely fascinating.
And I'm equally awed by the divers that were so committed to revealing the mystery behind this U boat.
I had no idea any german U boats were ever that close to our shores.) I happened to listen to this via CD.
It was so interesting to hear their voices.
Such a spectacular tale of the characters and mystery behind the discovery of a sunken German submarine off the NJ coast. From the technicalities of deep wreck diving to the lives of U boat sailors in WWII, this incredible true story reads like a Clancy thriller. Literally could not put it down. Bravo, to the discovery itself, and to the author for telling the tale so well.
A thrilling story that's even more compelling because it's a true story.
This was a great recommendation from Emilie! I don't normally read non-fiction, but this was a perfect mix of facts and storytelling. I actually found myself holding my breath during the intense diving scenes.
This nonfiction book lives up to its subtile: The true adventures of two Americans who risked everything to solve one of the last mysteries of World War II.
In order to fully appreciate my review of this book, you need to know that I am not a World War II (or WWI for that matter) buff in any shape or form.
This story of deep water wreck divers stumbling across a sunken German U-boat off the New Jersey coast in 1991, and how they go about trying to determine its identity is a fascinating and gripping read.
This is the story of two brave divers, John Chatterton and Richie Kohler, and how they solved these mysteries.
Their goal is to shed light on this mystery, and bring closure to the families of the dead sailors whose skeletons remain aboard the sunken wreck.
Not until they hashed out their differences did they see each other as colleagues, partners, and friends.The book interleaves the exploration of the shipwreck with a narrative of the lives of the sailors aboard the U-boat.
The story is expertly told, giving the reader a true, intense feeling for the dangers aboard the U-boat, both for the sailors and for the exploring divers.
The story of several divers who discover a u-boat 60 miles of the coast of New Jersey - that's right, a NAZI FRICKING SUBMARINE that was so close the submariners in it could have THROWN bombs at us if they wanted, let alone launching torpedoes...
The book takes you beyond just the facts of the finding, into the lives of the divers who first located, then risked their lives to return to the wreck again and again until they had found out what it was and verified what lay within.

3.5 StarsThis story had me hook line and sinker.
I initially came to it with its comparison to Jon Krakauer's "Into Thin Air", which blew me away.
There is no doubt for the comparison.
Where Into Thin Air delves into the politics and risks of climbing Mt. Everest, Shadow Divers deals in the risk and politics of deep sea diving.
This is a true story of discovery.
I do come away with a richer understanding of deep sea diving, u-boats and their role in World War Two. Now I think I should go watch Daas Boot or U-571.
I read this the first time years ago when I was just starting to think about getting into technical diving and it earned 5 stars from me.
I decided to re-read it now that I'm routinely doing trimix dives on shipwrecks at the same depth as the U-861; it holds up quite well.
I appreciated the book so much more the second time through now that I have a much deeper (heh) appreciation for what is involved when diving deep shipwrecks.
If the description of the book catches your interest, give it a try; it's a good one!
Thanks for the recommendation Lori. There was no way I was ever going to read a book about scuba divers discovering a U-boat under 230 foot of water off the New Jersey coast without serious prodding. Nothing could have interested me less. And yet, I was gripped from beginning to end. The story was good enough in itself, but Kurson did a fantastic job of bringing the whole thing to life. One of those rare occasions when non-fiction is every bit as absorbing as fiction.
Not only the date by date survey of a diving project that lasted many years, but also the depth and core story of the reality for the divers who accomplished the answers to the mystery.Knowing you were going to get the tale of a sunken U boat, I had no idea you would also get the biography to emotional depths and physical conditions for the principles who operated this obsession off "The Seeker".
And did end with a more total obsession.Being within the U-505 in Chicago during different periods of my life, I knew the spaces and the constraints of that reality.
Best book I've read in five years.
He weaves the right combination of non-fiction research and a fascinating tale of two men struggling for seven years--against incredible and unexpected odds--to figure out which U-Boat they had found.
This may be the best non-fiction I have ever read.
The book moves quickly between narrative scenes and factual/historical context, and Kurson's voice is not sentimental.
When you finish the book and look at this story, the amount of material Kurson had to comprehend and then organize into a narrative, his work is astounding.
According to all the history books, it simply couldn’t be there.
But that’s just the plot on which hang the other, even more gripping stories, the ones about the price of friendship, the testing of character, the insanity of war, the writing of history, the human love for mysteries and the equally human need to solve them, and through it all an over-the-shoulder look into the claustrophobic and sometimes fatal world of deep wreck diving.
Imagine you are deep sea diving to a shipwreck over 200 feet below the surface, swimming inside, disturbing the surrounding silt such that visibility becomes nil, and having to find your way back out.
This book contains plenty of adventure, exploration, historical research, and mystery.
I found the first half of this book fascinating.
I think it is difficult to make historical research particularly interesting, and the second half slowed down considerably.
Recommended to those interested in non-fiction, WWII, slowly-building mysteries, exploration, maritime history and deep sea diving.
Contains a great deal of crude language which may be offensive to some.
In basic training in Texas, I went with three other guys to the Gulf of Mexico.
We rented four oxygen tanks to dive with.
No way I was going to go through with it, but I had to preserve my manhood, so I I kept complaining about my tank did not work.
Only one of us actually went out under the ocean for about 30 minutes till we were about ready to call rescuers to get his body.
We still stayed on shore complaining the tanks did not work.
It's an amazing story of wreck divers exploring a sunken German U-boat from World War II off the coast of New Jersey.
Moreover, we learn about the German submarines and about the crucial Battle of the Atlantic of World War II.
It takes six years--and the loss of three lives--before they are able to learn the identity of the sub-and how it got there off the Jersey shore.
A well-told story that is very engaging-- and it leaves me wondering why men are willing to risk their lives in their pursuits.
Es de esos libros que me encantan porque a través de la historia te brindan conocimientos sobre una profesión, en este caso de los buzos que se dedican a la búsqueda de pecios, que amplían tu cultura como lector.
La descripción las actividades que se relacionan con la búsqueda de pecios es inmejorable: el oficio de los buzos, los peligros que conlleva la inmersión a profundidades alrededor de 70 metros, la influencia de las condiciones climáticas, lo delicado del ingreso a estructuras con muchos años sumergidas, la pasión de los buzos por develar la historia detrás de estos descubrimientos, los gastos que conlleva la investigación de los protagonistas para esclarecer la identidad del submarino, el impacto en la vida personal de las personas que se dedican al submarinismo de grandes profundidades; y muchas otras cosas que este libro nos enseña que para estas personas la búsqueda de pecios es una forma de vida.
This book was interesting and made me think of history in a completely different way in that, what is written in the history books may not be as accurate as I once thought.
I’ve only been diving a couple of times and really enjoy it, but these guys are SERIOUS and took some risks I don’t think I could’ve taken.
When the author was talking about them changing regulators or almost running out of air or actually running out of air I could feel myself breathing for them (as of that would help ;)I really enjoyed this book b/c it’s a biography/history/mystery/adventure story about diving!
3.5 stars for this exciting true tale of two renowned shipwreck divers who discovered a lost, historically unaccounted for German WWII U-boat lying in the depths off the shore of Brielle, NJ.
I admired the incredible bravery, obsession and compassion of the pair, who refused to give up until they identified the boat and could provide closure to the families who lost loved ones on the doomed ship.
Three of the divers who assisted them died underwater in what I learned is one of the most dangerous sports and professions in the world.
Interestingly, one of the two, John Chatterton, grew up in my hometown, Garden City, NY.
