https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182434.Tim
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و چهارم ماه آگوست سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: با تو شاید؛ نویسنده: کالین مک کالو؛ مترجم: مریم مفتاحی؛ تهران، شیرین، 1377؛ در 296 ص؛ شابک: 9645564220؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان استرالیایی - سده 20 منام اصلی رمان: «تیم» است، و نخستین رمان از این بانوی نویسنده ی استرالیائی، و یک عاشقانه ی متفاوت است.
همیشه نوشته هایم، نه برای انتشار؛ بلکه برای رضایت دل خودم است»؛ در این داستان «مری»، زن چهل و پنج ساله ی تنهایی ست، که زندگی و شرایط مالی خوبی دارد.
او هرگز ازدواج نکرده، و هرگز هم عاشق کسی نشده، و یا سعی نکرده که عاشق کسی شود، و «تیم»، پسر زیبای بیست و پنج ساله ای ست، که کندذهنی، و زیبائیش، او را از دیگران متمایز کرده است.
The story in this review is of a real-life couple in a similar relationship.Joey was a local guy from a little out-island.
Her family took him everywhere for rehabilitation and although is body was fixed, mentally he was like an 11 or 12 year old boy.Mari tried for a couple of years to help him and be with him, but it was too hard for her to relate to him and they split up.
(hide spoiler)]So Joey worked a bit collecting garbage from the beach on the little island and his life just stagnated.
But then Joey took to the airwaves again, begging DJsto play love songs to Elizabeth begging her to please come home.
This audio was enjoyable, a talented narrator that switched from characters seamlessly, especially for Tim's character, a developmentally delayed adult who is unknowingly trapped in the most handsome body, with the mind of a younger child.
This book was written in the 70's, so it was a blast from the past hearing the word 'retarded' and 'retard' as this was the way back then.
Mary is 45, a very well to do spinster typical of the time, who forms a strong bond with Tim, she falls in love with him from her first site that was from a distance.
Tim loved her and he was utterly comfortable with her in every way.
Para começar devo dizer que nem sempre sou muito feliz a classificar um livro através do número de estrelas.
Mas já neste primeiro livro, Colleen McCullough desafiou as mentes retrógradas, já aqui se pode antever o desafio de falar de amores insólitos que viria a culminar com o fantabulástico Pássaros FeridosE não só teve coragem (estava-se em 1974) como teve extrema sensibilidade a tratar um tema delicado, em momento algum resvalou para ações ou palavras medíocres.
:)On the surface, "Tim" is a story of an unlikely relationship between a child-like 25 year old mentally retarded man, the title character, and a 43 year old straight-laced and emotionally distant spinster, Mary Horton.
Even sitting here writing this, I'm at a loss to describe just what it is that touched me so deeply, but I'm close to tears just thinking about the way that she makes simple concepts turn into life-altering truths.
For instance, at one point when Tim is sleeping, Mary ponders what his dreams are like: Did he venture forth as limited in his nocturnal wanderings as he was during his waking life, or did the miracle happen which freed him from all his chains?I had to stop and think about this.
A família sempre se preocupou com ele e com a sua segurança futura mas lamentavelmente investiram pouco no seu desenvolvimento intelectual.Não é fácil ler sobre crueldade dirigida contra uma alma tão inocente como a de Tim. Vítima de incompreensão, Tim vive uma existência muito solitária; apesar das suas tentativas para compreender o mundo que o rodeia e fazer parte do mesmo, é sempre colocado à margem e muitas vezes maltratado.
McCullough mostra-nos como as aparências iludem: na sua simplicidade, Tim tem na verdade muito para oferecer ao contrário de outros personagens não debilitados na mente mas sim no carácter, manchando a pureza da amizade e amor de Mary e Tim com a sua maldade.
Well I have read and loved many of this author 's books but this one did not really work for me.
Much of the story is naive and unbelievable and the characters are stereotypes.
I enjoyed it in parts but skimmed a lot of the long paragraphs where people explained their actions and their inner feelings.
Sorry to all the people who love it - it was obviously just not my cup of tea!
I understand it was her first book but how she got from this to the Masters of Rome I cannot imagine.
Tim Melville tem vinte e cinco anos, a beleza de um deus grego e a idade mental de uma criança - é um "mal acabado", um "atrasado mental".
Entre ambos nasce uma amizade improvável, que se vai solidificando, cada um aprendendo com o outro novas perspectivas e experiências de vida.
Até que a relação chega a um ponto crítico e sofre uma mudança qualitativa.
Nem tudo na história é de uma plausibilidade imediata, mas a sensibilidade e a doçura com que aborda um tema delicado - a diferença e a imperfeição e a sua plena aceitação por outrem - é impossível não nos tocar.
Confesso que não estava nada à espera de gostar tanto deste livro. Ainda gostei mais do que o Pássaros Feridos.
Still.. 5 Huge Stars - Forever one of mine early very memorable readings  Sometimes I fall down in the old memory lane...I loved this story then long ago. Looked in my bookshelf and my Swedish translated hardcover book was printed in 1980 and I bought it (perhaps on a sale) in 1982. Yes, 1.9.8.2 !!! I've read it a few times since then but it is certainly 15 years since the last time. A great of heart touching story about a 'older' mature woman and a young man who still partly is and always will
5 Huge Stars - Forever one of mine early very memorable readings
I've read it a few times since then but it is certainly 15 years since the last time.
A great of heart touching story about a 'older' mature woman and a young man who still partly is and always will be, a boy at mind and heart.Do you remember a young, so very delightful goodlooking new Aussie actor named Mel Gibson in the movie (Tim 1979)?
This is after all an Australia story written by one of my old favorite authors, Colleen McCullough.
And she has written so many great books.
4  stars. A wonderful feeling at the end for two people loving each other. But there is also sadness about Tim’s challenges.A richly done novel of love. I was engaged throughout. I didn’t want to stop reading. Tim is 25 with the mind of a child. He seems to be happy about most things. A spinsterish woman in her 40s truly loves him. She goes through changes because of him. I was so happy for them at the end. My feelings were wow, warm, wonderful. But I was also sad thinking about Tim. He’s mistre
A wonderful feeling at the end for two people loving each other.
But there is also sadness about Tim’s challenges.A richly done novel of love.
But I was also sad thinking about Tim. He’s mistreated by others - even his mother who loved him.
Tim missed Teddy for years.
Jess was like Tim. But the Jess story was not sad.
I also gave Simple Jess 4 ½ stars.Tim was made into a movie with a young Mel Gibson.Minor complaint:I didn’t understand many words used by Tim’s parents - Australian dialect.
Swearing language: moderate including religious swear words, but not often used.
A leitura deste livro leva-nos a reflectir sobre um assunto tabu.
Apesar de Tim ter um atraso, isso não o impede de amar.
Ser doente não significa não ter direito de amar e hoje em dia, estar ou ser doente significa viver sob a pena da sociedade.
Eles também têm o direito de ser felizes e de amar e ser amados.
No fim do livro há uma situação que deixa Mary encavacada, no entanto não a magoa - mas eu fiquei.
Como é que há pessoas tão mal intencionadas.
Não julguem as pessoas pela aparência ou pela sua incapacidade.
É um romance de uma sensibilidade e de uma beleza fora do comum, tal como os seus personagens.
Colleen McCullough é uma escritora Australiana, falecida em Janeiro de 2015 aos 77 anos, e este livro foi editado pela primeira vez em 1974, três anos antes de "Pássaros Feridos", que tenho igualmente curiosidade em ler.Fiquei rendida à sua escrita fluida e mágica, que mexeu comigo de uma forma inesperada através das reflexões dos próprios personagens, dos seus sentimentos e receios.
Mais do que um romance, este livro é um manual para a vida: as pessoas não precisam ser perfeitas para terem direito à felicidade...Que mais posso dizer?!
با تو شاید که اسم اصلیش " تیم" ه، یکی از کتاباییه که داستانش رو هرگز نمی تونم فراموش کنم.
ماجرای غیرمعمولی وابستگی یه زن میانسال و سخت گیر که تو زندگیحرفه ایش به شدت موفق و در زندگی شخصیش، شدیدا تنهاست، به پسر جوان بی نهایت زیبایی که از مشکلات ذهنی رنج می برهکتاب درباره ی کنار گذاشتن دیگران از زندگی تونه.
اگر می دونید و باور دارید که دارید تو راه درست قدم برمی دارید، این باید برای شما و هرکسی که شما رو دوست داره کافی باشه.به علاوه قلم کالین مک کالو واقعا بی نظیره.
مطمینم طرفدارای "پرنده ی خارزار" در این مورد با من موافقن
With the recent passing of Colleen McCullough and seeing her novel 'Tim' on the Kindle Daily Deals, I thought it was time I read one of her books.
I should have guessed with the novel starting out with two women emptying their chamber pots - not a present day occurrence in Sydney.At the time Colleen was writing this, I was a young boy in mid-primary school.
As such, I was able to feel comfortable with the setting and the style of writing.The main story is about the love that develops between Mary, a 43 year old spinster, and Tim, a young man with the body of a Greek god but the IQ of a child.
I really loved some of the sayings of Mary’s boss Archie – in fact his reference to ‘Sweet Bartlett Pears’ gave me flashbacks to my childhood and the brown tin the pears used to come in (anybody else remember that??).The other thing that shines is how Colleen McCullough captures everyday people – in this case an average, working class family.You can almost feel the walls coming down from Mary brick by brick as she realises that Tim is so uncomplicated that there is nothing for her to fear.
Tim is one of those stories lost but not forgotten in time, and I actually found it quite the page turner. I'm happy I can check it off my tbr now.Colleen McCullough writes characters you can care about, and her writing was descriptive in this but not tedious. Anything from the scenery, to the food, to the clothes—you feel like you're there in Australia with them.Side note: one of Mel Gibson's very first movie roles, and he was so cute in it! ;)
a most unusual but believable love story. Not only do the main characters ring true but they are surrounded by equally believable supporting characters. I loved Tim's mum! And the Australian landscape was beautifully evoked. A remarkable book.
This is an amazingly sensitive early portrayal of a mentally disabled man and his relationship with a woman. For people who want to write about mental disability or even know more about it -- this is a book I would recommend. Yes, it does fall into romantic tropes at times, but the viewpoints of the disabled man, his parents and his sister are just so realistically drawn. This is a quiet, powerful book.
Uma história belissima sobre o Amor e as diferenças humanas, que nos mostra que em conjunto tudo se completa.Tim e Mary viviam cada um a sua vida de forma estranha, mas ao juntarem as suas diferenças completaram a sua existencia podendo assim viver de uma forma o mais "normal" possivél. Desta história retiramos que devemos aprender a viver com as diferenças dos outros e assim podermos ver as nossas próprias "diferenças", porque todos nós as temos.
No matter how many times I read this it never fails to make me shed a tear or two. Tim, a stunning looking, young man with special needs is befriended by a lady who lives in the house next door to where he is working as a builders labourer, From thereon the story unfolds...... A one sitting book if you have the time.
Há muito que tinha curiosidade neste livro pois foram várias as boas opiniões que vi e finalmente tive a oportunidade de o ler.Tim Melville é um jovem de 25 anos, de uma beleza única, trabalhador na construção civil mas que tem uma deficiência mental, e quando está a trabalhar numa casa ao lado da de Mary Horton, é gozado pelos seus colegas, e Mary acaba por o ajudar.
Mary e Tim iniciam assim uma forte amizade e uma relação que acabará por mudar a vida aos dois.Gostei bastante de ir acompanhando esta bonita relação de amizade e acompanhar o crescimento de Tim, que vai florescendo através do seu contacto com Mary.Um ponto que não me agradou tanto foi a linha temporal, isto é, achei que não era perceptível o passar do tempo.
3.5
É do encontro entre estas duas pessoas que o livro fala.Enquanto estava a ler este livro, dei por mim várias vezes a pensar no surreal que é a imagem de um homem tão bonito ser atrasado mental, pelo facto de ser algo pouco visto, mas a verdade é que a autora consegue que o leitor o encare como uma realidade, sendo a sua inocência e vulnerabilidade de tal forma “visíveis” que temos vontade de saltar para dentro da história para o proteger.
I was mindlessly carousing along my school library's bookshelves, waiting for my next lecture and out of curiosity or perhaps mild interest, I picked out this book.
I don't really like reading stories that has an older heroine and a younger hero.
I love Tim and Mary, they're really perfect for each other.
Oh and I love love loveeeee a sentence in this book and it's from Tim's point of view: "And love her, love her, love her......"For a man that has a child's mind, I say he's a sweetheart.
So, you all should really read this book.
So, you all should really read this book.
This was my first Colleen McCullough book and it won't be my last! Her writing was exquisite and so moving. She truly has a gift for putting feelings and emotions into words and you can't help but be pulled in and hypnotized by her.This was such a unique story and unlike anything I've read before. There was such a tenderness and vulnerability to it that tugged at my heart from the very beginning. I loved watching the beautiful relationship that developed between Tim and Mary and I was never quite sure where it would ultimately lead. I wasn't disappointed :)
I read this book when it first came out. Talking to my blog partner reminded me of the beautiful Colleen McCullough books I read, including Tim. Such real, multi-layered characters, thoughts, and so very Aussie in nature. I do love sweet and kind primary characters and I get that here in Tim. I feel a re read coming on.
Breaks my heart every time!
Una storia d’amore fuori dal comune, un libro dolce, tenero, scritto magnificamente. È il secondo libro che leggo della McCullough ed anche questo si legge scorrevolmente. Peccato che non sia più in stampa.
Es una curiosa combinación, pero realmente irresistible.El libro trata del desarrollo de la relación Mary-Tim, apenas hay hechos y sucesos, pero sí que está lleno de encuentros, desencuentros, sentimientos, descubrimientos de esos mismos sentimientos, dilemas, dudas, miedos, luchas de conciencia, la presión social, remordimientos, amistad, compasión, atracción, amor...“Tim” es el primer libro de McCullough, el inicio de una larga lista de novelas que lanzó a esta escritora a la fama.
