https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7494.Suzanne_s_Diary_for_Nicholas
They had much in common and a completeness, but when Matt suddenly leaves the relationship, Katie is left with many questions and wonders what went wrong.
She recognizes Matt’s handwriting on the package instantly, and when she opens it, she finds a book titled Suzanne’s Diary for Nicholas.
It’s something I’ve always wanted to do (write to my children about our time together so they can read about it later in life).
There were parts that I forgot and the story felt quite fresh to me, but I prepared myself ahead of time for the end because I remembered how emotional I was after the first reading.
This book was the worst I've read. I actually felt less intelligent when I finished it. I feel empathy for people who think this is quality writing. Put it this way, the book was so bad that the movie was better. I actually liked the movie a lot, which means it wasn't the story, it was the author. Patterson needs to stick to mystery or whatever he does... ...Did I mention I didn't like this book at all?
Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas is an amazing love story, for me it was a page turner that I read in less than 24 hours (quite a feat with a nursing baby)!
I also related to the loving relationship between Suzanne and her husband.I think I might want to name my next son Nicholas after reading this book (if I have another)!Here are sweet poems written to Nicholas which imparts the joy of having a beautiful, innocent, baby:1)You’re my little Nicky Knack I love you so, you love me back.I love your toes, your knees, your nose, And everywhere a big kiss goes.I kiss you tons, and know what then?
Ovaj romantični iskorak u Patersonovom opusu ne zaostaje za Nikolasom Sparksom... :)
I've read more of James Patterson's novels than I care to admit, and from what I've observed, their general pattern is a little bit of exposition followed by some drama and suspense, which is mostly boring or unbelievably contrived (or both), followed by some sappy, overly-sentimental, unimaginative, and highly predictable denouement.
Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas is a deviation from Patterson's mode of operation in the following respect: it isn't suspenseful or even remotely thrilling.
Not even if you stand on your head, squint your eyes, and read it backwards.
well, probably since the Patterson novel that immediately preceded it.
I still rue the day I picked up this book from the library and even more, reading the first page.
Oh, how I regret reading to the end.
The over-the-top crude attempts at "tear-jerker moments." I resent James Patterson's theft of the three hours of my life it took to read this (although it would have been less had I not kept putting it down to debate whether to invest any more time).
When the book ended, I hated the characters.
My contempt for this book ranks right up there with the movie "City of Angels", which I still regret going to see.
I must also admit I only read it for a Xmas Challenge - read a book with the name Nicholas in the title:)In my opinion Patterson took his skills at writing suspense and applied them to a romance instead.
And of course there was the final twist which always comes just when you think you know it all.It is a very sad book too with many tear jerking moments.
Of course it was a bit corny and the characters a bit too perfect but most of the best romances are a bit that way.
What's french for yuck? Eek. Or ew. Guys, this book is taking the cheese and the melodramatic Hallmark imprint to a whole new level. My God, my teeth hurt from all the saccharine, and I actually feel my pregnancy hormones getting pissed. This is why I shouldn't ever read another romance written by a man, even Nicholas Sparks in his worst moments is less sappy. Yuck. Mister Patterson, please, stay to the creepy mass murderers, thank you.
Matt, a poet from Martha's Vineyard, drops off a diary by Katie's door to help her understand his actions.
His first wife, Suzanne, wrote this diary to their son Nicholas, telling him about her move to Martha's Vineyard, falling in love with his father, and the happiness she found in motherhood.When Suzanne had health problems, a friend told her a story about getting better balance in one's life.
Life is a game in which you are juggling five balls--work, family, health, friends, and integrity.
This book is a love story, and I usually love a good romance, but it was so saccharine-sweet it made it unbelievable!
For me, a love story has to at least give me a good cry for it to be any good and this one left me unemotional.Most of the story is about a woman writing a diary to her newborn son.
But then one day out of the blue Matt disappears with no explanation and Katie is left wondering what went wrong when things were so perfect between the two of them.
Then Katie finds a package on the front door step which turns out to be a diary left by Matt.
And so Katie begins to read the diary and she finds out so much more about Matt than she could ever imagine.
At times whilst reading the diary Katie is overwhelmed with what she reads and learns about Matt's life.
I get why so many people like this - so no shade to all the people who recommended it to me.But it did not work for me at all.I know the diary was supposed to make Suzanne endearing because of how positive, happy, and kind she was, but I ended up hating her and all the other characters in this book before the big reveal.- Nicholas was a super baby.
It honestly didn't feel like the author had a story to tell, it felt like he just wanted to make everyone cry, so he made infallibly perfect cast of characters and then came up with the worst thing he could think of to happen to them, and then he ended the book.
All I know is that it was a love novel written by a man. Yep, this didn't work out one bit. Basically it felt like a book written by one of the guys off of "This Old House." Damn they are good with building things but expressing love and the intricacies of the heart... yeah no. Stick to his crime novels because this one leaves you wanting to kick yourself in the balls for even had read it, if that was possible.
Book on CD narrated by Becky Ann BakerZERO stars (but I'll give Baker 1 star for her narration)Quick, I need a blood glucose test to be sure I haven’t developed diabetes!
Think Nicholas Sparks and Robert James Waller, but nowhere near so good – and that’s saying a lot, as they aren’t all that great.
Mercifully (for the reader) this is a quick read (or listen), so the pain doesn’t last too long.
(view spoiler)[The saddest part is when the dog dies – and that’s not all that sad.
At least the dog didn’t have to put up with these idiots any longer!
(hide spoiler)]
I would say I probably prefer the murder mysteries over the sappy stories but he did a pretty good job with this one.**************************************Amazon.comJames Patterson, author of such bestsellers-turned-blockbuster-movies as Along Came a Spider and Kiss the Girls, exposes his sensitive side in his new novel, Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas.
Katie Wilkinson's boyfriend Matt dumps her; not a total cad, he leaves her a gift, a diary kept by Suzanne, his first wife, for their son Nicholas.
Though painful for Katie, she begins to know and like Suzanne and her infant son Nicholas.
This book is my ALL-TIME favourite book :) I absolutely love it.
James Patterson has done a brilliant job with the story and its presentation.
I've read this book a thousand times.
It makes you think about a 101 things related to life and its twists & turns.
The story helped me understand that life is not always sweet, not always fair and things do not always turn out the way we want them to.
But if we are patient and just keep going - we'll eventually find things that are sweet, that are fair and somewhere along the way true love as well :)
Predictable garbage trying to be deep and passionate. NO! Truly awful writing. Never cared an ounce for the charters. Patterson has written about 800 books. He should really think about quality first. AVOID!
I thought this book was going to be about a dying mother (Suzanne) who writes her son (Nicholas) a diary so he can have something to remember her by, but really what this story is more about is the love story between Suzanne and Matt...and Katie.
There's an art about being subtle in describing characters in a book, but I really hate when a book starts off by letting you know you will be reading about gorgeous people who's only flaw is the drama they will be faced with as the story goes on.--I hate quirkiness that sounds contrived.
One of my pet peeves is "perfect" (and therefore unrelatable) characters.
But Patterson is quite a trickster- making you think that at least one of these characters has a fatal flaw.
Like a model), perfect acting (always thoughtful, always kind, always good-humored, open and loving and talented with good taste), rich, educated, sociable, beloved by all...Sorry.
Having said that, there was one thing in the book that made me feel something- a mother's love for her baby- THAT felt real.
It would have been more real and touching if mother and baby had been human.
I might have become a bit cynical or too realistic, but this book didn't hit me as strongly as the last time. Although it's a quick read and it did make me welled-up to some extent, the overall writing (except for Matt's diary part) felt rushed and inconsistent, the dialogues don't flow naturally at times.I picked up this book for a reading challenge where I read a tear-jerker book, but this time around, it kind of fell flat for me.
And here I thought that LDS fiction was bad.
Wow. This book is what happens when an old guy who writes suspense tries to write a book about a thirty-something woman's love story.
Wow. So bad.
So, so bad.
Words like: ravishing, french braid, blouse and goof (as in Matt and Katie used to ride the circle line as a goof.) have no place in a book written in the 2000's.
The only thing I can think that would come close to rivaling the horrific snivel of this novel would be if James Patterson and Debbie Macomber co-authored a book.
This was the worst book ever!
I hate those sappy sad cancer books, and this was just like it, only this time with childbirth and heart attacks!
Work is a rubber ball that will always bounce back.
The ball of work does not always bounce straight, where you expect it to go, as high or as low as you want it, but it bounces back never the less.
The other 4 balls are made out of glass.
I was very glad to delete this book off my Kindle.
For me, this book was a complete and total "Ew."
In Suzanne's Diary For Nicholas, Katie likes a guy named Matthew who she wants to marry and be with for the rest of her life.
Matthew leaves Katie a diary to read, a diary which will explain secrets to his past, a diary written by Matthew's ex-wife, Suzanne, to their son Nicholas.As Katie spends her time reading the diary she becomes more aware of Matthews past life.
This diary reveals heart breaking secrets to Katie as she reads along and re-lives all the tragic incidents that happen.
Finally Katie comes to realize why Matthew couldn't commit to her.
"Neizmjerno sam voleo Suzan. Nema tih reči kojima bih ti preneo šta znači kad te zadesi sreća da nađeš ženu koju možeš toliko da voliš, a koja ti, što je čudo nad čudima, uzvraća ljubav istom merom. Ona je bila najvelikodušnija osoba koju sam sreo, blagonaklona i osećajna. Ono što mi se kod nje najviše dopadalo jeste što je umela da te sasluša. I duhovita je bila. I sada bi izvalila neku šalu. Siguran sam da bi. Možda to i čini. Smeškaš li se sada, Suzan? Voleo bih da je tako. Verujem da je tako."
"Neizmerno sam voleo Suzan. Nema tih reči kojima bih ti preneo šta znači kad te zadesi sreća da nađeš ženu koju možeš toliko da voliš, a koja ti, što je čudo nad čudima, uzvraća ljubav istom merom."Divnoo <3
The story started with Katie, knowing that she is irrevocably in love with Matt, questionably left her broken hearted.
Why insist on reading it rather than explaining some things in her face?And so me and Katie as the readers started turning the pages.Review and Reflections:The first entry started with simple introductions of Suzanne to his son, Nicholas.
Moving along the diary entries we learned that Suzanne has a successful career, broken up with a career-driven man, changed her whole life and made new beginnings, and eventually fell in love - with a painter and a writer.I also remember my mother's story of The Cat Race.
I disliked this book so much that I created a new bookshelf for it on my account - yuck. While I was reading it (only because it was a book club pick), several adjectives came to mind - sappy, corny, preditible, shallow, uninteresting, flat. I can't think of one good thing to say about this book. It reads like an overly sentimental Hallmark movie, yet without the Hallmark charm. It amazes me that James Patterson, who is a popular author, could write such an undeveloped, grossly sophmoric book. Another reviewer called it vomit-inducting and I have to agree.
:DDDDD--ISN'T IT LUCKY?--THIS IS WHERE MY REVIEW REALLY REALLY STARTS : :)I LOVE LOVE LOVE THIS BOOK!!!!It's heart breaking, heart replenishingLife changingPerspective changingAND EVERY CHANGE IN LIFE AND HOW YOU LOOK AT IT!I NOW HAVE THE STORY OF THE FIVE BALLS to guide me!
I'll get there on the later years of my life.This book actually reminded me of my own story.
The first few pages reminded me of that part of my life and I just wanted to cry but I held myself together because I was at school and I hate crying with a lot of people around.
An emotional roller coaster for sure.This is a love story between a man, wife, son and a bystander named Katie.
She opens the diary takes a plunge into Matt's world that she never knew existed and she fell in love with all the characters and even deeper in love with Matt.I was pleasantly surprised by this book because I read another contemporary by Patterson and did not really like that one.
I loved watching Katie go through this diary and feeling those same things she felt at the same time.
I wont say much more about the characters, I will just recommend you read this book and decide what you think about them yourself.
Book for which you are going to cry but you must to read
