https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/416672.The_Martian_Way_and_Other_Stories
Pausing only to put on my ex-NASA space suit and pack a laptop, a fondue set, some Gruyère and a bag of stale bread, I blasted off in the direction of Jupiter.The trip was going to take a good half hour, so I passed the time reading the interesting book on pre-Ptolemaic astronomy that I'd started the day before.
I landed without incident, hacked off a good piece of ice from one of the frozen seas, then went back to Io to warm it up in my fondue pot.
The story giving the collection its title is -for me- less interesting, being somewhat triumphalist.ESPAÑOL: Esta colección de cuentos y novelas cortas de Asimov contiene 4 títulos publicados en los años cincuenta.
Otra historia, Juventud, que a primera vista parece ser un relato estándar de contacto con extraterrestres, da al final un giro sorprendente, el mismo que utilizó Richard Matheson en un capítulo (Los invasores) de la segunda serie de Dimensión desconocida.
El relato que da título a la colección es, para mí, menos interesante y demasiado triunfalista.
The first story The Martian Way begs the unanswered question: what will happen to the rings of Saturn, its moons, and the planet itself as its ice rings are systematically cut away?
Asimov shows both extremes-the scientists that know nothing and care for nothing but their own fields, and a boy that retains information on data spanning every field but does not understand it.
In this story, Asimov seems to be commenting on a personal complaint in the attitudes of specialists.

One doesn't read Asimov for characterization (For me, the best character he ever created was the robot detective in the "Naked Sun" and "Caves of Steel" novels), prose style, or insight about women (it's a male world in these two novelettes and two short stories).
The short forms are a better fit for his ideas than his late, padded "Foundation" and "Robot" novels.
As a kid, I wasn't an SF nut but I did read some other Asimov works, so it was nice to pick up something sort of from my past but new to me.
There's only 4 stories in this collection and I wasn't impressed by any of them. I wouldn't recommend this for anyone looking to check Asimov's short story work.
Дори калпавият 90-арски превод не може да убие красотата на Маестро Азимов :) Поклон!
Some of his novels and story collections I've ranked five stars as simply amazing.
Asimov can (rarely) pull at the heartstrings (try reading the short story "The Ugly Little Boy") and at times he can create, if not complex, then memorable characters.
Asimov is always science fiction done well, but I wouldn't rank any of the stories here as among the most memorable by him I've read, such as "The Dead Past" or "Nightfall" that just stun me and make me see the world in a whole new way.
For one, it is that rare Asimov story with a character--Mark Annuncio--who is unusual and memorable.
Взагалі, в дитинстві я дуже любила фантастику, але попри непогану домашню бібліотеку і міську бібліотеку біля сьомої школи, куди я в тому віці справно ходила (цікаво, чи вона ще там є), Азімов якось пройшов повз мене.
Взагалі пройшов.
Перше знайомство - аудіокнига у статусі вже директорки книгарні (задооовго після того, як я любила фантастику).
Так мені попався Азімов 1966 року з передмовою Стругацьких, до того всього, судячи зі штампів, колись благополучно поцуплений з бібліотеки.
А от що мене здивувало, це те, як мало є екранізацій на сюжети Азімова.
І це при тому, сюжети, як на мене, дуже кінематографічні.
The title story is one of the first SF stories I ever read. It was anthologized in some 50's collection lent to me by a friend. I never forgot that story. I even retold it to my stepdaughter (6 years old at the time and is in her twenties now) during a relatively long car ride. She retold it as a factual story the next day at school... She has never forgiven me for that.The other stories in this collection are first rate Asimov.
Signet, 1957.This 1957 paperback with the iconic cover of astronauts spacewalking above the rings of Saturn is the first paperback science fiction book I remember purchasing off the rack in a local drugstore.
Asimov has said he is proud of having introduced the idea of spacewalking into science fiction—and maybe even inspiring NASA.
It is always intriguing to read hard science fiction from decades ago because you get real clarity on what was predicted, what missed, and what surpassed.
The picture of we get of Mars is surprisingly accurate, though of course Asimov could not know about how much water we would find locked in Martian soil or buried deep underground.
And it's with that kind of background that some parts of the story make sense - that people don't know stuff.
Otherwise it's a fine story and the characters speak in a very real way.Haven't got much to say about Youth - it was ok.The Deep had a very interesting premise - the kind of really far out there idea that Asimov was good at and which can carry a short story very well.Highly recommended bunch of short stories.
Though not quite as exotic as some of his other short story collections, Isaac Asimov's The Martian Way is still a fun and interesting read.
It has four stories, the titular one involving Mars colonists taking a big risk to secure water.
Youth is about if extraterrestrials visit a planet, The Deep is arguably the most bizarre of the group and involves an underground civilisation, and finally Sucker Bait is a lengthy but interesting look at a expedition visiting a planet.
Asimov's combined talents for interesting science, creative ideas and good writing are all in force here.
Well worth the time.
Asimov'un hikayeleri. Dört hikaye. Dört farklı dünya. İnsanlığın geleceği sadece bilimkurgunun sonsuzluğunda keşfedilebilir. Ölüm ya da yaşam... ya sudan ya tozdan ya zihinden ya da berilyumdan gelebilir. Son nasıl olursa olsun genişleyen evrenin gizemi hep keşfedilmeyi bekleyen yeni bir keşif olarak kalacak.
It’s easy to forget just how innovative Asimov was. Yes The Martian Way is clearly dated in terms of gender roles but the ideas themselves are fascinating and the political play at the end still rings true today. Youth also has a wonderful twist to it and The Deep is one of the few stories I’ve read that tries to imagine a truly alien way of thinking.
These were really good. It's just that these are short stories (and naturally a bit more shallow) and cannot possibly be compared to the 4/5-star-books. I'm definitely planning on reading more by Asimov.
All of them are good and worth reading once. Not a must read for casual science fiction readers. Ardent asimov fans like me who earnestly crave for science fiction short stories that entices, will enjoy this book and shouldn't miss it.
I thought this book was very nice. The first story was pretty fun, the second story surprised me at the end, the third story had a nice message at the end, and the last story poses an interesting thesis that pays off at the end. Overall I found this book very enjoyable.
A nice little collection of four space exploration stories, all different in tone and style, and each unique and clever in its own way.
Four stories from the Golden Age of SF.
4 older stories . Typical Asimov (poor characterization, gimmicks)
The titular novella - The Martian Way - is an astounding piece of science fiction writing that should not be missed by anyone who enjoys the genre (and by many who don't).
Not my usual genre, enjoyable and well written but not enough to want me to carry on reading sci-fi.
Twaine apparently decided it was successful enough that he commissioned Clark to create another world, which Clark called Lagrange, and he convinced Isaac Asimov, Poul Anderson, and James Blish to write the stories.Unfortunately Blish never wrote his story, for whatever reason; so the triplet never got published as such.
Asimov's work is called "Sucker Bait" and can be found in The Martian Way and Other Stories, published in 1955.First, about the other stories in this collection.
Estoy descubriendo que a Asimov le gusta mucho jugar con los puntos de vista y contar historias de ciencia ficción desde la perspectiva de los de fuera, cosa que le da un toque muy interesante y hace que me guste cada vez más este autor.
Valoración de este relato: 3/5.Engañabobos es el último relato de A lo marciano y otras historias y es con el de Juventud el que más me ha gustado.
Si te gusta la ciencia ficción, desde luego; pero si, como yo, nunca antes has leído nada, creo que estos relatos de Asimov son la manera perfecta de empezar.Valoración: ♥♥♥♥
In it, Mark Annuncio, a member of the Mnemonic Service, travels with a mission to explore and colonize a planet that was abandoned by a previous expedition for unknown reasons.
The Mnemonic Service is new and most people don't understand what these living recorders do, but Mark knows that he must absorb as much information on any and every topic as he possibly can with his eidetic memory.
But the other crew members and scientists aboard the ship don't understand why Mark is there and his high curiosity and arrogance put them off.
Smart, funny, suspenseful and entertaining ~ Asimov is the master!
Once I had more time for reading, I whipped through this rather quickly (four short stories), although initially I had a slow start.
I know I've said before that I prefer Asimov's non-fiction to his fiction, and this collection reinforced that.
I've also excused his sexism/misogyny as being just a product of his generation, but regardless, it gets tiring to read about so many wives with shrill voices who don't do what their husbands want (regardless of what planet they're from).
Sur Troie, tous les colons sont morts d'une mystérieuse épidémie, et l'expédition scientifique dépêchée sur place compte sur Mark, un jeune garçon doté de facultés mémorielles extraordinaires, pour comprendre ce qui s'est passé.
Quant à la colonie martienne, elle est en conflit économique avec la terre, qui menace de suspendre son approvisionnement en eau si la situation s'éternise.
Mais les résidents de mars sont résolus à tenir, et prêts à aller chercher de l'eau jusque sur Saturne s'il le faut.
Et lorsque ce ne sont pas les humains qui colonisent l'espace, ce sont les extraterrestres qui visitent la terre, pour ne guère apprécier ce qu'ils y voient...http://www.amazon.fr/voie-martienne-autres-nouvelles/dp/2290332836
A wonderful little bundle with a strong start and ending and lesser stories to fill up.Both ‘The Mar
