https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138428.Kaputt
”Naked Germans are wonderfully defenseless. They are bereft of secrecy. They are no longer frightening. The secret of their strength is not in their skin or in their bones, or in their blood, it is in their uniforms. Their real skin is their uniform. If the peoples of Europe were aware of the flabby, defenseless, and dead nudity concealed by the Feldgrau of the German uniform, the German Army could not frighten even the weakest and most defenseless people.”   Menacing isn’t it? If you have ever
In the course of his new duties, he visited all of the central European countries as he chased down stories and observed with such a discerning eye the very worst of war.
Malaparte’s essentially treacherous mentality enabled him imaginatively and at times even physically to look at conflict simultaneously from the vantage points of opposing camps.”And he shares scenes like this:”The lake looked like a vast sheet of white marble on which rested hundreds upon hundreds of horses’ heads.
Malaparte in uniform, not looking very menacing in THAT hat!I’ve always heard good things about Curzio Malaparte’s writing, but I had no idea how compelling his writing was going to be.
Like him or loathe him (as a supporter of mussolini) the guy could write impeccable well.Kaputt, on the whole is a monstrous and gruesome book, not gruesome in describing the death and carnage of war, but gruesome in that of the people Malaparte spends a lot of his time in the company of.
Among the characters in this book war could be seen as of second importance, most of the time the war doesn't even get mentioned.
His denunciation of Italy and Germany in Kaputt are firm, how much of that comes from his conviction at the time of his writing the book is uncertain.
War is nurtured with death and pain.Suddenly the rain ceased; the moon appeared through a rent in the clouds; it looked like a landscape painted by Chagall: A Jewish Chagall sky, crowded with Jewish angels, with Jewish clouds, with Jewish horses and dogs dangling in their flight over the town.
And under that Jewish Chagall sky, in that Chagall landscape illuminated by a round transparent moon, from the Nicolina, Socola, and Pacurari districts, rose a confused din, a rattle of machine guns and the dull thud of hand grenades.And everything that happens has a morbid aura of irreality… War is delirium of a sick mind.
It is a work that reveals the animal nature humans as each chapter is named after an animal that becomes a leitmotif for the ensuing narrative: horses (representing the past?), mice (representing the Jews and other victims of the Holocaust), dogs (representing the resistance), the reindeer (representing the corruption and meltdown of the European order and aristocracy) and the flies (representing death who took its victims indiscriminately from both sides, from civilians as well as soldiers.)Having read this on the heels of Catch-22, I found the writing of Malaparte more exquisite than Heller's albeit with far less humor.
I've written two prior reviews of this strange, revolting, macabre, beautiful book: some initial musings about fifty pages into it; a singularly outraged review at the midway point when I was all but ready to pack Malaparte and his sleazy manipulations in; and now this—final—one, in which that previous fire of ire has been reduced to a bed of barely smoldering embers, quenched by Malaparte's less morally reprehensible second half of the book and, frankly, his wizardry with the written word, which goes a long way towards appeasing this reader.Although Malaparte earned a living as a polemical political writer and a journalist, he was also a poet, and he merged these differing styles into the narrative tone of Kaputt; the result is writing that is simply gorgeous, rife with sugarplum similes and meteoric metaphors blossoming throughout a series of eerie, haunting vignettes about everyday life under the suzerainty of total war in such places as Warsaw, Cracow, Romania, the Ukraine, Stockholm, Leningrad, Helsinki, Lapland, and, finally, Italy itself.
Turning toward de Foxa he asked him rudely, "How do you say traurig in Spanish?""We say triste, I think," replied de Foxa."Let's try with triste," Mensch said."Trrriiisssteee!" shouted General Dietle."Boom!" howled Mensch.
Only such an artist as he can rule over Poland.""Yes," I said, "a great artist, and it is with this piano that he rules the Polish people.""Oh, you understand so well!" said Frau Brigitte Frank in a voice full of emotion.No, I won't judge._________________ _________________________ _______________And a rhetorical question, once: Can you imagine what Madame Bovary would have been like if she were the daughter of Mussolini?_________________ _________________________ _______________Only someone who has been in prison can write this:The sight of the sea moved me and I began to weep.
And if he amends a conversation, let him do it like this:"See this wall?" said (Governor-General) Frank to me.
Somewhere in the meaty middle of Jacques Rivette's superb film Va Savoir two characters discuss the proper pronunciation of Curzio Malaparte's name.
Apparently one character wasn't sufficiently stressing the Italianate swagger of such.My wife bought me this book per my request.
Kaputt is WWII war journalism from various fronts filtered through Malaparte's artistic eye.
I found it startling.
Herr Vollmann never formerly acknowledged a debt to this work, but it may have slipped his mind.
The scenes from The Winter War provide images on par with Goya.
The interview with the Ustaše may lean towards propaganda.
L’imbeccata per leggere Kaputt, mi è venuta da Benioff quando, alla fine de La città dei ladri ringrazia Harrison Salisbury per il libro "I 900 giorni" e Malaparte per quest’opera che definisce “bizzarra e geniale”, e questi termini mmi hanno incuriosito.
E’ seguendo questi labirinti che mi sono imbattuta in articoli come questo su di lui, scritto da Tarabbia:https://andreatarabbia.wordpress.com/...e da altri , che mi hanno permesso di comprendere come quest’opera non sia un vero reportage, ma un’allegoria.
In a million years, I would not have picked up this obscure book published in the 40s had it not been listed by David Benioff as a source of information for "City of Thieves." In describing the narration of various novels, people will often use the term "unreliable narrator." Malaparte is THE poster child for that!He may likely have been pro-German before realizing that Hitler's defeat was around the corner (when he rewrote portions of the book to denigrate the Germans), but regardless, he was an Italian war correspondent who traveled throughout Europe.
Besonders gelungen sind seine Dialoge mit den befehlshabenden Eliten, die er mit subtiler Ironie vorführt.Malaparte berichtet als Ich-Erzähler von seinen Missionen in Skandinavien, Polen, Deutschland, der Ukraine und dem Balkan, wo er meist bei honorablen Persönlichkeiten zu Gast ist und seinen Gesprächspartnern wiederum Episoden und Anekdoten von seinen Reisen zum Besten gibt.
Tedeschi da cui Malaparte - il cui vero nome era peraltro Kurt Erich Suckert, ed era figlio di un sassone - fugge, di cui ha profondamente paura e della cui profonda e oscura anima ha somma pietà (sarebbe meglio dire umana compassione).E' forse una delle migliori analisi sociologiche di un intero popolo mai scritte su carta, e rimane sempre attuale, ieri come oggi.Malaparte rifugge le spiegazioni al lettore, e molto accenna o lascia intendere o lascia sospeso nell'aria: gli stretti dialoghi inframezzati da numerose battute in francese (la lingua della diplomazia europea, fino alla Seconda Guerra Mondiale) non aiutano.
Which are, that we are all legends in our own minds.So, Malaparte scurries hither and thither across the European map, extolling the virtues of every nation apart from the Germans, singlehandedly saving scores of Jews and other prisoners from a gruesome end some of the time, and recording the macabre details of death and destruction the rest of the time.
The pace is frenetic, the man seemingly ubiquitous, the atrocities a cotillion of Boschean strokes with no end in sight, til we get to a passage concerning the execution of a group of Russian prisoners when the proverbial light bulb finally clicks over my head and I realise Malaparte is a cheat and a phantasmagorist.
Ο Ιταλός συγγραφέας Κουρτζιο Μαλαπαρτε γράφει αυτό το βιβλίο το 1944 μέσα στο πόλεμο και περιγράφει ιστορίες από την περιήγηση του στα μέτωπα του πολέμου και κυρίως στα μετόπισθεν.
Συναντά σε βαρετά δείπνα τον Χανς Φρανκ τον διοικητή της κατεχόμενης Βαρσοβίας, τον Χίμλερ στο Βορρά, περπατάει μέσα στο γκέτο της Βαρσοβίας ανάμεσα στους Εβραίους συντροφιά με έναν Άγγελο του Θανάτου, ακολουθεί το πογκρόμ των Εβραίων στην Μολδαβία, Ουκρανία, παγώνει και επιβιώνει στην μακρινή Φιλανδία, φίλη και σύμμαχο του Άξονα στον Β ΠΠ και καταλήγει στην Ρώμη όπου η ρωμαϊκή αριστοκρατία συνειδητά κάνει πως δεν βλέπει την επερχόμενη ήττα.
με την αλήθεια του πολέμου...
Don't you think he is a superior man?' As I hesitated, he looked fixedly at me, and added with a kindly smile: 'I should like to have your opinion of Hitler.' 'He is almost a man,' I replied.
I mean, not quite a real man.' 'Ach, so,' said Frank.
Yes, Hitler is not quite a real man; he is an Übermensch.' From his end of the table, one of the guests broke in: 'Herr Malaparte has written in one of his books that Hitler is a woman.' It was Himmler's man, the chief of the Gestapo of the government of Poland.
'If he is not quite a real man,' I said, 'why should he not be a woman?
کورتزیو مالاپارته تلخنویسیست خالق تصاویر دهشتزای جنگ که با ظرافت و چیرهدستی بسیار مرگ و وحشت و کشتار را لابهلای تصویرها و توصیفهای بیبدیلاش پنهان میکند. گویی شما را از جنگل خیزرانی عبور میدهد و جزءبهجزء صدای قدمهاتان بر خردهشاخههای نئی، برگهای فروریخته، ستون آفتاب، عطر محیط و هرآنچه به وصف درناید را به استادی تمام در گوشتان زمزمه میکند و همینکه چشمتان به منظره گرم شد و دلباختید از پشت ردیف خیزرانها لکههای سرخ خون و پشتهی سربازهای متلاشی را دیدوندید به رختان میکشد! به آنی از چهرهی موحش جنگ پرده ک
به آنی از چهره‌ی موحش جنگ پرده کنار می‌زند و باز حواس‌تان را به جنگل و پرنده‌های کوچک رنگ‌به‌رنگ برمی‌گرداند.با اینکه بسیاری وقت‌ها با نگاهی گذرا مقدمه‌ها را نادیده می‌انگارم اما از دست دادن مقدمه‌ی مالاپارته بر کتاب «قربانی» یا همان «کاپوت» خسرانی عظیم بود!
آخ که می‌توانم ساعت‌ها با شور تمام از کلمه‌های مالاپارته حرف بزنم و تک‌تک‌تان را مشتاق خواندنِ این «سلین» زهرنویسِ ایتالیایی کنم!فصل اول کتاب را با اسب‌های تیوولی سرمی‌گیرد؛ راوی به پنجره‌ای چشم چسبانده که از مِه مکدر است.
اسب‌ها به دریا می‌زنند و یال‌های خیس را موج می‌دهند بر انحنای تن و صدای شیهه‌شان فصل اول کتاب را پرمی‌کند.بعدتر از تجسد بوی عفن مادیانی مرده می‌گوید که در حال اضمحلال است.
Something like nothing I have ever read before. What a profoundly beautiful, macabre, disturbing, hilarious, incredible work. This is the real magical realism, or rather – magical brutalism.
Well I made the mistake of reading other reviews before beginning my own and this one is so good, says much of what I wanted to say, and is even a bit more (better!) critical that I would have been, I can't help but link to it/il miglior fabbro: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...As for my own two cents, yeah, there's something about the first person narrator here (in a kind of WWII preface to Ganzo journalism, in which a baroque--one reviewer calls it Proustian and references to Proust do abound in Kaputt--anti-journalistic prose style collides with scenes that probably aren't exactly what happened either that irks and makes one feel that the author is condescending, pretentious, and removed, should be doing more than just going along with this horrible, horrible program that came to be known as World War II or the attempted takeover of Europe by the fascist ideology.What I think we have here is a radical version that Modernist attempt to write fiction that is truer than subjective reality (realism) by collapsing time through narrative and giving shape to exemplary details/events).
I love not knowing what to expect from a book, not knowing the core setting or plot, or if there is one, not knowing anyone who’s read it, and having had no one either recommend it or wag a warning finger against it. It’s marvelous to enter a book unbiased. I knew Kaputt was about WWII, and took a cue from the repugnant cover image, the red-fleshy gleam of fake teeth and gums. At least their tidiness makes one assume they’re fake. I say the image is “repugnant” but I love the cover. Beaming am
I knew Kaputt was about WWII, and took a cue from the repugnant cover image, the red-fleshy gleam of fake teeth and gums.
I won’t forget the ghostly horses, the war dogs, and the reindeer, whose toes click like castanets when they run, “an interminable procession of Andalusian dancers marching within the glinting sheath of the frozen nocturnal sun.”Malaparte was an Italian journalist dispatched in an official capacity to the various Axis fronts, where he hobnobbed with war criminals and sour military men, European aristocracy, Jews, sex slaves, destitute Neapolitans, and soldiers who exercise a small gesture of defiance by shouting “Ein Liter!” rather than “Heil Hitler.” Malaparte, who loved the ‘manliness’ of war, began Kaputt thinking Germany would win, the editor tells us, and went back to doctor the text when it appeared that might not happen.
Anche perché hai letto nella sua stessa prefazione: "E sia ben chiaro che io preferisco questa Europa kaputt all'Europa d'ieri, e a quella di venti, di trent'anni orsono.
Prova ne sia, infine, l'ultimo, potente, indimenticabile capitolo, che sembra già far parte de "La pelle", dove del diplomatico brillante resta solo l'uomo lacero, sporco, affamato, puzzolente, che a Napoli, reduce dalla sua ultima vacanza a Regina Coeli, cerca di imbarcarsi per Capri e assiste all'ultima scena dell'Inferno di Kaputt.
Malaparte is an interesting guy. His residence was used in Jean-Luc Godard's "Contempt" and he was a Fascist as a young man but ended up as a Marxist. During the war years he covered the war via an Italian press and had the opportunity to hang out with top Nazis. And this is the interesting part of "Kaputt" where he dines and is entertained by top-level Nazi command. You can smell the evil off the dinner plate.
از بهترین کتابهایی که راجع به جنگ جهانی دوم خوندم. فرق اساسیش با بقیهی کتابهای مربوط این بود که آقای مالاپارته جزو جبهه ایتالیاست و پس کتاب، جزو معدود کتابهایی میشه که از نقطه نظر متفقین نیست و ما اون سمت جبهه رو هم میبینیم. هر چند که نویسنده پنهان و گاهی آشکارا بر ضد فاشیستهاست.کتاب تصاویر عجیب، ترسناک و در عین حال زیبایی از اتفاقات جنگ ساخته که باور کنید هیچ وقت از ذهنتون پاک نمیشه.
از بهترین‌ کتاب‌هایی که راجع به جنگ جهانی دوم خوندم. فرق اساسیش با بقیه‌ی کتاب‌های مربوط این بود که آقای مالاپارته جزو جبهه ایتالیاست و پس کتاب، جزو معدود کتاب‌هایی می‌شه که از نقطه نظر متفقین نیست و ما اون سمت جبهه رو هم می‌بینیم. هر چند که نویسنده پنهان و گاهی آشکارا بر ضد فاشیست‌هاست.کتاب تصاویر عجیب، ترسناک و در عین حال زیبایی از اتفاقات جنگ ساخته که باور کنید هیچ وقت از ذهنتون پاک نمی‌شه.
خیلی بین ۴ ستاره یا ۵ ستاره فکر کردم و آخرش پنج دادم.
نه چون کل کتاب شگفتانگیز بود، چون اون قسمتهاییش که میخکوبم کرده بود واقعا انقدر خوب بود که قسمتهای ضعیفتر رو بیاهمیت کنه.
توصیفات کتاب فوقالعاده است و تصویرسازیش انقدر زنده است که بعضی تصویرهاش عین عکسهای صحنهپردازی شده تو سرم ساخته شدهان.
کل روایت هم با روایتهای معمولی که در مورد جنگ خونده بودم فرق میکرد و یگانه بود.کتاب در خفا نوشته شده و چند جا مخفی شده تا موسولینی سقوط کرده و بعد تکه تکه رسیده به ایتالیا که چاپ بشه، داستان پشت چاپ شدنش هم
نه چون کل کتاب شگفت‌انگیز بود، چون اون قسمت‌هایی‌ش که میخکوبم کرده بود واقعا انقدر خوب بود که قسمت‌های ضعیف‌تر رو بی‌اهمیت کنه.
توصیفات کتاب فوق‌العاده است و تصویرسازی‌ش انقدر زنده است که بعضی تصویرهاش عین عکس‌های صحنه‌پردازی شده تو سرم ساخته شده‌ان.
کل روایت هم با روایت‌های معمولی که در مورد جنگ خونده بودم فرق می‌کرد و یگانه بود.کتاب در خفا نوشته شده و چند جا مخفی شده تا موسولینی سقوط کرده و بعد تکه تکه رسیده به ایتالیا که چاپ بشه، داستان پشت چاپ شدنش هم جزئی از داستان خود کتابه به نظرم و بی‌نظیره.
تنها ایراد اینه که ۴۸ هزار تومنه (نسخه‌ی نشر ماهی که سال ۹۴ چاپ شده).
What amazes me about Malaparte is the beauty of his prose despite the fact that he's chronicling some of history's most horrifying events. Watching "Amarcord" concurrently further cements my belief that Eye-talians sure have a gift for this ironic balance.
Perché alla fine hanno vinto le mosche.  cit. Centellinato per due anni, leggendo un paio di pagine al giorno (e poi rileggendole). Ma adesso è finito. sigh.
۵٣١ صفحه تصویر، انگار که مالاپارته با کلمات نقاشی کرده باشد، همه چیز آن قدر با جزییات توصیف شده که خواننده کلمه و جمله نمیخواند، فقط تصاویر را پشت سر هم میبیند.
۵٣١ صفحه تصویر، انگار که مالاپارته با کلمات نقاشی کرده باشد، همه چیز آن قدر با جزییات توصیف شده که خواننده کلمه و جمله نمی‌خواند، فقط تصاویر را پشت سر هم می‌بیند.
Again, it occurred to me that one of his points may be that the characters he converses with around the dinner table and in tight social groups, brimming drink in hand, are to be seen as dead as the tumbled, hopeless remains he encounters near the front.A clue is the title's meaning.
And the meaning of history to Malaparte is that we're all Siegfrieds and will one day all become kaputt.
To be sure The Skin is American war and death--and the idea of kaputt--too, but Malaparte doesn't love it like he loves it on the Eastern Front.
El libro fue escrito entre 1941 y 1943 en plena Guerra Mundial, y sorprende que una obra de casi 75 años tenga una estructura narrativa tan moderna y un uso del lenguaje que en cada capítulo construye escenas, al estilo cinematográfico.Kaputt no tiene propiamente una trama o lo que en los colegios llaman "personajes principales" y "personajes secundarios".
Al contrario, esa polifonía ayuda a entender la multiculturalidad europea en medio de una guerra que, como dice Malaparte en algún capítulo, no se sabe quién va a ganar pero en todo caso ya perdieron Polonia e Italia.
Fabulous tales from the dark side of human nature... and in the same kind of overblown prose as that description, for the most part. The first chapter's hard to get through if you're not into adjectives, which I'm not. But after that the set pieces start to cohere pretty well, and the author's evident self-loathing becomes more and more justifiable. Not sure I'll ever forget the frozen horses, the King of Poland, or the young prostitutes.
Oh Jesus. I just don't know. This book was like a Nazi/ghetto/communist acid trip. You can't tell which parts are true and because you can't tell, every sentence just fills you with horror and confusion. Mostly confusion. I came away from it thinking, "Wow, I kind of want to kick Malaparte right in his fucking head."
به خاطر محمد قاضي كتاب رو دست گرفتم و خوشحالم كه به انتخابش اعتماد كردم. هر فصل كتاب به نام حيوانات نامگذاري شده: اسبها، موشها، سگها، گوزنها، مگسها و در هر فصل بخشي از جبهه و پشت جبهه جنگ جهاني دوم توصيف شده و در خلال قصهگويي مالاپارته متوجه پيوند دردناك اسم حيوانات با ماجراهاي هر فصل ميشويد. توصيفهاي درخشان، ترجمه دلنشين و اندوه بسيار
به خاطر محمد قاضي كتاب رو دست گرفتم و خوشحالم كه به انتخابش اعتماد كردم. هر فصل كتاب به نام حيوانات نام‌گذاري شده: اسب‌ها، موش‌ها، سگ‌ها، گوزن‌ها، مگس‌ها و در هر فصل بخشي از جبهه و پشت جبهه جنگ جهاني دوم توصيف شده و در خلال قصه‌گويي مالاپارته متوجه پيوند دردناك اسم حيوانات با ماجراهاي هر فصل مي‌شويد. توصيف‌هاي درخشان، ترجمه دلنشين و اندوه بسيار
