https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13451.Storm_of_the_Century
"Give me what I want and I will go away." The calm and collected Town Constable of Maine's Little Tall Island, Mike Anderson, is preparing for the Big One with half the town in his store clearing the shelves when news of a brutal murder reaches him....and the evil stranger, well....he's still at the scene......waiting.Now everyone knows the island has seen no murders since Dolores Claiborne  took out her disgusting husband (never proven) years ago, so shock and fear has spread like wildfire.
I don't know why I'm saying that like it's not obvious, but for some reason, I just felt like a screenplay would feel...
It was like seeing everything in my head as the movie went along, which is quite possibly the point, although a lot of King's books read like movies.
Maybe it was just the format - I'm so used to his novels and the personal feel of them that this felt like King dictating to someone else and that person writing the words in their odd and unfamiliar handwriting.
What I liked most of this book was the ending, and in the interest of not spoiling anything, you'll just have to read for yourself...
Excelentísimo libro.
Un pueblo de la isla Little Tall en Maine, sufre una de las peores tormentas de su historia, la denominada "tormenta del siglo".
Pero esto no será lo único que padecerán, sino algo peor está de camino, un ser misterioso y terrorífico que pondrá el pueblo de cabeza.
Un libro fascinante que posee personajes increíbles, su narrativa me resultó ágil y que engancha desde el primer momento, quizá algunos se sientan confundidos ya que está escrito en formato de guion de televisión, pero aseguro que se acostumbra muy rápido y se disfruta una lectura exquisita.Video reseña en mi canal: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VaBoZ...
It was really interesting to picture the different scenes and characters, i mean i can usually picture in my head scenes when reading a book, but in this one the interesting thing was how the author made me Focus on certain details that i might have missed.With every scene; i can imagine from what angle to see it, if i had to focus on a specific character, and it was great!
The kind of story only Mr King can tell!Trapped on an island, during the worst storm "the storm of the century"; with a murderer from a different kind!
and most important, what does he want??The worst part starts when all he says is "Give me what i want and i'll go away"!!A great book that i enjoyed and really recommend to my friends :)
I think there is a certain art to reading plays-it's jarringly different from reading a straight up prose novel.
I have read my share over the years but wow has it been a long time.
Storm of the Century is technically a teleplay, but let's not split hairs.
This book was good and certainly packs a wallop but I found the play format to be a distraction and hindrance rather than a boon.
Mr. King can surely write about some painful things-I just think this book might have had more punch if it had been presented as a regular novel instead.
It was kinda hard reading in screenplay format. I've ordered the movie.I'd have liked it better written as a novel.
"Родените в похот, станете на прах.Да дойдат при мене родените в грях."С две-три думи повече:http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2016/09/...
Dated genre for the most; modern rational thinking means devil stories are null and void. King's new direction works better for me.
-Weird/Not my thing.
Although the screenplay format was at times rather awkward to read though, this is still a riveting story and probably some of King's better work.
Кинг сам пише във въведението си, че прекрасната идея за тази история му хрумва като роман за телевизията - сценарий.
Сценарият веднага е екранизиран (1999 - Бурята на века - 3 серии по 91 минути) и филмът се води като най-добрата екранизация по Кинг (може би след Шоушенк).След големия успех на филма, Кинг решава да превърне сценария все пак в новела (роман) или казано по друг начин - да го издаде.
Освен всичко този роман може да служи и като учебник и пример за това как се пише сценарий.
February, 1989; Little Tall Island, MaineIt's all the weathercasters can talk about - the Storm of the Century.
The tiny island community of Little Tall Island is ready.
They have no way of knowing that evil is about to break through, an evil that will take and take, an evil that will change them all.As usual, King delivers a wonderful thriller.
From the start, you know things aren't going to go well for Little Tall.
I was riveted until the end, guessing and wondering how things would turn out.This one was a bit different to read, as it is a Screenplay.
this is a cash-and-carry world, pay as you go." the story is about island folks from the place called Little Tall.
they get snowed in when an old lady gets murdered and the killer gets locked up.
but from behind locked bars the man possesses everyone who has some dirty little secret.
and its said thorough multiple times that island folks can keep their secret between themselves really well.
the people who are too stubborn to confess even when theyve been told in detail what theyve done, die one by one and theres one thing the man wants in exchange to leave them alone and not wipe out seemingly the little town one by one.
"Un libro diferente a lo que estamos acostumbrados, pues realmente es un guión de televisión, que nos narra como los habitantes de una isla se ven aislados por una tormenta y encima deben hacer frente a la aparición de un hombre misterioso que amenaza las vidas de todos ellos.
Con una estructura que hace un poco confusa la lectura al principio, el relato va atrapando al lector y mostrando los estragos que pueden causar ciertos sucesos en las actitudes de la gente y como quien menos te lo esperas, esconde secretos que no imaginas.
No sé por qué me hice esto. No suelo leer guiones, pero de algún modo me ayudó a engancharme el hecho de que el ritmo sea tan rápido. Otra cosa es que esta historia se pasa de malvadilla, como por el último cuarto estaba que quería morirme por lo que veía venir. No lean esto si quieren ser felices.
Wow... definitivamente King lo escribío que final, muy bueeeeeeno!
Excelente narración, sólo le juega en contra la forma de.guión en que está planteado. Omitiendo eso e imaginándose la historia como novela, excelente.
Quando ce ne bisogno, noi facciamo squadra.
E sappiamo mantenere un segreto quando è necessario.
E la gente dell’isola li conserva ancora".Non è un romanzo vero e proprio ma è soltanto la sceneggiatura dell'omonima mini serie TV.
e, per giunta, manca anche il lieto fine!Da segnalare che la location del romanzo è la stessa di "Dolores Claiborne" (in un paio di passaggi vengono anche citati sia lei che l'omicidio del marito da lei compiuto) e che, in alcuni punti, il malvagio Linoge mi ha ricordato moltissimo il Randall Flagg della saga della "Torre Nera" e di altri romanzi di King.[https://rosatoeu.blogspot.com/2018/12...]
Dat vond ik nogal een teleurstelling, het leek me niets om zo'n scenario te lezen.
Daar kom ik nu op terug; het leest heel vlot, de spanning zat er goed in, door de beschrijvingen van de omgeving kon je je die goed inbeelden.
Tussen de dialogen door zag je ook iets terug van King zelf, een soort persoonlijke opmerkingen over de gebeurtenissen.
In een normale roman is de auteur natuurlijk nooit zo aanwezig, dus ik vond dit leuk voor de afwisseling.
Al met al een leuke ervaring om eens een scenario te lezen.
The book in of its self was a very good with a lot of character development as the book went on, also the book had a very “complex” story with a lot underlying tones and ideas, but i wouldn’t call this book Stephen Kings best book especially when there are other books like the shining or it.
One redeeming quality of the book though is the character development given to side characters, not a lot of books or tv shows seem to do that and I liked how Stephen King did it.
Muy, muy, muy bueno. No me esperaba ese final, guardé hasta el último momentos las esperanzas, la batalla, una caída de máscara... Y no. Me devastó.Siento que quiero mucho saber más sobre Linoge. Más allá de su papel de villano, quiero entender mejor quién era, qué era en concreto lo que hacía...Me encantó el formato película. Pude visualizar cada plano y cada escena a la perfección.¡Me encantó!
"Дайте ми това, което искам, и ще ви оставя на мира."Чудесно беше отново да се срещна с Линож, този път в сценария. Още по-хубавото е, че бях забравила някои подробности от историята. Но въпреки че помнех почти всичко, пак бях на тръни в напрегнатите моменти.Ето едно ревю от друг книгоядец: http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2016/09/...
Ik was het niet gewoon om een boek te lezen dat geschreven was in een filmscenario stijl.
Dit was de eerste keer dat ik zo een soort boek las, maar ook al was het in het begin moeilijk en raar om te lezen, tegen de tijd dat ik het gewoon was om die stijl te zien, was het leuk om zo te lezen.
Het was het kind van de ene man die niet akkoord ging.
En ook al lijkt dit een klein minpuntje, ik vond het spijtig want ik vond het boek tot dan heel goed en het einde was voor mij een beetje teleurstellend.
i thought that it was an amazing book!!!!!
I loved this, I just think it would have been so much better as a novel!
(ETA movie review at the end.) I started this book last night, which was perfect timing: A storm was coming in and the wind outside was insane.
And I remembered that this really is Pittsburgh and the only Storm of the Century that occurs here is when the Baltimore Ravens are in town against the Steelers.I always appreciate reading King, even if his stories don't bedazzle me every time, or even if they're so similar that even I have to scoff at times; but reading him is always sort of like coming home for me.
които са си основното в един подобен труд.Но имайте предвид: това е сценарий от Стивън Кинг, при това обработен, за да притежава изчерпателността на роман.
Така че няма да четете драми като в училище (знам, че за много хора това е плашещо дори повече от сцените на визуално насилие в същата тази книга).
Когато той пише сценарий, всички други са много по-склонни да се съобразят, отколкото ако го прави някой друг.За много сигурно е учудващо, но това си е напълно пълноценна книга - роман в нестандартен вид....
така че ако си най-големият злодей и искаш незабелязано да си намериш някой, който те харесва дотолкова, че...
To some people this may be a typical Stephen King story but there is something really profound and deeply disturbing about the ending.
Andre Linoge is an evil, inhuman creature who beats an old woman to death and seems to know everything about everyone in this entire small town.
There are some corny moments here like the kids flying with Linoge like Peter Pan in the sky but when he takes over people's bodies and actions, it makes for some gruesome moments.
How he thinks about telling his ex-wife that he saw their son but how in the light of day he knows better.
Al principio me preocupaba la forma en que estaba escrito, tipo guión de película porque creía que me podría cortar un poco asimilar su lectura, pero con sólo llevar 10 ó 15 páginas leída te acostumbras.
Lo bueno de estar escrito tipo guión es que te lo pone todo de manera que lo visualizas al instante, como si lo estuvieses viendo de el momento, e incluso parece hasta más emocionante.
He echado un poco de menos esa descripción, caracterización y definición de todos sus personajes y de la historia de sus vidas, ya ahí veces que aparecían personajes que en ese momento no recordaba muy bien al no recordar su historia.
