https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4758218-tales-of-chinatown
Knox explained - "I see no reason in the nature of things why a Chinaman should spoil a detective story.
But as a matter of fact, if you are turning over the pages of an unknown romance in a bookstore, and come across some mention of the narrow, slit-like eyes of Chin Loo, avoid that story; it is bad."I can understand what Knox was talking about after reading this book.
There is a high level of racism in the book, but reading it today makes it appear more like a satire about racist attitudes than racism itself.
And that's how I read this book, giving Rohmer full benefit of doubt.
I feel that if the story was written today, it could be changed to dealing with the yakuza or triads and no one would blink an eye at it.Rest of review (and rating) to follow.Now that I have finished, I can honestly say that a lot of the appeal of these stories is getting a glimpse of a different time and the attitudes that were held at that time.
So I would say these are decent stories that are entertaining and give the readers a glimpse into an earlier time.
A time that was less politically correct, drugs were seen differently, and police work was a different process.
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.Tales of Chinatown is a short story collection with all of them set in London’s Chinatown (Limehouse in the day they were written) more or less.
I like reading old stories.
There are different assumptions regarding what should be common knowledge to the reader, different interactions between men and women, Asians and English, that all play a part in these Sax Rohmer stories.
He's better known for the Fu Manchu tales, but I was in a short-story mood when I found Tales of Chinatown as a free Kindle Download.
Some of the stories share a few threads here and there, but each has a "gotcha" element, one that even when you think you've figured it out, still pokes you with a "gotcha" at the last.
Today it is squeezed into a pocket of sleazy Soho next to glitzy cinemas and intellectual cafés but when these stories were written it was in Limehouse, a few hundred yards up the river from where I now live and a mile or two from where my grandparents lived.
There are still many Chinese here but now they live in luxury new flats, which the developers market in China because native Londoners prefer to live in draughty Victorian houses with original features like chimneys, fireplaces and sash windows.
Set in pretty much the same London (a couple decades later) as Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes tales, the police and criminals of Romer’s Chinatown present an interesting contrast.
Think your typical police procedural from television, taken back a hundred years, and you pretty much have these stories — entertaining enough, and the setting of the Limehouse Chinatown section adds a dash of the exotic.On the subject of the ‘exotic,’ it should be noted that there is a certain amount of casual racism.
Despite that and some unevenness in the quality (a couple of gems and a good bit of dross), ‘Tales of Chinatown’ is, overall, an entertaining enough read if one has some time to kill.
"Sometimes a furtive shadow would move out of some black gully and fade into a dimly seen doorway in a manner peculiarly unpleasant and Asiatic."Funny, but only because I'm not Chinese, I'm afraid.
If I were, I'd be cringing.
(Although the author did have a go at my ethnicity too; apparently I'm also quite degenerate!
Not bad.) But passages like this:"The long, magnetic eyes, the handsome, clear-cut features, above all, that slow and alluring smile, appealed to the husband of the wilful Pat rather as evidences of Oriental, half-effeminate devilry than as passports to decent society."...passages like this make me happy in my pants!
A collection of short stories that take place in London's Chinatown, mostly murder mysteries. As a free download, I can't complain because it was a free download for my Kindle. They were written a long time ago, making it a bit easier to overlook the blatant racial stereotyping of many nationalities. Each story was short enough to enjoy but also long enough to allow its characters to develop. Some of the stories had the same characters so it was almost as if I had been reading about "old friends."
A selection of 10 Rohmer stories, more or less set in London's Chinatown. The first two feature one of Rohmer's recurring characters detective "Red" Kerry, who had appeared in "Dope" and would go on to appear in "Yellow Shadows," but there's no sign of Fu Manchu, even in a un-billed guest appearance! The best story by far and probably the best Rohmer ever wrote (bringing the book up from a 3 to a 4 star) is "Tcheriapin."
I am addicted to these books! So different from modern fare which rarely manage to avoid gratuitous sex, profanity, and obscenity. A refreshing change of pace and delightful reading.
Written in the 1920's these group of short stories employ every kind of stereotype imaginable.
Any women of note are incredibly beautiful and naive victims, and if they are of Asian extraction then they are unfathomably gorgeous.
Full blooded Asian women do not bear mentioning.
The astute reader will recognize that the English do not escape the stereotyping.
The stories themselves are entertaining though the short story format limits the amount of mystery in the murder mysteries.
Almost all take place in the Limehouse area of London (Chinatown) and all but the last few are police/P.I. mysteries, usually murders.
I enjoyed Tales of Chinatown, fun pulp stories set in London's Chinatown Limehouse. Mysterious people, nefarious plots, stolen jewels. It's not PC but hey it was written in the 20's. If you like pulp stories I think you will enjoy Tales of Chinatown. It was wrote by the creator of Fu Manchu.
Tales of Limehouse and the chinese quarter in Edwardian England - very much a product of its time.
read some time in 1989
Short stories good book for a story before bed.
I didn't like the way this book started, but it got better as I read it. It has some dull parts, but it's ok on the whole.
Interesting read. Not for the politically correct. Set in Chinatown part of London in the early 20th century. Anthology of little mysteries as well as stories of the strange. Enjoyed reading it.
