https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/561413.The_Tree_Of_Man
The feeling of burying one’s hand in the fertile soil of a prosperous land.The sweet smell of a room when there is a newborn baby.The fear of losing a dear child, replaced by an unrecognizable man.The irresistible pull of two souls meeting amidst the flames in a staircase on fire.The lush of a hungry body screaming out shamelessly when it should have been contented with chaste affection.The revelation of clasping a gaunt hand that has lost the warmth of life pulsating in it.Decades go by, and the Parkers witness landscapes change, eroded by the inclemencies of weather, neighbors come and go, children grow up into strangers who disappoint, while their individualities remain still, intact, anchored to the early memories of fresh expectations, every soul an island afloat in the ocean of time and chance.In White’s world, life is presented as this continuous flow of entangled facts and emotions that defies all plans and expectations, but at the same time he reveals that life’s innermost best-kept secret resides in the simplicity of things.
“Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone?And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.” Ecclesiastes 4:11-12This is the law humans abide by since the ancient time…The Tree of Man is a life story of unrefined, down-to-earth people, a profound tale about the salt of the earth.The clearing was wide open.
Their mystery of purpose had found the solution to the mystery of silence.Patrick White is a very subtle psychologist and he knows every little corner of human soul.
The one thing that did strike me as different though were the odd turns of phrase, such as “read the lines in his face” when Amy was looking at her husband.Whatever book I’ve read, there’s always a section that stays with me, and in this case it just reminded me of myself:“ ‘All those letters we wrote, he said, ‘we shall be rid of all that.
The best thing about this book is the amazing way the author can conjure up the feel of the Australian outback in words.
I enjoyed the way the story progressed slowly and steadily with just the small excitements of a quite normal life.
Occasionally I found Amy a little annoying and I was irritated by the authors use of 'the man' and 'the woman' instead of using their names.
This is my first book by Patrick White and I can understand now why he is held up as a major writer.
The Tree of Man certainly presents a convincing case for literary genius, however it also caused me to wonder about White’s relevance in modern Australia.The Tree of Man traces the life of Stan Parker who, along with his wife, Amy Parker, settle on a patch of land close to Sydney in the first few years of the twentieth century.
White’s style isn’t exactly the stream of consciousness of the modernists, rather he colours the narrative with the characters subjective thoughts and feelings; creating a kind of allusive narrative impressionism that imbues the mundane aspects of Stan and Amy’s everyday lives with a very Australian mysticism.
'(...) por comparação com outras obras (...)' escrevia ontem o João Reis numa crítica ao último livro que leu. a citação aparece truncada mas serve-me de referência aqui por ser uma questão que me assalta praticamente sempre que classifico livros com estrelas. livros há, como é o caso deste, que me fazem repensar, ainda que momentaneamente, todas as (cinco) estrelas que atribuí até hoje. este é, acredito, a obra-prima absoluta de Patrick White. gostei ainda mais dele e achei-o um furo acima de Voss, obra que já tinha adorado.
You know, the one that encapsulates your whole philosophical, spiritual, intellectual outlook on life?
If you build high expectations then, of course, other people won't share those with you, or you will be overplaying it, or they will have a different outlook on life and all things 'spiritual' and therefore hate everything about it.
After reading the sensational David Marr biography, I love him a little bit more.
On one hand it tells the story of Stan and Amy Parker, their life in the bush, a bush that, by the end of the novel, becomes an outer Sydney suburb.
My favourite book. I used to read it maybe once a year, to experience the sense of Australian that the reading invokes. It's real linguistic magic, that Patrick White does - he can completely re-create a world, you can see it, smell it, feel it, hear it!, just using his selection and arrangement of words on the page.
I read this book very slowly. I wanted to take in its environment and atmosphere. I loved  Riders in the Chariot and now my Aussie roots have deepened into the soil of 'The Tree of Man'. I will miss my mornings with the Parkers.
Thus, reading this book for me was not unlike living, though I have not experienced a pioneer life of backbreaking labor.Life also contains periods of emotional and psychological upheaval that bring to the forefront the dark side of any personality.
When Stan and particularly Amy experience such periods the writing plumbs that darkness with an unflinching gaze.
At those points in the novel, I felt like Joyce Carol Oates had grabbed the pen.It was a mixed reading experience made up of wonder, tedium, and moments of personal enlightenment.
A poetic tribute to man and nature.
The Tree of Man succeeds in capturing the opening of the frontier in Australia.
The story is a universal one, even so White succeeds in creating individual characters, particularly Stan Parker, for whom you develop feeling.
That combined with the poetic descriptions of nature gave the characters life.
Here is an example of the author's poetic limning of nature's rainstorm:"The lightning, which could have struck open basalt, had, it seemed, the power to open souls.
As the rain sluiced his lands, and the fork of the lightning entered the crests of his trees.
It is a beautiful saga of man and nature.
Patrick White là một tác giả có phần khó đọc, không chỉ vì những ý tưởng và vấn đề độc đáo của ông mà có lẽ còn vì sự kết hợp khác thường giữa phẩm chất sử thi với phẩm chất thơ ca ở ông.
Trong nghệ thuật tự sự lớn lao của mình ông sử dụng một ngôn ngữ cực kỳ súc tích, một nghệ thuật ngôn từ được chăm chút đến từng chi tiết và thường xuyên nhắm tới hiệu quả biểu đạt tối đa, ngày càng mãnh liệt không ngừng nghỉ hoặc thấu suốt một cách tinh tế.
Contains truth, beauty and genius. Off-the-charts great writing lifts unprepossessing subject matter into the realm of pure art. Explores how each of us remains essentially alone, but indelibly connected. Will invigorate the reader and inspire the writer.
just wrapped up a long haul with this thing.
this was my first patrick white novel (know a few of his plays) and im afraid im going to have to rip in to the rest of the CATALOGUE now.
this book is pretty simple in premise.
a couple meet, get married and head out to the country to build a life.
they make a home, struggle for a couple of kids, and do their best to provide and nourish inside and outside the place.
the million moments between sips of milky tea, the big dreams that never leave small kitchens, the yearning to connect and stay connected in long love.
And then a few months ago I found a beautiful first edition in an Op Shop - a bit tatty but gorgeous fifties cover - and dared myself to read it all these years later.
It took me three weeks to read - sometimes I made myself put the book down so I could digest the profound and beautiful writing.
It's an account of Stan and Amy's lives who were part of the contingent of early white settlers of the Australian bush.
To an outsider, their lives would appear small and confined but White insists we share their loneliness, their sufferings and to quote from Alice Munro - 'their radiant, vanishing consolations'.
Its difficult to write about the simple things in life.
White in "The Tree Of Man" leads you on a journey of events that are somewhat ordinary from the outside.
Surrounded by change.
Yet as is often the case in White's novels it is the change from within that renders his stories outstanding.
Stan Parker, an ordinary man from the outside, but a complex character from within.
For mine this novel is about life and change in its purest format.
A novel that brings us the story of an ordinary man, in an extraordinary manner.
The Tree Of Man is the life story of Stan Parker and his wife, Amy, from their isolated beginnings and through fires, storms and floods in their personal lives and the weather. Patrick White writes beautifully which is why even though this story is slow-paced,long, and without a strong plot, it is worth the read.
Unforgettable in its compassionate portrayal of a good man brought to his knees by marriage and fatherhood. Superb writing in a class of its own. why is Patrick White so out of fashion?
The simplicity of true grandeur found in tree transcends in the human being who live their life in the proximity of nature.
The Author has rationalized Amy’s act of adultery by concluding “Sometimes her simplicity would blaze electrically.”Stan also makes a brief encounter with passion when he rescues Madeleine from fire.
Madeline once admires the crude furniture in the house of Stan for it had reality.For anything that is grand and simple, even the end is a new beginning.
The grandson of Stan wants to write a poem of life, of what he did not know, but knew.
The plodding, journeying pace of the prose is intentional, a metaphor for life in australia in the early 20th century, but intentional or not, and no matter how well written a book is (and again I must reiterate, this is perfect) storytelling is not a component that can be forgotten.
This is where White excels, especially when it comes to Stan and Amy. Two lives that never seem to touch, both yearning for something, from the very start to the end, lives underpinned by religion and the doomed pursuit of some meaning to their lives.
Through the fires, storms and all of it, the monotonous perfection of the literature couldn't compensate for characters that although were lived in, never felt alive.
Although I cannot fault this book I just didn't like it!
I am doing this book as part of an English unit in college and although I can see why it was included I personally didn't like it!
This is only purely on the fact that I read books as a form of escapism and I like to be engrossed in a novel and forget about my mundane life!
In this book you can't because at the end of the day it is a book about a life just a plain old life where stuff happens.
The end.
This was on my reading list for Year 12 and it provided that ahha moment in the line he found god in a gobble of spit - with that line I suddenly saw how writing can take you to places, ideas and thoughts that I never thought possible ...
This is a book that some may consider great art, but I'll just go with: 480 pages and no plot.Stan Parker lives, marries, has a boy and a girl, doesn't really get to know anyone, and dies. I was relieved when he did the latter.Definitely not recommendable.
The Tree of Man, first published in 1956, is the story of Stan Parker and his wife Amy, who married and settled on a rural property in New South Wales in the early part of the 20th century.Stan Parker is a dour, practical man, whose verbal communications are limited, but who is steadfast and dependable.Amy, his wife, adapts to a life of relative isolation and loneliness on the land, and does her best to provide useful support for her husband in tasks on the farm, as well as undertaking all of the expected domestic duties.The story spans several decades, until death comes, and relates a series of events in the ordinary lives of these stoic pioneers.There are the inevitable floods, droughts, bushfires and disasters associated with rural life, interspersed with periods of relative prosperity and harmony.
And I don't know why that feels so big, as I have read some for the challenge that were even bigger, but it just felt like a really big book.The book is all about an Australian couple, Stan and Amy Parker.
Stan dies.And believe it or not, that is really the whole book.
Both Stan and Amy are taciturn by nature.Perhaps this is White's way of portraying the basic honest type of person who is always at the heart of a thriving nation.
I'm not sure if it's the writer or because he was Australian, but there are just small differences in the way the story is told.
Fairly straightforward for a White novel, this one felt more like a combination of Lawrence with Richardson's "Mahoney" than a combination of Lawrence with actual modernism (gratuitous drive-by on Lawrence there, sorry).
As with "Mahoney," there's a lot of grand-national-epic feel, at least to begin with, as well as the conflicts between one's origins and the way we develop into different people, though here the class aspects are spread across generations (Richardson focuses on the title character, White on a family tree) and social groups.
It's fascinating to see White write scenes involving more than two people, and actually kind of sometimes succeeding.
I am amazed at some of the glowing reviews.
But....Amy?
One reviewer wrote in praise of the book, but admitted she couldn't understand why Amy went into such a life--Precisely!?
We cannot understand it because White does not explain it.
Amy is entirely without subjectivity here--she exists, according to the thoughts he assigns to her, entirely in orbit of her husband.
I guess in 1951 we are supposed to forgive male authors for assuming that women don't think interesting thoughts just because men don't know about it.
The characters are so real, complex, and alive that I feel like they are people I know.
The setting in the Australian bush gives the story a feeling of starting as a Garden of Eden with the first man and the first woman who built a world with their sweat and care.The brilliance of White is his ability to make the banal interactions of any two people in an intimate relationship seem profound and beautiful.I have more of an awareness and appreciation for the simple dance of my daily routines with my partner now.
This book is not easy to read.
It is, however, novel.
It describes the life of Stan Parker and his wife, Amy Fibbens.
The inner texture of the married couple's relationship forms the backbone of the narrative (at least in the first ten chapters).
Stan and Amy live in New South Wales in presumably the early 20th century.
Stan is a competent farmer.According to David Marr's biography of Patrick White, White was drunk and furious and frustrated throughout the writing of this novel, and routinely abused his partner during the time of its composition.It reminds me of the work of Cormac McCarthy and the work of John Steinbeck.
A wonderful read by Patrick White. He certainly took me on a journey of life in early Australia and made me oh so happy to be alive now. It was a totally depressing reality check of life in the bush for both women and men. The isolation was just heart rending even for the two people who were living in the same house who, because of their upbringing, did not know how to reach out to each other. So many people survived and withered up, not from the harsh Australian climate but just from the lack of love. Brilliant.
