https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643062.Mrs_Palfrey_at_the_Claremont
"‘But we aren’t allowed to die here.’" Old Mrs Palfrey arrives at the Clairmont Hotel as a long-term resident. Days stretch out endlessly as the elderly residents anticipate the main event of the day: dinner. Ghastly as the meals may be, the residents look forward to hovering around the menu that has been posted on the wall in advance, and later they dress in their finery for the big event. Their world has shrunk into one of petty gossip, complaints and fretting about minor issues. Mrs Arbuthno
Old Mrs Palfrey arrives at the Clairmont Hotel as a long-term resident.
Days stretch out endlessly as the elderly residents anticipate the main event of the day: dinner.
Ghastly as the meals may be, the residents look forward to hovering around the menu that has been posted on the wall in advance, and later they dress in their finery for the big event.
It is both funny (at times farcical) and sad.A few extracts:(view spoiler)[The morning was to be filled in quite nicely; but the afternoon and evening made a long stretch.
In this review of Nicola Beauman's biography we're told of one blossoming of confusion:Elizabeth Taylor the novelist occasionally received fan letters intended for her more famous namesake.
"Men write to me and ask for a picture of me in my bikini," she told the Times in 1971.
The actress would dearly like to drift away from Mrs Post, but she seemed the only one who had ever heard of her, so she decides to bully her rather than dazzle.That is where Elizabeth-Taylor-the-novelist shines: she sees those cruelties that we use to ward off the careless cruelties of others.
"It was hard work being old. It was like being a baby, in reverse. Every day for an infant means some new little thing learned; every day for the old means some little thing lost. Names slip away, dates mean nothing, sequences become muddled, and faces blurred. Both infancy and age are tiring times."I really enjoyed this book! I realize now that I didn't intend to introduce myself to Elizabeth Taylor's work by starting with her penultimate book, but it was such a joy to read nonetheless, and as
I realize now that I didn't intend to introduce myself to Elizabeth Taylor's work by starting with her penultimate book, but it was such a joy to read nonetheless, and as I understand, a parting from her usual themes.
I found this book to be quietly funny even though the subject matter was a bit melancholy.
Some things are just heartbreaking to read about, like the loneliness that results from being forgotten by loved ones, being subjected to obligatory visits, or losing one's independence in one cruel blink of an eye.
Can't wait to read more of her work.
Old middle-class people mouldering away bleakly in a London residential hotel around 1968 (nice Beatles reference, Union Jack carrier bags and political demonstrations on the telly every night). It’s a black comedy which it has to be otherwise you would slit your wrists. The reader will have a suppressed grim smile throughout which may widen at times but no lols. Author is merciless about the horrors of geriatric society, for which (try to be grateful) all medical advances are preparing us.
Elizabeth Taylor is another writer who was virtually unknown to me, but was brought to my attention by The Mookse and the Gripes group.
This is a very entertaining book, but ultimately quite a poignant one.Mrs Palfrey is a widow who has chosen to spend her retirement in a London hotel which is populated by similar lonely old people.
When a struggling young writer helps her after a fall, she concocts a plan for him to pretend to be the grandson, and much of the comedy in the book results from the misunderstandings that ensue, and the complications that occur when the real grandson turns up.
Taylor's observations are razor sharp and the characters are memorable.
La novela más conmovedora que leí en mi vida.
Creo que su efecto tuvo que ver con el arte de Elizabeth Taylor para volver a los personajes bien reales a partir de la observación de detalles de la vida cotidiana.
Simple pero no por eso deja de ser genial.
Una mujer se aloja en un hotel que se ha convertido en una especie de geriátrico, aunque no del todo porque es el último lujo antes de la decadencia total.
Nadie la va a ver.
No quiero decir más pero es una novela de amor sobre todo.
Preparen pañuelos para el final.
Taylor has penned an acerbic end-of-life tale—uncomfortable and real—in which one’s family doesn’t care much what happens once one is parked at a 'last' (maybe) destination. Friends who do care, care mostly for secret or selfish reasons, and include a young man who literally picks up a character off the street. His novel-writing and how he accumulates his source material had me wondering if he was an alter-ego for the author.No one escapes Taylor’s dark humor, though each character’s humanity is left intact. And what is left to the protagonist near the story’s end clutches at one’s heart.
The relationship between Mrs. Palfrey and Ludo, who masquerades as her grandson, is not, as the blurb might suggest, some tawdry cougar romance.
“What a strange friendship we have” is Mrs. Palfrey’s better description.
Overall, the tone of gentle regret and enduring good humor lies somewhere between All Passion Spent and The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel.As Paul Bailey writes in his introduction to this Virago edition, “[Taylor’s] reports from the chintz-bedecked battlefields are of lasting value, for the simple reason that they are exquisitely written.” I much preferred this to Angel.
It’s a quick read with an almost fable-like simplicity of structure and character, but explores old age and life’s disappointments with great tenderness.
“It was hard work being old. It was like being a baby, in reverse. Every day for an infant means some new little thing learned; every day for the old means some little thing lost. Names slip away, dates mean nothing, sequences become muddled, and faces blurred. Both infancy and age are tiring times.”That is all.
I hadn’t expected however, to be so exceptionally moved by it, or to find myself thinking about it throughout the day whilst at work, it wasn’t as if I didn’t know what was coming.Having spent so much time thinking about and reading the works of Elizabeth Taylor this year, I feel as if I have got to know, in some small way at least, the woman that she was.
As the novel opens Laura Palfrey, the widow of a colonial administrator, having enjoyed a blissful retirement with her husband in Rottingdean, before his death, comes to the Claremont Hotel.
Elizabeth "No, the other one" Taylor's Mrs. Palfrey at the Claremont is about old people doomed to die alone because their relatives don't love them, so it's basically more harrowing than Blood Meridian.
What I was really blown away by was Taylor's unsentimental empathy for her characters.
She doesn't sugarcoat their loneliness and pain, but she doesn't wallow in it Père Goriot-style either.
She neither condemns nor excuses their snobbery and petty gossip; she just lays it out.
When one character becomes incontinent, you feel how humiliating and terrifying that is, but you don't feel voyeuristic or creepy about it.
This was a lovely story, beautifully constructed and self-contained. It would be a great play. It is a touching and thoughtful look at aging, loneliness, and community, with a colourful cast of often sharp-tongued characters. A bit of trivia: p71, the mother of Mrs Palfrey's friend says "But every great actor started that way. I'm sure Sir Laurence did his stint." The real-life widow of Sir Laurence, Joan Plowright, plays Mrs Palfrey in the movie.
Karen gave the initial recco, and now I see Cheryl has added it too. Neat!Introduced by Paul baileyOpening: Mrs Palfrey first came to the Claremont Hotel on a Sunday afternoon in January.4* Dangerous Calm4* Mrs Palfrey at the ClaremontKaren 5*Cheryl 4*Libbeth 4*Deanne 3*
Esta es una novela extraordinaria. Pero compuesta a partir de las cosas cotidianas de la vida. Los pequeños prejuicios, hábitos, afianzados durante una vida que ya no será la misma. En el hotel Claremont, Laura conoce 4 personajes inolvidables. Qué habilidad para el retrato profundo. Su amor por Ludo, y el desapego de su familia. La historia es mínima pero impactante, conmovedora. Una gloria.
I read this a couple of years back and thought about it for a long time after.
It is a rather poignant story of Mrs Palfrey, who has moved into a residential hotel for aged guests, however, they "aren't allowed to die here".
She is lonely and waiting for her grandson to come and visit, as she tells the other guests.
He pretends to be her Grandson and staves off her loneliness for a bit and she spoils him in a way he is not used to.
A beautiful story of loneliness and unlikely friendships.
Me sorprendió esta autora.
Qué gran historia hecha a partir de detalles cotidianos, del poder de la observación, del registro acertado de las voces y la profundidad de los personajes.
Laura llega al hotel Claremont como el último tesoro de riqueza antes de la desolación.
Y los demás huéspedes, 4 en total lo viven de igual manera.
Todos se aferran a los últimos vestigios de esplendor hasta el último momento.
Y lo esencial sigue siendo el amor.
Cuando conoce a Ludo, un aspirante a escritor, planean el modo en que van a derrotar la soledad.
Y siempre está presente la mirada de los otros.
This is my first Elizabeth Taylor, though I've had View of the Harbour gathering dust on my shelf for ages.
I should like the acquaintance to continue.But first, Mrs. Palfrey: As a middle-aged human, this glimpse into the next age category is rather daunting.
Especially Mrs. Palfrey.
I just saw that there's a movie with Joan Plowright.
While I don't really want to see the movie, now I definitely picture her as that character.
Elizabeth Taylor's grandson is on it too.
(Mrs. Palfrey's grandson is a major part of this book, so you'll see why that deserves mention here).http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01k9npg
Loved this so much
Nearly all of the action takes place in the constrained environment of a somewhat down at the heels hotel that houses long term elderly residents.
All of the residents live there because they feel that there is no other place to go, and they all resent this fact.
They are not aging gracefully, these people.
But the intermittent intrusions of characters from outside these environs are not graceful either.
That the adages are true, you can't judge a book by its cover, that you must walk a mile in those mocassins, that every single person is a hero in his or her own story, and if only we knew....
Absolutely loved every sentence of this book. It's witty, insightful, poignant and a true masterclass in characterisation. Despite the fact that it's (mostly) about elderly people, and there's no gruesome murder, or psycho baddy, not for one second was I bored (and I'm VERY easily bored). The writing's so wonderful, the characters written with such understanding, compassion and humour, the observations so acute, it doesn't need a dramatic car chase or helicopter crash. Fantastic book. Highly recommended. Now I'm off to buy another Elizabeth Taylor novel :)
I really didn't want this book to end, this rates more than a five star for me. The characters of Mrs Palfrey and Ludo where so enjoyable, their unusual friendship and the way they both needed each other was a pleasure to read about. Another wonderful Elizabeth Taylor about aging, loneliness and friendship. I desperately wanted the story to end differently but glad that Ludo, in the end proves he is the good person I thought he was.
Bellísima. Gracias a Adriana, amiga de Goodreads, por recomendar esta novela y hacerme descubrir a su autora. Una mirada sobre la vejez con ternura, sin golpes bajos, conmovedora y real.
From BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:Eleanor Bron reads Elizabeth Taylor's poignant and witty masterpiece.Published in 1971 Mrs Palfrey at the Claremont is both tender and sharp in its depiction of old age.On a rainy January afternoon, the recently widowed Laura Palfrey arrives at the Claremont Hotel on the Cromwell Road.
Apprehensive but doughty, she settles into her room without a view, and begins to meet the other residents.For the long-term residents of the Claremont Hotel life revolves around waiting for dinner, the nine o'clock serial and visitors.
Mrs Palfrey assures her new friends that her grandson will soon be making an appearance.Writer: Elizabeth TaylorAbridger: Robin BrooksReader: Eleanor BronProducer: Natalie Steed.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0bf...
This is a British tragic-comedy of errors, set in a “Hotel”, concerning a small group of long-stay elderly residents.
The protagonist, Mrs. Palfrey finds little to like in the residents, the hotel, or her life.
A highly unlikely friendship ensues and because Mrs. Palfrey’s grandson, the only relative living in frequent visiting distance, has ignored her she hatches up a plan to have Ludo pose as her grandson to save face.
I found Ludo to be the most interesting character in the novel.
I recently read The Stone Angel.
Both were for Goodreads group reads.
Both protagonists are late-life woman.
I was floored when in December 2005 I saw "Mrs. Palfrey" on Laemmle's marquee with Dame Joan Plowright as the lead.
I dropped whatever I had going and bought a ticket.I Only one regret about this lovely film...Ludovic was too pure.
E. Taylor wrote him a more sinister character.
across from "Pita!
Pita!" that since my first reading puts The Claremont pleasantly on my mind.Epilogue: Fun little connection to Hollywood--the closest I'll ever get.
I wrote one of the first user reviews on IMDB that night.
Almost a year later when the film came out on DVD I watched it with director Dan Ireland's commentary.
I'm so glad I read Karen's review of this one, otherwise I might not have picked it up. I found it to be a sensitive and deeply poignant story, as well as being wickedly funny. It's also the first Elizabeth Taylor book I've read and I'll definitely be on the look-out for more of her work.
Mrs Palfrey herself falls into this trap and builds up a fictional account of the devotion of her grandson.
At the end Mrs Palfrey dies of pneumonia contracted after a fall (with some confusion at the hospital when her real and fake grandsons visit) – the residents scan the deaths column for mention of her but don’t see anything as Mrs Palfrey’s distant family assume “no one is left who would be interested” – a poignant ending to the book revealing as it does both the way in which the outwardly distant residents end up as each other’s only real family and friends but that their own family knows nothing of their lives.
I love Joan Plowright!http://movies.netflix.com/WiMovie/Mrs...http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0421229/"All but abandoned by her family in a London retirement hotel, an elderly woman strikes up a curious friendship with a young writer."Rupert Friend was perfect as Joan Plowright's co-star!Joan Plowright: http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0687506/Rupert Friend: http://www.imdb.com/name/nm1670029/I shall look for more books by this author, Elizabeth Taylor.The GR description says:==================================="Taylor's work is mainly concerned with the nuances of "everyday" life and situations, which she writes about with dexterity.
Her shrewd but affectionate portrayals of middle class and upper middle class English life won her an audience of discriminating readers, as well as loyal friends in the world of letters."Also: "Elizabeth Taylor (née Coles) was a popular English novelist and short story writer.
A lovely story of an old lady living in a cheap but respectable London hotel where tiny variations in the routine keep life bearable, until she meets a young writer whom she passes off to the other residents as the grandson who never comes to visit.
The other elderly characters are great too, especially the acerbic Mrs Arbuthnot whose sharp tongue is driven by incessant pain from arthritis, and there's a screamingly awful party at the flat of one lady who has escaped the hotel.
No sign of arthritic knees or failing memories, of stiffening joints or nervousness about venturing out anywhere after dark.Such however is the reality experienced by Mrs Palfrey who, eschewing nursing homes, has moved into the Claremont Hotel in west Lonon for what she knows will the the final stage of her life."She realised that she never walked now without knowing what she was doing and and concentrating upon it; once, walking had been like breathing, something unheeded.
