https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204525.Quantum_Theory
In this, Bohm's first book, written early in his career, he presents what was, at the time (circa 1951), the orthodox interpretation of quantum theory.
However, even at this early stage, Bohm evinces an ambivalence toward the apparent discontinuity inherent in this view, a dissatisfaction that would inform the eventual development of his own essentially quantum-mechanical theory.
See, for instance, his assertion that the phase relations among potential eigenstates of a system persist (albeit diminished beyond any possibility of perception) even after that system is observed, implying an indeterminate quantum basis for physical processes.A caveat to the general reader: this book is heavily mathematical, as Bohm's use of formulae in addressing the physical consequences of quantum processes presupposes the reader's background in the calculus underpinning modern physics.
Okay, I haven't read through the entire book. But this is one of the better textbooks on Quantum Theory I've encountered.
Make ...brain.....hurty..but seriously, its cheapand offers a pretty good read if your trying to understand the subject...and have no idea what your getting into. it took me a long time to get through it and the math is pretty much beyond me, but the ideas in it gave me a better understanding then I had previously.
I didn't find this book very clear, and it meanders around somewhat without seeming to have a point. I suppose it was meant as a survey of the subject, but it doesn't present its logic well and some of the conclusions get muddled as a result.
I have not worked through every chapter. This is a certainly inexpensive reference to the essential theory. It is also highly portable which makes it easy to bring along with you for reference.
i started this book once, it is really hard. tough math and you are not eased into it. i put it down to read at a time when i was able to devote proper resources to the difficult math.
Too. Much. Quantum. Theory. Honestly, this book is cheap (thank's Dover!) and useful, but there are better QM texts out there. It's all about Griffiths!
A methodical and very technical presentation of quantum theory from first principles. Intensive mathematically but there are purely qualitative sections too.
Does...erp...not...errrp...Commdmdsputtte...
Someday...
entanglement rocks...
An old textbook that's an excellent read if you have the time to read it alongside a more modern textbook.This pedagogical (but slightly outdated) treatment of Quantum Mechanics includes some material that's rarely found in other textbooks and the author shares his many insights.
