https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40483.Story_of_O
despite the lingering on the violence and the restraining, piercing, branding, whipping, the sex act itself is glossed over to the extent that at one point o has taken on several lovers, to completion, in the span of three sentences.for example, the last line in the book:it was only after daybreak, after all the dancers had left, that sir stephen and the commander, awakening natalie who was asleep at o's feet, helped o to her feet, led her to the middle of the courtyard, unfastened her chain and removed her mask and, laying her back upon a table, possessed her one after the other.penthouse letters, that is not.and it's all like that.
The original ending of this book was suppressed because it supposedly objectified women.
However, I think the book is very empowering for women.
It makes very clear the difference between being submissive as a person and being submissive as a sexual preference.
But not as much as in the past for its pornographic content,no now it is seen as the choices its protagonist makes that are shocking.
I would recommend the book to loads of people if only because it's fabulously well-written, a real literary classic and of course, it's hot, really hot.
How many classics can you say are that?
Since my child is currently one of my 2 friends, I will refrain from writing a real review of this book. Manon, when you're living far far away and are much older you should check this out. And when you do, please don't tell me about it.
The whipping, however, gets a lot more attention than the sex does, the whole sample doesn't actually feel like erotica unless you're the kind to masturbate while Crimewatch is on.
If all the participants aren't invested in the sexual activities and aren't getting pleasure out of it then it isn't sex, it's rape.Okay, okay, before I get carried away with that idea, it's kinda important to point out that it wasn't clear as to whether O was giving consent to what the people were doing to her.
The psychological aspect of BDSM is a lot like how it is (or should be) with regular sex.
The most useful piece of advice on literary criticism that I've ever come across is Nabokov's dictum to identify with the author, not the characters. This book is a perfect example. If you make the mistake of identifying with O, it's all a bit bewildering. Why exactly is she interested in being blindfolded, tied up, whipped, and fucked from all angles by a bunch of people she doesn't even know? It seems bizarre and rather distasteful.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
At first most people read this as erotica.
However I read it for a psychology class.
There is a much deeper story if you read it from a different perspective.
Sad, definitely.
This woman gives up everything.
I don't mean everything in the passive way we use it today.
I mean right down to her voice.
She gives away her core, her voice and her soul.
Just to be loved.
And what a silent psychological break she makes to remain a body but nothing more than a toy.
The things some women do longing to be loved.
I do realize I completely missed the point of this book, because it just completely flew by me.I won't go into detail too much but the story begins when O and her lover Rene (I use an Allo Allo!
See how he likes it.Chains, whips (a riding crop for christ's sake), multiple men at multiple entrances (real friends come in through the back door!), wearing a ring that means you'll have to do it with every guy who knows what that ring means, wearing stuff that expands certain holes, clothes designed for 'easy access' and last but not least: never cross your legs and always part your lips.Try that last one.
And I don't just mean for like a few minutes, anybody can make that pose look hot.
Sir Stephen is more possessive and depraved than Rene and only takes her by where men and women have in common.
Como ya le había dicho que quería prostituirla no le toma por sorpresa cuando la lleva a Roissy donde es tratada como una esclava sexual, golpes y todo incluido.
Sir Stephen es más posesivo y depravado que Rene y solo la toma por donde hombres y mujeres tienen en común.
I quote them here because it's just possible some of you will not know this lovely ballad.I ache for the touch of your lips, dear, But much more for the touch of your whips, dear.
You can raise welts like nobody elts, As we dance to the masochism tango.
Blacken my eye, Set fire to my tie, As we dance to the masochism tango.
Your eyes cast a spell that bewitches The last time I needed twenty stitches To sew up the gash That you made with your lash, As we danced to the masochism tango.
Fracture my spine, And swear that you're mine, As we dance to the masochism tango
Anonymous author grabs her reader by the proverbial balls right before bedtime god damn itE. L. James should be ashamed. What I'm reading here is pure artistry and I almost wonder if the author isn't writing from experience. It's very difficult to explain these types of sexual and psychological relationships unless you've been in one.RTC but let me say this...REALLY ANONYMOUS??? What's with that ending?Audiobook #210 11/20/18
Μέχρι σχεδόν το τέλος της ζωής της δεν είχε παραδεχτεί ότι αυτή ήταν η συγγραφέας του, και είναι το δεύτερο – λένε – πιο διαδεδομένο γαλλικό βιβλίο σε πωλήσεις μετά το Μικρό πρίγκηπα, δηλαδή πούλησε σαν τρελό (τα γαλλάκια την είχαν τη φήμη πάντως από το Μεσαίωνα ακόμα).
While this was one of the most original and mind blowing books I've ever read (and the history behind it is fascinating as well), it is definitely not for everyone, especially the sexually squeamish and the faint of heart.
It feels very reminiscent of Marquis de Sade's type of literary eroticism, but is a much easier read in terms of language and prose.
This book stayed with me for months after I read it leaving me with that type of sadness you feel when you know it may take years to find another book that is so intense, mind opening, and truly original.
Genre: EroticaType: Standalone Book 1 of Story of O DuetPOV: Third PersonRating: O was a fashion photographer in the heart of Paris. With her lover René, she decided to explore the darker side sexuality. She developed a taste for being used and abused, but how much more could she endure in the name of love?   “Your hands are not your own, nor are your breasts, nor, most especially, any of your bodily orifices, which we may explore or penetrate at will.” I’ve wanted to read this book for a while
“Your hands are not your own, nor are your breasts, nor, most especially, any of your bodily orifices, which we may explore or penetrate at will.”
I’ve wanted to read this book for a while now, unfortunately it ended up as a painful experience.
This book is not long but I struggled to finish due to the writing with the very long paragraphs and chapters.
The book started and ended abruptly with things missing in between.
The only thing remotely interesting was the FF and the happenings towards the end of the last chapter.
After reading more about Anne Desclos (The Story of O being written under the pen name Pauline Réage) the story begins to make a bit more sense.
It wasn’t originally intended to be a novel; however, it was written as a series of love letters to her lover Jean Paulhan.
So it probably wasn’t meant to make sense, her lover may have been into stuff like that and she was trying to … pacify him.
Either way it was quite the difficult read and wasn’t exactly enjoyable.
2.5 StarsStory of O begins with the protagonist, only known as “O,” being trained as a submissive at the request of her then lover. Consenting to his wishes, O’s life changes as she learns about her deep needs in regard to love, freedom and submission. Treated as a possession, O finds pleasure in pain and the concept of feeling owned.  “And yes, by the way: while it is perfectly all right for you to grow accustomed to being whipped—since you are going to be every day throughout your stay—this is
Consenting to his wishes, O’s life changes as she learns about her deep needs in regard to love, freedom and submission.
While I could potentially deal with all three possibilities, why not publish as the author intended and ground the story with a proper finale.As for other characters, the men remained aloof, entitled and selfish.
In comparison, it seems O came to a certain acceptance at the end but being led was still part of her needs.Ultimately, Story of O didn’t work for me and it wasn’t due to the subject matter but rather the narrative feeling choppy and incomplete.
That is probably true for feminism too - I am sure I have read somewhere feminists have objections to some of sexual positions and I think that is going too far.
What really bugs me is that she seems to give up her career, her Social life etc (something I don't much like, even when it has nothing to do with BDSM, for example when women do it after marriage) and it crossed all lines when O go suicidal in one of alternative endings upon being abandoned by her lover and seeks his permission for even that.
I read this quite a while ago, and thought I had already rated it.Anyway, what I still cannot fathom is why a woman would write fiction that so thoroughly dehumanizes women.
Even the Marquis doesn't come close,and one could excuse it more from a man.
Which is probably what was intended, and admittedly it was because it was rather well-written that it managed to achieve this.
Whilst reading, I had to keep two things in mind.
The fact that it's a classic bit of literature is pretty relevant.
Mostly because when a book like this was written in earlier times, it was incredibly scandalous.
On that note, I definitely had to keep in mind that this was a French book.
This swinging between very mundane details and superficial coverage of the interesting parts *wink wink* probably also stems from the fact that it was written in a different era.
And in that way this was less a story about O and more a fictionalized work of what happened to this character.
Το καλοκαίρι του 2013 υπήρξε αρκετά δυστοπικό τόσο σε θέμα δουλειάς, το θυμάμαι σαν ένα μόνιμο ιδρώτα με συνεχείς αψιμαχίες για παράλογα πράγματα, με τη ζωή μου όπως την ήξερα ως τότε να έχει καταστραφεί ολοκληρωτικά και με μια ανάγκη να πατήσω τις λέξεις, να σπάσω πράγματα, μια ατελείωτη δίψα για νυχτερινή οδήγηση και για κουβέντες προκειμένου να μη συνομιλώ με τον εαυτό μου.
Είναι ένα όπλο προς τους άλλους και τον εαυτό μας.
Είναι δονητής για τους άλλους και τον εαυτό μας.
Yet I find it amusing that the book was written to please a BDSM fanatic of a lover instead.
Therefore I find it both titillating and upsetting that (in this version) the last chapture of the book was omitted while a comment was added about an alternative ending.
I feel the chapter (which has been printed as a separate book, if I understood correctly) would have given it a completion that the previous chapter was building up to.The erotica is rather "female" in the sense that you get vivid imagery dragged out of the dungeons of your imagination that is aroused from the air of the situations.
The detail is graphic ...The book was banned and in the furore authorship was attributed to Raymond Queneau, André Malraux, Peyre de Mandariagues, even [Aury's partner Jean] Paulhan himself, who, in his preface, described it as the "most ardent love letter@ he had ever read.
It was only in 1994, in an interview with the New Yorker, that Aury explained why and how she had written one of the century's erotic classics.Sensing that Paulhan was falling out of love, and being no longer young and attractive, she responded by taking up his artistic challenge by writing the pornographic novel he believed no woman could write.
I just finished reading The Story of O,while I find that life style bizarre,I also see its lure.
But then again I believe certain events that may have taken in her life is why she became this way.
I don't know exactly that I find this novel as being great but rather captivating in the sense that once you read it your curiosity is peeked or you find yourself feeling more sensual.
Some love to be desired as I believe O did.
I don't believe O could love anyone or know love without being sexual.
O can't say no..becomes in need of whatever pain they administer in my opinion purely to be noticed and seeking an emotional as well as physical need to her abusers.
I didn't like it, yet it drew me to read it the first time, and I reread it to see if i would have a change of opinion.
Yet her type of submissive slavery and debasement to another human with nothing reciprocated emotionally just confirmed my first opinion, and the intervening years make me dislike her subservient character less and Rene and friends even less.It is still reasonably well written, and gives as is, regardless of human niceties and conventions.
An extremely disturbing piece of erotic literature that will turn your stomach a long time after having finished reading. Very graphic. No romance here. It's a frightening story of creepy, sadistic sexual power. Very difficult to rate. If you like reading this kind of story then you could easily give it a 5. I'd still recommend it just to know that books like this are out there but you have to be in the right frame of mind to read it I think.
Like The Song of Solomon, this is evidently an allegory of Christ's love for the Church. Or so I was told by a defrocked French priest with whom I once had a brief liaison.
Overall, it was more interesting to think about the novel as a phenomenon, about some of the less frequently mentioned character relationships, and to imagine the story specifically in 1950s France (there are details of dress and manners, but atmosphere augmented by reading the last 2/3 the same day as a book on 60s yé-yé).
It would be interesting, but almost impossible given the lapse of time since its British publication in 1970, to work out the extent to which Story of O influenced desires and practices in the kink scene; I suspect it had a role over and above reflecting some people's pre-existing predilections.Years before 50SOG, The Story of O was the most widely recommended erotic novel; it would be mentioned as such on forums which were rather prudish when someone asked a question about their RL, vanilla, sex life.
Το βιβλίο φυσικά δεν είναι απλά ένα προκλητικό πορνογράφημα, κατάλληλο μόνο για να προκαλέσει κάποιο ερωτικό ερέθισμα.
Ένα από αυτά τα ερωτήματα που υπάρχουν και περιφέρονται μέσα στις σελίδες είναι το κατά πόσον η απόλυτη παράδοση που του εαυτού μας στο πρόσωπο που αγαπάμε είναι η απόλυτη απόδειξη της αγάπης.
Φυσικά υπάρχουν και ένα σωρό ακόμα που χρειαζόμουν πολύ μεγάλο χώρο για να τα αναλύσω και πιθανότατα δεν είμαι και ο αρμόδιος να το κάνω.
Αυτό που έχει σημασία είναι αυτό που είπα και παραπάνω ότι υπάρχουν πολύ περισσότερα πράγματα μέσα από αυτά που φαίνονται με την πρώτη ματιά.
My parents had a pretty hands-off attitude to my compulsive reading, and so in my early adolescence I read a lot of stuff that probably did my developing sexuality no good.
It really is much more than a story of a woman who just gives it up, and repays a thoughtful reading.
But it's also good wanking material for a middle schooler lucky enough to have the vocabulary to follow the narrative.
رواية فجّة
Това, което отличава "Историята на О" от еротичните булевардни романи е нейната художествена стойност.
Това, което може да ужаси в "Историята на О" не са нещата, които мъжете причиняват на О, а това, което тя самата е способна да си причини.
Колкото по-дълго продължи това, колкото по-безропотно се приема, толкова повече от субект се превръщаш в обект на желание.
Накрая това изисква да бъдеш ограничена до съществуване във/като предмет.
Той е спестен на читателя може би защото е твърде ужасяващ, или просто защото е ненужна подробност в Историята.
