https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1228842.Harriet_Hume
4.5 starsThis is my first Rebecca West and Harriet Hume is one of West’s lesser known novels.
Harriet discovers she can read her lovers thoughts and intentions and sees that his career and power is what motivates him and she is secondary.
West makes it clear there is a different path for Condorex to follow, it is less clear that he has the ability to follow it.Although the novel is clearly a political satire, its subtitle is still A London Fantasy.
From the start, when they meet, an attraction arises.
Over the intervening years each tells of events in a very different way.
To understand what has happened and what will happen you must read the book, which does end on a (view spoiler)[delightful (hide spoiler)] and amusing note.
Once you get the hang of the book’s set up and its message, you realize this.
(view spoiler)[Women’s ways are as valuable as men’s and a love attraction cannot be denied.
A pretty green creeper ran half the length of it, and at intervals drooped pale waving tendrils a fore-arm's length down into the street, so that it looked as if a harem had drugged their eunuchs in a body and had stolen to the confines of their prison to have their fingers kissed by a queue of lovers."What a wonderfully evocative description; I nearly rated this 2 1/2 stars due to the fact that I didn't enjoy it all that much but it's been so beautifully written that I couldn't bring myself to value it as anything less than a full three stars.The eponymously named Harriet Hume begins this book as a young lady nearly engaged to a young man, Arnold Condorex.
I read Harriet Hume to close out the set of novels whose characters personify Virginia Woolf's themes from "A Room of One's Own." All three novels - written by Woolf, Rebecca West, and Vita Sackville-West - contrast the feminine appreciation for beauty with the masculine urge to dominate.This novel details a strange love affair in which the heroine inexplicably develops the ability to read the thoughts of her suitor.
In this case, she withers to hear his preference for worldly pleasures - financial success and power - over the ethereal pleasure of loving Harriet and appreciating the simple beauty of nature.

Mentioned in, The Diary of a Provincial Lady by E. M. Delafield.
The story centres on Harriet Hume, a young pianist and Arnold Condorex, a young politician.
Over the next ten or more years we are provided with commentary on Arnold's career and life and to a lessor extent, Harriet's career and life.
This is an unusual book in that we never fully know who Harriet and Arnold are.
I enjoyed the reading experience, though there was a part in the second half of the novel that I found a particular day in the life of Arnold a little dull.
This is my first Rebecca West novel and probably not the best place to start reading West books.
Arnold is unlikeable he is selfish and when he is not happy he blames other, he is not worth Harriets time and yet she is drawn to him for some reason.
Harriet herself is annoying she is passive and doesn't take charge every time she meets Arnold she behaves like a dog parted from its owner I mean seriously she should have kicked him in the nuts and found someone worthwhile to pine over.I find it hard to like a book where you really just want to shout at the main characters and this was one of those books.
Harriet was tiny, beautiful and an accomplished pianist.
That Arthur had invented the kingdom of Mondh (la Monde - the world, perhaps?) to gain importance was quite clever, it reminded me of Wag the Dog, although, of course, this was written in the 1920's, so West could be credited with prescience.
Arthur realised his faults, but did he destroy beauty in the process?
He had dismissed Harriet as a woman and therefore unimportant.
It was really the story of Arthur Conderex and the perils of ambition rather than that of Harriet Hume, the lover of beauty.
Harriet Hume is a beautiful professional pianist.
Because he chooses his career over Everything including his love for Harriet Hume (she is most often referred to by both names), he will over time compromise every value, marring into wealth not for love, building his career on an ethical compromise and so forth until he compromises one time too often.
Ultimatly he finds himself financially ruined, livening in a loveless home, despised by even his man servant.Harriet will develope magical abilities and will know his every misstep, from leaving her for his career to the final deal that will mean his total destruction.
A young man, Arnold Condorex, has an affair with Harriet Hume, a beautiful piano player.
The book is also called "A London fantasy" and every time he meets Harriet again something fantastical happens, such as all the statues in London coming to life or three young women turning into trees.
The writing is wonderful and I love the London that is portrayed in here and really enjoy the fantastical element, but I never really cared for the characters.
It's very distracting when Arnold keeps calling Harriet "trollop" and "bitch" and it's not supposed to be insulting, and I have no idea why Harriet cared for him at all.
I thought I was going to like/love this book.
Perhaps if the book had been a mere 150 pages rather than 300, perhaps if I had found the characters even somewhat believable as fantasies, perhaps, perhaps, perhaps.........The plot, if there is one, is that of a man with high expectations of his future drifting in and out of the life of an exquisite & mind reading sprite of a lovely but poor pianist.He wishes to be rich and powerful at any cost and she seems content with her lot.
This is an odd book, and I would have rated it rather more lowly, but I really liked the tone. There's something about British books written between the wars. They have kind of a sweet sadness that almost has a desperate hope that nothing bad will even happen again. Sometimes you can tell they are firmly ignoring the signs of impending war. Not in this book, but sometimes. And I sometimes wonder if letting go of some dreams isn't better than railing against the world because you can't achieve them.
I really enjoyed "Harriet Hume: A London fantasy." As this isn't considered one of Rebecca West's best novels, I look forward to reading more from her in the future. Harriet is a young woman with a strange connection with her lover Arnold Condorex -- she can see into his mind and knows what he is thinking and hiding from even himself. She pops up into his life at critical moments and shakes his world. I really liked the build up of the story and West's use of language and the landscape. This was a fun read.
Tinted with fantasy romance. The heroine's a recital of Harriet Cohen, concert pianist 'n' muse to Elgar, Sibelius, DH Lawrence, H.G. Wells..."works of art feel towards human beings exactly as we do towards ghosts."
Appropriately subtitled 'A London Fantasy', this is a dreamy novel about ambitious Arnold Condorex and his love for independent, ethereal Harriet Hume. They meet five times over the course of several years, in which Arnold's rise to and fall from power is traced, all foreseen and predicted by Harriet, with whom he shares an almost supernatural connection. In the end, Harriet is all that is left to him. Bittersweet.
Short easy to read story which follows the male character through his life. The book jumps several years but keeps coming back to Harriet and her ability.Loved West's style of writing and the book's unusualness. It could have been written as a common love story but the element of fantasy thrown in raises it above that.
I enjoyed this book - it's a magical, mystical love story. It reminded me of Jeanette Winterson or Angela Carter, in being quite timeless and outside of reality, although it is set firmly in 1920s London. It was also funny and comical, although the language was extremely archaic and bizarre.
The rarified language got on my nerves. But I loved Harriet's fairy tales of women turning into trees and sphinxes padding down the streets of London.
The plot is interesting but the execution is poor. It is very verbose for a 20th century novel. The style is closer to a 19th century book.
What a weird book!I have so many questions.
Is she a person, angel, ghost, or figment of Arnold's imagination?Is Arnold the person we read about--up and coming statesman yada yada--or is he an unreliable narrator?
Can Harriet really read his mind or does she just use context clues?
Is the Harriet he is going to spend eternity with the same Harriet we meet in the book, or is he just imagining his eternity as how he wished he had spent his life in the first place?
(hide spoiler)]This book was not a fun read, the writing is very much dated and felt slow.
This is a great story! Questions of predestination and fighting your fate, the idea of having "one true love" and being stalwart (or not) in one's devotion, the tendency of power to corrupt (the truth, as well as people), a lovely fairy tale or two tossed in.... Possibly because of the era (1929) in which this book was written, it's verbosity, the way in which it is arranged on the page, and the font used made it (sadly) difficult to enjoy.
