https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420297.Curious_George
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Curious George by H.A. Rey, a children's author, who wrote this series starting in 1941. Who didn't love Curious George when they were a child? Or even now as an adult? So many fun memories of this wonderful little monkey. In this first book, George comes home for the first time, and the infamous yellow coat becomes a hallmark. He's so innocent, yet such a magent for bad things to happen. But aren't all monkeys? An adorable way to teach kids to ask questions, but o
Book Review
4 of 5 stars to Curious George by H.A. Rey, a children's author, who wrote this series starting in 1941.
Who didn't love Curious George when they were a child?
So many fun memories of this wonderful little monkey.
In this first book, George comes home for the first time, and the infamous yellow coat becomes a hallmark.
I love reading these books to my younger cousins, seeing their eyes light up at all the adventures.
Such fun memories...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
For those who forget what happens in this first Curious George book, a poacher the Man With The Big Yellow Hat captures George in the wild, illegally keeps him in his city apartment, smokes a pipe with him, neglects to give him proper care so that George goes bad and ends up in prison, and then gets transported to the zoo, a slightly less dreary internment.As you see, it's a mean streets existence for our little simian friend.
But I digress...Other than that she liked it, Emma didn't have much to say about Curious George when we finished, yet she was riveted the whole way through.
Yikes this... has not aged well. I'm glad there are happier sequels and that the movie and TV shows gave it some much needed updates. There's some glimmer of heart in this first one but also a lot of bad bad things.
How many times did I do things like Curious George that turned out to be (in hindsight) not the best possible choice?
When I was a preteen all the boys in my neighborhood did some pretty DUMB things (the girls had more common sense) like 'sword fights' with tree branches, rock throwing fights, throwing kitchen knives at the fence, sling shots...how lucky we all were that no one got hurt (badly).
Just like George we all had to learn that most important of lessons - curiosity can make a monkey out of you - especially if mom catches you!
Curious George," I said, immediately remembering and wanting very much to be reminded of the times it had been read to me in early childhood.As it happens, the book is dreadful by any adult, twenty-first century standards.
--Just about as politically incorrect as one can imagine and, besides, the art is poor...Still, Jack, working by his own standards, liked the story, identifying presumably with the curious monkey, with the trouble such curiousity can lead to and with the resolution of all the excitement in the confines of a safe home.--All of which makes me wonder if many studies have been done of the books children prefer as opposed to the books parents prefer to give to their children...
This is a book I loved as a child that I hadn't read in a long time! It's an iconic character, and brings up some valuable topics for children. There were a number of books in the series, but the first one was on point, and still a favorite to have (parents and teachers) today.
And for all the Curious George books out there, they actually have pretty good story lines.
What I mean is, sometimes when a character has been commercialized, the books change in tone.
From all of these I've seen so far, these are still pretty good.I've been making my son read on his own more and more, to give me some time to have lessons with the twins, and it's been working wonderfully.
I don't care so much as what the book is about than the reading level.
And this one is probably a good level 2 book.
Listen, George: first things first, I love your work.
I've listened to all of your books.
But can we talk about your "friend"--the Man in the Yellow Hat?
Lest we forget, all of your adventures, delightful as they may be, started when the Man KIDNAPPED YOU FROM YOUR HOME AND TOOK YOU AWAY FROM EVERYONE AND EVERYTHING YOU HAD EVER KNOWN.
You two seem to have kind of a weird relationship.
If you need help, give me some kind of signal.
My parents are lawyers, they'll make a call or something.Anyway, five stars for you, one star for the Man in the Yellow Hat, we'll settle on 3.
✩ 4 Stars ✩
(H.A. and Margaret Rey apparently escaped Nazi-occupied France on homemade bicycles with the manuscript for Curious George.) The Man with the Yellow Hat travels to Africa, entices George with his hat, catches him, "pop[s] him into a bag," and ultimately takes him to live in a zoo.
Despite capturing him from the wild to take him to a zoo, the Man with the Yellow Hat is referred to as George's "friend." Before arriving at the zoo, George smokes a pipe and does a stint in prison.
I just don't find George or the Man with the Yellow Hat to be very compelling characters.
Totally awesome book. There's like a monkey and stuff. And there's like a dude with a yellow hat. The book's like yellow too. I reminds me of cheese. Sweet, sweet cheese.The monkey is like curious and stuff. His name's like George. He's so awesome.
Read this a super long time ago and really liked it :)
According to old family tales, I requested that my parents read this one to me so many times that they resorted to accidentally on-purpose "misplacing" it for a while--just long enough to get a chance to read something else to me.
That said, I'm finding that many of my students (so far, the K-2 ones) love this story.
Then, to put it into perspective, I tell them the story of my parents hiding the book, and we talk about what it was like 70+ years ago.
As we read, we spend some time discussing some of the things in the pictures that might not be familiar to the kids now.
She went looking for our old copies shortly thereafter so ever since Jeanne's been read the old ones--now in tatters--when she visits here.The stories are still charming, but one of the things that goes over Jeanne's head is the way that the city George lives in changes between books.
In the first one it's quite clearly Paris, and the zoo where he goes to live is the Ménagerie in the Jardin des plantes, but the next one is just as clearly New York.The reason why came clear this morning when the quality French language daily here Le Devoir had an article about an exhibit on George's creators.
George, who is happily living "in Africa," is captured by a man in his eponymous yellow hat to take him to a zoo. This is all in the first few pages and is a strange basis for their famous friendship--is friendship what Stockholm syndrome creates?--in the subsequent books. George also smokes, is imprisoned for playing with the phone, and ends the book smiling in the zoo. What were parents like that this became a popular children's book?
This book was longer than I remembered, which I liked for my 4-year-olds' increased attention spans - longer than many other picture books but shorter than a chapter book. Fun details in the illustrations and while still fairly simple, introduces some richer vocabulary words.
I was trying to figure out the appeal -- maybe the fun of watching someone else get in trouble?
or maybe it has the kind of physical comedy that appeals to four year olds (falling into things, getting messy, etc.)?
I was hoping to avoid the gazillion George books, but -- curse you, preschool!
You've got to give the book credit for having lasted this long.
But what the heck, Paul thinks it's really funny when George falls in the ocean.
What an awful little book - almost as bad as that horrifying story, The Giving Tree. Poor wee George is taken by a poacher, essentially - oh, he's not called a poacher, he's too high-class for that, but it's essentially the same thing. George is destined for the zoo, and on the way he nearly drowns, is put in jail, hangs from balloons at risk of a falling death, and all this is presented as Silly George, What Fun!Never mind, Georgie. Planet of the Apes is coming and then you'll get yours.
This picture book was a favorite of mine as a child, so I feel disloyal giving it a bad review, but it really does not stand up to the test of time, despite being a children's classic for several generations.
Let me say that I am very pro-zoo; both children and adults learn very important things from visiting zoos.
Animals from the wild will most likely not be happy in a zoo, and often have great difficulty adjusting.
And the reverse is also true - animals living in captivity usually can't adjust to life in the wild.
Whatever issues this book has, the Reys made an important and lasting contribution to children's literature.
This book is the origins of Curious George.He was 'taken' from Africa (more like captured) by the yellow haired man.
Kind of harsh but not really for fooling the fire department anyone can get in trouble.George being George get out and gets into more trouble and the next thing you know is he's at the zoo.This book was good-ish.
I like that I finally got to see where the monkey came from but the undertone of animal trafficking left me kind of cringing.What irks me was that we still got no name for the yellow hatted male.
This is the classic story of George the monkey, heartlessly ripped from his jungle home and kidnapped to a foreign land, where he's forced to figure out his way when the Man in the Yellow Hat leaves him by himself. After wreaking havoc on the city for an entire day, George is arrested and sent to prison (the zoo).
a staple in my house my daughter's favorite.
Somebody has Stockholm syndrome.
i love this book! it is really funny.
An early reading book, George is that curious child who mimics and tries out anything that looks interesting or engaging.
To him the adult world is puzzling yet deeply interesting and his play amongst it gets him into much trouble.
I really liked the illustrations throughout and can see how much of the way the writing has been set as well as framing and colour would have inspired those who came after (this book was published in 1941).
It is interesting to note that the Reys left Hamburg to escape the Nazis.
Curious George was always a favorite of mine as a child, and it still is today. I love how relatable he is to children, as sometimes he gets himself into trouble and is mischievous and he just can't seem to help it! Sometimes that just happens to kids, they don't mean to, trouble just finds them! ;)
George is such a fun read for children and adults!
George is kidnapped by a man with a yellow hat
Ah the classic tale of a jungle creature, George, who is called "monkey" but looks an awful lot like an ape, being tricked, kidnapped, and then unleashed upon the big city where he has several more cases of being whisked away against his will, until finally he is placed inside a zoo. And somehow we are supposed to feel happy for him. Well, maybe he won't continue his habit of smoking within the zoo at least...
A reoccurring theme throughout this book is his constant adventuring with the city and the environment he is introduced to (NY).A few changes that occur to George during the story is his outlook on the world, he begins his first day, with thoughts of going home, and going back right then and there, and this happens a few times in the beginning of the book, another memorable one would be when he is lost in NY, being that this is his only time being here, other than a few others he encounters such as himself, the mysterious man in yellow, and a young animal.
