https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24178.Charlotte_s_Web
I don't give a fig if it is a kid's book, Charlotte's Web is one of the most well-crafted stories ever written.
This classic children's tale deserves 5 stars for story craft and language usage alone!
(Read your Strunk & White to understand this man's talents in that regard.) The fact that it's a heart-warmer/wrencher clinches it.
Never was I made to love pigs and spiders so much in my life.
Charlotte's Web will always rank high amongst my favorites.
But why, for the love of god, did they make us watch the cartoon version of this tear-jerker in school?
If so, mission accomplished, you sadistic school district!
It's important....At a quick glance, a little pig arrives on a new farm and is basically going to be entered into a contest to win a prize for the farm owner.
But the pig is scared and confused, turning to all sorts of other farm animals for love and guidance at his new home: chickens, mice, birds and of course, Charlotte, the friendly spider.
But there's so much more going on in this book...Charlotte is everyone's mother.
One of the great tear-jerkers of my long-lost childhood, the unlikely friendship between a spider and a pig makes for wonderful reading and a shared moment of love when reading it to kids. It is tender and teaches the values of constancy and integrity in a light, beautiful prose. A classic and a masterpiece.
In addition to a strong and engaging story E.B White has powerful prose that doesn't confuse a child, but carries more weight than you're likely to see in most children's stories.There's a circle of life theme going on, the amusing and varied anthropomorphising of various animals, a county show and prizes to be awarded, oh my!
And although there are tender moments in the story, it's never saccharine *slight spoiler* the rat never comes through with a change of heart, the little girl grows up and loses interest in the animals *end slight spoiler*All in all a fine children's book.
But fret not, for he soon meets Charlotte, a large grey spider with an impeccable vocabulary.It is truly the beginning of a beautiful and unforgettable friendship.
How strange that it is the wisdom of a spider that reminds us of what matters most in our lives.No pig ever had truer friends, and he realized that friendship is one of the most satisfying things in the world.Adding to the joy of the book are the sweet illustrations by Garth Williams.So thank you, Mr. White, for your most marvelous book.
I can think of no other author who could make an arachnophobe like me shed tears over the death of a spider.
Happy to see there's a book out there not representing spiders as being dreadful creatures. Super sweet story.
I have been familiar with the story for most of my life, but never read it until now.Wilbur the pig is born a runt, and the farmer decides he must face the axe.
Wilbur's life is nearly idyllic until he discovers the fate that has been woven for him: he will likely be the next Christmas ham.
She decides to try to alter the thread by which his destiny is hanging, but will she succeed?The barnyard animals, while displaying some human characteristics--Charlotte the spider can read and even has a smattering of Latin--behave like the animals they are.
'I don't deserve it. I've never done anything for you.' 'You have been my friend,' replied Charlotte. 'That in itself is a tremendous thing.”  Wilbur is some pig who is Radiant and humble. On the top of that, he could do a mean back flip like the Karate Kid.But would you believe me if I said that this radiant pig was almost killed..... twice? This is Wilbur's remarkable journey from almost being bacon to a beacon in the community! But this is not just his Journey. It's about Fern, the little g
On the top of that, he could do a mean back flip like the Karate Kid.But would you believe me if I said that this radiant pig was almost killed.....
This is Wilbur's remarkable journey from almost being bacon to a beacon in the community!
And as an adult, (well, an almost adult) I loved the descriptions on summer (It was almost as if I could feel my childhood!) and Charlotte's protective instincts towards Wilbur.
Well, food for thought.In the end, Charlotte's Web is a story about kindness and love.
Charlotte's Web, E.B. WhiteCharlotte's Web is a children's novel by American author E.
The novel tells the story of a pig named Wilbur and his friendship with a barn spider named Charlotte.
شارلوت با بافتن واژه‌ هایی روى تورهایش، که ویلبر را با صفات عجیب و غریب توصیف مى‌کند، او را از مرگى که در انتظارش است، نجات مى‌دهد.
ویلبر، مردم را از کشتزارها، و روستاهاى دور و نزدیک، به تماشاى خود مى‌کشاند، و سرانجام در مسابقه‌ ای در بازار مکاره، برنده مى‌شود.
I was reading a passage last night and laughing at it (there is so much in here that is really funny), and it made me wonder about the level of the humor.
White makes this lovely kind of song about the end of the season and the coming of Fall and the kind of beauty and dread and tinged sadness of it all.
We really experienced the sort of sad beauty of summer's end there.
We'll have to see.Anyhow, when a book for kids (whatever--for all of us) can make you laugh and cry and think about the beautiful sadness of death--then, damn, what can you do but ramble?
Rest in peace, Andy, you beautiful man.Original review:This is quite ridiculous, that I should read this, at 42-years-old, for the third time in my life, and end up blubbering hot tears all over my face and down the front of my shirt.
I can't get over that my youngest, at 5-years-old, sat through the entire book this week, mesmerized by the brilliant and timeless story-telling.
I honestly cried to the point of being physically incapable of reading out loud.And then, as Charlotte's babies drifted away shouting "Good-bye!
Good-bye!" my daughter's face contorted strangely and the next thing I knew, she was face down on the floor, sobbing uncontrollably.This is one powerful story.
One of my favorite childhood memories is of reading this book with my mother.
Sobbing into my pillow with my mom rubbing my back I wondered why Charlotte had to die.
My mom patiently explaining the gift Charlotte left for Wilbur.
It was treasures like this that started my love of books and reading.
I loved it so much I don't know how many times I read it over the years.
Such a timeless classic that will continue to be enjoyed for generations to come.
The meaning of true friendship, love, life's adventures, miracles, death, trust, betrayal, sorrow and the passing of time.
Truly a timeless classic.
As I now join the million's of readers who have enjoyed this great book, I realize it truly is a book for ALL ages. Loved every minute of it!
How I feel about spiders when I read Charlotte's Web:How I feel about spiders when I see one in my house:But I really do love this book. Charlotte A. Cavatica, you will live on my heart forever.
No words I can say but this book is magical and beautiful and everyone should read it... a truly wonderful tale :) <3
My first grade teacher, Mrs. Bunting, read this magical book to our class, and I can vividly remember sitting on my carpet square, entranced.
From my memory, everyone in class was excited about the book and the movie.
My copy of Charlotte's Web was read more times than I could ever possibly keep track, and as some of my book friends know, even at age 6, I worked hard to keep that well-loved book in pristine condition.
Some books are full of magic that lives in your heart forever, and Charlotte's Web is certainly in mine.Summer 2017 Read #18
Anybody who reads this story and fails to recognize its greatness doesn't really like books, in my opinion.Not only does CHARLOTTE'S WEB feature one of the most ingenious plots in all of literature, its prose is breathtaking.
Notice how White evokes the arrival of winter on the Zuckerman farm in one short paragraph: "The autumn days grew shorter, Lurvy brought the squashes and pumpkins in from the garden and piled them on the barn floor, where they wouldn't get nipped on frosty nights.
And the fact that White does this in such simple language only underscores his reputation as a great writer.If you have fond memories of CHARLOTTE'S WEB from childhood, I urge you to read it again.
It may sound weird but this is the first time I am reading this book.
I don’t know how I missed out on it when I was a kid.
Anyway, if I had read it as a kid I might have mustered some sympathy for Wilbur.
Right now though, I am just mad.
Poor Charlotte!
My personnel bitchy nature aside, this book was amazing.
A quick read, but it makes an impact.
I've never done anything for you.' You have been my friend,' replied Charlotte.
'That in itself is a tremendous thing.”At least Wilbur got that right!
GO CHARLOTTE!
I could not stop myself from crying.
I literally had tears in my eyes after I finished reading it.
Charlotte was such a sweetheart.
It is not often that someone comes along who is a true friend and a good writer.
Charlotte was both."One of the best stories of friendship I have ever read.Updated:09/28/2012I watched the movie today and it is one of the best movies ever made.
I cried like a baby at the end of the movie.
The movie is probably as good as the book is.
It entered my all-time favourite movie list.
Saw the movie adaptation of this classic children's book a decade ago so I'm already familiar with the story. What I like about this book is how it reminds everyone about friendship, compassion, humility, courage, respect, gratitude; and even the concept of life and death was tackled.Young and adult readers will definitely appreciate and enjoy reading this. If you have time to read this one of a kind story, I highly recommend to squeeze it to your reading list.
This was one of my favorite books as a kid and I always felt bad for Charlotte that people saw the spider web that said "some pig" and were instantly impressed with the pig... not the super intelligent spider who could spell.Anyways, I had a weird love for Templeton the rat and still think this entire story is absolutely adorable!
What a delightful book! Friendship, love, honesty, helping hands, utilizing your talent for a greater good, never giving up, keeping hopes high, embrace what life throws at you because in the end, things are going to be wonderful and if they not, then the ending is yet to come.I loved Charlotte's Web very much. I recommend it to people of each age group.
It took me almost one year to realize that I have loved this book all along.
In fact, when children came to visit, my mom would assemble her camera and some old towels and we would head to the pig barn.
Not a good idea to get too attached.I also had a spider phobia as a child (which has thankfully subsided as I’ve aged) and I do remember Charlotte being an example that I told myself about, trying to convince myself that spiders were not the horrible creatures that I had imagined them to be.Like Fern, I spend many happy hours in the barn, watching chickens, pigs, cows and horses.
Here is a mini recap of what I thought each time I read it...4th Grade: Poor piggy!
I'm glad he found a nice spider friend.
But I still hate spiders.
8th Grade: I guess it is a really good outlook on growing up...
I didn't realize until now how Fern spends less and less time with Wilbur as she grows older until now.
And poor Charlotte, always having to take care of whiny Wilbur.
I don't blame Fern at all for not caring about her pet pig.
I hear enough whining in life, I don't need to hear it from a pig.)
An endearing tale from childhood., I grew up watching the animated movie every year. Once I had my daughter, I knew I had to buy this book for her. Now that she's grown, I decided I needed a copy for myself. This book teaches us about love and friendship. It teaches us to celebrate life. These are lessons we are never too old to be reminded of. 2017 Reading Challenge: nonhuman perspective
Charlotte's Web is a tender children's story with sweet insights about life, growing up, and mortality. It's a privilege to open a book and hear the timber of a gifted writer, whose voice was so simple that one wonders why this book was not hatched decades earlier. The author's voice remains unique enough to be distinctive from the crowds of pretenders that have succeeded him. I think what I've done in my review is describe a classic. Make no mistake, a classic Charlotte's Web is. The fact that I like it, is mildly a catharsis for me.
"Charlotte's Web" is SOME BOOK! A childhood favorite of mine. Brings back wonderful memories for me. A classic! :)
One of the best books written for children that I've read so far this year.It has full of lessons that anyone including adults can learn from or at least be reminded of.
It's about life - the young pig Wilbur learning his life important lessons from the caring spider Charlotte.
Most importantly, it's about the passing of time - Charlotte dying at the end of story but leaving to Wilbur her sack of eggs containing her 514 children.
Now, I am glad I picked it up yesterday morning and started reading.Antoine de Saint-Exupery's THE LITTLE PRINCE has just got a worthy companion in the Best Children's Book category in my list.
