https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1273210.The_Judas_Window
η τελική αγόρευση του συνηγόρου ήταν κουραστική απο τις πολλές επαναλήψεις των γεγονότων σε σχεση με τις κινήσεις όλων των ηρώων κατα τη στιγμή του φόνου. αλλα ηταν απολαυστικό ως εκεινο το σημειο, γιατι εδινε τοσο παραστατικά το δωμάτιο του φονου κ του δικαστηριου σα να ήμουν παρούσα
A superior example of a locked room murder mystery that John Dickson Carr is famous for, The Judas Window was entertaining from the start to finish.
James Answell is found in a locked room standing over the dead body of his fiancee's father, who had been stabbed in the heart with an arrow.
Noted lawyer and irascible codger, Henry Merrivale accepts the case for the accused and the entire case hinges on his ability to present an alternative compelling theory for the murder.Merrivale suspects that the murderer made use of a "Judas Window" to commit the crime.The author keeps us guessing till almost the very end about the nature of this so-called Judas Window, but when he does reveal it, we realise that it was always hidden in plan sight.
Clever and enjoyable - the locked-room mystery qua courtroom drama - but a bit too linear and repetitive to rank among Carr's best work.
I am rediscovering John Dickson Carr, writing here as Carter Dickson, and this locked room mystery is rated one of the best ever: and I have to agree.
Sir Henry is a barrister, and except for the prologue and epilogue, this book takes place mainly in the courtroom of the Old Bailey.
These three characters are almost complete ciphers, but Merrivale himself and the principal figures in the murder mystery are vividly-drawm despite Carr’s economy of language.The solution to the locked room murder is ingenious; I did not figure it out.
This is another great locked room mystery by Carter Dickson, also known as John Dickson Carr.The plot is very, very clever as usual; a man is found in a room, locked on the inside, with a dead body.
Even though I like the story a lot, I do find that perhaps too much of it is the characters reciting what has happened before, rather than us as readers experiencing it first-hand.
I think I'd have liked it if less of the action had been going on in the courtroom.But all in all, a good read.
... I'm not too sure about that doorknob/string business.
Ο συγκεκριμένος συγγραφέας πάντοτε με ικανοποιεί τόσο σε επίπεδο πλοκής όσο και χαρακτήρων που στη σημερινή εποχή θα χαρακτηρίζονταν σαν καρικατούρες, όμως απεικονίζουν την ευγένεια και το πνεύμα της εποχής που σήμερα έχει εκλείψει.
Έχει χρησιμοποιήσει την κατάλληλη έκφραση για κάθε παράγοντα και έχει μεταφράσει το κείμενο όπως θα ακουγόταν αν το βιβλίο είχε γραφεί στα ελληνικά και είναι απόλαυση να το διαβάζεις.
Όντας δε νομικός, έχει χρησιμοποιήσει τη νομική ορολογία και φρασεολογία σε ότι έχει να κάνει με διαδικασία δικαστηρίου και το κείμενο είναι αρτιότατο από πλευράς μετάφρασης.
A really fun read. A true Carter Dickson that does not disappoint. Live Sir Henry Merrivale. If you are a John Dickson Carr fan you will really like The Judas Window. If you have never read him under John Dickson Carr or Carter Dickson you should, you will not be disappointed.
Good read.
Messier than I was expecting. I'm glad that he dies at the beginning.
Locked roomThe master of the locked room mystery stretches it a bit in this entertainment of a novel. The Merriweather character is amusing and the courtroom antics are fun. The solution is a tad far fetched but scrupulously detailed.
The locked room has been the inspiration of many an arid and tedious mystery.
I love me some Perry Mason, but this courtroom drama is more fun, and the devastation of the prosecution’s case more satisfying than anything Perry ever accomplished.As a cherry on top, while the method of murder is as insane as usual in this sort of thing, the motives of the various parties, including the killer, are unusually well handled.
And the characters are lively and fun.
John Dickson Carr thought of the detective story as a game, and this is an illustration of how satisfying that approach can be.
Φέτος το Καλοκαίρι είπα λοιπόν να διαβάσω κάποια πιο παλιά βιβλία που είχα αδιάβαστα και έτσι έπεσα επάνω σε αυτό το διαμαντάκι της παλιά καλής Αστυνομικής Λογοτεχνίας.Το Παραθυράκι του Ιούδα του Τζον Ντίξον Καρ είναι ένα απο εκείνα τα βιβλία που σε μπλέκουν χωρίς να το καταλάβεις σε ένα παιχνίδι γρίφων, ανατροπών και αναπάντεχων εξελίξεων.
Ένα βιβλίο αντιπροσωπευτικό για όσους θέλουν να παίξουν με την λογική τους και να ελέγξουν το μέγεθος της φαντασίας τους.Ο Έιβορι Χιουμ βρίσκεται νεκρός μέσα στο γραφείο του.
Που σχοινοβατούσε απο την αρχή ως το τέλος επάνω σε μια αόρατη αλήθεια που είναι μπροστά στα μάτια σου αλλά δεν μπορείς να την δεις παρά μόνο όταν θα μπορέσεις να μπεις στο μυαλό και στην σκέψη του απίστευτου συνήγορου υπεράσπισης.
OMG! Can i give something more than 5***** please??This is undeniably mystery at its pride and glory. The murderer caught me by surprise (WOW!) and how was the crime committed is yet another wow factor in the mystery! The story unfolds as a courtroom drama and Sir HM is the defense. No only has to prove the accused innocent, but also put the guilty party behind bars. The witty lawyer proves that he is truly a champ. YAY!!
Everyone believes that there was no way anyone could have got into the room except for Sir Henry Merrivale, who believes Answell is innocent and that the real killer got in through "The Judas Window".This was my first John Dickson Carr mystery and for the most part, I really enjoyed it.
But if I'm totally honest, these are just nitpicks, and don't ruin the mystery.Overall, The Judas Window is a very clever mystery that I only have a few minor problems with.
Sir Henry Merrivale has come out of retirement to act as the advocate for a young man whom he believes is innocent in the death of his future father-in-law.
Our young man, James Answell, was the only person in the room with Avery Hume when an arrow was driven through Hume’s body.
Answell claimed that he was innocent, and yet all the windows and the door had been bolted from the inside, and a very clear set of his fingerprints were found on the murder weapon.
Gruff and grumbling Sir Henry Merrivale came out of his retirement and into court for the defense, although it seemed to be an open and shut case.

One of the masterpieces of Carr.John Dickson Carr invents another novel by spectacular plot. I should say one of the best his novels, in my opinion far superior to The Hollow Man.At The Hollow Man, although there is a double impossible situation, and a wonderful plot, full of atmosphere and charm thrill, it is too complex and the solution is made with an artifice of physical optics, which does not leave completely satisfied.Instead in The Juda's Window, the solution devised by Merrivale, to expl

As a "locked room mystery", The Judas Window is brilliantly clever.
The author, John Carr Dickson, kept me totally engaged with mysteries within mysteries, and even though I guessed "whodunit" before the end, I couldn't figure out "howdunnit" until it was revealed.
As a "Courtroom drama" written in 1938, it is very entertaining.
The author's use of witness testimony in the solution of the crime is exemplary.
Note: Earle Stanley Gardner introduced Perry Mason three years earlier.
Dickson's barrister is very different from Gardner's lawyer, but the courtroom setting, British v.
American, is interesting.
I definitely want to read more Dickson.
Well, I have been trying to get my hands on this book for years, and it was a courtroom drama that was decent.
I had heard this guy was the king of the locked room mystery, though this one was sort of a let-down.
I guess the true genius of the locked room mystery (as Fell lays out in a later book) is how everything is not as it seems, so the solution was sort of a workaround.
Sorta like how it was such a wierdly specific workaround, that you were like oh, well if we're adding these bizarre invisible variables, then sure, its solvable.
Total genius. But, from a readerly viewpoint, all too complicated. It reminds me of the tendentious epilogues to the less luminous of Austin Freeman's novels, where Dr Thorndyke picks over every tiresome bone in the case until the brain-dead reader screams. Suitably edited, however (and with half the list of redundant dramatis persona dispensed with), this novel would be very elegant indeed.
Blame it on the cussed nature of things, HM solves the same kind of stuff that Gideon Fell does. This over-complicated locked room scheme in the vein of Till Death Do Us Part where you have to keep an eye on the one who is described the least is one of the more seamlessly readable Carrs (Dicksons).
Another classic locked room mystery from the King of the trade. Bonus of the book is it is also a terrific courtroom drama; you will enjoy it if you are a big fan of Perry Mason. Of course you will have some questions on the plot that eventually unravels at the end, but nevertheless this book is a great read.
Enjoyed this even though I guessed who did it. I am getting better at figuring out these locked room mysteries! A couple of surprises at the end kept me from being complacent. I've been wrong so many times in the past.
Another locked-room murder from Carter Dickson generally known as John Dickson Carr and for me another thoroughly enjoyable evening spent in the old reading chair.
Great courtroom mystery drama
If you haven't read this book and you like mysteries, then this is a must-read. A true classic that no-one has a bad word to say about.
pseudonym for John Dickson Carr. starring sir Henry merrivale. read as an adolescent/young adult
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
awful!
