https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7672.Congo
i just gave this one 4 stars and Inner-Snob Mark is getting very twitchy, almost trigger-happy, ready to take control of my favorite hand and bump this one down to 3 stars.
and Congo gets only 1 star less than either Picnic at Hanging Rock or The Thin Red Line - two books that i think are perfect from beginning to end.
ack, Inner-Snob Mark just had a spasm when i used the words "Crichton" and "prose" in the same sentence.
in my GR friend Bill's words: The big star in this story is Amy, a gorilla with a 620 sign vocabulary.
First off, I've always gone bananas over books and movies that have giant apes & big gorillas in them, going way back to when I was a kid, particularly with movie classics like, King Kong and Mighty Joe Young, that were a blast for me and my brother to watch together.Reading books and watching movies about big apes helps me reconnect with those experiences I will always hold dear to me.I've been going ape over everything & anything simian fiction-related ever since. When I first saw the
Yeah...we were little shi†s then just like most guys that age, I guess.Just so you know, I've watched the film a few times since and it gets better every time.
...a common question I ask whenever I expect to see more of something, or, when there's an element sorely missing throughout what I'm reading!Here's one where you would want Michael Crichton to use his time machine from Timeline so he could fast forward to the future and take notes of the formula that worked so well in books he wrote later and were more successful.
It was just missing one thing for me: MORE FREAKING GORILLAS!* This is one of those rare books that has many great artwork covered editions.
The book was interesting in the second half with the first half using lot of technical jargon which almost made me abandon it halfway.
The author has described the African jungles so vividly that you visualise it right before your eyes.
There are the unusual twists and turns given the jungle backdrop, the tribals and the gorillas.
Otherwise this is a good book to read.After reading Congo I will see monkeys and apes with a lot more respect.
The gorilla is described to be far more docile creature than the chimpanzees, however fearsome they appear.
که هر کدام از این روزها در یک منطقه و البته هرکدام یک فصل از این کتاب را تشکیل داده استاین گروه نه تنها با قبایل وحشی و آدمخوار همچون «کیگانی ها»، باید سرشاخ شوند، بلکه با یک ارتش وحشی و جانی به فرماندهی ژنرال «موگارو» نیز باید دست و پنجه نرم کننددر روز آخر آتشفشان «موکنکو» که شهر «اینجی» را تبدیل به یک افسانه کرده است، فوران کرده و زمین لرزه و صاعقه های وحشتناک این گروه را اسیر خود میکند و آنها را به بدترین شکل ممکن مجروح کرده و می کشد و از طرفی «کیگانی ها» هواپیمای آنها را محاصره کرده و به آتش میکشند، اما با کشته شدن جادوگر قبیله خود، صحنه را ترک میکننداز این گروه، آن گوریل به نام «امی»، «کارن راس» محقق، «پیتر الیوت» دکتر و جانور شناس تیم، «چارلز مونرو» و «کاهگا» توانستند به وسیلۀ بالن پلاستیکی از آن جهنم جان سالم بدر ببرند...
Clearly, this is an author on the rise.Congo works in the same way that Sphere (1987) and Jurassic Park (1990) -- my favorite Crichton titles -- work.
Sphere is great, so everyone must have quite naturally expected that Crichton would begin the 1990s with his authorial decline.But then:In Jurassic Park, dinosaurs are brought back to life through cloning technology on a privately owned tropical island.
However, perhaps this is only if we measure Crichton against himself.And it does not change the fact that Congo, Sphere, and Jurassic Park should be considered a required "trilogy" for all geeks -- sorry -- I meant "required reading for all 'techno thriller enthusiasts.'"
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Battle of the Sexes: "Congo" by Michael Crichton(Original Review, 1980-11-15)Here is how Michael Crichton describes Amy, the principal love object in "Congo": "She could be coy, she responded to flattery, she was preoccupied with her appearance, loved make-up, and was very fussy about the collar of the sweaters she wore in the winter." Although she is quite short, Amy weighs 140 pounds.
She has a vocabulary of 620 words, which is remarkably good for a gorilla.
Her feminine wiles have been confined to technology.
What did I think?What did I think?!?This book has:-Talking monkeys-Sinister Japanese businessmen-Lasers-Laser guns-The actual phrase "laser gun"-Cannibals-African revolutionaries-Hippo attacks-Blue diamonds-Wildly inaccurate predictions about the future of supercomputing-Supercomputers-Speculation on the nature of language-Gorillas bred to kill-Milquetoast academics forced by circumstance into acts of badassery-Sky-diving gorillas-An ancient lost city called Zinj-A volcanic eruptionand a flipping hot air balloon.So what do you think I think?It was really fun.
I saw this on Chris' list and it triggered an old, funny memory.
Now, I did read this book -- back in high school I went through a Michael Crichton phase and his books being as they are, I managed to read through his -- dare I say oevure?
-- in a summer (don't recall which summer, tho')The odd memory that Chris triggered however, has to to do with the movie Congo.
The point is, Saturday nights I'd ask him:"What are you doing tonight?""We rented Congo.""You rented that last week.""..."And -- not lying -- we had the exchange roughly twice a month for the life of their relationship (about the length of the school year).
I read this for my new series Book v. Movie. Episode One airs July 28th here: www.youtube.com/EdwardLorn
Amy the talking Gorilla simply stood out, and I learned a good deal about the tropical rain forests of the Congo.My only gripes with the book were to do with a few logical loopholes - (view spoiler)[the logistics devised for landing the second team in Congo without anyone noticing wasn't convincing, Elliot's reason to take Amy to the Congo wasn't sound enough, the Gorilla trance during the final attack on listening to the recording was simply laughable  (hide spoiler)]The 5-page reference section at the end of the book linking his hundreds of references to particular paragraphs in the book simply flattened me.
A bonus stunner came when I read in the internet that (view spoiler)[in 2004, scientists discovered a new freakin ape species in the Congo for real as Crichton had postulated!
Just as bad as the movie.
BUT, the sign language using Gorilla and of course the secret of the "bad things" as Amy calls the aggressive gorillas (that they were made evil by evil humans) and the whole technology and advancement and the companies who build it are ALWAYS EVIL theme was for me just to much of a head slapper.
AND I believe it's possible to have those things without destroying nature and don't think all technological groups are out to destroy nature.The book is in other words at times silly...though not as silly as the movie with Amy's "talking backpack"...
One example in this book; at one point, you’ll spend 3 pages reading about the biology, habitat, and behavior of hippos in order to build up to a 1/2 page confrontation with a bull hippo.
Often, Crichton spends to much time on these lectures and not enough on his plot and characters.
In this book, you learn a lot about gorillas, animal husbandry, African ecosystems and electrical engineering, but this is all at the expense of plot build, character development, and good dialogue; of which there is none.
For a 316 page book, it took me way to long to read.
It's like he has this great idea, but can't figure out a way for his protagonists to create a successful ending.
Andromeda Strain, the virus floats off into space--woo hoo.
Sphere--the whole adventure was imaginary, woo hoo.
Congo, earthquake wipes out all the lovely evidence and negates the whole adventure...boo hoo.
Ocassionally MC will get it right, but even with Juraissic Park, where the characters manage to escape with their lives--the ending is still ambivalent.
Quit being so wishy-washy MC and give us an ending we can sink our teeth into!
I can say that the book is definitely better than the movie, but still a far cry from Crichton’s best.One thing that Crichton has never excelled at is in-depth characters and Congo does nothing to make an exception of that.
Of the other characters, Karen Ross is the callous geologist who shows no empathy for her colleagues and whose mind is only on money and the mission of finding diamonds in the lost city of Zinj.
He’s also just an all around bad-ass.The story gets going immediately as an expedition into the Congo is wiped out by mysterious assailants on the hunt for diamonds.
Not that it is bad, it was just boring for me.
Even the scenes where they were attacked were pretty boring.
I know the author tends to dedicate a big portion of the book on background research but in this case I just did not care much for any of it.
I felt the ending might be building up to something big but it got resolved in what seemed like to be a page or two.
I felt the author was just writing things on the paper just so he can meet some deadline or something.
This book is one of my favorite from Michael Crichton. The treasure hunting, the crazy adventure. I especially touch by the relationship between the chimpanze and human. Above all the adventure is really setting the heart pace on a wild rate. I also like the movie.
'The more experience and insight I obtain into human nature, the more convinced do o become that the greater portion of a man is purely animal'-Henry Morton Stanley,1887.INTRO.Only prejudice, and a trick of the Mercator's projection, prevents us from recognizing the enormity of the African continent.Covering nearly twelve million square miles,Africa is almost as large as North America and Europe combined.
It is nearly twice the size of South America.
Uma expedição a selvas de África. Um mundo violento, canibalista e opressivo.Relato os maus tratos com os animais. Principalmente com os gorilas. Contudo há alguns personagens que tem um grande carinho pelos animais selvagens.Por outro lado há um video comprometedor que demonstra a violência vivida no Congo.  "Congo" sensibiliza-nos pelo causa dos animais em vias de extinção.
Bah!, se deja leer y ya.Para mi gusto se lía demasiado con los datos (supongo que reales) sobre previsiones tecnológicas de finales de los 70. Hoy esas predicciones están desfasadas y suenan viejunas. Lo mismo nos combarde con datos técnicos sobre gorilas que sobre avance en microelectrónica o en predicciones de tecnología armamentística.La historia en sí no está mal, pero hay muchas cosas mejores que leer. Llega a las tres estrellas (de milagro) porque me lo he acabado y se lee fácil y con agrado, pero entre lo dicho y lo flojitos personajes pues eso, que no. 4,75/10 y gracias.
Specifically in the drainage basin of the Congo River, close to Zaire.The company in the story (ERTS) sends in a site team that records some success in possibly finding a good mining source for these diamonds.
But no one is sure what it is exactly, until someone clears up the image and finds what looks like a gray furred gorilla.
I will not spoil the story for you and this is one that is worth reading yourself to find out what is going on.As usual, Crichton is able to seamlessly blend in science and action and great characters to create a wonderfully engrossing story.
3.0 stars. Not his best book but much better than the movie made it appear to be. Overall, a decent read.
But gorillas are okay.According to Dr Naan - one who is seemingly incapable of giving a straight fucking answer when he gets asked about his UK Visa, and yet can articulate like Shakespeare - when it comes to all his controversial scientific theories - some 80% of females aged 15 - 40 are expected to have had at least one sexual dream, in which they get raped by three gorillas simultaneously.
These not just nice".Elliot: Oh God, I think I just saw a gorilla behind that tree".Michael: "I believe the correct term, Doctor, is Beringei".Elliot: "Is that their scientific name or something?"Benjamin: "Okay, guys, who gives a shit - Where is it?
This was a thrilling adventure, and Crichton gave the story a deal of credibility by interjecting so much scientific and technological detail into it (view spoiler)[Remember, this is a story with a skydiving gorilla in it.
Additionally, the characters tasked with finding the lost city of Zinj -- expedition leader Karen Ross, mercenary Charles Munro, gorilla expert Peter Elliot, and of course, female gorilla Amy -- were very well developed considering how fast the story moved and the length of the novel.However, while I really do like the directness of Crichton's prose, the novel was a bit too frenetic to build the tension that Crichton seemed to desire, and the deus ex machina ending (view spoiler)[The remaining team members escaping in a hot air balloon found inside the crashed plane.
(hide spoiler)] seemed rather convenient considering the difficulties the characters had travelling to that point.
Crichton is not the most subtle when it comes to foreshadowing. I enjoyed this but wasn't impressed. The ending was full of action and somehow anti-climactic at the same time. However, I do recommend it to fans of techno-thrillers.
Based on a few seconds of video footage they were able to capture from the event that killed their previous team, Ross decides she wants to take a primate expert with her, and contacts a scientist who is experimenting with teaching communication skills to a young female ape named Amy, who becomes an important figure in the story, and even has a good portion of dialogue throughout.
The team does exactly what they need to do to get out of every conflict that cropped up in the final chapter and we are left with a fairly small epilogue to wrap everything up, which it really doesn’t do.​Overall I’m giving this one 3.5 stars, and I’m crossing my fingers that the next Crichton novel I read is better.
Nebija wow, bet nebija arī meh - saprotu, ka lasītājam pirms 35 gadiem, pat mazāk- kaut vai 90tajos, šis darbs piedāvāja aizraujošāku un pārsteidzošāku lasījumu.
Tagad datori ir ikdienas realitāte, un ja vien džungļos būtu mobilais internets, vairums no mums ar savu glāstekli varētu izdarīt daudzas no grāmatā aprakstītajām funkcijām.
Patika vietas, kur ierunājās Kraitons - antropologs - par dzīvnieku lomu cilvēku sabiedrībā, par valodām, par vēsturi, mazāk - Kraitons fantasts, kaut arī sižetam oriģinālu elementu netrūka.Yotubā apskatoties šīs filmas treileri, sapratu, kait kad bērnībā esmu redzējusi, un atkārtot negribas, turklāt Holivuda, protams, atkal dramatizējusi sižetu un dabiezinājusi krāsas.
Liked Amy the gorilla. Liked the descriptions of the rainforest in the Congo. A so-so story.
Enjoyed this immensely! I have vague recollections of the movie, group goes to the Congo, take a communicating gorilla, bad gorillas attack, volcanic eruptions and Tim Curry haha but the book is so much better. I loved the amount of detail, the science parts, the historical parts and the 'atmosphere' that the author evoked of being in the Congo, brilliant!
an outdated sci-fi is never a good written sci-fi. as an IT expert it was such a pain reading through false promises of technology and some how bold yet compeletly wrong & dumb visions of future.of course as usual with Crichton, he just can't seem to finish his books properly, so yes, another totally underwhelming ending. strongly not recommended for reading.
