https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48834.I_Have_Lived_a_Thousand_Years
Every memoir or account like this is unique and essential in helping us remember and experience though words a time of madness, of shocking and shameful atrocities and a time when people turned their backs while their neighbours and friends The book is informative and insightful and you certainly feel emotion on reading this account.
I listened to this one on audio and the narrator was excellent.
I cannot resist the urge to compare and contrast this book with Shanghai Diary: A Young Girl's Journey from Hitler's Hate to War-Torn China, which I read prior to this one.
Bitton-Jackson's memoir has bared the horrifying details of a young girl's experience in the sub-human conditions in railway cars, work details and concentration camps.Both authors have imparted their thoughts and feelings engendering palpable visions for the reader.
Viewing the aforementioned exhibits and reading these books reaffirms my feelings of certainty that my family would have been victims also.
This might be one of the best Holocaust books I have read. A true account of the author as a 13 year old from Hungary sent to Auschwitz and then Dachau. Violent, haunting, grisly, hopeful, brave, and astonishing. A lump in your throat, tears rolling down your cheeks account that makes you count your blessings. Thank you Mrs. Hancock and 6th grade for recommending this life changing book.
What sets Bitton-Jackson's Holocaust memoir apart from the others is that it is simultaneously poetic and graphic.
No friendship or love binds as this deep, spontaneous, easy mutuality." The graphic description of concentration camp food is clearer than any I've read elsewhere:"I snatch the bread from Mommy's hand (she had refused to eat it) and begin to eat.
"When the bowl of food is handed to me, I am unable to take a gulp.
You tilt the bowl until the mass slides to the edge, then gulp.
We will take good care of you" the daughter's response is "I am surely dreaming."A stunning Holocaust memoir, simultaneously poetic and graphic.
I have to stop reading holocaust books.......
The one I am reading now is a YA book, but I think it is one of the most gripping I have ever read.
With little details the author puts you there in the concentration camp, naked, without clothes, in the showers, having your hair shorn off, being served soup filled with white squirming worms........No other holocaust book has done this to me so grittingly.
Please note that the author, who is writing about herself, is only 13 years old.
Excellent, moving writing.
After this, I need a breather from holocaust literature.
The first time I visited a synagogue, it was with a group of students and Ms Livia Bitton-Jackson was our teacher in Lehman College , the Bronx, New York, 1998.
Ms Bitton-Jackson told us the story of that pretty picture of her on the cover of the book.
A time when she often shared raw potatoes secretly with the other prisoners.
That is the picture used in this book cover.
I have to also share that Livia was at the time I studied with her, the woman with the most astonishing beauty.
Oh. My. Freaking. God.I have no words to describe this.
A story that you really don't want to know about. BUT IT DID HAPPEN. So, you must read it to help you understand what took place and how the Jews were dealt with. Not a pretty picture described by Livia Britton-Jackson. How she and some of her family survived is unreal.I need to reread this again so I won't forget the terrible events that took place in the concentration camps.

Bitton-Jackson's frank and compelling memoir details the loss of her childhood to the Holocaust, surviving the concentration camps, and finding her way back home with her mother and brother, only to find everything destroyed (except for the jewelry buried in the basement), and her father dead, two weeks before liberation.
More than just a Holocaust memoir, this is a coming of age story of a young girl and her relationship with her mother.
The pain, suffering, the magnitude of cruelty that humans can inflict upon other humans beings is just too much for me to comprehend, but I keep reading Holocaust books.
I just finished reading this with my two teenagers.
We read this for our WWII homeschool unit.
Such a well written book.
Not only does it tell the account of Ellie, (a teenage Holocaust victim), living in a concentration camp.
It also gives her account of labor camps, ghetto, and briefly her life after the war.
There are 2 more books to this account.
My kids don’t want to read them.
However, I will be reading them.
Loved the writing and want to know more.
My kids were shocked at some of the things that happened in the book.
I have read a number of books about this time period but this was the first one where I felt they were able to adequately describe what it felt like to be slowly dehumanized.
The times when she was able to naively adjust to the new way of living only to have it stripped away again and face a new degrading horror.
You can never truly understand what it was like for the millions but I believe that this book gives you a glimpse of what they felt.
My hope is that learning about past evils will help us avoid them in the future.
I could not put this book down.
I will admit it was quite depressing at times as a "human being" that these terrible thing's took place and quite scary that something of this magnitude occured.
The writing in this book is simple and straight foward.
There are no words to say how sorry I am to them for this terrible injustice.
This book should be a must read in every school across the country.
I will pass it on to my four children as such in my home so that they can read and remember "just how hard life can be."
There are but a handful of books who manage to take you to the heart of the nightmare that was the Holocaust. This is simply one of them. The pain, the horror and then that small simmer of hope - that too through the eyes of a 14 year old. This book is a must read.
wow... I have even more appreciation of the event after visiting a concentration camp last May in Germany. Truly an experience I'll never forget.
Content notes to help you decide whether to read or recommend this book:The author was 13 and living in a Hungarian town in Czechoslovakia at the start of her memoir and she was 14 at the end of the war.
She would have been murdered on arrival at Auschwitz if the man sorting the adult women from the elderly and children had not liked the look of her blonde hair and told her 'you're sixteen now'.
She behaves with compassion at all times and her will to survive is unbroken.I consider this book suitable for some young adults.
A note from my Holocaust education training: don't try to explain.
I read it with the impression that it is another book about concentration camp life and eventually the liberation.
But I was so impressed by her abilty to tell a story recalling what it was like as 13 year old going through it all.
When they were liberated I read it like any other chapter but when I read the word Freedom I wept, I am talking cried out loud.
I felt a deep desperation as i read and an over whelming gratefulness when "we " found freedom.
A must read to "feel" life again and be grateful we have the freedoms we do.
and she has to wear a yellow star.Childhood ends for Ellie as she and her family are first moved to a ghetto and then to the labor camps.Ellie's story is about family, faith, and the will to survive.I don't know why but lately I find myself reading more and more books with WW-II and / or the Holocaust as the main subject matter.
I think it's especially important for the younger generation to read about the Holocaust, especially as I don't think the schools teach this in history any more.
This was such a heartbreaking story, as I knew it would be.
And yet, among all the horrors thirteen year old Elli was enduring, was her strength and her incredible will to survive.
I was just amazed at her strength!
I thought Elli's voice set a perfect tone for this book and the telling of her story.
She writes very simply, and yet her words pack a huge punch.
You can really hear the poet in her come through in her writing style.
This was definitely not an easy read, as you would expect from any book dealing with the Holocaust.
Elli is truly an inspiration.
I just previewed this book to see if I could recommend it to my students, as we are currently studying the Holocaust.
I have read many books on the Holocaust, but this one especially moved me.
Perhaps because it is written by a woman (Livia Bitton-Jackson)who endured Auschwitz and various other camps when she was only thirteen years old.
Livia's perspective is especially poignant.
When Livia asked the woman how old she thought she was, the woman replied, "Sixty or sixty-five." Livia was only fourteen when she was liberated.
I highly recommend this book.
This is a true story about a brilliant, stoic, and brave young Jewish girl from Hungary who lived through the devastation of concentration camps in the Holocaust. Pain, ridicule, hunger, starvation, thirst, abuse, torture, are just some of what she and her family endured. It is a miracle that she survived to write her story. I couldn't put this book down.
At 13, Livia Bitton-Jackson finds hope and miracles while journeying through the massive horror of the Holocaust. She reminded me to pause to listen to people who have stories that must be told. And to not turn away from injustices.
Easy read~ I would recommend this book to mature teens.The story of the author growing up in the Holocaust.... written by a young girl's view point in first person. The book makes you feel apart of the family and glimpse into what their life was in several different death/work camps.
I think this is the most chilling account I've heard about what happens within the camps during the Holocaust. Anne Frank hides and doesn't survive to tell the tale of Bergen-Belsen, but Ellie, by a stroke of luck not granted to many, she lives through Auschwitz, Dachau, and forced factory labor. What she sees, what she remembers...it's horrifying. In the end, I know it was best for me to read this, hard as it was to watch the horror that was this beyond tragic time.
What an amazing book! The way that Livia told her story as a young girl, called Elli, was wonderful. I cannot wait to read the next book in the series, as well as the book she published before these two, called simply, Elli. Elli and her family were taken to Nazi Concentration camps but miraculously survive. The way that Livia told her story and the details that she provided in the books were terrible, yet so eye opening. This is a wonderful book!
Wow. The last ten chapters leading up to their liberation really got me. You can read book after book of nonfiction regarding the concentration camps... and it's still just unbelievable what they endured. I'm thankful we have these survivors who were willing to share their painful stories with us. It's important to acknowledge what they went through.
Loved this book definite heart hitter
.
The story did not leave me as depressed as others in this genre, rather I thoroughly enjoyed the message created by the author that one should "never give up." I recommend this novel for anyone that enjoys reading about historical events.The story is about a Jewish girl (Elli Friedmann) growing up during the Holocaust.
On their journey from camp many of the inmates are murdered when they try to escape, but Elli and her family are able to survive by sticking together.
Elli discovers that she, her mother, and her brother are the only survivors in her family.
Horrifying MemoirI've read quite a number of Holocaust stories in my long life, and I Have Lived a Thousand Years, by Livia Britton-Jackson sits with all the others in terms of corroborating the terrible atrocities inflicted on the Jews in the concentration camps.
The first person narrative told by a witness is powerful, but the audiobook version seems to magnify the horrific circumstances of a 13 year old girl who is torn from her home and managesto stay connected to her mother as they are forced into a ghetto and ultimately end up in Auschwitz.The audiobook reader has a pleasant voice and reads with various degrees of expression and passion, but it took awhile to believe that hers was the voice behind the memoir.
