https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3023550-the-oxford-dictionary-of-quotations
4.0 stars. While it would not be accurate to say that I have "read" this entire book, I have been using it fairly extensively since I acquired it in 1991 as part of an 8 volume leather bound set from Easton Press called the "Complete Oxford Reference Set." I have found it to be an excellent reference tool that is both easy to use and comprehensive.
I have the Margaret Drabble edited Dictionary which I have owned since it was published - 25 or so years ago. I still use it as a prime source for references, for letters and writing and simply for browsing for the serendipity of finding an unfamiliar quotation. It is an excellent edition and I have found no reason to buy any later one.
I've had this volume for decades.
The volume concludes with an extensive index, comprising hundreds of pags.
Quotations fill nearly several hundred pages.
George Savile, Marquis of Halifax: "Men are not hanged for stealing horses, but that horses may not be stolen." Victor Cousin: "Art for art's sake" (In French, "L'art pour l'art").
Such volumes can delight, as one relives well know sayings or discovers new ones.
The selections are arbitrary, no doubt, but the discovery that comes with perusal of the volume is most pleasing.
Fascinating to read / refer to in conjunction with other editions of the ODQ; so as to track how the accepted canon of popular literature has changed over the decades. Especially useful for anyone writing historical fiction or researching historical fact. And yes, it does make for a good bedside book, albeit a rather unwieldy and heavy one. Yet as an e-book I'd miss the pleasure of the physical sense of browsing the (over a thousand) pages.
No, I haven't read this book in its entirety.But in the last 15 years or so, I've still kept coming back to it again and again.Wether for a quick Latin or French quote, or a Shakespeare one, or any other kind of quote you might be interested in finding out about. This is a fun book to keep handy.I sometimes just pull it off the shelf and open it randomly and let myself be amused and amazed.
This is a book that needs to be on the 'on-going' shelf or bedside table. There's a quote for every mood and I find that it lifts my creative juices when I find myself in a dry corner. It has been sometime since I picked it up but right now it is at my feet!Many months later ..."Finished" somewhat - one can ever be finished with this!
This is the 1955 version of the familiar reference work and clearly illustrates the differences in literary influences and cultural touchstones as time passes. Still a good reference and an interesting document of changing intellectual tastes.
An excellent reference to have at hand. It's a bit Euro- and UK-centric but it's not on the shelf alone so that shouldn't matter. Quite different from the Bartlett's Familiar Quotations that's so much more familiar to Americans, the ODQ emphasizes more formal sources.
I own a lovely old second edition copy from 1953...and I simply adore it. A beautiful & simple guide when searching for some of the greatest sound bites ever produced by voice, or transcribed to paper by pen. I treasure this compilation.
This third edition is the first substantial revision since the first edition of 1941.Brandon Thomas and Dylan Thomas have found their way in: "I'm Charley's aunt from Brazil - where the nuts come from".
Great resource. Tough to read all the way through. To many twists and turns for my taste.
An excellent reference tool that is easy to use
Second edition. Revised and reset.
A wonderful collection as always.
Old school quotations. Occasionally useful.
Still learning ...
Great reference volume.
I love quotes...and my friend Ed with the quote Never let the past fetter the future - gave me this book as a gift. It came in handy when I needed a quote to start off an essay...
If I'm ever asked to go anywhere with only one book, it will be this book. It's all the best pieces from just about every author that ever wrote
My desert island book. It has lived at my bedside for 25 years - an invaluable source of great wisdom, beauty, humour and philosophy. A book for all emotions; a book to last a lifetime.
Lots of good one-liners, but a very weak plot.
Love this book. It is hugely helpful in writing speeches, papers and just having a nice quotation every now and then. It is one of the most used books on my refrence shelf.
