https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/905914.Preaching_and_Preachers
“What is the chief end of preaching?” asks Lloyd-Jones.
Above all he stresses that without the anointing of the Holy Spirit and the favor of God, one’s time and labor over a sermon are in vain.Preaching and Preachers has become a classic because it has challenged, helped and encouraged numerous pastors since its publication.
It has done so because Lloyd-Jones was a man whose pulpit ministry was used of the Lord.
But he also had their respect and admiration.Referring to the “romance” of preaching, Lloyd-Jones writes, “There is nothing like it.
This book is timely in calling us back to a right reverence of preaching as that is and will always be God's means of calling sinners to Himself along with building up the church.
I can think of an old man who often used the following expression: ‘You know, friends, I decided for Christ forty years ago, and I have never regretted it.’What a terrible thing to say!
The convicted sinner no more ‘decides’for Christ than the poor drowning man ‘decides’to take hold of that rope that is thrown to him and suddenly provides him with the only means of escape.
About "Preaching & Preachers" Warren Wiersbe said, "I urge my fellow preachers to read this book at least twice: once to disagree and once to be helped."I think this most adequately describes my feelings toward my first read of P&P.
I've thought about engaging with some of his thought in regards to the primacy of the preacher and the rest of the congregation, but for now just a couple of thoughts.-First and foremost, the chapter on the calling of the preacher is worth the price of the book alone.
That chapter will be the place that I start forwarding friends who tell me that they think they're called to be pastors.
A must read for pastors and those called to the pastorate. While I don't agree with everything "the Doctor" says, I believe he does a phenomenal job espousing in great detail the seriousness of the preacher and the dire need of true preaching.If you are called to preach, read this book.
If you’ve ever had a favorite professor, and it didn’t matter what he was teaching, you just enjoyed sitting and listening to him- that’s what it feels like to read this book!
Don’t worry, it doesn’t feel dated!
Jones critiques many things in the Evangelical movement of his day and says that he’s seen them all before under different names.
Perhaps the thing I love most about this book is how opinionated Jones is!
While this book isn’t written as a manual to teach you how to prepare a sermon, it will make you a better preacher if you engage with its truths.
I had a sense of God's call to preach and this was the first book I read to help me understand what it is all about.
I had to learn that no-one else can preach like him and that he had very particular views on what a preacher should or shouldn't do (e.g. he said a preacher shouldn't collect funny stories or illustrations because that would be too professional and might tempt a preacher to merely entertain the congregation), but the advice he gives is still interesting.
Read it to get a passion for preaching the word.
Great, inspiring, and controversial. Here's one I'll come back to regularly.
I felt the book was very conflicted in it's advice to young ministers and was really not worth the time.
It made me see and love the ministry of the Word in profoundly deep ways.
It caused me to think and interact with what the preaching ministry is.
This book was used by the Spirit in great ways during the last couple of months.
While reading it felt as though I was in a conversation good friend that sharpened my soul.
A must-read for anyone in or seeking to enter into the pastoral ministry.
I am confident I will come back to this book again and again.
This is a phenomenal book.
As any reader of this book, I disagree with some of MLJ’s opinions on preaching and church services.
But apart from a few of those minor points, this work has deeply impacted me.
MLJ captures the character and purpose of preaching well.
He does not apologize for the Word, but rather argues that the entire church is to sit reverently under the Preaching of the Word.
Chapters I gleaned from: Ch 14- against Altar Calls and emotionalism Ch 5- the act of preaching (qualities of delivery)Ch 9- the preparation of the preacher
This classic book by Dr. Jones is most excellent.
He never beats around the bush but hits every issue head on with no reservation.
He makes helpful points concerning spiritual preparation, sermon preservation, and certain details concerning the preaching of God’s Word.Dr. Jones is known for being rather confident, which helps his listeners and readers know what he’s thinking.
This also makes it evident when some disagree with him on some points.
Some will agree and others will disagree with Dr. Jones, but everyone can respect his opinion and reasoning.I would recommend this book to all who are entering or beginning preaching ministry.
Deeply convicting. Lloyd-Jones has given us an extended illustration of the primary function of the church in every age. Preachers, whatever your theological persuasion, this book will push you, and maybe even offend you, at points. But it ought also to inspire you.
This goes on my re-read list.
Martyn Lloyd-Jones is a wonderful book that emphasizes the man more than the art of preaching and spiritual preparation more than sermon preparation.
The author contends that the most urgent trend in the church and world is true preaching.
While the book was published in 1971, I believe the Doctor would cling to his original statement if he were alive today.The author discusses the reason for preaching’s decline and makes the case for the priority of preaching based on Scripture and church history.
He adds that serious preachers need to regularly read the Bible systematically and maintain good reading habits that include a study of theology, church history, biographies and apologetics.This book has many strong points.
A few highlights: - I really appreciate his passionate defence of preaching as the primary and central activity of ministry.
I would think that someone considering ministry could read this chapter and leave the whole book until later.
- Lots of very practical comments giving MLJ's opinion about various specific matters (notes vs full text, illustrations, patterns of preparation, preparing series, etc etc) - Preachers should not directly pressure the will, but first address the mind (convince of the truth) and then the affections (help feel the weight of the issue) and so only indirectly the will.
Very good.
Lots of interesting anecdotes.
Lloyd-Jones tends to make a lot of absolute and generalized statements, so you may find yourself disagreeing or wanting to throw in some caveats here and there (I certainly did).
Read Stott for a more careful, precise understanding of preaching; read Lloyd-Jones just for the fun of it.
Another drawback is that Lloyd-Jones' low church preferences lead him to neglect altogether the question of the significance of the sermon as part of the church's liturgy.
One gets the impression that the Sunday service is really just an excuse to hear preaching—which may in fact be his view, actually.

What makes a man a preacher? What place does preaching have? What constitutes a good sermon? These are among the many questions that Lloyd-Jones addresses in this book – originally a series of lectures. He is helpfully blunt and forceful in his assertions, and I agree with far more of his claims than not. Preaching is a challenging task and the stakes are high. Lloyd-Jones has provided an insightful resource into the heart of this important work.
I read this because my friend Paul told me about it. It is OK, but it didn't keep my attention as I went through it. I think I left and came back to the book something like 5 times (it is Jones' lectures in book form). In the end it is worth the read, especially the comments at the end of various chapter's by people like Tim Keller. I only got the kindle edition, so I cannot speak to any others.
I read Preachers and Preaching in Bible school forty years ago. I shaped how I preached by shaping how I prepared. It also shaped how I listened to preaching. Lloyd-Jones was an extremely gifted, committed man. His sermons were excellent as were his books (transcribed sermons).
After a long interval, I've returned to this book and wonder why it hasn't rated higher in my library. Easily one of the top 5 books on the subject of preaching that I've read to this point and one that I hope to make a more constant companion in my reading from here on out.
Ought to be required reading for anyone perusing ministry. Whether its "the best book in preaching" is up for debate but one thing is certain, Lloyd-Jones will create in you a fire for the ministry of God's word that is unmatched in today's how-to's. Pick it up and fall in love with preaching
This book was very helpful to me. Sometimes Lloyd-Jones comes off a bit opinionated and I don't agree with some of his conclusions. But I don't need to agree with a man on all points to benefit from his insight. This is worth multiple readings.
A book full of practical wisdom and discernment in regard to preaching. I didn't agree with everything, but this book was incredibly engaging.
Really good. Lloyd-Jones loved preaching, and this book makes you want to love it like he did.
Terrific book on preaching, better than any other I've read.
Lloyd-Jones has little patience for method and wants to see more that the preacher is well-prepared, spiritually discerning, and faithful in the task.
His Calvinistic theology is by no means hard to spot, and he has little patience for the manipulative methods of the modern era.
Some might contend that his pneumatology is a little squishy in the final section when he describes "unction" as a component in preaching based on the events of Pentecost and the whole of Acts.
Dr. Lloyd-Jones challenges and instructs with the wisdom of a well-seasoned preacher and man of God. His passion are dripping from his words, and you will likely catch some of it just reading it!
We are just as in need of the same Gospel we preach as our hearers are...I give this book 5 stars and a hearty recommendation as one of the essentials to anyone wanting to grow in their passion for proclaiming God's Word with clarity, faithfulness, conviction, power and passion.
This book dates back to 1972.
It is not old, but it is older than most of the dreck my generation is reading.
It is also from across the pond, which is refreshing due to its straightforward and discompassionate style of writing.
The book is about preaching and preachers.
Funny how things work.
This is why a preacher needs to be careful to put all his strength behind passing fads.
But I am grateful for wisdom.
There are nuggets galore in this 40 year old work.
I am grateful for this man's words, his work, and his ministry.
Sin duda alguna el mejor y mas completo libro de predicación que he tenido el privilegio de leer.
Con simplicidad y consistencia el Dr. Martin aborda desde los aspectos más conceptuales de la predicación como su primacía y lugar en la liturgia (Cap 1), hasta consejos prácticos sobre el predicador (Cap 6), la preparación del sermón (Cap 10), la congregación (Cap 7), el contenido del sermón(Cap 8), etc.
Si el lector es un joven predicador (mi caso), encontrará una guía muy amplia de consejos y advertencias sobre la predicación y su esencia.

