https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5231173-twenty-boy-summer
In my opinion, this novel has a particularly originality to it that I couldn’t quite express eloquently but perhaps you’ll understand when you read the book.
I picked this book up hoping to enjoy some warmth and fluff from a Summery read and although the story is in many parts heartwarming, there is nothing fluffy about it.
I don’t completely agree with their idea of fun and that’s probably my main complaint about the novel but to each her own, right?.
This book was an emotional roller coaster ride, it made me smile one moment, cry the next, smile some more, cry again but at the end it left me feeling good.
I always note my favourite quotes when reading a book and this one had so many that I loved, I had a hard time choosing just one to include in my review.I liked Anna she was a relatable character who I cared about and just wanted everything for her to turn out okay.
But Frankie I struggle to like at times, she was too self centred, but I guess that is the way she dealt with her loss and by the end she mature somewhat.
This little cutie, a YA that I added on what I honestly think was almost on day one of GR, I actually came across just last week at my library.
Probably not!This was a sweet coming of age, the mourning of the death of both brother and boyfriend for two best girlfriends, and the way they realise this unique relationship that each actually did hold to this boy.
The loss of the boyfriend is not forever, as it was something that was not yet known, and such early days.These two girls were young and quirky, especially when together.
First off, let me just say that I LOVE the cover for this book!
And I love that the book has all these references to sea glass, just like the awesomely beautiful cover.
And the pages between the fantastic cover are just as awesome.
I totally understood Anna, I got her right away, but it took me the entire novel to finally get Frankie.
Ockler's depiction of Anna's emotions was beyond spectacular, I can't even begin to imagine how it felt to write that, because I know how it made me feel reading it.
Matt’s life is stripped away too soon and the rest of the novel takes you on a journey of the meaning of friendship, grief and forgiveness.I came to care for all of the characters in this novel, especially and surprisingly the summer fling, Sam. I liked how the author left the ending slightly unfinished when it came to Sam because it allowed my imagination to float to my own conclusion for him and Anna possibly crossing paths in the future.
Overall, I feel fans of books such as The Sky Is Everywhere, Winter Longing and The Truth about Forever will enjoy Ockler’s novel Twenty Boy Summer.
The month is young though..Twenty Boy Summer first made me think that someone was going to be a little adventurous in the boy department.
Straight up thought she was going to commit and date 20 guys in one summer.
but my eyes were like bugging out of my head.
Thankfully, this book was nothing like that.In this book, you will meet Anna and Frankie.
This is probably because of how realistic this book was in my eyes and it was also something different for YA books.
You can't tell what kind of book this really is.On one side, you have two best friends wanting to have a fun summer.
Frankie can mope and all that, and she can get mad at Anna for keeping Matt a secret from her (which is understandable seeing as how Anna wanted to forever keep it from her), but when her best friend loses her virginity because of her selfishness, all of a sudden everything's just great and fine and dandy.I'll say it again.
What kind of best friend does that?!And again, maybe Ockler was trying to come off as "hip", or some crap, since all people seem to want to do these days is have sex and get high, but honestly?Are you freaking kidding me right now?
SUPER SPOILER.AH!I was about 20 pages into a new book when this came in the mail, a few days late but still.I saw the package, tore it open and examined.
I plunked myself down on my bed and started reading.This book left me with a heart wrenching feeling.
I wanted to cry at the beginning when Matt died.
I wanted to be Anna, so so badly at her birthday party.
It was horrible for her to accept the twenty boy idea, when she still loved Matt and wanted to believe he was alive.
I believe in love all over again.
It's the kind of story that hits you hard then slowly grabs your hand and walks you through it.It's heart breaking and heart warming at the same time.This was such an amazing book and this is yet another one that I'm kicking myself for not reading sooner ( Alexa, I'm so stalking your shelves for now on babe).At first I wasn't sure that I could sympathize with Anna's lost since Matt was taken away pretty quick in the book, so I couldn't feel a connection to them right away, but as the story went on, Anna took his memories with her and then all I felt was sad.
But I didn't really walk away from this book feeling sad, there were still a lot of funny and heart warming moments scattered in this book.
I didn't enjoy Twenty Boy Summer like I expected I would. It was just OK for me with not much excitement or emotion.3***
The beginning and end of the book were great to read and a solid 4 stars.
Most of the middle part of the book was 1 star.
I zipped through the book fairly quickly and liked the idea for the story, but think I wanted more out of the actual vacation and "20 boy challenge" than what was given.
Mildish spoilers ahead :What I liked :Anna and Matt's relationship.
Anna stepping out and finding Sam.Anna learning to work through her lingering feelings for Matt, and finding a way to get some sort of closure.What I didn't like :Frankie.
This relationship sort of confused me.
Always edifying.These life experiences are our early teachers in higher education, and as such they are more often than not, hard task masters.I believe this quote by Charles Dickens from A Tale of Two Cities is most befitting of that period in our lives....It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to heaven, we were all going direct the other way - in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.Charles Dickens, A Tale of Two CitiesEnglish novelist (1812 - 1870)   4★s*Many thanks to my GR friend Suzanne for recommending this book, so glad to have read it.
How wrong I was.Twenty Boy Summer follows Anna through her summer, where she grieves the dead of the brother of her best friend and boyfriend Matt, the only problem, no one knew they were together.
But you do get why she is necessary in the story, aside from the fact that she adds a little spark and humor to it.Anna was simply a character that leaved a mark on me, and a total opposite to Frankie.This is Sarah Ockler’s first novel, and reminded me of Sarah Dessen’s novels, which is a great compliment.
Twenty Boy Summer is a story in which I loved to live, and leaved a mark in my heart.
This book tells the story of two best friends, Frankie and Anna dealing with the loss of a brother and a lover respectively.
It happened and it was impossible and beautiful and then it ended before it even really began, leaving nothing behind but secrets and broken hearts.”However, Anna is overwhelmed by the guilt from not telling Frankie that she was in love and had a relationship with Matt, who made her promise to keep it a secret.
This book was an easy read and it has quite a few light-hearted moments, however it still brings out serious questions like coping with loss of beloved ones, and keeping secrets that could jeopardize your relationship between a person who trusts you.
“When someone you love dies, people ask you how you're doing, but they don't really want to know. They seek affirmation that you're okay, that you appreciate their concern, that life goes on and so can they. Secretly they wonder when the statute of limitations on asking expires (its three months, by the way. Written or unwritten, that's about all the time it takes for people to forget the one thing that you never will.” When Matt dies, Anna has no idea what to do with herself. Not only has she
After a month of sneaky meetings (to spare Frankie’s – Matt’s sister – feelings), Anna has no idea what exactly they are.
Exactly one year later, Anna joins Frankie and her parents on a holiday to California.
It’s a holiday that will change the girls separately and their friendship forever.When I bought Twenty Boy Summer, I was expecting a light, fluffy, chicklit-y read about two girls going on a holiday and the awkward horrors of dating.
Nevertheless, as the book progresses, it’s clearly that even after a year, Anna still hasn’t forgotten Matt in the slightest.
Shortly after their first kiss, Matt dies unexpectedly and leaves Anna alone with their secret and a grief that she can't really express, especially not around his sister and her best friend, Frankie.Twenty Boy Summer takes place one year after the tragic incident.
I have a hard time imagining that parents really are that clueless and uninterested in their daughter’s whereabouts.Nevertheless, Twenty Boy Summer is a book that will stay on my mind not only for the emotional ride it took me on, but also because it clearly is more than the cute and light beach read its cover suggests.
Sometimes when I'm with him, something will remind me of Matt.
There were so many - my copy is covered in sticky notes, favourite passages that I wish I had written myself.
Seriously, this book is full of beauty, it was so hard not to put a sticky note on every single page.On the cover of my copy, Jo Knowles describes Twenty Boy Summer: "Breaks your heart and puts it back together again." That's exactly how I felt.
Matt.
Especially Matt.
Thanks to Nomes for sending one of her copies my way :)
And while there are certainly elements of that, dig a bit deeper and there is this raw, aching grief festering just below the surface, as everyone Matt loved tries their best to carry on in their own way.
I was tempted to roll my eyes at some of the conversations between Anna and Frankie, especially the nonchalant way they were discussing Anna's virginity, and how this was the perfect time for her to lose it.
It was tempting to dislike Frankie, with her shallow, prima donna attitude and her unwillingness to discuss anything but boys, makeup, and sex.
This isn't a story about boys and summer love and fun on the beach.
This is a beautifully written novel about love, friendship, and the things we carry with us long after the moments in which we experience them end.
It balances an original teenage voice with prose and metaphor that will haunt you long after you put it down.
And as a writer, it made me want to re-read every line I've written in the past six months, in an attempt to strive for that sort of perfection.I fell in love with all the main characters, and had trouble deciding who I loved the most because each of them was so heartbreaking and real.
Anna is overjoyed but Matt wants to wait before he tells his sister, Frankie.
But it's when the prospect of a holiday arrives that thing really take a turn.Frankie isn't an easy person to like, so I wondered many times why Anna stuck with her.
Soon enough though, personally, I started to feel like she was in love with the idea of being in love with Matt.
She spends so much of the novel telling us of the sweet moments they shared, of her love for him, only to fall for Sam and realise that what she felt for Matt was nothing compared to how she felt for Sam.
After his death, Anna keeps it all to her self, writing letters/journal entries and "talking" to him, while outwardly portraying her grief as that of best-friend-to-sister-of-Matt.
Matt's death wasn't due to carelessness, drunk driving, or anything "teachable": he had a heart defect and was unlucky enough to be driving (with Anna and Frankie) at the time.
Given that there was a lot of Anna "hearing" Matt's voice, talking to him, thinking about him, I expected something more in the way of self-reflection and internal conflict at times.
I really love this author's work and even though I didn't love all of this, the emotional connection of feeling something for these characters that are all struggling so much with their grief, was definitely there.Not my favorite Ockler book but a good one that brought out the feels.
And, of course, I have the stories, of how she calls me Mommy and Mom and sometimes Mommy Stephanie, how she comes to school with me on Saturday Publication work days, how she makes me laugh...it hurts to realize I used to think my life was complete without her.It's these two people, the brother I never knew and the person I didn't know who could make me, well, a better me, that I think about when I think about Twenty Boy Summer by Sarah Ockler.This book has so much in it and it speaks honestly about love, friendship, family and what it means to grieve the loss of a loved one.I am more than willing to believe that when you are still grieving the loss of someone you truly love that having sex for the first time helps to heal the wound, that blocking it out and drinking and pretending to have sexual exploits makes it a little easier to be alive and that when your child dies a piece of you dies and living doesn't even seem possible.
Every two pages we were reminded that Anna is smarter, that she just doesn't care about her appearance as much, and that she was a Virgin and her friend Was Not. The way that she treated her friend, not outwardly but inwardly, just made me mad.I understand that you looooved Matt but your best friend lost her brother.
She acted like her hurt was equal to Matt's and Frankie's hurt and it just seemed to rude.I just didn't like a lot about this book and three stars is generous.
It didn't make me feel like I was in the book.
Frankly, I just didn't feel.I didn't cry when Matt died.
Si alguna vez me ven leyendo otro libro con un corazón en la portada, no duden en dispararme. Me estarían haciendo un favor.
Things that continued to irritate me throughout the book was the author's constant need to point out Frankie's lack of vocabulary.
And if she's that dumb, do we need to keep seeing Anna correct her?
The constant corrections were as irritating as the grammatical mistakes.
The other thing that bothered me was the excruciating over-detailing of the story.
Ockler felt the need to throw in so many unnecessary details about everything.
I don't think that this is one that I will want to recommend to the teens which makes me feel as if I've wasted my evening with reading this book.
After reading Sarah Ockler’s “Twenty Boy Summer,” I feel like I’m 16 again, sunning on the beach, about to embark on an epic summer romance.
OK, I’m definitely not 16, not even close, but my point is Ockler’s writing is so transportive I dare anyone to read her debut novel and not think they’re on a beach.
Summer and its attendant romances are infused in every single page of this simultaneously heartbreaking and joyful book about Anna and the secret she keeps from her best friend — Anna and her friend’s brother Matt were falling in love right before Matt died in a car accident.
3.5 starsIt took me a few chapters to get used to Sarah's writing, but I loved it by the end of the book. I wasn't sure it was the book for me, especially because I found Frankie to be so unlikable, but it gets better as you read on. I have never lost anyone I was close to, so I can't speak from personal experience, but I think I'd still recommend this book to someone who has. It shows how grief can change people in completely different ways and how/when/if it's okay to move on.
Was a cutesy contemporary read but nothing special. Good for a quick summer read to pass the time.
5 stars"All the stars and bundles of care packages."A lot of authors have perfected the art of heartbreaking. And guess who just got added to the list: Sarah Ockler.  When I started the book  When I was halfway through the book  When I finished the book I can't bring myself to write a review for this book. This was so heartbreaking and gloomy. The more I read the more I couldn't tear myself away from it.  What happens when death visits home?  Sarah Ockler has painted a vivid and bleak image of t
Sarah Ockler has painted a vivid and bleak image of the answer in her book.
Sarah Ockler's writing is similar to Kelley York's minus the dark aspects.
This story is more about letting go when needed.I am actually quite impressed with the blurb of the book.
So, people go with the idea that it is a summer love story.(view spoiler)[A particular scene with a comparison to a sea mermaid is my favorite part of the book.
(hide spoiler)]While reading, if you're done till chapter 5 or 6, please listen to "Comes and Goes" by Greg Laswell.Totally goes with the scenario.
