https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110611.Best_Friends_for_Frances
Summary: At the beginning of Best Friends for Frances, Frances and her younger sister Gloria have a rivalry.
Gloria wants nothing more than to spend time and be friends with her big sister, but Frances wants to be friends with Albert.
When Albert rejects Frances as his best friend because she is a girl, Frances decides that maybe Gloria wouldn't be such a bad best friend after all.
Additional Comments: Great book about sisters being friends.
Important message that you can have more than one friend.
If they enjoy this book, suggest other Frances books for the student to read.
"It would ruin my day to have to explain it."
Amazing and wonderful book. Frances, her sister and their friends have a wonderful few days exploring the true meaning of friendship. The story shows friendship being able to cross gender boundaries and the boundaries of siblings. A wonderful book to help show siblings how to get along and even become best friends. It’s also wonderful at exposing sexism issues and dealing with them beautifully. Gorgeous illustrations and fabulous story.
love these books
This is one of my favorite Frances books for two reasons:1) It reminds me of the friendship that my little sister and I had2) It is the kind of friendship I hope my daughters have. In fact, when I was reading it to the two of them a few days ago, I tried to subtly brainwash them by making encouraging statements like "Oh look! It's best friend sisters! Just like you!"and a third reason...like all Frances books, it has great little songs and descriptions of food. I always get so hungry reading these!!!
This is not the most sympathetic story, with people excluding other people and only including them to get back at their OTHER friends, but it is pretty realistic to little-kid politics. Well, if you ignore the badgers, anyway.First Frances won't play with her "baby" sister, then Albert won't play with girls, then Frances and her sister won't play with boys... oy! Luckily, everybody ends up realistically happy at the end.
I loved Frances as a child and 20 years later, I still love to read this collection
Ordinarily I enjoy reading my son Hoban's Frances stories; when dated I usually find them charmingly so. This time around less so; the longer I we can avoid the idea that boys don't play with girls, or girls aren't as good at boys things and so on the better. While the message that you can't just be friends when it's convenient is good, I found the sibling interaction a little weird.
This book was a little hard to keep up with. I did like, however, that there were songs that you can sing aloud to the class.
When Frances wants to be friends with Albert, he tells her no. Albert wants to play baseball with only the boys. Frances gets upset and decides to become bestfriends with her younger sister, Floria.
I always tell my girls, "Sisters are best friends."Read with Naomi
Illustrated by Lillian Hoban.
"Will you play ball with me?" said her little sister, Gloria.
And the next day, Albert and Harold reject Frances because she's a girl, and girls can't play baseball as well as boys.
Even if it means playing with her little sister, she'll show Albert what is what!
"Do you want to play ball?" "All right," said Gloria.
"If any boys come, they can't play," said Frances, "and I think I will be your friend now." "How can a sister be a friend?" said Gloria.
"Then you will be my best friend," said Gloria.
Personally, as a child, I preferred listening to the book because of the cute, clever, and catchy songs (although, the illustrations are perfectly delightful, too).Albert proves to be a bad best friend (a bbf, which is quite different than a bff) because he chooses to play baseball with the boys and leaves bf Frances (a girl) out in the cold.
Frances is not a happy badger.She decides to teach Albert a lesson by fixing a picnic that includes all of his favorite, mouth-watering treats and inviting her little sister, Gloria (previously thought to be a too-little-to-play-with pest) to go on a best-friends-no-boy-outing.Frances's ploy works.
Many many times I listened to this story performed with instrumentation, singing, and at least two performers- also Bread and Jam for Frances.
And poetry: (a Frances' song from Bedt Friends for Frances):"Boys who throw and catch and bat Are all the friends that Mr. FatAlbert will have from now onHe will not have me!"(Later in the story, after Albert has realized how much fun he could be having with girls)"Can I go on the eating?
I mean, outing?"Albert, Frances, and Gloria go on a picnic and enjoy a frog-jumping contest with frogs that Albert caught right there at the pond.
Russell Hoban's Frances books and Winnie the Pooh were staples of bedtime reading to my three little sisters and later to my own children.
After being left out by her friend Albert, Frances tells her little sister Gloria, "'And I think I will be your friend now.' 'How can a sister be a friend?' said Gloria.
'You'll see,' said Frances," who proceeded to prove what good friends sisters can be.
'Will it be just today, or longer?' 'Longer,' said Frances." Rereading this old favorite today reminded me that I can't say that my sisters were my best friends in those bedtime story days, but they are definitely my friends not just today but for longer, for always.
Maybe the characters don't always make the best decision, but the reader can relate to the battle between being the bigger person and reacting from a hurt place.
In spite of my child's disinterest in the book based on the cover art, he became fully attentive during the story.
He was so engaged that we were even able to evaluate the few moments when the a character had a decision to make about how to treat another (i.e., "What could she do here?" "How did that likely make her feel?").
Lastly, a girl character who can play baseball and persists in doing so in spite of silly boys excluding her is always a winner.
This book centers around a young badger named Frances who's still struggling with what it means to be both a friend and sister.
I got lost on what the take away message was because there was so much talking and singing going on in the book.
The author didn't have a clear tone or message that I could see, maybe "do unto others as you would have them do unto you" but this was not clear from the book.The illustrations were mediocre, they looked like paintings you do yourself in a baby's nursery.
All in all, I would not recommend this book.
I have some mixed feelings about this book.Frances is quite frankly a jerk in the way she treats Gloria.
Her song about little sisters is just mean-spirited and cruel.
I can't help but wonder if Gloria overheard any of that.
I like how she comes around to being a true friend toward her sister, and how even Albert discovers he's been cruel as well.
I've liked Frances books since I was very young and read my first one.
I don't like her mean little songs at all, but I do like her happy ones.
Again these are wonderful read aloud books for small children as well as great books for beginning readers.
Frances feels like she is being excluded by her good friend Albert when he has a boys only baseball game, and she thinks her little sister Gloria is too small to play with, so what does she do?
Well in the end Frances comes together with Gloria and realized yes, her "baby" sister can be a great friend, and really fun to play with.
This is the perfect story for siblings who maybe have a little bit of that rivalry, or kids who have trouble feeling left out.
Frances tells her sister that she is too little to play baseball with, that it would take too long to get her up to speed.
She goes over to Albert's house, but then Albert is hosting a boys-only baseball game and Frances is told she can't come.
So she plans a Best Friends Outing No Boys event with her little sister.
Then Albert comes over wanting to play.
A good story about friends, sisters, and not leaving people out, and Frances adds a few short rhyming songs and poems.
Other Frances stories by Hoban include Bedtime for Frances, A baby Sister for Frances, A Birthday for Frances
A very lovely book and pretty lengthy, too. It was from an era when kids didn't need constant stimulation to hold their attention. I'm glad that Frances became friends with Gloria, as I've been trying to let my son know it's good to be friends with his younger sister. I was a little wary singing Frances's songs aloud, though, as she's kind of rude, what with calling Albert "fat" and all. Speaking of which, did Bill Cosby jack Fat Albert from Best Friends for Frances? Russell Hoban missed a good lawsuit there!
At the beginning of Best Friends for Frances, Frances and her younger sister Gloria have a rivalry. Gloria wants nothing more than to spend time and be friends with her big sister, but Frances wants to be friends with Albert. When Albert rejects Frances as his best friend because she is a girl, Frances decides that maybe Gloria wouldn't be such a bad best friend after all. By the end of the story, Frances realizes that a sister can be a best friend, and that she can have other best friends, too!
Best Friends for Frances is a picture book that shows Frances and Gloria becoming best friends. At first, Frances thought Gloria was too small to play baseball but after Albert wouldn't play with her she played with Gloria. In the end, Gloria was allowed to play baseball with Frances, Albert, and Harold. The pictures in this book confirm meaning. An issue that could be raised within this book is the fact of girls playing baseball and participating in things that boys do. I would use this book for a guided reading in my classroom for an early reader.
We have both an ex-library book edition of the picture book as well as the 6x9 early reader I Can Read!
Level 2 of Best Friends for Frances and they are mostly the same outside of overall book size, font size and image size.
We would read both interchangeably I think.
This adventure for Frances has to deal with friendships, both with her sister and her neighbor and friend that is a boy Albert.
Learning to be fair, and show others how their words and actions make her feel this book teaches a good bit of it all.
Frances excludes her little sister Gloria at first, but when she is excluded by boys in her neighborhood she decides to make a best friends club with Gloria and in the end the boys join it too. Hoban does a great job of broaching the dramas of childhood friendship, including sibling friendship and friendships between boys and girls. The scenarios seem very accurate and relatable. One thing that might bother some readers is the fact that Frances engages in name-calling and calls her friend Albert fat several times.
Such a sweet series...my mom used to read these books to me when I was little. There was always a "moral of the story" of course but it was written with such a sweet and innocent style that I begged her to read them over and over again. When Albert and his buddies have a "no girls" baseball game, Frances and her sister organize a "Best Friends Outing -- No Boys". In the end is a great lesson about friendship.
Frances is friends with her sister and a boy. They have a picnic lunch together. There is a bit of "no girls allowed" so then the girls say "no boys allowed" but of course they give this all up in the end and everyone plays together. There is a "Fat Albert" reference. This book was written 1969. I checked the internet and it said Bill Cosby put Fat Albert into his comedy, and then there was a tv show in 1969. The real cartoon did not start until 1972.
This is a very wordy book. I would most likely break it down and read it in parts and hopefully build excitement about what is going to happen next. I would have the children predict the story and pick out key vocabulary words to teach. This overall message of the story is that you can have more than one friend. This would be a beginning of the year story for children who have trouble making friends.
I have four grown children and I read to all of them beginning when I got them home from the hospital. When you choose a children's book, expect to read it at least 100 times if it's really good. Kids don't get board of books they like. For this reason, it was essential that *I* liked the books enough to read them over and over. Any book by either Russell or Lillian Hoban is endlessly readable and funny.
"Fat boys that eat too much lunchCan't do a thing but munch and crunchAnd play with snakes and frogs."As always, a very funny Frances book that had me laughing out loud a few times. This time, Frances gets scorned by her friend, Albert, for being a girl. It wasn't my favorite of the series, but still enjoyable. "'Then I will go home and play a no-boys game with Gloria, Mr. Fat Albert. So ha, ha, ha.'"
