https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/872816.The_Eyes_of_the_Overworld

Set in Vance’s far, far future world of the The Dying Earth, in his inimitable style blending elements of science fiction and fantasy, this 1966 publication is at times hilarious but always entertaining.While reading I smiled frequently and laughed out loud at least a couple of times and Vance made me think about the irascible nature of loveable rogues.
Are we inside at least a little jealous or admiring of those who can set convention aside and accomplish outside of rules what we wish we could?Reading Vance’s story, I thought of the fascination with outlaws and criminals, of the charisma of gangsters and ne’er do wells.
In many ways it is an improvement over the experiments in style from the first book.For one thing, the book is better structured, with a framing story of the hero being sent on a quest and a sequence of related picaresque adventures as Cugel traverses exotic lands and meets monsters, maidens, ghosts, flying men, pygmies, giants, grotesque mutants and magic adepts.
In most respects, I felt like I was reading a high-fantasy version of Gulliver's Travels, always skirting the edge of high satire and always roving knee-deep in extremely lucky circumstance, tragic reversals, and yet more inexplicable adventure.The man is charmed and cursed in a very enjoyable fashion.Best of all, Vance never dumbs down his text.
I'm not used to ANY modern fantasy being allowed a free hand with words.Fortunately, this came out in 1966 by a firmly established master of the craft with little interest in catering to the lowest common denominator.
:) Go, Vance!
Whereas Vance's previous volume in the The Dying Earth series was composed of several short stories, each featuring a different character, The Eyes of the Overworld focuses on one character, Cugel the Clever.
And while the characters in The Dying Earth were capably presented in their individual stories, Cugel the Clever is featured in every story in this volume.And rightfully so!
Vance is able to extrude the subtleties (if they can be called that) of his main character with this form because Cugel is, if not clever, complex.
Vance continues in the wonderful writing voice from his first volume in the series.
In this treasure island of a book Jack Vance had hidden two treasure troves: his wild imagination and his flowery language.
Coming into the possession of an ancient lead coffin – after discarding the contents – he had formed a number of leaden lozenges.These, stamped with appropriate seals and runes, he offered for sale at the Azenomei Fair.”I wish I knew some tricks Cugel did know… The Dying Earth is a fantastic place populated with malicious magicians, frivolous pranksters and all possible and impossible sorts of eccentric and cunning jugglers.But if one has enough imagination one would manage to survive in any fantastic world…
You can read other reviews on this page if you missed that.The Eyes of the Overworld is the second part of Tales of the Dying Earth and the main character is one of my favorite Vance characters: the self-titled Cugel the Clever.
He is always trying to figure out how he can take advantage of other people in order to make his own circumstances better.In The Eyes of the Overworld, Cugel decides to burglarize the house of Iucounu the Laughing Magician so he can sell some of Iucounu’s thaumaturgical artifacts.
The Eyes of the Overworld is the second novel in Jack Vance's Tales of the Dying Earth.
(In many ways I was reminded of The Wizard of Oz.) That "novel" is really a collection of short stories -- all taking place in the same world, a world increasingly haunted by shadows as the sun burns itself out.
Cugel will lie, betray, rape, and kill, though usually the people he's doing these terrible things to are not much better.
5.0 stars. Jack Vance deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as Isaac Asimov, Arthur C. Clarke and Robery Heinlein. He is a master story teller and, unlike the aforementioned authors, Vance's books do not seem dated and can be read today with the same sense of wonder as when they were first written. The Dying Earth books are special, timeless classics that should be read and enjoyed by all fans of Science fiction. Superb world-building, amazing characters, like Cugel the Clever, and top notch writing make these books as good as it gets. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!
Vance's writing style is more refined in the second volume in the Dying Earth series (this story can be read without reading the first volume) which makes for a smoother and more interesting read. Vance packs in a number of interesting locations and ideas along with his usual assortment of chaotic-evil characters whose back-stabbing antics are a never-ending source of amusement. The Vancian magic system was an inspiration to Dungeons & Dragons and the fantasy genre in general.
The Eyes of the Overworld is a great book, but I'm going to take a contrarian stance and say that I actually preferred The Dying Earth.
Yes, this book contained all the same sly, tongue-in-cheek humor, the strong imagery of a decaying and run-down world, and the wonderfully-stilted high language used by all the humans and other creatures of this autumnal far-future world.
What I liked most about The Dying Earth was the amazingly rich imagery, strange characters, and self-contained storylines that the prevented it from being just a long string of episodes for the main character to extricate himself from.
I am officially in love with Jack Vance's writing and now I want to add Cugel the Clever among my list of favorite characters. Book 2 of the Dying Earth series follows Cugel as he lies, cheats and steals his way across the Dying Earth in order to find a rare artifact for conniving wizard. Vance's prose is so much fun to read and he has a real talent for writing. I can't believe it took me so long to find him.
This book taught me the meaning of the word "picaresque".adjective pi·ca·resque \ˌpi-kə-ˈresk, ˌpē-\: telling a story about the adventures of a usually playful and dishonest characterCugel the Clever (who sometimes seems like he should be called Cugel the "Clever") allows himself to be persuaded to visit the manse of Iocounu the Laughing Magician while Iocounu is otherwise occupied.
Needless to say, it doesn't end well, and Cugel finds himself on a rocky northern shore facing the prospect of a long, long journey south.It's a very episodic book.picaresque (ˌpɪkəˈrɛsk)adj1.
An absolute masterpiece of literature.
Every word is sublimely exquisite, and reading this book is a sheer pleasure for those who appreciate language.
Deft turns of phrase, arcane vocabulary, and humorous (yet adultly gruesome) situations abound in this classic.
A simply magnificent and wondrous book - definitely one that should not be missed.Do NOT delay - get this book and immerse yourself into the most sumptuous writings you'll encounter.
But don't read this book when your mind is cluttered - you'll miss so much if you attend to this book with anything less than your full attention.Definitely a strong contender for my FAVORITE book ever...
Combine this with radical jumps across space and time, and you have the recipe for something better read than listened to.
The audiobook's sound is poor, while the reader is below average.
This makes a plethora of creatures sound similar.
The reader's Cugel Voice is harder for him to manage than his critter voice, so it always sounds gruff.
Cugel isn't sympathetic by nature, so no delicacy can be found here, and events are forced into a tired wilting.
No emphasis is made for important events and characters, so they are overwhelmed by minutia, and cause backtracking.
Couldn't wait for this painful listening to end.
His one decent act in the entire book was in reality motivated by spite, if it was; maybe he simply saw profit in it.
It is not that Cugel relishes in his own evil (he doesn’t), nor that he simply does not care (he really does not), the thing is that in truth I do not think Cugel is even aware enough to be able understand the nature of his acts.
He doesn’t even think of his acts as particularly evil, he just sees them as basically “the only sensible option”.
Vance's preferred title, Cugel the Clever, best fits this wandering yarn about a selfish vagabond whose arrogance never falters, no matter how often he is outwitted. A classic anti-hero: You'll laugh when he abandons his damsels to distress; you'll cheer when he finally gets laid.
I will inform Magnatz that the spell is gone, that now he may come for his revenge!""No, no indeed not!""Then you must behave toward me as I expect."Weeping, the girl obeyed, and at last a wan red light filtering through the mist signaled dawn.Jack Vance's Cugel the Clever may just be the rogue-iest rogue whoever rogued in all of fantasy and science fiction.As you hopefully guessed from the passage I chose to head this review with, I mean this in the most unflattering manner possible.
The short stories that comprise The Eyes of the Overworld come across like a giant irreverent parody of your typical fantasy quest.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.The Eyes of the Overworld is the second part of Tales of the Dying Earth and the main character is one of my favorite Vance characters: the self-titled Cugel the Clever.
He is always trying to figure out how he can take advantage of other people in order to make his own circumstances better.In The Eyes of the Overworld, Cugel decides to burglarize the house of Iuounu the Laughing Magician so he can sell some of Iuounu’s thaumaturgical artifacts.
In fact, The Eyes of the Overworld was even better than The Dying Earth, probably because it follows the same main character rather than being divided up into separate short stories.
And so, continuing on with the "Dying Earth" series, this time following in the footsteps of Cugel (the "clever"), a conniving and amoral rogue as he attempts to fulfil a quest he is unwillingly enrolled on by a wizard.Cugel is an interesting character, an anti-hero and unusual protagonist for a fantasy novel.
Sometimes one feels that he gets dealt an impossibly harsh hand in life but at other times it seems that it is his own stupidity or greed that got him into a sticky situation.Pervading the narrative was Vance's distinctive style and humour but again, as I did with the previous volume, felt that his prose style matured and improved somewhat later on in his career.
If your experience with Fantasy is that it is tediously long, badly written, and always involves some morally-beige quest of good conquering evil, then I urge you to read Jack Vance, and in particular the Dying Earth series (collected in "Tales of the Dying Earth").
His immaculate prose and vast command of the English language creates wonderful conversations between characters and a fascinating glimpse into an old version of Earth, basking in the last rays of the sun.
With the recent death of Mr Vance, we have lost a truly outstanding and wonderful voice.
(Note: I believe Vance probably had in mind the original meaning of "clever" relating to the hand - a claw, seizing and taking).Cugel is a wicked, wicked man, and in desperate and dire straits.
but I have since found it unsettling, but rewarding to think carefully on Cugel's various episodes.
If Cugel were less wicked, he wouldn't survive, and on rereading, I've found grace notes of sympathy and even admiration while still feeling appalled.I have found themes of justice and revenge in almost all I've read of Vance.
To ensure Cugel's cooperation, Iucounu uses magic to wrap a creature named Firx to Cugel's liver to prod it with sharp barbs whenever Cugel appears to be loath to return to Azenomei and Iucounu.The Eyes of the Overworld is a record of Cugel's travels to return to Azenomei and use his cleverness to avoid being felled by magical spells and to use the people he encounters along the way.
Vance goes out of his way to imagine interesting peoples and situations:The spell known as the Inside Out and Over was of derivation so remote as to be forgotten.
I think I was aware of (and may have read) the second book of Cugel's adventures, but I did not know that another author had taken up the torch in given us more in between.Vance was made a Grandmaster of SF near the end of his life (possibly posthumously, I forget) and this is an excellent example of why.
Years ago, when the SciFi channel was just starting out and spelled that way, Harlan Ellison used to do short video bits for them.
I remember one small bit where he talked about Vance and his qualities as a writer.
Unlike "The Dying Earth", which was an interesting but somewhat awkward collection of interlinked stories set in a fantastical far-future earth, "The Eyes of the Overworld", which follows the adventures of 'Cugel the Clever' through magical landscapes and eras, was a much more coherent and enjoyable story. Either that, or maybe it just took me some time to get used to Vance's outlandish prose and baroque vocabulary, which I found myself enjoying much more in this book.
First and second time in Brilliance audio.Third time in Vance Integral Edition.
Cil, first published as part of the novel The Eyes of the Overworld, 22 pgs, novelette length3.
Each story follows the adventures of Cugel and flows into the next story with the storyline and main characters continuing so that it reads like a novel.In the story The Overworld we encounter Cugel at a fair where he has a booth and tries to sell so called magic items to unsuspecting customers.
The rest of the story focuses on his efforts and is quite interesting.In the story Cil, Cugel has one of the lenses (sometimes called cusps) in his pouch and begins the long journey on foot to return to Almery where Iucounu lives.
كتاب "أعين العالم العلوي" هو الجزء الثاني من سلسلة "الأرض المحتضرة" وهي سلسلة تمزج بين الخيال العلمي
Cugel is my favorite Jack Vance character.
I am presently occupied in translating both this and the second book into Esperanto...as a hobby, I might add...because I just enjoy them so much and wanted to share (with full permission, of course).Cugel is no one you'd care to know too very well.
His plans for larceny are often successful...right up to the point where comically they fall apart...or are undone by some past enemy.
By the same token, he himself is the undoing of any plans his enemies have for doing likewise to him...again in almost comical fashion.
I've read this in the omnibus Tales Of The Dying Earth.
I feel like kicking Cugel's ass, for everywhere he comes, he leaves a path of destruction, death, ...
has no respect for customs, profites from others' actions, and yet, one can't help feel to choose his side too when he's cornered.
On the other hand, in the end you sort of get the message: what goes around, comes around.
Or, don't seek personal revenge, because that is not going to end the circle or spiral.
All in all, another nice read, though less exciting (and more nerve-wrecking) than "The Dying Earth", hence only 7/10.
