https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12274.Saint_Joan
It is what men do at their best, with good intentions, and what normal men and women find that they must and will do in spite of their intentions, that really concern us.Shaw characterised Saint Joan as "A Chronicle Play in 6 Scenes and an Prologue or Preface".
ژان دارک در یک دادگاه کلیسایی، توسط اسقفِ بووه پیر کوشون، به جرم ضدیت با قوانین کلیسا، محکوم، و در میدان ویومارشه شهرِ روآن، سوزانده شد.
“Don't think you can frighten me by telling me that I am alone. France is alone. God is alone. And the loneliness of God is His strength.” Thus spoke Joan when her allies, those she had made great, abandoned her to death. Such loyalty they showed her in life. Without her they literally would have got nowhere. Joan was a solider, and in the end they treated her like a solider; they pointed her at France’s enemies and when her work was done they cast her aside. She was expendable to them, a mere
God is alone.
And the loneliness of God is His strength.”
Thus spoke Joan when her allies, those she had made great, abandoned her to death.
Joan was a solider, and in the end they treated her like a solider; they pointed her at France’s enemies and when her work was done they cast her aside.
Joan believed in her visions; she thought the voices she heard were divinely sent.
For Joan it was very much real, and for those that followed her it was real too.
The story of Joan is almost impossible to believe; it is so extraordinary: it defies logic.
Chronology of the Life and Times of Bernard Shaw'On Playing Joan', by Imogen StubbsIntroduction, by Joley WoodPreface--Saint JoanPrincipal Works of Bernard Shaw
After papal investigations she was later acquitted and canonized as a saint.Shaw wrote the character of Joan as a strong, intelligent woman who spoke very directly to the male soldiers and clergymen in the play.
People have wondered for years whether she was a divinely inspired saint, a lunatic, a genius, or an early feminist.
Although Shaw portrays some of the members of the Inquisition as corrupt, many were characterized as people who thought they were doing the right thing for their Church.
Overall, I found "Saint Joan" to be an interesting historical play with a complex main character.
Joan.
'Minding your own business is like minding your own body: it's the shortest way to make yourself sick.
What is my business?
I tell thee it is God's business we are here to do: not our own.
I have a message to thee from God; and thou must listen to it, though thy heart break with the terror of it'.This is my favorite play of all time.
because let's face it.I love everything Shaw writes.and Joan is AWESOME.
If you missed the last 600 years, let me tell you about the famous Jeanne d'Arc. Joan, as you're more likely to know her, began as a young farm girl, but when she heard the voices of her Lord and myriad saints beseeching her to take action against the horde of English soldiers encroaching upon her French homeland, she showed up on the doorstep of the uncrowned King Charles VII with a divine mission.
The epilogue features King Charles twenty-five years after Joan is burned, dreaming in his bed, visited by ghosts from his past.
In particular, he thought that nationalism was a good thing, and that wars between countries were sometimes good too.
I think most people would agree that this is much more of a right-wing position, so it sounds odd to hear him say it.
He supported the Soviet Union, and even the crazy doctrine of Lysenkoism.In Saint Joan, generally regarded as among his three or four best plays, we again get a strange mixture.
The character of Joan is sympathetically presented, and it's impossible not to like her and be moved by her story.
Images of Falconetti burned into my mind as I read, perhaps music of Messiaen.
Fete des belles eaux?
This is a very orthodox tale of moral and legal convulsion.
Add a dash of divine nationalism and voila.
Her oppressors, oppressively oafish--while Bluebeard muses of the Divine Rights and the souls of lumpen children (entertaining something ghastly--only Allah knows.
GB Shaw has impressed me this week, not only for the scale of his vision but the complexity of his characters.
There is always tenderness and treachery afoot, often in the same character on a single page.
İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları'nın yayınlamış olduğu Bernard Shaw'un dört oyunundan oluşan kitabın son oyunu "Jan Dark" idi.
Jan Dark Engizisyon Mahkemesi tarafından "cadı" ilan edilip yakılan birkaç yüz yıl sonra da kilise tarafından "azize" ilan edilen inançlarından vazgeçmeyen cesur bir kadın...
"Bir köylü kadını" olarak İngiltere ve Fransa arasındaki Yüz Yıl Savaşları'nda önemli bir rol oynamıştır.
Bernard Shaw da bu oyununda Jan Dark'ı ele almış.
Aslında yaşadığımız dönemin ne Jan Dark'ın cadı denilip yakılıp sonra da azize ilan edildiği yıllardan ne de Bernard Shaw'un bu oyunu yazdığı yıllardan bir farkı var.
Hele yaşadığımız günleri düşününce bu oyun daha fazla anlam kazanıyor.
The first scene of this play is one of the most perfect, most hilarious things I've ever read; it's probably my favourite single scene of any play, or at least my favourite comedic scene. The interplay between de Baudricourt and his squire -- "Positive! Now see here. I am going to throw you downstairs," -- never stops being funny.I was hesitant to actually read through the whole play, lest it somehow disappoint me and tarnish my love for Scene I, but I did, and it didn't.
যথারীতি চমৎকার শ - এখানেও।শ-এর অনেক সমসযা। এই লোক এমন সব দাবী করবে যা পরথাবিরোধী হতে গিয়ে পরসপরবিরোধী, অসংলগন এবং অনেক সময়ই যাচছেতাই হয়ে বসে থাকবে। কিনতু তার আর সমসযার বিপরীতে, তার ডায়লগ লেখার কষমতা, রীতিমত মাখন। এই নাটকেও লকষণীয় কোনো বযতযয় দেখা গেলো না। আধসেদধ কিছু কারণ দেখায়ে তিনি ভূমিকায় দাবী করলেন যে এই নাটক নাকী জোন অফ আরকের সতয ঘটনারে খুব ভালোমত পরতিফলিত করে, আবার আরো কিছু আধসেদধ কারণে তিনি নযাশনালিজমের সংজঞা দেয়াইলেন চোদদো শতকের পাদরীরে দিয়ে। কিনতু যেই ঘটনার অবতারণা করায়ে যে বেসামাল উপায়ে
যথারীতি চমৎকার শ - এখানেও।শ-এর অনেক সমস্যা। এই লোক এমন সব দাবী করবে যা প্রথাবিরোধী হতে গিয়ে পরস্পরবি
An interesting and entertaining take on Joan of Arc – historically very controversial (especially Shaw's insistence on Cauchon's political impartiality), but that needn't worry us.
But the most important thing about Joan of Arc, surely, was the very powerful charismatic effect she had on other people, and I don't think this is conveyed at all successfully.
Contrast this with the portrayal of the great charismatic characters in Shakespeare, and Shaw's limitations as a dramatist become very apparent.
Shaw's satire leaves nothing untouched, not even Shakespeare, and he makes fun of everything that he chooses to ponder upon.Saint Joan's character is in the league of those 'manly women' characters who rebel against the society.
Shaw succeeds in transferring us to the medieval period with its feudal system and its unquestionable authority of the Church.
Shaw's humor has a profound quality to it.
It's a humor that arises from the deep understanding of human psyche and the world that surrounds it.
It is this provocative humor that take surface during the play and forces us to think about Joan's condition and that of ours.
I first heard St. Joan performed on Chicago's WFMT as a radio play as a little boy.
The whole while a spider was building her web on the lamp at my right hand, a web finished and already catching moths by the time of the play's conclusion.I next read the play, quickly, as a homework assignment for the required high school course in English literature.
Of them, and I've read or seen quite a number, "Saint Joan" is the best--not the easiest, that might be "Androcles and the Lion, but the best.
جورج برنارد شو لديه قدرة فريدة على استخدام ذكائه بوصف فترة العصور الوسطى مع نظامها الإقطاعي وكيفية التي تم بها زرع بذور البروتستانتية واستخدام الدين
Joan of Arc is one of those figures from history who is hard to categorize.
A woman who still acts as an example to other women who also strive to live according to their beliefs and faith rather than what the world expects of them.Shaw portrayed a lot of his own beliefs and views in the play and I found him quite insightful.
Shaw portrayed Joan in this way and thus conveyed that she was a woman who totally believed her mission and carried it through to its fatal conclusion.
The thing about Shaw is that he has a vision for this play, and the vision is a huge and grand one, worthy of Joan herself, about how history and mysticism and culture and an individual’s daemonic genius act together and at odds, and of course the ending lament for the world’s collective lack of imagination, the sense that Joan could have been even more even though she was so much.
I wanted to hit him); the speedy humor of the first act doesn’t hold up well later on; there’s not much subtlety to be found, anywhere; the dialogue’s anachronisms are inevitably jarring; and (for instance) Shaw can’t seem to make up his mind about the miracles and the voices.
It is in this way that her character appears childlike in this play.In the end, Joan is burned alive for heresy.
Throughout the play, the author emphasizes that Joan is not of this world.
Nevertheless, is up to the people of this world to either accept Joan and what she is tasked to do, or to deny her.
In the end, Joan is essentially denied twice, the first at her burning and the second time being a twist of irony at the play's conclusion.
بصراحة احترت كيف اقيم المسرحية..فمن الناحية الأدبية هي حقا ثرية بالمفردات اللغوية الرنانة الجميلة .. وأشيد بالمترجم (الفنان) فعلاومن ناحية التسلسل القصصي فهو جذاي جدا وشيق فتشغلك المسرحية ولا تريد أن (تقفز) أية صفحةلكن عقيديا ودينيا رفضت المسرحية تماما .. ناهيك عن وجهة نظر أحد شخصيات المسرحية عن نبينا محمد عليه أفضل الصلاة والسلام .. لم أحب ما كتب والفتاة جان تم عرضها في القصة وكأنما هي رسول بعث مؤيدة بالمعجزات!!ثم تفاجأت انها شخصية حقيقية تم اعتبارها لاحقا في الكنائس المسيحية علی أنها قديسة ويجوز المباركة باسمها ..ولتعارض الجانب الأدبي مع الجانب (الضميري) احترت حقا في تقييم المسرحية!!
Joan of Arc was a strong woman, a feminist and acted on the voice of God that she heard. When she spoke, the clergy and the military listened. She led her country to victory before getting captured and dying after the trial. As is the case with Shaw, his dialogues are brilliant and offers socio-political commentary on the time period.
використати, стратити, виправдати, визнати святою. повторити, можна без двох останніх пунктів.утім, сама інквізиція в бернарда шоу доволі симпатична. він навіть згадує про те, що звинувачені в єресі чи відьомстві частіше залишалися живими, коли за них бралися кваліфіковані домініканці, а не добрі сусіди (true story).
Nobel Prize for Literature 1925 Review
"يابلهاء اتحسبين ان رجالا اغبياء بلداء يحبونك لأنك كشف الغطاء عن مناقصهم؟ ايحب ضباط حرب شيوخ خاوون خطاؤون ، ضباطا احداثا موفقين ، حلوا من الجيش حيث كانوا يحلون؟؟ ايحب رجال سياسيون قدماء أمالون ، رجالا سياسيين محدثين ، نافسوهم فى مقاعدهم الاول فى البرلمان فنفسوهم؟"ويبدع برنارد شو على لسان جان عندما يتخلى عنها الجميع بسبب الحقد "إنكم لاعون فيكم ولا نصيحه .
بينا فرنسا تجرى دماؤها على الارض سفحا ، وما ضره ان تجرى دماها .
فما وحدتى الى جانب وحده قومى ووحده الله بى ..لقد تعلمت آلان ان وحده الله هى سر قوته "وتقع جان اسيره لدى الانجليز ..
. ." (GBS writing in The Perfect Wagnerite.)In Saint Joan Shaw attempted, and perhaps achieved, a masterpiece based on this conception.
In the first scene the Robert de Baudricourt ridicules Joan, but his servant feels inspired by her words.
De Baudricourt interprets this as a sign from God of Joan's divine inspiration.
Both her voice and her visions are inspirational, but cannot protect her from ultimate betrayal.
The result of that betrayal leads to the end that we are all familiar with.Shaw's play features Joan as an outsider who seems lonely only when she is among those who voiced the common opinions of the day.
It is one of the rare, rare plays you never want to finish and though it' s a story, I am sure, everyone's familiar with, the way Shaw has re-written it makes the whole thing come out in a new light!
This play makes Joan a reader's darling, too, apart from her being the much-hyped Saint who was canonized in 1920 and whose story was narrated to anyone in a Christian Missionary School during every other prayer or assembly session!
It is a good antidote after my cradle of filth concert.
I would promote St Joan as a lesbian icon.
Anything to get some greens onto the kid's plates these days!
Reconciling Christianity in an honest way whilst embracing relativistic psychology is a great challenge.Shaw is very fair in showing that the harsh justice of the medieval Church was no harsher than today's society in seeking to protect itself from challenges to the status quo (he points out the summary execution of "traitors" during the war of his time) and he points out that at least they based their actions upon an honest belief in the salvation of the eternal soul and faith in the love of god and his Church.
Most Joan of Arc stories are rather one sided.
They clothe Joan in a white hat and the Inquisitors in black hats.
Shaw doesn't do that.
He looked at the story through a sympathetic lens.
When Joan came face to face with her judge and jury, I could feel the conflict within some of the jury members regarding Joan's status as Saint or Witch.
I feel like Shaw was using this story as a springboard for contemplating the ideals of Protestantism(the singular) vs Catholicism(the unified) and problems the come from obedience to a human system of law.
Honestly, how do we know that Joan wasn't hearing demons instead of angels?
I'm fascinated by Joan of Arc, so reading this play was a no-brainer for me. SAINT JOAN doesn't attempt to be biographical; rather, it spends a lot of time dealing with the ways in which church leaders and politicians were scandalized by Joan and her accomplishments. Shaw's writing is brilliant (as I've come to expect from him), and the play aptly demonstrates how people would much rather venerate a dead saint than listen to a live one.

One of the great things about these prologues is that English teachers are less able to twist the meaning of the play away from the author's original intention, and maybe Shaw did this because this was what was coming out of the universities in his time (or else the audience simply didn’t get it).
Joan in the play speaks about France being for the French, and in a way is flagging the beginning of nationalism.
What I really liked was the almost 50-page preface in which Shaw explained his play.
The play itself was of interest to me ONLY because of the preface.
HOWEVER, in the play itself, as a reader, I saw Shaw highlighting the politics at play and the cynicism.Regarding faked "miracles." The archbishop explains how events can be "pretended" to be "miracles."Frenchman: "I never thought of that."Archbishop: "You are not so accustomed to miracles as I am.
…. A miracle, my friend, is an event which creates faith....
the value of truth?
the value of untruth?
