https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25451555-saga-vol-5
One of the things that bothers me the most is when a child is put in danger in order to grab cheap dramatic tension in a story.
Even worse is when a child is hurt/killed/threatened order to build character or establish something about the world.90% of the time it's lazy storytelling of the highest degree, and 9% of the time it's little more than emotional abuse.
There are children in the story, in peril, and it feels real, but I never feel like the storytelling is cheap or making a bullshitty grab for my emotion.
volume five. the saga continues. and this time the quest is for dragon spunk. naturally. this volume features all kinds of boss team-ups and more of that devastating foreshadowing(view spoiler)[    (hide spoiler)]we will learn not to fuck with marko's mom. and kids will say the darndest things and, yes, there will be dragons but the real star of this volume, and my heart, is ghüs in his little butt-flap jammies and his little overalls oh, he's just so SWEET! sorry, buddy, but you are. i could ju
and this time the quest is for dragon spunk.
this volume features all kinds of boss team-ups
(hide spoiler)]we will learn not to fuck with marko's mom.
and kids will say the darndest things
and, yes, there will be dragons
but the real star of this volume, and my heart, is ghüs
in his little butt-flap jammies
and his little overalls
i could just PINCH you!bad things happen in this one that made me sad.
however, dead doesn't always mean dead, as i learned in volume 6, even if it's a qualified return of a character i was just starting to dig.
Not quite as good as the first four, but still a solid addition to the series.
I've run out of ways to praise Saga at this point so I'll just say that it continues to be one of the most entertaining, creative, funny, heartbreaking, profane, graphically violent, and well drawn comics I've read.
But despite all this awesomeness packing a punch, where the first two volumes went HULK SMASH on me, the ones that have followed feel more and more like a HULK THWACK if you get what I mean.
Ah well *shrugs* TIS STILL MY FAVOURITE COMIC SERIES OF ALL TIME AND YOU SHOULD TOTALLY GO READ IT IF YOU HAVEN'T YET.Now I'm gonna go pray for my sanity and hope the next one's ending isn't too brutal– so long little luxuries of not having to wait for sequels, thou shalt be dearly missed.Final rating: 4.5 stars
4.5 stars.... AND THE AWESOME KEEPS ON COMING.
THAT'S MORE LIKE IT
OBSESSED.
“Each new person we welcome into our hearts is a chance to evolve into something radically different than we used to be.But what happens when those people disappear from our lives?”This review contains *spoilers*.What has this series done to me?I knew it wasn’t clever reading them back to back, but I guess I never learn my lesson because THAT ENDING.
“It had been three months seen I’d seen my father” three months.This broke my heart a little bit.Alana’s love for Hazel is heartwarming.And I’m so glad Marko and Alana got reunited, but now I miss Hazel so much.
Oh man, I need the next volume NOW!
Enjoyed this one even more than the last one. Good stuff!
Vol. 1 ★★★★Vol. 2 ★★★★Vol. 3 ★★★★★Vol. 4 ★★★★  “Each new person we welcome into our hearts is a chance to evolve into something radically different than we used to be.”  This was my favorite volume, to date. And I say this in all of my Saga reviews, but Brian K. Vaughn is such a genius to make the voice of this comic the adorable daughter we know and love named Hazel. I feel more for this little hybrid cinnamon roll more than I do for most people I know in real life. Seriously, I want nothing bu
Dengo is still with Alana and Klara, and has full control over Hazel and Prince Robot IV's baby.
Marko is with Prince Robot IV, Gus (the cutest character in the world), and Yuma (Alana's old drug dealer).
Dengo tells a terrorist organization, The Last Revolution, where they are located and they come to take a look at Hazel to see if she is really the product of two people who are forbidden to breed.
Gus and Prince Robot IV finds them, sees that they are both probably going to die from the drugs, and have to make a call to find out how to save them.
Vaughan is a very good, perhaps great, comic writer.
Fiona Staples is a very good, perhaps great, comic artist.
Saga gets fawned over more than a pile of fruit on the ground near a wooded area (because fawns like to eat fruit that’s fallen to the ground…get it?).
I’ve read all 5 volumes, haven’t I?But, I don’t love it.
Not like a fawn loves fallen fruit.
Or even like hunters love depriving Bambi of his mother (too soon?).
I shall now return to my Kool-Aid Man-proof closet, lest the Saga lovers begin pummeling me with sugary red drinks.

They are actually bad people and they come and load everyone into their ship and they think they are going to take little Hazel somewhere and do some business.
Prince IV (tv head), Marko, Ghus and Yuma are going across the galaxy trying to find Alana, Hazel, Klara, the prince's child and the people that took them.
Or things, not people per se.
Actually, some things don't work out too well for a few people/things in the book.
And even though it ended okay for some, for Alana and Marko, Hazel was taken and the parting scene is her as a bigger girl.
anyway enough about my readathon, this book!
I think the one star that was deducted from this is entirely my fault, because I needed to reread the previous volume in order to understand what's happening in this one.
:( So I deducted a star just because since things were out of context, it took me the entire book to get back into the swing of things and remember what conflicts were occurring.
Altogether, it's just an amazing series with a complex web of subplots, characters, and themes.
I'm not a fan of sci-fi, but this series is an automatic buy for me.
YASSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS. Things are back on track. This was action-packed from beginning to end! No more angst and family drama. Alana and Marko were awesome. Gwendolyn is growing on me and is not just the angry ex. I like The Brand, but sad now. Ghus is awesome. The dragons. Hazel growing up is so cute.I see some people have said they didn't like this one as much, but it was my favorite since the first volume!Volume One: ★★★★★Volume Two: ★★★★★Voume Three: ★★★Volume Four: ★★★
"Regardless of sex, everyone loses something in a war...but the first casualty is always the truth."Saga is the only graphic novel series that I care about.
Vaughan, but nothing ever fascinated me as much as this series does.
Not once in the five volumes did I get bored.
The many unique characters and subplots bring out a variety of emotions: love, hate, fear, excitement and thrill.
I mean, look at those abs!)I'm so in love with the artwork.
I need this series on my bookshelves.
I need Volume 6 now.Find more of my books on Instagram
Re-Read 5/15/18:And just when I started to love ANOTHER CHARACTER...
I have to get heartbroken again.
Not all characters, of course, but some have a special place in my heart.
; ;What a fantastic series.
Heavy-hitting, pull no punches, freakstorm.
Original Review:Still seriously wicked cool.
The story is fantastic, but so is the art.
The pacing is divine and it is so damn funny and disturbing at the same time I just can't understand why EVERYONE hasn't just gone bonkers over this title.I mean, my only complaint is that it comes out too slow and I have to wait so long for each issue!I am a lifelong fan.
This fifth volume was not that bad, because it brought out an even more weird side to the series.
Hopefully volume 6 could answer that.This volume brought out Vaughan's weird side even more.
I liked how they were on a mission to collect dragon cum, and ended up almost collecting from a female dragon.
My favorite character in the series is The Will.
I like how the characters are portrayed, because it makes the graphic novel vivid.
1-4, and I'm recommending the series in general to those who are still reluctant to give this a try.
So many wonderful and wacky creatures and people, it just continues to expand and get better every time!What I think I most admire and love about this series is that there's an even balance between fantastic art and fabulous storyline, neither one out weighs the other in my opinion and each of them is just so brilliantly balanced by the other.
I think the pacing and the story just work so well because we're always getting new things, but it doesn't feel hurried or rushed, rather we're being pulled deeper into the universe and the battles and struggles of our characters and rooting for them all the way.This is phenomenal, beautiful and excellent, a fantastic 5*s of course and I HIGHLY recommend this series to any and all :)
This is one of the reason why I don't review my mangas or graphic novels.The series is really fast to read, I'm not joking, each volume will take you 30-40 minute max to finish so that's the reason for these spams.
It's a shame though that it took more than 3 volume for me to really like it but hey, I heard the series will be a long one so there is a LOT of room for improvement and a chance for me to grow to love this series.
Volume 5 was a very entertaining entry in the Saga saga (I have been wanting to use that one for awhile!) Lots of twists, turns, reunions, separations, cliffhangers, deaths, cool weapons, strange creatures, fascinating planets, and general debauchery.The first few volumes of this did not sell me, but now I am very into this series and I look forward to continuing!
Just not as impressed with this one. Hope the next is better!
I read the single issues of this, but plan to pick up the trade of this when it comes out anyways.LEMME JUST SAY WHAT THE HELL HOW I CAN I WAIT AGAIN? UGH THIS VOLUME WAS REALLY REALLY GOOD. If you can't wait i HIGHLY suggest picking the single issues up!
Love Saga. This one flew by!
Now that I'm finished with the fifth volume of Saga, I feel like it is time to share my thoughts.
So many of you have reviewed the first volume; I rather enjoyed volume five so here we go:First, understand that Saga is a space opera centered on the relationship and trials of Alana and Marko, primarily narrated via flashback through their young daughter, Hazel.
In particular, by Vol. 5 we learn more about what I'll refer to as the main subplot: young Sophie, The Brand/Sophie, and Gwendolyn are questing to find an antidote to The Will's coma.
Every volume just gets better and better. I'm obsessed. PS: Marko is still a stone cold fox.
Vaughan series: the "long enough" time to wait to start a series of his is "when it's already finished".)More than any other book in this series so far, I feel like Volume 5 really hit home for me why this series is called "Saga".
(view spoiler)[We sympathize with Dengo and his mission even though we know he's going about everything the wrong way, and when he finally realizes that, too, along comes Prince Robot IV to take his revenge and halt Dengo's redemption story right in its tracks.
WrensReads Review:"Every Relationship is an education.Each new person we welcome into our hearts is a chance to evolve into something radically different than we used to be.But what happens when those people disappear from our lives?"This series covers a lot of different feels.
The art in here is spectacular and graphic, and not for the faint at heart.
We see a lot of what we usually do: horrible deaths, people with no other options, and heartbreak.
So if you have liked them thus far, you will like this one just as much.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
