https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28877.Red_Dragon
Francis Dolarhyde (a/k/a The Red Dragon a/k/a The Tooth Fairy) may not have Hannibal’s culinary skills, but he’s one damn scary and slightly tragic villain while Will Graham makes for a damaged but compelling hero in the story.I think one of the things I love best is just how much time is spent on how Will thinks.
“What made him do it, how was he crazy?”“He did it because he liked it. Still does. Dr. Lecter is not crazy, in any common way we think of being crazy. He did some hideous things because he enjoyed them. But he can function perfectly when he wants to.”   Enjoyed it even more the second time!Let me break this down for you really quickly.Francis Dolarhyde goes a little cray-cray and thinks he is becoming the Red Dragon. Basically, he is going to take what is his with fire and blood. Err, somethin
“What made him do it, how was he crazy?”“He did it because he liked it.
Dr. Lecter is not crazy, in any common way we think of being crazy.
Enjoyed it even more the second time!Let me break this down for you really quickly.Francis Dolarhyde goes a little cray-cray and thinks he is becoming the Red Dragon.
Err, something like that.
Dr Lecter is just trolling everyone at this point.
Thomas Harris could have ended it on a lighter note.
Will Graham deserved better than this.
(view spoiler)[ Will is such a tragic character.
He deserves some happiness.
Not the happy ending I had hoped for Will and Molly.
(hide spoiler)]
Ex-FBI Profiler, Will Graham, is dragged out of early retirement, when a second family is slain by a serial killer, who has a penchant for doing his work, during the lunar cycle: when it's a full moon.
So, this is the novel that spawned the movie, Manhunter (1986), starring William Peterson (Will Graham), Brian Cox (Hannibal Lecter), Tom Noonam (Francis Dolarhyde) Joan Allen (Reba McClane.
I loved The Silence of the Lambs film - watched it a multitude of times - and Anthony Hopkins was quintessentially cast as psychiatrist/serial killer, Hannibal Lecter.
(I wanted to yell at him to make the obvious connection of the home movies between the various victims.) But he was an engaging enough protagonist.And even though I was prepared for his general absence, I still really missed lots of face time with this glorious bastard.And stuff like this goes without saying:This'll definitely stay on my keeper shelf because the last half galloped along once Harris turned the plot's focus on to Francis Dolarhyde as a person instead of the killer in the background (and I had uninterrupted time to read and really get into the story - funny how that works).
Great book!The Zodiac Killer.
Who knows?Just finished watching a documentary decoding the Zodiac Killer.
Bit of a loaner, very intelligent.
Left clues.Red Dragon.
A very tall man, worked in photography, bit of a loaner, very studious, very intelligent.
Left clues.Hmmmmmm!
1757–1827  TIGER, tiger, burning bright In the forests of the night, What immortal hand or eye Could frame thy fearful symmetry?
What the hand dare seize the fire?
And when thy heart began to beat, What dread hand and what dread feet?
Tiger, tiger, burning bright In the forests of the night, What immortal hand or eye Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?
Hannibal Lecter rises! This is the first novel about Dr. Hannibal Lecter, introducing the character. MINDS ALIKE You never know what path a novel will take, specially when this becomes the beginning of a book series.When you're reading you could think that Will Graham would be the "hero" of this book series, but the tremendous success of Dr. Hannibal Lecter, even before the filming of The Silence of the Lambs (based on the sequel book), it was clear that the "good guy" won't the "hero" of this
Will Graham got three dangeours serial killers, including the infamous Dr. Hannibal Lecter......but at a great cost......so he decided to leave all that behind and having a quiet life with his family.But evil never takes vacations......the Tooth Fairy, a new and twisted serial killer rises and entire families are paying the price.Special Agent Jack Crawford, in charge of the Behavioral Science Unit of the FBI, knows that the Tooth Fairy not only is something out of the regular serial killers, but also it's on a bloody spree, so there's little time to avoid more massacres......so he needs to call again Will Graham.Nobody can gets into the minds of serial killers like Graham.However, since the Tooth Fairy is a menace racing against time......Will Graham needs to get into contact of Dr. Hannibal Lecter to ask for his help in the case......the game is on again......and Dr. Hannibal Lecter enjoys to play!
Jack Crawford, Will’s former boss, shows up at his house asking for help on a new case of a new serial killer dubbed the Tooth Fairy, because the creep likes to bite his victims.Here’s how the conversation goes between the two, broken down to its simplest form.Jack: Hey I need your help with a case because you’re the best at what you do.Will: But I don’t want to on account I was nearly gutted last time I helped you.Jack: But you’re really good at your job.
While I love dark books, I seem to need them to be a bit fanciful…….not of the real world.
Some help comes from the killer Graham caught before, one named Hannibal Lecter (this is not the novel where he shows up a lot, but I can see how he became popular already from here).I have seen the older movie of this book, though I don't remember much (apart from what happens with certain Lounds person and his (view spoiler)[horrific death, which is pretty much as it was in the movie (hide spoiler)]).
The killer appears properly the first time in chapter 9, but some things point already at his killer-name: the red fingerprint powder - "Dragon's Blood" and the (view spoiler)[carved sign the killer got from his grandmother's Mah Johngg piece - Red Dragon (hide spoiler)].
Red Dragon (Hannibal Lecter #1), Thomas Harrisعنوانها: اژدهای سرخ، پیش از داستان سکوت بره ها؛ نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم دسامبر سال 1997 میلادیعنوان: اژدهای سرخ، نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: فرهاد بدری زاده؛ تهران، نشر چکاوک؛ 1374؛ در 621 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1377؛ شابک: 9646043054؛ چاپ سوم 1388؛ شابک: 978964604353؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، زرین کلک؛ 1379؛ در 621 ص؛ شابک: ایکس - 964917043؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 معنوان: اژدهای سرخ، نویسنده: توماس هریس؛ مترجم: سهیل صفاری؛ تهران، نشر دایره، 1388؛ در 549 ص؛ شابک: 9789646839977؛ عنوان دیگر: پیش از داستان سکوت بره ها؛ داستان اژدهای سرخ داستان قاتل روانی به نام: فرانسیس دلارهاید؛ با گرایش‌های سرکوب شده ی همجنسگرایانه است؛ که در یک مؤسسه ظهور فیلم در سنت لوییس آمریکا مشغول به کار است؛ و به واسطه ی شغلش به فیلمهای خانگی که از نقاط مختلف آمریکا برای آنجا ارسال می‌شود دسترسی داشته و از آن طریق قربانیان خود را انتخاب می‌کند.
Each film provides a different take on Harris' most famous character, Hannibal Lecter, both films provide a chilling effect on the viewer's emotions, and both films offer up a frightening -- though very different -- Francis Dolarhyde.Harris' writing is cinematic in structure and quality, making his books easy to transfer to the screen.
There is an underlying suspense and oppression in his books that gives a screen writer or director a sound compass for adaptation, allowing him/her to do justice to a Harris book by maintaining the spirit of the story -- no matter what changes are required by the shift to cinema.Still, as a novel Red Dragon is merely enjoyable.
The movie stays pretty close to book although I did picture the tv version of Will Graham and of course Anthony Hopkins as Lecter.
Red Dragon is the novel that introduced us to the iconic character Hannibal Lecter.
The only problem I had with this book is there wasn't enough Lecter.
I've read other reviews that disliked The Tooth Fairy(I'm calling him that because he would hate it) grandmother subplot but I like it when the villains background is fleshed out.
I would recommend Red Dragon to fans of the movie The Silence of the Lambs and readers who love a twisted villain.
Amazing, as always!
Things start off very slowly, and the book's thriller/suspense engine seems to be running flat.
But after a little while, if you manage to hold on and wage through the tedious openings and uninteresting back-story, 'Red Dragon' does eventually come together, and although it isn't the best thriller I have read (I think Peter Straub's "Koko" would come under that title)it does certainly pull you into it, enough so that the lackadaisical prose and occasional overflow of pointless descriptions, does become less noticeable, and you find yourself eager to see how everything turns out.
Mine is a late entry into the world of Hannibal Lecter, and I regret it, but better late than never. Brilliant narration from Thomas Harris, kept me on the edge. I was fervently perusing the pages, hoping against hope that the Tooth Fairy, pardon me, Dragon, would not hunt down Graham. The pacing was perfect and never for a moment did Harris digress from the plot and neither it lead to the dreary repetition of psychological/crime thrillers.Eagerly looking forward to read the rest of the novels in the series. Must Read.
When I saw this, I was hoping for a similar psychological warfare play like in Silence of the Lambs but, alas, Will and Hannibal only meet face-to-face one mere time.The main character in this book is the serial killer known as The Red Dragon.
Will is the second focus, digging into the head of the man who caught Hannibal Lecter and who has agreed to come out of retirement one more time.
I read Red Dragon over a decade ago, and, while I have no need to reread it (I remember every little cringe-inducing detail), it has popped up on my 17 Books for People Who Hate People Reading Challenge.
The killer and his "becoming" has stayed with me for ten-plus years, and I firmly believe it's the best book in the Hannibal Lecter series.
It left me wanting so much that I refused to read the final book, Hannibal Rising.In summation: One of the best thrillers I've read, and better than future books in the series.
Once upon a time, there was a little girl who saw The Silence of the Lambs.
I don't know what her parents were thinking letting her watch such a movie, but she never forgot the opening scene, with Clarice running.
She did not have the stomach to watch the more gruesome scenes, and I don't blame her.
But the little girl grew into a deranged teenager who fell in love with Hannibal Lecter.
I fell a little for Francis Dolarhyde, too.
I mean there's Francis, a tormented soul with a hot body who falls in love for the first time in his life.
I am somehow one of the only people in the known universe who had never read anything by Thomas Harris — I’ve remedied that, and am now moving on to this book’s follow-up, Silence of the Lambs.
Hard case mystery and bloody tale of the macabre in equal measure, Harris explores the sociopathic psychology without fear or hesitation: Frances Dolarhyde and Dr. Hannibal Lecter come alive in a way that is all too rare in modern fiction.
One of the scariest books I’ve ever read, Red Dragon left me feeling throttled in a way dark fiction hasn’t made me feel in some time.
Most people were introduced to Dr. Hannibal Lecter by the "Silence of the Lambs" movie, but Lecter's legacy really began with this novel, and it's still my favorite of the series.
People who only saw the Red Dragon movie and didn't read this yet should be warned in advance that Hannibal Lecter has little more than a cameo appearance in this novel...the focus is definitely reserved for the bizarre "Red Dragon" killer and the man trying to catch him.
Still, you won't be disappointed, as this book is an amazing read.
The Hannibal Lecter movies featuring Anthony Hopkins were amazing, but for me, this book still trumps then all.
Really good, I should have gotten to this book sooner.
The book (actually published before Silence of the Lambs, which I didn’t realize until I compared the publication dates) follows the work of FBI investigator Will Graham as he and his team try to catch the killer known first as the Tooth Fairy, who later gets the nickname the Red Dragon.
I’ll admit that reading this was kind of a weird experience for me – like I said, I didn’t realize that this book came out before Silence of the Lambs, and was actually the introduction of Hannibal Lector.
I think Harris has kind of a ghoulish sense of humor which probably comes out the most in Hannibal Lector.
Karla said Hannibal was like Red Dragon fanfiction, and I think she’s right.
I think the show captures the tone and the feel of Red Dragon, but it’s left out some of the humor, which probably makes it too serious.
I thought if you cut off the leg to a pair of pantyhose, the only way you could wear them was by using a garter belt.
50 pages before the end, they got the guy and I knew there was no way I'd be able to go to sleep tonight not knowing.
I'm not sure why it's not a 5, maybe it's because as a crime novel goes...I've read all of this before.
Most murderers have a reason for why they kill and in Francis Dolarhyde's case it makes sense why he is the way he is.
He didn't know what was going to happen in the middle of the book without letting them drive the story.

El mejor libro policíaco que he leído.La participación de Lecter es muy buena, el hada de los dientes no es nada fácil de atrapar es muy inteligente y astuto.Me encantó de principio a fin, uno de mis libros favoritos de siempre.
Insane.And that's exactly why I loved it.Off to the next one.
3.5 stars.I'm so glad I finally got around to reading some Thomas Harris, because I thoroughly enjoyed Red Dragon, the first in the famous Hannibal Lecter series.
The background into his childhood was really interesting and definitely helped to flesh out his character a lot more.I did find that the ending was a little too rushed for my liking, and wasn't quite as exciting as I was hoping it would be, but Harris was brilliant at maintaining a real feeling of tension throughout the novel which I really appreciated.
How many books with twist endings can I read and still be so shocked?
This isn't a book about an alternate universe where things are screwed up, this story could actually happen.
And that's really what this book is: a very long episode of Criminal Minds without the ever brilliant Spencer Reid.Any fan of true crime, mystery, or horror will enjoy this book.
Thankfully, detectives like Graham and Crawford also exist.Will Graham is an interesting character, because he can think exactly like Lector and this new serial killer.
As a psychiatrist himself, he can read just as much into these detectives as they can into him.
Basically everyone knows this book and what it is about, so no reason for a big detailed review for it.That, and the fact that I didn't care for it enough. It was alright, it was engaging while I was reading, but really didn't leave much of an impression. The movie had a much bigger impact on me.
Thomas Harris is an absolute master.
