https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31415529-come-sundown
But, the long and short of it is this - the book would have been amazing if it had been written as a straight up thriller.
Then there is the story of Aunt Alice, which deals with the familial bonds and resentments that have festered so long, finally coming to a head, and the resulting fallout.
Romantic suspense can be a tricky blend, but this approach, while original, seemed to keep the two threads separated, so that they didn’t feel like they belonged in the same book together, until the final few chapters, that is, where everything does wrap up nicely, I must admit.
The thing that set this book apart from others of romantic suspense was the life she breathed into these deep, realistic characters.
Roberts clearly knows how to produce a novel that is full of everything you want in domestic suspense, but her characters are what stole the show in my humble opinion.
There were a few spots that felt a little fluffed up and I felt maybe 50 pages or so could have been shaved off, but otherwise this was a near perfect read.
Highly recommended for fans of romantic suspense that don't want to sacrifice on characterization!*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my copy via Goodreads Giveaway!
On one hand I could be really immersed in the story line of Alice and on the other hand I would get really bored by the day to day minutia of running the Bodine Resort.
Still sorting out my thoughts...Even though it was dark, I really liked the story line of Alice and that's the part of the story that I was really pulled into.The trilogy aspect of NR gets old but I did like each of the characters within the 3 couples.
I think I would have preferred more about the characters and less on the day to day running of the resort.
The main character is Bodine Longbow, the youngest who runs the family's high-end resort.
In the present day, the bodies of two young women are discovered right around the time Cal returns so suspicion is cast his way.
Therein lies the main conflict of the story.This was more of a mystery than suspense as I was challenged to figure out how the past influences the present, which I found more compelling.
Well done!I liked this story and decided some time ago that I'd only listen to Nora's single titles, which are all romantic suspense.
*Reviewed at Cross My Heart Writings and Reviews**Many thanks to St. Martin's Press for an arc of this book.Come Sundown is a powerful, compelling story showcasing the healing power of love and the amazing ability of the human soul and spirit to survive and recover from unimaginable, mind altering pain and sadistic evil.
nurture often used by this author is prevalent as true identities are revealed near the end.After the opening flashback introducing Alice and cueing readers into her fate, the story moves to the present where we meet Bodine Longbow who runs the upscale Bodine Resort and her brothers who operate the Bodine Ranch - both offering guests an exclusive western cowboy experience.
Full review now posted!This review and more can be found on Booknest.For years, Nora Roberts has been my feel-good author.
If a book says it’s written by Nora Roberts or her pen name, J.D. Robb, then she wrote it herself.
I don’t pick up her books to be surprised; I pick them up for their familiarity and the comfort that brings.Okay, end my gush-session over Nora.
On to this actual book!Come Sundown is, like all of Nora’s books, a story with family at its core.
But as stated previously, the core of this book isn’t romance; it’s family.
Su comienzo y la historia que se cuenta del pasado es muy potente, además de dura.
Yo lo he pasado mal {la primera noche hasta soñé con el tema}, pero es tan dura que inmediatamente entras en la historia y la vives.
La parte actual es más "light", supongo que para compensar la del pasado, pero igualmente terminas encariñandote con algunos personajes.
La "parejita" principal: agradable, moderna, pero sin más; de las que se olvidan.¿Qué hace que te enganche tanto el libro?
He temido una y mil veces que pasasen determinadas cosas, menos mal que "la Roberts"se ha portado bien la mayoría de las veces.
It's not identical to Montana Sky or any other book, but it's far too similar for its own good.So yeah, I didn’t read the whole thing; I just read the parts that included Alice, because she was the most interesting character out of the lot, the only one with an arc.
And honestly, I don’t feel I missed anything.To be fair, though, the writing style was pretty good, even if the story crafted in that style was crap.
Roberts is exceptionally talented—if only she would write a story that isn’t a waste of her time and ours.
I won an Advance Readers Copy of this book from the publisher, St. Martin's Press. Thank you!Another wonderful Nora Roberts read! A suspenseful and intriguing saga involving twisted passions and based upon family ties.Set in Montana on a ranch/resort owned by the Longbow/Bodine family this is the story of a family coming together to settle issues of the past and to protect their own when a madman is on the loose abducting women to become his wives.In typical Nora Roberts fashion this romantic suspense will captivate you throughout.
So intriguing! It was a bit slow at first but once you warm up to the characters and the plot, you get pulled right into it. My grandmother gave me a ton of Danielle Steel and Nora Roberts books so I figured I would get to reading them this weekend. This was the first of the box I got so here's hoping I continue to like them as much as this one! Overall, slow burn with some fiery characters, mystery, and action!
Her books sell like hotcakes because she knows how to give people what they want, and she somehow manages to crank out more than one a year.
I guess it’s no wonder she’s so good, with that much practice under her belt.Come Sundown is the perfect escapist read, set on a Montana ranch and resort owned by the kind of family you wish you were a part of.
The descriptions of Alice’s captivity and her treatment at the hands of her tormentor are hard to read (trigger warning for sure), but I could deal with it because I knew Roberts wouldn’t leave a girl hanging.
This author excels at researching new themes to such a depth that I finish the book with a sense of accomplishment and enrichment.Some of these books have been all time favorite novels and have earned a spot on my keeper shelf, others have been wonderfully entertaining - but every single one of them stood out because of the authors impeccable writing and unsurpassed storytelling.Come Sundown by Nora Roberts was no exception.This time the author took her novel to a Montana Dude Ranch/Resort.
And his way of standing behind a strong woman and supporting her in every way was unbelievably HOT!!!!Add a truly amazing and spellbinding storyline and Come Sundown easily kept me glued to the pages and I had a hard time putting it down.But that's something that can be expected from a Nora Roberts novel.
Not going to spoil it for you though, you just need to come across it.There is darkness in this novel, Bodine's Aunt Alice went missing, she was a little of the black sheep of the family and had left home to do her thing.
But so far one thing I can say is, Nora Roberts never lets the bad guy win - so hang in there.These dark spots are juxtaposed against family, life on the ranch and resort.
Family bonds are so strong and when Callen rides in on his amazing horse life gets even better.
It all starts in 1991 with twenty one year old Alice Bodine making her way back home to the family ranch in Montana after having run away to California at eighteen.
Due to some unfortunate turn of events Alice doesn't make it back and her family has no idea that she was returning home.
Smart, strong and self-reliant, Bo runs the resort along with her younger brother Rory, while her parents and elder brother Chase manage the ranch.
With another turn of events and some luck Alice manages to escape her captor and returns back to her family after nearly three decades.
I know I’m in the minority here but this book did not hold my interest. By 48% I should like it. I don’t care for either storyline and the one storyline is so disturbing, I just have to quit and move onto something else.
Advanced Reader Copy (ARC) provided by the Author, Nora Roberts and Publisher, St. Martin's Press, in exchange for an fair and honest review.I have always loved the romantic-suspense books by Nora Roberts and I don't expect anything but the best from "Come Sundown".
NR is a superb writer and she shows her chops with the slow building and merging of her story lines, her character development and how she can make you feel like you are right there in the place with her.The story begins with the abduction of Alice Bodine in 1991 as she makes her way home after running away from the Bodine Ranch in Montana three years before.
Come SundownNora RobertsThank you so much to St. Martins Press for my ARC........It's been a long time since I read a Nora Roberts book.
Alice Bodine ran away to Hollywood a few years ago and after a few postcards, her family never heard from her again.
But not a day goes by when her mom doesn't think about her.COME SUNDOWN is written outlining two different times in the Bodine family.
Alice Bodine ran away from Montana in 1989 and three years later, she is making her way home.
Without giving the whole story away, Alice comes back after 26 years and her family rallies around her to help her heal.
How wrong could Alice have been?Back in present-day Montana, Bodine Longbow (Alice’s niece), is the manager of her family’s, four-generation run holiday ranch.
Events take an even darker twist when Alice suddenly makes an appearance in a distressed state, 25 years after she disappeared.Firstly time for a confession.
There are some brutal scenes, and horrifying events, especially regarding Alice, who has been kept as a slave/baby-maker for the last 25 years, repeatedly battered, and raped by her captor.We as readers are taken back and forth between Alice’s horrific world and present-day Montana.
I have read Nora Roberts books before and enjoyed them. I never find them too demanding but with the best concoction of spices to get your mouth watering to read more.This one was with no exception.We have back and forward events which are not difficult to keep abreast of.Nora Roberts once again shows us the ability of human nature.Love, patience and healing despite the hurt, pain and sadistic happenings.This is told over four generations so quite an expanse of time.It's a wonderfully captivating read.Thank you to Little brown book group via Net Galley
A bit muddled with a lot of characters to keep track of, but little desire to do so, if I'm honest. I was far more interested in the side story about the aunt, Alice, who had been taken over twenty years earlier, beaten, raped, and held against her will. I kept wanting to skip Bodine's story and get back to Alice.All in all, for me, this wasn't one of Roberts' better stories. I don't see this getting a re-read at any point.
I found the present day storyline a little plodding and the story that initially kept me reading were the small bits of flashbacks to Alice and what happens to her in the past.
I think that was what threw me off in the beginning: you're introduced to a lot of characters in a short amount of time and it took me a bit to warm up to them.
Honestly, the parts with Alice (past and present) I found to be much more interesting than any of the "romances" taking place in the book.
Mi estreno con Nora Roberts no ha estado mal, me ha gustado la historia y su narración, así como el género, que últimamente me atrae mucho el suspense romántico, continuaré leyendo más libros suyos, lo difícil será decidirme por uno u otro...
Reading pause. I am having a hard time connecting to keep going and some parts were depressing. I will have to try again when my mind is better for this type of read.
I really like Ms. Roberts' style!This book is hard to review because while the pace is slow and there're a lot of details about every day life, about managing the resort (and marginally the ranch), there's a lot of internal thoughts from all the characters, not only the main.
At the same time, the crime part is very difficult: the unraveling of a woman in the hands of a truly mad monsert!
So not fair!!!There're several love stories going on very, very slowly, but sweetly all the same.There's just a tiny, teeny bit that I was doubious about: the family/friendship dinamics very unbelievably perfect!
The Bodine Ranch Resort in Montana was large working rural restore run by the Bodine Family and managed by Bodine Longbow Granddaughter of the original owners.
I do not know how Nora Roberts comes up with her plots and provides her readers with so many fantastic stories without using co-writer.
I also like Nora Roberts writing style and the way she describes her plots and adding a twist that the readers of Come Sundown never knew was coming.
Readers of Come Sundown will learn about running a large rural resort in Montana.
Readers of Come Sundown will learn about running a large rural resort and the problems that curtail.
I also think this book was overly long (we get way too many descriptions about how to run a ranch, about horses, etc.) and I thought that the ending wasn't very well thought out in my opinion.
It's typical Roberts though, she does love her 6 couples in most of her romance books, so I don't know why I was surprised at Bodine/Cal, Chase/Jessica, and Rory/Chelsea.
So you get present events mixed up with past events and I still have to wonder how old some of the characters were in this book since we find out that Alice was abducted 25 years ago.
Good story about two main women--one, Alice, is abducted by an evil man who frequently beats and rapes her. The second woman, Bodine, runs a ranch and resort in western Montana. I really liked this one.
As usual, Nora Roberts does not disappoint! I’ve always been a fan of her books but her most recent ones, this one included, really are on a whole other level than her earlier works. I love how she combines family histories with romance and crime and mysteries, it makes for such interesting and intriguing reads. I really loved the darker side of this one, it was both heartbreaking and beautiful and completely sucked me in!
I gave this audiobook a B+ for the story and A- for the narration at AudioGals.Narrated by Elisabeth RodgersLovers of romantic suspense and western-styled romances are the perfect audience for  Come Sundown . Nora Roberts has been such a prolific writer for such a long time, and as Come Sundown proves, her ability to captivate an audience is still as strong as ever. Further enhancing the entertainment value of this audiobook is the talented narration by Elisabeth Rodgers which really helped brin
Further enhancing the entertainment value of this audiobook is the talented narration by Elisabeth Rodgers which really helped bring the story to life.Spanning numerous decades, Come Sundown is truly a family saga that tells the story of several people spanning three generations in the lives of a family that owns a ranch in western Montana.
As Alice had been a lively and strong-willed teenager, the family assumes she ran away and chose never to return.
Only problem is that Callen is now an employee of Bodine ranch.
3 stars - Contemporary Western/Romantic Suspense
