https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62953.Ghost_World
Two hours of my life that I will never get back! This is the graphic novel edition of “Ghost World” by Fantagraphics Books, originally published as chapters, in the comic book series “Eightball” #11-18.Creative Team:Writer & Illustrator: Daniel Clowes MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING People who read my reviews know that I’m not usually negative (for not saying of giving 1-star ratings) when I am commenting about my readings, and being that negative, doesn’t cause me any joy, sadly when I do feel that
It’s a shame (at least in my very personal opinion) that Ghost World didn’t exploit its own storytelling potential, since the characters and ambiance were ideal to build a plot in the style of other products like the live-action film Amélie or the animated TV series Daria.
Heh.She was spot on (read: lucky) with (randomly) choosing Daytripper, so I gave her powers of awesome comic book prophesy another go.Summary: Two small-town adolescent best friends share snark about dudes, their future and the very meaning of life itself.Who knew looking into the abyss could be so much fun.Not much happens.
The dialogue crackles with some wit and is essentially the driving force behind reading this.Girls just want to have cranky fun and that’s okay with me.Bottom line: Mrs. Jeff is 2-for-2 and is batting a 1.000, so unless she picks up a volume of Aquaman next, her streak will continue.
One dimension of this book that seems clearer to me in this reading is that one of the things they are struggling with in this summer after high school graduation is sexuality, including some Q (of the GLTQ) moments.
Enid may be going to college; Rebecca just wants things to stay the same between them forever.
The text features two recent girls, Enid Coleslaw and Rebecca Doppelmeyer, recent graduates of high school, both disaffected and cynical.
i hate empty american cities, big and small, and kids lost in it.
i hate the heavily underscored lack of family life, this eternal american parentlessness -- the trope of the absent parent, independent as it is from the fact of the parent's physical existence.but then i started feeling tenderness for the two girls, because of their tender love for each other, their tip-toeing around the conventions that allow its various modes of expression, the light narrative touches that convey how straying from the rigid boundaries of these conventions becomes just too much (a closing panel that simply says, "let go of my hand").
Okay, now imagine being locked in a box for an hour forced to listen to those jealous twits and you've got Ghost World in a nutshell.I have been wanting to read Ghost World for ages.
I think if I had originally read this a decade ago, I might not have disliked the characters so much.
I almost stopped reading a few pages in because of the incessant complaining.
However, I'm glad that I continued reading because the characters become less annoying towards the end.
You'll only want to chuck the book across the room.
All we see is the petulance, the ripple on the surface of a psyche.A young thin blond girl and a much edgier dark-haired friend who sports an aggressive haircut and heavy-framed glasses are nearing the end of high school.
I thought Clowes was brave to take on the challenge of depicting the mind of a teenaged girl, but he caught that moment in the lifecycle of a female of the species perfectly.This is another example, if we needed one, that the writing—including what isn’t said—is as important as the drawing in great graphic novels.
I admire the heck out of artists working in this medium and encourage anyone who hasn’t picked up a graphic novel lately to try one.
I read this so-called classic years ago, and it felt like a culture clash. To me it was obvious this wasn't written by a woman. That's not the way girls talk and think, at least not in my experience.
The worst thing that happened to “Ghost World” was that a movie was made of it, because it pawned the book effortlessly.
Dan Clowes’ book was so cynical and condescending towards its subject matter that the film couldn’t help making the girls more likeable.Case in point: when Enid and Rebecca are watching a lousy comic on television the Movie Enid says, “this guy rules, I want to totally do him”, it’s said with a dose of sarcasm and demented humor.
The Book Enid says it with a jaded tone and a vacant facial expression.
I've read some of Daniel Clowes comics before (I absolutely ADORE his Eightball Comics which my roommate from college and I used to binge-read after getting high from this seriously amazeballs steamroller we made from a recycled poster tube that we affectionately dubbed "The Stinger" and we spent three years graffiti-ing it with pen and ink drawings of wasps and other such stinging atrocities....but that's another story for later) and I really liked them, but this one always felt a little intimidating to me.
Like the fact that his cover page features a drawing of Enid and Rebecca as younger girls staring at a gravestone.
Ghost World is the story of Enid and Becky, two best friends growing up and growing apart.
Perhaps it's because I wasn't a teen in 90s USA, or perhaps I because I just wasn't like these particular teens, but I found them too pretentious and unpleasant to appreciate what happened to them.
Although I enjoyed the occasional panel, the story and artwork didn't work for me.
I welcome graphic novels about what it's like to be a teenage girl, but Ghost World sadly isn't one of them.I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books.
Το Ghost World δεν είναι κόμικς, είναι γκράφικ νόβελ: τα καρέ του δεν μπλέκονται το ένα μέσα στο άλλο, έχουν σαφή ρυμοτομία.
Δεν είναι για όλους το κόμικς του Clowes.
Εμένα που μ' αρέσει η εναλλακτική, κινηματογραφική αφήγηση που αναπτύσσεαι τα τελευταία χρόνια στην άλλη πλευρά του Ατλαντικού, μ΄ άρεσε η ιστορία, μ΄άρεσαν και τα σχέδια του Clowes γιατί αφήνουν την ιστορία να κυλήσει από μόνη της, φαινομενικά διακπαιρεωτικά, αλλά απολύτως χαριτωμένα, πάνκικα με σαφείς αναφορές στα εναλλακτικά κόμικς των 70s.Είναι σκληρό, αλλά κάτω από την επιφάνεια τρυφερό το βιβλίο τούτο.
Αν σας αρέσει η ιδέα μια ιστορίας μέσα απο καρέ, αλλά τα συμβατικά κόμικς τα έχετε κατατάξει σε ιστορίες με μπέρτες και γροθιές, ένα τέτοιο βιβλίο θα σας κάνει να αναθεωρήσετε για τις δυνατότητες της 9ης Τέχνης.
I had heard great things about this and was on board until I found out it was a graphic novel.
Okay, don't hate me, but something abou graphic novels turns me off.
And when I say 'into them' what I really mean is that she found a boy she liked who liked comics so she had to know absolutely everything there was to know about the genre and it was the most pretentious thing ever.
I guess that whole relationship between Enid and Rebecca hit home.(see above) Thanks alot.Oh, and I don't need to hear how great Scarlet Johansson was in the movie either.And it sort of freaks me out that it was written by a guy.Okay, I'm done now.
Sure, this one started it all but it is interesting to see where the screenwriter's words maintained such a close fidelity to Clowes's vision; keeping the same spirit of the book in the movie is a wonder to behold.
While the film seems incredibly depressing at times, the comic manages to make you feel that there is no sadness in the Ghost World world, only wackiness and teenage girl banter, um "Daria meets Pulp Fiction." There was one particular gag about a girl diagnosed with cancer, and the chance meeting between the heroines and the poor girl...
GW focuses on the everyday antics of best friends Enid and Rebecca who seem to drift through life, commenting on creepy-looking newscasters, pervy guys in bookstores and bitching about Melorra (these latter scenes had me in stitches!) But they don't just bitch and pass judgement on others (although most of the time they do), they talk about their futures, where they see themselves, why they're still single and who they should make out with next; they (briefly) discuss politics, music...and Josh.
I liked it but didn't love it.Two best friends since childhood fight but are inseparable sometime after high school but before college/work/life.
Really, they are flailing in that teenage angsty way.Clowes captures the Essence of Hipster Friendship*.
But then it has the flashes of hilarity.Also, I'd like to point out that Clowes is a middle-aged dude writing teenage girls perfectly.
I saw him at a book festival recently, and he mentioned that he doesn't consider Ghost World as his best work.
That's more than enough to make me read more Clowes.*Now a fragrance for sale at that one small, grimy store downtown.
I could easily see myself depicted in a panel in this lovely graphic novel, with its snarky young teen heroine Enid reading my review of it and saying something like: "I mean, what kind of loser dork has the time to write a *review* of a 20-year-old graphic novel.
At first, I wasn't liking the book as much as the film, but as I read, I was slowly captured by its spell, its mood, its wisdom.There are substantial differences between this and the movie, so I'd recommend both, as adjunct and complementary works.
I re-read this on a whim and I'm certain I did not enjoy it this much 4 years ago. It's beautifully drawn and such an accurate description of a co-dependent adolescent best friendship. The ending made me so sad...
I just stopped hating Daniel Clowes' graphic novel "Ghost World" like 7 minutes ago.
So rarely that I can remember that we did have a fight in 2007 while watching the movie "Ghost World" about how much I hated the movie "Ghost World." It was a lot of me ranting, not unlike Enid, and him confused at my outburst.Other fact: I was drunk.When a person decides to pull up a chair up to the whole graphic novels table, and when a person divulges that this new interest probably won't include books with Super Werewolves and Masked Crusaders, people already at the table will recommend "Ghost World." If a person adds a few graphic novels to her Amazon Wish List, Amazon will recommend "Ghost World." It is, apparently, part of the canon.
A male friend of mine once commented that the main characters of Ghost World didn't seem authentic because "their interests didn't seem to ring true for teenage girls".
Or else they spend time imagining people to be "Satanists" or what have you in order to spice up a fairly bland existence.
Trouble is, Enid and Rebecca aren't exactly the lovable-outcast-against-the-system types often found in teen dramas of this sort either.
Enid expresses a vague desire to go to a new place and become a whole new person, but what sort of person exactly?
As a big fan of the movie adaptation I've always been curious but slightly hesitant to read the comic book.
Can't say I personally relate to either Enid or Rebecca, but I felt like I know those girls, I've seen bits and pieces of them in other people.
You might call them mean and unlikeable, but I feel a bit of tenderness for them.
I liked it, but I can see why some people wouldn't.
I'd say the movie is a lot more accessible and "cool".
I haven't read very many comics or graphic novels, but I thought I'd explore them more this year starting with this book which kept popping up on "best of" lists in its category.My first surprise when I opened the book was seeing that every skillfully drawn picture was in black and white and green--a ghostly green--so I guess this made sense considering the book's title and how it and the colors echoed the feeling of limbo and separateness that the main characters had from a more substantial and cheerful world full of color.
Some people will focus on the story's aimlessness, as well as the negativity dominating the book, most of it coming from Enid as she leads Becky into some cruel practical jokes against unsuspecting friends and strangers alike.
Ghost World isn't a bad graphic novel, but I found it really overrated and rather vulgar at times in an unnecessary way, similar to films like Mary Jane Isn't a Virgin Anymore... it got to the point where it was just crude and immature. On the bright side the art inside, the drawings of scenery and people, was amazing and worth it just to see it all.
There was just something about this that made me feel icky the entire time I was reading it.

I have a great affection for Ghost World in both book and movie form, and not just because half of the movie was shot like three blocks from my apartment (The movie theater Enid works at for awhile really is THAT pathetic).
It speaks truth to (lack of) power.
A book like High Fidelity gently questions are assumptions and styles.
Ghost World slaps you upside the head, making no bones about the fact that just because our disfunction are different from most people we're no better.
Being fucked up in a different way doesn't make you any less fucked up.
It's also really interesting art design.
The story is about two best friends basically just chilling and going around their city in the 90's trying to figure out life.
Cursing, sex, and other wonderful subjects are thrown into the mix and it makes for a real chilled, laid back, fun little graphic novel.
Their best friends and the way they interact feel REAL.
I also enjoy teh art design.
What I didn't like: The amount of cursing was a little TOO much.
I cursed since I was 2.
I also thought the story jumped a lot and there was no real plot.
I read this over a decade ago so I thought it was high time to return to what is widely regarded as Daniel Clowes’ masterpiece and one of the finest comics to crossover to mainsteam literature.
The book is also a brilliant portrait of two best friends and their complex relationship and is a paean to friendships held in our youth, and how finding out our true selves and desires can break these friendships and lead us far from the people we once were.
It’s easily one of the best books ever written about growing up and an utterly absorbing read.
Ghost World by Daniel ClowesWell crafted, but excruciating to read, as the characters are both unlikeable, but in desperate need of the reader's sympathy as they're so pathetic.
Kelly and I talked about how much less likeable the characters are in the book than they are in the movie (and they aren't exactly loveable in that incarnation, either).In fact, Clowes' entire world is rather pathetic.
This is, I presume, because it's written through the lense of Enid, though.Enid's self hatred is even more evident in the original story than in the movie.
This book has no class.Like mommy Strangers in Paradise it features two young woman who are just trying to find their way in the world but like Daddy JtHM, it hates everyone and swears up a storm.
The writing wasn't witty or new, it was all the cliche stuff we expect 'nihilistic', misanthropic teenagers say.I will at least give credit where it's due in the sake that they did feel like real people.Real people I'd never hang out with.If you liked this book, I'd recommend Strangers in Paradise for some quality "Who am I and what's my purpose?" story.
Ghost World by Daniel Clowes has been the only comic book so far from the library that I haven't enjoyed completely.
It was a pretty strong reaction as well, as while reading the book I felt an almost physical urge to put it down.
I had to think about why this was so for quite a while before realizing that far from the book being bad, it was instead too good.I'll explain.
Perhaps if I'd read it in the depths of a grey wet autumn day I might have identified better with it and consequently 'enjoyed' it more.
