https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76958.The_Mystery_of_the_Aztec_Warrior

THis Book is totally awesome,after i read it, i felt like going into the book myself~!I`ll explain what the book is all about,here goes! The handwritten will of a deceased world-traveler is stange and mysterious.its cryptic instructions are to deliver"the valuable Aztec Warrior to the rightful owner,What is the name of the owner and where is he? Despite the harassments,the threats, and attacks made upon them by a unknown gang.The search continues!
THis Book is totally awesome,after i read it, i felt like going into the book myself~!I`ll explain what the book is all about,here goes! The handwritten will of a deceased world-traveler is stange and mysterious.its cryptic instructions are to deliver"the valuable Aztec Warrior to the rightful owner,What is the name of the owner and where is he? Despite the harassments,the threats, and attacks made upon them by a unknown gang.The search continues!
It was a good book full of mystery and adventure and had action in each page.
This series always delivers.
The Aztec Warrior is one of the many Hardy Boys Books.
So the Hardys went to Mexico to try to find the descendant of the warrior before the descendant gets the valuable item and uses it for evil.
But as you know if you have read any Hardy Boys book, they can always escape.
I would totally recommend this to any person who has previously read the Hardy Boys.
And even if you have not, this would also be a very good book to start on.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This is one by Harriet Adams.I really enjoy the Hardy Boys' trips to Mexico. They all seem to be really good! This one was no different.
Liked it as a kid!
Not the best Hardy Boys mystery. Moving too quickly? I don't know.
This book is a very good it is jam packed with adventure and mystery.
A man by the name of Mr. Moore has died and left a mysterious will that that a “valuable Aztec warrior object be given to the rightful owner, who claims to be a direct descendant of an Aztec warrior”.
Joe changes over the space of the story from being a little bit inexperienced to being very good.I liked this book because there was so many twists and turns you never know what will happen.
There is so much mystery in this series I have enjoyed it very much.
An unusual will sets Frank and Joe Hardy on the search for an Aztec Warrior, with very few clues to go on. As is often the case in this series, coincidence plays a large role in the solution. Interesting facts about the history of Mexico are included in the text.
I'm a big fan of the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew series. Although I would normally just breeze through the books, this was just a bit of a drag for me. I was already more than halfway through the book, but they still haven't found a single piece of clue. Some of the dialogues were stated as narratives which kind of turned me off. The ghost writer was good enough to write a story about the Aztec civilization, but could have done better. Still, I'm looking forward to finding a book with a collaboration between the Hardys and Drew.
The writing in many of the Hardy Boys books is okay at best, being as they are aimed at children, and the mystery here feels a little forced, with the clues being almost a complete waste of time as much of the discovery comes from the brothers asking around after the missing archeologist. Add in a large number of digs at Chet Morton's weight, and some interesting facts for kids about Mexico, and you have yourself a pretty standard yet oddly entertaining book.
When I was in elementary school I just about read all of the Hardy Boys books. I recently found a few at the thrift store for like 50 cents each and being a book lover that I am picked them all up. ;) This is the first one I have read and it was just as exciting as when I was a kid. I couldn't put the book down until I finished it and reading it made me want to try and find them all so that my son can one day enjoy them as I have.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their father's footsteps.
Even though I am not really into Aztecs, I figured I would enjoy this book anyway as it was a Hardy Boys, but I was disappointed. I felt like the mystery was rather lacking. It felt like a long chase after something very simple.
When I was still schooling, I tried to read all of the Hardy Boys books. I didn't come close to finishing the whole series, and by now I had already forgot most of the content of those that I had read. But I do recall how much I loved reading each and every one of them.
Any book that starts with a dying man's cryptic note and ends up at the pyramids of Mexico has my attention. This is one of the better Hardy Boys mysteries because it avoids many of the pitfalls of a long-running series. This one clicked.
speechless....
Why must Chet always be described as "stout"? Seriously, I would not put up with Frank and Joe the way he does.
Review by Ryan A.This is packed with adventure. It would be good for any mystery lover.
Dixon, Franklin W.
the aztec warrior is a sword?????!!
Read in 2005.
That was my first book i read , i was 14 It amazed me ,totally awesome
Still an enjoyable read after all these years!!
Students can compare and contrast the personality traits of eighteen-year-old Frank and seventeen-year-old Joe.
The Hardy Boys search for an indian relic
A fun read which is full of action and adventure.
Charlie and I continue to read the Hardy Boys series. There is one scene in this one where an old lady swings a rooster around that absolutely cracked Charlie up.
