https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5439.Interpreter_of_Maladies
How’s this for blurbs: when the female author published this collection of short stories at age 32 in 1999, she won the Pulitzer Prize, the Pen/Hemingway Award and the New Yorker’s Debut Book of the Year.
Like the author’s other collection of shorts that I have reviewed (Unaccustomed Earth, 2008) these stories are about Bengali immigrants in the US from the Bengal area of India, around Kolkata (formerly Calcutta).
In “Mrs. Sen’s,” an eleven-year old boy learns the depth of the loneliness of a Bengali woman in Boston who desperately misses her native country and her large extended family back in India.“A Real Durwan” is one of two stories set back in India, not in the USA.
In 2000 Jhumpa Lahiri became the first Indian American to win the Pulitzer Prize for fiction for her short story collection The Interpreter of Maladies.
Even though each story is brilliant in its own right, three stand out in creating an upbeat environment upon conclusion: the keynote story The Interpreter of Maladies where Mrs. Das comes to terms with herself as the story ends; The Story of Bibi Haldar where the title character is ostracized and desires to marry above all else; and the ending story The Third and Final Continent with an unnamed protagonist who looks back on his first days in America thirty years later.
This happened with "Interpreter of Maladies", a perfectly-titled collection of short stories about Indian Americans in India or in the U.S. Their ages & experiences range from children to marrieds to 103 year-olds, from tourism in the old world to the assimilation to a new one.
The first story makes me shiver just thinking about it--I made my students read it as an example of the perfect short story.
& the last one encapsulates the author's overall thesis perfectly.
It's all a masterpiece & kind of a true privilege to read.
Short story, on the other hand, is like literary speed dating; it only has so much time to set itself apart and make a somewhat decent expression.
Her novel The Namesake left me wanting more, but her short stories are very well-done.
As ordinary as it all appears, there are times when it is beyond my imagination." Lahiri writes about India and Indian heritage, be it Indian immigrants to American university towns or people in India.
As ordinary as it all appears, there are times when it is beyond my imagination."Overall, I enjoyed this story collection quite a bit.
Enriched with colorful details of the Indian tradition, cuisine and celebrations, this collection of nine stories addresses the universal struggle of getting adapted to the ways of a foreign homeland without losing one’s original roots.Lahiri’s prose is fluid and simple, but it more than meets the challenge of building a bridge between two different worlds with amazing precision, delineating a tight-knitted atmosphere that serves as common ground for all the stories.
Interpreter of Maladies, Jhumpa LahiriInterpreter of Maladies is a book collection of nine short stories by Indian American author Jhumpa Lahiri published in 1999. It won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the Hemingway Foundation/PEN Award in the year 2000. The stories are about the lives of Indians and Indian Americans who are caught between their roots and the "New World."عنوانهای فارسی چاپ شده از این کتاب: ترجمان دردها؛ ترجمان ناخوشیها؛ مترجم بیماریها؛ مترجم دردها؛ مترجم ناخوشیها؛ نویسنده: ج

In this stirring collection of short stories, Jhumpa Lahiri displays the diasporic struggle of men, assailed by nightmares of home, over the dilemma of assimilating into the new world or holding on to the past culture.
The author exhibits her majestic power of story telling with such grace and allure that the most wonderful thing happened to me today.
This doesn't happen often.
After all, home has beckoned us all.My thoughts have been vigorously rejigged.
Lahiri's steadfast curiosity about human valor and her beautiful drawing of human spirit have left me stunned.
My favorite was the title story about a part-time taxi driver taking an American family around to see temples near Calcutta.
The way in which the author invokes the cultural distance between the driver and the tourists and his infatuation with the mother/wife of the family is beautiful without being sappy - and sincere enough that the woman actually confesses an infidelity to him.
The saddest story I felt was that of Mrs. Sen who takes brief care of little Elliot for a short time in which he learns about frailty and loneliness (mirrored between that of his mother and that of Mrs. Sen).
“She watched his lips forming the words, at the same time she heard them under her skin, under her winter coat, so near and full of warmth that she felt herself go hot.” “It was only then, raising my water glass in his name, that I knew what it meant to miss someone who was so many miles and hours away, just as he had missed his wife and daughters for so many months.” Her stories transcend the cultural & ethnic aspect of things, any person can relate to all these experiences.
The weak candle-light casts a melancholy feeling only to these important things.
Amazing, extraordinary - there aren't enough superlatives for this one!The first story, A Temporary Matter tells of a young married couple who must endure a one hour power outage for five consecutive nights.
In a later story, this sentence I read and reread: The beach was barren and dull to play on alone; the only neighbors who stayed on past Labor Day, a young married couple, had no children, and Eliot no longer found it interesting to gather broken mussel shells in his bucket, or to stroke the seaweed, strewn like strips of emerald lasagna on the sand.
And I really don't care that she's a woman (other than the fact that I'm trying to read more women this year) or that she's Indian American (although both are a significant part of this collection).
I don't believe she was subsidized for either being a woman or being Indian, of if she was I really don't care.
If I could sum it up, I'd guess that this book probably won the writer lottery: the right good book gets published at the perfect momemnt.The stories themselves gave me the same temperate, nuanced, soft vibe I get when I read Kazuo Ishiguro or Julian Barnes.
This is the 9.178th review on the book, and I’m the 140.434th Goodreads member to rate it.
Not at all because it’s good, but because I was lucky to have found supportive friends, who understand how important it is for a person to get a little attention and to be able to share their experiences with others.
So if you push that ‘like’ button, it means much more to me than a position among the 9.179 reviews on this book.
What it really means to me is that you’re giving me a real sense of belonging to this community of readers, and a sense of being valued.
This collection won the Pen/Hemingway Award, the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and— most impressively—the New Yorker Debut of the Year.
This collection arrived at a time when an Indian writer hadn’t been given a Pulitzer or important award, and the committee wanted to expand its reach outside middle-class white male Americans.
The stories in this collection are fine but all utilise the same straightforward, overly descriptive, consciously “traditional” narrative voice, one that doesn’t take risks or explore interesting forms or ideas, falling back on saccharine or poetic tropes to go for the heartstrings and not the intellect, using human dramas in far-off homelands to manipulate the immigrant reader rather than new or novel techniques.
Real credit goes to authors who write about lifestyles that they are totally unfamiliar with.Take Yann Martel (Yes!He is one of my favorite authors!) for example, his description of life in India in his award winning book, Life Of Pi, is commendable.
Unfamiliar with India as he was, he sure did his homework before he wrote the book.I am currently reading The Namesake by Lahiri to see if I can change my opinion on her writings.
After all, reading one book isn't always enough to rate an author who has worked so hard on writing full fledged books!
As you may already know, Interpreter of Maladies is not a novel but a collection of 9 short stories, which I will now review in turn, albeit briefly.A TEMPORARY MATTER is about an Indian-American couple who’s on the skids due to the stillbirth of their first child.
It’s also a reflective (and informative) work on cultural differences in the US, and all in all, I found it to be quite a satisfying read.INTERPRETER OF MALADIES is about an Indian-American family visiting famous sights in India with their Indian guide.
(hide spoiler)]Em “Intérprete de Enfermidades”, Jhumpa Lahiri, relata de uma forma extraordinária as diferentes perspectivas que duas personagens podem ter para com o casamento, a felicidade, a solidão e o fracasso.4 – “Um Verdadeiro Durwan” - 3 Estrelas: Boomi Ma, com sessenta e quatro anos, é uma pobre varredoura de escadas, uma porteira, uma “durwan”, num prédio antigo de apartamentos de Calcutá, que gosta de fabular, contando histórias sobre o seu passado.
In both cases, what separates most of these stories from the tale of The Namesake is that they simply reproduce all the stereotypes and tropes of Indian-Bengali culture, whereas the novel actually took the time to explore the realities of such cultural norms.
The characters do not challenge the culture (which I admit is a very Western expectation), but they didn't even add any nuances to the day-to-day of arranged marriage.Lahiri is a good writer, as a few of these stories and her novel indicate.
Like her novel The Namesake, Lahiri's collection of short stories deals mainly with the experience of Indian immigrants in America.
The few conversations that do occur don't attempt any witty banter, preferring to go right ahead and drown you in subtle tragedy, like this exchange from "Mrs. Sen's" (it's told from the perspective of Eliot, an eleven-year-old who spends every afternoon at the house of his Indian babysitter, and it was my favorite in the collection:"Mrs. Sen took the aerogram from India out of her purse and studied the front and back.
We read 3 of these short stories last semester in my Indian/African literature class, and since this entire collection won the Pulitzer, I just wanted to go ahead and finish the entire thing.
I enjoyed the ones we read for class, and I continued to love the rest of them!
Lahiri has an amazing writing style with such great references to immigration and relationships and they're stories that you can reread over and over and locate something new in.
I've heard her other short story collection is good, but her novel is not as amazing, but I definitely have my eye on her!
A beautiful collection of stories. The way Jhumpa Lahiri brings the ordinariness of life alive through her words. I simply loved this book. One I’ll treasure by my bedside table to reread many times over.
بعد از چند سال که دوباره خواندمش انگار چیزهایی به کتاب اضافه شده و در این مدتی که کتاب توی کتابخانهام بوده داستانها مثل درخت رشد کردهاند و شاخ و برگ دادهاند. همهشان داستانهای معرکهای هستند و میشود به تنهایی برای هر کدام یک تحلیل مفصل نوشت. عناصر داستانی به بهترین شکل ممکن به کار گرفته شدهاند و درونمایهی داستانها هم در عین سادگیشان که نشات گرفته از احساسات انسانی و مسائل سادهی زندگی هستند، داستانهای کامل و عمیقی ساختهاند. داستان «یک مسئلهی موقتی» داستان زن و مردی است که رابطهشان به دلایلی دچار سر
بعد از چند سال که دوباره خواندمش انگار چیزهایی به کتاب اضافه شده و در این مدتی که کتاب توی کتابخانه‌ام بوده داستان‌ها مثل درخت رشد کرده‌اند و شاخ و برگ داده‌اند.
و مسئله‌ی موقتی قطع برق در چند ساعت از شب باعث می‌شود که آن‌ها هر کدام به نوعی با این مسئله برخورد کنند.
مرد تصورات خودش را دارد، نگاه زن، کلام گاه صمیمانه‌اش که بعد از ماه‌ها اتفاق می‌افتد و فشردن دستش توسط او، هر کدام مرد را به سوی برداشتی می‌کشاند اما خواننده نمی‌داند آن‌سو در مرزهای زن چه اتفاقی می‌افتد.
I do not think that Lahiri is an exceptional crafter of prose, but she does have a talent for penetrating the human spirit.
The stories reveal how culture and upbringing can be fulfilling and liberating, yet also deeply stifling and limiting.
The need to belong is powerful, but so is the desire to be accepted and to fit in.
The stories centre around Indians living abroad, but their experiences are shared human experiences: separation, loss, infidelity, guilt, ostracisation, and the breakdown of relationships.
With subjects like these, it's no wonder that these stories are so powerful, poignant and filled with sadness.
It’s a collection of 9 short stories based on the experiences of Indian immigrants; some stories are set in India while others, abroad.
The writing transcends the boundary of culture to portray universal emotions of love, loss, hope which are relatable.While I loved some of the stories, others, I did not care for much.
This story depicts the support and importance of community life.‘The Third and Final Continent’ in which the narrator who’s an immigrant reminisce about the past and ponders upon the life he has created.Overall, it’s a nice collection of short stories.
In the title story,  Interpreter of Maladies , Mr. Das was a compelling figure.
Her emotional state is sensitively chronicled throughout.As in her later book,  Unaccustomed Earth , Lahiri has involved our gustatory senses with her many vivd descriptions of food, either simply as unusual snacks, bowls of cereal, or lavish spreads for families and/or guests.
There does not appear to be an area where she was unable to capture and sustain interest in her eloquent voice.I must issue my gratitude to my Goodreads Friends who urged me to read this fine book by this distinguished author!
In the future, we'll still have libraries, but how will we get a book for a dollar we can take into the bath with us?
But as a book found in a Japanese use book store for 115 yen (about 1 US dollar), now I could reread the stories and write my own marginal notes.
This book won't be a sentimental object; instead, it will be the object of my marginal notes.
Who knows who will pick up the book next somewhere down the line?
What is the ROI of a used book store?
A pleasant collection of short stories.My favorites are the following two:(1) 'A Real Darwan', something I could relate to the social structure in Calcutta, after a touristic trip I made there a few years ago(2) 'Sexy', a touching story of the painful effects of parental infidelity on a little boy, coming of age.
Most of the short stories are characterized by recurring themes of Indians trying to cope with an alien way of life in America and the subtle identity crisis triggered in one by a life away from one's homeland.
Barring a few vivid descriptions of various cultural idiosyncrasies, there is nothing striking about any of the stories.
Neither do the stories achieve any emotional resonance of sorts nor is there any strong overarching message one can perceive from a peremptory reading of the collection.
I only felt some semblance of a connection with the stories of Mr Pirzada, Bibi Haldar and The Third and Final Continent.
This is an excellent book of short stories. I won't forget the first story "A Temporary Matter", it is heartbreaking.
Did she use her stories to inform of the Indian Diaspora, one wonders?
They don't just smoke cigarettes, they "smoke Rothmans." They don't just wear shoes, they wear, "black-patent leather mules with heels like golf tees, open toes, and slightly soiled silk labels on the instep where her soles had rested." They don't just experience windy days, they experience a "wind so strong that they had to walk backward." Mrs. Sen didn't just clean fish.
I loved them all but my favorites were:A Real Durwan- I really liked the mystery of Boori Ma, the woman who always told people about what she had lost after she was deported to Calcutta.
اصلا دوست نداشتم این کتاب رو! داستان های معمولی و بی سر و تهی که بیشتر خسته کننده بود تا جذاب یا حتی آموزندهتنها نکته های مثبت کتاب این بود که فهمیدم ما چقدر خوش شانسیم که به جای هند تو ایران زندگی می کنیم و اینکه زندگی متاهلی ، کسل کننده تر از اون چیزی هست که همیشه فکرش رو می کردم:))
