https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782982.The_Lonely_Passion_of_Judith_Hearne
Judith Hearne, a Catholic middle-aged spinster, moves into yet another bed-sit in Belfast. A socially isolated woman of modest means, she teaches piano to a handful of students to pass the day. Her only social activity is tea with the O'Neill family, who secretly dread her weekly visits. After finishing the wonderful Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine which also deals with similar themes albeit on a much more humorous level I wanted to revisit Judith Herne as I had enjoyed it so much first tim
Judith Hearne, a Catholic middle-aged spinster, moves into yet another bed-sit in Belfast.
First published in 1955 this novel is a real classic and I can see why Mr Moore was shortlisted for the Booker Prize three times.The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne is an unflinching and deeply sympathetic portrait of a woman destroyed by self and circumstance.
This is quite a small novel but Mr Moore makes every word count and not only do you get a feel for the characters you really are a fly on the wall of the Bed Sit with Judith Hearne.
"I think you're as lonely as a Sunday morningThat never had a Saturday night."  *That's Judy Hearne, all right, though she honestly likes Sundays. It's the one day each week when she has plenty to do. First, there's church, followed by her visit to the O'Neill household for tea. She has such fun thinking of the stories she will tell and the gossip she will share.It began with the long tram ride to their house which gave you plenty of time to rehearse the things you would tell them, interesting
She has such fun thinking of the stories she will tell and the gossip she will share.It began with the long tram ride to their house which gave you plenty of time to rehearse the things you would tell them, interesting things that would make them smile and be glad you had come.
Other women always had their children and shopping and running a house to chat about.Oh, but poor Judy...if she only knew how the O'Neills dread her arrival.
Any day now, she could meet a man, and any man could be the man.Judy Hearne, she said, you've got to stop right this minute.
Oh sweet lord if there is a more excruciatingly, exquisitely, exactingly, deliriously wretched little book out there, I don't think I could even handle it.What an absolute motherfucking masterpiece.
(Or what passes for goodness on the sliding scale of values, at any rate.) Mitigation is so much harder to come by, however, in the merciless tale of Judith Hearne, a friendless, unattractive, alcoholic spinster who whiles away her empty days aided only by a few tenuous delusions and an increasingly wavering faith in God. One particularly brutal aspect of the novel is its shifting perspective; usually it is through Hearne's eyes that we take in this artfully bleak Belfast, but occasionally we sidle over to other characters' viewpoints—minor characters as well as major ones—through which we discover (much to our horror) that Hearne's already gloomy opinion of her world doesn't quite go far enough.
let's just say that once in a while I stumbled into correct opinions when I was young and idiotic; that The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne is a great novel is certainly one of them.
Judith’s clinginess and desperation is awkward to read about if you know someone like that.
For eventually, they all made some excuse.Judith’s “friends” mock her behind her back and treat her visits as a chore, and at first we think Judith is clueless, and then we start to think what if she knows?
She’s a silly, irritating and fitful woman, but somewhere in the pitying we start to feel bad for her because for some people there’s never a sporting chance at happiness.
Again, Judith never stood a chance because (view spoiler)[he’s only interested in gold-digging and raping the maid.
(hide spoiler)]Judith starts spiraling down.
The first half of the book is quite comic in tone, with darker undercurrents that increase as the story proceeds.
Judith has sacrificed her best years to caring for a tyrannical aunt, and now has occasional work as a piano teacher while dreaming of better things and relying on her Catholic faith.One of her fellow tenants is the landlady's brother James Madden, who has recently returned from 30 years in America.
The second half is so relentlessly sad and bleak that I found it almost painful to read, but the book remains haunting and probably memorable.
This book was so densely bleak yet with enough comic undertones that I found it surprisingly humorous at times.
Poor Judy is a pitiful character, who is so sorrowful for all the crosses she’s had to bear.
This author is brilliant in his ability to get into the head of this lonely female character.
The writing alone made this a 5 star read for me, with all the shifting points of view and vivid descriptions.
I personally think this would make an excellent book club read but the themes were very dark and the characters unlikable.
Such a sad story of a tortured soul. A beautifully executed novel that does pack a wallop. I've had this novel in my to be read pile for years and have had a lot of recommendations for it but the timing just wasn't right for the read.It's an emotionally draining read, of a complex woman, her "battle" with alcohol, her guilt, and her faith. I can't remember having read a novel where a male author has been able to portray a woman so finely, delicately as the author was able to do in this novel.
(view spoiler)[The loss of faith angle is icing on the top for this non-Catholic.
(hide spoiler)]Seven things for now:1) Feels like Slaves of Solitude, but with the added religious layer.2) What an eviscerating portrait of social class and religious intolerance.
It's not accidental that Moore was writing this as an ex-pat from Montreal.
I can see this on stage so easily (internal dialogue notwithstanding).
6) The ending - (view spoiler)[does she or doesn't she regain her faith?
(hide spoiler)] - reminded me of the similar ambiguity for Fr. Emilio in The Sparrow.7) Almost as - nay, more!
(view spoiler)[Very surprised that Judith didn't take that path out.
(hide spoiler)]
One of the saddest stories I've ever read regarding a woman's life ... so much the victim to her background and times. Judith's wanting to be loved in spite of everything and yet failing is terribly upsetting... there was a moment I stop reading as I felt so much pity for her ... No passion that can be shared for Judith ...
The shoe eyes staring at Judith Hearne throughout the novel, accusing, laughing along, leering, laughing at.
Finally indifferent, like all, nearly all she meets, particularly men.
A masterful piece of writing, cleverly and so economically done.
Some parts are from different povs which gets you through the plot in an efficient way, and gives sidelights and other views on the protagonist.
The last few chapters when the character goes from address to address in her hired car is almost insanely economical, and deeply affecting.
A lovely experience, actually, the writing never letting you down, and a moving one.Thanks Ryan, and others for putting me on to this.
If we don't have our delusions how can we live? This is well written heartbreaking masterpiece of a book.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Herr, lehre doch mich,daß ein Ende mit mir haben muß,und mein Leben ein Ziel hat,und ich davon muß." "For all flesh is as grass,and the glory of manlike flowers.The grass withersand the flower falls...Therefore be patient, dear brothers,for the coming of the Lord.Behold, the husbandman waitsfor the delicious fruits of the earthand is patient for it...Lord, teach meThat I must have an end,And my life has a purpose,and I must accept this."So here we have a bit of Brahms, which is what this book brings me to when I read it : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l6zpV...Now, on my second reading of it, I find it even more disquieting than before.
Judith Hearne believes the fabric of her life displays a certain design.
This book was simply devastating.
In many ways her lonely passion is not only the longing for male companionship (and companionship of any kind) but also her lonely passion for religion - a one sided relationship that, as her life unravels, seems all the less accessible, real, and comforting.Judy's life is a series of slammed doors, felt more by the reader than she, and so the lonely passion is all the more tragic as she cannot even share the reality of her situation with herself.
Set in the 1950s in Belfast, in a very Catholic population among the larger Protestant majority, The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne by Brian Moore tells of a fortyish spinster who bets it all on a former hotel doorman who's been to America.
But Judith not only has not the money, but is interested only in what she sees as her last chance at matrimony.
At the same time, she loses her faith in God. Moore follows Miss Hearne's descent into the abyss without blinking.
In the end, The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne is a small masterpiece.
But I will.This is a book that I'm envious of, envious of not having written it.
Hoping against hope that her situation will change even as she does almost nothing to change it.I suppose this book couldn't really be written now, because so much has changed since 1950s Belfast.
Nowadays, Judith would be told to go back to school, get some new skills and find herself a new job and hopefully new friends...but even now, could she have, really?She struck me as an utterly damaged soul - damaged by her upbringing, by her religion, by her lack of connections and inability to make them.
Moore focuses increasingly on Judith’s piety and her increasing infatuation with Madden even as he reveals more about her by having her pay her usual Sunday afternoon visit to her friends, the O’Neill family, all of the members of which clearly find her tedious and boring.
Later, at home, Judith learns that Madden has been only a hotel doorman in America, becomes disillusioned and unglued, and, succumbing to her “secret vice,” drinks herself into oblivion in her room.
A visit to her old friend, sick with arthritis and alcoholism in a convent nursing home, ends badly when they are caught drinking gin.
The images created by the author and shared by the reader are those reserved for private screenings between the two.Our protagonist Judith Hearne is a middle-aged woman with little charm, limited education, and a rather plain appearance, who has devoted her life to caring for her now deceased aunt.
Add to this mix, the landlady's brother, James, a brash and outspoken large man just returned from years in America, as well as an assorted group of characteristically crude boarders and you have the depressing world of Judith Hearne.
Has Judith's life and understanding been truly changed at the end or has she simply moved her priceless icons to a new setting?

One of the saddest stories I have read in the recent times........It is about a forty year old Catholic plain looking poor spinster (Judith Hearne) whose sole aim is to be married and to have a home to share with someone.
The struggle of a believer (Catholic) is another important theme in the book.
The author himself was a Catholic and he had to struggle with his belief which he disowned consequently.
These passages in the book can in fact be read as the author's own struggle with the Catholic teachings/belief.
Take what might be a fairly typical Irish boarding house drama, add a lot of Catholic doubt and guilt plus a forlorn, aging spinster and her awful matron landlady, and this novel is what you'll get. It made me so sad I might skip my planned gin & tonic this evening. I wouldn't call this a tender or sentimental story, but rather, a devastating treatment of Belfast's most vulnerable class. Tragic, on a very small scale.
First published in 1955, The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne is a novel by the Northern Irish writer, Brian Moore.
It’s a book I’ve been saving for quite a while, thinking that it might be my kind of read.
Turns out I was right, as it’s definitely one of the best novels I’ve read in recent months, if not this year.
Its focus is Judith Hearne, a plain, unmarried woman in her early forties who finds herself shuttling from one dismal bedsit to another in an effort to find a suitable place to live.To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
The titular lonely lady lives in a bedsit in a Belfast street I know well, as my parents own a house there which is rented out to students.
I was therefore aware of this book from a young age, but it had an exotic taint to it, as it was anti-Church, and perhaps involved immoral living.
But, for the most part, it was a moving character study, had all the Catholic angst of a cracking Graham Greene, and was well written.
And it features a great minor character - a fat indolent mummy's boy - who Philip Seymour Hoffman was born to play.
"If I am alone it does not matter what life I lead. It does not matter. And if I die I am a dead thing. I have no eternal life. No one will remember me, no one will weep for me. No one will reward the good I have done, no one will punish the sins I have committed. No one."
It’s difficult to explain, but this book is something like a sculpture of life carved out of the stuff that comprises human thought.
Moore establishes these beliefs in his characters and then lets them crack revealing the relative emptiness that lies beneath these authoritative constructs.
This revealing speaks to the human desire for truth and illuminates the dangers of living a life of beliefs that are exclusive of reality.
But it also speaks to comforts that pure belief can provide if one is fortunate enough to make it through to the end with one's beliefs intact.
"Friends. O, how did I deceive myself all these years? A friend is hurt when you are hateful. No one is Christ. Friends are human, they resent. You don't resent, Moira. No, you pity me, you urge me to come again. Come and we will be nice. We will feel sorry for you. No, I have your charity. I lost friendship for it. You are paid. You are rid of me."This book quietly grips your heart and slowly, inexorably crushes it into dust.
In addition, Judith appears to have moved around a bit since her aunt died, and as the novel begins she has just moved into a room in lodging house.
He had looked down on Miss Hearne for a long time, almost half her lifetime." The landlady, Mrs. Rice and her creepy, perverted adult son, Bernie, with his "long blond curls" are a couple of odd ducks.
When Mrs Rice's brother, James Madden returns from the US and decides to stay with his sister at the lodging house a while, Judith has strange imaginings that he may be the man for her.
devastated by the friendly shoe eyes always being there
Eventually, an ongoing situation with the American brother of her landlady results in the revealing of a secret closely guarded by Judith, which in turn sets in motion a series of events which brings the novel to its sad conclusion.I'm fascinated by the social history of Belfast, and this novel, while being written about the contemporary Belfast of the 1950s, brought the historic attitudes and makeup of the city alive for me, particularly through the glimpse of life given by minor characters.
