https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7094569-feed
Traditional news organizations have given way to the rise of internet journalism, and the trio of young bloggers must uncover a terrible conspiracy and disseminate information to their readers, all while risking their very lives.The strengths in this novel include incredibly well thought-out world-building, strong characters, snappy dialogue, unexpected plot twists, and excellent action sequences.
I wish there was also better build up of tension, a few more zombie encounters, less politics (a personal preference, though, since I find politics a big snoozefest), a less prolonged ending following a major game-changing event, and a little more emotion throughout the book.
I am so happy that I finished it my second time through, though I have to admit that my motivation to do so was increased by 1) the fact that I was reading with a friend and 2) several of my Goodreads friends sing this book's praises.The ultimate strength of this novel is in the characters.
(If not more) The beginning solidified Georgia and Shaun's familial situation and their friendship with Buffy, as well as the entire world they were living in and the blogging atmosphere.
It was the middle that was rough going and it makes me nervous to start the second Newsflesh book--will it be a blog slog again?
When I buy a book on the understanding it's about zombies, I do actually expect to, you know, experience them.
I'm not saying I expected it, or really that the book would have been better with some sex scenes but Grant avoided them to obviously, going as far as the categorically state both Georgia and Shaun are celibate with such abruptness my 'icky sex' radar went through the damn roof.
I get it, it's a dangerous place to live (judging by the lack of zombie action, it's not really, but I'll pretend to go along with Mira anyway).
Since the virus is present in everyone’s system, when anyone dies, whether it’s from zombie bite or natural causes, they will turn into one of the undead cannibals.
Large gatherings of people rarely occur, everyone’s homes and cars are fortresses equipped with high tech screening equipment and huge areas (like Alaska) have been given up as zones too hazardous to enter without special permits and training.Georgia Mason and her brother Shaun are part of the new generation of bloggers.
Georgia has an eye condition due to the zombie virus present in her system, and there are about 1236 instances of security guys demanding that she take off her prescription sunglasses and the problems it causes.
and it wasn't until zombie month 2011 that i managed to see for my damn self.and for me, it was good but i have no choice but to rate it in terms of the other zombie books i have read thus far.
the books i found particularly great were more tricksy in the way they used the zombies.
all i know is that i liked this book, and even though i had to write some damn paper in the middle of it, which made my house look like this for a week or so:
and no, i don't need to read incensed reactions to hyper-vigilant security protocols every single time that a security protocol happens.
i am probably going to sound like an old man here (what's new), but the lessons in this novel actually are pretty important.
the whole novel is an obvious parallel for what is happening in the States RIGHT NOW.
people should know what exactly is happening, and they should be pissed off and angry.
nowadays i just want to make sure i do the right thing on a daily basis - if i can say i've accomplished that, i've had a good day.
Looks like I'm going to have to add this book to the list I call 'Popular books I can't appreciate' along with novels like The Lord of the Rings trilogy and Magic Bites. To all those goodreads members who loved this book - I tried, I swear I did. I finished a book that failed to grab my interest one bit right up to the last page, I have never forced myself to read 571 pages of a book that felt like wading through sludge. Perhaps I am not intelligent enough for this story, but whatever the reaso
In fact, the book wasn't largely dedicated to flesh-eating and zombie moans, it was dedicated to something which I am very interested in and should have been what sold the book to me: politics.I am a self-confessed politics nerd, I have been for a long time - probably ever since I was eleven reading Orwell's 1984 and discovering for the first time how politics could be used to create one hell of a fictional story.
I am very surprised that I finished the book at all.I think I was waiting for a great pivotal change to occur about half way through - I've read several reviews saying that the pace picks up in the second half.
If I would have to choose a single word to describe each of them, Georgia would be truth, Shaun would be adventure, and Buffy would be emotion.
All three of them are weird in their own way, but they are also amazing persons.It is with great joy that I report that the youth of America aren’t actually riddled with ennui and apathy; that the truth hasn’t been fully forsaken for the merely entertaining; that there’s a place in this world for reporting the facts as accurately and concisely as possible and allowing people to draw their own conclusions.
but just this last time..Feed (and the entire Newsflesh Trilogy) made the list for..Best Badass Zombie Books...http://badassbookreviews.com/the-best...Ok...
go tohttps://www.facebook.com/newsflesh/ap...Update- 5/23/11- I did say I would pre-order the next book, and I did.
Because I don't like big words, suck at grammar, and frankly, I just want everyone to trust me when I say "read the book" without explanation.
Nevertheless, I know that I must put forth more effort than begging you to read this book.Mira Grant aka Seanan McGuire created a world that sucked me in every minute I was reading it.
Final rating: 5/5 starsFinal rating - for the whole series: 5/5 stars Sooooo....ever heard of Zombie reporters?No? Well, meet: Georgia Mason and Shaun Mason~ from After the end times! Now seriously. It is one of the rare books where you actually have two siblings for main characters who aren't blood related at all. I usually find many books with a whiny female who is sad about her life, she is boring or she is just so idiotic. This isn't the case, here we have strong main characters Shaun and Ge
This isn't the case, here we have strong main characters Shaun and George (Georgia), who are bloggers after the world officially ended 2014.
“Our story opens where countless stories have ended in the last twenty-six years: with an idiot -- in this case, my brother, Shaun -- deciding it would be a good idea to go out and poke a zombie with a stick to see what happens.”  And the first two parts focused a lot on politics and senator's campaign.
At the beginning, i didn't like Georgia much, after a while i started to like her, but not as much as i love Shaun.
No offense meant to geeks - I'm one too.2) I'd also assume that she writes and/or reads a lot of fanfic.
Again, no offense meant to those who enjoy reading or writing fanfic - if you like it, go for it - but I personally don't care for the stuff.
This book strikes me as the product of a fanfic writer who learned to structure a novel well enough to be published.3) Plenty of style and editing errors show through, though.
Going to artsy college is weird.The school reading I’m used to is, like, white dudes with sharp writing styles from the mid-twentieth century.
Or white dudes with clunky writing styles from the nineteenth century.
Or the occasional lyrical white dude from ancient Greece.There’s some of that at artsy college.
But there’s also this.Yes. I read this book, about bloggers in a zombie apocalypse, for a real, human class.
Because I question it sometimes myself.Unfortunately, I didn’t like blogger zombie book.
Not that many zombies, but I definitely heard about the protagonist’s need for light-blocking sunglasses 599 times.
"The zombies are here, and they’re not going away, but they’re not the story. They were, for one hot, horrible summer at the beginning of the century, but now they’re just another piece of the way things work. They did their part: They changed everything." If you're looking for a simple zombie book, this ain't it. Filled with political intrigue, conspiracies, and a long, tedious political campaign -- amidst a zombie-filled post apocalypse world, of course -- Feed is intelligent, it's intense, a
Filled with political intrigue, conspiracies, and a long, tedious political campaign -- amidst a zombie-filled post apocalypse world, of course -- Feed is intelligent, it's intense, and though some may find the first half a little long winded, it's completely worth it!
As it's a more technical and political novel especially during the first half, this "info-dumping" -- for lack of a better term -- could be a bit dry for some tastes; however, as someone who loves to absorb all this geeky information that essentially makes it one of the most realistic zombie novel I've ever read, I was kept thoroughly engaged in it from the start.
‘Corruption’s been with us a lot longer than the living dead ‘4.5 stars. This was great. Original and gritty, it shifted the centre of the story away from zombies and onto the political campaign of a Senator- a presidential candidate. It was an approach I haven’t seen developed before in terms of post outbreak stories. I’ve read some about how society survives years after a zombie infection, but not about the survival of technology and nation wide politics. An excellent addition to my zombie shelf!
a zombie apocalypse so well written it could be real.still one of the best books i've read, when it comes to zombies.
But the truth is, the zombies are merely the stimulus behind the really scary stuff in this book: human complacency and fear, the mass marketing of lies, and the biggest freak show of them all – the republican primary.
They bring to mind the best of the hero reporters, who may have been a bit devious, but always got the truth and gave it freely to the public.This book has elements of horror, hard sci-fi, political satire, conspiracy, and it even takes a quick turn into whodunit territory (I'll take Colonel Mustard in the gore soaked barn with a zombie pony...).
4.5 stars - I am used by now to read books that are great amazing in the beginning, ok by the middle, and surprise the hell out of me all through the ending. Feed is that kind of book and even more.I loved how it started (with such a great adventure), and I loved that feeling I got through the story, like I was part of it, finding more and more information about the world, the virus, the people involved. Yes, at some point it got to be a bit slow, but it was still full of useful information and
Feed is that kind of book and even more.I loved how it started (with such a great adventure), and I loved that feeling I got through the story, like I was part of it, finding more and more information about the world, the virus, the people involved.
There are zombies, and there is this virus transforming people into zombies when they die or get bitten/infected, but the story is more about these 3 characters - Georgia, Shaun, Buffy - and their blogging passion and their need to find the truth (all kind of truths).The 3 of them were friends, working together in a blog network, and they were so happy to get involved in the greatest adventure of their life, being selected in the position of "pet bloggers" for Senator Ryman's presidential campaign.
You live, you die, and then you come back to life, get up, and shamble around trying to eat your former friends and loved ones. That's the way it is for everyone. This book actually made me almost cry. That is truly a feat because I don't even usually get close to tears unless I'm cutting onions. And, yet I only gave it a three star rating because I would say I didn't care for the main story too much, but fell in love with the relationship between the main characters. So, I figured it deserved
So, I figured it deserved a middle rating for my love/hate relationship with this book.This story is set 20 years after the zombie apocalypse through the eyes of three 20-something bloggers.
It isn't safe to be around a group of people anymore.Our bloggers are Georgia - our main narrator, Shaun - her brother and bff, and Buffy - their friend and colleague.
I almost DNFed the book a couple of times because of it.But, I didn't DNF because of the relationship between Georgia and Shaun - the brother and sister.
I felt like the relationship between Georgia and Shaun captured the closeness, protectiveness, and friendship that siblings can have.
Do you know what the one I found impossible to believe about this book?Zombies?
No. Sure, they are impossible but no, not that.Hipsters with determination enough to create a top notch news site/blog?
No...That a society wouldn't just lose their collective minds when their dead friends and loved ones got up and tried to eat them, and yet somehow kept it together enough to create amazing tech to help them survive?
When in 2015 I'm amazed most people can keep themselves alive, feed themselves and tie their shoes without the extra trouble of dodging zombies.No. All of that is more plausible than the possibility of the GOP producing an electable, reasonable, presidential candidate with a heart, and only in a short 24 years.That's laughable Mira!
In reality its a book where the zombies hover in the background of a character-rich mystery.
I forgot about the zombies half the time, because it's not a horror book about zombies; it's a drama/thriller with zombies in the world.Not violent, you don't get many descriptions of the walking dead or graphic death scenes.
A lot of it is heard about after the fact when relayed to the reader, and most of the deaths aren't actually zombie based, but zombie-virus tainted.
The book is broken into editorials and pieces from the news cast; I skimmed a couple of them, but a few made me think.Zombie-lite but intriguing story.
This one definitely rates up there among the top, achieving the goal of situating an interesting story in a post-zombie apocalypse world.The result in this case is a sort of genre mash-up of zombie survival with political thriller, and it works wonderfully.
The only reason it took me so long to read it was that I listened to Feed as an audiobook.
The last 20% of the book in particular is edge-of-your-seat listening.One thing I particularly liked about this book was the relationship between siblings Georgia and Shaun Mason.
Definitely a book worth reading if you like the genre.
(hide spoiler)]Yet, despite its flaws, I loved this book.
Not quite enough to give it five stars, but definitely enough to look very much forward to reading Deadline (which arrived today from Amazon) and to be more than a little devastated by the ending Mira Grant left us with.
I’m finding it hard to recommend Feed to a certain type of reader – probably because my experience with political thrillers/zombie books is rather limited.
Their brother-sister connection is definitely unique (view spoiler)[and I’m finding it really hard to imagine how the next book will work without it.
In Grant’s world, every human being is infected with the virus that causes zombiefication upon death, so the threat of a new outbreak is constant — every time someone has a heart attack or a bad car accident, their bodies have to be dealt with very quickly, or else.
See, in this world, during the zombie apocalypse, the mainstream media proved it couldn’t be trusted.
The fact that it takes place during the zombie apocalypse is irrelevant; it could be taking place during an outbreak of weaponized ebola.
It is definitely not your typical zombie story with sleazy action sequences and creepy cliches, but a wonderful mix of zombies, blogging, and politics.The book takes place after the Rising of 2014, in which the cure to the common cold and the cure to cancer combined to form a virus that raised the dead.
Feed has everything: strong world-building, convincing characters, shocking scandal, and a wild story that will hook you in and never let you go.
I’m so glad that Grant wasn’t like ‘LOOK HOW ORIGINAL THIS TOMBOY CHARACTER WHO DOESN’T LIKE FASHIONABLE CLOTHES AND DOESN’T UNDERSTAND BOYS IS’ all the time, because in a lot of dystopian novels (*cough* Mockingjay *cough*) this happens and it’s so off-putting and amazing characters (*cough* Mockingjay *cough*) are ruined by this.Even though I didn’t have much in common with George and didn’t relate to her as much as I have narrators in other books I’ve read… I appreciated that it was her telling the story because in hindsight (which, of course, is 20:20) I don’t think this book would have worked if it hadn’t been told from how she saw it from behind her aviators.
I kept passing this book by partly because I am not a fan of zombie books and partly because that title is horrible.
Well it turns out all I was doing was missing out on a really good book!
Yes there are zombies in it but really they are just the back story.
The scientific parts are obviously fiction but they are convincingly written.
The characters are also well written and I find I am still thinking of them after the book is finished which is always a sign of a good book.
It's a good way to develop interest, but the plot actually focuses on an adopted brother-sister news team, Georgia and Shaun Mason.
I thought Grant did a great job of projecting technology into the future without becoming particularly silly about it (no flying cars here); instead, we have micro-dot cameras, ear-cuff phones and instant video feeds.
Grant does an admirable job of developing an extremely close relationship between the brother and sister.
Some people might object to the rather "emotionless" tones of the narration, but I feel Grant did well, with a tone that is quite true to Georgia's character.I enjoyed the pace, and the building of suspense as zombie attacks become more and more directed.
This novel took a different take regarding zombies, and honestly it proved more believable than most.
I'll be honest and say I didn't realize that I was looking for a cheap zombie-apocalpyse themed novel, but my opinion of the novel changed as I read on.
Not only did the author further developed the diversity of the novel, but it made me stop and think if the death was necessary in the first place.
I didn't really expect to feel much for a character's death in this novel, but I realized how much I've learned to love some of them.
Slow morbid death. — A Feed by Mira Grant Book Review I’m behind from my yearlong challenge, the quantity challenge which sponsored by Goodreads, for the past two months. It’s like I’m working twenty-four seven in the outside world without knowing that I’m lying on my bed without doing something, idle for hours and it’s becoming my favourite habit. Well, Feed, Feed is another issue. I read slowly; the book’s pacing was slow; exhausted from a week long travel. In the end, I finished the book for
I mean them, those people who hid from the darkness of fear.Feed, written by Seanan McGuire under her pen name Mira Grant, is the first instalment of Newsflesh Trilogy and published widely by Orbit Books.
It’s a matter of faith and let Georgia finish her story.Feed is one of my most challenging books to read.
Fortunately, the whole zombie bonanza and bullet proof vests were another illusion made by Mira Grant that could be possibly real in the near future.Another problem I encountered was the long chapters, the never ending sentences, the infinite words and I called these chapters as Georgia’s very observant mind.
But it’s still corrupt and not-so-shockingly zombies aren't always the biggest danger.Feed follows bloggers George (Georgia) and her brother Shaun along with their expert team as they report on the news and various goings-on in their blogs and live feeds.
What follows is often unexpected and sometimes a wee bit tedious if you’re not a fan of the ins and outs of blogging, politics and corruption BUT the characters truly made it worth reading.
It’s rough and it’s heartbreaking and that’s all I’m going to say.This audio version was read by Paula Christensen and Jesse Bernstein.
