https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10104532-babette-s-feast
"Babetina gozba" je pravo malo remek-delo.Život autorke ove novele, Karen Bliksen, priča je za sebe.
Njena dela su doživela brojne ekranizacije, čak je i jedan asteroid nazvan po njoj :) Ali, ona je sebe najradije nazivala pripovedačem, i kako nam je to preneo u odličnom Pogovoru prevodilac Radoš Kosović, sebe je često poredila sa Šeherezadom.Radnja "Babetine gozbe" odigrava se u 19.veku, na samom severu Norveške, i pored naslovne junakinje Babet, njene dve gazdarice, sestara Martine i Filipe, glavni junaci ove nadasve simaptične novele su i stanovnici malog gradića po imenu Berlevog.
U isto vreme je odlično dočarana atmosfera malog gradića i mentalitet njegovih stanovnika.Ocena: 5+
Best known for her award winning memoir Out of Africa, Karen Blixen also wrote several other works. In addition to being a farmer/rancher/adventurer, she was, in fact, a very good writer, and that is evident in this short work, Babette's Feast. It's the story of a French woman, exiled during the political upheaval in her country, who seeks asylum in a small Norwegian village with two pious sisters. But Babette has a secret, and when good fortune smiles upon her, she uses her secret to repay the sisters who took her in.
3.5/Realmente tengo muy pocas palabras hacia este cuento/relato. Es bonito, suave, sin ningún aspaviento, y con un final un tanto peculiar. Sí, algo así.
This is an astonishingly good story, there is an awful lot packed into a small space. What I enjoyed most about this story is the sustained irony, the way that familiar things are stood on their heads, and how well the writer plays variations on a theme.A great deal of this story's effect depends on familiarity with some once well-known Christian themes and images, which may make it less accessible for some.
This was a short novella about a young woman Babette who finds shelter from the civil war in France with two sisters. She stays for many years, cooking the bland food the expect but than asks a favor. She wants to prepare a French feast for the women and their guests on their Father's birthday.Enjoyed this very much. There is some subtle humor and even a bit of a mystery. Who really is this mysterious Babette? Why at her dinner do the guests find themselves changing? Quite a good story from an author I have long wanted to read.
There is no possible excuse for not being able to find time to read this book.
Not only does it deal with culinary art, and it is an art, it also deals with how people of different cultures view and judge each other.
They showed Babette how to prepare a split cod and an ale-and-bread soup; during the demonstration the Frenchwoman's face became absolutely expressionless.
But within a week Babette cooked a split cod and an ale-and-bread soup as well as anybody born and bred in Berlevvaag.
I very much liked this book, but it was way, way, way too short.
فلش بک - یک دهه پیشکریسمس بود و روز جشن، اعضای کلیسا در چنین روزی سنگ هم از آسمان میافتاد خود را به کلیسا میرساندند تا در مراسم شرکت کنند.
اندکی پیش از شروع جشن در حیاط ایستاده بودم و بیرون را نگاه میکردم.
چند قدم مانده بود وارد کلیسا شود که پیرمردی فرتوت و خمیده از زن درخواست مقدار اندکی پول به عنوان عیدی تولد مسیح کرد و زن با تحکم و صدایی بلند گفت: "من به جای اینکه پولم رو بدم امثال تو، میبخشم به کلیسا".
این را گفت و وارد شد.
لوقا 23: 33 و 34 هدفم از این پاراگراف پیش کشیدن موضوعات کلامی یا تعریف از مسیحیت و توضیحِ چیستی فیض نیست، بلکه می‌خواهم برگردم به پاراگراف نخست و بپرسم چرا کلیسا دیگر ساطع کننده‌ی فیض نیست؟ چرا در بهترین حالت خود نسخه‌ی به‌روز شده‌ی فریسیان زمان عیسی هستیم؟یک روز زنی تن‌فروش در وضعیتی اسفناک، بی‌خانمان و بیمار، در حالی که از خریدن غذا برای دختر خردسالش عاجز بود با حالتی گریان پیش من آمد و گفت که دختر دوساله‌اش را برای استفاده‌ی جنسی به گروهی از مدان فروخته است.
Still as mystifying as when I first read it 15 years ago, but a much better read this time around because I've had those last 15 years to explore obsecure cuisines and cooking methods from around the world and learn their histories and origins. With that background, I now have a better appreciation of Babette's feast, which was her gift and sacrifice.The movie is good too btw.
Martine and Philippa are austere, elderly sisters who still retain traces of their former ravishing beauty.
Babette is their unassuming French maid who has won a windfall in the lottery.
How ironic that the sisters initially assumed they needed to give Babette cooking instructions, and how obediently she always stuck to the limit they set.
Babette is far more than the person the others think she is.
(Get the sisters' vast understatement, 'It was quite a nice dinner, Babette.')Maybe stories such as this is what it will take to impress some truths on some readers.
Un pranzo venuto proprio con tutti i crismi. Non pensavo che un racconto tanto breve mi sarebbe piaciuto così. Nonostante la diffidenza iniziale degli ospiti Babette ha regalato loro un pasto fenomenale che ha reso l’atmosfera magica come non lo era ormai da tempo. Un lavoretto coi fiocchi da parte di Babette e lo stesso dicasi per l’autrice. Mi è persino venuta voglia di vedere il film ^^
One day, a bedraggled French woman called Babette arrives on their doorstep with a letter from one of the women's former suitors.
The letter details Babette's escape from France during an uprising and asks the sisters to extend kindness to her.
They train Babette to keep them in the simple lifestyle they prefer, including how to prepare simple foods like soup and haddock.After many years, Babette wins 10 000 Francs in the French Lottery.
The sisters reluctantly agree, though as the day approaches, they wonder if they have made a bargain with the devil, especially when a live turtle is delivered to the kitchen.
Babette then prepares the feast of a lifetime for the members of the tiny church and an important gentleman related to one of them.Opening lines:In Norway there is a fjord–a long narrow arm of the sea between tall mountains–named Berlevaag Fjord.
At the foot of the mountains the small town of Berlevaag looks like a child's toy-town of little wooden pieces painted gray, yellow, pink and many other colors.QuotationsPage 2:In the Loewenhielm family there existed a legend to the effect that long ago a gentleman of the name had married a Huldre, a female mountain spirit of Norway, who is so fair that the air round her shines and quivers.
The story and the language (translation) are so quaint.
As it such a short story, it would be difficult to summarise and add detail to the publisher's blurb, without spoilers, so I won't.
What I would say, though, is that this is a book that I could read several times, and learn something new each time.
You know how it is when you view a detailed oil painting for the tenth time, and notice something that you've never seen before?
Well, this is the equivalent in book form.Watch out for a lesson in grace.This book is almost guaranteed to be different to anything that you have ever read before.
"Pero había momentos en que le parecía que el mundo no era cuestión moral, sino mística. Se miraba en el espejo, observaba la hilera de condecoraciones de su pecho y suspiraba para sí: "¡Vanidad de vanidades y todo vanidad!"Me ha sorprendido gratamente este relato.
4.5Adorei!! A ambientação e escrita desse livro são fantásticas. O caráter existencial e mágico, beirando o religioso e ao mesmo tempo o folclórico. Adorei! Só achei um pouco demais na parte de religião em algumas partes, mas foi algo que consegui relevar de alguma maneira ((:
u američkom ženskom magazinu "Ladies' Home Journal".Riječ je o vrlo neobičnoj pripovijesti lociranoj u norveškom gradiću Berlevågu, smještenom između visokih planina koje fizički zatvaraju vezu sa svijetom, dok je mjesto duhovno izolirao pastor, osnivač stroge crkvene sekte, čiji su se članovi odrekli svih zemaljskih zadovoljstava.
Isprva se u kući osjećalo nepovjerenje prema strankinji, strah da s njom nije ušla i raskalašenost koja se povezivala s Parizom, ali kad je Francuskinja naučila spravljati jednostavna jela te k tome ispričala gospođicama da je radila u kuhinji jednog starog biskupa koji je bio svetac, sestre su je počele gledati drugim očima.
;)There was an afterword about Blixen's life and work which said she had a troubled life and wrote about situations like the ones she experienced in her life.
This makes sense - a kind of 'venting' story.
And as I'm not interested in that kind of text, it explains my 'meh'-reaction.It also said "it is a parable about the liberation man can get through art from the necessities forced upon him by life" - makes sense, too, even though I didn't get it from the text straight away.
This is a lovely little tale about two elderly sisters living in Norway in the late 19th century, entrenched in their religious, spinsterly lives, and their exiled French cook, who spends her lottery winnings on one fine feast, the likes of which no one in the small town has ever seen before.
I read/listened to it in Danish because Karen Blixen was Danish, but because of her long self-imposed exile in Africa, she mainly wrote in English and then later translated her works into Danish.
In fact, I loved the enchanting, quaint, almost fairy-tale like tone.
Esse livro me surpreendeu.Eu li sinopses que retratavam Babette como uma santa (praticamente), mas, ao ler o livro, entendi um pouco mais as motivações e a personalidade dela.
As irmãs não me cativaram, mas é exatamente por isso que elas são tão reais: a dedicação fervorosa à religião as deixou anestesiadas, e você sente que ela não fizeram nada na vida.
O que ela não sabe é que com isso ela muda a vida de todos naquele vilarejo.
Ela parece que consegue comunicar os próprios sentimentos por meio da comida de forma mágica.A história é bonita e li o livro em uma sentada apenas, já que ele é bem curto.
Um conto que me comoveu desde a primeira leitura, há muito anos. Uma protagonista que é uma artista e uma exilada política está prestes a mudar a vida de uma pequena comunidade luterana num fiorde qualquer da Noruega. O triunfo da arte e da performance sobre a austeridade. Sobretudo, é um conto sobre escolhas que fazemos - e, por consequência, as renúncias que vem à reboque - e sobre fazer o que amamos (ou o que consideramos importantes) por nós mesmos. É um conto belíssimo.
"Può il risultato di tanti lunghi anni di vittorie risolversi in una sconfitta?" Ne avrei fatto volentieri a meno.
Mali biser književnosti.
Philippa koju je Papin podučavao pjevanju mogla je postati pariška zvijezda, da nije poljubila svog učitelja i tako strašno zgriješila i morala biti kažnjena, od sebe same.Babettin dolazak izazvao je mnogobrojne skepse, kako kod sestara tako i kod ostalih stanovnika.
Konačno, Raj treba zaslužiti.Prihvaćanjem Babettine žrtve, sestre dolaze do nepobitnog zaključka – sretan je onaj koji na vrijeme shvati da ima slobodu upravljanja koncima svog života.„Ali ovo nije kraj, Babette!
Ovo je pravi prikaz kako izgleda uzimati Boga zdravo za gotovo, a pritom zaboraviti samo jednu važnu stvar – biti zahvalan.
Babette's FeastBy Isak DinesenThe basic plot: Two aging Norwegian maiden sisters, the daughters of the leader of a puritanical religious sect, take in a French woman who has fallen upon hard times and who turns out to be a marvelous cook.
After many years, she discovers she has won a lottery and spends her entire winnings on a fabulous dinner she creates for the sisters and their fellow congregants in gratitude.
She gives everything of herself and, in doing so, transforms the Norwegians, who learn that not only virtue and self-denial but pleasure and beauty can show the path to grace.
I used to love Isak Dineson but haven't read anything of hers in something like fifteen years or more, and obviously my reading tastes have changed during that time because I was left underwhelmed by this one. I definitely remember liking the movie version better.
Ho voluto dare una seconda opportunità a Karen Blixen dopo Ehrengard, ma mi sono annoiata mortalmente, malgrado si trattasse di un racconto breve, in cui il contrasto tra puritanesimo e la sensualità legata al cibo sembra esplodere in banchetto pantagruelico che non viene quasi neanche apprezzato da Martina, Filippa e i sostenitori del decano.
L'unico che sembra trarne piacere è il generale Loewenhielm, colui che ha avuto la "fortuna" in gioventù di essere rifiutato da Martina, e quindi di aver potuto continuare a godersi la vita, al contrario delle due figlie del decano.
Ressenya completa ací: http://www.luckybuke.com/2017/12/el-f...Aquesta venia recomanadíssima per Laura. El festí de Babette és una faula perfecta per llegir en Nadal, baix d’una manta calenteta. En una comunitat puritana i tancada en sí mateixa, una cuinera francesa de passat desconegut els descobreix el que és la gràcia a través d’un banquet molt especial. Li lleve una estrella, perquè estic segura que no he acabat d’entendre tot el que em volia dir l’autora.
Ich hatte mir mehr kulinarisches in dieser Erzählung gewünscht. In der Beschreibung wird erwähnt dass es sich hauptsächlich um ein französisches Diner handelt, allerdings wird kaum über das Essen geschrieben, da letztendlich etwas ganz anderes im Mittelpunkt steht. Es war eine ganz nette Kurzgeschichte, nur nicht das was ich erwartet hatte.
É um livro tão curto, mas cada pessoa que comentou comigo que leu, disse que o livro era sobre uma coisa diferente. E eu tinha achado outra coisa ainda! Como 50 páginas pode ter tantas variações de interpretação? O mais legal é que todas elas encaixam, fazem sentido.
I'm not an enormous fan of short stories, but I quite liked this one. The writing was lovely and engaging, and I'll certainly be looking to read more by this author.
