https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272536.The_Real_Cool_Killers
Ulysses Galen is shot down in the streets of Harlem and Grave Digger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson are on the case.
The prime suspect is a member of a gang calling themselves The Real Cool Moslems.
Good thing, since one of the girls that runs with the Moslems is his teenaged daughter...It's a crime that Chester Himes isn't more well known than he is.
The writing in The Real Cool Killers is gritty and straight to the point.
Himes's Harlem isn't a nice place to live, that's for sure.
Coffin Ed and Grave Digger Jones are ass-kicking machines and I'd like to see them on another case where they can fully cut loose.
(Updated 3/4/17)Here's the (nearly as cool as the original) cover of the 1975 Signet mass-market I have, 173 pages.My first and and still the best of the three Harlem Cycle novels I've read so far, The Real Cool Killers does a great job capturing the atmosphere and attitudes of late-1950s Harlem (or so I imagine), with main characters "Grave Digger" Jones and "Coffin" Ed Johnson as somewhat exaggerated, larger-than-life versions of badass NYC cops.
For fans of hardboiled/noir-type novels, and for those just looking for a fast-moving tale of the streets with a dose of social commentary for good measure, The Real Cool Killers is a top-notch read.4.5 Stars
If you are intending to read only one of Chester Himes' novels, read A Rage in Harlem.
But once you've read that, read this.
Candidly, the first 75% of The Real Cool Killers is routine, not special, nothing to mention to a friend.
Then -abruptly -it becomes the 5-star read you'd been anticipating.
Trenchant social commentary.
Abominable, ongoing abuse in which many members of the community are complicit.
Not sold yet?Read this spot-on review from my GR friend, Lemar:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This is the 2nd book in Chester Himes's Harlem Cycle and it's just as absurd and insane as his previous masterpiece in the series, A Rage in Harlem, which I loved.
Just like in A Rage In Harlem, the story is so crazy, and the writing so sharp, that it's hard to stop reading.
The super-hard-boiled Harlem detectives, Grave Digger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson, are back on the job again when a big Greek dude gets shot and killed by a fake gun in the middle of a crowded street in Harlem, causing all hell to break loose.
Once again, an entertaining read from the great Chester Himes.
I enjoyed this Crime Noir better than usual, since I have discovered that Crime Noir is not my favorite genre.A white man is at a bar in Harlem looking around.
The white man runs down the street with Sammy in hot pursuit.
By this time two local policemen arrive and run up to the white man who is now dead.
Now there are two dead people lying on the street.During the confusion after the second death, the gang and Sammy run off.
Coffin Ed and his partner Gravedigger Jones, have already confiscated Sammy's gun and they discover that it is only a stage prop and could not have killed the white man.
If you like your hard boiled with a healthy dose of historical racism, this is the novel for you.
Hardly long enough to be called a novel and tightly plotted.
Grave Digger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson are two black NYC police detectives.
When a white pedophile sadistic pervert is "murdered" in Harlem all hell breaks loose.
Jones and Johnson have got to find the killer even while the black body count goes unmourned.
The second in Chester Himes Harlem Cycle has the duo of black cops, Coffin Ed and Gravedigger, are up to their eyes in killings in Harlem.
Lots of shooting, violence of all kinds and police corruption make this a good fast read for those that enjoy these tales.
By a black author but lots of racist comments that are unlikely to pass an editor today.Almost on a par with the 87th Precinct.
4 stars but needs to be read as the late 1950's world, not as today.
This was great, and crazy ahead of its time considering it was written in the late 50s.
This gang of "Real Cool Moslem" toughs (young black men in disguises) probably won't appear in any 21st century literature.
And the "Real Cool Moslems".
PLACE=5: Harlem in 1959.
We do have a double-standard here: this black author tells a story only he can tell and get away with.
A white writer would have been driven out of town.
Then again, a white writer wouldn't have been able, I don't think, to get this experience on paper.
This is a brutal read and it is the very darkest of noir, if that's what you're looking for.
Another good one from Chester Himes. Everything I said in my review of "A Rage In Harlem" holds true for this one. When reading books from a series there's little point to writing the same review over and over - unless something outstanding occurs. That holds especially true for me because I try not to reveal any plot details for concern of in some way dropping a spoiler. I've even read blurbs that I've thought reveal too much. Suffice it to say Himes is a fine writer and I'll be reading more of him.
This is the second novel in the The Harlem Cycle series and it was just as good to read as the first time...gritty and raw and fantastic, and at the end it left me in silent thought.
They're just good.Chester Himes' style is unique and he delivers some fantastic crime fiction...Coffin and Grave Digger are more interesting in every novel.
Chester Himes should be read by all, he sees American life in way that everyone should at least take a glimpse at.
Chester Himes drops his readers right into the mix, Harlem circa 1958.
Some books boast colorful characters, these books are unrivaled in characters that know how to survive in one of the toughest environments ever created.
As he tells a compelling story, Himes gets across the reality that Harlem of this time was a construct of white America, a deliberate ghetto every bit as much as the historic European ghettos built to contain the Jews.
The Real Cool Killers gets into the world of juveniles and, as always, the characters hold up as genuine, never caricatures.
Probably the closest thing to a crime book written by Tex Avery - the eye popping, wolf howling mess explodes in your face like a cheap joke shop cigar.
It's 1950s Harlem and two afroid Frankenstein detectives try to solve why a white man died from a prop pistol gunshot.
Coffin Ed and Grave Digger Jones scare even the toughest Dutch-Irish Eisenhower flatfoot cops and no stone is unturned.
Chester Himes has written the most insane crime novel ever written with his matinee idol looks and you should sell your soul to him or else Coffin Ed and Grave Digger will crush it in their voodoo-scarred claws.
I read this because it's in the Library of the AmericasCrime Novels of the 50s. And I'd read the other four books in that collection. So I bought this. I adore their Crime Novels of the 30s and 40s so much. Then I find out that this is the middle book of a trilogy. What the hell? Anyway it was super fast, which was cool. Different, fun, fly by speed.
This was Chester Himes's second novel to feature his two tougher-than-leather Harlem police detectives, Coffin Ed Johnson and Grave Digger Jones.
His Harlem detective novels were written while he was living in France, on commission for his publisher, and Himes clearly had a lot of fun playing around with stereotypes.
The Real Cool Killers and For Love of Imabelle (which was republished under the title A Rage in Harlem) are larger-than-life depictions of African American life in the '50s and '60s in Harlem.
I didn't care for this. The revealing cityscapes and the Pynchonian lists of objects were the sole appeal. The violence was feral and the characters cold and opaque. The Real Cool Killers is more procedural than noir. The motivations are cynical. One could surmise that the procedural template is upended. I just wanted more. There was likely more context in A Rage in Harlem, but I didn't have access to that one.
Nice twist at the end.
As usual, Chester Himes delivers a gritty, bare-knuckle, double-barrel blast from the streets of 1959 Harlem that takes no prisoners and doesn't leave much standing. Full of atmosphere, character and period slang it's a world only Himes could create. A white man is dead and everyone (including his black detectives Coffin Ed Johnson and Grave Digger Jones) are out to get to the bottom of it before the night is done. Vicious and fast-paced as a speeding squad car. - BH.
Himes was definitely a great writer
By the end, we know there was nothing absurd in the opening scene, but everything happened for a reason.
Reasons tightly entwined with human passions and twists.For me, this is the most fascinating aspect of the novel.I love Chester Himes.
I love his visceral, powerful way to handle his characters, the way he drills reasons and passions inside them.
The action only spans a few hours, but while the investigation (lead by Grave Digger Jones) is tight, with a strong logic leading it, and with strong characters populating it, the parallel thread regarding the kids' gang is not as strong.
I read a lot of books & they encompass various genres except for the soppy,batty romances that the likes of Mills & Boons churn out. So it may be prudent to say that I have a pretty wide perspective although I do have pretty marked tastes.In my all time of reading and enjoying books, James Hadley Chase stood out & the reasons are manifold. I have liked & admired the work of quite a few Authors but after the Great Man, there has been only one who has had that kind of a galvanic ef
‎I read a lot of books & they encompass various genres except for the soppy,batty romances that the likes of Mills & Boons churn out.
So it may be prudent to say that I have a pretty wide perspective although I do have pretty marked tastes.In my all time of reading and enjoying books, James Hadley Chase stood out & the reasons are manifold.
As Chester himself might testily utter - "Grab 'em books soon as ye kin 'fore ye feel sorry fer yeself." GOLD!
Himes has a great style and he uses dialect just enough to give us a sense of setting.Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Johnson have names that sound like a couple of cops that don't mind putting the occasional criminal under the grass -- and they do.
What's interesting is the way the people of Harlem respects these black cops, but still don't trust them.
Gravedigger and Coffin are in a world between the white establishment and the everyday people of Harlem.
The conflict creates the same kind of tension that Marlowe and Spade have with the regular police.You can also give Himes credit for not stereotyping any of the characters black or white.

Hard to get beyond the fever-dream tone, in which every character, major or minor, speaks and behaves as though in the middle of a three-day cocaine jag, wild-eyed, brandishing knives and firing pistols. Chandler suggests seedy goings-on are happening behind innocuous storefronts and suburban hedges; Himes puts them in the middle of 125th Street. The effect is distancing rather than engaging: No one seems to be acting entirely rationally, and the milieu is almost unrecognizable, so we have very little stake in learning who actually killed Galen. And while Himes' prose is, well, spirited, it's not exactly fun.
A little more claustrophobic than "A Rage in Harlem", but just as fun. In his crime books, Himes proves to be the master of controlled chaos. In both books, Himes manages to start multiple storylines and just when you think there are too many threads to make it all come together, he does just that.Great dialogue, characters, and sense of place. The terse writing keeps the momentum moving at a breakneck pace.Gravedigger Jones and Coffin Ed Johnson remain some of the best characters in crime fiction.
Definitely my favorite novel so far that I've read for my Detective Fiction class. First off, I really enjoyed just the mechanics of it--the way it was written, with character dialogue, etc.; the dual narrative; all the twists Himes puts on the genre and how he's often saying two things at once; the characterization (especially how Himes creates an interesting dichotomy by using police as the protagonists in a novel that is also critiquing police). It's also still incredibly relevant, dealing with police brutality, etc. It's sad how little things have changed... Worth a read.
3,5 βασικά! Πολύ πιο καλό απο το "Χαμός στο Χάρλεμ" και "Μπαμπάκι στο Χάρλεμ" που έχω διαβάσει. Με περισσότερη δράση κ πλοκή, μαχαιρώματα, πιστολίδια, η διαμάχη κ το μίσος των μαύρων για τους λευκούς, η εκμετάλλευση των λευκών στους μαύρους. Με ξένισε λίγο που εδώ τον Μακάβριο Εντ, τον μεταφράζει ως ο Φερετράκιας. Κατά τα άλλα διαβάζεται εύκολα, ευχάριστα και διασκεδάζεις ακόμα μια φορά με τις περιπέτειες των δύο αστυνομικών αλλά κ με την αφέλεια μερικών μαυρούληδων που περιγράφει.
If I could make films, I might start with this joint. It is just so brilliant and so radical on so many different levels.
In the novel, second in Himes’ Harlem Detective Series (nine completed novels, one unfinished), the white cops are blatantly racists, the black bad guys (particularly Sheik) respond with their own racial hatred, and any semblance of citizen rights barely exist.
Then there’s the way the cops go about their work; that is, with no regard, zero, for the rights of citizens, with Grave Digger and Coffin Ed as bad as the white cops.
Chester Himes was born in Missouri, and moved to Arkansas and Ohio with his family.
Starting off like a gunshot, this Pynchon-esque comedy of errors lands us in an exploded cartoon version of Harlem enriched with all manner of slapstick, sensationalized, vulgar, jazzed-up, and larger-than-life characters.
The story then shifts into a hyper-realistic slow weaving tale of proto-Blaxploitation of the grandest order, carried along by a deep undercurrent of crazed-cop noir.
The writing is sharp, the dialogue crisp, and the characters fully realized, almost believable, given how beautifully draped they are with their human counterparts' fears, desires, and sacrifices.
