https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121127.Faith_of_the_Fallen
There seems to be a small, devoted group who actually really liked this book, but so far, none of them have been able to give us any clue as to why.At this point, it's less concerning, since Goodkind is just another long-winded, cliche fantasy writer who writes okay adventures, and has a weirdly high opinion of himself:"The books I write are first of all novels, not fantasy, and that is deliberate; I'm really writing books about human beings."(1)"To define me as a fantasy writer is to misunderstand the context of my books by misidentifying their fundamentals."(2)"The stories I'm telling are not fantasy-driven, they're character-driven, and the characters I want to write about could be set in any world.
I know that Goodkind and subtle rarely find themselves in the same sentence with one another, however, as far as Goodkind books go, I feel that this one struck the perfect balance in presenting its message.When I tell people that this is my favorite book in the series, I often get replies of "oh yeah, there's some really awesome battles in that one." But that's not what I like about this book.
Instead of resorting to Deus Ex Machina as he tends to do, Goodkind built up his triumph over the ideals of the Imperial order throughout the entire book to the point where Richard didn't have to hand wave it away.
Tired of Goodkind rehashing who characters are and their past relationships for pages.
Goodkind dives in headfirst into exploration ofsocialism vs.
While I embrace this exploration with Victor Hugo, Goodkind's journey on the subject feels more like five courses of McDonalds rather than (for expample)Hugo's thought provocing five courses of delicacies.
Goodkind dictates his theories like a preacher at a podium.
Victor Hugo can do this: Terry Goodkind should not.
I would only recomend this book if you are reading the series and want to visit your charaters whilst skimming through the muck and mire.
Not sure if I will read the next book.
It takes you on a progressive journey of one individual, Nicci, and how she became the way she was, believing what she believed, and eventually realizing the truth in all of what she had done.
The only thing I felt cheated out of was the fact that Nicci's own journey to find this out was too gradual and her eventual epiphany was nearly anti-climactic and did not include the most important element of "self-sacrifice" to feel her own "self-worth".
I did, however, understand that because it was a gradual journey for her, she came to her own conclusions in the end and didn't need someone else to show her the way.
Bad fantasy novel is bad.*besides* the poorly executed and tedious allegory of his socialism v capitalism setup, the endless rehashing of previous happenings and relationships (yes, exposition is good, but repeating the same explanation 4 times in one book is boring and patience-trying), and nearly dime-store bodice-ripper aspect of everything being the swooning best or evil worst, this is a mediocre effort at best.Oh, and I nearly put out my own eyes at the point where his rip-off of The Fountainhead (don't get me started on Ann Rand and objectivism) went from silly to obnoxious.
Goodkind is clearly a total hack, incapable of setting up a meaningful moral quandary for his characters and not really interested in doing so.
The most charitable interpretation of the persistence of straw men as they occur in the books is that they are the author's honest but mistaken views of his ideological opponents.
So this makes him sound like he drank a little too much Ayn Rand Kool-Aid. But then what's his problem with Jagang?
His personal sexual foibles shouldn't have anything to do with the truth of his greater cause (as indicated in this book by Nicci).In the previous book, I guess this fits, the straw man was democracy.
There's too much good literature to read.According to Mr Goodkind, those of us who have bailed out are ignorant and uneducated.
I should have realized right from the start ("Wizard's First Rule: People are stupid") what kind of fellow Terry Goodkind is.
It isn't that they want to read a good book, what they want is to make sure that you do not.
If you really want to try a Goodkind book, I would recommend that you go to the library and check out the first few, and then trust me that you don't need to read any further.
Read more Terry Goodkind book reviews at Fantasy Literature .
I have SO MANY THOUGHTS.For most of the time reading this book, I was pretty sure I was going to give it three stars.
(I'm thinking particularly of two sequences, one involving Kahlan's half-brother Harold, the other where Kahlan states that she would like to personally kill almost two million men one at a time.)Meanwhile, Nicci and Richard are off learning about Why Communism is Bad and why Equality is a Lie and also There Is No In Between.So here's the big flaw I was talking about.Goodkind is without doubt a staunch Libertarian, devout Capitalist, and student of Objectivism.
It's only that uncertainty that is allowing me to three star this book.Because both Nicci and Richard do grow from their time in the Old World.
Dr. Zhivago, set in the Old World, Oppa Goodkind style.Dr. Richard "Rahl" Zhivago is separated from his beloved, Kahlana Konfessorskaya, and he travels into the depths of the evil Khanate of the Old World, ruled by Emperor Jagang.
CAPITALISM GOOD.It takes about 700 pages for the story to be told.
He wants to save the world from the bad guys, because they are not the good guys.
In 70 pages of non-stop nonsense, Richard achieves what not even a modern army of finest propaganda, television, radio, and psychology could do in a year.
3.0 stars. Probably my favorite book in the series apart from Wizard's First Rule. Some think Goodkind got too preachy in this book and I can see that, but I found myself enjoying his passion for the material. Richard's ordeal (physical, emotional and spiritual) at the hands of the Order and his ultimate triumph was handled well and I think this book contained the best writing (though still not great) of the entire series.
Seeing this statue of the nobility of man, the people have a huge change of heart.I'm glossing over a lot admittidly, but it's not my place to cover everything.From this book on, Goodkind gets more preachy, redundant, and annoying.In an interview, he said that people who bash his work are like little boys who throw rocks through windows, breaking what they do not understand.
Telling a story does not have to be done with repetitious preaching, over the top characters, and implausible climaxes.Terry is also unhappy that hsi work is labeled fantasy, since it's the philosophy that counts.
It would certainly be best if you read the books before this in the series, but you could probably get a lot out of it even without all the background the previous books provide.I've enjoyed the series though there is brutal violence in many books, somehow it doesn't take away from my love of the story.
The violence is never superfluous, it is used to make the bad guys truly evil.
Some of the books have been wrapped up rather conveniently and the author does tend to be far too long-winded, but having said all that I would still recommend the series.
As a fan of the Sword of Truth Series from the beginning, I was very disappointed in Faith of the Fallen.
To preface my take on the book, I must point out that Terry Goodkind is a follower of the late Ayn Rand and subscribes to her objectivist philosophy.For the uninitiated Ayn Rand and her pro-business objectivist views gave birth to the modern conservative movement currently synonymous with todays Republican Party.
Goodkind paints workers as shiftless layabouts that want free handouts without working.Unions are evil oppressive organizations that will have people thrown in prison if they work too hard.It is absolutely laughable.
This book takes place near the middle/end of the series and sets up what is hopefully the downfall of the order.
Goodkind's characters are well fleshed out and realistic people, striving for what they believe in.
Jagang is not just another evil overlord foolishly trying to take over the world but a calculated and intelligent man who believes he is doing the people a service.
This sets up a major clash in opinion, who is right, who is wrong as Goodkind tells the wonderful tale of a battle between two sides that believe the Creator has sided with them.
There is merit in paying homage to a classic story in a modern novel, but when the homage is so blatant that it leaves nothing to the imagination, the reader is left with a wontonly masturbatory book.
This novel is such a blatant rework of atlas shrugged that its only purpose seems to be to amuse the author.
I've read atlas shrugged.
I thought it pedantic and cumbersome.
This book is pedantic, cumbersome, and unoriginal.
I've read up to this point because Goodkind writes intriguing cliffhangers that, even when the characters and superfluous descriptors annoy you, leave you wanting just a bit more.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
Goodkind at his Ayn Rand-ian worst. If you weren't getting it from the already copious hints that Goodkind has been dropping the whole series, he'll make his black-white morality abundantly clear. This is the book where I finally dropped the series, though I should have about three books earlier when it became clear where it was going.
We still have the POVs of other characters but for the most part, they are directly linked to the main plot of the book: the Midland forces trying to outfox the Order and Richard trying to get out of Nicci’s clutches.
For too long, in the series, there have been parts that I wished I could skip because they were keeping me from the parts that I was really interested in (those usually revolved around Kahlan and Richard) But this time, it was hard for me to put the book down and close to the end I ended up reading till 4 in the morning and then I was so wound up that I couldn’t sleep for quite sometime.
I enjoyed the first book of this series very much, largely because it contained an entire story, which I wasn’t used to in High Fantasy.
My main issue is with the treatment of women in this series.There are tons of “strong” women in this series: the Sisters of the Light, the Mord Sith, the Confessors, but all of them are weak and stupid when compared to Richard Rahl.
And the Mother Confessor and wife of Richard, Kahlan,…well she gets to be raped and she enjoys it.Yupp.And that’s the point I decided I could not take any more of this shit.Thinking about it I get so filled with rage that I can’t come up with a coherent argument.
Goodkind gives up on writing a novel and instead writes a bunch of preachy Objectivist propaganda against political straw men that a child could see through.Basically, this book can be summed up as "Richard Rahl teaches commies about capitalism." The plot deviates seriously from the previous books in that it doesn't really focus on Richard and Co trying to solve the magical problem of the week.
Instead, you get to spend most of this book reading about Richard carving stuff (because carving is like swordplay so the Sword of Truth makes him an Awesome Artist) and starting his own small business in the heart of the Imperial Order.

Of course Richard uses magic to pull it off it's just not that apparent but come on, he has NEVER carved out of marble before and was able to do a beautiful piece...never taught..and I know it takes many years to be a good marble sculpter but of course he pulls it off.
Khalan shows herself a badass warrior, Richard has a talent for carving, I can see why the writer continues on with these two, so much going on with them.
Don't know when I will pick up the next book.
The "Atlas Shrugged" of high fantasy well serves its escapist raison d'être. It is a fun, distracting page turner written in Goodkind's usual flowing style offering just enough carrots to keep you going. Some may frown at the obvious Randian politics, but the good vs evil in the individual vs the state motif is not to be missed. May Richard and Kahlan live on. I eagerly await the stories of their son to come and the final defeat of the Imperial Order. But please, Terry, provide a map of the old world. One of the series best!.
Other than the first book this might have been my favorite in the series. There was no downtime, no boring antidotes about a plot line that didn't matter. This author does tend to get preachy and go a bit on in the war scenes and independence for all rants, but by now I'm used to them and they were few in this book. Loved how we got equal doses of Kahlan and Richard.
*dismissive wanking motion*
This book is a message of hope and strength, if you are willing to see it as that (meaning you have to overcome your political stubbornness and read with an open mind).I'm not going to give away any spoilers about the end of the entire 11-book series, but let's just say Goodkind takes care of everything by the conclusion.
If you were offended by the politics and philosophy weaved into this book, don't bother reading the rest of this excellent series, or you will only grow more angry (especially from books 8 and 11).
This is supposedly the side of good, torturing someone for a day before finally killing him, simply for petty vengeance.Conveniently, because this just happened to be the guy who was involved with Richard and Nicci, this choice is vindicated because it leads to the information necessary to set up the usual "let's wrap everything up in a nice bow in 10 pages at the end" anticlimax.The usual criticisms continue to apply.
He happened to arrive in this specific city, on this very particular street, at the EXACT time that this man's driver was abandoning him (more on the "I can only do what's in my exact job description" nonsense later).Yes, Richard, you worked hard, but that opportunity was not presented to literally anyone else on the planet.
Много силно произведение, в което красивата творба на един човек побеждава всеобщата посредственост. Затова е фентъзи. Българската художествена литература е показала, че у нас става обратното!пет звезди за Faith of the Fallen!
This is justified by what he experienced in the last book and his disillusionment with his own methods of trying to beat the Imperial Order.Faith of the Fallen takes a sharp left turn (no pun intended) at communism and doesn't look back.
Her fate at the end of the book is justified, especially by her reaction to what Richard does.The elapsed time in Faith of the Fallen is greater than many of the other books.
Kahlan manages to get to the Old World--to the heart of the Imperial Order, in fact--rather quickly: just in time for the climax.This book rewards you for actually reading the first five.
• Nicci stops by and “borrows” Richard because reasons… • Kahlan goes full Mother Confessor badass – I liked her and Cara together, actually!
• Richard makes one heck of a statue that would make Michelangelo and Bernini cry… Because Richard can do anything… Obviously...This book, I think wasn’t as much about Kahlan and Richard as it was about Nicci.
And one last thing; I don’t mind books with political/philosophical/ideological themes but I don’t believe in anything being black or white.
This book was all black or white and it had no nuances when dealing with quite complex questions/issues.
