https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/224787.Fantastic_Night_Other_Stories
Ένα ακόμη μικρό λογοτεχνικό διαμάντι από τον Στέφαν Τσβάιχ.
Ο εκφυλισμός του θα συνεχιστεί μέχρι που ένα τυχαίο γεγονός, ένα μικρό παιχνίδι συναλλαγής, θα τον κάνει να αναθεωρήσει το ίδιο του το είναι και να ζήσει μια φανταστική νύχτα… Ο Τσβάιχ βαδίζοντας με προσοχή μέσα στα μονοπάτια της ψυχολογίας και της ψυχανάλυσης, φτάνει σε βάθος στην ψυχή του νεαρού βαρόνου απογυμνώνοντας τον και περνώντας σε μια αντικειμενική εκτίμηση της ψυχολογικής του κατάστασης, εκθέτει τις σκέψεις, τις φοβίες και τις ανασφάλειες ενός ανθρώπου που νόμιζε πως ζούσε αγνοώντας κάθε τι που βρισκόταν έξω από τον μικρόκοσμο του..
--Fantastic Night--Forgotten Dreams--A Summer Novella--The Governess--Compulsion--Twenty-Four Hours in the Life of a Woman--Incident on Lake Geneva--Mendel the Bibliophile--The Debt Paid Late--Moonbeam Alley--Letter from an Unknown WomanDate of First Publication in German
In his work there’s a pervasive melancholy that at times seems almost fatalistic, but at the same time there’s a focus on deep human contact through intermediate means like letters, books, pictures, as if one’s real life were concentrated in these things and through these means is able to literally transcend death.I will not give any details about the particular stories in this collection, because the pleasure’s in the details, and I wouldn’t want to deny anyone those firsthand pleasures.But I will mention that even Max Ophuls' great movie can not compare to Zweig’s original story, though it’s probably more the screenwriters’ faults than Ophuls’.
Well, Stefan Zweig is becoming a favorite quite rapidly.
These stories are excellent, so modern in some ways in their sensibility, yet definitely of their time (first half of the twentieth century) and the place Zweig knew so well (Austria).
Their actions so well described that I either yearn to meet them or would run the opposite way if I knew they were coming.
Zweig's ability to write with the voice of a woman in the first mentioned story amazed me as did the varying tones of the story itself.
I purchased Fantastic Night as part of Oxfam's wonderful 2016 Scorching Summer Reads campaign.
I was already familiar with Zweig's work, and remember how enraptured I was when reading the excellent The Post Office Girl some years ago.
Fantastic Night provides a mixture of novellas and short stories, many of which I hadn't come across before.As with all of the Pushkin Press titles which I have had the pleasure of reading thus far, the translation here is seamless.
Zweig is a masterfully perceptive author, and there was such a difference to every one of the stories here.
Fantastic Night is a real joy to read.
Letter From An Unknown Woman (4.5 stars)In a certain perspective this is a bit disturbing.
The Fowler Snared (3 stars)Tyra Bank's mother once told her, "Kick the runway before it kicks you off." The elderly gentleman in this story must have thought in his moment of pleasure that all things last forever, or at least only up to the moment his game finally tires him out.
This is a bitter story of a man failing to remove his heart from a game where he is never meant to play in.
The Invisible Collection (4.5 stars)Would you ever consider overlooking wrong conduct to not make somehow unhappy?
Daha iyi bir insan olduğumu iddia edecek cesaretim yok elbette ama daha mutlu bir insan olduğumu biliyorum,çünkü o buz gibi donuk hayatım için yeni bir anlam buldum,yaşamın kendisinden başka bir sözcükle açıklayamayacağım bir anlam.
Ait olduğum kesimin normlarını ve kalıplarını boş bulduğum için artık ne kendimden ne de başkalarından utanıyorum.
Onur,suç,günah gibi kavramlar bir anda soğuk metalsi bir tını kazandı,bunları dehşete kapılmadan telaffuz edemiyorum artık.
O gece ilk kez öylesine büyülenmişçesine hissettiğim o güçten beslenerek yaşıyorum.
Beni nereye sürüklediğini sorgulamıyorum : Belki başkalarının günah diye adlandırdığı bir başka uçuruma ,belki de yüceliklere sürükleyecek.
Çünkü sadece kendi kaderini bir gizem olarak yaşayabilenlerin gerçek anlamda yaşadıklarına inanıyorum.
Se encuentra con una noche que cambia si vida, los sentimientos se enaltecen, su interior se agita.
Zweig es un maestro en traducir el interior de nuestras mentes, capta los sentimientos y los refleja en sus textos.
Nos hace ver como pequeños sucesos en la vida pueden trastornar todo su futuro, el manejo de detalles en las emociones, en los miedos y su relación en las acciones de sus personajes."El que una vez se haya encontrado a si mismo, no puede ya perder nada.
Y el que una vez haya comprendido al hombre que lleva adentro, comprenderá a todos los hombre."Stefan Zweig
But Zweig's theme is roughly the same in all of them and is reminiscent of the other Zweig I've read, Beware of Pity.
Access your emotions!
Whatever these emotions actually are, one who is able to feel, to live in a world governed by some strong feeling, is to be envied.
To feel is to access a true perspective on the world.
A subsidiary theme is the act of knowing and recognising others, which depends on seeing what they feel, if not sharing it.
"Όποιος έχει βρει τον εαυτό του, δεν μπορεί να χάσει τίποτα πια στον κόσμο αυτόν. Και όποιος έχει κατανοήσει τον άνθρωπο μέσα του, αυτός κατανοεί και όλους τους ανθρώπους". Τιτανομέγιστος Τσβάιχ. Τα 5 αστέρια είναι λίγα.
4,5
حالما يجد الإنساننفسه فليس هناك ما يمكن أن يخسره في هذا العالم. وحالما يفهم الإنسانية في نفسه، سوف يفهم جميع البشر…رائعة بكل المقاييس.
I was so occupied by the story `Fantastic night' that I hardly heard the train doors open; I dashed outside in the last moment, still holding the book open.
The secret is only revealed at the end, thus, like in `fantastic Night' once you start the story it is hard to let go of it.
Zweig's poetic end is exhilarating.
`The invisible collection' is a story in which the point is only revealed at the end.
Incredible story; it is amazing how Zweig managed to hide some facts until the very end.
I felt sorry for the old honorable man in this story.
Cuando leo a Zweig, me da la impresión de estar leyendo a un escritor preocupado por el bien de la humanidad, un escritor humano cuyos escritos todavía perduran pese a los años que han transcurrido.Tal vez los cuentos de ’Noche fantástica’ no sean los mejores que escribió Zweig (‘Amok’ o ‘La mujer y el paisaje’, contienen verdaderas obras maestras), pero aun así no decepcionan y resultan una lectura que no deja indiferente.Estos son los siete relatos recopilados en ’Noche fantástica’:Primavera en el Prater (1900), en el que la protagonista, amante de diversos nobles, decide pasar una tarde de primavera paseando por el Prater, vestida con una ropa sencilla.En la nieve (1901) nos cuenta cómo en la Edad Media una comunidad judía ha de huir de los Flagelantes, que les están dando caza.Escarlatina (1908), uno de los relatos más largo del libro, tiene como protagonista a un joven estudiante de medicina que acaba de llegar a Viena.
These 5 stories, from short -c.10 pages - to a novella-length - c.50 pages, are as good as the art of the short story can get; they capture intense & disparate moments of human experience so elegantly & so sensitively, that I wondered how Stefan Zweig's name isn't mentioned in the same breath as Somerset Maughan or D.H.Lawrence, for example, who were both contemporary practitioners of the sensual & poignant short story.
These translations are wonderfully rendered by Pushkin Presses team of linguists, not for a moment suggesting that they were written in anything but the English which flows mellifluously through the Vienna of the years straddling the ominous opening of the cataclysmic - for the Austrio-Hungarian Empire & Zweig himself!
Tooke a while to get into, not least of all because I only picked it up because of Wes Anderson's declared influence, particularly when he was making The Grand Budapest Hotel.
Truth be told, outside of the location, and the framing device of many of these stories being written as if by characters relaying stories to other characters, there seems little comparison between Anderson's most knockabout movie and the reserved yet emotionally hard-hitting stories here.
Yet they all contain a central crystal of universal truth and are marked by a quiet dignity.
One of the more compelling collection of short stories, particularly once past Fantastic Night, the weakest link here another book's opener.
Part two of my investigation of whether or not Stefan Zweig is as wonderful as I suspect has yielded the conclusion that he certainly is.
I have re-read "The Invisible Collection" multiple times and forced it upon people (who may or may not have read it) because it is a beautiful example of Zweig's ability to understand human emotion and relate it in such a way that it is neither trite nor sentimental.
I am also fascinated by how Zweig writes about the effects of war on Austro-Hungary after WWI.
Zweig always writes beautifully, although his endings can be kind of pat. The two treasures are "Buchmendal" and "Letter from an Unknown Woman." "Buchmendal" is both a cautionary tale about retreating from the world and, possibly more so, engaging with it. "Letter from an Unknown Woman" is a classic that starts out as a very particular tale of obsessive love. It gradually becomes something more abstract: about the need to be recognized and understood, and about how misrecognition and misunderstanding are often just another name for love.
"What is the use of living, when the wind obliterates our footsteps in the sand directly we have gone by?"--from Buchmendel-
Beautiful narrative and amazing and thrilling stories.
the enigmatic fact that supreme achievements and outstanding capacity are only rendered possible by mental concentration, by a sublime mono-mania that verges on lunacy-Stefan Zweig, "Buchmendel"
- Fantastic Night- Moonbeam Alley
“Fantastic Night” (I love the title BTW, I really think the writer has totally captured our hearts and our imagination because you straightaway want to know what is it about the night that was fantastic?) is about man’s spiritual awakening.
That main character is a successful writer, who never speaks, to whom the entire story is addressed in second person, who receives a letter from a woman who is dying who turns out to have known and devoted herself to him all her life, from childhood onwards.However, I did not guess that at the time age of thirteen, still a child, it was as it I had been immersed in fire.
The title work is one of his best and most unique long stories. Four or five others of that caliber are collected here. Compulsion. In the Snow is a particularly potent short piece from his earlier days. Also some of his weaker more melodramatic stuff is here: Twenty-Four Hours in the Life of a Woman, for example.
My first foray into Stefan Zweig’s writing. Not at all disappointing.The book contains five stories, some a little longer than the others. Zweig presents various scenarios with the littlest of things which is quite amazing, in my opinion. His characters are few, his setting small, his stories well-craft. He delves into the psychological aspect of the characters, creating profound stories  Fantastic Night The longest out of the five. Quite boring and wordy at first with all the narrator’s inner m
The story gets interesting once he meets the woman and her husband.
He plays tricks on them but what’s fascinating about the meeting is that their brief interaction is a no word, wholly action-centered.
It is creepy and I just don’t get her love till the end.
She only has few interactions with the man, which he never remember whenever he encounters her again.
In here, a man tells his story from a previous summer to a companion on how he plays a trick on a girl, mistaking his interest as sympathy and indifference.
Okay…though to be honest, I don’t remember much about this one.

Απλές εναλλαγές, διακυμάνσεις στα "μέσα" του ήρωά μας και κυρίως μια κλιμάκωση που όσο η σκέψη ωριμάζει καταλήγει στην αλήθεια που είναι μπροστά μας χωρίς να την αποδεχόμαστε.
Τυχαία περιστατικά, αφορμές χωρίς αιτία, ικανές όμως να τον τραβήξουν απ' τον γιακά, οι μικρές καταστάσεις που βιώνει η ήρωας τον κάνουν να δοκιμαστεί και να βγει απ' τα όρια του εαυτού του.Όλα ξεκινούν από ένα παιχνίδι της σκέψης και ένα ανεξήγητο ερέθισμα.
Μετά η ζωή αλλάζει, μεταμορφώνεται και μια μια οι πτυχές της γίνονται απλή πραγματικότητα, για να καταλήξει στην αποδοχή των γεγονότων και στην αυτοκριτική του χωρίς ενδοιασμούς.Εκείνη η νύχτα, λοιπόν, ξύπνησε κάτι απ' τα μέσα του και τον έκανε κατάτι καλύτερο άνθρωπο, μόνο και μόνο γιατί κοίταξε προς το μέρος του και γνωρίστηκε καλύτερα με τον εαυτό του.
Una vez tenido una breve introducción al estilo de Zweig con The Society of the Crossed Keys creo que ya tenía una idea de que esperar. Su estilo es curioso y divertido, aunque puede llegar a sentirse lejano y vago, me parece. La característica común de las historias es que logran convertir sucesos cotidianos en aventuras dignas de ser contadas, y no necesariamente por lo que ocurre si no por la forma tan pintoresca de ser narrados y los detalles de caracterización.
A wonderful collection of Stefan Zweig's stories. His writing is elegant, philosophical and humane. Zweig was extremely erudite but wore his knowledge lightly. He conjures up beautiful turn-of-the-century European settings & a time when people travelled, for leisure & then necessity. Bittersweetness of past loves, the fears of war and a reverence for forgotten greats (a bibliophile, an actor) drive these tales, told with warmth & style. Excellent translation by Anthea Bell.
En realidad es un 3.7. No soy especialmente partidaria de los libros de relatos, no suelen gustarme. Sin embargo, la prosa de Zweig sigue siendo excelente con independencia de la longitud del escrito. Puntuando a título individual: - Primavera en el Prater - 3/5 - En la nieve - 4/5 - Escarlatina - 4/5 - La institutriz - 3/5 - Novelita de verano - 3/5 - Noche fantástica - 4/5 - El pago de una deuda atrasada - 5/5
