https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120589.The_Portable_Walt_Whitman
I looked and looked for the most fulfilling edition of Walt Whitman, and I believe this is it. Whitman's a tough man to anthologize-- rather than publish multiple books, he just kept revising and republishing Leaves of Grass for his whole life. Figuring out which poems, and which versions to include must have been a tough task. This anthology is a success. A hearty selection from the full breadth of Whitman's work, this book truly fulfills the task set in its title. I probably shouldn't have to tell you this, but this man's a genius.
I've never been a fan of the Transcendentalists, vastly preferring the English Romantics.
Obviously the two aren’t mutually exclusive, but early on I found Emerson boring and Whitman weird.
I still find his “look at how liberated and healthy I am to like the scent of armpits better than prayer” (which doesn’t have a scent but whatever) a bit off-putting.
However, I find his paratactical style kind of delightful, and I appreciate his effort to show that small, fearful individuals can move toward calm, cosmic understanding and confidence, however little I personally want to commune with the rest of humanity, let alone everything in the universe.
I don't even know where Michael Warner (or anybody else) would start in arranging Walt Whitman's works into a "portable" collection to be consumed by a casual reader.
Anyway, what's indispensable here is Warner's introductory commentary, which efficiently outlines Whitman's life, the value of the works collected, and the trajectory of Whitman's scholarship since the 1850s.
Really, Warner is an ideal person to orient the twenty-first century for the works of Walt Whitman, for, as expected, he foregrounds the matter of Whitman's sexuality.
There's one poem, I think from "Autumn Rivulets," that I just discovered and absolutely adore: "O Living Always, Always Dying." I see it as a meditation on our ability/inability to move beyond past experiences, to reinvent ourselves daily, to acknowledge that the self from yesterday is not entirely the same self as today, and yet to embody it all, as we are all "living always, always dying".
Changed my life. Spoke to me at a time when I felt completely alone.
I like his stuff on nature.
Selections from Leaves of Grass: 4 starsDemocratic Vistas: 1.5 starsSpecimen Days: 2.5 starsOverall rating of 2.75 stars
So the fact that this volume includes those great early poems would elicit praise from me by itself.But the revelation to me in this volume is "Specimen Days" - especially the entries from Whitman's time during the Civil War. His early training as a journalist and his genius as a poet are combined here to make those moments live and breathe.
They are stunning and original and unlike anything I've encountered anywhere.
The later poems are here as well - the greats like "When Lilacs..." - and the less great, when his faith in America had been shaken and tattered.
...in progress
Picked this up the other day after seeing a homeless guy in Chinatown who was the spitting image of him. Also, Did you know that Bram Stoker's Dracula Character was based on Old Walt?
Read parts of Whitman's work over several months' time - too much to absorb all at once. This copy belongs to the library, hope I can find a copy of my own.
poems - five starsDemocratic Vistas - 3.5 starsSpecimen Days - five stars for the Civil War medic bits, four stars for the rest
A bit pompous, a tendency to dumb down, but in places (and that's enough), just marvellous.
I know that he is one of the greats, but right now he is just not interesting to me. Im not in the right mindset for him.
luv it
My 10th grade American lit teacher said of Walt Whitman, "This is a guy who just couldn't wait to jump out of bed every morning." As a 16-year old, I was impressed already, but as I read his writing I became seriously fascinated with the life force that flows out through his poetry.
I still read and re-read his poetry, not to relive my life as a 16-year old (not at all!) but to witness and hold the life-force that Whitman embodies.
The compassionate, loving acceptance that Walt Whitman gave to his experience in the world inspires me in my own brand of faith in life, and in the ultimate value that this universe has.
...just started this, although my version has a blue cover. Never read Whitman, and this seems like an oversight. Of course, all my knowledge of him comes from Dead Poets Society, and the interesting introduction by Van Doren includes the 'barbaric yawp' early on. Which is always handy. Having just read Caryl Phillips, will be interested to see how, or if, the poems look at identity and US slavery.
Packed full of many more goodies than just Song of Myself. One of the only books I recommend reading the introduction. Quite the mind, especially given the times.Quotes:Do I contradict myself? Good, I contain multitudes.Not objecting to special revelations, considering a curl of smoke or hair on the back of my hand just as curious as any revelation / lads ahold of fire engines and hook and ladder ropes no less to me than the gods of the antique wars.
I was first inspired to read this after seeing "Into the wild" The Chris McCandless story. I find poetry quite easy to read and follow. I enjoy the challenge this can bring to the so called modern consistency and format poetry can be now. I enjoyed the ideas and the vision behind his words and often felt relation to them which it what draws me further into the book.
what is left to be said? whitman tackles an enormous project and does so in a unique style which is exciting to read for those in love with language (and America). whether or not his experiment is successful is debatable, but it is an entirely engrossing (if not over the top) read.
Walt Whitman is what I read when I'm sad. He makes America seem so beautiful, life so simple.
its cool.. x
Never finished it. bleh.
This is by far my favorite edition of Walt Whitmans poems.
This is by far my favorite edition of Walt Whitman´s poems.
Perfect verse across the board. Nearly biblical in scope and execution. I revisit this daily.
