https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763426.Paterson
To commemorate a place like Paterson in a work which he knew would be compared to James Joyce’s Finnegans Wake - the poetic story of the River Liffey as it makes its way through Dublin to the sea - is a bold artistic move, especially since Williams had no personal connection to force his hand.
The old mill towns of Northern New Jersey blossomed in the early nineteenth century because he wanted them to.
More than being the genesis of American industrialism, Paterson is also the germ of corporate America.
Thanks largely to Hamilton and his Society for the Employment of Useful Manufactures in Paterson, New Jersey became the go-to place for free-wheeling corporate entrepreneurs to get their bona fides for the asking from the state legislature.
I had little idea Williams was influenced by his reading of James Joyce's Ulysses, before writing an 85-line poem on Paterson, New Jersey in 1926.
Patterson is not only the city in New Jersey but the central personna of the poem.
From above, higher than the spires,higher even than the office·towers, from oozyfields abandoned to grey beds of dead grass,black sumac, withered weed-stalks, mud and thickets cluttered with dead leaves,the river comes pouring in above the cityand crashes from the edge of the gorgein a recoil of spray and rainbow mists.A man like a city and a woman like a flower,who are in love.

Two kinds of American books: house books (Walden), and river books (A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers). One teaches you how to build a house, the other teaches you how to destroy the house you built. Patterson has got to be one of the great river books.
I was contemplating my dilemma, a world without details, a writer without a poet's heart on my way to work.
Paterson (me) feels both new and used...My shirt still looks new, but its darkness has faded over 20 years, since the time I first used it to go to my first high school dance...I didn't know at the time what a corsage was or what to do with it.
Paterson walks the pavement...endlessly walking...a book review can be a city too, Paterson says, and as he does so, he becomes my black shirt from my high school dance, worn again as a 30-something-year-old on his way to work.
FRom BBC Radio 3 - Drama on 3:American poet William Carlos Williams's poly-vocal epic poem 'Paterson' is a portrait of his favoured city in New Jersey where he worked as a doctor.
His new writing, commentary and interviews all arise from a direct engagement with the city and the poem, responding to the place as it stands - politically and economically.Recorded at a political and economic turning point for the USA, Michael Symmons Roberts tests today's Paterson against the place Williams knew, and asks if the poet's warnings about the effects of modernization and technology were prescient, or merely nostalgic.
Ten million Elvis fans ARE wrong.Paterson is the magnum opus of a man who forgot that one of the ways that poets are divided are those who are obsessed with the art of poesy, and those obsessed with its craft.
There are snippets where Williams' writing is so powerful as to take the breath away, where he approaches the genius of the early years of his career, and the stuff sounds just as good as "The Red Wheel-Barrow" or "This Is Just to Say." In other words, it would have made a great collection of poems, but as one long piece, it falls somewhat short.If nothing else, it does state the greatest rule of poetry as succinctly as ever before or ever since: "no ideas but in things." If only Williams had listened to himself just a tad more.
Probably the best American long poem, more continuous than Berryman (though I rode the Prospect Park bus with him for years in grad school at MN).
Of course, the best long poems I know are Pushkin's Evgeny Onegin, Byron's Don Juan, Wordsworth's Prelude.
WC Williams' Book I, "The Delineaments of the Giants", contains great prose sections on Passaic Falls, and Mrs Rev Cummings, who fell into the gorge there, and Sam Patch, who dove but did die in his Genesee Gorge plunge, publicized with excursions from Canada to visit.
divorce!"(New Directions, p 28).
Note Symonds: "Deformed verse [choliambs, with spondee at end] was suited to deformed morality" (New Dir, 53).
Book II, Sunday in the Park.
We sit and talk quietly,with long lapses of silence,and I am aware of the streamthat has no language, coursingbeneath the quiet heaven ofyour eyes,which has no speech;
Like many before me, I got to know this by watching Jim Jarmusch' movie 'Paterson' (which I really, really loved).
This is not the kind of book you try to read in a few days or even weeks, that would be - according to me, that is - daft.
The feeling like you're walking through a city and you start to pick up pieces of conversation in bars, stations, railway stations, ...
But if you pick up this book from time to time, you can come across lines like:'Love is like a kitten, a pleasant thing, a purr and a pounce.
That concept is a road Williams used to go.
When you finish (is this possible?) a book of poetry, you do not have to come away with something specific.
You don't even have to know what you come away with.
Paterson was a healthy read, in that it demands one think.
Paterson, obviously, was in Williams' bones.
Here we suck on Williams' bones.
Perhaps poetry in general is not about taking away some concrete meaning, but rather about sucking on someone's bones.
Here is the place Paterson experienced through the research and experience of Williams.
Poetry is essentially physical, like making love.
Como boa parte das pessoas que leram este livro no último ano, estou aqui por causa do belíssimo filme do Jim Jarmusch.
No Brasil WCW é pouquíssimo conhecido ou editado, sempre à sombra de seus contemporâneos mais célebres Pound e Eliot, WCW trabalhou imagisticamente a poesia e provavelmente tem no longo Paterson a sua obra prima, não só em termos estéticos, como bem sonoros.
O grande pulo do gato desta obra é mesclar prosa com poesia, a prosa fica por conta de cartas e notícias sobre a história da cidade de Paterson e tal prosa é vertida em poesia na versão de WCW.

Truly a sign of disintegration and the triumph of incoherence in literary art. "Paterson" is a horrifying excuse for other people to pass along similar dumpster-style poetry as legitimate. I had to read this for a class after reading the "Iliad," "Odyssey," "Aeneid," and "Divine Comedy." After being filled with such artistic beauty, I was given the worst heaving gag sensation.
I took a gander at what other people have been saying about this poem. One of the other reviewers on this site stated:"Paterson is a testament to craft, and it forsakes art altogether."Which is considerably more friendly than my review:"An abysmal waste of time. I liked maybe 5 of 246 pages."
A brilliant, breakthrough collection. Not my kind of poetry (I prefer more abstract, imagist poetry and not so much the almost narrative style of William Carlos Williams) but I am amazed nonetheless.
And in the end, she acknowledges that this is such a great sorrow that it still affects her, that her anger is not even anger anymore, that it was always a false anger; it is merely a glaring cover for the deeper sadness she feels from being rejected-And let's be perfectly specific here, being rejected by a friend who had taken the time to cultivate a meaningful relationship but had decided to dismiss it as easily as he had taken to it.Part of her struggle with WCW is one intimately tied to their respective ideas of poetry and life.
This is a monster in human form, he is twenty-seven years of age, his face from the upper part of his fore-head to the end of his chin, measures twenty-seven inches, and around the upper part of his head is twenty-one inches: his eyes and nose are remarkably large and prominent, chin long and pointed.
He is 27 years of age; his face, from the upper part of his forehead to the end of his chin, measures 20 inches, and round the upper part of his head is 21 inches; his eyes and nose are remarkably large and prominent, chin long and pointed.Now there is truly no way at this moment for me to be definitive about anything really, but there is the fact that WCW’s version contains a symmetry that the PCHS’s version does not.
A book-length poem set in a modern city and employing a significant amount of intertextuality, Williams's Paterson looks back to T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land.
Along with passages taken from historic writings and from newspaper articles, for instance, Williams includes personal letters, some of which appear to have little to do with the city of Paterson.
Included as an appendix are fragments for the uncompleted Book Six.On one level, in Paterson Williams appears to be working out his own ideas about poetry.
In ignorance a certain knowledge and knowledge, undispersed, its own undoing.” (12)I really don’t know what that means.
Clearly Williams influenced a whole generation of American poets, and his words do ring with imagery.
My trouble is that often I perceive poesy instead of meaning.
My favorite lines from this classic of American literature are below.“A man is indeed a city, and for the poet there are no ideas but in things.” (4)“I would say poetry is language charged with emotion.
Any poem that has any worth expresses the whole life of the poet.
In graduate school, I took a seminar on T.S. Eliot and William Carlos Williams (great class from the legendary U of Illinois prof Chuck Sanders), that posited American poetry as a battle between the two poets' models.
He incorporates newspaper articles, letters, bits and pieces of overheard conversation, into the poem.
After that, it's hit or miss and I'm more relieved than not that he never completed Book 6.Still, for the current of American poetry I love most deeply, the only comparably important source--wellspring's a better word--would be Whitman's Song of Myself.
My favorite prose work of William Carlos Williams.
Williams seeks to establish his voice in prose, but more firmly and aggressively, to establish and advocate the American voice in the midst of Ezra Pound et al, chanting their disillusionment of America abroad.
The book is, in many ways, academic.
But it does establish Williams as a pervasive American voice.
It challenges the conventional ways in which historians write history.
It is thoroughly Williams, both insecure and powerfully adamant about the voice he establishes.
Depois desta experiência concluo que ler William Carlos Williams vale a pena, e muito, mas na língua nativa do autor (e uma breve pesquisa online reforçará claramente esta postura) - este tipo de poesia pede-o, obrigatoriamente.
Em termos gerais, a minha apreciação não é muito diferente dos sentimentos que sobreviveram ao filme inspirado neste poeta (e, concretamente, neste livro): a poesia rodeia-nos e o poeta faz um excelso trabalho ao prová-lo.
A poesia é uma documentação da realidade, pode estar nos encontros mais mundanos e inusitados, de um assassínio a uma listagem de matérias encontradas num poço, de um encontro sexual à observação de uma queda de água.
I'm continually revisiting this amazing work --- it's impossible to take it all in from a single reading: lines, metaphors, structure, observations, language, imagery, impressions, ideas --- all working together to give us the soul of a searching, diligent man who felt time and place in order to transcend them.A master of word, thought, conscience, heart --- WCW gives us a jewel that he struggled with over many years, a searing eye that defies its time; visionary. There are so many ... even lines ... that amaze.
"You lethargic, waiting upon me,waiting for the fire and Iattendant upon you, shaken by your beautyShaken by your beautyShaken."
The masterpiece of a man who never winces at the stabbing, painful clarity of the images he records. A true triumph of the spirit!20% completed.
I used to think "A" or The Cantos were my favorite long poem. What Williams does in this book is brilliant. Mixing poem, dialog, and newspaper excerpts to belend it into a wonderful book
Sorprende la gran capacidad lírica de Williams para utilizar una ciudad (paterson) y sus sucesos próximos e históricos, para ensalzar la banalidad, crueldad y a la vez belleza de la humanidad. Un libro rompehuesos, trastoca almas, influyente hasta el tuetano.
The theme is the search for beauty from which humans are separated (divorced) because of knowledge (book learning – the desire to classify and dissect), industrialism, materialism, capitalism, hubris, money, etc.
The poem starts with a complicated spelling out of symbols – the river, the mountains, the city – and reoccurring images – dogs, giants, flowers, etc.
Some of these symbols/images continue throughout the five books, others briefly show up and disappear never to be seen again.
I would highly recommend those two books over Paterson.
Paterson should be left for the Williams completists.
It's centered on Paterson, New Jersey in the mid-20th century, and is composed of poetry account events and places that don't necessarily stitch together in the way that any walk through a place in real time won't always stitch together.
I'm not sure it's the type of thing that stands up to intellectual logical scrutiny, but I felt like I got what he was talking about, in the way that I sometimes get what Faulkner is talking about without being able to say why.
I love Williams' idea for this poem/book, and portions of it are absolutely flawless - particularly in Books One and Two. There's one bit about a glass bottle burning in a fire that completely blew me away.
Considering that the book was written over 20+ years, and that Williams' health was fading - he was in his late 60s and had his first heart attack in '48, around the time Book 2 was published - it seems as if the physical health challenges he was facing got in his way of pushing the poem toward the place it really wanted to go.
Paterson + Lefebvre--Go!Critique of Elliot & Pounds poetics y new critical establishment boostering of their brand of modernism fascinating. So is P-sons in-poem justifications of itself and its method. Looked like book 6 was coming back around to, uh, stuff, things you can touch, which I would like to read...
Among the 20th century's top long poems, best read after Pound's Cantos and before Olson's Maximus Poems. Wash down with Ashbery's "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror" and "The System."
Book 2 ends with a multi-paged letter sent to Williams by a friend who is annoyed that he used some of her writing in book 1, and goes on to discuss the hardships of women writers.
(In fact the later books feature more and more about Williams practice as a doctor and his patients.) The poems begin again and soon become focused more on uranium until they are interrupted by a full page advertisement on enforcing the constitution on money.
Overall Paterson is a good read, but as I said, some passages are weaker than others and at times Williams seems to have lost his focus, or perhaps it just changed over time.
The important thing is how often WCW draws attention to sound, to language, to dreaming, and to currents (and their breakdowns, mistranslations, unknowability, etc.)—this book is talking about NOISE.
Lots of different sources, lots of formal play, lots of typographic play, and a huge mess of meaning that makes little sense because it's built on the soft mud of many little things (my fav offhand being "tra la la la la la la la la / la tra tra tra tra tra tra tra tra") that are not necessarily tidy echoes or recurring motifs but are so often AURAL because this book is fucking too much and it's loud because it's a currently cutting thru us and taking our sediment to mix in and also to make less sense of it but also to make us uncomfy and wet and that is the whole point of noise ?!?!
3.5
. worea coat of Crow-black homespun woven in Paterson .
74)The simple language, the Marcia Nardi letters, the history .
. "swill-hole of corrupt cities" (p.
109) "the whole city was doomed" (p.
And the guys from Paterson beat upthe guys from Newark .
127)American poetry is a very easy subject to discuss for the simple reason that it does not exist (p.
tied in knots with the Unicorn Tapestries, because, after all, Rutherford is just a ride away over the GWB.Thanks, Bill, and as you said, the "artist is always and forever painting only one thing: a self portrait."
The best way is to experience it but considering that this is a review and that yours-truly sometimes (when the fancy takes him) considers himself to be a reasonably serious, bonafide reviewer, here goes.Paterson is about.....1) The city and its geography first of all2) Its history which WCW recalls and evokes through using various newspaper clippings and letters from friends (including from Allen Ginsberg who was also born and raised in Paterson)3) Its about the life of a man, in particular parts it focuses more on the author's actual llife4) Its about the life of women and about how they bring life into this world5) Its about the river which symbolizes both womankind, who brings life into the world, and life itself starting at its source travelling over various rocks and then reaching the sea where it recalls the past before flowing back to the start (in a reminiscence of Joyce's famous few lines in Finnegans Wake).Most importantly this work contains lines of great beauty and wisdom too enumerous to list here.
Nobody is alone and no one will prosper without the help of others.Given these metaphors, I find William Carlos Williams’ long-form poem, Paterson, a thrilling treatise on the nature of humanity through the metaphor of the city.Much like John Donne’s phrase and the African proverb, Williams’ core premise resides in the complexity of people and how they need each other to work toward their goals.
Paterson, separated into 5 books, dives into the construction of a city, the lives of people within a city, and the nature of poetry.In all of these things, Williams considers the city an apt metaphor for the mind of humanity in all its variables.
It seemed 2017 had conspired to push me in the direction of the falls of the Passaic, to finally read William Carlos Williams' (WCW) Paterson.
Between seeing the Jim Jarmusch film it inspired and reading Faces in the Crowd by Valeria Luiselli, which alludes to it both directly and indirectly, Paterson was in the air.
The fragments or the images within and without them?WCW is playful, pretentious, serious, romantic, mad, and a consummate master of bricolage.((***More later?
Perhaps about Bessie Smith, who sings across the pages and out of them until her voice heats up Luiselli's work as well.
A lot of people lump William Carlos Williams in with his Beat brethren, but Paterson proves he's a modernist through and through, praying at the holy alters of Eliot and Joyce.
Williams' concern with meter and structure (in narratives, in cities, in lives) makes for mellifluous reading, each word and line flowing (often gushing) into a cascade of sound.Unfortunately for Williams, by the forties and fifties, the modernist teat had been sucked to dust, and the concepts and themes Paterson explores, likewise.
Odd that WCW doesn't hold himself to his own rule, "No ideas but in things!" (And he repeats it in case you miss it.) The book is precocious, with fan-favorites being his worst lines: Is it more than a pleasant but mixed-up cliché that "the quiet heaven of your eyes...
has no speech"?
The ideas of the poem are what used to be dismissed as pseudo-statement: a familiar overstatement treated as insight (ex.
Bad ideas are fine.
The problem is the treatment of bad ideas.
Their tendency is to be grandiloquent, mythologizing, fashionably obscuritanist and over-general, and not (like in WCW's betters: Eliot, Stevens, Moore) quiet, understated and specific.
It is near impossible to rate this "book", so i just gave it 3 stars.
It most certainly deserves more, but as a 230 page "poem", I had a hard time understanding and appreciating it.
I wish I could've gotten more from it.
One quarter of the way through i realized to really read this would take at least a year, w/ me reading nothing else except criticisms and source materials for the poem.
Thank you graduate school and the economist.
Though, with no mean intent, this poem is no Wasteland.
I have read hundreds of books, and as an avid reader I'd love to spout romanticism about the ways that a book affects a reader, but to be honest, I can count maybe 8 or 10 books that have truly "changed" me; affected me both as a person and a reader - but no doubt, "Paterson" is on that short list.
The long-form poem is made up of 5 books.
Books 1-3 are among the most masterful and thoughtful poems I've ever read (though book 4 steps back a tad, and book 5 is entirely forgettable).
Two conflicting emotions: hearty dislike for modernism, and strange affinity for this particular poet, William Carlos Williams.
Partly, I am sure, it's the notion of a person with a perfectly satisfactory life and career who writes because he can't seem to stop himself.
But I also like his poetry, in spite of myself.
This is not what normally inspires thirty years of effort and five books of poetry.I didn't like this, because it's mostly nonsense (and I think modernists take that as a compliment).
But in the end I think on it fondly because it has so much going for it as a poem.
