https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156724.The_Collected_Stories_of_Philip_K_Dick_4
- (re-read) - 4/5 - sequel to Stand-By- Oh, to Be A Blobel!
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Five really good stories are included in this collection. Please note that I listened to the audio version of this collection and I am not postive that all of the stories listed below are contained in the print version.1. The Minority Report: An excellent story that has some significant differences from the movies version (which I also thought was very good) 2. We Can Remember It For You Wholesale: Almost completely different in tone and content than the movie "Total Recall" on
Five really good stories are included in this collection.
The Minority Report: An excellent story that has some significant differences from the movies version (which I also thought was very good) 	2.
We Can Remember It For You Wholesale: Almost completely different in tone and content than the movie "Total Recall" on which this story is based.
I liked the movie, but loved the story.
4. Second Variety: Another excellent short story with a very good ending.
5. The Eyes Have It: My favorite story in the collection.
Dick Project #8Whereas the first three volumes of short stories all spanned barely a years worth of time, this collection chronicles the nine year period between 1954 and 1963.
Not to say this volume isn’t excellent as well, but Dick is operating differently here, especially in the longer stories.
It’s as if Dick couldn’t stick the landing or lost interest halfway-through, although apparently a number of stories in here end up being reworked into novels.
You don't need to know a whole bunch (or anything at all) about the amazing worlds that Phillip K Dick has created in his mind, and as long as you can keep an open mind, you can immerse yourself in this fantasy future right off the bat. You don't need to know about Archimedes to follow the story of the (always) male protagonist, and the backstory of the character or plausibility of this future doesn't hinder his storytelling. Each tale is filled with twists and turns, and it's a total pageturner.
PKD seems a little more accessible in the short-story format; I adore the guy's books, but they can be difficult reads. I usually have to let my brain unwind with some literary candy fluff after an encounter with him, but this collection didn't have that effect on me at all. A lot of the stories in this collection had a Twilight Zone-ish twist, and unlike most short story collections, the quality of 90% of the included stories was really solid.

From notes for each story by PKD included at the end of the book, these are about "The Unreconstructed M":If the main theme throughout my writing is, "Can we consider the universe real, and if so, in what way?" My secondary theme would be, "Are we all humans?" ...
There is really no theoretical upper limit to this.
Once you have mentally opened the door to the reception of the notion of -fake-, you are ready to think yourself into another kind of reality entirely.
It's a trip from which you never return.
And, I think, a healthy trip...unless you take it too seriously.
When you put these things together into one extended narrative you get a scenario that drifts between weird, often conflicting ideas and consequently expounds upon this representation of reality as something unstable and untrustworthy.
For me, the most brilliant, revelatory parts of any Dick novel are where the different representations of reality start to get garbled and all seem to concur rather than being mutually exclusive.
When Dick expresses his ideas in short form we are reduced to the old conveyor belt, that succession of brilliant ideas with roughly one big idea per story.
If you're new to Dick I would read his 7 major novels first then maybe try a selection of short stories.
autofac - 3/5 a little odd story about people trying to break automated factories by making them war against one another.service call - 3/5 a nice story about a swibble and the possible visitor from the future.captive market - 3/5 an excellent wee story about a women selling goods.the mold of yancy - 3/5 the minority report - 4/5 very good short storyrecall mechanism - 4/5 very short story that reminded me of Eye In the Sky or Ubik except the different realities were one persons.
A mix of 5, 4, and 3 star stories. Enjoyed some a lot and others not so much. Not as strange as I thought they might be. If you read about Philip K. Dick you'll find that he had mental problems at times.
He also never gave much thought to how computers might progress from the holes punched in paper tape to some more sophisticated technique for conveying information.
Interestingly, Ray Bradbury made the same assumption, as clacking machines reading holes punched in tape were often the representation of computers in his stories.What Philip K.
What Dick shows us was that people will still be people, even as the world around them changes in fantastic ways.
He used his understanding of human nature to create scenarios fantastic, yet real for us to enjoy.In this series of stories he also shows us his sense of humor.
K. Dick escribió todo esto de 1954 a 1964, sólo que para nosotros, los entes raros y del futuro que le encanta describir, nos parecen ya de lo más común, a lo mejor los miedos de Philip se apoderaron de la realidad, o a lo mejor era Precog, es difícil decir.
There are quite a few short stories in here.
I made it a little more than halfway through and lost interest...
it's less confusing to read one at a time and let them sink in a little.
I think most of these stories were originally printed individually in sci-fi magazines.
This was my intro to Philip K Dick and his clever and shockingly possible dreams of the future.
I'm reminded of Vonnegut's "Kilgore Trout," but Trout wasn't supposed to be a very good writer and Dick is definitely that.
I didn't see "Minority Report" the movie, but the short story was fantastic.
I first sought out this book because I had read that the film Minority Report was based on a short-story of the same name.
These stories have been bundled together into a collection, of which I've read the fourth volume.This book scared me, especially with short stories such as "The Days of Perky Pat" and "Autofac" which are about post-apocalyptic societies and how humans deal with the aftermath.
Dick makes you think when reading each of his stories- the social, political and environmental changes that may or may not be coming in the future.
Though a great deal of his stories lack a sufficient third act, I think the fact that they give us such food for thought makes up for it.
Many of the ideas are quite clever, but they feel too off the cuff, like they were spit out in a few words and not developed any further.
That might be a sign of the times, and I had the same problem with a book of short stories I recently read by Richard Matheson, whose work I normally like.
The best collections of short stories I've read have been by H.P. Lovecraft and Clive Barker.
I would take it the format is not for everyone, and some need a longer story to give the ideas their just due.
I had read a little bit of science fiction before reading this collection of stories, but nothing had prepared me for how devastating they were.
They say Philip K Dick was paranoid in real life; this paranoia runs through all his works, giving us these masterpieces.
The first two stories in the collection, Autofac and Service Call set the chilling tone.
Both are stories of humanity losing control.
You think that the stories couldn't possibly get better, but they do, again and again.
but I've seen no other book where the author manages to infect his readers with his paranoia as successfully as Dick does here.
A really great collection. Although lots of science fiction from that era starts feeling outdated and awkward, it is not at all difficult to transpose the main points and deeper issues to things occurring now. Part of the strength, I think, has to do with Dick's facility with dialog (both expressed and internal) and that rather than being overly concerned with technologies, the stories more often revolve around the impacts of those technology on humanity, and those concerns remain even as technologies change.
I enjoy Sci Fi to an extent. I'm a big Philip K. Dick fan as well, and I can't figure out how they were able to make so many movies based off of his short stories.Best story by Philip K. Dick also is my favorite movie based of said book; the book was called "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" and the movie that was based off the book is Blade Runner, best sci-fi movie evar!
Phillip K. Dick is known for his novels, but I think his short stories far surpass his longer books. Fine enjoyable stories for a bus-ride or a morning snack or what have you.
A slack handful of Dick's short and shorter stories including a couple that have had further lives as films, TV adaptations etc.
There's quite a lot of inventive stuff here but reading several together makes it obvious how much this is fiction of mid twentieth century america.
It seems Dick was unable to believe that this habit would ever decline.
Dick's anti-war feelings make themselves clear in many stories although it is set in an atmosphere of rampant capitalism and severe negative feelings about unions and socialism.
It's hard to reconcile all these threads but perhaps that is the fate of literature formed within the Cold War.
This is the third collection of short stories I've read by Dick in the last couple of months, and I remain impressed at how good most of them are!
And I love all of the themes/issues that are dealt with on these pages - post war stories, propaganda, time travel, anti-government, anti-war, etc..
Also, as a Bay Area resident, I loved the mention of so many local towns and locations, especially the city directly to my north, Petaluma!
The longest story in here, "What The Dead Men Say" was my least favorite, and four of the last six in the collection didn't really do much for me.
La biblioteca de Almería cuenta con estas cuatro ediciones de los cuentos completos de Phillip K. Dick. De la I a la IV, pero no la V. Tras terminar este libro decidí no buscar el quinto, sino esperar, dejarlo en la reserva para no terminar de golpe con esta magnífica serie. Ahora (junio 2017) ha llegado el momento de leerlo por fin.
"Service Call", "The Minority Report", "War Game", "Waterspider", "What the Dead Men Say", or "Oh, to Be a Blobel!" shouldn't miss from any SF reader's background.Remaining stories in this collection are your above-average latter-period PKD typical works.
100-2018. A tour of The Author’s works from mid to late 1950s. Includes Minority Report and many others. A nice collection, wandering between harder sci fi, humorous stories, affectionate looks at sad characters, and a fair number of post-apocalyptic stories.
Took many years to actually get to this text... and realize now that i have been missing some great sci-fi!
Well...Volumes 1 and 2 were amazing. Volume 3 was great. But Volumes 4 and 5 are slipping in coherency and quality. Still worth reading though!
PKD is a legend, and he's arguable in his best form writing short stories.
Absolutely loved it. Will definitely be re-reading this again and again
Slightly dated, but often enough, not.
A lovely collection, Dick short work is as witty and thematically dense as his novels, with impressive plots and characters for such fleeting pieces. Another solid example of short scifi.
