https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105562.Coming_of_Age_in_Samoa
This book is her first, pre-dating the work she would do next in New Guinea.I'm not sure what to think.
Of course this was by necessity since it is difficult for a female scholar to enter into a traditional society's male groups, but since not many women worked as anthropologists back then, her research is bound to be different.Between this book and Growing Up in New Guinea, it is clear that Mead is deeply interested in the nature vs.
These were the least interesting parts of each of the books to me, because I just don't think it's as simple as she tries to make it.
Indeed, a perusal of this particular title suggested a lot of material about girls and sex on some tropical island.
I'd seen movies about tropical islands!The book was not at all as sexy as I'd hoped, but it was informative.
My culture wasn't like that, but it did serve a bit to liberate my imagination if not my behavior.Years later, in seminary in New York, I became close friends with Mead's Episcopal confessor and actually crossed paths with the great woman herself on the Columbia University campus.
Frankly, I knew little of Mead’s book before I finished it so my reading wasn’t influenced in anyway by the entire critique that surrounds it.However, even without being biased, this book didn’t feel too scientific.
With that being said, I enjoyed reading Mead’s book and I would lie if I said that I didn’t fancy the idea of growing old in a society precisely like the Samoan one, a society in which life isn’t regarded as “a battle-field where each group is fully armoured in a conviction of the righteousness of its cause”.
Though the descriptions of the Samoan culture circa 1920 is certainly fascinating, the portion of the book that really captured my interest was the last two chapters, where Mead asks the question, “What can we learn about our society from studying the lives of the Samoans”.
But it is unthinkable that a final recognition of the great number of ways in which man, during the course of history and at the present time, is solving the problems of life, should not bring with it in turn the downfall of our belief in a single standard."Unfortunately, it is now eighty years since Mead has written those words and I believe that our society still is filled with these battles between camps of righteousness.
Coming of age in Samoa is an important book for two reasons: a) In a world dominated by men, Margaret Mead was an anthropologist studying women and b) her study was primarily about women in Samoa - their life cycle, nurturing and impact of foreign culture i.e., missionaries on these women.
Mead spent several years among Samoans and recants her observations in this book.
Her original research has come to attention with newer anthropologist debunking many of her research and calling many of her observations as embellishment of facts.
If not for anything, Mead deserves a salute for treating Samoan culture with respect and dignity.
As as result of Derek Freeman's "debunking" of this book, this is a very complicated book to read.
Freeman, who had sociobiological inclinations, was not seeking merely to debunk this book, but the agenda of cultural anthropology to treat human behavior as culturally determined.
What this means to anyone seeking to read this book or Freeman's critique is that both books should be treated as not really being about Samoa, but about the larger issue of the relative weight of culture and biology on human behavior.
Мийд използва опростената система в Самоа, запазила традииците на родово-племенните общности, за да покаже на Америка (и не само), че преминаването през пубертета не е нужно да е съпътствано с проблеми, вземане на трудни решения и неврози."И понеже старите грешки умират трудно, те трябва да се учат на толерантност точно както днес са учени на нетолерантност.
Трябва да се учат, че много пътища са отворени пред тях и всеки е еднакво позволен и че върху тях и само върху тях лежи тежестта на избора.
Необременени с предразсъдъци, неизмъчвани от твърде раннно привикване към някой модел, те трябва да дойдат с ясно виждане до решенията, които са пред тях."
Margaret Meade made up her supposed research results to please her mentor and boss when she made the trip to Samoa at age 21. See Margaret Meade and the Heretic, by Derek Freeman, Professor at the Australian National University.
Mead's seminal work is used by many sociology classes (including one I took during my undergraduate years) to show that many of the cultural practices we might assume are universal among humankind in fact depend upon our social context.
Later research confirmed that the Samoan natives did not lead lives so very different from other groups, and the sociologist's love of the 'Tabula Rasa' mind has slowly given ground to the scientific fact that human societies are largely preset due to the social forces in which our species evolved.
Just prior to taking off for Tahiti to help a friend sail his boat from there to Apia, Samoa, I bought this book hoping to learn more about Samoan culture.Even though it was written a long time ago it could still have been interesting, and parts of it were.
But for me it was slow-going and ultimately I gave up about half way through.Samoan culture today is far from what it was back then, and judging by some of the other reviews here, what Mead was told and reported about the culture back then may not have been accurate.
So if you are headed for Samoa and wanting to learn more about the islands and their people, I would look elsewhere.
2/5 stars By the time I finished the Forward, Introduction, and Prologue, I was already tired of this book. So much of the introductory material seemed bigoted and ethnocentric that I was turned off.Having heard of this book, and conclusions drawn from it, for most of my life, I was surprised and disappointed to learn that Mead spent only nine months doing her research before writing up this book. That seems a bit flimsy for an anthropologic study - Mead did not even see one complete cycle of the year.
I was inspired to read this book after reading Euphoria by Lily King, which was loosely based on the life of cultural anthropologist Margaret Mead. I also want to read Growing Up in New Guinea and Blackberry Winter by Mead which are memoirs of her early years. The best part of being retired is having more time to read and learn about interesting people and other cultures.
In the appendixes Mead describes the individuals in greater character, maps out the villages, family life, Christian living, her background in developmental psychology, her field methods and how she came up with her analysis.
The data that Mead shares throughout the book is quantitative, painting a picture of everyday life for women in Samoa.
Mead states (1928) that this work is “the first piece of work by a serious professional anthropologist written for the educated layman in which all the paraphernalia of scholarship designed to convince one’s professional colleagues and confuse the laity was deliberately laid aside.” I felt there were some things missing that I needed in this study such as the physical description of the islands, an estimate of the population, the age and sex distribution, and Mead’s personal academic background – was she qualified in the area of psycho-social development?
Страшно много се зарадвах, че тази книга се появи на българския пазар и много благодаря, че има достатъчно смели издатели, за да достигне и до нас. Когато правих проучване за самоанския си роман ми беше много трудно, защото фактите са Самоа са много малко, населението там се е стопило бързо, но техните наследници пазят огъня на своята кръв и ни напомнят за Самоа и за цялата полинезийска култура като цяло. Макар да има страшно малко книги по тази тематика. http://tebeshirche.blogspot.bg/2017/0...
While interesting from a sociological standpoint, I enjoyed "Letters from the Field" more, and reading the second book improved my experience with "Coming of Age in Samoa," as the personal account of Mead's studies put all in a clearer perspective. It was a good experiment to read this book and then read "The Savage Mind" by Claude Levi-Strauss right away.
Despite the shifting households, Mead states that the household with a stronger nuclear family had better well-adjusted children b/c they had definitive well-defined roles to which they were expected to play and thus had a personality.On average, a girl losses her virginity roughly by the same time as American girl roughly by the age of 15 to an older man who knows what he is doing.

(I skip the details, but Mead describes in minute details the growing up process)Mead then uses this conclusion to criticise modern society and education.
Then, in a society with such a vast amount of alternatives, the need to choose is a constant pressure upon the child and the youth.
The choice leads to conflicts with rejected alternatives, with other members and parts of society.
The problem of modern society (American), claims Mead, is that although it has and offers a wide set of alternatives, at the same time, especially as concerns education, the members of society behave as if there is one and only one right choice.
This is one of my all-time favorite ethnographies.
From a formatting and methodological standpoint, it was extremely unique for its time.
In the early twentieth century, most ethnographies were, to put it mildly, dry.
They were comprised of catalogue-like accounts of kinship relationships, foods that are eaten, plants that are harvested, the organization of the calendar, etc.
Unfortunately, Derek Freeman's 1983 work of attention-grabbing dross attempted to debunk Mead's work, a full 50 years after it was published, five years after Mead died, and based on the most ridiculous of evidence.
Unfortunately, many remain ignorant of the fact that Freeman's attack has since been near-unanimously judged to be ridiculous.
This is a book I'd throw up to tell someone why I love anthropology so much. With Coming of Age, Mead essentially made ethnography and anthropological studies accessible to the mainstream. This book weaves illustrative description with comparisons to Western adolescent life in a way that really illustrates the message of the book: Adolescence isn't universally a time of turmoil, but rather is a result of Western civilization on the process of growing up.Beautifully written, but easy to read. I'd recommend this to anyone interested in other cultures and how social experience varies with your surroundings.
I became fascinated with the controversy over Margaret Mead's work, so I read the original book, and then educated myself on the criticisms. Her descriptions of Samoan life are truly fascinating, and while it sounds like she got some essential details wrong, I still found the subject matter riveting. Apparently, American teenagers were just as neurotic in the 1920s as they are today.
Не я дочетох, зарязвам я след стр. 182.
In fact, one of the things Mead most admired about the culture - and the book gives every indication that she fell in love with it, as far as possible became part of it, far from the detached ethnographic observer - was that Samoans did not differentiate work and play and social life.
At the same time, by reading and carefully rereading Coming of Age in Samoa, we may get toward a more comprehensive vision of how we can help our young people, which is to say all of us, develop into mature, relatively untroubled adults.
A quick, though not particularly compelling read. It's always interesting to read something that was groundbreaking at the time of publication, but from a modern perspective I found Coming of Age in Somoa to be a bit dry and very light on actual analysis. Then again, maybe that is a good thing as I'm skeptical of Mead's ability to draw many meaningful conclusions after spending a mere 9 months living in the community.
Master's Degree -- English 595 - Representations of Age in Literature - A quick and easy read... where Mead saw American culture as offering stress to our teenagers, I saw her examination of Samoa to be absolutely devoid of joy and emotion, something I don't desire for our teenagers.
So this book was an important historical contribution to anthropology as a discipline but it’s not a good book to read for fun today. The most interesting chapter is the last one where Mead comments at length about her own Western culture.
O primeiro livro em espanhol a gente nunca esquece :)
pure smut
Good, but I am not meant to go into anthropology.
Interesting and ground-breaking for its time - but I cannot get into the ethnographic mood (despite having been to Samoa multiple times). Perhaps the mood will strike before a future trip to Samoa.
