https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76983.The_Viking_Symbol_Mystery
It's getting late, and I have a lot to do, so, I'll be brief: This is standard fare for this series...which isn't a bad thing.
This book is great for people that like mysteries.
Dixon This book is all about two brothers, Frank and Joe Hardy, who investigate a case with their detective father, Fenton Hardy, and are accompanied by their pal, Chet Morton.
There are quite a few interesting and unique things about this book, such as the storyline , which makes you fascinated with the book and makes you feel as if you are there following their investigation, which I find very rare in most modern books.
A lot of other children would love to read this book because it has alot of adventure as well as action that keeps the reader on an edge.
This is one of my favorite Hardy Boys books, because it's setting is in northern Canada.
While I've not been that far north in Canada, my favorite book from childhood was set up there, so this "revisit" of the area (many years later) was very pleasant.
This mystery is, as all HB mysteries, a little far-fetched and unrealistic ...
making it a perfect fantasy world mystery.
The Hardy Boys are such good friends, polite and respectful young men, hard workers, diligent seekers, and good mystery solvers ...
I always enjoy going back to their world in books.
Wow, you know who had terrible parents?
The Hardy Boys!
Who sends their children and their children's friends into the deadly Canadian wilderness after receiving death threats about meddling into the affairs of thieves?
Oh, you guessed it, the Hardy parents!
I guess you could say the parents of their friends are even worse for letting their children hang out with the Hardies in the first place, and I would agree.
While the kids are off fighting their father's fight, almost getting killed several times over, dad Hardy is home getting all comfy with mom Hardy and this live in "auntie".
Okay, I admit, at age 39 I'm a tad bit old to be reading Hardy Boys mysteries, but it was a gift from a friend as a part of a care package she sent me while I was stationed in Japan, so what the heck, 'twas a quick and fun read. :-)
Also it made me want to know what happen next so I just really badly wanted to go to the end of the book and find out what happens.The author really made this book interesting it is always a good book/mystery I really thought that the author was doing some foreshadowing like it goes to another side of the story like it would be about to talk who was the crime made by but then it would talk about what Frank and Joe Hardy’s father does in his mystery.
I guess I kinda liked this book it wasn’t the best one of this series of the Hardy Boys but I would still recommend it to most people that like a good mystery that they are not suspecting.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Kind of dull reading as an adult. Also, I think that the Hardy Boys, especially Frank, would have CTE as adults with the number of concussions that they take in this book, let alone their other adventures.
At least the chapters are real short
At 31 years old, this is the 1st Hardy Boys I ever have read. Great read! Quick, easy, clean, and fun read! Looking forward to picking up a few more.
This wasn't bad per se, but it just didn't really interest me. The settings weren't compelling and the mystery was only so-so.
A really good book. I can't wait to start the mystery of the Aztec warrior.
In the begining of the book the brothers which are Joe Hardy and Frank Hardy have their radio antena fall down, someone could have gotten hurt.
then their dad ask them to learn how to fly a plane on water for a mission in Canada.
Frank crashes the plane but he is fine.
their Dad who is Mr. Fenton Hardy tells them to go to Canada for the mission that he gave them which is find a viking symbol that is worth alot of money.
they fly to Canada to look for the missing viking symbol.
I grew up reading these Hardy Boys books, in fact, they are one the earliest books I remember reading at a young age.
I picked up a few hardback copies from a library book sale mainly for nostalgia.
After reading The Viking Symbol Mystery, I was reminded on why I liked these books, teen characters solving mysteries while traveling all over.
This book has the Boys, their friends, and their father traveling to Canada to solve a mystery of several lodge break ins that are related to a Viking symbol.
Granted this is not Agatha Christie mysteries, but for what they are, they are an enjoyable quick read for pleasure.
The viking symbol mystery.
This book is about a family who solve mysterys about anything all across north america.
In this book a rune stone is stolen and needs to be found before the theives translate it and find the treasure.
They will run into knife throwers,armed theives and booby traps.The whole book is awsome so i can not really say what the best part of the book is.
I liked this book because of all the action and how they always know what to do.
I also liked how they where so smart and brave enough to do all this stuff.
Entry 1-The main characters and protagonists are Joe and Frank Hardy. Caribou and Fenton Hardy help out. The antagonists are the people who stole the viking rune stone and the money from the Viking ship.Entry 2-Frank and Koe are always on the mve so there isn't any partivular setting. The point of view is third-person.Entry 3-The detectiveFrank and Joe Hardy help their fammous father on the case. The gang of thieve who stole the rune stone try to kill the Hardy's and sabotage them, but the hardys come through and bring the thieves to jusice.
Once again Fenton Hardy sits back and relaxes while his sons do his job for him. This time the duo investigate a petty theft of a runestone while thwarting some burglars. Pretty basic stuff, but it passed a few hours...
My 6-year old son and I are reading my collection of Hardy Boys books that I got as a boy. It's so much fun to watch him enjoy the stories so much. This one is favorite so far. He's going around the house say, "Bon Tonnerre!" like Caribou, too :)
read when I was 10 through 13
Great book I really enjoyed it.
Not one of the better ones. The entire gang flies all over a cliche filled Western Canada.
Read in 2005.
This book made me improve my brain to how to think logically when it comes to facing this reality.
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1991.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
The Hardys and thier friend go to Canada searching for a stolen Viking relic
