https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14656.Encyclopedia_Brown_Solves_Them_All

I loved reading these books as a kid!
This got left at rehearsal and - for the price of returning it to the school library that owns it - I was allowed to take it home to read. I loved these books when I was a kid they must have made a real impact on me because I realized as I was re-reading this one that I still remember the revealing fact decades after having originally read the book.
I remember always trying to figure out the cases on my own. Still one of the strangest towns filled with the strangest kids (and adults)
Recently I made an Encyclopedia Brown reference and no one knew what I was talking about. "Who is Bugs Meany?" they asked. Jeez, what planet did you grow up on.
So far I love this one moore than any other in the series. It has alot of harder puzles and they were not as easy to figure out.
Another great installment of Encyclopedia Brown stories! We love finding the clues & solving the mysteries.
These books are still good to make the "little grey cells" function, but they become a trifle repetitive... Still a good challenge...Maria Carmo,Lisbon 3 January 2018.
Something that the kids and I enjoy contemplating. Some are more satisfying than others.
Over 30 years later, I still love the series and I'm enjoying reading them to my kids. We solved 7 out of the 10 cases this time around.
although I really like the encyclopedia brown series, this one fell short because it was too many stories of tricking the thief into saying too much. it's usually more varied.
good
This is another fun edition of short mysteries in the Encyclopedia Brown series of books by Donald J.
We haven't read the books in this series very consistently, but now that our girls are a bit older, they are fascinated by the scenarios.
We listened to the book narrated aloud on audio CD as we drove home from summer camp and our girls were fascinated by the solutions.
They aren't necessarily able to figure them out before hearing the answers, but they are able to understand the solutions and they like the short mysteries.
Same basic formula.
Still the occasional shoddy logic getting to the conclusion (or one of many plausible conclusions).
Sure, Sobol didn't understand deaf culture.
Sure, he seemed to have little regard for Native Americans, past or...well, they all really just enemies from the past to him.My question, aside from "when the hell did they build multiple synagogues in Idaville?", is what kind of sick town has more movie theaters than delicatessens?
Not like Sobol needed a colored theater, but it probably would have stood as acceptable in this imaginary Florida.
But one would think that food would trump movies.
People need to eat.
Leroy Brown is back in the next six books in the Encyclopedia Brown series.
As Idaville’s ten-year-old star detective, Encyclopedia has an uncanny knack for trivia.
With his unconventional knowledge, he solves mysteries for the neighborhood kids through his own detective agency.
But his dad also happens to be the chief of the Idaville police department, and every night around the dinner table, Encyclopedia helps him solve some of the most baffling crimes.
With ten confounding mysteries in each book, not only does Encyclopedia have a chance to solve them, but readers are given all the clues as well and can chime in with their own solutions.
Interactive and fun—it’s classic Encyclopedia Brown!
Interesting.
I'd never read any of them before.
The book is about a boy nic-named Encyclopedia.
His father is the police chief of Idaville.
Encyclopedia solves mysteries.
He does a good job.
He's good at noticing little things that make a big difference.
The book is written so that the case is put before you, but as he solves the case, the end of the case is at the end of the book.
The book is made up of several cases, and all the ends of each case is at the end of the book.
A little annoying, but intereting.
I recommend Encyclopedia Brown. I was 8 when I first encountered this series. I loved it. It was recommended by a boy that I liked. What I liked about these books is that it taught me how to think before making wild guesses. Each book had several cases which were easy to read and follow for a child. I recommend this to any parent looking for helping their child to use logic and deductive reasoning. Great on how to look at relevant facts at a child's level.
Encyclopedia Brown (known to his parents and teachers as Leroy) is back to solving crimes of all sorts. The truth is always in the details - both small and large - and sometimes in what has not been said. Encyclopedia is wary of his encounters (or his client's encounters) with the infamous Buggs Meaney who seems to be at the root of some potential crime. Again, a fun book series to read and it encourages the reader/listener to think "outside the box" and really pay attention.
I really enjoyed this - I even flipped back to try to solve some.Sam seems less ambitious to try to solve them so this is the only one I am releasing for now. This was Dan's when he was little so it is cool to have her enjoying it now. It was the first time I had read Encyclopedia Brown and I really like it :-)
I enjoyed reading this more than any of the others in this series. All the puzzles seemed fair, and fun; the solutions didn't leap out at me. Perhaps I haven't reread this as often as the others.(I finished this book a day or so after [Encyclopedia Brown, Boy Detective]; I don't remember the exact date.)
The girls had me read a mini mystery story (each one is a chapter) before bedtime each night until we finished the book. Encyclopedia is very logical and the stories are entertaining for youn ger readers. I would say 6-12 age range. We enjoyed reading all the cases and trying to solve them before we read the case file answer. Great family read!
Need a something on your Kindle that will kill five minutes and keep the six-year-old from saying something like "Boy that lady sure is big!"? Here's the prescription. We've also proved my son will not grow up to be a detective...hasn't solved one yet, but we enjoy letting Leroy and Sally do the heavy lifting.
This book is in the mystery category and is for children. It has 10 cases and is as funny as a clown.The #1 main character is Encyclopedia Brown #2 is Bugs Meany #3 is Sally Kimball. It is a book that has dogs, rich men, and fruit in it: all in all it is a book as great as infinity!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Reread Alpha & Omega by Patricia BriggsThis is a placeholder, or rather a place counter, since stupid GoodReads does not allow one to count re-read books towards one's total book read count for the year. Even though I've read the book before, I READ THE DAMN BOOK THIS YEAR, AND IT COUNTS TOWARD MY F#%KING COUNTS!Stupid Goodreads *grumble, grumble*
I wanted to read Mr. Sobol books, because he passed not to long ago. And this is my way of a appreciation for his brillant work. Like all Encylopedia brown books. His book is very enteraining, quick read, and very enjoyable. I enjoyed alot of the short mysteries in the book. So i have three more to read and that will be that :)
Why isn't there a 1.5-star rating? I like the idea that these little stories encourage kids to do some thinking. However, I think they're a bit dated. "Playboy" doesn't mean the same thing today as it did in the 1960s. And calling Native Americans "Redskins" isn't really acceptable these days.
Encyclopedia Brown Solves Them All and Encyclopedia Brown Keeps the Peace by Donald Sobol - Still enjoying moving through this series with my son. We enjoy trying to solve the cases before reading the solutions!
Encyclopedia got a customer. He said bugs meany was protecting his fruit stand from other fruit stands. He stole fruit to! Encyclopedia found evidence that Bugs meany stole fruit. Read book to find out evidence.
While most of these cases you can solve using the information provided in the stories, "The Case of the Wagon Master" requires knowledge about the rules of flying an American flag that are not included in the store, and the solutions to a couple of the other cases are flimsy at best.
My children loved the adventures of Encyclopedia Brown and we once had many copies of his adventures - both PB and HB. This edition has ten different cases for Encyclopedia and the reader to solve. If the reader is unable to solve a mystery he can find the solution at the back of the book
