https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612888.The_Lonely_Londoners
Expecting a bleak story of the harsh reality of Caribbean immigrants living in London in the 1950s, I was delighted to discover so much more than that, a colourful study of the city as seen through the lens of a group of newly arrived people, with plenty of dreams and plans and experience to compare with London life.
It is about sexual freedom and modern life style, clashing with old, traditional domestic violence and outrageous misogyny, both within and beyond the Caribbean community.What makes this story delightful to read, despite its sad context of loneliness, isolation and alienation, is the colourful expressiveness of the characters, all individual and typical at the same time.
He has created a vivid picture of London through the eyes of Jamaican immigrants in the 60s.
It provides brief glimpses, glimpses of these men who wanted so desperately for London to become their home.
And what Seldon was trying to say, by portraying so many differing men, is that not all of these guys were cut from the same cloth.
But the random streams of consciousness towards the end were a little out of place; it was like the author was just shoving in some modernism in a book that portrayed no aspects of it.
These guys thought that London was going to be great.
I'm posting this today (although I read it years ago) as news surfaces about the threatened deportation of the 'Windrush' Caribbean migrants. I had forgotten how much I relished Selvon's writing with his colourful cast of characters, and this one was my favourite.
I’m reading a biography of V S Naipaul at the moment and reading about his Caribbean Voices period reminded me of this book, which I’ve been meaning to read for some time.
The novel switches between characters with a central narrative voice and uses the slang of the time.
There is a great rhythm and musicality to this book and even when times are hard and life is struggle, there is a sense of optimism.
It is a novel of great warmth and heart and it opens a window onto pivotal time in London’s history.
Communities without control," in a speech in his constituency in Oxfordshire.The riot made me pick up this 1956 novel by British Caribbean author Samuel Selvon (1923-1994) who is said to be The Father of Black Writing in Britain.
The story is about the life of working-class black immigrants called West Indians who migrated to post-WWII London following the enactment of the British Nationality Act of 1948.
The Act was mostly repealed in 1983.Selvon was one of those Trinidad-born people who went to London to work in the 1950s because of the said law.
This is a unique book, written in the same West Indian patois spoken by its characters, Afro-Caribbean immigrants to London in the 1950s.
Starting with Moses Aloetta, the veteran immigrant from Trinidad who is now responsible for initiating greenhorns to life in this cold, white city, we circle through the lives of a dozen or so other working class blacks from the West Indies.
Don't expect a profound meditation on race relations or colonialism, even though those things pervade the book, and don't expect a plot, but it's still worth reading both for the viewpoints and the prose.
Everything is lightly, comically rendered, even when the material is deprivation, racism, grey malaise and violence (this reminds me of the persistently comic tone framing grim events and thoughts in The Brothers Karamazov, which I’m reading now too).The world Selvon calls up of young West Indian men in ‘50s London revolves loosely around the appropriately named Moses, gruff in manner, with not a whiff of saintliness or self-satisfaction about him, yet ever heartfully helping his fellow ‘boys’ to find housing and work in the mildly, complicatedly hostile city.
I think Selvon captures a sense of loneliness in these characters as he shows what it's like to be miles away from anyone who cares about you in a city full of white people who automatically believe you're a criminal.
I love London, but I can easily see how it's the kind of city that can be exhilarating or sad depending on the circumstances it finds you in.This story is set in the 1950s, a time when Britain opened its doors to all citizens of British colonies and invited them to come to the country without needing a visa.

(It's so relaxed that it doesn't seem like a trad third-person narrative, more often like listening to an old man telling stories of what his mates got up to back in the day.) There is l great detail about the London of the 1950s and the eternal magic of the city, as well as about the lives of the guys who've arrived from the West Indies to look for work.
So if anyone else has been swithering for ages about whether to read it, as I did, my advice would be to go for it, especially if you're interested in this era of recent British history.The introduction by Susheila Nasta of the OU is excellent on literary background.
Sam Selvon beautifully evokes immigrant life in 1950s London for various characters who have come to London from the West Indies for work and opportunity.
The whole book is written in patois and it is this technique that brings it all to life - it flows like the best prose, is beautifully written and even the moribund slang sings.
There's not really a story as such, just a flow of vignettes that touch on discrimination, the weather, relationships, friends, family, feuds, humour, fifties London and so on.
You'll laugh out loud at the adventures of shiftless wastrels like the Captain and Big City, at the same time sympathizing and appreciating the travails of those who trod this path before you, Moses and Tolroy, Tanty and Galahad, back in a time when racial equality was not taken for granted, when contact with friends and family meant a waiting period measured in months not seconds, when the world was a bigger, lonelier, less connected place than it is today.
And as long as London lives, Selvon's book deserves to be read and remembered.
No judgmentsWho would LOVE The Lonely Londoners Anyone who wants to get a glimpse of Caribbean immigrants in foreign (little patois there).
Seriously, the theme of this book gives a glimpse of the universal experience of the Caribbean immigrant.
What I enjoyed about this book is being able to relate to the characters and their experiences.
This book was set in London, but you could easily interchange any country and I feel like the experience would be the same.
My family immigrated to US from Trinidad and the experience is the same.I would recommend this book.
I decided to read this book because I live in the same area as the hero, Moses and his friends (close to Ladbroke Grove station in London), and because I'm an immigrant to the UK myself (although I'm from Eastern Europe, not Trinidad).It is written in an English that imitates the speech of West Indian immigrants, a very rich and evocative language that gives a lively impression of the characters.The subject matter of the book - being an alien, living as a penniless minority in an affluent society, chasing the pipe dream of making it big in one of the great cities of the world, facing racial injustices on a daily basis - is very relevant, deeply resonant, and often a bit uncomfortable to read for a white person.The embittered, soul-searching inner monologues of old Moses ruminating on the fate of his fellowmen are poetic and touching.BUT.This has got to be the most misogynous book I have ever read.The (mostly male) characters we are presented with live in a world where using, abusing and disrespecting women is the norm.
Selvon at once reinforces the loneliness that comes with being an outsider in the vast, cold and racially prejudiced London, yet he also injects a sense of bustling, local festivity, a place for hopes and dreams (both fulfilled and dashed).While some people find the anecdotal form too short and abrupt, feeling as if you just get involved with one of the characters before the narrative cuts away elsewhere, I feel like this is the perfect style for such a story, as it really represents the sensation of city life.
This was an absolute gem of a book! It was musical and lyrical, and I really got a sense of the character's lives in 1950s London. Their hopes, dreams and struggles. Quite charming.
I loved this book. So funny in parts, and so sad.
Leaning up there, reading the Evening News, or smoking a cigarette, or walking around the circle looking at clothes in the glasscase, and every time people coming up the escalator, they watching to see, and if the person not there, they relaxing to wait until the next tube come.
And then you would see a sharp piece of skin come up the escalator, in a sharp coat, and she give the ticket collector she ticket and look around, and same time the feller who waiting throw away his cigarette and you could see a happy look in his face, and the girl come and hold his arm and laugh, and he look at his wristwatch.
"Yet is so things does happen in life.
You work things out in your own mind to a kind of pattern, in a sort of sequence, and one day bam!
I love the vernacular dialogue Selvon utilizes to tell the story of these "tests" trying to make their way in the lonely world of London-- written in standard English, the story would not have been as poignant.
I admit I was surprised at the vastness of Selvon's world, but the depth of characters and experiences (heart-wrenching and hilarious) made this novel well worth the read.
'Is not we that the people don't like,' he tell Moses, 'is the colour Black'.
The friend was standing up there reading in the window about rooms to let and things to sell, and it had a notice saying Keep the Water White, and right there the friend start to get on ignorant (poor cellar, he was new in London) and want to get in big argument with the white people around.
And I would put a notice on all the boards:: "Keep the Water Coloured, No Rooms For Whites"'
This is pretty short and I do feel I might have missed some of the poetry and rhythm of it, apparently at some point it was a play too that would bring it alive more. But there’s a lot to like here, even in the 50s people were pretending to be Nigerian princes, and it’s also still relevant with the problems the Windrush generation are currently having.
Short book, very popular when published, about the experience of men from the West Indies (mainly) coming to London.
I'd never heard of it before this year, though it was considered seminal, apparently.
Mainly quite chirpy stories based around picking up women, finding jobs and places to stay, and male friendships, but with some very sad bits and a sort of prose poem in the middle.
I couldn't help feeling, unfairly perhaps, that the men wouldn't have ended up as lonely if they had been able to move beyond their very sexist view of women.
That was alright! Quite funny in places, and with some great characterisation/musings on race and life and immigration in the 50s and in general. The 8+ pages of stream-of-consciousness writing was horrid, though - 8+ pages all one sentence. My mind sort of glazed over. But yeah, very short read for my Contemporary Lit module.
Almost an oral history of West Indian immigrant to a cold foggy London, and a celebration of raucous summers.
A fantastic discovery.More on this review here - http://cecileswriters.wordpress.com/2...
More like 3.5 stars, but still worth reading.Review to come soon.
It ain't have no sort of family life for us here.Sam Selvon's 'The Lonely Londoners' is as relevant now as it was when it was first published in the 1950's.
This book first found it's way on my TBR list a month or so ago when the horrific treatment of the Windrush generation became national wide news.
The use of Creole English give's 'The Lonley Londoners' the real hearty feel behind the book.
I must admit I don't know much about Sam Selvon's work but I will most certainly be reading more of it.
A alternatively interesting realist perspective on London and its people
Ein wichtiges Buch, welches rein gar nichts an Aktualität einbüßt!
Them people who have car, who going to theatre and ballet in the West End, who attending premiere with the royal family, they don't know nothing about hustling two pound of brussel sprout and half-pound potato, or queuing up for fish and chips in the smog..."The Lonely Londoners are a group of West Indian immigrants who have decided to settle in London in the mid twentieth century.
