https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3165162-percy-jackson-and-the-olympians
It's a series for children, I know, but don't we all need to reconnect with our inner-child sometimes? And this is perfect for pleasure reading. At least if you can find humour in ancient Greek mythology in connection with American younger readers' pop-culture.And now that I'm done with the first three I cannot wait to get my hands on the others.
Beats the pants off Harry Potter.
Wonderful YA literature, and one of the few YA works that doesn't draw a thick black line between boys and girls (while, at the same time, it paints a light, subtle and entirely realistic picture of a normal boy's dawning awareness that girls exist).You can tell Riordan knows his Greek myths inside and out, loves them, and gets it.
My only quibble is the way he casts the epic battle(s) in terms of Good vs.
Evil: a very Judeo-Christian view, and one that is antithetical to the spirit of the Greek myths, where the Gods just jerk mortals and each other around on a level playing field.
This series makes my top 5 favorite series list. My friend made me read them and Im so glad she did
I loved it. I finished the first book, The Lightning Theif, in a day. It's awesome. I kept thinking how good it would be to read this to any kid, especially those with struggles like ADHD and dyslexia. The struggles these kids have turn out to be a blessing. Instead of not seeing correctly, it's that they see overly well. They're given superpowers and are more than mortals. It's a really fun read based on Greek mythology in modern times.
Read them in 4th and 5th grade but eh, why not put it on here.
I have so much love for Percy Jackson and respect for Rick Riordan.
The plot twists and how Rick Riordan introduces the new characters and monsters are truly pulling me in to read more.
I can't wait to read the 4th and 5th book to finish the series.
Percy and Nico who appear more in the story, are truly contrasting characters.
So far, my favorite books of the series were the Sea of Monsters and the Titan's Curse.
If you are interested to read books about Greek Myths, and truly want to read an amazing book, I recommend this Series, Percy Jackson and the Olympians.
Then I read some other things, and I got interested in some other books that became my favorites instead of these, but I still remembered these books as really, really great.Then, a couple of weeks ago, I reread the series.
Even though he has written many, many books by this point, both before and after Percy Jackson, he can't exactly write a book.The next thing which irritated me were the jokes on their own.
At one point, Percy (main character) sees a sign that says "Private Event" as "Pirate Event" I have researched dyslexia a lot (for personal reasons, long before I read Percy Jackson for the first time) and no one with dyslexia would have seen "Private" as "Pirate".
These are the first three books of the series 'Percy Jackson and the Olympians'. All the books of this series were very good. Although I did enjoy all of them, the one that was more interesting was the third book. The third book was 'Percy Jackson and the Titan's Curse'. This book, in my opinion, had the most adventure. They lost and gain new people throughout their 'Prophecy'. None of the other books really had that in them. You may disagree and like other books, but the third book remains the best to me.
E' un po' meno banale del primo e in questo modo l'avventura è riuscita a trascinare anche me facendomi sentire meno vecchia in confronto alla storia :DLa trama continua ad essere semplice, ma è giusto così...in modo che il lettore giovane possa crescere insieme alla storia che legge.La maledizione del titanoLetto dal 16 settembre al 28 settembre.Rating: 4 stelleL'ho trovato nettamente migliore rispetto ai primi due.
Me gustan mucho estos libros porque antes de leerlo tenía una vaga idea de los helenos o griegos y sus dioses.
Te entretienes tanto con la historia y te metes tanto con las personalidades (de los personajes y de los dioses) que terminas memorizándolos sin darte cuenta.
Sí, el libro da unas vueltas que no me esperaba pero cuando están a punto de morir, tus personajes favoritos nunca se mueren.
Osea por una parte eso está bien, porque o si no te decepcionarías mucho, pero en mi parecer necesita más drama.
Tampoco quiero parecer sanguinaria o depresiva, pero me gustan los finales trágicos o tristes.Tengo muchas ganas de leer la siguiente saga.
This series was one of the most fun in fantasy fiction, for me!
It is real, to the point, very tongue and cheek and almost always full of surprises.
For instance when Percy steps out of the 'elevator' that takes his trio to Olympia, he steps out and 'nearly has a heartattack!' It has fantasy mixed with very real human emotions.
None of the thinking about mankind and the greater good conflict, this guy wants to know which bully will beat him up in his next school and who his mum will date next.
This is a cute series for children. I didn't read into it at all (there were probably large plot holes looming that I just purposefully ignored), because I wanted a brainless, fun read. Percy Jackson definitely delivered.
ok i didnt mean to click on that but yah ive read the whole series and i loved them!
helped me with my greek mythology
Completely addictive even if meant for middles school aged readers. Loved how Greek mythology came to life!
i liked this book because i like action and adventure book.it was a good book for me because i like it
Extremely exciting,thrilling and a must-read for those who LOVE greek mythology.
Please read my last comment
Never a dull moment in the series. All of the books were a delight.
i read all of them they were so great i wanted more of them.
LOVED this series so freakin much!! Gotta read book 4, soon :D I miss Olympian Gods.. Percy and Annabeth <3 <3 <3
Got me into reading when I was younger and never fails to make me fall in love again when I re-read!
these are brilliant!
that it is scary
I think it is a so so book because it doesn't have alot of action and not alot of fighting
I first read this series when I was young, however I re read this series and the lost hero series a 
Without spoilers, I love reading anything by Rick Riordan.
His Percy Jackson series may be for YA but I'm middle aged and WILL read this series any time I get a chance.
Percy Jackson and his friends each have the weaknesses out in the open, ready to cause one stumbling block after another.
Then Mr Riordan takes those seeming weaknesses and shock the reader with a surprise that turns weakness into strength.
Nothing is what it seems, the mysteries intertwine, the humor has perfect timing and the world of teens and Greek gods is perfectly meshed into an alternative reality well-explained.
i've read all the percy jackson books and i thoroughly enjoyed them (i read them when i was 11-12). i dont think i would enjoy them as much now just because i feel like it works better for a younger audience.
I've read all of the Percy Jackson books and this is by far my favorite series. The author really makes the reader act like they're in the book. The author describes the characters, and as a reader, i perfectly understand what the character looks like.
