https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409809.Conan_the_Warrior
Три дребни красоти за баце Конан, и то от баш шефа - Робърт Е. Хауърд, а не от другите самодейци, които стават идеално за убиване на времето :)
Опитен, но без да се хвали; самоуверен, но не и глупав; първичен, но знае кога хитростта изпреварва физическата сила.Червените пирони – Конан и негова стара позната попадат в изоставен град, където два клана от подобна на Маите раса са затънали дълбоко в кръвна вражда, почти довела до унищожението им.
Конан трябва да впрегне всичките си сила и изобретателност, за да се измъкнат от кроежите на клановите вожд и магьосница.Скъпоценностите на Гвалур – Миналото на крадец отново изкушава кимерийския воин, само че има и конкуренция, която се опитва да го надхитри и противниковите лагери са повече от един.
Конан знае тайните на черната раса и е на ясно, че битката е вече изгубена.
This is one of the best Conan books - I have the Lancer edition from the 60's. Excellent cover art by Frazetta. This contains 3 stories that sum up Conan very well.
This collection of original CONAN stories is okay, but my favorite is still CONAN THE FREEBOOTER.
Here's Conan in the jungles, fighting stereotypical black natives right out of TARZAN.
Here's Conan in the lost cities of some sort of Mayan race, and the brown-skinned natives are all crazy fanatics.
The last story, BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER, is probably the best.
It's set in the wilderness, on the frontier, and the Picts are really described as if they're stereotypical Red Skins from the days of James Fenimore Cooper.
CONAN THE FREEBOOTER is the collection you really want to buy.
Out of all the mysterious, haunted, dead cities Conan has set foot in, this one just might be my favorite."It was a ghastly, unreal nightmare existence these people lived, shut off from the rest of the world, caught together like rabid rats in the same trap, butchering one another through the years, crouching and creeping through the sunless corridors to maim and torture and murder."Later, after much slaughter, sorcery, and the appearance of a third aggrieved party that comes shambling out of a basement packed with dead bodies and black magic, Conan and Valeria are the last pirates standing, and they decide to keep the party going with plans of plundering together.Jewels of GwahlurI have no idea how heavily edited this story is, but for me, it's style felt more modern and straight forward than anything else I've previously read in this series.
And it's fair to say that at least some of the portrayals of women in this collection, if not exactly transcendent, aren't fully the meek, stupid perma-naked-and-pitiful sorts that populate later renditions of Conan (I find the females in some of Jordan's Conan contributions in particular difficult to stomach...as a woman who likes sword and sorcery I accept it's not necessarily an equal rights genre, but sheesh ...) Valeria at least tends to give quite as well as she takes with Conan and any would be attackers!Howard has been unjustly neglected and occassionally criticized by some pretty high profile writers as being variously a fantasist in the worst possible sense, a weakling because of his personal life (this charge in particular disgusts me) and even as some sort of primitive 'natural' story teller rather than a great craftsman; I think the only necessary defence of Howard needed is to pick up a copy of Conan the Warrior and start reading.
Once again there's an ancient temple and kingdom in the middle of the jungle and Conan finds himself battling a hideous race of monstrous underground men-things.
There's a demon-sorcerer summoning ancient beasts from the night forests - Conan must contend with sabre-toothed tigers, panthers, even a ghostly snake.
It was some shambling horror spawned in the mysterious, nameless jungles of the south, where strange life teemed in the reeking rot without the dominance of man, and drums thundered in temples that had never known the tread of a human foot."
Concerning "Conan the Warrior", I liked all three stories presented in the book...
"Red Nails", "Jewels of Gwahlur", and "Beyond the Black River".
In "Red Nails", Conan and a pirate woman by the name of Valeria find themselves fighting a large dragon before entering an abandoned-looking city where there's a feud going on between two warring factions.
He finds himself fighting priests and hairy ape-like men in tunnels deep underground.
In "Beyond the Black River", Conan find himself and a man by the name of Balthus in Pict territory.
Overall, "Conan the Warrior" was a excellent book.
Pasado por el tamiz de Sprague De Camp, Conan vaga alquilando su espada en historias que cautivan en su sobrecogedora sencillez. Aventuras página tras página, que no es poco decir.
Yes, I'm a closet Conan fan and a big one at that although this "book" has been sitting in my BlackBerry for maybe over a year now. It is finally read.
Tauted by many as REH's best Conan story, I thought it's great but not nearly my favorite story at all.
It's another story of Conan coming across another ancient lost town with strange people fighting amongst themselves in an ancestral feud.
This one I liked a little bit less than REH's usual masterpieces.
The premise of the story itself could have easily been altered; instead of having Conan going to Keshan and passing himself as a training for its army as coverup for his quest for the jewels, he could have found out about them after going there.
Това не е роман, а сборник от три несвързани разказа. Какво мога да кажа друго освен, че това е Конан Варварина, по дяволите!
Conan the Warrior only contains three Conan short stories, but all three are Robert Howard originals and two of them, "Red Nails" and "The Jewels of Gwahlur" (also sometimes titled "The Servants of Bit-Yakin") are among Howard's very best.
"Red Nails," in fact, is my personal favorite out of all Howard's Conan stories, and it was the last one that he wrote before he died.
Conan the Warrior is now out of print, but all three featured stories are currently available (unedited and uncensored) in the five-star collection, "The Conquering Sword of Conan."
Libro de Howard que contiene 3 relatos, el primero, Clavos Rojos, es uno de los mas famosos ya que introduce al personaje "Valeria", la guerrera pirata rubia que tanto se popularizó el película Conan el Barbaro (la original), los otros dos relatos son igualmente interesantes, el último te deja una sensacion de curiosidad por lo que puede venir, cosa que Howard no suele hacer, sus relatos suelen ser bastante autoconclusos.Le pongo 5 estrellas como a todos, me encanta este personaje.
I really enjoyed this series and enjoyed the overall arc and intention of the project. However, there is a distinct difference between Howard's stories and the stories of Lin Carter and L. Sprague de Camp. Sometimes there's simply no making up for talent and Robert E. Howard had a talent for telling stories. This book is all Howard, all of the time and "Red Nails" may be Conan's finest hour.
Robert Howard invented the barbarian "sword & sorcery" style of Fantasy writing, and no one has surpassed him at writing it. Howard's Conan is a primal entity, almost more animal than man. Many writers have carried on the stories of Conan with mixed results. It is best to seek out the volumes that collect only the Howard stories, not all the later continuations.
I have a soft spot in my heart for pre-WWII pulp fiction, particularly Robert E. Howard's Conan stories. Although not exactly high literature, Howard knows how to spin a fun and entertaining yarn. It's a shame he didn't live longer.
Sin duda un excelente libro, me gustó mucho solo que el primer relato "Clavos Rojos" se vuelve un poco desesperante ya que todo transcurre en una ciudad totalmente techada y entre puertas y pasillos. Es como estar jugando Resident Evil sin saber bien por donde ir.
The master of Sword and Sorcery. Great stories that scare and delight; a hero, who's strength and cunning go unrivaled, and a good dollop of other-world building that make all Conan's novels great reads.
I was 21 when I first came across these novels. I devoured the first ten in the series in short order. A classic and one of the all time greats. Even the ones that weren't completely Howard's words.
the Conan books were the first and the best big barbarian type books
Spennende Conan.
The books I'd take to a desert island.The books I'd save from a house on fire.The books I read over and over.The best of the best.
Enjoyable escapist fantasy, probably one of my favourite sets of Conan stories.
My introduction to Conan. Red Nails is one of my favorites.
Classic Howard Conan "Red Nails" included in this volume - with a Frank Frazetta cover!
possibly read in spring 1968
Mostly Howard, and some of his better Conan stories. Some editing by De Camp. Proably 3 and a half stars.
Classic Conan. Action, swordplay, vicious panther-like women on all sides. For the true believers.
this was a re-read....first read this in the 1970's. Conan stories are timeless adventure. Howard's writing is very entertaining.
