https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127581.The_Dragonlover_s_Guide_to_Pern
I got this for Christmas at the height of my Pern obsession, so . . . maybe 1992? 1993? I pored over every page. I memorized the banners of every hold. If you love Pern, you must have this!
I have been known to keep source books for series that I no longer have much interest in simply because they are beautiful artifacts that make me feel fondly towards something that may have been improved by the writer devoting more time to their writing rather than their worldbuilding.In hindsight, I've often thought of the Weyr/Hold society as a post-scarcity quasi-mediaeval utopia (because while I dislike labels in general, I love snappy, sound-bitey pop-psych labels for things I have a ridiculously heavy interest in).
Not a bad reference book for those who have read the books by Anne McCaffrey about the planet Pern; but if you read the Atlas of Pern then some things are a bit different between the two books...
now if they ever make a movie series from the books I'm sure that much will change depending on the budget and none will look the way the reader imagined it.I know that I messed up with the location of Southern Weyr and Southern Hold, I had them opposite of each other than the maps showed...
but it still was a good imaginary tale and read.
A great book if you are really into the Pern novels, as it really explains many of the traditions and the history that is only referred to in them. It has songs, recipes, a guide to the flora and fauna, and other interesting compliments to the novels. If you aren't really in to the series, its probably boring, but if you are obsessed, its nice to have everything in one place.
There were some interesting things in this guide, but most of the information can be found in the books.
Much of it wasn't new or even needed.
There would be excess of information about some things and not enough detail for others.
I wasn't sure what I was looking at.
I wished there were more pictures since Pern is such an interesting place.Basically, this book seemed like it was put together for the Pern geeks and those who want to write fanfiction since its a great reference book.
But for regular readers who just want to be entertained, it's unnecessary.
A bit out of date but a nice data book for the early Pern stories with lots of additional background and info not easily noted in the books themselves as you read them.
This was flawed, poorly edited with whole sections repeated and sorely lacking in maps. Only for the true completist.
Pretty much a must have if you want to make sense of most of McAffrey's world, but even then it either includes information that has either since been retconned or is contradictory. A lot of it is unorganised, too: information on some of the flora, for example, is under the Fort Hold's recipe for klah, which also includes information on Bakercraft. It's a good reference book on the whole, though.
I mostly grabbed this for the possibility of pictures, and there weren't enough of those for it to get a higher rating than it did. I am just now re-reading the Pern series and what I read in this book did not seem much more informative than information I had gained from the novels themselves. Maybe a few statistics here and there, but I found that rather boring. I would rather just discover Pern through the narrative.Of course, I might not be a big enough fan to truly appreciate this volume.
For some reason, I got this book as a kid despite not having actually read any of the Pern books.
But I loved it at the time even though there were a lot of things which didn't make much sense due to my general lack of context for the series as a whole.
So, I'm probably not the best judge for this book's quality as a companion to the Pern series, but I seem to recall enjoying the information provided here and the included stories as a stand-alone experience at the time.
This is something I'll have to revisit after reading some of the primary Pern novels.
I have owned a copy of this book for years and years. It tends to live in my kitchen cookbook cupboard because I have made Klah over the years and also Bubbly Pies. I cannot tell you how many people have wowed over the Bubbly Pies. I love love love this book.I cannot believe I hadn't added it to my virtual library previously.
I should have checked and seen I had the 2nd revised edition and waited to read it after I had read the additional books it covered. I would have enjoyed it more. As it is, I've gotten a whole big bunch of spoilers in my mind. By the time I get to the books, I hope I've forgotten a lot of it ... which is likely.
This book earned its fifth star mainly because of the KNITTING PATTERNS! Well, not really patterns per se, but photos and descriptions of the colors and motifs used by various Holds in knitted garments. That's enough for me to go on! The recipes are also a treat for fans of McCaffrey's work.
It's an interesting concept to me, that fans would write up details about their favorite imaginary world. Perhaps I should revisit the updated version but, somehow, this falls into the category of the annotated Sherlock Holmes. It's fiction - how can you add more "facts?"
Pretty much an essential reference book for any Pern fan, particularly given the length of the series nowadays! Quite scientific in part, which I appreciated, and drawings of all the native Pern flora and fauna were included!
If you're a fan of Pern, and especially the world-building and scientific particulars of the series, this book is basically indispensable. (I'm completely guessing on the date I read this.)
Tried piemers pie!!! Amazing!!!
Never go anywhere with out it!!!
A must have for any reader of the Pern books!
Actually mine is the hardback version, but nobody has that one listed...
A must have in my opinion. I reference thus book while reading to get a better understanding of what's going on.
A must-have for the lovers of Pern!
Excellent Resource on all things Pern. It does need to be updated now, since 5 or 6 Pern books have been released after this was printed.
It took me forever and a day to secure a copy of this. It was soo worth the wait!
Good for the Dragondex and some of the other tidbits of information.Part of the ending and other specific hold details were made up and don't follow the actual book.
while most of the information can be obtained from reading the books themselves, I have to admit, the recipes she slipped in really clinched it for me. I've used all of them.
This is made to be a suppliment to the Pern series by Anne McCaffrey. Its a nice book to dig a little deeper into the world, but not necessary to enjoy the series.
Terrific companion to the Pern novels.
The Dragonlover's Guide to PernNye, Jody Lynnbeautiful pictures and art work relating to the theories and ideals of pern
A good refrence book for those who do costumes and such.
