https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38198018-what-have-you-done
The story is told in back and forth timelines (not my favorite style) and it looks like one of the brothers may have committed murder by killing his girlfriend- yet he does not remember doing the deadly deed.
The other brother feels a strong duty to protect him and so begins a series of police cover-ups and lying to family members.I love books that feature male main characters as unreliable narrators –there just aren’t that many authors that do it.
If you are looking for a psychological thriller with a male lead, I would direct you to an Allen Eskens or Peter Swanson novel.
The conversation sounded far more like something you'd expect from seasoned criminals or inner city youth than from two straight-laced cops who've never broken the law.
From there, it just became more absurd as the two went totally rogue.Before the 20% mark on my Kindle edition, I already knew who did it and why.
The transitions aren't marked, and it's often initially unclear as to where we are in the story.But that's all my opinion, as any review is.
You might love the story.*This was my Kindle First pick for September.*
An excellent story of what happens in the mind when stressed for years, no childhood as one boy spends it taking care of his brother.
Sean has always been the older brother, taking care of Liam for years, after their father dies and mother loses her mind..He made sure to work, have money to help Liam go through school, gets on the police force himself then thrilled when Liam becomes a forensic specialist in the same force!
Then there is a murder, after a night Liam has completely no memory of, and so many little things happen...Is Liam losing his mind?
It was also extremely exciting and super fast paced making for an entertaining read that gripped me the entire time.Memory loss is not exactly a new premise when it comes to thrillers but what made this one stand out for me was that every theory I would come up with was almost immediately debunked as soon as I thought of it.
Definitely a new fan of the authors and will be looking forward to what he comes up with next.What Have You Done in three words: Twisty, Gripping and Suspenseful.

Quick, entertaining whodunit. The writing was decent, character development was ok, and the murder mystery unfolded at a nice pace.

4.5 stars! I love this book.
The novel is a cross between a domestic suspense and a hard-bitten crime story, opening with a mutilated body investigated by forensics specialist Liam Dwyer.
But soon Liam realizes he knows the victim.
And he has no memory of the night she was murdered.As he’s always done in times of trial, Liam turns to his big brother Sean, a brash, bold, charismatic homicide detective.
But as evidence stacks up against him, Liam begins to suspect Sean is somehow involved.Exploring themes of family, trust and identity, this is a great plot-driven novel you’ll easily plough through and enjoy.
This is my first book by Matthew Farrell and I liked it so much, I can’t wait to read more books by this author. This book kept me on the edge of my seat until the end!! Gripping throughout with a shocking twist at the end.
That just seemed like lazy writing or writing that isn't thoughtful or smart enough to really develop characters that don't have to be hidden until the "big reveal." There were inconsistencies throughout the book (in one paragraph it was mentioned they had a relationship for a few years but the VERY NEXT paragraph it said nearly two years - is it a few or less than two?!?) but the worst part was the characters.
I don't read many police procedurals so I don't know if it's common to have cops lie, destroy evidence, and basically go rogue to make a book more interesting, but it made me truly dislike the characters.
I believe this was a debut by the author and I really enjoyed it for the most part. I thought it was well written and the writing was tight and held my attention. The novel is a cross between a domestic suspense and a hard-bitten crime story which has Philadelphia as the backdrop. This is an intense read and I enjoyed reading about parts of Philadelphia that I am familiar with. I did enjoy the epilogue. A solid 4. star from me.
Takes the thrill out of thriller. Found myself quickly not caring about the characters, which is a cardinal sin leading to another cardinal sin--boredom.
Very good CSI thrillerLoved this book, my pick of the kindle First Reads for September. This is a great suspense thriller, the characters are engaging, the story keeps moving along.This book would make a great movie, highly recommend.
This is the most painful-to-read book I’ve ever finished. I’ve discarded others to be sure. This one wasn’t poorly written, but the characters weren’t adequately developed enough (ever) to explain the choices they made. The protagonist wasn’t at all likable and the plot twists were as absurd as they were predictable. I think the author captures it best with this line: “I was a cliché. A goddamned Lifetime movie.”
I haven’t been having good luck with my Kindle First Reads. Predictable, formulaic, and other than taking place in Philly where I always feel nostalgic when reading, I didn’t like this one.
What Have You Done is a lean, mean thrill-ride of a book that grabs hold, refusing to let go until the last bittersweet pages. I am mightily impressed by Matthew Farrell’s first novel, and can’t wait to see what he cooks up next. Fans of Meg Gardiner and Mark Edwards will find a lot to love between the covers of What Have You Done.
I love a good crime thriller and this one was riveting!This is the first book I’ve read of Farrell’s and I really enjoyed his style of writing.
I enjoyed the main characters Liam and his brother Sean.
Although, he starts to doubt when nothing seems to make sense with any other scenario with another person involved.What Have You Done was a thrilling read for me and I enjoyed the twists and turns throughout the book.
This book is a tough one for me to rate since it is the author's first book and he is so excited to have had it published. The premise was such a good one! However, I felt as though I had just watched a soap opera when I finished reading it. Or a Lifetime movie. You know ... where the characters use stilted language and do ridiculous things? I really feel that the author shows promise, however.
really enjoyed the first 3/4 of this book. The writing was good, the plot was spellbinding and the police procedures were believable. The main characters were great but the supporting characters lacked depth. The final 1/4 was a disappointment. I kept waiting for the ah ha moment that every good mystery has. I thought the ending was transparent, predictable and definitely dragged out too long. The epilogue left me wondering if the guard was giving false messages to the visitor??
Both, Liam and Sean worked for the police department which is an environment where they both felt supported by fellow officers, loved their jobs, and then the unbelievable happens!
Liam's mistress is found dead in a seedy hotel room and Liam can't remember what happened that night.
Sean and the brother's mentor and fellow officer, Don, try and figure out what happened because no way could Liam be responsible and then we as readers start sliding down this slippery slope of secrets, lies, betrayal that are all a part of this twisted thrill ride!
Full review coming to lifewithemilyblog.com this Friday, but until then I give it 3.5 ⭐— it was a bit predictable at times, but overall I enjoyed it and there were a few twists that I didn’t see coming! The last 20% of the book was definitely more fast paced and suspenseful!
Full review coming to lifewithemilyblog.com this Friday, but until then I give it 3.5 ⭐️— it was a bit predictable at times, but overall I enjoyed it and there were a few twists that I didn’t see coming! The last 20% of the book was definitely more fast paced and suspenseful!
3.5 StarsGreat writing and story. Deducted a star because I had the killer figured out before 50%Def worth the read!
I bumped up my rating to 3 stars, because it’s a well-written book.If you aren’t a manic police procedural reader, you’ll probably enjoy this book’s twists and turns—including a final corker that I didn’t expect.
If you’re a police procedural aficionado and are comfortable with rogue cops, you’ll probably enjoy this book.
Little brother, who is the lead forensic detective, had an extramarital affair with the victim.
Their actions were so egregious, I couldn’t like the two brother MCs, not to mention having difficulty suspending disbelief.
I did mention something about manic readers of police procedurals, didn’t I?
Gut twisterNever knew what was going to happen next. This kept twisting and turning. Which brother was the killer, and who was going to pay the ultimate price to get to the truth. I really enjoyed reading this.
I had to stop reading this at 35% of the way through because 1. it's not well written which is almost forgivable but 2. the story fundamentally makes no sense. Characters continuously take actions that are totally unjustifiable to the point that it's not so much character development as people with names doing random things to move the plot forward. I rarely quit on a book but couldn't take it any more. Yeesh.
ConvolutedIn an attempt to write a murder mystery, the author puts together a convoluted plot and a crazy cast of characters to come up with a twisted climax. If you can’t find anything else to read...
I set out to make this my weekend book. Started it last Thursday and finished it Friday night! I kept thinking I knew who did it... and I did but, oh boy, no I did not!! A very fun ride!
Can Sean and Liam working together to prove his innocence or will the world come crashing down around him?The Dwyer brothers have been through traumatic events before, but proving Liam’s innocence might be the biggest hurdle they have ever faced.
When I was first starting out with this book I felt as though I wasn’t able to connect with any of the characters, but as I kept reading I realized that feeling wasn’t stemming from a lack in the story, but from the fact that each character in this book comes off as though they have something to hide.
Overall, this book was definitely a page-turner.
It was VERY cliche at times, which got old fast.
There was a lot of sneaking around, and everything seemed to perfectly work out the way the characters had planned every time...snooze fest.
The author could have added a lot more drama to some areas, but instead seemed to always use the easy and predictable plot.
Additionally, I didn't like that the author threw in so many stories from the main characters' childhood, randomly without warning.
They seemed pretty repetitive and like the author was just trying to add more pages to the book instead of substantial material.
