https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7037715-an-actor-s-work
When I read An Actor Prepares in my first acting class of my undergraduate career, it changed my life.
I had never much thought about theory or process before that point.Fast forward 7 and a half years and here I am reading this new translation combined with Stanislavski's other work Building a Character and it's just as mind opening.
I love theory, I love exploring what makes acting work and makes for a good performance.I think this is a must-read for any theatre practitioner if only for the reason that you can start to understand where so many of those acting exercises you do come from and what's the meaning behind them.
My understanding is that this book has been properly translated into English only in 2008 though the first translation has been made in the 30s.
Stanislavsky describes his famous system of the actors' training in the form of a fictions diary of a student.
It is interesting and not difficult read.
Stanislavsky himself has a huge heart attack during the performance before leaving the stage for teaching.
It would be interesting for any person who wants to develop is creativity.
Chekhov's book is more technical though.Я давно хотела прочитать эту книгу.
Everything you thought you knew is wrong. Well, not exactly. But this translation has many significant differences in terms from the translation everyone has been reading for decades. Overall, I feel like this is written more plainly. It would probably be easier to understand in general, however, while the translation feels very faithful and accurate, it is also less heavily edited. Thus, it rambles a bit more as well. Overall very solid, and in any case, this is the one I will use to teach acting from now onl
Seems to be the best and most comprehensive English translation of the original Russian text.
The last time I read this book was in 2011, so it seemed like about time that I pick up an Actor's Work again. I'm glad I did because there were many helpful lessons in the book, but this is a VERY dry read. This is not the kind of book you stay up all night reading, it's practically a textbook for actors. Helpful, but painful push through at times.
the section on rhythm and beats was really good...parts of the book were hard to interpret..and although the content was good, parts of it was written poorly...I would recommend for any beginner actor to start here
I read this book for an acting class I took. Although dense and at times hard to get through, Stanislavski knows what he is talking about. I learned to much from just the first half of this book!
It`s wonderful :3
It`s wonderful :3
