https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13211.And_Still_I_Rise

I assumed I would enjoy this one and I assumed correctly.This is my first foray into Angelou's poetry (other than listening to random snippets) but I have read the first of her autobiographies 'I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings'.
I adored the rythm of her poems, they slipped so naturally from the tongue and her choice of words was fascinating, it really had me chewing on each on certain words and phrases, rolling them around in my head.
One of my favourite poems was 'Caged Bird' but I particularly enjoyed the first part of the collection, which is divided into four parts in total.
Wishing so badly I was in DC today to hear these poems read at the Women's March. Does my haughtiness offend you?Don't you take it awful hard'Cause I laugh like I've got gold minesDiggin' in my own backyard.You may shoot me with your words,You may cut me with your eyes,You may kill me with your hatefulness,But still, like air, I'll rise.
'Cause I walk like I've got oil wellsPumping in my living room.Just like moons and like suns,With the certainty of tides,Just like hopes springing high,Still I'll rise.Did you want to see me broken?
Don't you take it awful hard'Cause I laugh like I've got gold minesDiggin' in my own back yard.You may shoot me with your words,You may cut me with your eyes,You may kill me with your hatefulness,But still, like air, I'll rise.Does my sexiness upset you?
Does it come as a surpriseThat I dance like I've got diamondsAt the meeting of my thighs?
Wow, just wow!I didn't actually read the poem, I listened to an actress reading it during a show and fell in love with it... it is power, it is confidence, it is hope, this could easily be a chant in a revolt or in a march... loved it
You may write me down in historyWith your bitter, twisted lies,You may trod me down in the very dirt But still, like dust, I'll rise.
If you can choose a format, pick audiobook.
You may shoot me with your words, You may cut me with your eyes, You may kill me with your hatefulness,But still, like air, I'll rise.Does my sexiness upset you?Does it come as a surprise?That I dance like I've got diamonds At the meeting of my thighs?Out of the huts of history's shameI rise.Up from a past that's rooted in painI riseI'm a black ocean, leaping and wide, Welling and swelling I bear in the tide.
I rise I riseI rise.
This was the first full book of poetry I read.
I was in the fifth grade, and wrote a book report on it.
When I decided to read it again, the language came back to me before I had even opened the book.
Perhaps it was the connection with my own past but the poems made me cry.
The language itself was enough.
Some of the poems I would like to revisit whenever I am feeling weak.
Perhaps I will have to make this a permanent resident on my night stand (as in the floor of my room.
I don't have a night stand.)
I love this book and author, due to the fact I find her very inspirational.In this book holds the key to my strengthn not Phenomenal Woman, which I find an amazing poem, and one of my favourites. And Still I rise, is an amazing example, of how life goes on. I am held, back, I struggle and still I continue, and this should be the motto for each and every woman out there, AND STILL I RISE
i love her.
I really liked this book of poetry. I loved the alliteration in verses, the empowerment of Black culture, and women culture. I liked the no-holding-back attitude that Angelou always writes in. It was honestly a very powerful, and moving collection of poems.My favorites in And Still I Rise:"Where We Belong, A Duet""Phenomenal Woman""Willie""The Traveler""The Memory""Still I Rise"
GreatRead of Course🔥🔥🔥🔥
It’s a blessing to hear your mother read aloud. I’m so glad I can hear her voice, and hear her sing. It’s like honey to the soul!
4.5/5 starshighlights: Where We Belong - a Duet, Phenomenal Woman, The Lesson, Woman Work, Still I Rise, Ain’t That Bad?, Bump d’Bump.
Review to follow.
Very much a hit-or-miss for me, half the poems I can’t even remember already but the other half are just brilliant and beautiful. Highly recommended.
Beautiful!
Gud
I can’t believe I hadn’t read this book yet. This was a quick read via Audible. While the book would be easy for anyone to read – listening to Maya narrate on Audible is the way to go.
You may shoot me with your words,You may cut me with your eyes,You may kill me with your hatefulness,But still, like air, I'll rise.
first time I have read anything by Maya Angelou; and it won't be the last!I really enjoyed the experience; some poems left me shaking (some king of love; they say in particular) others made me so excited and set my soul on fire. and just a few I didn't really get. over all my favourite part in the 3 rd one. the poems I liked most were (in no order): some kind of love they say; still I rise; phenomenal woman; on aging; country lover; one mor round (it gave me the chills!)
This is such a vibrant collection, so full of the joy and liveliness that is characteristic of Maya Angelou's writing. And Still I Rise is my favourite poem - bold, sensuous, wry, and powerful, it conveys the extraordinary personality behind this delightful little book. The poems are all striking individually, but fit together to create a beautiful tapestry of what it means to be alive.
What a wonderful collection of poems! I just love this woman, such an inspiration. Anything she wrote manages to give me a good vibe and gives me hope.
I enjoyed this short book of poems by Maya Angelou. I don't read much poetry but I could feel the beauty in these words.
4.5 starsI listened to this as an audiobook and it was probably the best decision. The poems were read by Angelou herself and her emphasis, voice, and singing completely blew me away. Since I am not a huge fan of poetry, I can say that if I read it instead of listened to the the audiobook (especially one narrated by the author herself) I might have not felt the depth and beauty of the words. I am so glad that I picked this one up. It was not only uplifting but also a quick and very enjoyable read!
A pesar de que una cantidad considerable de poemas me han dejado bastante fría o no me han aportado prácticamente nada, los que sí me han gustado me han llegado al alma de tal manera que, como mínimo, tengo que puntuar And still I rise con un 3/5.
Sin lugar a dudas, esta ha sido una muy interesante y enriquecedora primera toma de contacto con la obra de Maya Angelou, autora a la que planeo seguir leyendo 💜."I restsomewherebetween the unsung notes of night.Shaker, why don’t you sing?"-Shaker, why don't you sing?Angelou, Maya.
And Still I Rise (p.
Little, Brown Book Group.
I gave this to my students to read and later recite in front of the class from memory.
I think it was a great choice considering the students did not know of Maya, and this poem was a great introduction to her and her poetry, especially if accompanied by the video she has reading it in front of an audience which brings more life to the poem and increases the power of the words.
I could easily see how proud the female students were with the meaning behind the words, and how men agreed with her too.
I didn't read this right - to me, poetry should be read over and slowly, to digest it and savor it. I read this straight through in two sittings, but even so, there were some inspiring poems that stuck with me.
Just like moons and like suns, With the certainty of tides, Just like hopes springing high, Still, I'll rise. You may shoot me with your words,You may cut me with your eyes,You may kill me with your hatefulness,But still, like air, I'll rise.
