https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682153.Three_Fates
It begins in Ireland with the Sullivan family and reaches across the globe, culminating in New York.I loved everything about the story, from the characters (didn't love all of them at first), to the mythology itself, the romances and the mystery/suspense.
It initially feels like a trilogy in one but once you get started, you soon realize that the stories are so interwoven it would be a mistake to try to separate them.
Finally, the dialogue cadence for the Irish characters seemed perfect, adding even more authenticity.This is now in my top five favorites of her single titles, even though it wasn't particularly suspenseful.
*Re-read 11/13/2018  Rating still holds true!Adding a few favorite lines and safety info.I really enjoyed reading the Three Fates. If you like a little history and a little whimsy and fantasy this book hits it on all marks. The story revolves around the descendants of the three original families that once possessed three interconnecting statues of the mythical Fates. The Sullivan siblings are the catalysts in the story and are racing to recover the Fate stolen from them by the evil Anita, a ru
Rating still holds true!Adding a few favorite lines and safety info.I really enjoyed reading the Three Fates.
I loved the intertwined history the MCs all share and the strong lead that Fate plays throughout the story.
Jake and Becca (insta-love), Gideon and Cleo (burning up the sheets insta-lust turned love) and *cough* my favorite couple *cough* Mal and Tia (slow burn seduction).
(view spoiler)[Ages : Mal (32), Tia (29), Gideon (30), Cleo (27-28), Jack (32) and Becca (27-28) No virgins, no manwhores.Cheating  :None.OM/OW drama  : Mild.
Mainly Cleo and Gideon and Mal and Tia. Main Pursuer of relationship  : This has three separate couples with their stories happening simultaneously and converging together.
''Fate isn't black or white, right or left. People aren't just plopped down and made to follow one route in life on the whims of the gods. If that were true, we'd have to say Hitler was only a victim of his own destiny, and therefore blameless ... We have decisions to make, actions to take, good ones and bad ones that make up the texture of our lives. Everything we do or don't do matters ... Everything counts at the end of the day ... we have a pattern to make. We have to see it through, try to
Very complex and interesting book.I really enjoyed it.I loved all the characters,especially Tia and Rebecca.The guys are really nice,too-I liked Jack a lot.I was sooooo angry and sad when (view spoiler)[Mikey died.Ugh,I really liked him!*cries* (hide spoiler)].The story is really interesting,the Three Fates are actually historical objects which are,in mythology,symbols/goddesses of destiny.The ending is very satisfying and the main villain is well-written(bonus points).Overall,a good thriller/romance book that will keep you turning pages.Favourite quotes:“We can’t escape fate, but we can do a great deal to carve our own mark in it – to turn it to our advantage or disadvantage.”The e-mail from his father made him grin."The aliens, having performed hideous medical experiments--of an embarrassingly sexual nature--on us, have returned your mother and me to Earth.
Stories like these are so few and far between, and should be read by anyone who enjoys getting lost in a book, a good long romance and of course writing at it's best.
She could have made a Trilogy from this but she didn't...Nora gave us 3 books in one, and let me tell you it was great!Here's my favorite line from the book...I don't think I'll ever forget it..."You spend your life getting walked on, you learn to recognize the tread" Don't you love that?
yes, i can't believe I am confessing, but I have read nora roberts. If you are going to read trash, you might as well make it her:-)
4.5 stars
Malachi, Gideon, and Rebecca Sullivan have turned their family fishing business in Cobh, Ireland into a tourist boat tours to where the Lusitania sank so long ago.
The Sullivan connection to the Lusitania sinking along with their connection to Tia's family is intriguing.
My favorite component of the book was the relationships between the people themselves - not just the romance (which was nice) but the friendships as well.
I especially enjoyed watching Cleo and Tia develop a friendship.
Cleo, Tia, and Gideon are all well rounded and wonderfully fleshed out whereas Malachi, Jack, and Rebecca are a little more one dimensional.
United, they hold the fate of the human life in their hands—one spins the thread of life, the other measures it, the third cuts it.Yet their statues have been separated for ages.
Yet the thread continues to spin, waiting to be measured, and cut.
Their threads have been spun, and connected, and nothing and no one can stand in their way.I started to read this book a few years back, but after finishing chapter two, I put it back on my shelf.
It reads like one of NR's trilogies, just condensed into one story.
Han sido 3 relaciones bien estructuradas, que han tenido su tiempo y desarrollo adecuado.
En cuanto al resto de los personajes de apoyo me han parecido adecuados y me cayeron re bien: la señora Sullivan, los padres de Tia, Mickey (lo extrañare), los polis, Carrie, los antepasados de todos, etc.
Todos cooperaron para que la novela fuera espectacular.
Finalmente tengo que decir que mi personaje favorito masculino ha sido Jack por que siempre fue un caballero, guapo, rico, sensible e inteligente.
Y de las chicas, debo decir que Cleo porque ha sido la más espontanea y alegre de todos.
Sejam quais forem os contornos que as suas histórias tenham, muitas vezes já bem reconhecidas pelas suas fãs, Nora Roberts é sinónimo de sucesso literário, de umas boas horas de leitura e os seus livros deixam satisfeitos quer os mais românticos quer quem prefira um bom policial.Para quem andou tanto tempo sem ler Nora Roberts, parece que agora os livros até me caem no colo, principalmente os editados pela Ulisseia, que entre trocas têm aparecido cá por casa, o que pode simbolizar uma futura fase de enjoo mas, por agora, têm sido a leitura perfeita para intercalar com os exames, como foi o caso deste.Três Destinos junta alguns dos ingredientes que eu mais gosto, entre os paquetes de luxo que se afundam nas águas do Atlântico, a mitologia grega e uma perseguição pelas cidades europeias até ao Novo Mundo, numa história envolvente, viciante e que ajuda as horas a passarem mais rápido.
But, I was very pleasantly surprised with "Three Fates." The book is a great mash-up of adventure, mythology, history, and, of course, romance.Siblings Malachi, Gideon, and Rebecca Sullivan once had one of the Fates.
Forced to run across Europe to escape Anita's overzealous employees, Gideon and Cleo find in each other more than either one of them bargained for.Sulking back at home in Cobh, Ireland, Rebecca Sullivan is a wizard on the computer who wants the chance to travel just like her brothers.
In mythology, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropus (the Three Fates) are goddesses of fate and destiny.
The blurb on the jacket says: “Nora Roberts is indisputably the most celebrated and beloved women’s fiction writer today.” The Three Fates refers to Greek mythology, which my father used to read to me before I could read myself.
I think it’s fine for a man or a woman of 90 years to read this stuff … hey, they can look back and rewrite their story if the want, if it brings them joy; but dad, grandma, whoever – don’t try and tell your kids or grandkids that that is the way it went down.
Now here’s a promising novel … hmmmm, fate?
This book was recommended to me by my bff (Tina).
Little did he know, how important that little silver lady would be centuries later.Felix' descendants, the Sullivan's had the statue appraised by Anita Gaye, a money hungry gold digger that married a man before he died.:) hehe She later seduces Malachi, the oldest son, and steals it from him.
The Sullivan's and Anita Gaye fight to retrieve the other two statues to unite the Three Fates.
While pursuing the statues, they meet other descendants/future lovers that will help them on their adventure.Anita Gaye, however, will stop at nothing and kill anyone who gets in her way.
Although I've read a few of her books, I usually avoid Roberts' work just because she writes more of the type of books my mother likes to read (romance, romantic mysteries, etc).
My mother was the one to gift me this book, actually.
However, I've hung on to this one for a while just because it was so excellently crafted.
Great historical detail, interesting characters, a bit of a mystical twist...Yes, it has a predictable romance wound throughout, but it wasn't as cloying as other books of hers that I've read.I may not go out of my way to read any more of Nora Roberts' books but, on the basis of this book alone, I'll say that she has what it takes to spin a good yarn.
The first and only Nora Roberts book I have ever read.
A friend of mine who is a addict for this author was trying to explain what makes them all so good.
I was just curious since the woman must never sleep since she seems to put out a new book like every 6-8 months.
Anyways my friend recommended this one since it revolves around (I say that extremely loosely) Greek mythology and some nautical history.
All in all, as expected the facts weren't all there but it was actually pretty entertaining.
I still don't read any other Roberts books, but I have actually reread this one.
Me costó un par de días engancharme. Más que nada porque el romance es aburrido. No hay una pareja que me atraiga en particual. La mayoría me desagradaron al principio (Cleo, Malachi..) y aunque mejoran no les veo mucha gracia. Quizás me hubiera gustado leer más sobre Gideon y Cleo porque su relación parece más "pasional" pero desilusiona, todos deciden casarse muy rápido. ¿Qué tiene de malo el cochino concubinato?
I really enjoyed this story with lots of action that moved right along. I especially liked that it had three romances each with their own conflict and resolution all during a complex endeavor searching for treasure. Siblings Malachi, Gideon and Rebecca are trying to obtain three small statues and each person takes a different path.
bir nora klasiğiudi.. eğlencelidialoglar ve tahminj edilemez olaylarla dolu harika bir kitaptı.. yan karakterlri bile ana karakter gibiydi bir çok farkılı yaşam okudum :D kesinlikle tavsiye ederim :D
The future characters and plot were setup on the ship(wreck), before the main story jumped to then modern day 2002.
The main characters started out okay, but as the story dragged on the betrayals, backstabbing, and bickering became overwhelming and I just could not take it anymore.
I thought if I took some time away from the book that I could finish it, but alas I now have no desire to continue reading it.
From what I have read I would not call this book a romance.
I did not like Cleo's character either.
There, for those who have made the request, I have now read a Nora Roberts book. And I don't have to ever read another. This was trite and ridiculous and had really nothing to do with the Fates.
He left Morningside Antiquities two and Anita and had told her the story of the Fates.
Malachi went to New York to continue his relationship with Tia and to gather find out what she knew about the Fates.
Becca was taken by surprise when Jack told her that they were going to NY to find Malachi and recover the 1st Fate from Anita.
Anita had called Jack and asked for his help in getting the 3rd Fate from Greece.
Gideon married Cleo and Malachi married Tia. The Fates were taken back to the Sullivan's museum in Ireland.
There was plenty of intrigue, adventure, danger and, of course, romance.I do have to mention something that bugged me a bit about this book and others I've read from Ms. Roberts.
One of the trademarks in many of her books seems to be--three impossibly gorgeous, sexy women and three impossibly handsome, rugged men who pair up early on in the book and fall madly in love with each other after the prerequisite misunderstandings, hurt feelings, arguments and sexual tension.
I loved how she really blossomed and matured throughout the book.
Three Fates is no exception, even though it's a single novel as opposed to a trilogy starring her interconnected characters.This time around the story hinges on a trio of statues, the Three Fates, named after the beings from Greek mythology.
The Sullivans are prepared to do whatever it takes to recover what they've lost, and to find their Fate's missing sisters as well.Naturally the other two are in the hands of the love interests that two of the three Sullivans pair up with, and eventually we get the central core of six characters teaming up against the antagonist.
It was the first Nora Roberts book I've read, and pretty much my introduction to the romance genre as well.
I thought Roberts' writing was good throughout the book, and her characters were lively and interesting.
In one scene a man grabs and pulls a woman by her hair as she is walking away from him, and then kisses her as she falls into his arms.
But all in all, Nora Roberts did create a really intriguing story with the three fates and it was gloriously fun to see Anita Gaye getting the justice she deserved.
SYNOPSIS: Malachi, Gideon and Rebecca Sullivan are siblings with a mission.
It becomes a race against time and a battle of wits between the Sullivans and the very dangerous Anita Gaye to locate the other two pieces.
It reads like an old fashioned caper where MISSION IMPOSSIBLE meets OCEANS 11.
In that sense the book will hit some very familiar notes for Roberts fans, especially the first two-thirds of the book.
For those Roberts fans who've read PRIVATE SCANDALS you will recognize the doppelganger of Angela Perkins.
"I spin the thread, but you make it what you will.I mark the length, but you use the time.I cut the thread, for nothing should last forever.Don't waste what you're given...""We can't escape fate, but we can do a great deal to carve our own mark in it, to turn it to our advantage, or disadvantage."In this mythological romance by Nora Roberts we follow the journey of three small priceless statues as they haphazardly pass through history and certain families lives and shows us that everything is connected, and more importantly, everything happens for a reason.
Alright, he is Roarke, *cough2*)Based on her heritage from Ireland, so in this book Nora Roberts back to her patterns, to make Irish characters and live at Ireland, there are Sullivan Brother, Malachi , Gideon and Rebecca.
What I love from "Three Fates" is, Nora Roberts again can make a strong heroine, who she show for her characters, Tia Marsh and Cleo Toliver.
And from the man side, I more love Jack Burdett, Rebecca's lover, that for her surprise had tied with Sullivan family from the beginningThe villain, Anita Gaye, she stole Three Fates first statue from Malachi, is very2 bitch!
Interesting ride thru history, how one thing can bring many people together in love and friendship.
3  stars. Not as engaging as I’d like but nice enough. Kept my interest.Three people meet and fall in love with three others, which makes six for the group trying to locate three antique silver statues. A bad guy and thugs are the main enemy. An elaborate plan is set in place. There is some fun girl bonding among the three women.I loved one scene where shy, nervous, hypochondriac Tia was planting bugs in the bad guy’s store. Bad guy confronts her. Tia is fumbling and nervous, but decides to use
A bad guy and thugs are the main enemy.
There is some fun girl bonding among the three women.I loved one scene where shy, nervous, hypochondriac Tia was planting bugs in the bad guy’s store.
Bad guy confronts her.
Bad guy is impatient wanting to get Tia out of the store and takes Tia to the office.
There Tia secretly plants another bug.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Bernadette Quigley is excellent.
She had a great accent for the female bad guy Anita – sneering, condescending, snake-like.
Swearing language: the f-word plus religious swear words, but rarely used.
Setting: current day mostly New York plus England, Ireland, Czech Republic, and Greece.
Stars: 5 / 5Recommendation: A perfect meld of the brighter - mythology, adventure and romance - and darker - stealing, fraud and murder - shades in this plot that revolves around three pairs and their ancestors all connected around three silver statues, The Three Fates.Three Fates is a stand-alone treasure hunt - romance novel by Nora Roberts first published in April of 2002.
How do the three pairs outwit Anita, acquire the fates and at the same time find love along the way is what the rest of the plot is about.Three Fates is one of my favorite stand-alone novel by Nora Roberts.
