https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6495110-the-true-deceiver
And once again after reading one of Tove Jansson’s “adult” novels, I am not only marveling at her narrative subtlety and evocativeness, and her effortless ability to use the natural cycles of the seasons as a plot device (this book proceeding from deep Winter freeze to the beginnings of a great Spring thaw), but also at the Finnish practice of carelessly dumping their garbage in the sea.
This practice of garbage disposal plays a major role in this novel, as all the baggage of the artist character is lugged out onto the ice and piled up to await the Spring thaw when the ice will crack and all her unnecessary possessions will sink away, leaving room for her life to change even as it remains the same.
This book is deceptive - at first glance it seems like a simple tale of life in a small village in the harsh Scandinavian winter, but it gradually reveals itself to be a devastating character study as well as a reflection on the nature of creativity.
Katri is a somewhat sociopathic outsider, who is responsible for a younger brother Mats who might be described in modern politically correct language as having learning difficulties.
Anna is a illustrator of children's books who lives alone in a large house inherited from her parents, whose relationship with the outside world is somewhat naive and trusting.
The language is deceptively simple - this is a spare, moving book.
The True Deceiver would have been a good book about living with a face you can accept yourself with if it didn't tell the reader what the lies and the truths were instead of ever actually living with those lies for the reader to figure out.
Katri thinks she has the right to do what she wants.
It is hard for me to take seriously a book that presupposes one doesn't know that people can be nice without really meaning it.
You don't ever get to know if you are right unless it is in a book.
I do want to know people.
Early, in this little gem of a novel, Katri Kling and Edvard Liljeberg have this dialogue:"I can take the mail up to Miss Aemelin," she said."I can't let you do that; it's the postman's job to deliver the mail.
It's a position of trust."Katri lifted her face and opened her eyes at him; in the hard light on the porch they were truly yellow.
"Don't you trust me?" She paused and then repeated, "I can take the mail up to Miss Aemelin.
Do you trust me or don't you?"Katri's question is not only to Liljeberg, but to the reader as well.
In a series of small deceptions, Katri wins Miss Aemelin's trust.
This is a perfect novel in the same way The Great Gatsby is a perfect novel.
The only characteristic the two women share is the utter isolation each endures in daily life.
To survive in their isolation, each of the women has developed a highly idiosyncratic way of coping with the world.
The choices each makes are so mutually incomprehensible that their clash is inevitable, and when it happens, it's heartbreaking.Of the many wonders in this novel, what shines most bright for me is what happens when the women are forced to recognize, and to adapt to, the needs and flaws of the other.
Tove Jannson's The True Deciever is a curious, unsettling book.
Katri's stoic dog, her brother Mat, and the residents of the novel's isolated Swedish town fill out this exploration of truth, deceit, and whether or not the outliers of self-deception and blunt-force truth can be reconciled.
Jannson leaves the novel and reader uncertain with the possibility of muted but spring-like growth.Do you remember that Todd Haynes movie Safe?
Katri and Anna, the dog and the rabbit, beguile, like a dark fairy tale playing out in the plainest room.1/23/11 Edit: I'm moving this book to four stars after thinking of Evan's comments and how the book has haunted me the last few days.
You know how sometimes books have characters that are so preposterously symbolic that they fail to resemble normal human beings?
Meet Katri Kling, the yellow-eyed outcast at the center of Jansson's The True Deceiver—and recipient of the Simon (from Lord of the Flies) Overstated Symbol Award.
And don't worry if you forget that Katri has yellow eyes, by the way, because Jansson will remind you of it five dozen more times.
And you can see Tove Jansson sweating like a Finnish pig all through this thing.
I’ve got mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand I found it compelling to read and stayed up late to finish it, because I couldn’t put it down. I especially liked the spare style of writing; nothing was overblown. On the other hand the main characters weren’t realistic; they were sort of fairytale symbols. The theme of the book seems to be to explore how much truth/ honesty we want and whether people are actually happier with some level of kindly deception.
No window in the village showed a light.” In a mere two sentences, Tove Jansson sets up an entire mood and introduces a sense of danger.The two key characters are “the wolf”, Katri Kling, a yellow-eyed, wolfish young woman who stands on the outskirts of her Finnish village due to her bluntness and lack of social amenities.
At first meeting, she is trusting, truthful, and, like Katri, very solitary.
As Katri gains her trust – and breaks down her sense of security – many themes come into play.
What a person believes?
The intensity of place, indoors and outdoors, and of the shift of the seasons from winter through spring, as well as of the tight focus on a few characters, means the sense of sometime-mythical-in-the-20th-century is just fine.Thomas Teal's translations of Jansson nearly always (except, I thought, in some of the stories in A Winter Book ) don't feel like typical MFA product, they are more etheral, yet if parsed barely seem to do anything different, and I still don't understand how that works.
Does she really think her type of deception is better than Anna’s self deception?And at the end of the novel, when Katri said she lied about the people who she claimed had cheated on Anna, was it because she really did lie about it?
Or was it because she realized that the truth (of the objective sort) wasn’t the most important thing in the world.The changes in the characters as the novel went on were impressive in their believability and in the way they took effect in slow shifts.
Along with her simple-minded brother, Mats, she sweeps into the "rabbit house" (as Anna's house is called by the small-minded locals) to set things right financially and to set her own "plan" in motion.
Dialogue and thoughts, seemingly simple, but with a rich undertow of emotion, intrigue, and struggle between the two women.The end culminates, if you can call it that, with plot developments surrounding the minor players, Mats and the dog with no name that Katri owns and Anna commandeers.
In fact, the dog becomes a symbol of sorts, and its howl is about the loudest thing you'll hear in a book smothered in snow, winter, and cool calculations.Think Swedish minimalist.
Та кой не пие кафе, когато го канят – това е в реда на нещата, просто от уважение към домакинята“.„Катри можеше спокойно да подхвърли: „наистина, какво неприятно време за ски!“ или „Виждаше ли се поне къде минава пътят?“, или: „ Тия от града няма ли да изринат най-сетне снега?“ – да каже каквото и да е, с което да засвидетелства интерес, най-малкото привидно, тъй като хората разговарят помежду си, за да им е по-леко: но не – не и Катри Клинг!“ „…струваше ѝ се някак нелепо да нарушава спокойствието на Матс с тривиални реплики, каквито хората си разменят мимоходом при среща на стълбите само така, колкото да не мълчат.“5) Съвест, искреност, честност.
i think the novel underlines how bitterly disappointing it can be to have your perception of your own lights dimmed or changed or put away when they are slanted through someone else's eye, someone's else way of being.this is the story of two outsiders, of two polar opposites: the reviled yellow-eyed katri whose dog has no name, and whose talents for mathematics, and honest objectivity are grudgingly respected, and the reclusive anna, a privileged artist who hides in the warren of her house until the thaw with a tenuous grip on anything that isn't fiction.
between them, they have only the dog, and mats, katri's younger brother.the novel begins in the harshness of winter when the daylight hours are few and one at once feels the sun-deprived stupor that lays over the little village.
قليلة هي تلك الروايات التي تغوص في أعماق النفس البشرية بهذ الطريقة لتكشف لنا مكامنهاقليلة هي من تتنا
С всяка изчетена книга все повече се влюбвам в Туве - как умее да пише толкова пестеливо и магично за сложността на човешкото."Честна измама" противопоставя две коренно различни жени - мечтателната и отнесена Анна и пресметливата и сурова Катри.
Помагат ли тежкия характер и непоклатимите принципи на Катри да напредне в живота?
Можем ли да общуваме с другите, подчинени единствено на взаимно-изгодни делови взаимоотношения, без да се обвързваме с очаквания?
Добродетел ли е абсолютната честност?Финалът оставя тези въпроси без отговор.
Знаем само, че след срещата си - за добро или зло - те няма как да останат същите както перди.
This is a disturbing novel in an unfamiliar way. Jansson is highly adept here at exposing the mundane darknesses beneath small town life and everyday interactions. This is distinguished from, say, Lynchian darknesses behind the mundane in that there are no shocks or secrets to be exposed. Everything is intensely normal, just fraught with minor hypocrisies and polite ill-will, the kinds which most people must, presumably, ignore unthinkingly every day. And to have these things exposed so cynically and in such stark, crisp terms really does unsettle. In fact, it's more disturbing for its intense normalness. Impressive.
The only matter of significance to Katri is securing her beloved little brother's future.Then there's Anna Aemlin, a rich, reclusive and eccentric illustrator of children's books.
Like Katri, she is an outcast and a mystery to the rest of the villagers.
It also, like all good books do, made me yearn for this Finnish village I had never heard of before.The other thing that struck me was the quietness of the book.
Furthermore, you've left another twenty or so behind that you just have to have.Even better, the workers there, truly know books.
You just need to know the vague sense of the plot and they can point you right to the book you want.This isn't a children's book and it is very dark.
I know that we are suppose to see it as a quasi battle between the two women, but I have to wonder about the character of Mats.
I also wonder how much of this book is based on being an outside to a small community.
من هو المخادع الحقيقي ؟ من يُزين لك واقعاً أو يشوه لك صورة ما أو يحاول اقناعك أنه عليك ان لا تتقبل ا
Както казва Димитри Иванов, "...трябва да усещаш една книга, като че е писана за теб и за сега. За теб и за сега." Е, такава е "Честна измама". И разказите, и романът в нея. Както винаги е не просто книга, а работилница за идеи и концепции (в най-добрия смисъл на тази моя омразна рекламна дума концепция). Има дори някаква фантастика тука, но философска - човек, който се отделя от себе си, дама, която прави карта на взаимоотношенията между хората. И атмосферата е ...можеш да я пипнеш - плътна и трепти.
رواية جميلة مميزة لولا انني وغد حقير لا استطيع الاستمتاع بها، اصدقكم القول. ربما لأنني لا اجيد المتعة بالأعمال النسوية! او ربما العيب لا يكمن في مونلوجي الداخلي بل في الكتاب نفسه. لا اعلمتروي الكاتبة الفنلندية من أصل سويدي (توف جانسون) احداث وقعت في قرية سويدية في جوّ مفعم بالبرد والظلام والثلوج، تنسج داخل الرواية صراعاً إنسانياً يتمحور حول شخصيتين (كاتري كلينغ وآنا إميلين)، تجمعهما العزلة وتفرقهما المكانة الاجتماعية والنظرة إلى الحياة، المهم... عموماً هناك الكثير من الارانب والثلوج
It's also very funny, at times, in its dry, dark way - like an old woman wheezing in a corner over general human frailty.But as the story's winter deepens and these moments accrue, you realize that Jansson is working in very difficult territory; in the philosophical battle of wills between the two women, she refuses to grant either of them the upper hand, leaving the reader feeling particularly vulnerable, lost in the same sort of moral confusion the characters struggle through.
This is a disturbing little book on the lies we tell ourselves and the lies we tell others.
This is not a happy book.
There is a stark beauty in the prose and the setting.
Katri and Mats are orphans and Katri has a plan for a better life that involves an aging, reclusive book illustrator.
Lots of deception and lies happen and by the end the book really had me questioning why any of us do the things we do.
I read this for my in person book group and I can't wait to see what everyone else thinks.
It's all very interesting, in that dark Scandinavian way that makes these countries work so well as the setting for the crime novels of Jo Nesbo and shows like "The Killing", but "The True Deceiver" would function better as a painting depicting the dark, snow-swept Swedish town where the story takes place.
I re-read the introduction once I'd finished the book as well, though it failed to shed any deeper meaning on the story.I won't bother doing a recap other than to say this is about a girl whom I presumed, right up to the end, was psychotic and would eventually lash out in some violent act that would serve as a climax for this sexless thing.
Finurlig og fabel-aktig.
*** is a little harsh, but i couldn't give it 4 stars... saying that, i'm still undecided and keep changing my mind about this book. i wanted it to be really good, but i'm not sure that i've got what i wished for (...and that's why i don't review books - i'm rubbish at it, always have been and always will be - i'm much better at reading than writing, even my teachers used to point that out... and 25 years later nothing's changed ;))
Anna keeps to herself and is content that way, her post and necessary supplies are delivered, there is minimal disruption to her way of life and the inspiration that feeds her artistic leanings, which awaken with the Spring and her venturing into the woodland beyond her home.One of the villagers, Katri Krill, known to all as being good with numbers, one who can sniff out the slightest hint of corruption or exploitation, dreams of financial security for herself and her brother Mats.
3.5 starsA hard-edged young woman on the fringes of society decides she wants what a local children’s book illustrator (a vague, reclusive and clueless woman) has, and sets out to get it according to her own peculiar moral code.
Over the course of a long Finnish winter, both characters use each other, take from each other and perhaps become a little more like each other by the end.This novella is a quick read and an interesting one.
Still worth reading for the way it brings its settings and characters to life.
Rec'd ARC of this, just after reading Jansson's THE SUMMER BOOK (thank you, LibaryThing & NYRB).
As in THE SUMMER BOOK, the writing here is as unadorned and crystal clear as the environment in which the story is set--in this case a cold, lonely winter in a small Swedish village.
The "action" revolves around a young woman, Katri, who ingratiates herself into the solitary life of an older woman, Anna, a children's book illustrator, who lives in the largest house in the village.
NYRB is doing english-speaking readers a great favor by bringing out Jansson's non-Moomin books.
