https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13146214-because-of-low
Lovely characters, swoony moments, steamy scenes, heartwarming story - Because of Low has it all and just like in The Vincent Boys, I was spent the entire time giddy and swooning or drooling.Anyway, this is a spin off of Glines's first novel Breathe and this time Marcus is the center character here.
This guy is abso-freaking-lutely awesome, you know, good-looking, funny, charming, caring, sweet - alright, stop Eunice!
I loved how much he cared for his family and Low. He does and say the sweetest and yummiest things.
She's sweet and caring and loved her niece so much.
It was a sweet and lovely story!
Now Cage...man oh man, did i hate his whoring guts from the first page, BUT amazingly, Ms. Glines redeemed him so well, so much so that i hope she writes a book about Cage; i would LOVE to see the type of girl that he falls for and that will take him on.
[Well if you've read Beautiful Disaster by Jamie McGuire and you were one of the million people that fell hard for Travis (unfortunately i hated his guts...thought he was a nancy-boy), the way you felt for Travis is the way i feel for Marcus.] 
Congratulations, Ms. Glines, for a writing such a beautiful story AND for turning me into a HOT MESS for Marcus Hardy!
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThis cover makes me laugh. I'm not sure whether it's because the title looks like something printed out on a label maker, or because of the discount Emma Stone in the arms of a dude pouting harder than a teenager taking a MySpace pic in 2005, but it's all gold. Sadly, what lies between the covers is not, though.Abbi Glines was pretty popular about four years ago, when new adult fiction was first making waves. A lot of my friends really did
When I saw one of the author's books at the used bookstore, it seemed like the perfect opportunity to belatedly check out the hype.Marcus lives with a playboy named Cage.
One day, a girl comes to their apartment looking for Cage who isn't his normal type (which means that she doesn't have fake boobs and isn't model skinny, basically - I believe Marcus calls her "natural").
Marcus decides he wants her immediately (insta-love), tears and all, and is perplexed when Cage warns him away, claiming that Low is the girl he's going to marry once he's decided he's going to stop slutting around and commit himself.(Hmm...why does that sound familiar?
Sweet, sweet, love Abbi Glines has done it again.What is not to love about Marcus and Willow?
The protective, gorgeous gentleman and sweet, broken red head.
This spin off, of book one Tells us the story of Marcus Hardy and if you didn't fall a little bit then, in this book you most certainly will.
MarcusWillowThis is a well written, shortish tale about falling in love, mix in the right amount of angst, drama, shock twists and outright swoony scenes and that wraps up the book nicely.Where book one bored me, this little treasure was Romance at its loveliest.Enjoy ...4 stars
DNF 40%Why do I even try? “He isn’t like us Low. You know that right.” I knew what Cage was saying. Marcus was out of my league. He didn’t want me thinking there could ever be anything between me and his roommate. I was low class. Marcus was a rich kid. So, we have the Cinderella complex here. Rich boy, Poor girl, they meet and puff...Marcus is the perfect hero guy who wants to save the world. He comes from a rich family but he is really humble. He likes to earn his things and not live with his
“He isn’t like us Low. You know that right.” I knew what Cage was saying.
Rich boy, Poor girl, they meet and puff...Marcus is the perfect hero guy who wants to save the world.
He likes to earn his things and not live with his father's money.
As he doesn't want to spend family money, he shares an apartment with a friend's friend who he never met a lot before.
Low tries to take care of the little kid and when she does, she can sleep at home.
So, as time pass and we get to know how close Marcus and Low are getting close, oh wait, we don't.
Wow!!!!!!! I loved Because of Low! What a great spin off to Breathe. I’m so happy that (view spoiler)[Marcus finally got the girl and his happy ending. (hide spoiler)] The scenes between Low and Marcus were so hot and steamy! Totally swoon worthy. I think I might have a girly crush on Abbi Glines and all of her great books. :)
There are a few books I've read recently which could have used a bit of restraint when it came to how extreme the drama was going to get.
(hide spoiler)] Even with those moments, I was still more than pleased with Because of Low There were actually several quote-worthy moments that made me "awwww," but this time I'm going to opt out of posting them because this review is long enough as it is.If you don't mind a bit of drama and some intensity in a love story, this book will work fine for you.
Cage tells Marcus "DON'T touch her… Low's the girl I'm going to marry." Marcus is immediately intrigued.
Due to family drama, Low spends half her nights, in Cage's bed, and the other half at her sister's house.
Marcus is around with Low more than Cage, and they end up getting close.
Both are drawn to each other, but Marcus wants Low to start trusting and relying on him instead of Cage.
There is a lot of family drama on both Low and Marcus' side which has a big impact on the plot.
Although, there were a couple of times I wanted to smack him, Marcus is such a sweet-heart.
Re-reading this series. Marcus is still my fav!
Marcus's and Low's story!!Who couldn't like Marcus tenderness and kindness to others?And then, Low, comes for a broken family with big issues… The 2 of them get together.This book was an emotional rollercoaster, so get ready for it!
=)Low is a spin-off from Breathe, with the heartbroken Marcus taking center stage in his own love story (for the record, this book is for the mature YA, not appropriate for younger teens).
I was actually really surprised by this book, because where Marcus came across as sweet and tender in Breathe, he was bold and sexy in Low. That's not to say he isn't still sweet, but I was totally not expecting his sex appeal quotient to go up quite so much!
Living in an apartment with Cage, sexaholic friend of Preston's (from Breathe), Marcus is pretty well over Sadie and just looking to deal with school and handle family issues.
My first book of abbi glines.. and i really L♥ve it!Marcus is ♥! No boring moments from beginning till the end. I like every character in this book. i even love larissa, she's so adorable..☺The plot, lines and emotions are so real although the ending is quite predictable but i still like how the author ends it..i like that cage character was redeemed on the last part makes me want to read his story hopefully soon..☺ I so love this book that im having doubts if i will read the first book breath c
My first book of abbi glines..
I like every character in this book.
i even love larissa, she's so adorable..☺The plot, lines and emotions are so real although the ending is quite predictable but i still like how the author ends it..i like that cage character was redeemed on the last part makes me want to read his story hopefully soon..☺ I so love this book that im having doubts if i will read the first book breath coz i dont want to see marcus brokenhearted with sadie..☻☻☻ Marcus & Low are both broken by family problems but they fit for each other!♥
I was not in the mood for reading anything yesterday and I knew Abbi could get me in the mood again so I thought about reading this book that has been in my kindle forever.There wasn't too much drama, it was funny at times, I got to know a few hot guys (I am going to read about your stories later) and their romance story was also nice :)(view spoiler)[ Abbi well done with this story, I loved the way everything was connected, I wasn't expecting Larissa & Marcus to be siblings at the beginning, I liked that  (hide spoiler)]My favorite moments/quotes:"When you say worked up?""I mean, hard as a rock  Low"Things happen in life and you can't control them.
Before I can really review Low, I have to go back to the first book in the story, Breathe.
Marcus who makes his first appearance in Breathe, is now one of the main characters in Low. I actually liked him in Breathe, you could understand why he really seemed to be infatuated with Sadie.
I know I was supposed to feel sorry for Low, and the things she was going through...
Low's relationship with Cage was so unhealthy and creepy I'm not even sure where to begin...
lets try, how she constantly calls him a silly boy, whom she feels is like her brother.
Marcus and Low's story has officially become a favorite of mine (and memorable one) for the series.
The hero of the story is Marcus (a fan favorite as it appears) who readers met in the first book Breathe.
I would however recommend reading them in the series order though as you won't miss out on the characters backstory.
It has definitely become a favorite book by the author for me and I think many readers who haven't met these characters yet will agree with me.
I loved this book!How refreshing to have characters actually speak to one another and communicate.
Yes, I mean you Marcus!
I loved Marcus - totally sigh worthy and a guy that wears his heart on his sleeve.
I read it in a day because I had to finish it before returning to work so I could sit in quiet and absorb every word of this story.I read Breathe and really liked it.
This book, I loved.
The secondary characters worked really well and I'm so happy to hear Abbi Glines is writing Cages story because that's one I really want to read.
Marcus was a great character in book one, and he was even better in his own story. He's uncommonly intuitive when it comes to women, and a growly, possessive guy when it counts. Low was, of course, virginally naive and a little overly dramatic but I've come to expect that from Glines. They worked perfectly together. I'm super curious to read Cage's book.
Really loved this book! Low, Marcus, Cage... great characters! Had a nice twist in the middle and a good ending, read this one in one night.
BECAUSE OF LOW   is a very short yet incredibly sweet ya chic-lite. that starts with willow and ends ends with her.this being my first abbi glines book , i found her writing style to be simple and plot predictable.the story basically revolves around Marcus and willow (or more commonly known as low), two people who fall in love from the opposite sides of the track. Marcus's family is falling apart and when he falls in love with willow,she helps him stay strong and becomes his rock.but after a po
Marcus's family is falling apart and when he falls in love with willow,she helps him stay strong and becomes his rock.but after a point when truths get reveled and life gets difficult.
it all comes down to two choices,and Marcus can only pick one.his love or his family ?Marcus and willow have a very cliche easy relationship and the story line almost remained constant until the very end, which too remained to be predictable.this book was a definite light read,with a rather short predictable story line and sound characters.
marcus is now my favorite. hes going to be very hard to pass up. wonder if any of the other boys will pass him...
When he got his heart broken in BREATHE by Sadie, I wanted to take that poor sweet boy in and fix him.
And that is a testament to Glines' ability to write fascinating, endearing characters that refuse to be ignored.So in BECAUSE OF LOW, Marcus has moved on from the summer that broke his heart.
And let me tell you, nobody and I mean nobody, can write a bad boy like Abbi Glines.
But like Beau, you know there is a hurt, good-hearted boy beneath the swagger.
A lot of supposed bad boys in the books I read are actually jerks.
I lost my heart to Marcus in Breathe, he was gentle, loving and super protective but he just grabbed it tighter in this one, he got all alpha and HOT..what a scrumptious bloke!!!So the story begins when Marcus has to return home because his dog of a dad is cheating on his mum with a bit of fluff at work.
My heart melted over Cage's and Low's friendship!!!
So this is where the story begins with Marcus, Cage and the homeless Low....be ready for an emotional roller-coaster ride with a FAB twist in the end!!
I <3 Abbi Glines.
She seriously has major skills when it comes to writing attraction.
I feel like I am re-living those amazingly sweet, enticingly scrumptious and extremely nerve-racking first kisses and hours-long* make-out sessions.
I always love it when a writer makes you fight for the characters in a book and when they drop bombs on you.
Abbi did both in Because of Low. With all the fighting and dropping of bombs you would think it was a war book and not a YA romance.
Seriously though, great book.
*And no the "hours-long" was not suppose to say "hour".
Audiobook
I just experienced it myself.' -Willow in Because of LowIn Breathe book one in the Sea Breeze series readers get introduced to Marcus Hardy.
His new roomate Cage York.Marcus Hardy finds is home bound and ready to face the family drama after his father has an affair.
Marcus Hardy Cage's new roomate.When Marcus gets the call to let Willlow in but to not touch her he is more than intrigued.
While still on the phone with Cage Marcus is shocked when Cage announces that Willow is the girl he will marry.
5 Because of Low StarsMarcus & Willow Ahhh Willow this girl has been through enough, and what I loved most about this book was her relationship with Cage.
Now I know that wasn’t the main love interest but for Willow she knew she could always count on Cage.
Marcus was someone I loved from the first book in this series; I loved how he is with his family.
And even though I admired Cage’s relationship with Low..
I loved how Marcus loves Low. Its all-consuming and sweet it really is a great love story of love and trust.
IT'S OFFICIAL i'm in love with Abbi Glines . i LOVE reading her books and OH LALA she's getting little bolder huh?!!! ;P i had this book on my shelve since FOREVER but i was like meeh i don't wanna read it.. last night i said what the hell and i grabbed it, and seriously WHAT THE HELL , that was awesome i always loved Marcus and low is such a sweet character. and now i really can not wait to read While It Lasts witch is Cage 's story , it is gonna be epic i just know :)
~ I'm taking a small break from bodice-ripping, whips, chains and billionaires...I'm going on an Abbi Glines book binge and I am super excited!! Lisa says I could use some easy breezy lemon squeezy reads ~ I agreeeeeee BRING IT !
No sé qué tiene esta autora que hace que sus libros me enganchen y no pueda parar de leer incluso aunque quiera.
Ahora mismo tengo los ojos despidiendo chiribitas y no sé si quiera qué estoy diciendo, pero si algo tengo claro es que este libro provoca muchas emociones.Tanto Marcus como Low son dos personajes con un bagaje familiar importante y a lo largo de la novela se puede ver cómo eso les ha afectado mucho a la hora de relacionarse y confíar, sobre todo Low, cuyo único apoyo es Cage, su mejor amigo.La trama es muy simple y a medida que avanza es cada vez más obvia,Marcus es un personaje que me ha gustado a pesar de algunos ataques cavernícolas que no me han gustado tanto y los secundarios han tenido su peso en la historia.No es el mejo libro del mundo, pero definitivamente esta serie tiene algo que engancha y que hace que quieras seguir leyendo para ver qué nueva historia va a ocurrir.
3.5 starsThe second book in the Sea Breeze series brings us the story of Marcus and Willow (Low).
As the second-choice love interest he was sweet, caring and a wonderful friend to Sadie, and I was so happy when I discovered that he’d get his HEA in book 2.Marcus has been away for College but returns to Sea Breeze when his family falls apart – his father has left his mother and is having an affair with a younger woman, leaving his mother completely shattered, and his sister all alone to deal with the fallout.
