https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90892.The_Riddle_of_the_Traveling_Skull
This sort of thing might have been plausible in an Agatha Christie, but in this book it was essentially a cruel joke -- the reader is guaranteed to be in the dark until the final page."The riddle of the traveling skull", republished by McSweeney's, is apparently one of Harry Stephen Keeler's more accessible and better books.
Unfortunately Keeler, writing in the 30s, comes across as incredibly racist (and rather sexist) to modern eyes.
The plot is impossible to predict, because every few pages Keeler invents some new twist to keep things moving (and maybe to write himself out of corners).
Desde las primeras páginas queda claro lo que vas a leer: ”Porque hay que tener en cuenta que, a la sazón, yo no sabía absolutamente nada, como es natural, de Milo Payne, el misterioso inglés de habla típicamente londinense, que llevaba la gorra a cuadros, de larga visera, que popularizara Sherlock Holmes; ni sabía del “Maletín Barr”, tan parecido al mío como una salchicha vienesa de Milwaukee a otra; ni de Legga, la Araña Humana, con sus cuatro piernas y seis brazos; ni del ex presidiario Ichabod Chang, hijo de Dong Chang; ni de la fugaz poetisa Abigail Sprigge; ni del Gran Simón, con sus 2.163 botones de perlas; ni de… En resumidas cuentas, yo entonces no sabía nada de nada, ni de nadie que estuviera relacionado con el asunto del cual yo había ahora llegado a formar parte, a no ser que fuera, por casualidad, mi Némesis, Sophie Kratzenschneiderwümpel…, ¡o Sophie la Pleitista!” Es decir, puro Harry Stephen Keeler.‘El enigma del cráneo viajero’ está lleno de giros inesperados y casualidades imposibles, y de un sentido del humor un tanto extravagante, como la trama misma.
This book is terrible!
The press sheet and foreword lead me to believe Keeler was some kind of overlooked pulp genius, or crazed modernist innovator, but he is only weakly either of those things.
I can just hear Keeler stalling and repeating himself as he attempts to make word quota on his 5th book of 1934.
.Maybe he has better books, but if so, why reprint this one?
Augh.(I still have about 60 pages to go, so maybe the ending will change my mind)...In fact, it did a little.
Still a fairly terrible book, but I can see why Keeler interests people so.
This book came endorsed by McSweeneys, not necessarily a point in its favor.
But the introduction by Paul Collins was reassuring - I had read and enjoyed two of his books.
But it's not a bad yarn, and - unless you place a high value on narrative plausibility - you will likely read it all the way through, just to see what he will come up with next.
In many ways it reminded me of G.K. Chesterton's "The Man Who Was Thursday", but without all the metaphysical baggage.I quite enjoyed it, though not to the point of recommending it to others.
Una novela genial, adictiva, repleta de situaciones extravagantes que se van hilvanando de la forma en la que sólo Harry Stephen Keeler sabía hacerlo. La traducción deja bastante que desear, pero sigue resultando curiosa, a pesar de todo. Después de tanto tiempo sin leer al autor, recuperarlo con una novela así ha resultado todo un acierto. Van cinco estrellas, no a la calidad literaria, no a la profundidad psicológica de los personales, pero sí al entretenimiento.
The Riddle of the Traveling Skull (1934) is an incredible book and my sixth favorite novel of all time.* At the beginning of this story, the protagonist comes upon an oddly adorned human skull in a travel bag, and what follows is the wildly twisting investigation of the aforementioned cranial artifact.After reading eighty pages of this work, I ordered a couple of other books by Harry Stephen Keeler, and before I had reached the end of the novel, three (not inexpensive) first editions where en route to my apartment.
The Riddle of the Traveling Skull (Harry Stephen Keeler)5.
I'm usually a sucker for strange things, regardless of the level of quality.
Each of the paragraphs in the first chapter have so much strange, useless information that does nothing but confuse.
I read up on this author, and his reputation has been bolstered as a sort of crazy literary genius; breaking all the rules of modern mystery stories.
I even read an article where he was compared to Thomas Pynchon.
Whoever wrote that article never read Thomas Pynchon.
Oh, I don't have to read it?
Oh, I don't have to read it?
Keeler's often hailed as being an absurdist genius. He's known for his "webwork" mysteries, which start with multiple threads that tie together by the end. One reviewer claims that Keeler is the epitome of the mystery genre writer-- that the bizarro coincidences are what define mystery fiction, as opposed to the plain-jane, mundane way that most nonfictional crimes take place. This book was completely bizarre and unfathomable-- but highly entertaining. I plan to read more Keeler in the future.
Long out of print or relegated to small presses, the work of Harry Stephen Keeler has faded into obscurity. This is the triumphant return of the silliest, the most convoluted, the best godawful writer of pulp mysteries the world has ever seen. Someone who liked Keeler once said that all of his books read as if they were translated from the original Choctaw. Screamo the Clown. Legga the Human Spider. I couldn’t make this stuff up – it has to be seen to be believed.
This book gives me a special kind of pleasure.
Dutton should've re-titled this: "The Riddle of the Holyshitwhatthefuck"
Every chapter ends in such a way to leave the reader breathless and flipping the page as quickly as possible to see what new and unlikely twist Keeler is going to spring on his unsuspecting hero, Clay Calthorpe.Poor Clay.
Just know that in addition to those gems described in the quotation above, we also have a love triangle that inspires a murderous attack, a large sum of money embezzled from a bank, a ventriloquist's dummy, a pilfered safe, a train wreck, and the fictional country of San Do Mar, where no one can be extradited for a crime--any crime from stealing $100 from the till to cold-blooded murder.I have to confess, when I got to the end of the story and All Was Revealed--I still couldn't tell you what really happened.
But the way he tells us--I don't know if I'm supposed to believe him.
After reading a bit about Harry Stephen Keeler's reputation as an author, I went into it expecting something truly bizarre and outré.
But what I got instead appeared—at first—to be a fairly run-of-the-mill pulp mystery, which I enjoyed immensely even though (or, if I'm honest, exactly because) it was wildly overplotted, peppered with absurd twists and propped up on a precarious tower of improbable coincidences.It was indeed bizarre, but not in the grandiose way I was expecting.
My wife reports that in the last hour of reading, I said "WHAT?!" aloud seventeen times.
Was Keeler making a joke or just a punchline?
The black grave-marker in front of which bore the bright white numerals '49.' And, my lower jaw hanging open, I read the inscription carved upon that granite face.Which inscription ran:'Here lies the famousO MING LEEThe Girl with Four Legs and Six ArmsKnown to the ProfessionasLEGGA, THE HUMAN SPIDERBorn Canton, ChinaDied Canton, Ohio1917 - 1937Erected by the Chinese of America.'I passed a hand weakly over my forehead.No. 49.3753 Gardendale Street.And here was Miss Lee - Miss O.M. Lee!Blankly, for I was still fuddled, I turned and read the words chiseled on a small gravestone, alabaster white, that seemingly marked a tiny new-born baby's grave.They read:'b.
TOM DOWLING18 inches high20 pounds in weightRest in peace, General!'What the - The red-bristle-face man was coming down the steps of his aerie.
1935'The red-bristle-faced man was now on me.'Om lak to halp yu elf yu vassen findin' grey vat yu lokking for.
His plots consist of one jaw-droppingly coincidence after another; his writing reads like a drunken translation, filled with clangorous smiles and characters spouting loopy "dialects" that, though they be ostensibly German or Cockney, seem to originate primarily in Keeler's own cracked imagination.
In a Keeler novel, you're bound to find yourself solving a murder with a Sherlock holmes detective who is in fact a retarded janitor (The Green Jade Hand, 1930) or pondering a suspect in the form of the "Flying Strangler Baby" (1936)...this being a midget who, dressed as an adorable little tyke, swoops down to garrote his victim from a miniature helicopter.I picked up this book last summer and found it utterly impossible to read--it was all over the place--but somehow I feel like the last few books I've read are putting me in a good reading mood to go back to this one.
I knew that Keeler was an eccentric writer, to put it mildly, so I was somewhat prepared for the dazzling mishmash that is this novel.
For most of the book there seems to be a somewhat logical story in process, although one filled with wildly improbable coincidences, pages of bewildering backstory, and digressions on candy-making, weaponry, brain surgery and more.
I probably could try to retrace the twisted logic employed to arrive at the novel's final sentence, but suspect it would be an exercise in futility.
"Poet.
Blackmailer!
Murderer!"Harry Stephen Keeler is likely the only writer to use the word "congeries" in a descriptive paragraph only to have one of his protagonists utter the same word three paragraphs later.
Elaborate disquisitions on trepanation join mini-lectures on how to achieve maximum convexity in designer handbags.
Litigious missionaries cross paths with candy factory detectives, and candy factory detectives with dimwitted janitors who win jigsaw puzzle championships.
The results are hardly politically correct, but that's not the only way Keeler teases his reader.
I'll take the Keeler stuntplane to San Do Mar for a return trip, thanks.
This is fun to read!
I read it instead.
When I got it I didn't realize the author had somewhat of a cult following.
This is also not surprising, given how prolific the guy was, pumping out several mysteries every year.
We're mostly invited to accompany the normal protagonist who stumbles into the mystery.
It was written in and takes place during 1930s Chicago, and the author drops lots of local references, which at times seems gratuitous (for instance, naming street addresses and the neighborhoods in which they lie).
Nonetheless, fun for a Chicagoist to read.
While there were definitely some passages that seemed to drag due to the author's habit of having characters give detailed, long-winded exposition, it was worth it to push to the finish and experience in full a novel by this strange man.
According to the Collins Library edition, this is his 'best-loved work' and I haven't decided whether or not to ever read another Keeler novel, despite the tempting plot descriptions found at the back of this book.
Maybe I wanted something a little more sinister?
My copy is, of course, the McSweeney's reprint, so I came to this mystery expecting something hip and weird.
I read the introduction, so I knew Keeler was going to be strange.
The narrator blithely postulates solutions to the mystery, then learns that he has ridiculously misinterpreted the situation, then, without missing a beat, simply devises a new solution that may well be sillier than the last.
I want to read more Keeler.
Unfortunately, it seems that his books are collectors' items that sell for ridiculous amounts on eBay. I'll have to keep my eyes open in used bookstores.
I'd recommend this for people who go through books fast, not those who get stuck with one book for a longer period of time.
Sure, it was entertaining...
It was pretty silly and I appreciated lots of what other people commented on in their reviews of this book, but I definitely got bored with it and wanted it to end.
It took me a while to get through because I hate NOT finishing books but I just wasn't excited about it.
Then again, I guess I read it more for the fact that it sounded silly and entertaining than for the expectation that it would be amazing, so maybe I shouldn't complain!
Harry Stephen Keeler writes novels like nobody else; random plot elements are thrown in on every page, and though you might be hard pressed to understand how the narrator finds himself in a cemetery for deceased circus performers, you'll definitely enjoy the ride.
Keeler's also a big Chicago booster, as his meticulous description of the exact street address of every location in the novel will attest.
He's described as the Ed Wood of mystery authors, but even that description does not do justice to the hodgepodge of words that awaits you in this novel.
A gripping little mystery that had me glued to its pages until the puzzle began to unravel and then my interest waned.
I guess the riddle is really all there is to this story.
That, and the writing.From the introduction:Keeler is sometimes called the best worst writer ever -- the Ed Wood of the mystery genre.
His...writing reads like a drunken translation, filled with clangorous similes and characters spouting loopy "dialects" that, though they may be ostensibly German or Cockney, seem to originate primarily in Keeler's own cracked imagination.
But the combined effect of his writing is, strange to say, joyous.- Paul Collins
Unintentionally hilarious, ridiculously complicated mystery. The work of a mad genius, the character names alone are worth the price of admission. The overblown descriptions and stilted dialog had me laughing from the first line. A warning: sensitive readers may be upset by the derogatory terms used for non-whites, that were common then, but if you can get beyond that it's a amusingly enjoyable read.
3.5 StarsWhile I really enjoyed this book, the ending left me a little confused. I know some readers find the amount of em dashes in this book annoying, but I felt like this book was quirky, and the em dashes helped to add to its quirkiness.
this is one of the most confusing books i've ever read, and at the same time, utterly hilarious & entertaining. H S Keeler is considered the Ed Wood of mystery writing, the "best worst writer", and he lived up to the hype. Really, just a really good time.
the greatest observation lies in the preface: in reality, Occam's Razor generally applies. In the world of mystery fiction, to be rational and sane is to be hyper paranoid and conspiratorial. HSK kind of goes above and beyond.no really, don't actually read this
Put simply, this is not a great book, but it was thoroughly enjoyable. It helps to not get uptight about things not making sense, because they basically don't - the ending in particular is still baffling me a few days after finishing it.Even still, I'd recommend it as a silly quick read.
McSweeney's has a knack for publishing/endorsing very distinct books from the rest of the industry. This book certainly sustains that reputation, with its traditional mystery novel style. It was a pretty quick read, and I found it pretty amusing.
Never in my life have I read a book filled with this many em dashes, but I still enjoy reading it! I might use the em-dash technique with my next NaNoWriMo novel if I need to reach my daily word count goals. :0)
