https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18053.Meet_Mr_Mulliner
I have returned to this collection again and again, whenever I was feeling down in the dumps, and left with an uplifted heart.Mr. Mulliner is a regular at "Angler's Rest" (a country pub), a "man who has never told a lie in his life", according to his own confession.
As Mulliner narrates the stories in an even voice to his spellbound listeners in Angler's Rest, we too forget the thin dividing line between truth and fiction: after all, does truth matter in front of a good story?
This 1927 collection of short stories, based around tales told at a local pub about a family of young men named Mulliner, is fun and light-hearted as almost all of Wodehouse's work, but you can see him shedding some of the sappy stuff in favor of the funny.
Even if you're a romance fan, the old "Jane...", "James...", "Jane!", "James!" replete with longing looks routine is so outdated as to be unintentionally hilarious...for a moment, then the reading of it gets tedious right quick.
Having said that, if you are a Wodehouse fan and you've exhausted all of the Jeeves and Blandings stuff, get on this Mulliner thing!
Yet another charming expedition into the mind of PG Wodehouse, this time concentrating on Mr Mulliner. But not just one Mr Mulliner! Each story contains a different Mr Mulliner ( a different relation to the Mr Mulliner who is telling the story ) and his exploits. It's highly amusing, wonderfully written and a joy to indulge in. As Stephen Fry so fittingly said 'you don't analyse such sunlit perfection, you just bask in its warmth and splendour.'
There's all the expected wit and wordplay and antic incident, but there's an edge here not found in the typical Wodehouse jeu d'esprit.
The most excellent Nandakishore Varma highly, highly recommended Meet Mr. Mulliner, so I, of course, immediately got it.
Nandakishore and I both share an adoring regard of P.G. Wodehouse’s Bertie and Jeeves stories and novels.
But I read the first two stories in Meet Mr. Mulliner, a short-story collection, and they were sooooo very predictable.
I promise myself — and Nandakishore — that I will get back to the book when I have a bit more time.
(With school about to start, I’ve got quite few professional educator books to get through in the next few weeks.) But for now, I’ve pulled the plug.
an absolute pleasure to read. As usual is the case with P.G. Wodehouse titles this collection of short stories portraying the hilarious adventures of various members of the Mulliner family is an absolute mood booster.
Tall tales told in taverns are a favorite genre for me and when P.G. Wodehouse turns his hand to it, especially when read by Jonathan Cecil, how can I resist?These are wonderful little stories, each of which contain the essence of plot points used in Wodehouse's later novels.
In a way these early short stories are like his Pickwick Papers, showing us the seeds of what will later become recurring themes and what will define his comic greatness later.
I especially loved Honeysuckle Cottage, Wodehouse's haunted house story which features a young man in a house which is forcing him to an inevitable fate which we long for him to escape ...
Reading Wodehouse is unlike reading any other book.
It's pure delight from start to finish.
It's a journey into a different world.
In this case, this world is made up of Mulliners - all kinds of them.
Uncles, nephews, brothers, distant relations, all Mulliners, and each with a tale to tell.
These are told by one Mulliner at the local pub, the Angler's Rest, where you can also be served my the lady with the picturesque name of Miss Postlethewaite.
Each one is hilarious since the Mulliners have a knack for getting into all kinds of trouble.
Or even just spending an evening at Angler's Rest.
En esta ocasión tenemos a Mr Mulliner que acodado en la barra del pub de turno nos va presentado a través de diversos relatos a distintos miembros de su famila: Los Mulliner.Evidentemente y como ya es habitual en las historias de este autor inglés, siempre hay equívocos, situaciones hilarantes y por supuesto, final feliz.Lo que más me gusta de Wodehouse es su fina ironía y su capacidad para decir mucho sin decir demasiado.
Algunas de las situaciones que se viven en estas historias me han recordado a nuestros Jardiel Poncela y Mihura.Aún así, prefiero sus novelas y entre sus personajes, creo que Jeeves y Bertie Wooster son mis favoritos aunque, afortunadamente, aún me quedan muchas de sus historias y novelas por descubrir.
I had been in the mood for some summer beach read type literature and Wodehouse fits the specs.
Churchmen play a more prominent role in these stories, as one of the Mulliners is a clever young minister himself, adept at bailing his superiors out of the jams that their kooky, undignified behaviors get them into.
In another story, a pretentious, poetic young Mulliner is forced to put his skills to work for his uncle's pickled foods business, with entertaining results.
I am not a Wodehouse fanatic so there are many of this works that I have not read, but this seems like one of his better collections to me.
Laugh till you Drop.. And then laugh some more. Wodehouse never disappoints. And Mulliner is as good as Jeeves. Top notch stuff.
In the bar-parlour of the Angler’s Rest the efficient barmaid Miss Postlewaite was asking who was the greatest of all the Wodehouse comic creations.
‘But what of Mr Mulliner?’ asked a stranger in the corner, ‘surely the Mulliner family crave you inclusion?’.
The bar was undecided and the conversation moved on to weather Elvis Costello’s new album was as good as his early work.We first meet the Mulliners in this book and the jury is still out if they can be considered amongst the Wodehouse sagas as Mr Mulliner himself merely frames the stories and the family motif is really a mechanism for a short story writer not requiring ten new surnames every new volume.

Ludwig Wittgenstein said that 'Honeysuckle Cottage,' which is the final story in this collection, was the funniest thing he’d ever read.
Jeeves will disapprove of Bertie's fashion choice and will have forced Bertie out of it by the end of the story--but it is what he achieves within the boundaries of that formula that make him so excellent), these tales seemed obvious and the framing device that supposedly linked them added nothing either to the book as a whole or the stories themselves.There's fun to be had here and nice ideas--Wodehouse is never lacking those--but the wit, the core element that makes reading and rereading Wodehouse so marvelous, that quick, precise, unrelenting wit, is not on display in this collection, maybe was not fully matured when he wrote this.Overall, entertaining enough, a quick read, but it just made me want to be reading his better works.As for the Overlook Press edition, an excellent edition.
I'd read the the other two Mr. Mulliner collections before Meet Mr. Mulliner, the aptly named first one in the series, though the order of the Mr. Mulliner books is less important since they are essentially a series of short stories.
Mr. Mulliner tells these all as frame stories in his local pub, always featuring a distant relative who has had some sort of adventure.
This is typical PG Wodehouse, full of offbeat and humorous stories of relatives getting themselves into and out of trouble.
In general I don't like the Mr. Mulliner series as much as Blandings or Jeeves, but these were still fine examples of PG Wodehouse's style and humor.
The first of three collections of tales featuring Mr Mulliner. Mulliner is a regular at the bar of the 'Angler’s Rest', where he regales fellow drinkers with stories drawn from the lives of his many relatives – such as the ‘curious adventures’ of his chemist brother Wilfred who gains his true love with the aid of Mulliner’s Reduc-o. As a devotee of Jeeves and Wooster, for me the Mulliner books are the next best thing; they have a similar lightness of touch and leave me feeling that all is well with the world. Excellent if you need bucking up.
This was my first Wodehouse and I am a convert! That was fun! After reading more 'serious' novels such as Camus, it was refreshing to read a quick book where I would be chortling to me every few pages. It's all a bit silly, and no it was not philosophical, didn't change my world view, didn't make me think about life and all of life's meaning, wasn't full of flowery language, but that's what makes it great. I am going to be interspersing more serious and hefty books with Wodehouses :)
Recently I read my first Gordon Korman book on threat of being kicked out of the family. As I was giggling, chortling and laughing explosively out loud while reading "Meet Mr. Mulliner," I realized that P.G. Wodehouse is Gordon Korman for adults!
Excellent. Finished it in 1980, and then again in 2010. Just fun, always fun.
My mom buys me Wodehouse books (and Maupin too) when I need a laugh. Thanks, Mom.
Narrator Jonathan Cecil is by far the best!!!
Clever, witty, easy to read short stories!
Wodehouse may be best remembered today for his Jeeves and Wooster and Blandings Castle novels and stories--and those are definitely well worth remembering--but this book is a reminder that the author was capable of more than discussions of eccentric rich people who didn't want to be married, although there can certainly be found that sort of story as well, at least in part.In terms of its structure, this book is a loose collection of nine short stories that are told with the same narrator, Mr. Mulliner.
He held George in a vice-like grip and drew him into a recess of the platform.
‘I've been wanting to talk to you for a long time," said the stranger, genially.
‘‘Huh-huh-have you ?’ said George.
‘Yes. I want your opinion of humansacrifices.’George said he didn't like them.
George said it was hard to explain.
‘Well, I think you're wrong,’ said the Emperor.
‘I know there’s a school of thought growing up that holds your views, but I disapprove of it.
I hate all this modern advanced thought.
This is the 2nd novel by Wodehouse I’ve read – inspired by Faith Sullivan’s “Goodnight, Mr. Wodehouse.” I enjoyed this more than “Love Among the Chickens.” The opening story about a man who stutters every time he wants to ask a girl to marry him is a hoot (doesn’t make fun of stuttering – just puts our hero in a weird situation) and the closing story of a man who inherits his aunt’s home, only to find it’s haunted by good, not evil, are darn clever.
I think my problem with Wodehouse is that while it’s very well written and witty and at times, hilarious, is also so very very British.
G. Wodehouse, this is the first collection (other than the above-named anthology, of course) of non-Jeeves & Wooster short stories I've read, and they're just as delightful as Wodehouse's more famous creations.
The basic premise is that these are stories related by the titular character in the bar-parlour for fishing enthusiasts called the Angler's Rest.
Like the first person narrations of the Jeeves and Wooster stories, this style gives a sense of comfort and camaraderie with the narrator, who seems like a thoroughly nice and sympathetic person, and because of that you, the reader, sympathize too with the hapless members of his extended family through all their improbable adventures and troubles.
The stories were presented as the reflections of a Mr. Mulliner who is a patron of a local pub telling interesting stories of his relatives.
Of course they were ridiculous by intention, and sometimes only moderately funny, but the final story, Honeysuckle Cottage, was so clever and well-told that it brought this book up from three to four stars.
The penultimate story, The Romance of a Bulb Squeezer, was also memorable and funny.
Normally one would tire of the same sort of humor in story after story, but these last two made me feel more than a little in favor of reading more of the same series.
Nine comic short stories from the 1920s about the adventures of the Mulliner family, as told by Mr. Mulliner, the overbearing raconteur of Angler's Rest, the village pub. Evelyn Waugh wrote that Wodehouse "made a world for us to live in and delight in" and he was right - this idyllic British world of timid curates, stammering crossword puzzle enthusiasts, and other lovesick young men is an absolute delight, each clever story a gem, and "Mulliner's Buck-u-Uppo" and "Honeysuckle Cottage" are, for me, as brilliantly funny as anything Wodehouse ever wrote.
Super funny! I loved it.I've at least found a new favorite drunk scene in the short story "The Story of William." While listening to William's hijinks, my 10 year-old daughter exclaimed, "This story is so funny, it's going to make people want to get drunk!" And I'm pretty sure my kids and I are going to be trying to popularize the idiom that William coined: "What was good enough for a duck who owned half Illinois is good enough for me."
