https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22299763-crooked-kingdom
Before I start my review, can we just take a minute to admire this beautiful piece of art featuring my favorites:   Source“I will have you without armour, Kaz Brekker. Or I will not have you at all.”This review contains *spoilers*.The wait for this grandiose sequel has been all-consuming, I've been thinking about the Dregs for months and months now, so getting back into their lives has been one of the most rewarding experiences.The book opens on Wylan still wearing Kuwei Yul-Bo’s features since
Or I will not have you at all.”This review contains *spoilers*.The wait for this grandiose sequel has been all-consuming, I've been thinking about the Dregs for months and months now, so getting back into their lives has been one of the most rewarding experiences.The book opens on Wylan still wearing Kuwei Yul-Bo’s features since Nina didn’t trust herself with her powers now.
Damn you, Kaz. You know, speaking of which, Wylan finding out that his mother was still alive and in an insane asylum because of rotten Van Eck, made me want to string his father up in a barren field and let the vultures have at him, to quote Jesper.But seriously that whole situation made my heart race.
That’s the problem with Ketterdam, Jesper thought as they stumbled uncertainly through the dark. Trusting the wrong person can get you killed. What's that down there on the ground, you say? Oh, it's just my heart after Bardugo callously ripped it out *sob*Seriously, this book was such a crazy ride. The jump in quality from the Grisha trilogy to Six of Crows and Crooked Kingdom is just astounding. These books have Bardugo's compelling style all over them, and yet they are so much more complex, r
Oh, it's just my heart after Bardugo callously ripped it out *sob*Seriously, this book was such a crazy ride.
As a person who doesn't love multiple perspectives, especially more than two, I'm amazed at how the author manages to juggle so many diverse characters and make me care about them all.Crooked Kingdom is a beast of a book - my hardcover would make a nice murder weapon - and yet the action and tension never run dry.
It's a cliche to compare a book to a rollercoaster but that's exactly what this felt like - highs and lows of emotions, equal parts humorous, sexy, entertaining, dark, violent, romantic and gritty.The stakes just keep getting bigger.
UGHHHHH I NEEEEDDD MORRRREEEEEE
HOW DARE YOU LEIGH
Review/discussion: https://youtu.be/aFX-hrVHFusMy favourite part of reading this was that as I took review notes every time I wrote Kaz it autocorrected to Kazoo This freaking book oh my goodness. I LOVED IT, even more than the first one actually. I adore this characters and I must see them again. A Nina spin off perhaps? YES PLEASE.
“No mourners.No funerals.” Let me tell you a story about a girl I know.For the first time in her life, she got a job, a great job, and she was happy about it. There was only one huge drawback: there was no time to read. Only stolen moments and a few pages a day, just to keep in touch with the essence of magic only words can offer. One cloudy morning, while she was in the bus to work, reading, a scene came. You know which one. There was a gunshot. A kiss. And then silence. Deafening silence. But
Let me tell you a story about a girl I know.For the first time in her life, she got a job, a great job, and she was happy about it.
I loved how we spent so much time inside the heads of the main characters, but yet there were so many things we didn't fully know that managed to surprise us and resulted in muffled screams of triumph (or terror, there was enough insecurity and terror for a lifetime).
Let me finish this story about a girl I know.She wished for a happier ending.
COMPLETELY SPOILER-FREE REVIEW:First thing first, meet Kaz Brekker's crew:5 REASONS WHY CROOKED KINGDOM IS THE BEST SEQUEL EVER#1 Storytelling at its bestThis book will literally keep you on the edge of your seat, your toes curling and your heart racing.
Now all I can do is re-read it to find all those details that I missed when I read it for the first time and hope that this is not the last novel by Leigh Bardugo set in Grisha world.MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG 
No funerals." to Kaz and his crew in CROOKED KINGDOM!I can't wait to have this book in my hands!
And with Kaz, Inej, Wylan, Jesper, Nina and Matthias, it's like being hit with a motherfucking tsunami.
(Especially my precious cinnamon roll Wylan, adding his POV was the greatest thing to happen to this book ♡)In terms of plot, hoooo boy did shit go down!
Had it been Kaz, Inej or Wylan in his place (three favourites of mine), I know I wouldn't have been too happy with the way she handled it.
All I can do now is hope to live till time machines exist, perhaps then I could go back and experience it all over again.*lets deep breath out*____________________I...I need a moment.
Like they're just tiny things and obviously didn't stop me from (A) rating this book ALL THE STARS, and (B) putting it on my "best of the year" shelf so afjdkslafd cAN YOU NOTICE HOW MUCH I LOVED IT YAS?Anyway.
Anyway, SO GLAD THEY SAILED SO WELL.And I'm also super happy about how Kaz and Inej turned out because they did not end up in each other's arms professing undying love.
"Why is he looking at me this way?""Kaz is wondering if he should keep you alive," said Jesper.
LEIGH BARDUGO IS A RELENTLESS DEMJIN!!! This was my first thought when I finished to read “Crooked Kingdom” and after thinking about it, I decided to leave it at that! It’s true! This amazing woman gave me all the feels and played me like a fiddle! There were so many twists and turns that my head actually started to spin and whenever I thought something would be alright, everything,  literally everything  changed once again! How did you do this Leigh? How can you be such a talented manipulator?
;-)”Has anyone noticed this whole city is looking for us, mad at us, or wants to kill us?”“So?” said Kaz.“Well, usually it’s just half the city.”The characters:” She thought of Jesper toying with his guns, Nina squeezing the life from a man with the flick of a wrist, Kaz picking a lock in his black gloves.
Still, I loved how strong Inej became, how she decided that she’d lead another life and would dedicate it to hunt the slave traders that took her away from her family!
=((I’m mourning for the man Matthias could have become, for the wasted potential and for the boy that never got a chance to truly love!
What went wrong the first time:1) The plot was very different than what i had on mind.
I wanted it to be grander than just Kaz and his greed.
2) The hype!
Too much hype is a huge turn off for me.
Always.3) Got spoiled about the ending & apparently i wasn't the only one.
Some fangirl didn't like the way Leigh wrapped things up, so she decided to protect us (SoC fans) from the cruel faith that was waiting for us.
Bitch, what?!This time i'm going in with an open mind.
Work your magic, Kaz Brekker.
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best YA fantasy & science fiction category 2016! But wasn't that what every girl dreamed? That she'd wake and find herself a princess? Or blessed with magical powers and a grand destiny? Maybe there were people who lived those lives. Maybe this girl was one of them. But what about the rest of us? What about the nobodies and the nothings, the invisible girls? We learn to hold our heads as if we wear crowns. We learn to wring magic from the ordinary.
When the world owed you nothing, you demanded something of it anyway.if that isn't downright anthemic, then i didn't learn a thing from 80's music...and i'm gonna say it - i know this is intended as a duology, but COME ON!
what i want is more (view spoiler)[inej (hide spoiler)] (spoiler tagged in case you don't wanna know who makes it outta this one alive.)i must confess, i'd forgotten some of the things that happened in Six of Crows, specifically the parts involving wylan and kuwei yul-bo, and i started this book a little confused.
She's only gone and done it again! Fantastic
I know we frown upon picking favorite books here, but you know what? This is my favorite book of all time and y'all can leave. Maybe there were people who lived those lives. Maybe this girl was one of them. But what about the rest of us? What about the nobodies and the nothings, the invisible girls? We learn to hold our heads as if we wear crowns. We learn to wring magic from the ordinary. That was how you survived when you weren’t chosen, when there was no royal blood in your veins. When the wo
I love the twisty and creative plot, I love the morally grey characters, I love the group dynamics and banter, I love the engaging writing, I love all three of the romance plots (yes, I just lost all my credibility as an unromantic.).
Kaz gets even more of a human side in this book, which comes out through his relationships with Inej, Jesper, Wylan, and even Nina.
Jesper and Wylan were a vaguely cute ship for most of book one until that one line at the end where Leigh Bardugo decided to start breaking my heart in two.
1.) Six of Crows ★★★★  “Maybe there were people who lived those lives. Maybe this girl was one of them. But what about the rest of us? What about the nobodies and the nothings, the invisible girls? We learn to hold our heads as if we wear crowns. We learn to wring magic from the ordinary.”  First and foremost, can we talk about the diversity and representation in this book?- Main characters are POC.- LGBTQ main characters.- Disabled main characters. - Body positivity.- Abusive family dynamics. -
- Trauma survivors (rape, abuse, loss.)- Addictions (drug withdrawal and gambling.)- Learning disabilities.- Human trafficking awareness!And Leigh Bardugo does all of this in a way that doesn't feel exploitative.
Again, you'll be able to follow everything in these books, but you will get major spoilers for the Grisha trilogy, since they share the same world and many of the characters make cameos in Crooked Kingdom!
From page one, I was prepared to say goodbye to Kaz. It seemed so likely, especially with the Grisha trilogy ending, but it never came.
Kaz and Inej are relationship goals, and Leigh Bardugo is writing goals.
MY VIDEO REVIEW IS NOW LIVE: https://youtu.be/ehlUs9b3JZsThat was INCREDIBLE!I don't have the words to describe how absolutely perfect this is.
Hands down the best book I've read this year and one of the best books I've EVER read.I loved the first book, but Crooked Kingdom took the bones of Six of Crows and gave them life.
Nothing has ever rivaled my love for The Night Circus, but Crooked Kingdom might just top it.
Full video review to come!
They remember the people who feed them, who are kind to them.
And it all comes so natural and feels so real.Characters:I love my Crows.
To be honest, it took me way longer to read this book than I thought it would.
One moment I'm thinking about Matthias's amazing character developement, turn the page and bam he gets shot.
On one hand this subplot had lots of potential, on the other hand it was a bit overwhelming and the book would have worked just as well or maybe even better without.2.
It wasn't perfect, but pretty damn close.Find more of my books on Instagram
Leigh Bardugo's stories are masterful. I'm such a slow reader with a mountainous TBR, so to have read ALL FIVE of her books is a huge sentiment in my life. I love the Grisha world so much and welcome any and all additions to it. Also, GIMME A TV SHOW WITH THESE CHARACTERS. This world is so epic.
I can't decide if it was anticlimactic or if I just didn't want that to happen.Other random things I liked:- Inej meets up with Celaena Sardothien Jr.- Nina's interesting new power- Zoya and Genya are back!!!- Leigh Bardugo's writing is amazing- the awesome world- all of the action scenes!- that scene by the piano with Kuwei...
Maybe I'm just desperately hoping for a Nikolai book/series, but I felt like there were a ton of casual comments about Ravka thrown in here that could lead into an awesome spinoff.
I still can't believe that I almost wish I didn't read it, because I can't forget that while I did like it, Crooked Kingdom : Yep, that's Kaz. Hear me out : it's no secret that I have a soft spot for cunning and ruthless thieves who may or may not be hiding their vulnerabilities.
I wouldn't have rated Crooked Kingdom a three if there weren't slices of AWESOMENESS to balance what I didn't like : His chapters were, shockingly, part of my favorites.
(in the Grisha's world, I know, smartass) Trying to picture Kaz or Nina or MATTHIAS as 17s years old makes my head ache.For more of my reviews, please visit:
Don't ask me who's my favourite, I love them all (ok it's inej BUT ITS A CLOSE THING)This book literally brought me to tears multiple times which NEVER HAPPENS, and it actually made me more emotional the second time through.
(view spoiler)[ on Kaz and Inej, I loved their ending.
I LOVED his and Wylan's relationship (obviously)But Jesper just dealt with and overcame so much, his character development was ??
(view spoiler)[OH GOD WHEN THEY BEAT HIM UP AND IT'S LIKE "WYLAN WASN'T KAZ OR INEJ.
Honestly, I didn’t have high expectations for Six of Crows before starting it; I’ve learned over the past few years that most books being overly hyped tend to let me down, so I adjusted my expectations and decided to read it just to say I had.
(Or maybe I should just speak for myself.) The depth of these characters are something I haven’t seen in most YA I’ve read; the quality of writing is high and these books aren’t just trashy fluff produced to “keep teens in the library and off the street”.
It's a group of people coming together, brought together by this heist, but which eventually leads to them accepting each other, forming a bond that is stronger than your circumstance, your background, even though the world is set on putting them against one another.
Leigh Bardugo took her time exploring the characters and making the readers feel beyond invested; they became a part of you.
When I wasn't reading, my heart and mind were with those characters.
Or should I say Leigh Bardugo?!
And to know there's always hope.Leigh Bardugo has blessed the world of literature with these books.
‘no mourners, no funerals.’did you mean: (view spoiler)[five mourners, one funeral.  (hide spoiler)]hahaha....ha ha....h [slowly fades into nothingness]anyway it’s 1 year later and here comes the memory I thought I had successfully suppressed!! I'm really excited to not severely hate myself every time I make the conscious decision to remember that ending but I swear the sour memory is still keeping me here in the salt pentagram Leigh Bardugo has surrounded my house inhonestly?? fuck. my feelings
‘no mourners, no funerals.’did you mean: (view spoiler)[five mourners, one funeral. 
 (hide spoiler)]hahaha....ha ha....h [slowly fades into nothingness]anyway it’s 1 year later and here comes the memory I thought I had successfully suppressed!! I'm really excited to not severely hate myself every time I make the conscious decision to remember that ending but I swear the sour memory is still keeping me here in the salt pentagram Leigh Bardugo has surrounded my house inhonestly?? fuck. my feelings don't deserve to be dragged into hermitage with me. free them to seek romance in Paris, preferably with Kaz Rietveld
things i need in order to survive: air, food and water, this book. this book obviously being the most important item on that list. wow. i will tell you what, i must have been a saint in another life because i do not feel worthy of this book. i laughed, i cried, i yelled, i loved, i cheered, i swooned, i died. i felt every emotion humanly possible. i am so grateful to live in a world where this duology exists. <3↠ 5 stars
Behold the beautiful cover!!!Title: EMPIRE OF CROWS We've been Kaz Brekkered it's actually CROOKED KINGDOMOhhhhh I like love it!THOSE LAST FEW CHAPTERS OF SIX OF CROWS I just can't cope, there aren't words for how much I need book 2, it's been over a week since I read SoC and I still can't get over it!This book has ruined all others, where do I throw my money for the next one?
My last read of 2017.🙆🏻♀
My last read of 2017.🙆🏻‍♀️
Like gosh, Leigh Bardugo is a fucking star.
Leigh Bardugo is the master of dialogue… and it’s even better when it’s Kaz and Nikolai speaking so maybe just give me a whole book of the two of them talking or better yet, give me a series about them taking over the world together….
I found myself thinking a million times throughout this duology, “Holy shit, Kaz is so damn smart!” and by that of course, I mean, holy shit, Leigh Bardugo is a fucking genius and I will follow her to the ends of the earth if it meant she would never stop writing these beautifully crafted stories.
And Kaz is one of those characters where you would like to wander his inner thoughts for hours.
I understand that the word "loved" is used one time to many when I describe my feelings towards books, but the word like is simply not okay.
Hence my LOVE for nithias, in the last hundred pages I had to close the book, open it again, reread the last few pages I had read, close the book again and crouch into a corner, too numb to even sob like a baby.
I got rushed to the hospital bc of how painfully good this was the second time around. My friends can verify they were all telling me to die faster.
