https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127712.Point_of_Impact
Only, the ones who plan to set him up, don't know Bob Lee. If you've seen the movie Shooter, it's based on this novel.
While there are "fairly" major differences in the book and movie, I suspect anyone who likes one will like the other.
I'm a shooter and I suppose that shooters might be slightly more prone to like the book, but I truly believe anyone who likes action novels will enjoy it.
Enjoy.Since I wrote this I got all the Bob Lee books...
That one is I, Sniper which is book #6 in the Bob Lee Swagger series.
I had read the novel Hot Springs by Stephen Hunter several years ago and had been pleasantly suprised by the quality of the work.
I realized that the movie was based on the novel, "Point of Impact" also by Stephen Hunter but beyond that I discovered the two were related in a unique way.
The main character in "Hot Springs" was Earl Swagger (with at least three books in that series) while the protagonist of "Point of Impact" is his son, Bob Lee Swagger, the lead character in a seperate series.
This is the first of the Bob Lee Swagger novels and what a character!
3 Things not to do:Tug on Superman's capeSpit into the windMess with Bob Lee SwaggerA wild ride from start to finish. Make sure your seatbelts are fastened and your hands are inside the vehicle at all times! I thought J Carson Black's Cyril Landry was tough, but he is a wimp compared to Bob Lee! A must read for fans of Thrillers!
হটাৎ মনে হল পুরানো বই গুলা সব রিভিশন দেওয়া দরকার।কারন মাথার ভিতর থেকে অনেক কিছুই হারিয়ে যাচছে। অনুবাদের মান নিয়ে যখন পড়েছিলাম তখন আগামাথা বুঝতাম না। পড়তে পারলে টাইপ অনুবাদ হলেই চলত। কিনতু এখন অনুবাদের মান ততটা ভাল লাগছে না। চলে টাইপ অনুবাদ।বইয়ের বযাপারে তখন যেটা মুগধ করেছিল সেটা হল রাইফেলের বরননা। সেটা এখন ও ভাল লেগেছে। ভিয়েতনাম ফেরত বব লি সোয়েগার কাহিনীর পযাঁচে পড়ে খুনি হয়ে যায়। এরপরের লড়াইটা নিজেকে বাঁচানোর জনয । কাহিনীতে আছে ভিয়েতনামের সমৃতি বনধু হারানোর গলপ, নিজেকে সব কিছুর ভিতরে বাঁচিয়ে রাখ
হটাৎ মনে হল পুরানো বই গুলা সব রিভিশন দেওয়া দরকার।কারন মাথার ভিতর থেকে অনেক কিছুই হারিয়ে যাচ্ছে। অনুব
4  stars. Last half is good action suspense.For the first 240 pages (42%) I was depressed and stressed. I had trouble sleeping at night. It was too much hopeless helpless victim feel because innocent man Bob Lee was framed for murder and on the run. THEN it changed and the rest of the book was exciting and hard to put down. Bob Lee was on a mission of retribution -- revenge. The bad guys were worried. There was a happy ending for the good guys which I liked. But I did not like one thing at the e
Last half is good action suspense.For the first 240 pages (42%) I was depressed and stressed.
It was too much hopeless helpless victim feel because innocent man Bob Lee was framed for murder and on the run.
Bob Lee was on a mission of retribution -- revenge.
There was a happy ending for the good guys which I liked.
Someone compared Bob Lee to Jack Reacher.
The Bob Lee story was more realistic.
Also Reacher doesn’t have the depressing and stressful effect that caused me to feel bad for a couple days.Bob Lee Swagger was a top sniper in the Vietnam war.
POINT OF IMPACT by Stephen Hunter is the first novel in the 'Bob Lee Swagger' series that has produc
Bob Lee Swagger is a tough, unforgettable character. The action, settings & plot are all plausible. If you like conspiracy theories, guns & snipers, it's a great read. Well written & thought out.The biggest surprise to me was that when I tried to re-read the books maybe 5 years later, I couldn't get back into it. I didn't think of it as a read-once book. It's better than that. Maybe a little too good & I remembered it too well to make a re-read worth it. Usually my memory is worse than that.
But thanks to his daddy's teachings and how Uncle Sam has treated Bobby in the past, he takes no chances and takes steps to ensure that he is protected.
He has been asked to line up a shot at the President, not to actually take him out, you see, just to see if it can be done.
When an actual shot is fired and the President goes down, the clock starts ticking on Bobby's life.
Only Bobby Lee knew he hadn't committed the crime and was prepared to give his life in order to prove his innocence.
A series of books that I would like to recommend is Stephen Hunter’s first three books of the Bob Lee Swagger series (Point of Impact, Black Light and Time to Hunt).
I have only read one of the later books in the series and they seem to be more straight-forward action-thrillers but the first three books had the most wonderful plots and some of the best twists I have ever read.
Beyond the great action, plot and final twist, the courtroom scenes alone stand against any of the best legal thrillers in my opinion.
At the suggestion of a friend, I picked up a 5x7 paperback not expecting too much but I became so engrossed in this character and the clear writing that I ended up reading this book in a day.The author is just as skilled as Bob Lee Swagger...lines up the story, checks the wind, loads the right ammo in the form of words and gets to the point...BAM!
Suddenly you're hit by a story that tells you everything you want to know but still feel mystified by the protagonist.
Very, very good read.
Never felt I was being left out nor bored.
I finally gave up reading this book on page 270.
Well, I gave up reading FAST FOOD NATION but that was different.
Basically, Mr. Hunter paints himself into a corner because the character he creates of "Bob Lee 'The Nailer' Swagger"is so supremely almighty powerful and awesome that it's impossible for the reader to buy for one second that the bad guys would be able to convince Bob to work for them.
Absolutely impossible.
So, I overlooked this, thinking that Mr. Hunter's writing would carry me through the holes and blemishes and bestow upon me a sense of genuine enjoyment as I discovered how Bob exacts his revenge but alas, I just couldn't ignore my instincts, which were: this premise/characters are full of shit.
This is the second novel by Stephen Hunter that I've read, and while it doesn't quite hit the cartoonishly hypertrophic heights of  Dirty White Boys , it's more tightly focused and plotted. This is both good and bad, since after the first 100 or 200 pages it feels as if the characters are all slaves to the plot, which is unfortunate, since they actually had the potential to be pretty interesting people. On the plus side, the technical details of marksmanship and rifles are all pretty interesting
This is the second novel by Stephen Hunter that I've read, and while it doesn't quite hit the cartoonishly hypertrophic heights of 
  Dirty White Boys
, it's more tightly focused and plotted. This is both good and bad, since after the first 100 or 200 pages it feels as if the characters are all slaves to the plot, which is unfortunate, since they actually had the potential to be pretty interesting people. On the plus side, the technical details of marksmanship and rifles are all pretty interesting, and--unlike so many overwritten thrillers--integral to the story.
This is one of the THE best thrillers ever. A real one. Joyous to read from start to finish It's an absolute shame that it is not more well known.Character of Swagger is A celebration of Hunter's skills.
To shoot wasn't enough: there was something almost Borgesian about the labyrinths the damned things conjured in the imagination.”And how can you resist this:"Howdy, ma'am," Bob sung out."Whachew want?" the old lady asked."See the colonel.""Colonel don't see nobody these days.""Hell, I have me a line on a pre-'64 70 in .270 once owned by a famous bad boy.
But it is different in a war, where a sniper is as honourable a service as any other and maybe more difficult.Above all, Swagger is an honourable man (one of his opponents describes him as sick with honor).
But his bloodlust is reawakened by a chance for payback: A shady colonel visits Bob's cabin and offers him the opportunity to take down the Russian sniper who blew Bob's hip off and killed his protege in Vietnam.
The commie rat is out to kill "the great man"(!) who led the country in the Persian Gulf War. Podunk Bob swallows that story and is surprised to discover himself the patsy: framed for an assassination and pursued by cops, feds and Latin American death squads.
No one writes as gracefully as Stephen Hunter about boys' toys that kill you.
The author told us of Swagger's self-imposed isolation as a result of the Vietnam War but he couldn't convey to us why, simply, because he didn't really know why.
There's a side of Swagger that won't be found in this book.
It's a side of him that yearns to share with others how we felt about his time over there.
It had made him feel betrayed and embarrassed.
Embarrassed for seeing in the eyes of those he spoke with that he was less of a person - broken.
Those days were buried a long time ago.
Is Bob Lee Swagger really Superman?Man this book gave me a headache.
Stephen Hunter can write great gun battles, and he knows weapons and tactics.
But his hero, Bob Lee Swagger, is a boring, monotonous individual.
He's not a carefree playboy like James Bond.
He's not a family man like Jack Ryan.
He's not even a cheerfully amoral mercenary like Conan The Barbarian.
No, Bob Lee Swagger is what Tennessee Williams once called "an ass-aching Puritan." He doesn't smoke, drink, raise hell or chase girls -- yet he's always sneering at intellectuals, Yankees, northerners, and anyone else who is aroused by anything other than guns.
His life revolves around guns; he has a huge cache, which he fine tunes and cares for but never uses for killing.
He's got a loyal dog and plenty of room to roam, and that suits him fine.When Bob served in Vietnam, he was renowned for his marksmanship; currently, he is one of the top shooters in the United States.
Eventually, he also works with an FBI agent who is in the process of being suspended; together, they take on a huge force who have as their goal the utter obliteration of Bob. Bob turns into a killing machine; "overkill" is a word that applies on more than one level.Swagger is one of those implacable men of action that are popular in the thriller genre.
I assumed it would be pretty entertaining, since that Marky Mark movie Shooter that derived from this book is so fun.
I would also like to applaud Hunter on his courageous use of the word 'banal.' If I were a writer, i think I wouldn't have the gumption to use a word as contrived as banal more than once or twice in a given opus.
But Mr. Hunter fearlessly and relentlessly invokes the word so often that the use of the word 'banal' actually becomes banal.
Do yourself a favor and skip this book and just watch the movie Shooter.
If you want to find out about some of the things hinted at in "Point of Impact" - how Bob managed to stop an entire NVA battalion with a 2-man sniper team, and the real story about Bob's father : his Medal of Honor and how he died in the line of duty, then you're in luck.The story of Bob Lee Swagger and his complicated past continue in "Black Light" and "Time to Hunt", which are even better than this book.
More complicated plotting, and more action.And the best part: "Black Light" and "Time to Hunt" don't just keep you guessing until the end - they hide what's really going on in the plot until the very end.
This is an excellent thriller where an ex-sniper who lives a solitary life in the mountains of Arkansas is lured into a complex plot to kill a political figure where he ultimately is targeted to be the patsy.
Supporting characters are well developed and the settings are described to perfection, particularly when the action moves to the mountains of western Arkansas.
I've been in that area many times and --pardon the pun-- the author is right on target.A pretty good movie-- Shooter staring mark Wahlberg--- is based on the novel, but the movie craft requires shortcuts.
Good read.
Excellent fast-paced action novel from Stephen Hunter. This is the first Bob Lee Swagger novel and it is probably the best! However, I really love all of the Swagger series - both Bob Lee and Earl Swagger. I would recommend reading this book, then "Dirty White Boys" (not a Swagger novel, but some of the same characters appear in other books), and then "Black Light" which ties "Point of Impact" and "Dirty White Boys" together and is a great intro to the Earl Swagger novels. Hunter is super!!
I had just finished Lee Child's series and my father in law recommended this and even loaned me the entire series. I very much enjoyed this and look forward to the next.
First rate. I will read all of the Swagger books Hunter ever writes.
Fantastic book. The man's research is phenomenal. This is how to write a thriller. I can read this again anytime.
“Point Of Impact” is the first book that explodes Bob Lee Swagger, a jungle-smart hillbilly and premier sniper into our lives.
The book opens with Bob living a quiet life in the Arkansas mountains determined to saving the wild life from the poachers.
Two men – Bob, determined to maintain his reclusive life and Nick, determined to save his career with the FBI, are drawn together in a breath-taking journey to clear their names and stay alive through an intricate and fool-proof cover-up of a massacre in El Salvador.Through a very intelligent narrative, Bob and Nick trace down an elusive sniper through the shooters’ network, making clever use of gun-lore magazines.
It’s a taut thriller and a fantastic opening to a long running series featuring Bob Lee Swagger.
Read the book after seeing the movie with Mark Wahlberg.
I was already a fan of Hunter's from having read twice his thriller 'The Day Before Midnight.' This one is equally suspenseful, and stars his revolving character Swagger, who lives in Arkansas (a state I spent 3-1/2 years as a kid while my dad served in the US Air Force).This is a suspenseful story, and details how a loner like Swagger can get pulled in back into the cold due to his special skills.
Only this time, the people appearing to be his friends could very well be his undoing.Hard-hitting and suspenseful, the book is full of twists.
This is a good take on the trope of an innocent man accused of a crime with an open and shut case against him. The innocent man in this case is Bob Lee Swagger, veteran sniper and sly old fox. It made for an enjoyable, if quick read.
Bob Lee Swagger is a hard man to find.
He lives in the Ouachita Mountains with his guns and his dog, hiding from the world after getting out of the Marines with a bullet to the hip and spending a few years getting himself sober and put back together.
Suddenly the world thinks Bob the Nailer tried to kill the President of the United States.
Bob escapes, and sets out on a mission to clear his name.Lots of great characters and stories here.
Really close to a 5-star.
Upon further review, this book stayed with me enough to make it a 5-star.
For example, many of Hunter’s characters simply don’t exist in the film version.
In that group, include Doctor David Dobbler, (there’s a Louis Dobbler in the movie), Detective Leon Timmons, (in the flick it’s Officer Stanley Timmons) and Hugh Meachum becomes Senator Charles Meachum in the film.
Oddly enough, there’s no mention of Archbishop Jorge Roberto Lopez of El Salvador in the Hollywood version of Hunter’s tale.
In the Stephen Hunter version, the assassination plot takes place in New Orleans.
Johnson, played on screen by Danny Glover, apparently took Colonel Shreck’s place in the novel.
