https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59952.300
Are you ready for the 88-page long epic graphic novel inspired by the most famous historic last stand?Ahoo Ahoo Ahoo(I hope everyone here chanted that with me)  Into the hell's mouth..... we march.  Set in 480 BC, Frank Miller's 300 retells the battle of Thermopylae: a battle that raged between 300 Spartans and allied forces against the full strength of Persian army. And what a battle it was.This limited graphic series is considered as one of the most acclaimed works of Frank Miller. You'd know
Set in 480 BC, Frank Miller's 300 retells the battle of Thermopylae: a battle that raged between 300 Spartans and allied forces against the full strength of Persian army.
And what a battle it was.This limited graphic series is considered as one of the most acclaimed works of Frank Miller.
You'd know why that particular opinion persists when you read this book.
And now I can state confidently that the movie is one hell of an adaptation of its source material.
The movie not only absorbs the story faithfully but also manages to transcend the source material in many parts.Overall, if you are looking for something energetic...
Read this book!Once again, together now!
As with many comics and graphic novels, I've seen the movie before I read the book.
Thus I wanted to read the graphic novel.The book is pretty short but it also has just the right length.
Before seeing the movie, I hadn't seen this style before what with the brownish colours everywhere and bright red as a shock - alas, since then many have copied it, but this will always be the first and therefore original to me.
Plus, the book had (as I had hoped) my two favourite scenes in it:So yeah, despite the historical inaccuracies and the thick coat of pathos everywhere, I enjoyed myself very much and understand why Frank Miller's work usually gets a lot of praise.
Ovde nemam sta puno da dodam: odlicni crtezi, akcija, zabavna prica koje samo ovlaz dodiruje istoriju. Frank Miler iz svojih najboljih dana. Savrsena preporuka sem za cepidlake :P
کمیک 300، که دستمایه ی فیلمی از "زک اسنایدر" با همین نام شد که صدای ایرانی ها رو درآورد، نوشته ی "فرانک میلر" نویسنده ی افسانه ای کمیک.به شخصه، فکر میکنم خیلی از کسایی که کلی سر و صدا کردن بابت این فیلم، فیلم رو ندیده بودن.
خیلی خوب نشون میداد که این ها ورزیده ترین و وحشت انگیزترین سپاه پارسی هستن.خشای آرشا یه مقداری غیر طبیعی و زن نما کشیده شده بود که یحتمل به خاطر مقاصد داستانی و نشون دادن نقش منفیش بود.داستانداستان بسیار بسیار ضعیف و خام بود.
I prefer to die on my feet,than live on my knees.Ever since I've seen the movie adaptation of 300 (LONG time ago), I've been wanting to read the graphic novel, and now I finally got a chance to read it.
I loved the movie adaptation of this (I even liked the sequel), and now that I finally read the graphic novel, I can safely say that I loved the graphic novel as well.
But I have to say, even though I loved the graphic novel, I still like the movie a bit more.
Όμως το κόμικ, που στην Ελλάδα κυκλοφορεί εδώ και χρόνια, μέχρι τώρα παρέμενε για κάποιον αδιευκρίνιστο λόγο αδιάβαστο.
Όμως το βρήκα μπροστά μου, θεώρησα την τιμή αστεία για την σκληρόδετη έκδοση ενός εμβληματικού έργου, και το άρπαξα.
Άφησα στην άκρη την εικόνα που έχω για την ταινία και βρήκα ότι και το κόμικ είναι σε πολύ υψηλό επίπεδο ποιότητας.
Φυσικά δηλώνω λάτρης του Φρανκ Μίλερ και δεν περίμενα να μην μείνω ευχαριστημένος έστω και λίγο από κάποιο έργο του, απλά χαίρομαι που σιγουρεύτηκα.
Spartans! Tonight we dine in hell The original graphic novel that inpired the movie of the same name. Graphics are amazing, unique and pioneer for their time; too brutal and too tale-like. Lines are as spartan-like as they should be: "το λακωνίζειν εστί φιλοσοφείν" (talk as less as you can to be wise) is the moto of these soldiers that fear nothing, even death himself. "Η ταν ή επί τας" (come carrying this shield or be brought up to it") is the other hesitate-in-front-of-no-enemy moto. Spartans
The original graphic novel that inpired the movie of the same name.
Graphics are amazing, unique and pioneer for their time; too brutal and too tale-like.
Lines are as spartan-like as they should be: "το λακωνίζειν εστί φιλοσοφείν" (talk as less as you can to be wise) is the moto of these soldiers that fear nothing, even death himself.
"Η ταν ή επί τας" (come carrying this shield or be brought up to it") is the other hesitate-in-front-of-no-enemy moto.
Spartans and their sacrifice still inspires in many forms of art (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kF_nY...).
The graphic novel itself inspired cinematography for a new animation-like CGI (like Spartakos)
This is Sparta!).And yet Frank Miller would have us believe they're better than the cultured Athenians (who're habitually described as boy-lovers, in spite of the Spartans being big macho maries themselves), that they can rationally reject their religion (the priests are painted as corrupt) and that what they're fighting for in their battle against the Persians is WESTERN CIVILISATION ITSELF.In the end, the invading Persians (who offer to enrich Sparta in exchange for her vassalship) sound a lot more like today's America.
The effort by Dark Horse Comics to make this hardcover edition of Frank Miller's 300 into a panoramic edition is appreciated. This was the way Miller intended as the individual issues (or floppies) were a 2 page splash from start to finish.My only gripe is I cannot display it spine first on my shelf with my other Miller works. But a great read nonetheless.
Years later I sat down with it again one rainy Saturday morning and after re-reading it I decided to set down my thoughts to encourage anyone out there reading this review who hasn't read this book to go out and read it now.The story is set in 480 BCE and is about King Leonidas of Sparta and 300 of his personal guard standing up to a massive Persian army many thousands strong led by the self-proclaimed god-king Xerxes.
There are so many excellent passages like when the Spartans meet up with the Arcadians or Leonidas' confrontation with Xerxes that the words will ring through your mind long after you’ve read it (in my case years later).Then there's the art.
Until now, it still is one of my best guilty pleasure movies of all time.
The slow motion choreography and the dumb macho rhetoric made me smile for days.So, buying the 300 graphic novel by Frank Miller is the way to go to satiate my desire for more Spartan action.
The artwork is the best I have seen from Frank Miller.300 the graphic novel holds the manliness record for the densest number spears, arrows, shields, red capes and abs in graphic literature.I love 300 for what the satisfaction it gives from its mindless fun and glorious action.
I give this masterpiece 11 Spartan kicks out of 10.
سینما (و کمیک بوک ها) را نباید با کتاب های تاریخی اشتباه گرفت.
واقعیت،سینما اسطوره است و همواره با تغییر و تحریف واقعيت به داستانگويي مشغول است.پس لطفا انتظارات خود را در حد مقدورات این هنر نگه داریم.آرتور میلر که حالا دیگر به خدایگان کمیک بوک تبدیل شده، در این کتاب به بازگویی آزادانه ی جنگ ترموپيل می پردازد.
The Spartans, when not wearing their helmets, looked so much like the Persians that it was a bit of a head-scratcher.
Ephialtes does the sensible thing and hurls himself off a cliff.Meanwhile, Persian King Xerxes summons King Leonidas for a parley.
It doesn't go very well.As it turns out, resilient Hunchback of the Greek Opera Ephialtes isn't actually dead, and betrays Sparta to Xerxes.
The wimpy Greeks who have been hanging out with the hardcore Spartans run away, and Leonidas sends the Spartan poet with them, to sing heroic songs of their victory.
Lo que más me gusta del comic además de sus discursos políticos en cuanto a la valentía, sacrificio y patriotismo son los colores agresivos tan marcados, donde prevalece el rojo de la sangre y de las capas espartanas.Como dije antes, su narración en panorámico ayuda mucho a su narración cinematográfica y dramática.
Este conjunto de cinco partes (como se publicaron originalmente) forman un conjunto compacto en donde hay verdaderas viñetas que son obras de arte o auténticos cuadros que podrían exhibirse en cualquier parte.
Sin duda, creo que si te gustan los comics, este es uno de los que debe estar en la estantería, porque es una verdadera maravilla.
Po prostu: ten komiks jest stanowczo za krótki, bo mam ochotę czytać tę historię w kółko, a jednak za szybko się kończy.• Przyznam szczerze, że film podobał mi się bardziej.
Bo gdybym nie znała wcześniej tej historii z filmu to prawdopodobnie komiks by mi się nie podobał.• Wystawiam 300 nieco niską ocenę ze względu na pewnego rodzaju luki fabularne i przyczynowo-skutkowe, które przeszkadzały mi w odbiorze tej historii.• Ale to świetne doświadczenie przeczytać komiks na podstawie, którego został stworzony jeden z moich ulubionych filmów: teraz moje życie jest kompletne ♥• I mimo tego, że jest trochę minusów w tym komiksie to jednak: uwielbiam tę historię i uwielbiam kreskę.

300 offers a very cool reimagining of the Battle of Thermopylae.
Like the famous movie adaptation, the book oozes style (I particularly enjoyed the exotic interpretation of the Persian Emperor and his armies), and the story is action packed and engaging.
This is not the deepest or most nuanced graphic novel I've ever read; it is the literary equivalent of an action movie.
The artwork had some definite high points (creativity being #1), but personally I like Miller better as a storyteller than as an artist, and overall I found the art to be a mixed bag.A strong, exciting, fun read.
300 was alright, I suppose. I definitely came in with negative preconceptions after reading quite a few criticisms of the movie. In the end, though, the book was just a highly stylized telling of a fable. The story was more important than the characters, and it was interesting for the 20 minutes it took me to read it.
This book is excellent if you need something to prop your computer up on if you're using it in bed and don't want the fan to get smothered by blankets. I do not believe it has any other redeeming qualities.
“Spartans, prepare your breakfast and eat hearty... For tonight we dine in hell!”That was Epic.
Grandioso! Assolutamente perfetto.

La historia es muy entretenida pero no llegas a conocer a los personajes, ni siquiera a Leonidas, sólo sabes que están ahí porque se rigen por la Ley Espartana, su orgullo y su deseo de una muerte gloriosa.
Están ahí más que por la libertad por su negación a ser esclavizados), la segunda la forma en que escribe se ajusta a lo que sucede (una guerra narrada desde el punto de vista de los que la están combatiéndo no es precisamente poética).El arte es increíble, los colores se van adecuando a cada situación y el formato en panorámica hacen que te adentres mejor a todo lo que sucede porque en realidad tus ojos tienen poco descanso entre cuadro y cuadro.Sí viste la película no hay nada que pase aquí que no conozcas ya, varias escenas (ok la mayor parte de las escenas) son representaciones exactas de las viñetas.
L'ho visto due volte, colpita dalla trama, dalle immagini (il senso della vista per me è fondamentale, sono sempre alla ricerca di vita che passi daglio occhi e mi rimanga impressa sotto le palpebre in modo tale da poterla rivedere ogni volta che batto le ciglia...
flash di immagini che rimangono lì in attesa di ricordarmi l'emozione che mi ha dato guardarli) e dalla narrazione con cui la storia ci viene data.
Poi, un cuore generoso mi ha regalato questo bel volume.
Sono appassionata di fumetti: posso passare ore a studiare un tratto, un disegno, un'immagine...
questo è uno dei miei preferiti.
A radical adaptation of actual history, retold by Frank Miller through an eccentric artwork of knotty illustrations and vibrant colours. I must say that the ridiculous periods of time spent on a single page, just gawking at both recto and verso, is noteworthy too.
I never read this before, though I had seen the movie and like the movie, this isn’t bad though perhaps a tad overrated.What’s it about?The spartans go at war with the Persians.
It’s super intense throughout.The dialogue is very well written, I liked that a lot.Cons:The story is rushed at times.
I liked the art, story and action but the ridiculous armor-less thing and not-an-ending make this only okay IMO.If you’re a fan of the movie and haven’t read this then I’d recommend checking it out so you know the source material, otherwise there’s a lot of better comics to read.3/5
Las novelas gráficas representan un reto para mí, no suelo leer más de dos al año pero tengo un reto este 2018 de leer aproximadamente 15 novelas gráficas/cómics. 300 me ha parecido el libro con las ilustraciones que más me han impresionado, son de una belleza indescriptible y junto a los colores logran emocionarme. Creo que no debo explicar este libro porque a esta altura la mayoría ha visto la película (El libro es una completa obra de arte, la película no me gusta en absoluto).
but if you like graphic novels at all, this is a must-have.
i have to say, rarely have i seen a graphic novel where the art takes center stage.
sure there are comics with good art interspersed within the pages, but the art in this is just other-worldly.
and i think that's funny considering that this is a comic, for chrissakes.
fiction based loosely on historical events with very little documentation.
fiction meant to convey themes and ideals, not facts and data.
like any great parable or allegory or story, this is more about the principle of the Spartans.
Like the four-color comics before him, Miller takes archetypes and symbols and drives them full throttle to the epic, gun-blazing climax.
Unfortunately, character and emotion suffer.
Likewise, in the film adaptation of 300, the actors and director helped to infuse the characters with more emotion and depth.All in all, 300 isn't a long enough read for Miller's drawbacks to really hurt it, and he picked a fittingly manly story to showcase his histrionic machismo.
My Suggested Reading In Comics
