https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182547.Strange_Wine
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Everyone Watches the Monitor: "Strange Wine" by Harlan Ellison(Original Review, 1980-11-07)I was reading a book by the name of 'Strange Wine' by Harlan Ellison recently.
The book is very good, but that is not what I want to talk about.
He has an introduction titled "Revealed at Last!
What Killed the Dinosaurs!
And You Don't Look So Terrific Yourself." I would like to tell you a few things from this introduction.
According to an HEW study, only 8% of the American population buy books (I wonder what those numbers are in Portugal).
This was my first encounter with Harlan Ellison.
I had read his introduction to the fourth Sandman volume The Season of Mists, which I'd always enjoyed, but nothing beyond that.And now Strange Wine...
A collection of short fiction that reveals a very fertile imagination and a sense of language that ranks among the best short fiction writers of the 20th century (at the very least).
I am afraid to say I have never heard of Harlan Ellison for fear it might send this caustic, “speak your mind” author into apoplexy.
Ellison is more known for short stories than full length novels.
STRANGE WINE is a collection of fifteen short stories “from the nightside of the world” published in 1978.
I like the story “Mom” the best as the ghost of a Jewish mother still tries to control her son’s life.
The title story, “Strange Wine” leaves the reader, or should leave the reader with a great lesson about life.
until Ellison passed away at the end of June, which seemed like a good opportunity to delve back into his works.Ellison was a divisive figure in writer circles, a self-professed hostile asshole, known for his outspoken and abrasive personality (his Wikipedia page has a 9-part "controversies and disputes" section), which shines through in this particular collection, where he wrote an introduction to each story, usually telling the reader where the idea came from, or why and how and where he wrote them.
Which is just how I like my writing; Harlan is one of the few people who can write two-page paragraphs and still insure that you never skip a word.'Strange Wine' is a heady brew, and I wouldn't suggest reading more than one short story at a time.
Probably the best story in the book.Working with the Little People Funny commentary on creativity, legends, and what passes for fantasy these days.Killing Bernstein Here's real evidence of Harlan's ADD.
About forty-one ideas get explored in this fifteen-page story, and it all gets tied together with the most ridiculous 50's sci-fi twist ending (Harlan's favorite way to end a story - Stephen King's a big fan of Ellison, which explains a lot).
“The New York Review of Bird” is about Ellison’s own invented pseudonym coming to life and harassing a bookstore clerk.The collection left me grateful that we have the umbrella of Speculative Fiction.
Meanwhile “The New York Review of Bird” never really has a focus, being the vehicle for a rant; “Working With the Little People” is more of a cute idea than a story; and “Croatoan” veers from being mainstream malaise fiction to something surreal.
It's a neat concept that Ellison does nothing with: the man is unhappy with his situation, sees a psychiatrist who makes him repeat his situation, then dies and is told earth isn't a punishment, but actually the nicest place in the universe and he should have enjoyed it.
Crusty old bastard (and still longtime favorite) Harlan Ellison takes some pretty cruel potshots at copy editors ("literary vampires") no fewer than five times in his introductions to the fifteen stories in Strange Wine. I caught several errors in his writing that any copy editor worth her Chicago Manual would have immediately stricken, including my personal pet hatred, "It didn't phase me." It's FAZE, dammit! Take that, Harlan!
Harlan Ellison is one of those writers who I don't like as a person, but I do like his work. Strange Wine is a short story anthology and it's good. Very good. Normally I write more in-depth reviews, but short of reviewing each story in this anthology (which I am not going to do) just trust me when I say that the stories are all consistently well written. They cover the gamut from humorous to horrifying and all points in-between. I have no trouble giving it four stars.
Another superb collection of Harlan Ellison's unique fiction. This is my second favorite Ellison short fiction collection right behind Deathbird Stories. Highlights: The stunning "Hitler Painted Roses" and the equally impressive "Boulevard of Broken Dreams". Also, The introductory essay "What Killed the Dinosaurs! And You Don’t Look So Terrific Yourself" is not to be missed.
I've been a fan of Ellison for a quarter of a century and this, by far, is my favourite book of his.
With any other writer, this would be an intrusion; but with Ellison, it works, because the man is funny, wise, and entertaining.
They are basically a miscellany of anything that Ellison wants to talk about: How he came to write this or that story; where he wrote it; the ideas behind it- and sometimes the connection to the story is tenuous." The New York Review of Bird" for instance.
This is my first encounter with Harlan Ellison, my interest being piqued by his mention in Stephen King's Danse Macabre.
I'm a fan of short form in general and especially the type of stories published during what I consider the golden period of the 50s through the 70s.
Harlan Ellison is pissed off.
He wants change.
He wants people to know things, to feel things and all that comes through in his writing.
And it makes for some great short stories that you can mull over for hours.My favorites include "From A to Z, in the Chocolate Alphabet," the titular "Strange Wine," and "Seeing."
I first read this book in high school.
I've dipped into it regularly since then.
Technically, you can call it "fantasy" or "science fantasy".
I call it American literature of the highest degree.Ellison is one of my main inspirations as a writer.
His work transcends the "science fiction/fantasy" tag.
Ellison is an American Borges, a U.S. Italo Calvino He easily takes his place among first-tier 20th Century American short story writers.
The guy's language, his vision, are just that original.
His work is utterly American, in the best of all possible ways.If Ellison's collected stories intimates you due to length, start here.
So I've read a few of these stories and they read like the worst kind of art school pretentiousness.And in between each story theres an exposition by the author who whines about 'kids these days and their damn tv,' while boasting about his sexual prowess and equating the act of writing to something akin to all the acts of Jesus, Buddha and Odin combined. He comes across like such a wanker I can't finish this.
This is one of my favorite Harlan Ellison short stories collections, and it's probably mainly for the awesome, and brilliant "Hitler Painted Roses." I don't know how many times I've read this story but it's truly unforgettable, horrifying, and beautiful.The one negative of the story: it introduced me to the evil that is Gilles de Rais. I did a little research on this infamous man in history and still haven't been able to sweep him from my mind. *shudder*
Uma coletânea divertida, na qual a ironia permeia conceitos terríveis e maravilhosos. Poderia a morte ser evitada a conta gotas, graças a aplicações homeopáticas? Caso Hitler esteja no Inferno, será necessariamente um infeliz e sofredor? E o que aconteceu ao Sombra, famoso vingador das ondas de rádio, depois da aposentadoria? São questões que, apesar de aparentemente tolas, rendem histórias que prendem como se seus olhos fossem bifes pendurados nos ganchos de um açougue.
A half star each to the two stories in here that I did enjoy - The Boulevard of Broken Dreams, and Strange Wine. As for the remaining stories, I skimmed through them. It was the author's introduction to the story 'Croatoan' that ruined the book for me. Narcissistic Twat!
Took my time with this one, as I'd like to enjoy Ellison's imagination for the remainder of my days. Some of the most inspired fiction ever imagined.
His writing has an energy and compelling tone that pulls the reader in and sweeps her along with the force of the story.
He writes everything from straight science fiction to dark humor to bone-chilling horror.
That he believes that we could be better than that (who would think it of one of the crankiest, old so-and-sos in science fiction) if we'd only want it badly enough.Each of the stories in this collection is a winner--making for another ★★★★★ outing from an excellent author.
Singularly memorable tales from the collection include the visceral Croatoan, which has lost none of its shock value in the intervening decades, the equally grotesque yet desperately sad Sight, which seems all too possible with what has emerged about the organ trade in recent times, and the sinister Boulevard of Broken Dreams, which seems all the more horrible for not spelling out what will happen next.Years ago I read a single excerpt from The Chocolate Alphabet, which creeped me out so thoroughly that I've wanted to read the rest of it ever since.
There’s a dark edginess to Ellison’s writing that I like quite a bit.
Also, there’s the fact that he lacks the internal filter that keeps many of us from blurting out whatever inappropriate thing comes to mind.
To make a living a large volume of material must be written and sold and one doesn’t have the luxury of time to hone each story.
I’ll also say that Ellison seems to have a rather hostile attitude towards women.
And yet … it’s difficult to dispel the impression that he carries a smoldering kernel of hatred towards women in his breast.
I have thoughts about this book.First thought - some of these are really excellent stories, and made me think about things, or were cleverly written.
I approve of this.Second thought - if you go to read this book...
skip the author's forward and all of the introduction pieces, because Harlan Ellison is an asshole.
A sexist asshole.
He, in fact, pretty much says this of himself...
and, having just looked him up on wikipedia, this is not news to anyone.Of course, if I stopped reading any authors who were sexist, racist, homophobic, or just generally assholes, I wouldn't have much to read.
Stephen King recommended author and book. King calls Harlan Ellison a "ferociously talented writer." Book noted as "important to the genre we have been discussing" from Danse Macabre, published in 1981. Book and author discussed in chapter 9 where King also said this about the book: "My Plan is to discuss ten books that seem representative of everything in the genre that is fine; the horror story as both literature and entertainment, a living part of twentieth-century literature..."
What to say? The man is the master of speculative fiction short story. Somehow I missed this collection when it came out in the late '70s and I am so pleased to have found it. Ellison writes perfect Swiss watch constructions with his short stories. His combination of a dark view of human nature, society and even himself (a self professed asshole) and the sheer craft of his writing never disappoint.
Though none of the stories collected here are among what I would consider the very, very best of Ellison, they're all good stories, full of life and feeling, and are thought-provoking and moving work. Each features an interesting individual introduction, and are by turns amusing, full of anguish, and always entertaining. The stories originally appeared in the mid-'70s, one of Ellison's most productive periods.
Harlan Ellison. You either love him or hate him. I love him. Yes, some of his stories are kinda pointless, but when he's good, he is GOOD. And the introductions to each story are hilarious.To my Israeli friends: Try to put your hands on the rare translation by Amos Gefen. It's got its own... quality.
I don't read short stories very often, but I have read these multiple times.
Liked the introductions to the stories better than the stories themselves. Mostly.
Probably the most influential book of short stories I've read. This hit me at exactly the right age and made me a lifelong fan of Harlan Ellison.
Holy shit.
I will admit that when I was a kid, I looked forward to watching Twilight Zone and Outer Limits each week.
Ellison passed away in June, and there was a flurry of more recommendations from Book Bub, so I gave it a go.I liked most of the stories well enough, some better than others.
The main reason I kept reading was that I particularly liked Ellison’s introduction to each story.
He outlines the story behind his writing, and his introductions reveal much about him as a character.
The introduction to the book is titled Revealed at Last!
And you don't look so terrific yourself.This book is strange wine indeed!https://candysplanet.wordpress.com/
