https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/903205.The_Birds
You can feel somewhat sympathetic for Hege, stuck all alone with a simple brother, yearning for some joy or romance in her life.Whether it was intended, there are also moments that are quite tense, Mattis would become a ferryman, carrying people across the lake, the trouble is there is just no one about, but at least he has a reason to face the day with more enthusiasm, he is now an important figure, or so he would believe, leading to a cramped moment on his boat where he tries to show off with two girls he ferries back to land.
Nature is as beautiful as it is lethal, deadly lightening might fulminate the aspens, the wind might whistle lost birdsongs of the ensnared woodcock and Mattis’ boat might bring Jørgen, the muscular lumberjack, into Hege’s life and destroy the fragile ecosystem that Mattis so assiduously constructed over the years in the blink of an eye, but Vesaas’ stark prose and the disturbing blend of tenderness and apprehension that paints the tone of the narration with the colors of a barren landscape will remain long after the last page is turned.
“You are You, that was what was written.” For the past week, every time I stepped into my room, an inquisitive man bombarded me with string of questions I had no answers to. “What’s the use of having so many turnips?”, he asked as he lay gazing at the naked sky. A faint whiff of camphor emitted from his smile, as he repeated how he pompously waved to Anna and Inger from the pier with sheer happiness, the boiled sweets gently being tossed by his tongue. The songs of the bird have no regulations
Like, the spontaneous birds, I opened up a page, read Mattis’s words and then traced my path back and forth through the graceful prose deciphering each footprints and clandestine messages pricked by the beak of the woodcock trying to comprehend the language of birds through the optimistic eyes of Mattis.
I resisted my nasty urge to pry into the story-line or the sub-plot, all I sought after was to perceive the world of Mattis through his words, his mind, his frustrations and longings while seeking a plausible answer to the avian greeting, “You are you!”
When the name of such artist turns out to be Tarjei Vesaas, one can be assured of receiving a humble lesson in various spheres of humanity.
The setting of a breathtaking landscape is soon introduced, but once the tender shadows of long, magnanimous trees and the dark veil of sinisterly silent lake subsides, one can detect the centre of this book, which is formed from the relationship of a brother-sister duo.
Hege, the Sister who is responsible and unhappy; Mattis, the Brother who simply is.
The sister, who is living in the world tainted with all its worldliness; the brother, who tries to make sense of friendly gestures and dangerous words.
To understand this book I need to learn the language of birds, of thunder, and of light over water.
Which is heartbreaking, because Mattis needs so little from the world to be happy.
A bird singing in the forest, a couple of young girls smiling at him on a hot summer day, a job he is good at, after so many failures (rowing a boat across the lake), a bag of candy from the local store, another girl touching his face for a second - it would be so easy to make him a part of our 'civilized' world.
Mattis is a man with the mind of a child.
His elder sister Hege takes care of him, knits sweaters constantly in order to support the two of them.I can't say I liked this book, but it was interesting to see inside the mind of this man child.
Often selfish in his needs, like children usually are, he finds solace and understanding in nature.
I liked best Mattis and his wonder with nature, the birds that he is sure are trying to communicate with him.
I am sure that there is much I just couldn't absorb, or understand.
Her days go on knitting sweaters and difficult care for Mattis.
The last day of my summer stay there I used to going to the lake, walking deserted pier, listening to the birds.
There’s always something sad when summer passes, something in the air, maybe evening mist, maybe the wind which makes ripples on the surface of the water and bulrush seems to whisper  farewell  …All Mattises of the world are the same, we pass them on the streets, meet at the stores.
Seeing them we roll our eyes, sometimes embarrassed, sometimes compassionate.Farewell Mattis then, I wish I could tell you something … but the right moment has gone...
She gave a start, even though she was really to blame.The people who live near brother Mattis and his older sister Hege named a pair of withered aspen trees after them.
It is a tragedy that he can't live with things the way they really are.
I almost felt it would be worth it to see the Mattis way when he watches the bird on that path.
It is a lot of work to see things the Mattis way.
I would say it is Mattis cannot deal with the way things are.
His persistent anxiety mixed with feelings of momentary pleasure trickles through my skin when I take his hand and let myself be led into the world of wandering thoughts and deep-seated obsessions.
And yet he looks at things like they are a never-ending wonder, a display of fireworks that keeps one’s mouth agape with incredulity.
For now, we sleep but every dream comes to an end.
—The depths, he thought.
This was where his restless thoughts had finally led him.
But then there’s this “other” thing too, he thought confusedly, going as far as he dared.
That’s where I’m going in the end, surely?
'We're coming, we're coming,' somebody said. ' You're ready, aren't you?' Vesaas's poetic words, as they flit and float within the currents of Mattis's uncomplicated mind, as he struggles to articulate them meaningfully, have proven that beauty of nature, nature's beings and the nature of one's being might simply be understood, less from the spoken word, if one would stop to quietly listen. Mattis, who exists naturally, with the emptiness many take several life cycles to achieve, is Vesaas's ex
Thus among all of them was a bird that was mine and I opened every door, every window in my home.Perhaps it was only a small, grey bird,but with bright eyes and warm, soft feathers and driven by impatience toward the heart that waited just for him,as a dry river bed waits to be flooded....Closer, closer the sound of wings, like a beating heart - stopping suddenly; was the bird standing still on my roof?Then the fresh sounds, as if the heart started to beat again,but faster now and fainterand further and further away until it swings around anew:the rush of thousand beating wings.I know now that the bird willnot roost with me today....Dusk falls.
Mattis can not tell weed from turnip and the very thinking of the difference makes him sleepy.
She saw it was no ordinary morning.Matts simply shook his head in reply.'Tell me,' she demanded sternly, knowing her brother as she did, and up to a point he obeyed.'I'm almost killing myself, I'm thinking so much,' he replied truthfully.'Oh, is that all,' said Hege.He gave a start.'Come and have your breakfast,' she said.What will Mattis do, now he's figured it out._____ _____ _____ _____ _____Well.
Beklediğimden çok daha fazlasını bulduğum bir kitap oldu benim için kuşlar ve geriye dönüp baktığımda hep hatırlayacağım bir karakter hediye etti bana.
Duyguların evrenselliğiyle bir kez daha yüz yüze geldim.
Çok dar bir alanda iyilik,kötülük,naiflik,korkular,bencillik o kadar güzel işlenmiş ki hepsini iliklerime kadar hissettim.
Bütün bunlar negatifle pozitifin yan yana konmasıyla yapıldığı için etkisi de fazla olmuş.
Gerilimin hep eşlik ettiği sade ve basit bir anlatımda bütün bu duyguları hissettirmek gerçekten büyük bir başarı.
Dilini sevdiğim,aktarım tarzını sevdiğim,kahramanını sevdiğim kuşlarla iyi ki okumuşum dediğim kitaplara bir yenisi eklendiği için çok mutluyum.
There are, of course, a lot of horrible things that can happen to a human being, but it strikes me that the loss of mental agility, and being aware of this loss, at least some of the time, must be a particularly potent kind of misery.In The Birds, acclaimed Norwegian author, and one time Nobel candidate, Tarjei Vesaas tells the story of Mattis and his long-suffering sister Hege.
I am not saying that this is always the case, but there is a real sense in the book that Hege has spent much of her time in bondage to Mattis, that she has missed out on her youth, or her best years, in order to keep him.
Meet Mattis, the main character, who you cannot but love although he speaks and acts a little strange, not like other persons.
But then, some day, while trying to work something happens that will threathen his peacefull life for real...
The simple yet unorthodox thoughts of Mattis often put a smile to my lips or sometimes you feel a little pang at your heart by reading them.
I fell in love with the book and I began to read faster and faster.
If you feel the need for something different, I would say: ' try this one'.
Not like any other book I read.
hafif gerilimli lirik masalsı bir anlatımı var. Şiir gibi..Hege ve Mattis adlı iki kardeşin yaşamını anlatırken yaş olarak büyük ancak zeka olarak bir çocuğun aklına sahip Mattis i çok güzel anlatmış. Ona köyde deli deseler de bazen onun gibi düşünmenin ne kadar naif olduğunu düşünmeden edemiyor insan.
yalın bir dil, baştan sona merak ve gerilimin eksilmediği bir hikaye ve kolay kolay unutulmayacak bir kahraman..hayata çocuk gözleriyle bakan, kendinden başka herkesi bilge, güçlü ve güzel gören mattis'in düşüncelerini, hayallerini ve korkularını aktarmakla kalmıyor norveçli yazar, hissettiriyor.
kuşlar, çok az kişiyle ve çok küçük bir yerde anlatılan büyük bir hikaye aslında.
herhangi bir yerde ve zamanda yaşanan ve yaşanacak olan.
son olarak "büyük" yayıncıların ıskaladığı bu başyapıtı türkçeye kazandıran timaş yayınlarına ve kusursuz çevirisi için deniz canefe'ye teşekkür etmek gerek.
deniz canefe sadece romanı norveççeden türkçeye aktarmamış, türkçenin gücünü ve güzelliğini gösteren bir çalışmaya imza atmış.
Vesos je Ptice postavio vrlo jednostavno: na samo tri tačke koje su dovoljno stabilna podloga za teška pitanja koja će podići.
Da bih obrazložila, idem u subjektivnost cepidlačenja: da, ima bergmanovsku staloženost i kad samu smrt izvodi na scenu, ali je ovo prilično bledo za Bergmana i upravo taj manjak hladnoće iz koje vreba katran crnilo uzimam za manjkavost.
Druga slabost, za moj ukus, je malo mlitav glavni lik, ali mislim da je on žrtva pero lakog stila i dijaloga (koje takođe ne smatram bravuroznim u meri u kojoj to recenzent ističe), zbog čega se ova knjiga može pročitati u cugu, za popodne.
Vesaas is in his element here: his understanding of the boy-man Mattis, his suggestion of all that Mattis doesn't understand, his love for his characters, for the setting and for the simple act of writing - all of this is deeply, deeply affecting.
I don't know how he does it, but by the time I finished this I felt as though I'd been on a comparable moral journey to that which Dostoevsky takes us on in The Idiot, but without my realising it until it was over.
We are so deep in Vesaas' world here that we can taste, smell, touch it.
Orta yaşlarda öksüz iki kardeşin yaşamlarından kısa bir bölümün anlatıldığı çok basit bir hikaye olarak özetlenebilir. Hikayenin iki kahramanı var, yarısından sonra bir kişi daha katılıyor aralarına. Erkek kardeşin saf ve ağır işleyen zekasına nazire yaparcasına basit ve saf cümleler ile ablanın çalışkan ve koruyucu yapısına uyan cümleler, oldukça farklı bir kurgu ile üç bölümde yazılarak ortaya ilginç ve keyifle okunan bir roman çıkmış. Aslında çoğumuz zaman zaman Mattis’leşiyoruz, ya da Mattis gibi davranmayı yadırgamıyoruz. Eser gerçekten basit gibi görünse de bitirince bunun aldatıcı olduğunu, sizi karakterler üzerinden düşünmeye yönlendirdiğini farkediyorsunuz. Öneririm.
A simple elegant study of a simple elegant character, a man who has difficulty understanding the human world around him and is supported by his sister, but who is extremely attuned tom the signals and portents of the natural world, the stirring of trees, the flights of birds. Vesaas' concise, spacious style is perfectly suited and the protagonist surprisingly engaging. No where near as beautiful and strange as Vesaas' next work The Ice Palace, though.
Očekivao sam više. Previše mlako i jednostavno i prosto... obično. Stil je fin, minimalan i ostavlja dosta prostora čitaocu da dopuni i sam sagradi centralni norveški pejzaž, da se i sam saplete o prirodu poput Matisa, ali ipak imam utisak kao da sam odgledao bar deset sličnih knjiga/filmova, ne toliko po priči (koja prati pomenutog i ne naročito bistrog Matisa, ali nažalost ni ne naročito dragog; mogla je ova knjiga da bude i bolja da mi je više tj. uopšte stalo do gl. lika) koliko po bazičnoj strukturi, kao nešto što je pisac napisao za par dugih, lenjih popodneva. 2+
Право мало скандинавско ремек-дело! Заиста је штета што је нешто овако преведено са 50 година закашњења...
For the first 60-70 pages I wondered if I would make it through a book that required me to inhabit the inner workings of a mentally handicapped man – it seemed so tedious, even ridiculous.
But slowly I warmed up, and Mattis became, if not lovable, at least very deserving of sympathy, so vulnerably human in his muddled thoughts and obsessions, neediness and instant superstititions.You can’t avoid feeling for his weary sister either, supporting and being in charge of a man who is effectively a very large child.
MUCH better than Lark and Termite, another book about an older sister caring for a handicapped younger brother.
Tour de force.Is symbolism perceived by a half-wit more perspicacious than by a normal eye made indifferent to hidden meanings by the grind of life?
He is often fooled, even ultimately fooled, but his inner life grants his actions an extraordinary dignity that we, lucky we, are made privy to.
His inner life is a thing of Beauty.
Where Vesaas was understated in 'The Ice Palace,' especially during the interactions between the main characters, he is generous in 'Birds'.
Vesaas work has no excess, and through this quality he forces the reader to look up from the page and just think.
Het verhaal wordt in de vrije indirecte rede verteld: we zien alles dus steeds vanuit het perspectief van Mattis, horen alles in zijn - naar onze maatstaven- simpele woorden, die wel door een naamloze verteller worden geparafraseerd maar niet door die verteller worden verklaard.
Ook zien we, door Mattis oog, hoe anderen op hem reageren: wij merken dan hoeveel moeite o.a. zijn zus met hem heeft en hoe moeilijk zij tot hem doordringt, en merken tegelijk ook dat Mattis dit deels wel voelt, er ook onder lijdt, maar het niet begrijpt.
Opmerkelijk boek. Als het echt goed gedaan is, hou ik wel van boeken met een minimum aan personages. Dit is zo één. Onvergetelijke ontmoeting met 2 meisjes. Voor Mattis en voor mij :-)...Gelezen naar aanleiding van enkele recensies hier op Goodreads dus voor diegenen die nog twijfelen...lezen die handel!
Ontroerend mooi. Het einde grijpt je finaal bij de strot. Absolute aanrader!
Spram Ledenog dvorca, Ptice su na mene ostavile daleko slabiji utisak i baš se jasno vidi kako je eksperiment (stilski, tematski) započet u Pticama u LD-u našao savršenu formu.
Čini mi se da je LD kompleksniji, dublji, i Vesos je našao idealnu meru onoga što treba reći i prećutati.
Ptice me malo podsećaju na Nastasijevića i Kod Večite slavine, premda kod Vesosa nije toliko očita mitološka podloga (iako je ima, posebno u opisima prirode).U svakom slučaju, mislim da oba dela vredi čitati, ali ako vam se Ptice i nisu dopale, a prve ste ih čitali, dajte Ledenom dvorcu priliku.
Nakon dugo vremena, uživao sam u predgovoru koje je izdavač priredio prvom izdanju i prevodu, što je u današnjem turbo vremenu nažalost zaboravljena kategorija.
U knjizi sam pak, i pored svog kultnog statusa koje zasluženo nosi, uživao nešto manje.
Odsustvo potrebe da se ukalupi forma, prisustvo suštine svuda, u dijalozima sa pticama, u zapravo logičnom i detinjem toku misli.
Sad znam odakle Luu Dopler, odakle Atkinsenu odsustvo radnje, odakle norveškoj televiziji dokumentarci iz jednog kadra.
De vogels is een prachtige roman over de bijna 40-jarige Mattis, die in het dorpje waar hij samen met zijn zus woont bekend staat als Slome. Zijn zus Hege is scherp, maar Mattis is dat niet. Hij is bang voor onweer, geobsedeerd door vogels en het lukt hem niet om werk te vinden. Toch zijn de observaties die hij maakt zo prachtig. Het boek is eenvoudig van taal, maar desalniettemin weet Tarjei Vesaas te raken. De vogels is ontroerend en puur, net als het hoofdpersonage.Mijn complete recensie lees je op Boekvinder.be.
