https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567610.How_to_Read_a_Book
The authors, ever practical, suggest six steps to do this – most of them self-evident and what any serious reader usually does with an expository book (this book is mostly about reading expository material and of limited value in reading literature and poetry, but more about that later).
Here, we are talking about the author’s own internal logic, and how far he has been able to present his arguments consistently in light of it, and how far he has been in successfully concluding his arguments.In the third stage of analytical reading, the reader, for the first time, starts to apply his critical senses and begins to agree or disagree with the author.
A syntopical outline would be titled, “How To Read Books.” For these reasons I have only focused on levels 1-3.
The more active the reader is, the better.A. You can be active by paying attention and focusing.B. By taking notes, highlighting key points and arguments, asking questions of the author, etc.C. Following rules for reading and making the following of these rules habitual.D. The demanding reader should be asking these 4 questions of the book:1.
I used Inspectional for most of the book - because my patience and interest were severely, and increasingly, limited.It focuses mainly on analytical reading of non-fiction: knowing what sort of book it is, having an idea of the content and structure etc.
Enough to put me off reading altogether.There are a couple of chapters devoted to fiction, but I didn’t find them helpful or insightful.Example of Annoyances“Most plays are not worth reading… because they are incomplete.”Sweeping generalisation followed by a non-sequitur.
The Literary Canon (only one?!)I don’t think the authors really know who their audience is - a fatal flaw in any writer/reader relationship.
It’s such a dinosaur.
It’s a manual.
Like some invisible ruler cracked against my keyboard-clobbering knuckles, like a pesky voice in your head.It’s like having tea with your cane-thumping retiree-professor of a great-grandfather.
And then him suddenly going quiet, when you’ve mustered the courage to ask about fiction—him quiet and then, and then: “We do not know, we cannot be sure, that the real world is good.
But the world of a great story is somehow good.
We want to live there as often and as long as we can.” And you both reach for your cups of tea.
That's great news, because that means that we have access to the greatest minds in the history of civilization!Adler and Van Doren says that the goal of this book is to help readers learn the skills they need in order to become well-read, as opposed to being merely widely-read.Thoughts:I love Adler's baseball analogy of reading:Pitcher/ hitter = Writer/ authorCatcher = ReaderBall = The ideas or information contained in the bookI also like to be reminded that reading (at least, reading for increased understanding, which is the main goal of this book) is never passive.

When I heard that the book instructs on analytical reading I knew I had to read it.I have decided that I am not going to summarize the rules enunciated in this book.
Instead I would keep my review short.In the first chapter the authors have mentioned that  “…… this book is about the art of reading for the sake of increased understanding.”  The authors have clearly stated that the book intends to help people understand expository works.
However, the authors have included sections on how to read fiction, plays and poetry as well.
The authors have included a reading list and said that these books would facilitate the growth of the mind.
The person who says he knows what he thinks but cannot express it usually does not know what he thinks. I had a lot of fun holding this book upside-down on the subway with a puzzled look on my face.For much of his remarkably long life, Mortimer Adler was the leading proponent of the ‘Great Books’ paradigm of education. Under his leadership, the Encyclopedia Britannica published the 54-volume Great Books of the Western World (1952) as well as the Gateway to the Great Books (1963)—which, consider
Ever since I encountered the list of the Great Books of the Western World, I have been gradually making my way through them.
This is signaled by his persistent use of the masculine pronoun, his creaky and dry prose, and also in his dismissal of much modern intellectual work as too specialized, too technical, or just wrong-headed.All these reservations aside, I must admit that Adler basically succeeds in his goal, which is to develop a methodology for getting as much as you can from non-fiction books.
What is more, I also must admit that every time I've read a book on Adler’s list, I found it surpassingly excellent—even great.
کتاب حاوی نکات ذی قیمتی برای خواندن است .عمده ی کتاب به تشریح روشهای خواندن تحلیلی و تلفیقی می پرداز
Sebagai satu perbandingan, buku yang menuntut pemahaman adalah buku yang lebih tinggi 'akal budinya' daripada pembaca, menuntut pembaca berfikir lebih sedikit untuk mengintegrasikan ilmu baru itu ke dalam ruang fikirnya.Bergantung kepada manfaat yang cuba kita raih, terdapat 4 peringkat kemahiran membaca, iaitu membaca secara asas, penelitian, analitis dan sintopik.
Beberapa ayat / halaman, jangan lebihSekalipun setelah melakukan 6 langkah di atas, kita memutuskan untuk tidak meneruskan pembacaan secara keseluruhan, kita tidak mungkin lagi terlupa mengenai buku yang telah kita mesrai sebelum ini.Dan jika kita akhirnya memilih untuk membacanya, jangan kecewa jika kali pertama cuba menghadam, kita tidak memahami banyak perkara.
Jesus not only transformed my desires, habits, and life's direction; he radically transformed two things: my desire to learn and my pursuit of truth.
When I came across this book I was seeking to simply become a stronger reader, but this book-outside of the Bible-has changed me more than any other.
I had found the Truth but had chosen to remove myself from the world of ideas & people who had left a legacy of seeking the very thing that I had recently found.
Read this with my two daughters when they were in seventh and eighth grades respectively.
It not only teaches how to read different materials, but also gives a list of must-read books.
Every serious reader needs to read this book!
Both of my daughters say they still use things they learned from this book in their reading.
(But they weren't terribly crazy about the book when we read it!
Ha!)Most important thing about the book--while there are many useful books you will read over the course of your life, you do not necessarily read them all the same way.
این را هم نمی توان عیب دانست چون اولا این کتاب اولین بار در سال 1372 در ایران ترجمه شده (که احتمالا این نسخه من هم فقط بازبینی همان کتاب است) و دوم اینکه شاید متن انگلیسی آن نیز که در سال 1972 (آخرین ویرایش کتاب در واقع ، چون ویرایش اول سال 1940 بوده) هم لحن بیان سنگین تری نسبت به ادبیات مرسوم این دوره دارد ولی به هر حال برای فردی که اهل مطالعه باشد به هیچ وجه غیرقابل فهم یا حتی ثقیل نیست.
كتاب قيم مؤلف منذ فترة طويلة من قبل خبير امريكيحول طرق القراءة الحديثةبالرغم من كوني قارئ قديم الا انني بين الفترة والاخرى اقرأ كتب من هذا النمطوهو دليل على اننا جميعا مهما وصلنا من تقدم في مختلف المعارف فأن ذلك لا يشكل الا نقطة البدايةسبحان الله!!كيف تقرأ كتابا وكلا منا قرأ الاف الكتب!! ذلك هو النقص في جملة بني البشروترى منا من يحمل في داخله جبروت لا يخشى به احدا وهو غير قادر على الصمود امام اقل الامراض فتكا!! ومع علمه بذلك فهو يخالف ويعاند تلك الحقائق الشاملة كجزء من المنظومة اللامرئية المتحكمة فيهالكتاب جدير بالقراءة والاطلاع
I read this book because I live by the mantra, "Life is Short---Read Fast" and I hoped it would teach me how to read faster.
Instead it teaches you to read slower, analytically.
It also teaches you how to "date" a book---to decide if you really want to spend the time to read the whole thing before commiting yourself to it.
Your previous understanding of the book in not invalidated; it is just as true as it ever was, and in the same ways that it was true before.
Your impression of increased understanding on your previous reading was not false.
The book truly lifted you then.
This is a book for readers and for those who wish to become readers.so writes Mortimer Adler in his first sentence.3 I stopped reading this book over MD (that's 1500) days ago. Hope no one was waiting for the review. Not likely, I know.Mortimer Adler (1902-2001) published this book in the early days of 1940. Before the U.S. had entered WW II. I guess at that point Americans were still concerned about how they should be reading books. (Adler, working at the University of Chicago, was one of the c
(Adler, working at the University of Chicago, was one of the co-founders and editors of the Great Books of the Western World project, published by Britannica in the 1950s.)The currently available edition, shown as the cover to the book reviewed here, is based on a 1972 "heavily revised" edition, for which Charles Van Doren (born 1926) is listed as a co-author.
So I simply use "Adler" as the author in what follows.the bookAdler's idea behind the book was that certain books - "great" books, perhaps even near great books – deserved, demanded, to be read in a way that would allow the reader to discover and understand what the author was saying, and why it was significant.
I have been reading this book very slowly, on and off, the past two months, trying to have enough time to concentrate, focus, be analytical, critical and syntopical.
The author proposes that books should be read three times for different reasons: 
In the reading milieu, such as Goodreads, where readers gather to discuss books, time has become a lesser evil, since passion for reading replaces more or less the urgent need for gathering information - or writing dissertations, and enjoyment has become a major factor.
Some thoughts on syntopical reading are somewhat interesting for anyone writing dissertations and theses, but not really for the average reader without a Ph.D. to pursue.I thank God for the insights because otherwise I would've wasted all my time.
The authors tend to painstakingly explain problems with unnecessarily long illustrations that take into account minuscule and trifling technicalities and terminological issues that make for an extremely tedious read.In fact, the tedium of it is simply incredible.
كتاب ذو مادة علمية ممتازة لكن مع الاسف ترجمته غير جيدةالكتاب يتناول كل شئ عن القراءة فيناقش مستويات القراءة وهي مستويات متراكمة وليست منفصلة وهي القراءة الابتدائية ثم التفحصية ثم التحليلية ثم القراءات المتزامنة التعددية حول موضوع واحدوكل مستوى له عدة خطوات لتحقيقه واوضح الفرق بين العلم والفلسفة والكتب النظرية والتطبيقية وكيف يمكن قراءة التاريخ والسير الذاتية والرياضيات والعلوم والفلسفة وكيفية الحكم على الكتب بشكل موضوعيفي النهاية الكتاب يعلمك كيف تقرأ كتابا وتستفيد منه الى اقصى حد كتاب ممتع ومفيد ويستحق القراءة ولولا الترجمة لقيمته ب 5 نجوم
Inspired by a listening to a Susan Wise Bauer lecture on self education, I set aside time before my morning workout to read a book.
I took all of Adler's advice on how to REALLY read a book to heart.
The trend today is for authors to begin each book that deals with how to embark upon a new venture or how to approach an old venture in a new way by saying, "This seems hard but it is really QUITE EASY!" Not Adler.
Adler tells you upfront: Reading a book well is hard.
الكتاب قيم للغاية و ينبه لاشياء لم تكن تلفت انتباهك كقارئ معتاد على الكتب كما الطعام عانيت ازمة صراحة بسببه و هبطت معنوياتي اذ بدا لي انني لست الا في المرحلة الأولى من القراءة لكنه مع هذا مفيد للغاية و انصح بقرائته .
And we should be talking back to the authors, finding the truth or fallacies in what they say, analyzing their words and coming up with our own to counter theirs.While this book was very strong in explaining the whys of reading better, I felt it fell a little flat in the how department, especially in the sections at the end explaining how to read specific types of books.
Those second type of books are the ones we should be looking for and reading.I feel like I've now gotten everything from this book that it has to teach me.
It changed the way I read books (I read primarily non-fiction).
This book taught me the value of skimming books as a way of time management.
In general, this book has taught me how to approach reading such that I can benefit more from (and therefore better appreciate) a book and all the thought and effort put therein by its author.For more eloquent and comprehensive praise, see amazon.com's reviews.Note: I get weird looks from people when they see its title.
Helpful guide to reading books seriously and getting more out of what you read. Invaluable, now more than ever.
part two: third level, analytic reading 6) pigeonholing a book 7) x-raying a book 8) coming to terms with an author 9) determining author's message 10) criticizing a book fairly 11) agreeing or disagreeing with an author 12) aids to reading.part three: approaches to different kinds of reading 13) how to read practical books 14) imaginative literature 15) suggestions for stories, plays, poems 16) history 17) science and math 18) philosophy 19) social science.part four: ultimate goals of reading 20) syntopical reading 21) reading and growth of your mind.for me, i recognize that as the levels progress they blend together and no longer follow each other, that i have part one primarily as unconscious, usually very good, skills.
it is a friendly, helpful, book that offers the reader an awareness if not simply practical advice on how to read.
هذا الكتاب يُعد كتاباً تطبيقياً حيث يتضمن القواعد اللازم اتباعها عند قراءة كل كتاب وفقا لتصنيفه و تذ
Sebelum tu, aku nak promo; aku ada copyleft buku ni. Buku ni mesti dimiliki oleh setiap pembaca buku. Boleh hubungi aku di 0129611812 (sms/telegram/whatsapp)Buku yang bagus. Aku tak sangka ada buku ni sebenarnya. Dan bila aku perasan, lama nenar aku mencari buku ni. Dalam buku ni aku sudah praktikkan beberapa perkara, tapi aku tak perasan yang perkara itu aku praktikkan.Buku ni wajar dibaca oleh anak-anak sekolah atau universiti untuk dapat membaca secara berkesan.
Syntopical reading is possible only for those who already have a decent grasp of analytical reading.The authors admit that to follow their method completely is hard, time-consuming work, and appropriate only for the most worthy texts.
That's why it's important to master the skills of inspectional reading, which allow us to gain a quick idea of which books deserve this deluxe treatment.I myself have applied Adler and Van Doren's methods to only a few books so far, and have not completed the method for any one book (it is indeed a lot of work).
ففي هذا الكتاب يشرح أدلر وبشكل علمي وموضوعي الغايات من القراءة والطرق التي من الممكن إستخدامها لتحصيل الفائدة المرجوة من فعل القراءة.وقد تحدث الكتاب أيضاً..
ونجده وقد قسمّ القراءة إلى عدة مستويات تراكمية بحيث أنه كلما تقدمت في المستوى تضمنت بانجازك هذا المستويات السابقة.
المستوى الأول: القراءة الإبتدائية وهي التي تجيب عن السؤال: ماذا تقوله هذه الجملة ؟2.
4. المستوى الرابع: القراءة المرجعية: وهي القراءة الموجهة لموضوع واحد وفيها يقرأ المرء عدة كتب عن ذات الموضوع ويدرك علاقة الترابط بين هذه الكتب من جهة وبين الموضوع الأصلي للقراءة.يوجد أربعة أسئلة يجيب أن تجيبها بعد قراءة كل كتاب:1.
This volume really helped me organize the way that I read and helped me be discerning regarding what books to read.One idea from the book that I still recall 30 years later is his discussion about teachers, dead and alive.
Books were the dead teachers, but teachers nonetheless.
And as a result of the published work, one could get to know the teacher if the work was of good quality and you, the student, asked quality questions of the teacher.I highly recommend this volume as it is timeless in many of its parts.My criticism today would be the recommended reading list.
