https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/898567.The_Blackbirder
Three quarters of this book verges on storytelling perfection, only to be let down by a messy ending.Julie is a refugee from Nazi occuppied Paris, living in American illegally.
The opening chapter sets up a chance meeting with an old friend, an unexpected death and an impromtu flight across America to escape persecution.
Now days, you can hardly find her books in print – although several have been reissued as ebooks (which I have a hard time reading).
The main character, Julie Gaulle, is a woman who has escaped from Germany and is now living in America until she can find the “blackbirder” who can get her to Mexico, where she can begin to live under realistic circumstances.
In the meantime, however, she suspects that she is being tailed by members of the German organization to take her back to their country, where her family occupies a relatively high status.
Mid century noir!Julie Guille is in trouble and must flee New York.On the run from the Gestapo , the FBI and her Uncle.Her options are running out.The Blackbirder for the right price can promise a safe passage to New Mexico but who is the Blackbirder?An engrossing read.
Julie Guille, aka Juliet Marlebone, has been on the run for three years since fleeing occupied Paris and her vile pro-Nazi uncle; she's managed to reach New York by way of Portugal and Cuba.
She realizes she could be a suspect and, besides, as an illegal immigrant she can't afford to be questioned by the cops.
Hughes has a kind of breathless style, and it perfectly matches the subject matter here.She also has an unusual way with words, which can be quite disconcerting until you get used to it.
However, as the story progressed it improved and then the incredible plotting kept me entranced.
And I loved the ending.
The story was thus intensified as there was no knowledge of how things would end in that respect.
I have no idea if this novel has ever been filmed, but it felt very movie-like and I would love to see it on the big screen.
Particularly if they were to film it all in black and white - I think it would need the atmosphere that that would create.
All in all I loved this book and will be seeking out more of this author's work.
Maxl might have ordered the man to watch.”Julie Guille is in New York, having escaped from occupied Paris, she is on the run from the gestapo and the FBI – her entry into the US illegal.
Not everyone is who they seem, but Julie can never let her suspicions show, she agrees to a drink with Maxl, where she is convinced she is being watched by the waiter.
The Blackbirder aids refugees across the border to New Mexico, and with Maxl dead outside her apartment, and the gestapo, FBI and her guardian all looking for her, he is, Julie is convinced her best chance of escape from the US.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
24 jun 16, 1st from hughes for me...saw it listed in a list of stories also published by that one press i mentioned two reviews back...was it in the last macdonald,john d, story i read i believe so...coming to me...revval press?
i like how nobody, really, in this story knows what the other is doing, thinking, what their purpose is.
and yeah, this is another "book revivals press" and it must be listed amongst the groupings to do with wimmen.
but in this one, they spelled "revivals" right.
the other has things like 111 for i'll, other kindle-typos.
This story follows Julie Guille, a young woman who has entered the U.S. illegally after escaping Nazi occupied France. Hughes draws readers into this fast paced suspense thriller by evoking the fear and paranoia of WW II. This book is packed with undercover FBI agents, Nazis, and people suspected of being involved in German Fifth Columnist operations. "The Blackbirder" represents a classic spy thriller with its plot of wartime espionage and refugees seeking freedom from Fascist rule. I thoroughly enjoyed this thriller--it was a definite page turner that left me on the edge of my seat until the end.
Crisp little World War II European refugee heroine fleeing through New York and New Mexico searching for cousin not knowing who to trust. Hughes is consummate narrator with some lovely turns of phrase and super visual (yes movie-esque) pacing and narrative form. I kept visualizing it as an RKO B picture from 1946 directed by John Farrow starring Jane Greer as Julie, Richard Widmark as Blaike, and Claud Rains as Paul. Well, I can dream, can't I?
I love sitting down, opening a Dorothy Hughes, and reading right to the end. All at once. I didn't quite get to do that with this, but close, and it's a page turner. This in spite of treating people and places I know very well as exotic scenery. But that is what it is, and I like the idea of fighting Nazis in New Mexico.
I'm a big fan of Dorothy B. Hughes and this WWII spy thriller didn't disappoint. The Feminist Press edition I read was riddled with typos, as usual. (I've heard their later editions are better edited though, so this may have changed.) Definitely worth a read, in any edition.
It's the middle of WW2, and Dorothy Hughes's protagonist Juliet Marlebone is on the lam, fleeing the rap for a murder she didn't commit while possibly being pursued by both the US government and gestapo agents.
She needs to get to New Mexico, where she believes she can be flown out of the country, to Mexico, by a mysterious pilot called the Blackbirder.
The beginning of the book was really strong, and so was the end, but in between I felt like I needed more information as to plot.
I would recommend other books by Dorothy Hughes more enthusiastically.
Very good WWII era intrigue novel. No one is as they seem, not even our protagonist Julie/t, on the run from Nazis and the FBI in the U.S. This is somewhat let down by a weak ending, but it's a rollicking and well constructed yarn nonetheless.
I really have enjoyed Dorothy Hughes's writing. This book is not as razor-sharp as others of hers that I have read, but she is a terrific writer of noir. I do not understand why she is not as well known as Chandler or Hammett.
People try to figure out who they can trust during WWII.Some of this book was good, but overall it left me a bit cold as the plot seemed to jump around and the writing felt dated.Overall rating 2.5
Breathless prose forced me to give up at about 30 pages in.
I have to say I was a little disappointed in this book, set in WWII the main character was supposed to be travelling throughout Europe and the states evading Nazis.
I think the most interesting thing about this book was the white people’s perceptions of the Indians living in New Mexico, and the barriers between the culture and the racism that barely got mentioned.
I think it was particularly striking to read, after having read the amazing Women’s barracks by Teresa Torres which is published as part of the same series that was a book by a French author about French women in WWII, and was much more passionate, interesting and insightful.
I'm a big, big BIG library user, but I'm glad none of my libraries have this series 'cause that means I have an excuse to unscrew my pocketbook and buy them.But...I think this was the worst one I've read so far.
Maybe because it was spy/thriller genre, which I don't normally read.
Mostly it was because all the tension & mystery comes from (classic spy trope) not knowing who to trust.
It was just the idiot heroine who kept insisting (to herself, to the reader) "I must never trust that man" (AKA kindly FBI agent) and poor, frightened artist I must protect him (AKA evil Nazi stooge).
Pretty intense noir thriller that engages from the get go. Like the style Hughes writes in. Nice to have a female protagonist in this WWII page turner!
Pulp novel from the 40s about a refugee from occupied France in New York caught up in a murder investigation and on the run from the FBI and the Gestapo. She flees to Santa Fe where she hopes to find “the Blackbirder” a smuggler who carries passengers across the Mexican border. A taut paranoid noir.
Read for a book club, very engaging story of noir fiction. Dark but not graphically violent, Hughes is great at creating s sense of fear. Set during WW II, intrigue abounds. Much of the story takes place in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Due to a review here on goodreads I bought this ebook and really enjoyed it. The tension is set up to keep any armchair reader on the edge of the seat. I had not heard of this author before and glad I took this one for a spin. Goodreads is a great place to be introduced to works new to the reader.
WWII era noir suspense by a female author with a female lead that is gripping and stark while maintaining a believable protagonist whose femininity is not used to undermine her core agency. Ahead of its time to say the least.
Super solid espionage pulp. Cinematic, and it hits all the right paranoid notes. Hughes' super capable heroines make my day, and Julie Guille is no exception. Great storytelling.
A real ripping yarn. It stretched credulity occasionally, but I forgave it as it was such a great read!
A frightened woman in post-WWII America has to deal with issues she thought resolved in the war and has to figure out who is trustworthy in her life.
Fascinating period piece!
A brilliant protagonist and wonderful plotting - a true gem rescued from obscurity.
A great paranoid noir, up until the end, which ties it all up too neatly. But most of the way through, it was brilliantly unsettling.
