https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/512704.Gentlemen_Prefer_Blondes
”So when I got through telling Dorothy what I thought up. Dorothy looked at me and looked at me and she really thought my brains were a miracle. I mean she said my brains reminded her of a radio because you listen to it for days and days and you get discouraged and just when you are getting ready to smash it, something comes out that is a masterpiece.” Beauty can be born just about anywhere. It can appear in blue stocking families, or come from hard working blue collar families, or it can even o
Dorothy, played so well by Jane Russell in the movie, is attracted to a different sort of man than Lorelei.When I was going to college, I experienced frequent bouts of poverty, not Grapes of Wrath poverty, but I certainly had many moments where all the money I had in the world was jingling in my pocket...and not very loudly.
Anita Loos, the author of this book, also worked on the screenplay for the movie by the same name.
Anita Loos, beautiful and smart, and very not blonde.I laughed many times while reading this book.
So I wondered how I would be a social success there it is quite different from New York but luckily I met a gentleman called Mr. Paul Bryant who took an interest in me and wanted to help me improve my mind.
Mr. Bryant said it is very very easy you just post a review that is a bit riskay and has an artistic picture at the top.
But Mr. Bryant said that unfortunately he was to busy today to go shopping.I like the Internet very very much but I think I will go back to New York because the gentlemen there know how to treat a lady.
Here is what Edith Wharton called the Great American Novel, and when it showed up on the Guardian's Top 100 English Novels list it was suggested that perhaps she was being sarcastic.
And I'm going to venture to suggest that it may not have been the Novel that Wharton was feeling sarcastic about.There's a straight line between Gentlemen Prefer Blondes' Lorelei and Marilyn Monroe and Madonna, just as there's a line between Dorothy Parker and Sylvia Plath and Lena Dunham, and you can see why Dorothy Parker found it necessary to rebut this book with her short story Big Blonde; these are different archetypes here, and they don't go to the same parties.
And having lived in NewYork and Paris, she probably got a laugh out of Lorelei's escapades through those cities.Don't be mislead into thinking this is a shallow book, pandering to a sex crazy, Jazz Age, male audience.
No, Anita Loos aims a little higher than that, with a parody of the female stereotypes created by the Hollywood film industry of the 1920s.
And along the way she creates Lorelei Lee from Little Rock Arkansas, one of the truly iconic characters in 20th century American literature.
While I got a laugh out of the story and characters, along the way I may have learned something about human nature and single minded determination.
No muy lejos de ella está ese otro gran personaje que es Nick Corey, el entrañable sheriff que creó Jim Thomson en su fantástica novela 1280 almas, aunque en el caso de Lorelei los asesinaditos solo serían las cuentas corrientes de los licenciosos caballeros que caen bajo su embrujo; o ese otro gran tonto-listo que es Manolito, el hijo del tendero del barrio de Mafalda, con el que quizás comparta Lorelei, al contrario que con el personaje de Thompson, una inocencia que a ellos les impide tener remordimientos y a nosotros censurarlos por malintencionados.
Driving to school to pick up Georgia only 45 minutes ago! (how up to the minute is this review?), on the Radio is "Brain of Britain 2013", a general knowledge contest. One of the questions :Who wrote Gentlemen Prefer Blondes?Contestant ponders, then says"Henry James"Now, wouldn't that have been something? Anita Loos gets the idea for "The Wings of the Dove" and Henry James gets the idea for "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes : The Illuminating Diary of a Professional Lady"... I'd buy them both.
This book was a lot of fun. It was recently brought to my attention by a fellow goodreads pal (thank you Paul) I was able to find a copy in our local library that had it stored in its basement. It included the original borrowing records showing it was 1st checked out April 1930 and completed with fabulous illustrations. The story is one long scream and left me very intreeged to improve my brain and find more writing by Loos, providing I can talk my maid into reading it for me.
Having asked why this lady inspired such interest, she deduced it was her blonde hair that caused such slavish devotion and an idea was born.Lorelei Lee tells her story as a diary; from her life in a small town and her re-naming in a courtroom after a little trouble which, later in the story, comes back to haunt her.
This is a sly look about a young woman who uses her beauty, and charm, to get the most that she can out of life.
Lorelei has a very sensible idea about the world, and her place in it, and this audio book was a delight to listen to.
" So Mr. Spoffard spends all of his time looking at things that spoil peoples morals.
So Mr. Spoffard really must have very strong morals or else all the things that spoil other peoples morals would spoil his morals.
But they do not seem to spoil Mr. Spoffards morals and I really think it is wonderful to have such strong morals.
How can it possibly be that only one of my goodreads friends has read this and yet James Joyce couldn't resist it?In the 1920s, Anita Loos, a gorgeous intelligent brunette Hollywood writer became pretty well pissed off at the fact that the men around her preferred dumb blondes. This hilarious book is the result of her venting her spleen on the matter. It can be read on various levels, certainly as a biting satire of Western values both in America and Europe. It was a huge seller at the time, one of those books that appeal to all.Rest here:http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
Review of the audiobook edition:This Audible edition starts with an introduction and a preface (I guess) which are labelled as Chapters 1 and 2. If, like me, you prefer to skip introductions, then start with Chapter 3!Patrice O'Neill's voice was excellent for this novel; a bit reminiscent of Marilyn Monroe in the film version but not overly so.

I had such a fabulous time reading this book. Alone at my Aunts house, I liberated it from the back of a bookcase and spent the next two hours giggling hysterically on the sofa. My family came home and thought I'd gotten into the liquor cabinet.
All men suddenly become willing to part with their money when they meet Lorelei.Lorelei hails from Little Rock Arkansas.
He was a little too ardent in his pursuit, Lorelei found herself holding a revolver, and as she puts it, the revolver shot her admirer.
This could have caused her some inconvenience, but luckily the judge and the gentlemen of the jury were all very sweet about it.Now Lorelei has been sent to Europe by another admirer to educate herself.
Lorelei has nothing against love but she considers it eccentric to fall in love with men who are not rich.
Romanzi di viaggi di oceano Ebbene dimenticavo di ricordare che il signore inglese che scrive novelle sembra aver preso un grande interesse per me non appena ha scoperto che sono un tipo letterario.
Dirò che ha telefonato tutti i giorni e che sono stata due volte con lui a prendere il the.
Sembra che siano tutti su viaggi di oceani, sebbene non abbia avuto che il tempo di dare loro un’occhiata.
Ho sempre preferito i romanzi di viaggi di oceano fin da quando posavo con il signor Christie per la copertina di un libro su viaggi di oceano del signor Mc Groth, perché dico sempre che una ragazza non fa mai abbastanza figura come sul ponte di un battello…
This is the novel that far outshone "The Great Gatsby" during its time, and I can see why. Funnier and light hearted, this is a different story of social ambition, delivered in the voice of a barely educated but ruthless and cunning girl from the Middle West. Full of absolute shameless wit, the slim novel picks apart the era's hypocrisy until you have to cheer on Lorelei and Dorothy while they bend the rich men to their will and collect their rewards.
I have never laughed so many times in one sitting in my entire lifetime of reading than I did with this book. Nor laughed so hard. It probably helps that I have traveled a lot, and to the same places these women were traveling, but I recommend this book to EVERY female on the planet. It will tickle you pink.
Picked up a copy of the original edition (later printing, though) at a library book sale years ago. It’s somewhat amusing but almost insufferably mannered. It’s written as the diary of a genially gold-digging flapper who keeps writing things like “a girl like I can really appreciate the Eyefull Tower”. It reads as one long “Shouts and Murmurs” column from the New Yorker. The Art Deco-y line illustrations are really wonderful, though.
Movie far exceeds book—maybe because movie is told from a more sincere perspective (the brunette's) rather than just satirizing the blonde mercilessly. (Not saying movie lacks irony—far from it—or that the book lacks humor; however, the book just beats one joke to death.) Book's at best when Dorothy is talking.
I honestly believed I would enjoy this book despite the 101 problems I had with the story after seeing the adaption, but I really didn’t. The narration was boring and I much preferred the film to the book.
2.5. Basically, this is a guide book for baracudas. Watch the movie instead.
Decades before Marilyn, Madonna or Holly Golightly, the 20th century’s first Material Girl was Lorelei Lee, from Little Rock, Arkansas.
Like Mencken, the men in Loos’ novel – Gus Eisman the Button King, Sir ‘Piggie’ Beekman, Louie and Robber (a father & son team of Parisian avocats), the Prince of Wales, and even Sigmund ‘Froyd’ – don’t stand a chance against Lorelei, whose charming antics open wallets and set loose an amaranthine stream of champagne, orchids, diamonds.
When Lorelei’s chatter gets to be a little too grating, her traveling companion Dorothy will let fly one of her zingers (some of the best lines in the book) that resurrects the humor and spurs on your reading.
I didn’t even know it had been a book until I saw a stray comment about it in Bill Bryson’s One Summer.
It’s been years since I’ve seen the movie, but I don’t remember it being this smart (or Lorelei being, for all intents and purposes, a professional mistress this side of a prostitute).
The book, told from the grammatically-troubled perspective of Lorelei Lee, is a biting satire.
Lorelei is both stupid and brilliant.
She’s deft at manipulating the men around her even as they use her, and the book is written in a way that smoothly glosses over the darker subtext of some of the events.
Although the plot differs quite a bit from the movie, it is impossible not to imagine Marilyn Monroe as the narrator.
Packed off on a whirlwind tour of Europe by her benefactor ("The Button King of Chicago"), Lorelei seeks to become "educated." However, she notes, in London "they make a great fuss over a tower that is really not even as tall as the Hickox building in Little Rock Arkansas." The only things that can impress a world class Gold Digger with a sense of historical reverence are the Cartier and Coty shops in Paris (along with the various Ritz Hotels populated with Americans who actually like to spend money).
I probably would have given this 5 stars if it wasn't for the fact it was written by Anita Loos, who from all I've read of her makes my skin crawl.
I'm surprised her autobiography A Girl Like I, is rated so highly on Goodreads, because I though that was easily one of the most meanspirited books I've ever read.
I think that takes a bit of the fun from Gentlemen Prefer Blondes for me.
Since the entire book (supposedly) was a joke against her mentor HL Mencken (I don't like him much either actually) and his fondness for scheming blondes.

My subsequent reading about the background to this classic revealed that it is a parody of the shallow lives of the flapper girls in the '30's. Well it certainly is shallow. In fact the central character is SO shallow, irritating, ditzy and amoral that I couldn't read it anymore. I basically skipped through to the end and found that she indeed wiled her way into the arms of a millionaire and lived happily ever after. Good for her.
This was such a classic spoof at the time and still a very funny read today. Loos was a star in her own right. I was walking through WGA headquarters today and saw a picture of her mobbed by fans, bobbed hair, looking a bit stunned by her sudden fame. She is the queen of irony and, oh, about six to eight decades ahead of her time.
A charming, bloggy novel narrated by a cheerfully moronic sociopath.It takes a lot of balls--or an already-well-established career--to write in the first-person voice of such a dumb dame. Loos was brave.
Loved it! Tore through it!
