https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18864.The_Rum_Diary
Thompson articulates within the pages of this story the mindset of the hopeful lost, the starry-eyed cynics of the world, the trouble-making peace hunters like myself, a section of society whose collective voice he succinctly captures within this quote: 
Thompson's travels gave me a burst of inspiration to get up, prioritize, and to take care of whatever necessary nonsense that I must endure in order to one day see a place such as this for myself.
This book was brutally normal. It went along nice and regular for a while and then something happens and you are sort of left to wonder how you should feel about it. Hunter S. Thompson is cool and collected in his thoughts and it really feels genuine. John Zelazny is another emerging Aspen writer and he is picking up where Thompson left off.
Loved this. Loved everything about it.
Most people who deal in words don't have much fait in them and I am no exception -- especially the big ones like Happy and Love and Honest and Strong.
I feel at home with these, because they're scrawny and easy to pin, but the big ones are tough and it takes either a priest or a fool to use them with any confidence.' - Hunter S.
Even early Thompson had the sweaty, sharp, twisted prose that hits you in the head like a half-empty Bacardi bottle.
There are passages here which point forwards to the sad-beautiful 'wave' riff in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, that paean to a moment forever lost when the generation of idealistic youth gave way to the generation of swine.The story, such as it is, tells of Paul Kemp, a disillusioned journalist in his early thirties who has moved to San Juan, Puerto Rico, to work on a local newspaper.
This is the kind of book that you either adore or feel indifferent for.
Paul is an arrogant journalist who makes his way from New York to Puerto Rico to work at the only English-language paper on the island.
The characters are unconvincing and like I said, there is no plot going on.The eye of Paul is too depressing, because he finds nothing beautiful, everything is grey to him.
Paul and Chenault have a flat connection, if there even is one.
Sure, there is sexual tension between them, but I feel like it's there because they're both bored of the life in Puerto Rico.
By the end of the story he has landed a beautiful girl who is simultaneously innocent and whorish.
In between there are several rather pointless episodes of newsroom politics, and a stint at the Carnival which is climaxed by the girl dancing naked at a party: exposed to a pointedly non-white audience she clinches the narrators sympathy.
Otherwise, it is a bit of a ramble, punctuated by iced rum, hamburgers, swimming, and men saying 'balls'.
Attitudes that seemed to be at the time of writing the author's own he would later satrize to great effect.It looks like this is going to be a movie.
Not sure what the purpose of this book was.
Throughout reading I struggled to find any semblance of a plot as the drunken Paul Kemp meandered through a series of rum bottles and dull conversations with equally dull characters.
My rating: 2/5 stars.
I couldn't get into this, luckily the audio edition was only 3hrs and 55mins long so it's not like I wasted a lot of time on the book.
Campbell Scott was a decent enough narrator but he could only do so much with the drab 'story' if it can be called that.
My recommendation: avoid, there are too many good books waiting to be read.
It’s so dated it stinks.
I can’t imagine who would like to read it, really.
Old boys, priests of the cult of St. Hemingway, who feel nostalgic about the good times when women, coloreds, and queers knew their place?
Thompson isn’t one of them.It’s a sad and Tragic story of tough white Guys who are alone and Depressed in the place full of wild Puerto Ricans, and so they must get Drunk.
If a guy doesn’t stink of Feet and likes to dress smart, he must be a Queer.
Only get Drunk on Rum. Maybe read Conrad.
Hunter Thompson's original ambition was to be a novelist, and he wrote two unpublished novels, Prince Jellyfish and The Rum Diary, before he became a star of New Journalism and abandoned fiction for good.
Prince Jellyfish has not seen the light of day, except in a short, forgettable excerpt, but The Rum Diary did, well after the fact.And it's not very good.
The Rum Diary is the derivative early attempt of a young (22-year-old) writer, and it's likely that it would never have been published had Thompson not subsequently become famous -- and had he not been so careless of his reputation as a writer.
This is a mediocre semi-biographical novel about a very ill tempered, drunkard of a journalist. The whole book is just a content battle with jealousy, treachery, violent alcoholism and lust but this book doesn’t really move very fast and seems to feel like it drags way too much. I was expecting something exciting but the plot seemed to drag on and while hinting at a plot this book never really took off. Maybe as a movie it would be cut down enough to make a plot but as a book this seemed to drag on way too much.
Large portion of the book was very descriptive; it’s like reading a strong-opinionated newspaper article about Puerto Rico and its appalling inhabitants.
The Rum Diary opens very promising, with snippets of office politics, masculine desperation and one’s search to find the meaning of life in a foreign land.
Thompson got a way to keep me on the edge of my seat.
The man’s got way with words.
The only problem I encountered was, through the eyes of protagonist Paul Kemp, Thompson didn’t portray either the Puerto Ricans or the Americans in a very kind way.
Substitute "newspaper" for "band" and you've got the basic plot structure of this book.Paul Kemp, the protagonist, arrives in Puerto Rico from New York in the late 1950s with not much money but some talent and a taste for the exotic experiences San Juan has to offer.
'Here I was, living in a luxury hotel, ,racing around a half-Latin city in a toy car that looked like a cockroach and sounded like a jet fighter, sneaking down alleys and humping on the beach, scavenging for food in shark-infested waters, hounded by mobs yelling in a foreign tongue - and the whole thing was taking place in quaint old Spanish Puerto Rico...'I would guess that in the time that lapsed in this story, a couple tons of rum was consumed.
She mostly had garbage travel books and lonely planet guides, but I did spot The Rum Diary (1961) in the corner of my eye, and being a fan of Hunter S.
Thompson fan I realised this was a great opportunity to read his first novel, which was written in 1961 but not published until 1998 - a late bloomer if there ever was one.
Thompson, then you should start by reading Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, his best work by a long shot (unlike The Rum Diary, the film adaptation of Fear and Loathing is actually very good.)
I think books should carry a misogyny warning box on the cover; just an FYI for the discerning reader.
I could have used a warning of that ilk before beginning this book.
Gross mistreatment, blatant abuse, and general lack of respect for women aside, I found the book disappointing.
Even his internal dialogue about his current state of affairs, maybe meant to be poignant with its self-flagellating, unforgiving tone (?), fell flat.
I think I may need to review the political/historical context in which Thomson was writing.
but, maybe faux-meaningful drunken carousing just isn't my genre.
You know they're making a movie of The Rum Diary with Johnny Depp?
Too bad I wasn't here when they were filming.It makes me wonder why these kinds of stories live on and on.
I was especially disgusted by the story of the girl who "...went crazy - totally crazy" and then in the next paragraph is called a "whore" because she was drunk and was being objectified.
I'm so tired of women being described as crazy or a whore when truthfully it is the men around them that are the assholes.
I ask who are the actual crazy whores?
Thompson mostly wrote about his experiences, The Rum Diary is probably about as fictional as say Kerouac's On The Road.
Having worked for newspapers, I enjoyed living vicariously through the main character Paul Kemp "who, in the 1950s, moves from New York to work for a major newspaper, The Daily News, in San Juan, Puerto Rico." (Wikipedia) The struggle to get the story, the weak pay, oddball co-workers and foreign assignments are all dreams and nightmares of the typical journalist, and so it was easy to slide into a comfort-read with The Rum Diary.
The brevity of The Rum Diary is what really sells it for me.
New review:I’d love to go to the Caribbean and do nothing but drink rum for a few months.
I will be sure to read it again one day and I aim to be pretentious while doing so and have a glass of iced rum in my hand at the same time.Old review:I read this book when I was in limbo between living in London and Manchester.
It was a great read for someone who had an aimless few months before joining the corporate world and I began to wish I had had this man's life.
Thompson's work.
Ashamedly, I have not read any of his legitimate Gonzo journalism, and I understand that this is not an appropriate representation of his more psychedelic work.
However, from the standpoint of an everyday novel, this is one of the best non-crime fiction, non-science fiction, non-Vonnegut mundane fiction that I have read in a long time.I don't anticipate all of Hunter's work to resonate the same way this work has, but I don't want to dismiss this as some early immature work of his.
It simply reads as a completely different type of novel from what I expected..a welcome surprise.
"I was not proud of what I had learned but I never doubted it was worth knowing." Rum. Lots of rum. And few hamburgers. Some debauchery. A little journalism. I liked it. This semi-autobiographical novel was the second book Thompson penned yet was not published until 1998, presumably for financial reasons.
What really made this novel, though, was the colorful cast of supporting characters in a Puerto Rico that was as much a new frontier for Americans as anything else.Knowing that a film adaptation was being made, it was hard not to insert Johnny Depp and Amber Heard into the roles of Paul Kemp and Chenault, respectively, because they were the two casting decisions I remembered having read about.
*I think my appreciation for Amber Heard has to be on the record somewhere...** The early books in the Dennis Lehane Kenzie/Gennaro series are the only loose exception I can think of immediately.Back to the book, though, Thompson pens a novel in which the protagonist sits back watching those around him act erratically.
This is one of my favorite books of all time.
It is by far my favorite HST book.
I recently re-read it for the first time in about 15 years and I was struck by not only how well my memory of it served, but by how much the story changed for me reading it now in my 30s as opposed to when I first read it in my teens.
While all of Thompson's work has a defeatist undercurrent of despair, The Rum Diary always struck me as the most authentic.
"I was reminded of those old magnetic clocks...of [school] classrooms...every now and then a hand would not more for several minutes...the sudden click of the hand jumping three or four notches would startle me when it came," writes Thompson in his twenties, lost, looking for purpose, for love, etc.
Truthfully, I had to push myself to read 15 pages a day to get through it.
And now, it's about time for my 5th or so reading of the great "Sun Also Rises".
This is Thompson's first work, and there is a VERY good reason why it was "long lost": see review above.
Książka Thompsona na moim czytelniczym horyzoncie „mieniła” się już od bodajże dwóch lat.
Ale jest ono jak najbardziej trafne.
The Rum Diary można nazwać wręcz hymnem pochwalnym ku czci światowym zapasom rumu.
Warto również zwrócić uwagę na fakt, że gloryfikowanie alkoholu, o którym już wcześniej wspomniałem, jest czymś znamiennym dla tekstów Thompsona.
Przeczytajcie sami.The Rum Diary to ekscytująca książka, z którą warto się zapoznać.
Tym razem wydała mi się już trochę gorsza.
Ale gdy otworzyłem w końcu ten „alkoholowy tomik”, wsiąknąłem, dosłownie zanurzyłem się w tekście.
A po zakończeniu pozostanie kac, ale w tym wypadku głowa boleć nie będzie.
Resultado, ainda não fui ver o filme mas já li o livro!Sendo um livro pequeno, e com uma história sem grandes detalhes, O Diário a Rum é daqueles que se lê bem e dá para passar o tempo, principalmente se for o vosso género.
Percebe-se a mensagem que o autor nos quer dar, afinal, ataques ao capitalismo ou qualquer outra coisa que venha da América, é o que não tenho faltado nas últimas décadas, mas parece ser apenas mais uma dessas mensagens, sem grande pensamento ou esforço.Muitos dizem que este não é o melhor trabalho do autor, o que eu acredito.
Nevertheless, none of that stopped me from mentally reading the sentences in Duke's (i.e. Depp as Duke's) voice, with that singular cadence, rhythm, syntax.
Really a pretty standard novel (the upcoming movie looks like it features outlandish scenes that do not exist in the book).-Reading this impelled me to go back and leaf through Gonzo, which really is a good biography.-Many of Thompson's descriptive paragraphs do seem to get recycled (in this and Fear and Loathing at least).
-Finally, the dialogue in many places is very stiff and just unnatural sounding (even when read in Duke/Depp's unique syntax).Still, I "really liked it."
Tapping into the alcohol, sexiness and unapologetic excess that would define the later Gonzo style of the "Fear and Loathing..." works, "The Rum Diary" finds Hunter in the makings of his talent.
You also get an excellent early glimpse into the soul and idealism that also makes up Hunter's personality.
Depp needed to find the perfect work that exhibited Hunter in the personality as he truly was to the people that knew him, rather than the crazy, Doonesbury-like caricature that he would become and eventually how people later remembered him.
God knows how our current world would have been like without the musings and incredible works of HST.
I've read mostly everything else HST has written, and had heard of this early novel, but hadn't found it on the library shelves.
It's clear that this is early work, it lacks the bite of the Gonzo.
Maybe the narrator is HST at the time he wrote this - not young and naive anymore, but experienced to know what his future held and learning his chops as he rolled along like a beach ball in the surf.Another, perhaps Yeamon - is Thompson as he would like to see himself - the wild, aimless wanderer who knows he'll never starve as long as he has a typewriter or a pen and paper.All in all, a good read.
So. Much. Rum. Hunter S. Thompson though..... damn, his gonzo journalism style takes you right to the heart of Puerto Rico, you feel everything the way I'm sure he experienced everything. Not a 5 as it doesn't reveal any essential human truths aside from that of 'if you're going to do anything, might as well be drunk'."Balls," said Yeamon.
