https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112715.Candy
if the difference in appeal between reading pornography and reading erotica is in the artistry of the language and the sophistication & depth of the emotions conveyed, then perhaps the difference between reading erotica and reading the erotic literary novel is in the richness of its thematic elements.
Candy's depiction of a very horny 50s america is also a depiction of the various obsessions and bugaboos of that time period, and in that way it is somewhat interesting.
and the various sexy scenarios were actually not very hot at all.still, the novel is not without its worth, as a relic of its time.
I read this book a few times the summer between the 6th and 7th grades.Candy taught me to refer to grown-up lady-parts as honey pots and spice boxes.I wish I had known at the time that this was supposed to be satire.
Few are the books which deliver on all possible levels and to all possible audiences, and Candy reigns supreme as their undisputed queen. There are those who might disagree with me, but there are also folk that don't believe dinosaurs existed since they aren't mentioned in the Bible. So don't be a hater; get up off your Candy(less)-ass, drum up a plan to finagle a copy of this book, and jump on the bandwagon of the winning team. I have absolutely no doubts that my persuasive intro convinced you
After catching Candy preparing to fellate the totally stereotypical and monosyllabic Mexican gardener, Emmanuel, his thoughts are revealed: “It was not as though he couldn’t believe his eyes, for it was a scene that had formed a part of many of his most lively and hideous dreams - dreams which began with Candy be ravished, first by Mephesto, then by foreigners, then by negroes, then gorillas, then bulldogs, then donkeys, horses, mules, kangaroos, elephants, rhinos, and finally, in the grand finale, by all of them at once, grouped around different parts of her, though it was Candy who was the aggressor, she who was voraciously ravishing them, frantically forcing the bunched and spurting organs into every orifice, vagina, anus, mouth, ears, nose….he had even dreamed once that she asked him if it were true that there was a small uncovered opening in the pupil of the eye, because if it were she would have room there for a praying mantis.” Daddy is our type of man; utterly and completely fucking ridiculous!!
Now, while I was reading Candy I couldn't help but notice remarkable similarities: Candy Christian behaves more like a battery-operated talking fuckdoll than a human being, just like...
Candy is comprised of a series of disconnected events (calling it a "plot" is something I have a lot of reservations about.) just like Barbarella...
she thought.And this passage:The hunchback was lying naked, curled on his side like a big foetus, when Candy appeared before him, standing for a moment in full lush radiance, a naked angel bearing the supreme gift.
Anyone who has read S.
2/14 - I've been reading other reviews and feel I should add a note.
Another "gentleman" said that the ridiculous situations Candy finds herself in, i.e. a full gynecological exam in a public restroom, a Buddha statue's nose shoved up her ass as a penis fills her front, are all situations that men, being the oversexed beings they are, truly believe could happen.
They don't, but true men are always ready.
If and when...If I had read that review first I know I would have been more amused by this book than sickened.
I actually laughed aloud on the bus when I came to this, spouted by the lascivious Aunt Liv: "I'm in the mood for cock and plenty of it!
Methinks the book is falling apart a bit after the terrific flowing momentum of its first third.
Surprisingly, the book is not as dirty as a lot of people seem to be suggesting.
It's hard to think of anyone getting off to this book; it's mainly a comedy.
It's hard for the reader to think of her as an erotic object/being, despite her appearance as one to the other characters.FINAL:Scattershot, but admirably transgressive.
They were reading putatively less worthy stuff like Jeremy Larner's Drive, He Said and Thomas Pynchon's V and Candy by Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg.
Candy, the main character, is a somewhat vacant young college woman, who writes on a philosophy paper that the greatest love is to give oneself away completely.
If, the target is the tendency toward an tepid search for enlightenment through self-abnegation, in Candy, as pretty young white girl, you have a typical target for male chauvinism of the left.
Coming in at #2 on the 1964 bestseller list is what I found to be a quite silly book, intended to be a satire on American mores, mostly sex.
There are some fellows on Goodreads who confess they read it for a certain purpose as teenagers.Terry Southern co-wrote the book in collaboration with his buddy Mason Hoffenberg for a flat fee from Olympia Press, Paris, France, in 1958.
Olympia was known in those days as the "dirty book publisher." The novel was banned in the United States until 1964.
Candy was way ahead of its time.
And if the youtube trailer is anything to go by, the movie is not faithful to the book - going for a Laugh-In vibe, an aren't-we-naughty-wink-wink all-star cast (Richard Burton?!
It's amusing to see both the datestamp of the hardback library copy I read (August 1964) - and the whiteness of the pages.
Whereas whenever I see the E.L. James books on the shelves at the library - rode hard and put away wet is a kind term.
Were folks around these parts too scandalized to check Candy out?
I would never have thought that I will be able to find erotic pastish that awesome as in works of Marquis de Sade! And "Candy" is just like that - as if Sade and Voltaire had written it together just for fun. Over the top, somewhere between philosophical tale and satire of the one, with freudian twist at the end.
Candy by "Maxwell Canton" (a psuedonym for Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg) is a 1958 novel that is apparently fondly remembered by lots of its fans for its breathless descriptions of an excessively naive, manipulable and attractive young lady as she careens through one bizarre encounter after another while a rolling cast of late-50s stereotypical characters attempts to seduce her: her teacher Professor Mephesto, her Uncle Jack and his wife Livia (who apparently also swings wildly between cocaine-fueled cockwhore and sullen brat), the peculiar Dr. Krankeit and the desperate Dr. Duncan, and thereafter by equally creepy physicians, doctors, police officers, cult leaders, Communists, religious gurus, and finally The Buddha himself.
You still wouldn’t give it to a 14-year-old, even though by that age they’ve probably seen things as graphic on the internet.Southern and Hoffenberg co-wrote it in a series of letters and were surprised at the Candide comparison.
I read it because it was published the year I was born and it’s beginning reads more like a campus novel than a deliberately dirty sex farce.
But we never judge a book by its cover, right?The sex is silly at times—there are phrases like "jelly box" and "lamb pit"—but contemporary at others.
WTF?
Seriously, WTF?
What is this supposed to be?
Satirical?
Scandalous?
Titillating?
I'll tell you what it is - one big W.T.F. It's one wtf scene after another about Candy Christian (a walking/talking blonde moment who has Britney Spears' habit of somehow losing her underwear) and all the men who are trying to get into her "honeypot," her "jelly box," her "snapping turtle," her "fur pie," her "spice box," her "thermal pudding," her "lamb-pit" - yes, lamb pit.
Because her "precious little honey-cloister" will be "bleating." (Confidentially, if you or your loved one has a vagina that emits sounds similar to a sheep's, I recommend you seek medical attention right away.)
Eh. I was really intrigued by this book, but it got old quickly, to the tune of rinse, wring, repeat. Read a chapter or two and you have the general idea. Ever. So. Shocking. Maybe it would help if I'd read Candide, which this purportedly satirizes. I'm just sorry that I didn't read it in a public place, what with the lurid cover posing the question: is it a YA book? Is it porn? Is it--YA porn?!? Wasted opportunity.
Pagrindinė knygos veikėja Kendi čia yra parodoma kaip visiškai gyvenime nesigaudantis žmogus, nesuprantantis, kad juo yra naudojamasi. Ji tiki bet kokiais paistalais, yra įsitikinusi, kad jos visiems sutiktiems vyrams labai reikia, tik jie to dar nesupranta. Vyrai čia parodomi labai šlykštūs, norintys tiesiog pasinaudoti kvailele. Williamas Styronas sakė, kad ši knyga "kelianti nesuvaldomą juoką". Deja, visiškai nejuokinga.
hm… powiedzmy, że coraz mniej cierpiących przebywa w jej otoczeniu.
Większość z nich już na wstępie jest tak wypaczona, że nie da się ich postrzegać poważnie.
Moja rada – wyłączcie własne normy postrzegania przyzwoitości, wyłączcie też logiczne myślenie i dopiero bierzcie się za czytanie.Jeśli ktoś lubi erotykę mocno nasączoną satyrą i groteską, to powinien spędzić przy „Candy” kilka miłych chwil.
Pozostałych też zachęcam - jeśli nie do przeczytania książki od deski do deski, to chociaż do „skosztowania”.
Nawet, jeżeli ktoś uzna opisane w powieści zbliżenia za niesmaczne i wynaturzone porno, to może spodoba mu się tych kilka ironicznych i absurdalnych tekstów pomiędzy „scenami akcji”.
That is why this fiction works: I know it might strike some if not most people as strange, but I truly believe that if you think about it the average man would not think it at all unreasonable that a full gynecological exam would occur in the rest room of a Greenwich Village bar, as it does in this book, or that in every single scene in which a man appears with Candy no matter what the profession of the man, whether professor, doctor, mystic or whomever, sex is the ulterior motive of all their interactions.Candy is presented as an innocent, the original bleeding heart liberal, whose love and compassion for a hunchback on Grove Street, for example, is heartwarming but at the same time ridiculous because the guy's certifiably nuts but because of her broad loving arms and open-mindedness she cannot perceive even his inability to speak coherent English.
What I like of it is the notion of a girl well cultivated in literature and art cinema although really dumb in everything else.
The last two chapters with guru Grindle are obviously the best in the book and I realized that many chapters were unnecessary for the novel's finale.Terry Southern's "Candy" is a descent of Alice in Wondersex that proves the authors best intentions while overtaking such a literary venture.As for myself, I've gone through all six stages of spiritual advancement and just need to meet an adorable Candy to initiate in the mystical path.
Candy is incredibly funny :-) Hilariously so even, at times.
The scene at the hospital is hilarious, and also the episodes with the Mexican gardener and Grindle are very funny.
Not to mention the end ;-)At the back of my edition, a number of quotes are given, one of them (by Herbert Gold) saying "Good grief, it's a very funny book" and another (by Irwin Shaw) saying "Absolutely hilarious".
As far as I'm concerned, they were right; because it is, as I said, an incredibly funny read :-)For a review in Dutch, see the Winter Challenge 2016-2017 of the Netherlands & Flanders group.
I read this alongside Candide, hoping to illuminate both stories, having understood that Candy was a commentary on Candide. I very much enjoyed Candide. Not so much this book. Apart from pins stuck in butts, I find no parallel.What's most disappointing is how boring the book is. My sixth graders write better than this, and I would venture that would include the sex scenes too. These guys seem to understand the mechanics of sex kind of like an 11 year old might.
This book can't hold a candle to Terry Southern's demented, roll-on-the-floor-hilarious "The Magic Christian", though I did laugh out loud, for the wrong reasons, at least once. Candy is an idiot, and an ultimately annoying, mundane character. The once-scandalous situations are simply corny, if not ludicrous.
Goofy wack-off material posing as "satire". Southern wrote Dr. Strangelove, which I've always thought was overrated as well. This material is very dated, and if there's a point behind all this incest and mind-buggery, i don't know what it is. I'll toss it a couple of stars for including hunchback sex, though.
Breezy, episodic, comedic smut. Follow the adventures of Candy Christian's sweet honeypot from Racine to Lhasa, from avuncular pseudo-incest to real incest while being sodomized by the nose of Buddha. Everyone wants Candy!
one of the banned books- a great movie made in the 60's with a star-studded cast. it's a great experience to watch richard burton and james coburn in their element
F'n great, see the film!
Pretty funny and crazy but not exactly literature. "Good grief, it's Daddy!" Date read is a guess.
e lei -così ingenua e dolce- è sempre quasi pronta a concedersi ma qualche imprevisto riesce sempre a rovinar tutto.
infatti ne trassero un film comico (mai visto, ma con un cast mica da ridere: ringo starr, charles aznavour, diverse leggende come brando, houston e matthau e persino enrico maria salerno e umberto orsini e financo il pugile sugar ray robinson) ma a dirla tutta sembra la sceneggiatura di uno di quei film con la giovane eleonora giorgi circondata dai soliti comprimari da commedia all'italiana di serie z (chessò, i soliti renzo montagnani, lino banfi, cannavale & bombolo e magari anche jimmy il fenomeno: tutti perfetti per i personaggi del libro).anzi no: a differenza di questo libro le battutacce dei b-movie nostrani fanno ancora ridere e i personaggi interpretati dalla giorgi erano decisamente più intelligenti della povera candy.
e credo che questo dica tutto sul libro.
I wish I could give zero stars, just in order for the rate drop.I do not know how to review this book.
I could say that I would think about it differently if I was in a different place in life.
As in your point of view differs every time, when your lifestyle or just life quality changes.
Yes. Let us say that it depends on you and your life.I could have and maybe still can relate to this book, how helpless Candy is.
I used to be this naive girl, my God, no, not literally like that (as in the situations she gets in).
I kept trying to compare it to Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure by John Cleland -- a satiric pornography that works because the narrator is female and seemingly in control of her escapades.
In Southern-Hoffenberg's book, Candy is the emptyheaded, ever-available female: the ideal of the authors ' desire.
As I read the book, I thought that only a male reader could really like this story.
But in glancing at the reader comments, many male readers were as put off as I was.
Maybe what is considered funny or satiric has changed since the 1950s?
What a wonderful, hilarious fun novel! Following the adventures of one Candy Christian, it sees her from one flirtation and tryst to another, from making love to her uncle and a hunchback to delightfully fornicating with a mystic in a cave until at novel's end it sees her come to orgasm with her father under the stone statue of the Buddha in the temple at Lhasa, Tibet. This gives away a lot of its secrets but far from all. I can't help but give this book five stars. It was a pleasure and a delight.
