https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23507745-serafina-and-the-black-cloak
One thing’s for sure: this book can make an interesting Halloween read for young readers.The mysterious, elusive, creature-ish, cloaked man who kidnaps children terrifies Serafina and her new friend.
But Sera is courageous, so she will find the missing children and bring back order to Biltmore!Or die trying.It took me a good while to get into this book.
The writing is rather dry, especially at first, when so many descriptions are made about Biltmore and its residents and nothing of grand interest has happened yet.But as the story progresses, we become more attached to Sera and her new friend, Breaden.
No book deal?Well, actually, that's kind of the plot of Serafina and the Black Cloak.
Sort of.One night while prowling the mansion for rats (she's the C.R.C.: Certified Rat Catcher), Serafina witnesses a creepy man in an even creepier black cloak chase and kind of consume a young girl.
The characters were one-dimensional, I guessed Serafina's secret right away (and I think the more discerning kid readers will, as well--especially if they're cat-obsessed) and the Boss Battle at the end was profoundly boring.
Why didn't the author give us a strong, black girl character?
Serafina is a 12 year old girl who lives in the Vanderbilt mansion, called the Biltmore Estate, with her pa.
They secretly live in the basement and no one knows she exists.
So this is probably not exactly "Young Adult," and more geared towards older kids/younger teens, but it's a solid fantasy tale about an unusual girl who is more than she appears, and who ends up saving the day (of course).
For example, and I don't think this a spoiler, but Serafina only wore large man-shirts tied at the waist with an old rope or belt, and for an adult, it's like, come on, she could have gotten some hand-me-downs no matter how poor they were.
3.5I can say I am lucky in terms of middle grade novel these days since I liked every middle grade novel I've read lately.
This precious little book is a middle grade novel about Serafina (obviously) and her adventure together with her friend Braeden in unraveling the true identity of the Black Cloak Man. And also, her peculiarity and finding her self, her true self, literally.
And in no time, I finished this book, feeling contented with the ending.
It's a bit cliché but it warms my heart, nonetheless.I liked this book.
And I will read its sequel.
Serafina and the Black Cloak was a one-of-a-kind mystery thriller, peppered with an old fashioned ambiance and ominous tone. I was entranced from the very beginning - it's the kind of story that grants you an escape from reality and an entirety of reading enjoyment.Thus, if you are looking for a story that captivities through a blend of character-driven story surrounded by an unsettling, chilling, beautiful and haunting setting, then be sure to pick up this one up! It is unquestionably, a middl
Serafina and the Black Cloak was a one-of-a-kind mystery thriller, peppered with an old fashioned ambiance and ominous tone.
+ I was thoroughly impressed by the captivating simplicity of the plot in Serafina and the Black Cloak; including, the haunting atmosphere that loomed over everything from beginning to end ― it was ominous, enchanting, mysterious, spellbinding, eerie and hair-raising all together!
To so greatly capture all the elements that make for a superb mystery-thriller and to hold my attention, is proof that Beatty is easily one of the most brilliant and entertaining storytellers presently out there+ Each character in Serafina and the Black Cloak is uniformly sensational.
This was kind of disappointing. I don't know what I was expecting but this book was very slow. While I was learning about Seraphina and her life at the start it was interesting but then the story almost completely halted. It was just description after description and I was getting bored. The characters were one-dimensional and didn't seem very authentic. The story was quite predictable but it wasn't a horrible story. I might read the next one as I'm willing to give it a chance but I'll see.
I’m camouflaged and silent”) Other characters display some of this, as well, but not to the same extent as Serafina.And then there was the problem of stereotyping female behavior.p. 166-171 = huge problem:“I’m going to ask you a question,” she said.“All right,” he said softly, sitting up in his bed.“When you look at me, what do you see?”Braeden went quiet and did not answer.
Every second that went by was like a dagger in her heart because she knew it was true.…Serafina looked at Braeden, and she spoke very softly, not sure she wanted to know the answer to the question she was about to ask.
There's a reason Goosebumps and Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark have persevered over time, and Serafina and the Black Cloak tries pretty hard to be in that same vein, but ends up wildly missing the mark.Serafina is a girl who was found in the woods, battered and broken.
Taken in by a man and kept secret for the first decade or so of her life, she is witness to a strange disappearance that she feels uniquely qualified to get to the bottom of, and so begins our tale of Serafina exploring and uncovering a dark, weird secret.The first bit of the book, the parts that establish who Serafina is and what she's really up to?
Original Post:  Serafina and the Black Cloak   at FLYLēF (www.flylef.com)“NEVER GO INTO the deep parts of the forest, for there are many dangers there, and they will ensnare your soul.”Step into the wonderfully whimsical world of Serafina and the Black Cloak, by Robert Beatty, and chances are, you'll be completely enchanted by its magical setting, valiant young heroes, and dark mysteries.Mr. Beatty deftly builds a unique world full of beautiful details that effortlessly drew me in. Nestled in a
at FLYLēF (www.flylef.com)“NEVER GO INTO the deep parts of the forest, for there are many dangers there, and they will ensnare your soul.”Step into the wonderfully whimsical world of Serafina and the Black Cloak, by Robert Beatty, and chances are, you'll be completely enchanted by its magical setting, valiant young heroes, and dark mysteries.Mr. Beatty deftly builds a unique world full of beautiful details that effortlessly drew me in.
I admire how Mr. Beatty explores the uniqueness of individuals like Serafina and Braeden, reminds us to embrace such differences, and that sometimes what makes us different is also what makes us special.Despite being a middle grade book, there was an aura of death and darkness that was unexpected, yet alluring.
"There are many mysteries in the world, both dark and bright."Serafina lives in the basement of the magnificent Biltmore mansion, the home of the wealthy and influential Vanderbilt family.
She's lived there all of her life with her Pa taking care of her, but the Vanderbilts have no idea that she's even alive.And they probably never would have, that is until one of the Vanderbilt's young guests mysteriously disappears and Serafina, herself, witnesses what happens to her: something dark and unexplainable.
A fantastical thriller that takes place in the early days of the gorgeous Biltmore Estate?
The way real details of the house and estate have been woven into this remarkable story about Serafina and her pursuit of the Black Cloak is inspired.
She is so easy to love - I found myself wanting to jump into the story and be her best friend.
I love that this book can appeal to so many audiences - fans of historical fiction, thrillers, mysteries, ghost stories, fantasy, the supernatural, friendship stories, tales of growing up, and even those who are just interested in Biltmore.
A strange and gothic tale set at the very real Biltmore Mansion. Serafina is an uncanny child, with many secrets, but she's not the only one. I was a little freaked out by some of the secrets, to be honest, but it was definitely an exciting and very unusual book!
«No son las batallas que ganamos o perdemos las que nos definen, sino aquellas que estamos dispuestos a librar.»Reseña completa -> http://thewordsofbooks.blogspot.com.e...
“Did evil creatures think of themselves as evil? Or did they think they were doing what was right? Was evil something that was in your heart or was it how people viewed you?”   I had very high hopes from this book, I'm not even sure why. I just thought it was going to be one of those gems you stumble onto, sadly it didn't live up to the hype I had set-up in my head. For the most part, this book was fairly good. The writing was solid, again for the most part and the lead character was interesti
I actually have no idea why every time I picked up this book I couldn't really get into it.
Also, the side characters weren't that interesting and most of the time the side characters really make or break the book for me.
I still love a dark middle-grade novel because I feel like the higher the stakes for the characters, the more likely you will be drawn into the story and root for the heroes.
I think this book is worth looking into if the plot interests you.
It's far from a horrible book, I just couldn't fall in love with this tale.
What a fun and intriguing story!
I really wish there had been the YA selection there is now, when I was a child of the 80's.
I would have loved these books even more if I'd gotten to read them as an actual YA.
This is a great little fairytale and I'll definitely read the next one.
My kids will love it too.
Serafina is a strong little girl, in spirit and in nature.
With the right pick, she'd make a great character for the big screen.
This was a different story, not your usual kind of YA fairytale and the last sentence was very powerful.Recommended to readers of YA.
Мрачна, мистериозна и напълно невероятна история за едно малко момиче, търсещо мястото си в света. Създанената атмосфера в книгата беше уникална и определено влезнах в тъмния сюжет! Чудесна книга както за деца, така и за възрастни!
“…our world is filled with many mysteries, things we don’t understand. Never go into the deep parts of the forest, for there are many dangers there, both dark and bright, and they will ensnare your soul.” Biltmore Estate is large enough to have kept a secret for over a decade: deep within its basement lives a man and his daughter, named Serafina. Serafina’s father is in charge of the buildings maintenance but he would be tossed out in a heartbeat if it were discovered he also resided there. And
Biltmore Estate is large enough to have kept a secret for over a decade: deep within its basement lives a man and his daughter, named Serafina.
Serafina is determined to help these people find their lost children, even if it means disclosing her secret.Beatty created a most mysterious girl with Serafina, who is described as having golden eyes and strangely enough, four toes instead of the normal five.
She sees the good in the world but because of the man in the black cloak, she’s also uncovering the bad as well.
DNF at 11%There's nothing in particular wrong with this book. The writing is fine - poetical at times - the characters are interesting. There is stuff going on...but it's happening at about a snail's pace. There's so much explaining of everything that I'm bored in between, waiting for stuff to happen.I'm not entirely sure this is the book's fault - I think it's probably me...
Снощи най-после успях да я дочета. Много е гадно да знаеш края, обаче не и как героите стигат до него. Хубава детска книга с необходимата доза мрак, за да учи на разни неща и да е искрена.
Resenha em breve :)
Harry Potter serisi kurgu, karakterler, ortam ve hissiyat açısından 10 üzerinden 8 ve Percy Jackson aynı değerlendirmede 3 alırsa (2-5 yaş arası alfabe kitaplarını 1-2 olarak yazıyorum) bu kitap da olsa olsa 10 üzerinden 5 olur.
Ceylan cesetleri, parçalanan bedenler, mezarlık hikayeleri gibi çocukların kaçınması gereken öğeler var ama yazım yaşı bundan daha öte değil.Percy Jackson'da gerçekten zeka yaşım düşmüştü.
Serafina kesinlikle sevilesi ve bağ kurulası bir karakterdi.
Hatta asıl heyecanla beklenen nokta Siyah Pelerin'in sahibinden çok Serafina'nın "ne" olduğuydu.
Percy Jackson'ın ikinci kitabıyla devam etme konusunda çekincedeyim ama bunu mutlaka alırım gibi duruyor.Herkese keyifli okumalar!
Why am I different?Although this story is set in 1899 and is historical fiction, its timeless themes are the true nature of a classic novel and will speak to middle school and high school readers (not to mention adults) .
Middle school and high school teachers and librarians will find the well-developed characters, the Gilded Age mansion, the chilling cemetery scenes, and the mystical black cloak the perfect combination to motivate discussions and fulfill many Common Core curriculum elements of Language Arts and/or history requirements.
Serafina and the Black Cloak is an adventure/mystery that takes place at the Vanderbilt Biltmore Estate deep in rural North Carolina.
Risking everything, Serafina approaches 12-year old Braeden Vanderbilt and shares her secret.
Together Sera and Braeden begin to tackle the mystery, each realizing it is the first time they have ever had a friend.More and more children disappear, and finally, the tension and her own need for self-identity reaching a crescendo, Serafina strikes out into the foreboding woods, where she is determined to solve both the mystery of the missing children, and of her own origin.
Serafina and the Black Cloak is an excellent read that should make a big splash.
En realidad un 3,5.Serafina y la capa negra es un middle-grade muy diferente, me ha sorprendido que fuera tan tenebroso y misterioso teniendo en cuenta el público al que está enfocado.
Me gusta que el autor vaya dejando pistas por aquí y por allá del hombre de la capa negra para que hasta que no llegues casi al final no lo averigües; a su vez también es genial que no solo se centre en las extrañas desapariciones sino que nos va picando con el pasado y origen de Serafina, con cómo ve ella el mundo y que la familia y la amistad estén tan presentes y sean tan importantes.
Любимата ми (не) детска книга„Серафина и черния плащ” попадна съвсем неочаквано в библиотеката ми. Отдавна спрях да чета детски книги, затова и първоначално пропуснах да я включа в списъка си за четене...цялото ревю може да прочетете в блога ми - https://the-book-tigers-diary-reviews...
Изумена съм. Напоследък чета повече middle grade книги и осъзнавам колко съм изгубила с изключването на тези книги от списъците ми за четене. Толкова са леки и увлекателни и всъщност точно такива са тези така отпускащи почивки от ежедневието. Ако още не сте я прочели ви я препоръчвам сърдечно. <3
How I loved Serafina! Absolutely marvelous, creepy, fun, atmospheric read. I read it all in one sitting. I think many young people will do so as well. Great title.
Finished reading: January 6th 2016  “Our character isn’t defined by the battles we win or lose, but by the battles we dare to fight.” (view spoiler)[The first thing that convinced me to pick up a copy of Serafina And The Black Cloak was the gorgeous cover. In fact, I didn't realize until later that this was actually a middle grade story... Although I personally like reading a middle grade book every once in a while. This story written by Robert Beatty has both an interesting setting and the per
In short, Serafina And The Black Cloak was a more than satisfying read that I can recommend if you are looking for a middle grade fantasy book.Serafina never knew her mother and has been growing up living in the basement of the Biltmore estate with her father.
She is determined to stop the man, but will she be able to even when nobody seems to believe her or can really see her in the first place?Serafina And The Black Cloak is a very entertaining middle grade read that has the perfect mix of fantasy and creepy elements.
3,5Un middle grade donde no solo encontraremos acción y aventuras, sino que también juega un papel importante la inocencia y ternura de la protagonista. Pero la historia no solo se centra en la trama principal, también conoceremos el origen de Serafina, que ha sido una de mis partes favoritas del libro. Algo a favor de esta historia es que el misterio se mantiene a lo largo de todos los capítulos, por lo que se hace una lectura entretenida y tierna, muy tierna.Reseña completa: http://voragineinterna.blogspot.com.e...
Zo lief! Binnenkort recensie op www.myperfectbooklife.blogspot.nl
