https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386254.Mexico_Set
Description: Now on the shadowy East-West battlefield of Mexico City.
Yet how can he fight when he doesn't know where to find his most determined enemies -- or even who they are?Opening: 'Some of these people want to get killed,' said Dickie Cruyer, as he jabbed the brake pedal to avoid hitting a newsboy.
''Six Face Firing Squad'; Veracruz.' A smudgy photo of street fighting in San Salvador covered the whole front of a tabloid.4* Winter4* Berlin GameTR Mexico SetTR London Match3* Ipcress File3* SS-GB3* XPD (l
Remember these titles: "Berlin Game" "Mexico Set" "London Match" "Spy Hook" "Spy Line" "Spy Sinker"All by Len Deighton. All with protagonist Bernard Samson. Read them in that order, but READ THEM! You know those kinds of novels that you love so much you mourn the loss of them when you're done reading them? Yeah, that's what this series is. I haven't yet read the next trilogy "Faith" "Hope" and "Charity", but I'm counting on you, Len! Don't let me down!
Samson continues his dogged game of cloak and daggers. While one is never sure if the Oxbridge contingent or the KGB are the real foe, for world weary cynical retro cool this spy series cannot be beat.
For some reason, I started reading these out of order. However, I enjoyed this tale enough to eventually invest in the entire 9/10 parts of the story - 3 trilogies and a prequel.Bernard Samson is a man who seems out of his depth. Tasked with arranging the defection of a KGB man from Mexico. Meanwhile Bernard is still suffering from the defection of his wife - does anybody still trust him? Will the success of this job redeem him or is it doomed to failure anyway?
This is the second of the Bernard Samson novels by Len Deighton (Berlin Game, Mexico Set, and London Match).
It usually takes a little while for a Len Deighton novel to get going, but once it does, it roars like a freight train until the very last page.
It seems that Samson is on the run not only from the KGB but his own people.There is no way that I'm not going to read the last novel in the trilogy -- and soon!
After the defection of his wife Bernard Sampson is left to prove that he is a loyal, company man.
The agent is spotted in Mexico City and Bernard plus colleague is sent out there to start the process of enrolment Although Bernard grew up in Berlin and lives in London he is not particularly cosmopolitan.
Len Deighton does an excellent job of having him reflect the typical English bloke of the time who doesn't like travel, foreigners or foreign food very much.
Bernard clearly does not like many of his colleagues who have spent their working lives behind desk rather than in the field.
Nine books chart his history with vivid characterization, suspense, the occasional bit of off-beat humour, intricate plotting, betrayals, and redemptions.
The same set of characters, both the good and bad guys, basically move from book to book, allowing Mr Deighton to gradually fill-in their complexities, so that the books are far deeper than many spy novels.
The books concentrate on the people and not super-secret complex technology or gadgets.
Seriously addictive, ironic, cleverly plotted and deeply evocative of the 70s, forget sleep and meals until you have devoured all nine novels in an orgy of reading!!!
Office politics with secrets and guns. There's something irresistibly catchy about such a low-key approach to spy fiction. It definitely feels grounded. I wasn't sure where this book could possibly go after the twists in the previous book, but it all worked out. A solid read, as long as you're not expecting a thriller.
Liking it so far. Not as good as the first one, Berlin Game. Like reading a book about the cold war etc so many years after the collapse of communism and no mention of mobiles or computers! This was good but a little complex, not ideal for reading as you are falling asleep as you do have to pay attention to who is on which side of communism! However it was a clever book and one which despite its complete lack of technology, well certainly not the stuff I'm used to it was in many ways timeless. Recommend it.
Not my favorite kind of book, but I still liked it enough to stay with it.
Carefully conceived plot told with precisionand without confusion. The complexity of the plot and thecharacters are fascinating. Len is a master story-teller. Having listened to the firs rwo books makes me rush to the net in theseries.
(view spoiler)[Mexico Set is all about how Bernard Samson copes when his wife defects to the Russians after he uncovers the fact that she is a KGB agent (they were both senior members of the British secret service).
(How has this man, who views himself as reasonable and professional, come to be so feared by his colleagues?) (hide spoiler)] The various backgrounds, from the sleaze of Mexico City to the paranoia of Berlin, are atmospheric and tightly integrated into the feelings that the novel produces as it is read - treachery is just so much more plausible in the settings Deighton provides for it.
Samson keeps saying that it is "like a seduction" but he does virtually no work the entire book.
Not only does she jump into his bed for no good reason, she declares that she's actually in love with him.Everyone keeps saying that Samson is this loving father but all I see is a guy who keep shuttling them off to the relatives while he attends to business.
Carry on!"There are a couple of similar lapses of logic in Samson's arguments throughout the book.All in all, this felt like an extremely sloppy attempt to cash in on the popularity of the Berlin Game.I won't be reading London Match.
Bernard Samson is one of the great literary spy's tough, clever, Loyal, witty and likeable.
Len Deighton does a great job of mixing friendships, office politics, a defector wife and a bit of spying into this carefully planed thriller.
The book is confident enough to take its time, to worry about Bernard's kids and sister in law, to let the action take place off the page with Werners visit to Berlin - this is probably a by product of planning out three trilogy's before starting.
The final third of the book the pace picks up and leads to a satisfying end.
The second installment in the Game Set Match trilogy of spy books, in which Bernard Sampson is tasked with convincing KGB major Erich Stinnes to defect to London.
That would be hard enough, but there are two extra complications: (1) due to events in the first book, Sampson is under pressure to succeed in order to prove he’s still trustworthy as an agent and (2) someone in his own agency appears to be working to ensure he fails.
This is probably the best Deighton book I’ve read so far (which is saying something, as I’ve enjoyed them all).
Some more airport reading. Samson is sent to “enroll” a KGB agent, while his enemy --- his ex-wife in the KGB --- tries to make it look as if he’s a traitor. Again, Samson is pretty much the only competent around, and gets tangled up in a web of tricks and counter-tricks, made more deadly by the bungling of the “desk men” (as opposed to field agents like him) around him. The complex story is pretty well handled, but I just don’t find the trials and tribulations of Bernie Samson very suspenseful or compelling, for whatever reason.
The sequel bears the firstAs you read this and experience the misadventures of Mr. Samson, you almost feel sorry as he blunders through a tightening noose by treacherous friends, incompetent colleagues and devious enemies, you wonder if he will survive. As he shows his brilliant mind and common-sense, you realize there's more than meets the eye. A great series for a great character.
This is the middle of the Bernard Samson trilogy but I read it first. Picked it up at the town transfer station. I like Deighton's style. No nonsense like Fleming, although that can be fun too. My first exposure was from the movie "The Ipcress File". Went on to read the first and third parts as well.Further on... I think there're more Samson books besides these three.
Solid second volume to the Game, Set and Match trilogy. Bernard Samson is a believable character who just happens to be a spy. His domestic situation is somewhat unusual, but it helps set the stage as the story unfolds. The opening chapters are a bit disjointed, making it a difficult start, but as events develop the story moves ahead, drawing you in.
I really enjoyed the first of this trilogy, so was looking forward to getting into the second instalment. Sadly, it didn't live up to expectations. The writing is still engaging, the characters still interesting, but the plot this time was laboured and slow to get going. Not enough to put me off the series, but a bit of a disappointment nonetheless.
Slowish start - but what a great story-teller when he gets going! And he writes so cinemategraphically, I wonder if this was ever filmed? I must google it after writing this. And the really lovely thing is this is the start of a whole series, so I can noiw get a start on the next one. Than you Sarah for introducing me to Deighton!
Even better than the first one in the series.
Probably the best of the Sampson books.
It has more spycraft and excitement, and deals with the fallout of Berlin Game, particularly the lasting effects of betrayal.With the traitor in British Intelligence exposed and plotting with the KGB, Bernard Samson is left to pick up the pieces, but finds his career and personal life in jeopardy.
This gets even worse when he's in the field, where he second-guesses every aspect of the op, constantly wondering if it's a double-cross intended to push him into defecting with his wife Fiona, the initial turncoat.But it isn't as simple as just being paranoid; Samson's fears may well be founded.
[rolls eyes] Deighton not only creates idiots in charge of every "desk" above Samson, he characterizes the Director General of MI6 as an not merely aged, but wandering with dementia, and still in the job, technically in charge of the freedom of the free world!
and I can hear the 'Dangerman' fans exploding: "Don't you dare compare Drake with that idiot Samson!") but I just cannot accept an 'M' who's so far into dementia, he doesn't know what day it is.
Zwróciłem się do osobistego asystenta D-G mówiąc - Czy zanotował to pan, panie Morgan?
Spojrzał na mnie tak, jak gdybym był owadem pływającym w jego drinku.
Wyraz jego twarzy nie zmienił się i nic nie odpowiedział.
Tymczasem jego szefowie nie tylko ponaglają, zarzucają mu, że podobnie jak Fiona w gruncie rzeczy działa na korzyść wroga.
Wiem przecież, jak się to wszystko skończy, ponieważ czytałam końcowe części cyklu.
Nie ma co ukrywać, że wróciłam dla samej przyjemności ponownego obcowania z Bernim, dla jego sarkastycznego humoru i złośliwości, z jaką portretuje ludzi ze swojego otoczenia.
I nie żałuję.
I read until the small hours to complete this book.
It is light on spy craft detail, throws around some underdeveloped ideas in terms of plot and stretches plausibility but keeps you turning the page.
Perhaps a little more detail in terms of teamwork and method would place Samson and his increasing challenges in a world in which you can believe.
The gratuitous sexual conquest late on in the book reminded me of a Russ Tobin exploit - pretty weak stuff and a duff note just before the big finale.
All in all, an enjoyable read but not a plot to ponder over.
This is one part of a trilogy. Berlin Game, Mexico Set, London Match. I've carried one of these on nearly every flight I've taken long haul. Excellent reads all three. Highly recommend them. The lead character stands out, and his relationship with his counterpart, a want-to-be-spy is carried right through the trilogy. You have to wait until the very end to see how it all works out sorry.If you like Cold War British Spy Thrillers, you are going to have to love this set.
Samson is more of a bumbling idiot of a spy than he was in ‘Berlin Game’ and along with his new persona there are a number of other “supporting” characters that make this a bit too much James Bond and not enough ‘The Night Manager’ for my liking.
This is my 2nd time round reading this amazing book. Len Deighton is the absolute master at Espionage fiction! Now I'm going to read the next book in the trilogy - London Match, for the 2nd time too!
