https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7171637-clockwork-angel
Because seven really long books just wasn’t enough for them apparently.It's nice to know that the snappy little one-liners and cheap hijinks are being recycled because they worked so well the first AND second time she used them.I don't think I've made it any great secret that I despise the writings of Cassandra Clare - so let me get the, few, good points out of the way so I can go back to imagining a world where authors like this are forcibly chained to their desks and made to read their own stories over and over again until they’re sorry.-She stopped using so many damn similes.
When people ask me ''Who is your favorite author?'' I never know exactly what answer to offer.
Plus, you know how sometimes you read scenes in a book and you feel like they aren’t clear or so poorly contextualized that the author’s words are sadly hard to follow?
Magnus Bane is in fact my all-time favorite book character (which one is yours?) Certainly, this book gave me some background story on him and made me learn new things about his character, but he still is more present in The Mortal Instruments nonetheless which is something that I cannot forget.
THIS WAS SO GREAT. I'm so glad that I finally picked it up! I'm going to be doing video review/discussion for this so be on the look out for that soon on youtube.com/jessethereader :)reread: 4/22 - 4/28
____________________________________________“One must always be careful of books," said Tessa, "and what is inside them, for words have the power to change us.” ____________________________________________ ☆☆☆☆☆5 FULLY STARS!☆☆☆☆☆ You can find the full review and more about this book on my blog!I never thought this could be that good.I had started "City of Bones" (the first book of The Mortal Instruments by the same author) but it didn't work for me so I thought this could be the same but I was

In Clockwork Angel, I found Tessa making a very similar remark on Brother Enoch's strange, frightening appearance: "It hardly seems worth living a long time if you're going to look like that."Wow, Tessa was badmouthing Brother Enoch behind his back when Brother Enoch was trying to save Tessa's own brother Nate's life.
Isn't it just bad for Ms. Clare to spend more time to describe what Will and Jem look like, what clothes they wore then she spends time on describing how her two male leads reacted to the death of this innocent girl?And I had talked about Tessa's bitchy attitude toward bad looking/strange looking people before.
There is also a very compelling cast of side characters, including:➽Charlotte - the badass lady mentor Tessa needed and deserved➽Henry - a mess who has never done anything wrong in his life➽Jessamine - girl hate but like, compelling and subversive, but also annoying but also I don’t hate her??➽Sophie - my girlfriend, my wife, I would die for her, an iconI kind of intoned girl hate in this, so let’s talk about the narrative implications of girl hate and why this book actually did really well.
While I liked Mortal Instruments, I wasn't as rabid a fan as I know many people are, so I read Clockwork Angel out of curiosity more than anything else...and I'm so glad I did!This book is spectacular, with everything I'd wanted in the TMI series and more.
I thought this book was much more mature than the TMI series, so I'm very much looking forward to reading the next two Infernal Devices installments.
I *loved* the clockwork army and the clever way Tessa learns to use her powers to overcome her enemies.
Jem is really great, but I LOVE Will.
The main thing I'm looking forward to in this series is pain. Also, Will Herondale. I don't personally know him but he can, like, get it.
This book was SO GOOD!
I will admit I'm not the biggest fan of 3rd person past tense, so it did take me a little while to get into it, but once I did WOW!
The world building and the characters and the story are all fantastic and woven together SO well, and the ending was brilliant, full of action and surprises!
I've already grown attached to these characters and have become invested in their story and their secrets--I'm especially dying to know what's going on with Will!Overall, an EXCELLENT first book in a trilogy and I'm so excited to continue it immediately!
1. Yes, I'll be doing a review for this on my channel. 2. Yes, I'll be continuing the series. 3. No, I won't tell you who's "team" I'm on yet 🙃
Find me on Instagram & Twitter!Clockwork Angel was AMAZING. If you love The Mortal Instruments, then you will surely love this book, maybe even more than the original series itself. And if you didn't, well I honestly believe The Infernal Devices will  succeed  in what The Mortal Instruments failed to do.The characters were one hundred times more better than that of The Mortal Instruments! Everybody was so much more  likable and mature.  I really thought for a second that Tessa Gray was older
If you love The Mortal Instruments, then you will surely love this book, maybe even more than the original series itself.
I really thought for a second that Tessa Gray was older than sixteen years old because she carried herself more maturely than Clary.
:'( But I honestly didn't mind the love triangle between Tessa, Will, and Jem. I don't want to start assuming, but I think it's pretty 
<3I absolutely fell in love with Clockwork Angel and I do believe that it's even better than The Mortal Instruments so far (I just finished City of Glass).
The mortal instrument was my first experience with Cassandra Clare, and I remember I was in love with the first 3 books.
While the mortal instruments was a enjoyable series, this book was an incredible work of art.
Tessa, the books main character, while a soft hearted and innocent young women of old time New York upbringing, is of a literature loving and poetic nature.
The world and settings are relatively similar to the mortal instruments with the difference of the timeline.
While I could rant on and on, since I had read the mortal instruments, the world of shadow hunters was familiar to me.
We have the slightly bitchy girl who acts like she doesn’t care about anything at all but who can fight extremely well if she has to.
Jessamine has it in her, but I didn’t particularly like her and she didn’t show any signs of love for her fellow Shadowhunters as Isabelle did despite her attitude.The love story revolving around Tessa and Will didn’t really capture me.
In the end, the only thing this book did for me was make me look forward to meeting the characters from TMI again, and I really hope that wasn’t the author’s intention.
If TMI are my guilty pleasure/angsty teen romance, the TID are the more grown up and slightly darker version of those guilty pleasures.
I can’t really add anything else that hasn’t been reviewed a million times over already, but I’m so happy that I finally get to see who these beloved characters are.
**********************I have heard so many people say that they love TID much more than TMI, so I decided to make this my Suspenseful Clues and Thrilling Reviews choice for July!
(Prompt-a book that starts with the first letter of your name.) I'm really excited to finally meet the characters that everyone else is constantly talking about!
All of the deep talk about humanity and love and family and quoting from books I never intend to read is just a smokescreen to disguise that this book is thin, its characters are thin, its mythology is particularly thin, and even some obvious fanservice in the form of Magnus Bane couldn't spice it up.It's not a bad book; it's not a good book, either.
At one point Jem says to Tessa, "You're thinking, If they call this damp nastiness summer, what must winter be like?
Even things we're supposed to think of as charitable, like Sophie and Thomas and Agatha being employed at the Institute, is fucked up.
To be sure I won't make the same mistake twice and never doubt again.Tessa is an American girl coming from New York to London in search of her brother.
Her path will cross with that of the Shadowhunters and with them she will figure what happened to her brother, but like always there is something lurking behind the scenes.
The cast of characters like always are utterly compelling and you get attached to them almost right away.
Actually the word agonizing doesn't quite show the gravity how much I want to read the next book right now.
Whoever loves you now - and you must love yourself - will love the truth of you." I feel like in this book Jem is the goodness that Tessa needs, he is so gentle and so kind.I hate to say this, but I admit how much I forgot about Sophie.
So what did I love?EVERYTHING But in particular...- Will of course...- Sophies sass- Jems quotes- Wills Sarcasm- All of the action- How clever things came together!What I didn't like?- The only thing I wanted was more Magnus, buuuuuuuuuuuut I can wait!If you can't already tell, I'm so happy I re-read the first book!
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★  “It's all right to love someone who doesn't love you back, as long as they're worth you loving them. As long as they deserve it.”  Friends, I finally made it to your beloved Infernal Devices! And I really enjoyed this book. Easily my favorite Cassie Clare book yet! And this was hella darker than anything in the The Mortal Instruments thus far. Clockwork Angel is the first installment set in the same world that Cassandra Clare has cr
And like I’ve done with every other book I’ve reviewed in this world, I’m going to do a quick, little breakdown with all my thoughts and feelings about the main characters.
- I thought Tessa was just going to be a Shadowhunter, so when this book started, and we found out her power?
Okay, in case I didn’t make my feelings clear on liking Jem more than Will, I figured I would talk a little bit more about it.
I feel like it’s super obvious that Tessa will eventually pick Will, and that they are going to be “soulmates” or whatever.
It's not a long life, killing demons; one tends to die young, and then they burn your body—dust to dust, in the literal sense. And then we vanish into the shadows of history, nary a mark on the page of a mundane book to remind the world that once we existed at all.  It's really hard for me to review a book everyone loved and have high expectations but then end up not even liking it because maybe your expectations were too high, not met, or you were just bored. In my case, it was all. Expectati
I have a friend named Amber and this one time we started talking and she told me she loves TMI series and I was happy for her because she loves it while others didn't like it as much but she didn't care and she ended up loving this one as well so I thought I was gonna love it as well (especially because Amber and I don't share many similar opinions about books but that's okay because we're all a community and think differently) and if she loved it, I figured I would love it.
I think y’all know at this point that I am absolute trash for all of the shadowhunters books so if you missed my livetweet reread here are the collected highlights and my definitive list of Opinions:▪the automatons are creepy as FUCK and I’m honestly surprised I didn’t have nightmares about them▪Will is overdramatic as HELL but I relate▪“do you often sleep tied to the bed?” this is some serious kink exposure Will▪Tessa and Will nerd out over books together sdfjdsaldfj▪CHARLOTTE BRANWELL IS MY NE
I think y’all know at this point that I am absolute trash for all of the shadowhunters books so if y
Clare only has Tessa use her shape shifting to move the story forward.
There isn't even a contest.But there is something that Clare uses Jem for that I don't like; to make excuses for Will.
Yes. Shadow-hunters don't use guns because supposedly the runes they tried to scratch into the weapon and bullets keeps it from firing, and no one knows why.I would believe it if she wasn't the queen of convenient.
Yeah, I really wanted to smack Tessa.Clare's heroines are so superficial I don't know how these girls could be considered strong female characters.
I now understand the Will Herondale hype.
god i'm so fucking emo about will herondale i got it fucking bad for that boy “Whatever you are physically...male or female, strong or weak, ill or healthy--all those things matter less than what your heart contains. If you have the soul of a warrior, you are a warrior. All those other things, they are the glass that contains the lamp, but you are the light inside.” It was interesting to read this back now in 2017 as someone much older. When I first read this in 2012, I was not even in highschoo
I was expecting to find some of this annoying or uncomfortable but surprisingly I actually still really enjoyed this bookI don't think it's as GOOD as I remember it being then, but it was still really fun, adventorous, mysterious and has some great characters.
I liked Tessa and Jem much more now then I did when I read it in 2012, and even though I've always been fucking emo about Will Herondale I think I'm actually more so.
think of WillWILL IS SUCH A SAD LITTLE SOUL AND HE TALKS ALOT OF SHIT BUT HE'S BASICALLY A GOOD HE JUST DOESN'T KNOW IT.
#1 Clockwork Angel ★★★☆☆#2 Clockwork Prince ★★★★☆#3 Clockwork Princess ★★★★★This was actually an incredibly difficult book to rate, because my feelings for it are incredibly mixed. I think part of this is my own fault; I heard so many people say how vastly they preferred this series to The Mortal Instruments that I fully expected this to be a solid 5-star read, and it sadly… wasn’t.   “One must always be careful of books,” said Tessa, “and what is inside them, for words have the power to change
Don’t get me wrong, I have fallen totally in love with Cassandra Clare’s writing—her characters and dialogue, especially—and this is still a fantastic read in those respects.
If you can read Cassie’s books and not at least crack a smile, well, I don’t know if we can be friends, because her little one-liners are so weird and always make me laugh.
Unfortunately, besides the characters I loved (which was really just those three, and Charlotte), and the laughs Will’s antics offered, this book dragged for me.
No, not at all—all said and done, it was a solid 3.5-star read for me, and I simply couldn’t justify rounding up to 4.
Please read Maggie's amazing review.
Listen guys, I tried.
I seriously tried!!!!
But this was so slow and boring for me, I just couldn't get into it no matter how hard I tried to make myself like it.
Since I already read TMI before this series, the whole info.
about Shadowhunters and stuff bored me and I really couldn't find myself caring about any of it.
P.S I really hate Will *runs away before y'all come after me with dem pitchforks and knives*---guys please pray i hate this bc i want to make this hoe crybut seriously tho, i hope i love this
Most people are constantly raving on about Clockwork Angel and the whole TID trilogy being better than TMI, and i'm like 'I ain't gonna believe that shit til i see it'. So, i brought the book. Was it better from TMI? Big, fat NO.The beginning (1-100 pg)  100-200 pages   The beginning till the middle was horrible. I had to force myself to keep on reading. It was so tedious i had to fight the urge to fall asleep. Most of the stuff was not even relevant and important! There was so much small, annoy
Most people are constantly raving on about Clockwork Angel and the whole TID trilogy being better than TMI, and i'm like 'I ain't gonna believe that shit til i see it'.
And i know it's the 18th century and most women were like that, but it was kinda annoying.
She was all like "Women don't fight.
there are sometimes glimpses of a guy that actually has a heart.
I loved that clockwork angel necklace that Tessa wears, it's so intriguing and fascinating!
(hide spoiler)]I was really annoyed with Tessa's and Will's relationship.
Clockwork Angel was not as good as book 1 in TMI series.
I originally read this....not sure when?
Probably around release date or soon after Clockwork Prince was released...but I reread by listening to the audiobook and it was fantastic!I definitely didn't love this as much as I did when I read it the first time but I still really enjoyed it!JEM IS A PRECIOUS CINNAMON ROLL.
WILL IS A TORTURED SOUL.
TESSA I JUST THE BEST.I love this world and I love the steampunk elements so much.
My only qualm with the audiobook is Gabriel Lightwood's voice because it was literally the worst.Can't wait to listen to the rest of the series on audio.
"It was books that made me feel that perhaps I wasn't completely alone."--Will Herondale  So, this is it. My very first book by the incredibly popular writer, Cassandra Clare, and she didn't disappoint me at all. I've always wanted to give her books a try and see what the hypes are about but was taken aback by such a HUGE chronicle. I mean, there are other series more or less related to The Infernal Devices or The Mortal Instruments and I have the habit of readathoning all of them. Fortunately
Instead of the control of basic elements as we usually see, using magic spells and drawing ancient symbols were comparatively more enthralling.Although I've been told the romance in Cassandra's books isn't all sunshine and rainbows, there's no denying I still hold on to a thin thread of hope that perhaps, just perhaps, Tessa and Will would develop something slightly more than friends.
Better than wasting all that feeling.” Her voice shook.“I think he did,” said Jem, “and does love you, in his way, but you cannot concern yourself with that.
Utterly brilliant.
4.5 stars. I really liked it, but I felt that it lacked something...I LOVE WILL HERONDALE.
