https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125192.They_Came_Like_Swallows
I hadn't the least suspicion that this was the perfect book to read right after I’d completed a long Virginia Woolf season but my reading life has a way of finding connections in spite of me.
I never feel exposed by them in any way.I like that explanation, and it fits with the way Virginia Woolf used the circumstances of her own life in her novels to a certain extent, mining her experience and that of her family and friends to imagine characters and scenes that she then goes on to dramatise, to fictionalise, sometimes in ways she didn’t initially foresee.
I cannot believe that in a long lifetime of reading, this is the first book I've read by William Maxwell. SO my kind of book. Basically the story of a family dealing with each other and themselves during the 1918 Spanish Flu epidemic. Probably not for plot-centric readers, but for those liking interior dialogue and growth of characters, this is a jewel.
Si uno tira una piedrita a un estanque, se crea un circulo concentrico expansivo. Y si uno tira una segunda piedra, se crea otro circulo expansivo dentro del primero. Con una tercera piedra, habra tres circulos expansivos antes de que el estanque recupere su quietud gracias a la fuerza de gravedad. Yo queria que mi novela fuera asi. William Maxwell.El punto central de Vinieron como golondrinas es Elizabeth, el sostén de la familia, el elemento que la une y la convierte en lo que es. Elizabeth, a
Elizabeth, al igual que la madre de Maxwell, muere de gripe española poco después de firmarse el armisticio que pone fin a la Primera Guerra Mundial.La novela se divide en tres partes, cada una narrada desde el punto de vista de cada uno de los miembros masculinos de la familia, los hijos, Bunny, de 8 años, y Robert, de 13, y el marido, James.
Por otro lado, con esta temática hubiese sido sencillo caer en la sensiblería, contar una historia lacrimógena y poco más, pero Maxwell consigue transmitir lo doloroso y lo bello de ese sentimiento y contar una historia emocionante, llena de momentos magistrales (esa primera parte llena de detalles, los pensamientos de Robert en el tejado, el paseo de James, o su dolor ante los objetos de Elizabeth).
The American entry made it a World War. _____ _____ _____ _____ _____The large clock in the Morison home sounds loudly, marking time.
This is a story about how the War came to Logan, Illinois.The title comes from Yeats' poem Coole Park, 1929:(view spoiler)[They came like swallows and like swallows went,And yet a woman's powerful characterCould keep a Swallow to its first intent;And half a dozen in formation there,That seemed to whirl upon a compass-point,Found certainty upon the dreaming air,The intellectual sweetness of those linesThat cut through time or cross it withershins.
(hide spoiler)]What Maxwell accomplishes, in spare sentences of perfect cadence, is to show the intersection of things: War, sickness, family.
Though not the masterpiece So Long, See You Tomorrow is, this much earlier work of Maxwell's contains many of the elements that seem to haunt much of his writing: the effect of the 1918 flu epidemic on his family and their small Illinois community, and his relationships with his older brother and their father.The narrators are the three males of the family, but the mother is the center of their lives, and of this slim novel, too.
The second chapter is from the perspective of 13-year-old Robert, who is a rambunctious but surprisingly earnest child.
But when I got to Robert's chapter, I saw how frustrating it was to have a younger brother like Bunny, who was so sensitive and frequently cried and didn't want to play rough with the other boys.
And the father's chapter was the perfect way to tie the story together, because we finally understood why he always seemed so stern and distant: "In the long run it was a mistake to have children.
This is the second book that I have read by William Maxwell and I have to say that I simply love his writing.
If you have read and liked books such as Stoner and Mrs. Bridge, then his books may be worth looking into.
These are books that are more about the beautiful and elegant prose, rather than being plot-driven.
They are all books that are subtle and simply remain with you.
The story here is about a family during the Spanish Flu epidemic in 1918.
A quote about siblings:“There was no time (no time that Bunny could remember) when Robert had not made him cry at least once between morning and night.”
It has one of the best viewpoints, narrated by Bunny, of a young sons love for his mother.
Robert, who narrates the second section, is 13, and his viewpoints of the family is a little different, not quite young, not quite grown-up.
A quiet novel about a normal family that will have to deal with more than they ever thought they would, one that will change them all.I love this author, this is the second book I have read by him and intend getting my hands on more.
William Maxwell nasceu em 1908, numa cidade do estado do Illinois chamada Lincoln.
A sua mãe, Eva, morreu durante a epidemia denominada Gripe Espanhola de 1918, quando o pequeno Bill tinha apenas 10 anos.
Vieram Como Andorinhas (They Came Like Swallows, título retirado de um poema de Yeats) foi publicado em 1937 e é uma história inspirada nesses eventos.
Passa-se igualmente no Illinois de 1918, ano que, para além da dizimadora epidemia, foi marcado ainda pelo fim da Primeira Guerra Mundial.Comecei o ano a ler Adeus, até amanhã, que penso que seja o único outro livro de Maxwell editado cá em Portugal, e agora termino-o com esta outra obra impressionante.
This is an extremely dreary and subtle novel that touched upon (though didn’t quite fully develop) the loss a child feels when he loses his mother, and the emptiness one feels when a spouse dies.Brothers, aged 8 and 13, struggle to connect with each other and to relate to the world around them, and it’s all in that unspoken, time-gone-by way of boys and toy soldiers and farms and summers.
The shock, wandering around the empty house, contemplating a lifetime of hearing his own footsteps echo… These male characters were from a time and a place where they couldn’t, or didn’t know how to, express grief.
Revi-me na infância, e reconheci todas as birras que fiz e o porquê de alguns comportamentos que tive.Constatei que, talvez em determinadas ocasiões, não tenha dado o devido valor a algumas pirraças dos meus filhos.Como mãe, senti com um misto de dor e ternura, porque é que temos de ser a cola que une todas as pontas.Um livro sem estória mirabolante, sem personagens recambolescas, mas que é um espelho, um reflexo de cada um de nós desde as pequenas dores de crescimento até às sábias provas de vida que nos fazem gente grande.
I love William Maxwell's writing.
Simple, direct & evocative.
He is able to conjure up vivid pictures with the sparsest of sentences.
This little book is beautiful and compulsive reading (I got through it in just over 2 hours), despite its tragic subject matter.
Set at the time of the Spanish Flu outbreak it focuses on the Morison family and how they are directly affected by it.
Maxwell seems to have a wonderful understanding of how children think (he reminds me of Esther Freud in that respect) His characters are well rounded and likeable.
I recommend this powerful little novella wholeheartedly.
(4.5) With this being my first exposure to William Maxwell, I was expecting something highly emotional and well written.
Getting through the first three quarters of this book, I had yet to see anything of true emotion, but once I saw it, it was seen and I couldn't get enough of it.
I don't think I've read a book that has went from a 2-3 star to a 4-5 star so quickly within just a few pages, much less a couple paragraphs.
Despair is Maxwell's niche and it worked for me.
...folhas e folhas de papel escritas, riscadas, rasgadas e amachucadas...e nada para partilhar...porque não há palavras que descrevam a Perfeição...Vieram como andorinhas e como andorinhas se foram,E, porém, a força de uma mulherPôde manter uma andorinha na sua rota.E meia dúzia em formação,Como o rodopio de uma agulha de bússola,Encontrou certeza no ar sonhador... W. B. Yeats
Muito bem escrito e sentimentos que nos são tão familiares fazem deste um livro perfeito. A simplicidade com que o autor retrata esta família é assustadoramente próxima de qualquer um de nós. Muito bom!
Reading it was like walking into the warmth of beautifully loved parlor, full of polished furniture, a ticking clock, thick rugs, and a mother, hemming diapers, whose smile could heal all your wounds.The book is set in 1918 during the great flu pandemic, and involves the Morison family.
All are males who are deeply attached to and affected by Elizabeth, wife and mother, whose love for them is lightly worn but profoundly felt.
Elizabeth's significance to her husband and two sons is heartrending and powerful.
. ."It was difficult to close the book when I was done.
I read somewhere (on an Amazon review, I think) that Eileen Battersby, a critic, said that Maxwell had the gift of illuminating the "unspoken but faintly understood." I nod in agreement.
In an effort to come back to the book, I'll say that, for anyone who like simple prose and simple ideas, this is really a must-read.
I think Maxwell is one of the wisest writers I've read.
Love for the mother and each other real life expressed within their own physical and cognitive realities.
And quite beyond the emotions or deeply affectionate loving care.The most appreciated feature of Goodreads experience for me has been introduction to masterful authors of the past who I have somehow entirely missed.
William Maxwell is absolutely one.
It's not my favorite of his but it is nearly perfect.
Although my childhood was nearly 40 years later, some of the most poignant memories were quite similar.
I still have William Maxwell works to read.
Agrada-me muito chegar a livros inesperadamente… Este veio parar-me às mãos depois de ter “tropeçado” nele numa divisão da minha casa. Por aqui, como que por magia, os livros brotam como cogumelos…Abençoado tropeção!Existem muitos livros bons. Os livros perfeitos são raríssimos, este é um deles.
Beautifully written, bittersweet novella.
“Vieram Como as Andorinhas” está dividido em três livros: Livro I “Quem é o meu anjo?”, sob o olhar inseguro e ansioso de Bunny, com oito anos de idade; o Livro II “Robert”, o irmão mais velho de Bunny, de treze anos, retratado como uma personagem intolerante e por último o Livro III “Numa agulha de bússola”, sobre o indeciso e inseguro James Morison.
Published in 1937, "They Came Like Swallows" is an autobiographical novella about the darkest time in William Maxwell's childhood.
The story of the Morison family reflected with heart-searing sharpness the loss 10-year-old Maxwell must have experienced at the sudden death of his mother.
"They Came Like Swallows" had echoes of "So Long, See You Tomorrow" that captured an adolescent's grief when his widowed father remarried.
In both novels was the ambivalence of the relationship between father and son that made both boys that much more dependent on their mother for her love and affirmation.
This very likely sprang from Maxwell's own encounter with loss.
More than half the joy of reading this book is adjusting to fit into 3 different person's heads, and then to zoom back at the end and put the story together. It could be considered a study of personality or family relationships, or even how we within families have different slants on the same events, events we experienced together but that seem entirely different experiences to each. Maxwell has written a masterpiece of perspectives, in that sense. I haven't read anything quite like it.
and live on in my mind and heart.I also loved the way that the house, its clocks and rugs and curtains and wallpapers were characters in their own right, particularly in Bunny’s part: as if they had the capacity to take on his moods and reflect them back to him.
And I loved his soaring imagination with his everyday playthings – and his disappointment when they once again became collapsible drinking cups, a ruler and a block of stone when he had seen them as ‘walls, gates … broken parapets and towers’.The incomprehensibility of death to the teenage Robert was beautifully written too.
And the father’s loneliness in his grief and Bunny’s tears were all almost unbearable: each response so right for each character.
I wonder whether I could say too much about They Came like Swallows – I think there is an inevitability to certain events that the reader expects from the very first page, in a sense I don’t think there are any surprises or shocks.
If you happen to be reading this novella currently however, perhaps you better not read any further than this until you are finished.Illinois 1918 and Elizabeth Morison is an ordinary middle class wife and mother – a wife and mother like so many others, but of course, like every other wife and mother she is the centre of her family’s life.
How could life ever possibly go on without her in it?
Our book club had an interesting discussion of the complex book, which at first glance we expected to be similar to our previous month’s read ("Crow Lake"), but which was really very different.
(We found "Crow Lake," written by a woman, more engaging.) We thought Maxwell’s own history of having lost his mother at a young age affected how closely he could get to these characters; he seemed to be holding them at arm’s length.
Particularly interesting is that the author manages to paint a portrait of the mother, yet gives her virtually no voice.
The story takes place in a midwestern Illinois town in 1918 and begins on the day before the armistice.
The Spanish Influenza is rampant, and the Morison family copes the best they can.
The story is told from the points of view of 8 year old Bunny, his older brother, Robert, and their father, James.
This is a very close loving family.
The author took a fairly simple story and turned it into a thing of absolute beauty and human emotion (yes, I sobbed..).
I plan to read all of Maxwell's other books.
If I could write a book, it would be this one.
Sobre afectos e as razões que explicam determinados comportamentos...Há sempre razões para as pessoas serem como são!!!Vieram como andorinhas e como andorinhas se foram,E, porém, a força de uma mulherPôde manter uma andorinha na sua rota.E meia dúzia em formação,Como o rodopio de uma agulha de bússola,Encontrou certeza no ar sonhador..Uma andorinha pode fazer a primavera*
I am so impressed with Maxwell's ability to subtly yet effectively capture mood so that you can almost feel a character's emotions yourself. Just a lovely book.Ratings (1 to 5)Writing: 5Plot: 4Characters: 4Emotional impact: 5Overall rating: 4.5
A sensitive, tender and heart wrenching story of a wife and mother's love and care through the eyes of her two sons and husband. Beautifully written. Having just lost my father unexpectedly this book caused me to reflect on the rhythm of life and how much we need and depend on each other.
