https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1767779.Five_Little_Monkeys_Jumping_on_the_Bed
Review  4+ of 5 stars to Eileen Christelow's children's story Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed, one of a bunch in a series about little monkeys and their crazy antics. This wonderful little book wasn't published until I was around ten years old, but I still read it one summer in a reading contest held at my library every year. I was so excited to pick out new books... sometimes children's books meant for kids younger than me, sometimes books meant for older kids... and by 12, I was readi
4+ of 5 stars to Eileen Christelow's children's story Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed, one of a bunch in a series about little monkeys and their crazy antics.
And I call my cousin's and friend's kids little monkeys now whenever I'm around them.
kids learn what it means to tell a story, to write a rhyme, to sing along, to behave, to listen, to see what happens in a book series over the course of a character's journey...
Where'd all my monkeys go????Writing this review makes me smile...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
Every child I know can sing this little rhyme. This edition is a little board book that I picked up for the kids. They will enjoy it and be singing this for days. I recommend it for the old and young alike.
This is one of my favorite children's book of all time.
Oddly, it was never read to me as a child, but read by my mother to her grandchildren.
I loved listening in though because, in the book, what Mama does when she finally gets all her children in bed results, every time, in howls of laughter from all parties.
Just one small problem: the result of the five little monkeys jumping on the bed is basically the same, absolutely repetitive.
I can pick it up and read it and feel good instantly: a quick happy hour martini-read.
We always end up having a discussion on the monkeys NOT obeying their mama. 3/25/17 Read with Naomi & Julia.
How could I possibly have forgotten the million times I read this with my daughters when they were still little ones.
I'm totally crying as I've been going down memory lane for months, trying to come to grips with the fact that they're grown and almost ready to move on into this great big world, so I highly, highly recommend any and every parent to grab this book, cuddle up with your kids and create some of the best and most memorable times reading together.
This book is very short, yet full of laughter and fun which then becomes a stronger bond, together time with love and beautiful memories.
I can still hear the singing rhyme of the Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed as sung by my mother when I was a little Girl.
Eileen Christelow brings this rhyme to life in the picture book retelling of this classic story.
Five little monkeys climb into bed after saying goodnight to their mother.
Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed is a fun, read-aloud book to initiate and promote counting in young children.
This book would be great for preschool-kindergarten age children as five is a very small number and is easy to count on fingers.
This is a very cute, sing-song kind of book, one of a series of "Five Little Monkeys".
It's funny, because I remember the counting song we used to sing in high school, "There were five in the bed and the little one said, 'Roll over, roll over.' So they all rolled over and one fell out, he hit the floor and his guts fell out.
The mama calls the doctor and the doctor says, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" And it repeats until they've all fallen off the bed.
Obviously perfect for toddlers
The fun of "Five Little Monkeys" is the way it rhymes and the sing-song nature of it. This particular retelling loses a lot of that fun, interrupting the flow of the sing-song for interjected comments from Momma. I imagine this could have been done well but in this case it cause a lot of stumbling when the book was read aloud. It's not a terrible book but it's not the version of the sing-song that I would opt to read aloud, given a few options.
This book is very engaging for young children because they sing along the book. it teaches number concepts,to count down 5,4,3,2 and 1. It also help the kids to listen before they get hurt.
This book will always be a classic to me. It is a light-hearted book that is good for nearly any age. This book would be beneficial in earlier classrooms. It is a whimsical tale that can get any child laughing at the monkeys. It also impromptus a lesson at the end which is good for children reading. It gives them a take-away.
This is a classic book that is designed to match a nursery rhyme. Children can learn repetition from this book because it repeats what the mother says and what the doctor says. Finally, it teachers math, safety and sequencing.
Book helps with math
I like this book.this book is talk about it is time for five little monkeys go to bed but they have trouble one by one , after they got hurt ,they finally all fall asleep and the mother monkey can took a break and sleep too. The young children may respond like that “when the monkey mother called the doctor ,and the doctor say no more monkey jumping on bed “. Children will say no more monkey jumping on bed.when I read this book for young children when monkey get hurt ,I will ask children what monkeys should do ?
Text-to-TeachingI would use this book for a teaching book. I would say that I would use this book for teaching because it can be used to help the students count to the number 5. I think that this book would also teach the children how to follow directions. I would have an activity where we would have five students acting out the book. But it would almost be like duck duck goose. I think that the children would love that.
1. Awards the book has received (if any): IRA/CBC Children’s Choice2. Appropriate grade level(s): Pre-school to grade 13. Original 3-line summary: Five little monkeys get ready for bed and say goodnight to their mom. As soon as their mom leaves, the five little monkeys start jumping on the beds and falling off one after the other. Mama monkey addresses the situation by consulting the doctor, taking care of their wounds, and saying "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!"4. Original 3-line review: T
Original 3-line summary: Five little monkeys get ready for bed and say goodnight to their mom.
As soon as their mom leaves, the five little monkeys start jumping on the beds and falling off one after the other.
Original 3-line review: This song book has adorable animations and is super interactive for children.
Children can follow along with the repetition as well as doing creative gestures that follow along with the words in the story such as shaking their head and wagging their finger for the line "no more monkeys jumping on the bed!" It's a silly book that children will love!5.
Award:Grade:ToddlerSummary: Five little monkeys want to jump on the bed. But, Mama tells them not to. It's time to go to sleep.Review: This is one of my favorites. I use it in my toddler room all the time. It's a favorite for the kids.Uses:•Teach about monkeys•Teach about listening •Teach book concepts
A regular go to book for monkey and sick story times.
(SLB Great Big Hits or Literacy in Motion or Wee Sing Children's Songs for Lap Time.)The classic song in picture book format with a surprise twist at the end.
(One parent gaffawed.) 2/1/12Used in Lap Time and PJ Story Time and it was a huge hit at both.
(Don't use song on 1 Elephant) 12/8/14Used for monkey story time and we did it as a participation story time.
(used the song on Literacy in Motion CD after both created huge excitement and joyful participation - maybe do as last book...)
Five little monkeys jumping on the bed is an appropriate cross curricular book for EYFS, SEN, EAL and lower ks1. The book is about five little monkeys jumping on the bed; one by one they fall off and bump their heads.The book uses humour, repetition and rhyme to engage the reader. The simplicity and repetition makes this a fantastic book for early mathematics learners as well as a possible starting point for poem writing and learning how to use rhyme.The animation supports the literature making it an appropriate book for EAL.
At first this one elicited from my toddler a resounding "no" accompanied by a vigorous head shake and a forced closure of the book mid sentence, but after a few tries, it's become a new favorite. Depending on his mood, he will sometimes act out the books "no"'s with a head shake and finger wag and reach for his head (or mine or my husband's) when the monkeys bump their head. Such a fun book for us right now!
I've sung the song to my daughter but it didn't really hold her attention (maybe it's because my singing voice leaves much to be desired) but she was fascinated by this book and the illustrations are very well done.
Both sleeping arrangements and lack of accident prevention are questionable and will probably raise some eyebrows over at Child Protective Services. Doctor's advice though is pretty consistent, which teaches the value of high-quality healthcare.
I liked this book. It teaches young children to count up to five and backwards. There is also a song for this story and children love to sing and dance.I think children will enjoy reading the book. It has nice pictures and the repetition in the book will help them learn their numbers.
Those goddamn monkeys. I hate this story.
read it to baby Elizabeth :D
I really liked the book. The book was about 5 little stubborn monkeys. I would recommenced this book to anyone.
Classic song put into book form. My kids enjoy this song/story.
This is the classic rhyme in picture book form. Kids love to shout, "No more monkeys jumping on the bed!" along with me. It is always fun to use in storytime.
I like to get a little sassy while reading this book to Ruth.
I think Mama Monkey needs to work on her follow-through.
