https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40184.Encore_Provence
It has nice weight and heft after the insubstantial stories in Toujours Provence and has the same charming competent humorous writing style as A Year in Provence.
I enjoy the way he chases down a story and the lengths to which he’ll go to follow up on interesting possibilities like the perfumery school for blind children, the processing of olive oil and the perfect corkscrew.
I maintain that I’d like to know him and hang out with him in Provence – as it seems many other readers have wanted over the years – and even more than that, I’d love a life like his.
O carte dezamăgitoare! Mult mai slabă decât "Un an în Provence".
Onvan : Encore Provence: New Adventures in the South of France - Nevisande : Peter Mayle - ISBN : 679762698 - ISBN13 : 9780679762690 - Dar 240 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1992
In this book, Mayle (who, if you’re unfamiliar with his Provence books, moved along with his wife from England to Provence after chucking up a career in advertising) discusses—with his inimitable sense of humour and his obvious affection for Provence and its people—all things Provence, from the people to the laws, the land and its produce, the fabulous food.
There are fascinating, personal, and informative chapters on the selling and buying of truffles; on olives and olive oil; on the making and mixing of perfumes (not to mention what goes into developing a perfumer’s nose, and a description of a day spent at an amazing ‘school’ where blind teenagers are taught to smell).
І то так відчутно, що майже вдихаєш запах лаванди, чуєш, як під подувом містралю шелестить листя на столітніх оливах, слухаєш скрип старих віконниць, відчуваєш смак доброго вина...
Здавалося, читати "Ще один рік в Провансі", не прочитавши першої частини - дурна ідея.
Але це схоже не на рекламу чи довідку, а на явки-паролі "для своїх".
На її сторінках оживають колоритні персонажі французьких містечок - такі, що хоч зараз бери і пиши "під них" роман.
Тут анекдотичні історійки перемежовуються з розповідями про особливості різних аспектів життя у Провансі.
Але мене, я знаю точно, мрія про Прованс відпустить не скоро.
Enjoyable, Mayle in good form. Having read his previous books some years ago it's nice to revisit the dusty roads of Provence and rekindle dormant daydreams.
After I read and thoroughly enjoyed Peter Mayle’s Provence (1991) and Toujours Provence (1992), I turned my attention to other readings, not knowing that a few years later (1999) , Mayle had completed a trilogy with Encore Provence, written after he and his wife had left their home in the south of France, and moved to southern California for few years. This delightful account of how they readjusted from California back to Provençal life lives up to the spirit and cultural observations of the fi
This delightful account of how they readjusted from California back to Provençal life lives up to the spirit and cultural observations of the first two books, plus has the added dimension of some interesting histories—for example of the city of Marseille and the nearby Château d’If, the olive oil and pâté de foie gras industries, and the lavender fields and perfume factories of Haute Provence.
Mayle begins with a few comparisons of the fast-paced California life and the “rampant informality” of Americans to the slower gait of the Provençals as well as the typically French trait of discretion.
Oh my, give me another book by Peter Mayle please. This is a revisit to a lovely place that the author loved. Provence - truffles, vineyards, olives. Virtually meeting those lovely people who love wine, gardening and food. A place where peace and quiet still reigns.
For it's genre, this is a great book.
I'm a big fan of books where not much has to happen.
This book was interesting, informative, witty and even laugh-out-loud funny at times.
Peter Mayle thinks a great deal about food - where it comes from, how to get it, how to cook it, how it tastes, etc.
A good deal of the book is devoted to variations on his food theme.
This is one of those books that I would categorize as extremely pleasant - an antidote to the real world.
I was lucky enough to read the third installment of Peter Mayle's Provence trilogy in Provence itself recently.
Not exactly in The Luberon though, we were staying in the slighty busier, more touristy part of Frejus but I'm not complaining, it's a beautiful place.As with the first two books it's like curling up with an old friend, an old witty francophile friend that causes you to laugh out loud (very possibly startling nearby sun-worshippers)and teaches you something new each time you engage with it/him/her.
As far as I know this is the last one but I also know if another does come out I'll definitely be reading it.
Equally I'll definitely be going back to Provence.
Where felt like a Dear Diary and I loved it, Encore Provence feels more like a How To and I only liked it. Encore Provence really gets more specific, and detailed, and Provence loses a lot of its magic fairyland feel, becoming more of a Real Place. A Real Place I want to visit, no doubt, but not asap. I almost wonder if Mayle did this deliberately, to discourage people like me from visiting, and messing up his magic fairyland! If so, touche.
Харесвам Питър Мейл и третата част от поредицата му за Прованс ми допадна. Книгата е по-скоро пътепис, а не роман. Сборник от истории, написан с приятно чувство за хумор, усет към детайла, любов към храната и природата. Книга, която носи сетивна наслада и удоволствие.
A pure delight as always and a joy to reread
Just as entertaining as his other Provence books.
Love all the Peter books!
3+
Revisiting familiar subjects: boules, French cars, olive oil, truffles, delicious meals.
I'm taking a trip to Provence and wanted to read about it before going. My daughter had given me Mayle's books awhile ago. I read the first one then, and just finished the second one. Mayle is an excellent writer, and I like how he gets to the nuts of bolts of the French mindset. I recommend his books.
I borrowed  Encore Provence from my workplace for some Christmas/New Year relaxation.Written a decade after the first two volumes, the elapsed time included relocation to California.
His reflections on a transplanted London advertising executive turned Luberon wine-maker and the benefit of agricultural work makes even this brown-thumb want to take up food-growing.Not that life in Provence is perfect.
Perhaps it is also because, as a whole, the French (like the Italians) have discovered (or have never forgotten) that time spent over good food with good company, washed down with good wine is not one of the finer things in life.
You’ve got Mayle!Peter Mayle’s “Encore Provence” …the third novel in his Provence series.
The novel - so vivid and rich in its explanation of the smallest detail of life in Provence - makes one yearn to be transplanted to that picturesque landscape.
As I made my way through its pages, Mayle’s cheeky humour (almost sarcastic at times) had me giggling surreptitiously on the bus this morning.
More to follow…including rating and reaction to the book in entirety.Another success in non-fiction, Encore Provence is agile and amusing (aren’t all of Mayle’s works?).
Given that encore means "again" and toujours means "forever" I understandably mistook this book to be the second in the series, rather than the third, and so I read them out of order.
There are some of those, but mostly this reads like a travel magazine assignment or a series of blog posts.
I was put off by an oddly sexist outburst in the middle of an otherwise inoffensive chapter on corkscrews and knives in which Mayle starts effectively thinking out loud on the page about whatever in the world a laaaaaady need with a knife?
After perusing I find it is seven years since I read a bit of Peter Mayle during my summer vacation.
That’s the best way to read Mayle, basking in the sun, alongside shimmering water.
It has a very unsavory reputation and has very long time, so I still wonder why my father insisted I be named for it.
I do have a few more Mayle books I haven’t yet read, but they are best saved for a future summer vacation, but hopefully it won’t be another seven years before a return to Provence.
To my surprise, there is reference to Ruth Reichl of the New York Times (not a very pleasant impression from Ruth though), it's interesting because I'm a fan of Ruth Reichl's books too (but I only remember that fling in Paris :/)This book has many charming moments but like Toujours Provence, it's not tightly bound around a timeline in A Year in Provence.
Without the lively intimacy and personalities that made A Year in Provence such a captivating book, Toujours and Encore sound like a a frayed collection of anecdotes and afterthoughts, but it's still nice to have them as companions.
The final book in the series written after being absent for a few years. Lovely fun read with lots of trivial but interesting info on Provence. I might have never known about the school for blind children started by L'Occitane or that the best corkscrews in the world are made by Langiuole the French knife makers, or that juniper wood is a natural moth and insect repellent. I am looking forward to moving on to his novels next.
This isn't what I feel is Mayle's best in his examinations on Provence, but it's still one of the better ones. Much of what he talks about here is stuff he's covered before, though from a period of absence. Still, like in the others I like best, he follows where the whims take him as opposed to trying to make things fit too much of a structure. It works better for me and I think it suits the material more. I certainly enjoyed reading.
I really liked the first two books. This one is so boring I could hardly get through it. Peter Mayle needs to find a new topic to write about because this one is tired. I think the difference is that in the first two books he wrote about things that happened to him, but in this book, he is doing research and trying to find stories and things to happen to him. This one is heading to the giveaway pile.
A nice visit back to what we read in A Year in Province. Mayle still has a keen eye and sense of kind humor to the residents of Province and I find his writing interesting and honest. There will be some call backs to the first book in this series, but it reads much better than the second book, Toujours Provence. If you enjoyed A Year in Province, I would recommend skipping Toujours and going straight to this one.
Peter Mayle delivers again. I just read this on my South of France vacation and enjoyed it immensely. I'd already read "A Year in Provence" and "Toujours Provence" and I recommend reading those first. They are light reads, but highly entertaining, and Mayle has a knack for nailing the Provencial lifestyle. Numerous times as I was reading it, it seemed as though he were describing a situation I'd just encountered. Best read during or after a trip to Southern France.
I thoroughly enjoyed Mayle's A Day in Provence and Toujours Provence which I read several years ago. Encore Provence was just as good. It's about Mayle's experiences living in Provence (he's an Englishman). This one was written 10 years after the second book. This was written 12 years ago, but I'm looking forward to seeing what he describes. He has a delightful way of explaining his life and escapades in Provence. It's like you're sitting with him as he discusses them. Entertaining.
IF you are a travel buff and/or a gourmand (of the armchair type) than Encore Provence is for you. Peter Mayle has a gentle, friendly writing style, and a deep love and respect for his subject. I'm not a foodie; wine and truffles are not for me, but just reading about them make me feel well traveled and well fed.Couple this book with Mayles A Year in Provence and Under the Tuscan Sun (book AND movie) and travel to wonderful places, with no lines at the airport.
