https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40630.How_Europe_Underdeveloped_Africa
The main theme of the book is that underdevelopment was made possible by positive feedback loops starting with the uneven development in earlier centuries enforced by European constant exploitation of raw materials and human labor from Africa.
The “natural” path of development from communalism to feudalism and capitalism in Africa was messed up by the European slave trade.
The trade in slave was facilitated by African rulers’ greed for luxury goods and European products.
Africans were reduced to basic labor jobs which never stimulated technological advances or improved means of production.
I believe that it is not only the current and aftereffects of European domination,but the mindset of Africans themselves.The same type of destruction of traditional culture took place on other continents by Europeans, but Africa seems to have borne the brunt of it all.There is a self-evident intolerance within the Caucasian psyche for African features and values, and thus there has been a continuous process of assimilation.I am Black, and am totally enamoured by jet-black skin and exaggerated buttocks on black women.
Globalization of capitalism == neo-colonial exploitation, and to fight it, ditch oppressive trade treaties, support local industries, trade with your neighbours.- "Throughout the colonial period the [different between the prices of exported raw materials and imported manufactured goods] got worse [in Europe's favour].
This essentially killed inter-Africa trade, forcing African civilizations to only trade with European and other western economies.
When European powers grew as a result of the profits from trade, they then carved Africa into its current state and entered the continent to force more and more production of things that would increase profit for the western markets.
This book left me further convinced in the concept of reparations, not just for slavery, but for the destruction of an entire continent and all the people that came from there in the last 500 years.I usually reserve five stars for books that I consider feminist as well as good.
First I had bought and read this book as a teenager, then I had to read it in college. Now - I found it and wanted to read it again just for myself. Changed my thinking. I am going to re-read the mis-education of the negro.
Just read this for class. It is a political/economic commentary on capitalism from the perspective of a socialist. If you care or wonder about the socioeconomic conditions of African nations and why it is the way it is read this book- a little bit at a time.
A historiographical approach to the detriment of African plight and continued exploitation Very rele
A must read for Africa's leaders and its people. In this book, Walter Rodney, uses historical materialism to explain the nature of Africa's current underdevelopment and economic backwardness." To know the present we must look into the past and to know the future we must look into the past and the present". This is the essence of the book and trust me, the analysis is profound and an added advantage is that it is clear and concise.
Excellent review of the issues caused by colonialism. The author tries to strike a balance between both sides of the issue, and covers complex problems in a very approachable manner.
A very, very important book.
Rodney's book conveys how Europe and the US got to the positions they are in today, and of course, how Africa was REDUCED to the state it is in now.
He shows how the aggrandizement of the West is directly tied to the immense amount of knowledge and resources that Africa provided prior to the coming of the slave trade and colonialism (however he could have elaborated on this more), followed by the benefits of the hyper-exploitation that Africans endured due to the actions of the racist, hypocritical, and oppressive Western Powers.
This eminence had a direct relationship to the rise of Europe prior to the colonial epoch.
The legacy and work that Rodney has left behind is still blazing and still waiting for a people to take up the torch and set ablaze the hearts of men who are still being exploited and caught up in the myths of development.
It feels as though I have come from the future to warn them there is nothing there worth losing your soul over.
And so we return to the beginning, to the people, those we have exploited and left behind to depend on foreign aid.
Rodney provides a well-researched and detailed Marxist analysis of the systemic role of European colonialism, racism, and capitalist exploitation and its impact on the history of Africa. The book seems a bit dated now (it was originally published in 1972), particularly in regards to Rodney's unquestioningly high regard for Mao's China and other "socialist" governments that have since been more thoroughly critiqued. However, the negative economic effects of "free trade"/globalization/colonialism are ongoing, and Rodney's arguments are still indespensably relevant.
A truly seminal work of historic analysis. I should have read this some years back but didn't, I'm glad that has been rectified.Though I don't agree with the author's pre-suppositions on socialism, his insights and analyses of Africa's contact with capitalist Europe through slave trade and colonialism, and Africa's development before this contact occured are eye-opening to say the least.
This is an absolutely required reading for all those who are interested in African/African American History. I study this book during college as part of a work-study program. Others books included were Capitalism and Slavery; The World and Africa; and George Padmore's book on Pan Africanism.
Yes it is dated and flawed in numerous ways, however it meticulously conveys a truth that is unfortunately still often ignored even 50 years later: The riches of the Enlightenment in Europe did not come for free, and they certainly don’t prove any intrinsic superiority of the West.
I found it useful to refer to Marx and Fanon for context.The book has numerous flaws.
I wonder if perhaps information about the atrocities committed by Stalin had not reached him at this time and place.Despite the flaws, the book has really deepened the way I think about colonialist exploitation and I look forward to the new edition next fall.
Walter Rodney's scholarly book makes compelling arguments for the relative underdevelopment of Africa being significantly due in part to the involvement of Europeans in African affairs starting with the Atlantic slave trade - which commenced in the 15th century and lasted into the late 19th century - through to the colonial period which existed between the 1880s up to the 1960s.
Rodney accepts that before the arrival of the Europeans much of Africa was either at the communal or feudal stages of development (if you follow Karl Marx's approach to analyzing history); therefore African states were comparatively underdeveloped when compared with European states at that time.
This is one of the earliest and very best applications of dependency theory. Anyone interested in neo-Marxist theories of political economy ought to read this book.
Wow! What an eye opener? The historical trace of global economics to its present dynamism is serious. It remains the best book I have ever read.
I became aware of this book reading Andrew Rice’s “The Teeth May Smile but the Heart Does Not Forget: Murder and Memory in Uganda”, where Andrew refers to this book as a classic.Reading this book gave me:- Profound insights into Africa’s contemporary issues, from an interconnected point of view, taking into account stakeholders and influencers on a global level.- A good high-level understanding of the feudal societies in Africa before contact with Europe was established.- A better comprehension over how the Atlantic slave trade operated, and a grasp of the huge significance it’s had on the shape of the modern world.
An indispensable overview of the last half-millennium of relations between Africa and Europe, describing in meticulous detail the means by which European (and Euro-derived) dominance of the global economy was achieved in no small part thanks to the ruthless and relentless subjugation of Africa and its peoples. One of the handful of books that pretty much everybody should read.
And nothing has changed since he wrote the book, many of the case studies he uses of the multinational companies he lambastes in this book, are still around.
"Colonialism created conditions which led not just to periodic famine, but to chronic undernourishment, malnutrition and deterioration in the physique of the African people.
The poster represented a case of Kwashiorkor — extreme malignant malnutrition.
Oxfam never bothered their consciences by telling them that capitalism and colonialism created the starvation, suffering and misery of the child in the first place."
The book is full of chilling facts on how we Africans have been exploited and how also permitted the exploitation to take troll on us, either through ignorance or force. The book has been an eye opener to me.
Amazing book
I read this book while studying abroad in Sub-Saharan Africa. It's amazing. Highly recommend it! Will give you more insight into the continent of Africa than watching an Oprah special...
THE Glimpse it offers into tyrannical Europe is too vivid, and provokes emotions.
A must read for a different account which shows the reason behind the current state of affairs in Africa.
Deeply touching! Gave me a real insight of the relationship between Europe and Africa...
Eye opening description of what capitalist exploitation of Africa has looked like since the 16th century.
He identifies some of todays most ubiquitous corporations as culprits in this international scandal, including Unilever.An interesting anecdote from my personal life about this book:When I was a Sophomore or Junior at Seton Hall, I took a class titled "Public Institutions and Black Self-Determination." The professor was a fairly well known Malcolm X historian who wrote an interesting if under-read book about the last months of Malcolm's life/career in which he led the "Organization for Afro American Unity." One day in class, this professor, in a moment of tangential instruction, wrote the name "Walter Rodney" on the dry erase board and sort of rhetorically asked if any of us had heard of this obscure African historian and activist.
