https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35743.The_Tin_Drum
Or, rather, I loved to hate it, while I was reading it.
I thought he was awful.
I couldn't believe they enjoyed him, much less admitted to enjoying him.
I couldn't believe it.
And at the end, when I reached the last page, when I finished and shut the book...I was grateful.
Not to have finished it; I was grateful that I got to read it in the first place.
With every bit of my smiley, idealistic being I say...Thank God.
(Or, rather, Thank Grass.) There isn't always easy beauty, or recognizable beauty around us.
Διατηρείται ως τα 18 του χρόνια στο ύψος ενός τρίχρονου παιδιού απο μίσος για την οικογένεια και τον κόσμο που τον περιβάλλει.
Ο Όσκαρ, αυτός ο αυτοκαταστροφικός και σοφά παρανοϊκός νάνος κρατείται σε ψυχιατρείο με τη θέληση του για ένα έγκλημα που δεν διέπραξε.
Το τενεκεδένιο ταμπούρλο είναι η μηχανή του χρόνου, το ρυθμικό χτύπημα ανάκλησης αναμνήσεων που γράφονται απο τον Όσκαρ σε γυάλινο χαρτί, στον καθρέφτη που απεικονίζει την παραμορφωμένη εικόνα του ίδιου και ολοκλήρου του κόσμου.
Ο θάνατος ενός απο τους πατέρες..του Όσκαρ κατά την σοβιετική εισβολή.
Είναι σίγουρα ένα βιβλίο που αποτελεί πρόκληση για όλους.
462. Die Blechtrommel = The Tin Drum, Günter GrassThe Tin Drum (German: Die Blechtrommel) is a 1959 novel by Günter Grass. The novel is the first book of Grass's Danziger Trilogie (Danzig Trilogy) and winner of the Nobel Prize in literature. It was adapted into a 1979 film, which won both the Palme d'Or, in the same year, and the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film the following year. The story revolves around the life of Oskar Matzerath, as narrated by himself when confined in a mental
Gifted with a piercing shriek that can shatter glass or be used as a weapon, Oskar declares himself to be one of those "clairaudient infants", whose "spiritual development is complete at birth and only needs to affirm itself".
در این رمان رخدادهایی در دوران هیتلر آمده، که کودک نیز شاهد آنها بوده است، و نقشی در آنها ایفا کرده است.
سوف أتفهم من يقرأ الورقات الأولى ويتوقف عن العمل ليس لمللٍ قد يعتريه بقدر الجهد المضني الذي يتطلبه قراءة هذا النص المعقد والذي حبكت أجزائه بإحترافية عالية كان التكلف عنصرًا طاغيًا عليها.
لكن هذا لن يصيبك بحيرة رغم بعض التشتت الذي سوف يزول وفق خلفياتك السابقة ومعرفتك بعظيم الروايات.
هذا النص خرج نعم خرج من رحم رواية (طبل الصفيح) دون جدال.
No regard for what others think, no imparity in our straightforward vision, we arm ourselves with nothing but a tin-drum, the distilled pureness of life, a weapon against the mockery and scorn of adulthood, this sickness called youth.
His disparate experiences which will make you laugh, feel pain, confusion, anger and a whole motley crew of other emotions is the ultimate story of man in a backdrop of extremes yet is the story of a person who chose to live life in his own terms.
Let’s pray that we, like Oskar, find our own tin drums that will give a steady beat of purpose to our hearts.
I thought it was interesting in the abstract, but at times I couldn't stand reading it.
The unreliable main character Oskar, decides to stop growing at the age of three .
He refuses to speak, and communicates by banging on his titular drum.
The crazy characters are intersting and funny at first, but there's no connection between them, and after a while their strangeness gets boring and repetitive.
I really wanted to like this book, and I know a lot of people love it, but I'm never reading this one again.
One of those books you read and remember them after years of reading masses of other books. A masterpiece...
Oskar Matzerath, son of a local dealer, is a most unusual boy.
Sherbet fizzRe-Read details: As Hitler rises to power, three-year-old Oskar decides he doesn't want to grow up.
Broadcast on:blurb - Classic novel of the rise and fall of Hitler as seen through the eyes of the dwarfish narrator, Oskar Matzerath.Not caring for the world he is growing up in, a small boy determines to remain a child.
The epic sweep of Grass' novel satirises German nationalism and the rise and fall of the Nazi movement.___Brilliant portrayal of a youngster in denial of real-life.
هذه السنوات الـ 30 الحافلة والموتورة التي قرر خلالها الطفل اوسكار أن يتوقف عن النمو الجسدي، حيث أنه اختار أن يبقى على مسافة بينه وبين عالم الكبار الفاسد والعنيف، وعايش كذلك صعود النازية لحكم ألمانيا، وبدايات الحرب العالمية، ومارس أيضاً علاقة غير مشروعة مع زوجة أبيه الثانية انتهت بكارثة، بالإضافة لدوره الأساس في مقتل والديه، وكان شاهداً بعدها كفنان على ألمانيا ما بعد الحرب العالمية القانية.
ولا أعتقد أن غونتر غراس استطاع أن يكتب عن هذه السنوات الـ 30 الأولى من عمر بطل الرواية أوسكار التي اختلطت فيها أحداث حياة أوسكار العجائبية مع تاريخ وطنه المأساوي بكل ما فيه من دم وقبح، بدون أن يبني هيكلاً ضخماً ومعقداً يحمل على أعمدته المادة الروحية والرسالة الأخلاقية التي أراد أن يوصلها غراس لألمانيا والعالم.
Onions and Potatos  In the very first chapter, I was reminded of Midnight Children because of Oscar's conversational tone of narrative - same as that of Saleem Shinai. Once MC was in my mind couldn't help locating similarities - both narrators start their stories with first meeting of their maternal grandparents, both like talking about sex, both of them feel need to hide from world (Oskar in grandmother's skirts, Shinai in londery box) etc. Still there are enough differences, MC is more magic
There are some allegorical elements - Oscar's mother (the source of harmony in his world) dies at onset of war, Oscar polish uncle (whom he calls his biological father) dies when Poland falls to Russians and his German father dies with fall of Germany trying to swallow Nazi party pin.
Oskar is a dwarf with a glass-breaking voice - and in one scene is seen shouting at enchanted people (can you imagine some dwarf with a loud, destructive and seductive voice?).His favorite toy is Tin Drum - a common sight in war times, for armies marched on sound of drums.
Cupid (aka Eros), the god of Love, is depicted as a child, like a tiny cherub.
Venus was worried that her son would never grow, but some wise god or other told her that Cupid would never grow until he himself found love.
I believe that Grass's Oskar is the story of Cupid told through a series of anecdotes set in WWII Germany.
I bet Grass as a young child was obsessed with the story of Cupid and his struggle between right and wrong the way young Oskar is obsessed with reading the contrasting material of Rasputin and Goethe.
"Granted: I'm an inmate in a mental institution."This opening line prepared me only a little to what was to come: a challenging, weird, unbelievable and extraordinary story. Oskar's drums and his drumming may still "haunt" me for some time after finishing his story. I am lost for more words here but one: recommended!
Funny, Brechtian Story of a Murderous Dwarf who is a Genius DrummerThis is a tough book to review.The story uses Brecht's concept of distancing to keep us from identifying with the characters.The tale takes place in Germany and Poland, before, during, and after World War II.The main character and narrator is Oskar Matzerath, a dwarf (and later on, a hunchbacked dwarf), who develops a precocious genius for drumming as a toddler.
The hunchback shows up later, after an illness when he is older.Oskar tells us that at his baptism in the local Catholic church he deliberately does not renounce Satan (which the adults present, including his putative father, Jan Bronski attribute to his "retardation).
دوستانِ گرانقدر،این داستانِ جذاب، از زبانِ پسر بچه ای آلمانی به نامِ <اسکار> روایت میشود که علاقهٔ شدیدی به طبل زدن دارد و از سه سالگی به بعد، کوتوله قد مانده است و از نظر جسمانی رشد نکرده است**************از داستان مادربزرگ و تولدِ مادر او که بگذریم.. به آنجا میرسیم که در داستان مشخص نیست که پدر واقعی این پسرک چه کسی میباشد، چراکه مادرش از طرفی با پسر عمهٔ خود یعنی یان برونسکی که لهستانی میباشد، رابطه دارد و از سوی دیگر با مردی به نامِ آلفرد ماتزارات ارتباط دارد.. امّا از آنجایی که مادر ا
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر،این داستانِ جذاب، از زبانِ پسر بچه ای آلمانی به نامِ <اسکار> روایت میشود که علاقهٔ شدیدی به طبل زدن دارد و از سه سالگی به بعد، کوتوله قد مانده است و از نظر جسمانی رشد نکرده است**************‎از داستان مادربزرگ و تولدِ مادر او که بگذریم..
حتی یکی از پزشکان شهر تصمیم میگیرد تا مقاله ای پزشکی در مورد این ناهنجاری حنجرهٔ اسکار بنویسد‎اسکار روز به روز از نظر سنی بزرگ میشود و حدوداً به دوازده سالگی میرسد و همچنان کوتوله مانده است و طبل را نیز به همراه دارد و مادرش نیز کماکان با پسرعمه اش رابطهٔ مخفیانه دارد و اسکار هم این را میداند...
Painful because what is presented as entertainment is actually crime.
Disturbing because what is responded by laughter should be responded by tears.
This is a world unaware of its crime, and in the aftermath of the atrocity unable to mourn.
There are a lot of brilliant use of symbolisms.
We must perform, we must run the show.
If we don’t, it’s the others that run us.
And they don’t do it with kid gloves...Take care young man.
Always take care to be sitting on the rostrum and never to be standing out in front of it."
The disabled man was already weakening, was about to stretch forth his hand and grant me happiness, when machine-gun fire entered the nursery and antitank shells exploded at the main entrance; Kobyella flung me into the corner with Jan Bronski, flung himself behind his gun and loaded for a second time while my eyes remained fixed on the tin drum.And here is how he deals with Kristallnacht, where Oskar is again searching for tin drums:Once upon a time there was a grocer who closed his shop one November day because something was going on in the city, took his son Oskar by the hand and travelled with the Number Five tram to Langgasser Gate, because the synagogue there was on fire, as were those in Zoppot and Langfuhr.
For quite some time Oskar doesn't speak and his means of communication are drumming (more on that later) and screaming in a way that makes glass burst.DanzigOskar is born in 1927 and growing up (or not growing up) in a suburb of the city of Danzig.
In any case it was it was the weirdest kind of déjà-lu I ever had.DüsseldorfTo avoid spoilers I have to skip a few years, many chapters, and the events of World War II, during which Oskar and his family stay in Danzig.

Era uma vez uma vez uma mulher chamada Agnes que amava Jan e casou com Alfred.
Nasceu Oskar que, ou era filho de Alfred, ou de Jan.Era uma vez um menino chamado Oskar que decidiu parar de crescer aos três anos e tocar tambor.
Era uma vez um menino chamado Kurt que, ou era filho de Alfred, ou de Oskar.Era uma vez...Era uma vez um escritor chamado Günter Grass que escreveu um livro simultaneamente fascinante e insuportável.
One crazy ride. Oskar is unlike any other character you will ever read about besides maybe Tyrion Lannister maybe. The book is a comic masterpiece, a fanciful rendering of Germany during the war and after. It is part vaudeville, part absurd, part insane and like nearly all great literature impossible to classify. The movie was also unbelievably great. If you want to read one book by this Nobel laureate, I would suggest starting here - you will have a hard time putting in down. I think that it would be a good companion read to Gravity's Rainbow by Pynchon.
“Se Apollo aspirava all’armonia e Dioniso all’ebbrezza e al caos, Oskar era un piccolo semidio che portava l’armonia nel caos e la ragione nell’ebbrezza”  Con grande piacere dichiaro terminata questa sfiancante lettura.
Perlomeno questo è successo a me...Una fatica lunga 590 pagine (con l’impressione di averne lette il doppio!) che non manca di episodi in cui il racconto si fa anche nauseante.
Ci sono passaggi veramente memorabili (personalmente ho apprezzato, in particolar modo il capitolo intitolato: “Fede, speranza e carità”) ma è, soprattutto, la complessità metaforica a renderlo un grande Romanzo.Oskar segue un percorso di genialità perversa che sembra riflettere la storia del popolo tedesco nei suoi successi così come nelle sue terribili tragedie.
Nací bajo bombillas, interrumpí deliberadamente el crecimiento a los tres años, recibí un tambor, rompí vidrio con la voz, olfateé vainilla, tosí en iglesias, nutrí a Lucía, observé hormigas, decidí crecer, enterré el tambor, huí a Occidente, perdí el Oriente, aprendí el oficio de marmolista, posé como modelo, volví al tambor e inspeccioné cemento, gané dinero y guardé un dedo, regalé el dedo y huí riendo; ascendí, fui detenido, condenado, internado, saldré absuelto; y hoy celebro mi trigésimo aniversario y me sigue asustando la Bruja Negra.
—Amén....Óscar Matzerath decide, una vez cumplidos los tres años de edad, dejar de crecer.
Tutto nasce da sotto le quattro gonne di nonna Koljaiczek, la Grande Madre, seduta nei campi di patate nella Casciubia, la regione a nord della Polonia, passata dal controllo tedesco all’indipendenza dopo la prima guerra mondiale ed individuata come “corridoio di Danzica”, e tutto sarebbe dovuto finire lì sotto, luogo di protezione e di creazione, se la storia avesse avuto un senso, una sua circolarità, se non fosse passata attraverso la piaga del nazismo, l’occupazione tedesca della libera città di Danzica, l’orrore dell’Europa in fiamme sotto le bombe, lo sterminio degli ebrei, i bunker costruiti dai tedeschi lungo le coste atlantiche della Francia, l’arrivo dei russi e la loro occupazione che si sostituisce a quella tedesca, la miseria e il degrado della Germania post bellica, straziata da un ipocrita senso di colpa, la creazione del muro, il capitalismo imperante dell’ovest, la guerra fredda e la cortina di ferro.
Funny I missed rating and reviewing this jewel. This is the lodestar, the mandrake root, the intrepid ooze making friends in the lukewarm pools of primeval poetry. This was the point of departure. A hallowed book I finished in a laundromat. I almost can't remember my reading life before wee Oskar. Eels, fizz, post offices, onions and Dusters have littered my imagination seemingly forever. I wanted to read the new translation and likely will someday. My memories of my own grandmother now smell like butter.
من أين نفهم غراس؟ فالقدرة على قراءة هذه الرواية ..و ليس القدرة على كتابتها هو ما يستحق جائزة نوبل فهي لم تكن هينة أبدًا نظرًا لمعايير مؤلفها الألماني غونتر غراس الذي فخّخ العمل بمعانٍ كبيرة و بأجزاء سحرية و مقومات ملعونة من المستحيل ألا تكره أحدها على الأقل، لعله فعلاً برهن عن عظمته بطريقته !
إن كان ثمة ألحان تجلب الحياة فطبل أوسكار إحداها، أوسكار واظب على التطبيل رغم قراره بإيقاف نموه و تطوره اللغويّ مستعيضًا بقواه الفطرية على قراءة الأفكار وتحطيم الزجاج تعبيرًا عن الاعتراض، هذه المواظبة على التطبيل جاءت لأنه يمتلك النغمة النشاز التي تربك كل من يعتلي المنصة في زمن الزومبي !
"What more shall I say: born under light bulbs, deliberately stopped growing at age of three, given drum, sang glass to pieces, smelled vanilla, coughed in churches, observed ants, decided to grow, buried drum, emigrated to the West, lost the East, learned stonecutter's trade, worked as model, started drumming again, visited concrete, made money, kept finger, gave finger away, fled laughing, rode up escalator, arrested, convicted, sent to mental hospital, soon to be acquitted, celebrating this day my thirtieth birthday and still afraid of the Black Witch."Oskar is a little monster.
He believe in his drum, in Goethe, in Rasputin and in Maria.
أوسكار الذي تلقى طبله الاول ويتوقف نموه في نفس اليوم.٩٤ سم طوله وإجابته الوحيدة كانت بطلبه والدفاع عن نفسه بصوته الخارق كاسر الزجاج .الرواية بالاضافة الى انها طويلة وأسلوب السرد المتبع في هذه الرواية فهي مليئة بالتفاصيل والتفاصيل الدقيقة جدا.أوسكار الذي أهل أمه بولنديين وأهل ابيه ألمان.
يتابع حياة طفولته يراقب ويسرد ويعلن تمرده عن طريق طبله واستغلال صوته بالدفاع عن نفسه واستغلاله بامور اخرى أيضا.يساهم أوسكار بموت عائلته جميعها حتى موت والده يقوم برمي الطبل والنمو .ويهاجر مع زوجة ابيه الى ألمانيا وتبدأ قصة أوسكار بطول ١٢١ سم ووجود حدبه على ظهره بعد النمو .
Gunter Grass is the only winner of the Nobel Prize able to speak Kaszub a weird Slavic language still spoken in the area of Danzig.
Perhaps realizing that he spoke a language that belonged to the world of myth and magic but not to his own century, Grass decided to convert his experiences into a twentieth century fairy tale.The hero Little Oskar is a boy born in the Free City of Danzig, a state that was created by the 1919 Treaty of Paris and liquidated by the Germans in September 1939.
Little Oskar grows up in a German household with relatives in both the Kaszub and Polish camps.
In this book, seen through the eyes of its diminutive hero, it becomes downright surreal.
Though the tone may be fantastic, Grass does a better job of capturing life under Nazi rule than anything else I have ever read.
That is one of the hallmarks of a great book.
Even though I am the Liz Taylor of book reviewers, (I fall in love with and feel I have to marry {give five stars to} every man {book} I meet {read}), this is the very rare book to which I would beg to give six stars.
Hatte die filmische Umsetzung mich so sehr geprägt, dass ich nach den Abspann gar nicht an weiteren abstrusen Geschichten über Oskar als Model, Steinmetz oder Jazzmusiker interessiert war?Das Besondere an diesem Buch ist für mich Stil und Sprache, die Handlung tritt fast in den Hintergrund bei der Beurteilung.
Da ist diese freche, zynische Stimme Oskars, der die Welt sich macht, wie sie ihm gefällt (obwohl er beim Geschlechtsakt seines Vaters mit Maria auf ihm sitzt und so das Unglück der Schwangerschaft herbeiführt, ist er der Auffassung, dass dann gezeugte Kurt nicht sein Bruder, sondern sein Sohn ist).
