https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92365.Mysterious_Skin
There is some compelling referential imagery, as in when Brian is attempting to recover his lost time as a late teenager and is watching a scene from the Exorcist in which Regan’s stomach displays the words “Help me.” Second hand it may be, and perhaps a bit forced, but I thought it was ok here.
It is meant to evince the damage done by Neil and Coach to the young boys they used, including Brian.
Brian does, Neil does.
"I want to dream about something else for a change."I loved the 2004 film of Mysterious Skin (directed by Gregg Araki) more than I do the original novel.
If you care about this sort of thing at all, Bill Sage is good in Hal Hartley's Simple Men), like it was too disturbing that nine year old Neil was already a homosexual (nine is not too young to have sexual feelings), and that the Coach was too attractive to Neil and to his single mother.
At times this feels too needy, the Wendy, the alluring Neil.Hell, I remember thinking that the movie almost tried too hard and that I wouldn't change a thing.
The needs of our survival make us, unconsciously or not, choose what to forget, what to remember, how to remember, when to remember. Same action, different perspectives, different truths. It’s part of the human condition how we experience the world so differently from each other. Nothing is black and nothing is white.Uncomfortable read, not a book I enjoyed reading, the long term will tell me if I took anything from it. I do think that Heim's treatment of the subject matter, the uncomfortableness,the uncertainty, the obfuscation are right on the spot.
This book was so emotionally draining, the topic upsetting, the characters superbly portrayed, the story slow, but absolutely riveting, making it hard to look away from the pages.
I don't know how to write a review that can do this book the justice it deserves.
I still can't comprehend how his writing can be so fantastic when the topic was so horrifying.
One of the boys has grown into a promiscuous teenager who prostitutes himself, the other is an emotionally and socially inhibited young man, who is obsessed with aliens, his memories of what happened to him distorted.
Brian closed his eyes, blood trailing down his cheek and matting his hair. I felt it, damp and warm, seeping through my pant leg. It was Brian's blood, and for some reason I knew it was pure. No other man I'd held in my arms---and now, not even I---had blood this pure. His eyes reopened, and he looked up at me. "Tell me, Neil," he said. "Tell me more."
I'm split on my opinion of this story, as tends to happen when I three-star a book.
This despite the fact that the story really revolves around two characters, Neil McCormick and Brian Lackey.
Overall, it's was a mildly intriguing read, but there's a movie adaptation with Joseph Gordon-Levitt that I've been told is amazing, and that might have been a better option for once.
It was well done and cut out a lot of the sluggish parts of the story, while still following the book very closely.
However, as to be expected, the book did a much better job conveying the full emotion of the characters and their experiences.
You are given an account from when the boys are 8 right through to 19.At the beginning of the story you get Brian's point of view, a confused eight-year-old who doesn't know what has happened to him after he is found in a cupboard at his home, scared and with a bleeding nose.
But gradually, when pieces start falling together he starts realising that there is a much more logical explanation, although horrifying and life shattering.Neil knows what has happened to him, he's forgotten nothing, but sees it as good, the mind of a young boy not understanding that what was done was anything but loving.
I wish I'd read this before seeing Gregg Araki's film - perhaps I would have appreciated its nuances more, but I already knew the travels, the revelations, the small, stinging heartbreaks. It's a hard and beautiful book, and it may just be one of the most faithful book-to-film adaptations I've ever seen. Heim's metaphors are unsullied with pretension: simple, precise, and evocative. He doesn't insult the reader with "deep" and "meaningful" character insights, instead allowing Brian and Neil to fumble their way through the looking glass and to each other, where answers lead to more questions. Just like life.
That was one of the more creepy and disturbing reading moments of my life that's for certain, but it's done so well, the alternating first person narratives providing not just different perspectives as a release but also serving to make the personal revelations that the two major characters experience all the more powerful.There's a whole bunch of the mundane and everday about the lives of the narrators that ordinarily I would love but as I already knew the major plot beats from the film (which it turns out was a pared down and to the point adaptation that still manages to keep the same atmosphere and emotional arc of the source material) I found myself often getting impatient over rather than simply enjoying the journey Heim was taking me on.
A little too hip and trendy for its own good.
I just don't buy that a 13 year old is this brooding and jaded.
You don't need drugs and Joy Division until your at least 14.
Disclaimer: Some of the writing here is pretty tight in places, and I liked the format with different characters revealing different parts of the story...
The plot was even pretty provocative and dramatic...
I think it was mainly that I couldn't relate to, believe in or care for the lead character's personality, predicament or attitude toward his situation.
I think I noticed the Froot Loops on the spine.
I think it's from a song, but don't quote me on that.
The song itself may be quoted in the book.
This novel has been stuck in my head ever since I read it, which I started doing the moment I pulled it from the shelf.What Scott Heim managed to do with this novel was capture the dark side of the mood conveyed in those Saturday morning commercials.
With tremendous understanding of the abused, Heim shows us people obsessed with UFOs, fragile people.
If this sort of thing were a Gregg Araki movie, I'd think it were outright exploitation -- hollow shock value applied to pedaphilia.I don't exactly like the way the book is written either with each character supposedly telling the story one chapter at a time.
The main difference in the two main characters is obvious, but for such a big difference the voices of their narration doesn't seem all that different.What I like about this book is the emotional reaction, the sympathy for the characters I feel that goes way beyond sympathy for just about any other literary characters ever.
Maybe that emotional reaction could not have been achieved without first-person I-statement narration.
It’s been years since I first read Mysterious Skin, yet it remains the best example of two contrasting characters, two boys (and, eventually, men) who act as each other’s foil and become vital to each other’s characterizations and growth.Brian and Neil are incredible, to me.
We visit Neil, then Brian, then secondary characters whose importance I long debated.
What I grew to understand upon rereading the novel was that Heim changes point-of-view with great, well-thought ambition.
Relationships intertwine, and secondary characters prove significance.The affection and devotion Neil felt for his coach surpasses the standard state of trauma in such a brutal situation.
That was heart-breaking and bleak.But good. It was good, too. This kind of gave me the experience I wanted from The Perks of Being a Wallflower.Sometimes the writing was a teensy bit awkward and some parts were slow, but ultimately this book was really effective. There's no skimping on horrifying details, so prepare yourself.(I read the version with the cereal and spoons on the cover. Once I realized it came directly from a scene in the book, the image became grossly terrifying.)
And by that, I mean that there are explicit descriptions of the sexual abuse of eight year old boys, there is an explicit scene of a man getting raped, and there is an incident of horrific bullying against a special needs child featuring the boy being taken sexual advantage of.
Whether it was a conscious decision or not, it fit the plot, mirroring the character's growth - Neil grew up too fast, too soon, and Brian couldn't move on from his past and it dragged with him until he finally sorted things through.
But Hollywood would never make a movie about us."I loved this book, really.
I felt awful for both boys - the fact that they weren't angels at all through no fault of their own.
I kind of figured all the stuff Neil had felt towards the Coach (the 'it was love' sort of stuff that he'd kept up throughout his life) fell to pieces when he saw what it had done to Brian.
Like he'd realized what it had been all along.It's not a book people can easily read.
If you want some sort of 'light' novel then avoid this book at all costs.
Two boys, Neil and Brian, are both abused by a manipulative softball coach when they're 8 years old, and each boy deals with it in VASTLY different ways.
Brian has an obsessive friendship with a woman who is convinced she is an alien abductee, and Neil has an obsessive and codependent friendship with a girl named Wendy.
I really liked Eric, and felt bad for his unrequited love for Neil.
I felt bad for ALL the characters.
Except the softball coach who abused the boys.
Be warned, the passages from Neil's viewpoint are blunt and graphic at times.
Brian Lackey and Neil McCormick are two very different human beings.
Neil is the only one who can help him.Amazing.There's something very special about this book, and I think it has something to do with the rythmic and lovely writing by Scott Heim and the character Neil McCormick.
People around him look up to him, but the one person who really knows him, Wendy, knows enough to realize that there's no point in crushing on Neil McCormick.
The man who took his virginity at the age of 9.The book tells a tale of two people, but it's told from several people's point of view.
The fragile territory is child molestation by a Little League coach with the aftermath as told by two different boys: Brian, who grows up somewhat asexual obsessed with UFOs and aliens, and Neil, a promiscuous teen hustler.
It's just that there are parts that will trouble many, like the fact that Neil the Hustler had homosexual urges prior to his molestation, so it's implied somewhat that he "wanted it".
The fact that it's told in such a drop dead serious and mainpulative fashion - with Christmas carolers singing in the background, even!
I wish I'd read the novel first, but, I have to say that I agree with the screenwriter who adapted Mysterious Skin to its movie version that Eric Preston should be Mexican-American.
Skin imagery is a kind of plot-moving or foreshadowing angle that I don't recall much in the novels I read.The two main characters seem to evaporate after the end of the story, since their experiences and trajectories are so colored by the sexual abuse they endured-- maybe that's why I felt so strongly about Eric's character.
[4,5/5*]I really loved this novel and I think the main reason for that is because, despite its dark and disturbing subject, it's not trashy.
It's all very matter-of-fact yet sensitive, and if it's shocking at times, it's only because, again, the subject is so disturbing (I mean, this is a novel about children who've been raped!)Now, I'm gonna be honest, it took me a while to really get into the novel and I had a hard time finding it in my heart to like one of the main characters at first.
DNF @25%Couldn't get through this. The book goes from boring YA style story-telling to some extremely graphic sex scenes with school age children. Not my thing. Just couldn't stay with it.
The story features various points of views all from the different characters as they grow up in Little River or Hutchinson Kansas, but mainly focuses on the lives of Brian Lackey and Neil McCormick, both of who had suffered terrible trauma during childhood and how they deal with and then eventually come to terms with what had happened to them.Mysterious Skin is probably better known for its movie starring Joseph Gordon Levitt.
The adults in the story struggle to raise their children while their own personal lives come crashing down like a vase into a thousand tiny pieces.
("Fucking's perpetually on your mind anyway, so you might as well get paid for it," a friend tells him matter-of-factly.)Heim captures the atmosphere of 1980s Kansas perfectly: the crackle of country music on AM radio; kids running through sprinklers on hot summer days; evenings spent at the local drive-in; the smell of honeysuckle and highway tar carried by the breeze.
This depiction of Kansas as a place where nothing ever happens is, of course, deliberate: Heim's point is that even the most mundane reality isn't immune to sudden explosions of violence.
In fact, Heim seems to take one of Blanche DuBois's most famous lines ("I don't want realism.
We are supposed to feel uncomfortable but one of the ways that Heim makes us uncomfortable is through his exploration of Neil's own willingness, his already awakening sexual identity.
What is missing from the film is the extent to which knowledge of Brian drives Neil's withdrawal from the hustler lifestyle, so it would good to finally get a sense of that through the original text.As I have said, this is not an easy read but it is a well-crafted and often blackly humourous novel that should be applauded for attempting (and succeeding, in my view) to explore some difficult territory.
Tra tutti i ragazzi della squadra, lui aveva scelto me.
Un grande romanzo difficile che pur avendo alle spalle una chiara vicenda autobiografica si traduce in una storia amara sulla linea sottile tra amore e perversione.
C'è spazio persino per uno sguardo sull'ufologia (qui presentata come rielaborazione inconscia dell'abuso sessuale), sguardo proprio di un occhio clinico sulla società statunitense contemporanea, sulle sue ossessioni e sulle sue angosce.Non si dovrebbe amare una storia del genere, una delle tante tristi storie di cronaca che accadano quotidianiamente, eppure è così.
Non si può fare a meno di amare questo romanzo.
Initially I was going to throw it down in disgust as I wasn't quite sure what I was reading at first.
However, I'm glad I gave it more reading time as it didn't go where I thought it was going ie, down the titillating, child porn, abuse route.
I can't help believe that the author must be writing from experience or he has done some rather in depth research as it is all too realistic IMHO.
well all I'll say is I had 'a friend', no honestly, who had a 'loosely' similar experience so I really do 'get' this.
Just have to read it to see if you do too.
My friend?
On the way home, we saw fires on the horizon, farmers burning skeletal stalks of corn after harvest. The orange glow at the sky’s edge made the world seem ready to crack open, and I watched until the fire fizzled to nothing more than a sparkle in the distance. Not suited you if you're bothered about the awful truth that is out there roaming the streets, the churches, the schools. It will disturb and leave a mark hidden somewhere. It's like blood which isn't yours spilling all over your hands. T
It's like blood which isn't yours spilling all over your hands.
The most beautiful prose that reads like poetry that makes up for the wounds it will create.
This is the one you'll go for if you're looking for descriptions which tap you on the head and feel like fingers going over your skin in circles.
Like a million little stars tenderly caressing your insides.
Like a light that won't stop radiating.
It's not trying to make you feel okay.
It is chocking you to death, it's the hands around your throat.
Just like Neil did.
A book that describes a sex seen between an adult man and an eight year old boy takes a lot of risks, and a writer to go there takes a lot of balls.As I said, at first I really enjoyed the book, but at some point after the characters entered adolescence in the storyline I found that the writing became sloppy and the narrative became slightly meandering.
I didn't not enjoy it, but I found it unfortunate that the exciting and literally gut-wrenching subject matter lost some of its luster when the writing began to become mediocre and sloppy.That's not to say that an interested reader should not read the book.
I was absolutely absorbed in this book. It seemed to devour me, blurting into each and every one of my thoughts even after I had finished it, and when people ask me what my favourite read of 2015 is, I am almost certain this will be my favourite book of the year. The subject matter has potential to be very triggering, tackling subject matters that cause us to shy away and bend our heads, but if you feel you can handle that, I urge you to pick this up. It's brilliant, moving, funny, and gorgeously written.
