https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292278.Four_Major_Plays_Vol_1
Social status, deep secrets and what people think about themselves and others are at the heart of these four celebrated plays.
Rather than describe the plays in this volume, I’d rather sum them up with a quote taken from each:A Doll House: “But there’s no one who gives up honor for love.”The Wild Duck: “There are people in this world who plunge to the bottom when they’ve hardly been winged, and they never come up again.”Hedda Gabler: “People don’t do such things!”The Master Builder: “What if he slipped and fell—he, the master builder himself!”
Hedda Gabler is a story about an unhappy woman, much like A Doll's House, but with an ending like The Wild Duck. That may be why it was in this collection, seeing as how it goes so well with those two.Master Builder is a story of pain. It was rather like a train wreak waiting to happen, you see it coming and yet can do nothing to stop it.
Doll's House was great. Master Builder was good. Hedda Gabler disturbing and Wild Duck was not great.
I loved A Doll's House and Hedda Gabbler. You can see his influance on O' Neill, Miller and Tennessee Willams.
It was my first time reading Ibsen and really enjoyed it the power of the words is still palpable and some of the plot is straight up shocking. Very excellent play-write and one I’m glad I finally got around to reading.
There is a LOT of dialogue but each play comes with deep meaning and layers of complexity covered by a simple story.
A Dolls House - 4/5Wild Duck - 3/5Hedda Gabler - 4/5The Master Builder - 5/5
So my more exacting star reviews are:A Doll's House - 3 starsThe Wild Duck - 3 starsHedda Gabler - 4 starsThe Master Builder - 2.5 starsThings I liked Strong, complex female characters across the board: I did a (very) little research after finishing the plays, and some people are ready to claim Hedda Gabler as one of the most challenging stage roles for an actor.
When two characters form her past reappear Mrs. Linde and Krogstad who both vie for a position within the Helmer's life, Nora is forced to become a new person in an attempt to keep her life as it is, while it spirals out of control.The Wild Duck follows the story of the Ekdal family, seemingly happy and satisfied with life.
By seducing Kaja, Ragnar Brovik's betrothed Solness plans for the future as he prepares to move into a new home with his wife Aline, built where her family home once stood.
Her bravery is simply bucking the system, as it were, going against the grain of what is expected of her, but it’s the same thing as if any person has been working in various jobs or living with particular parents or as in this case an overbearing husband.
One recognizes in Nora a great fortitude as well as a need to become a person on her own terms.
I see this play as Ibsen asking the same question of himself.theWild Duck is a special play for anyone from a dysfunctional family.
I believe it is most applicable to the grads of today, grad year '11, '12, '13, and now '14 are graduating with THOUSANDS upon THOUSANDS of loans, and inadvertently find themselves in chaotic situations of taking up various odd gigs and jobs in an effort to eliminate what they've all been taught to fear, and taught to pursue, just like Nora!
Anyways.Personally, I would have enjoyed this story particularly more if Nora was perhaps of an ethnic "minority".
It is hard to amaze me with a worn-out concept like this one, especially since it was so frustrating to accept Nora's unquestioning compliance at first!
Moralist Gregers Werle wanders back into the Ekdal family bearing destructive but liberating truth about the Ekdals’ shaky marriage.
All would be well in Norway, if her old lover Eilert Lovborg didn’t come back to town, looking great, and bearing the manuscript for what might just be the next Norwegian Pulitzer.
How can Hedda show Lovborg that he’s still just as messed up as she?
Every hot young lady in town just can’t help falling in love with the old master, who‘s really an enormous asshole.
And the “he’s going to fall off the tower!

I’ve only read two of these plays: Hedda Gabler as a student and A Doll House multiple times as a teacher.
By many accounts, Hedda’s story is less interesting to read than Nora’s, but after you’ve mimed her final scene in drama class to great acclaim from your teacher, it’s hard to forget Hedda.Nora, in contrast, is not a tragic heroine.
Torvald has some of the most cringe-worthy lines of all time, from start (“Is that my little lark?”) to finish (“Before all else, you are a wife and mother”).
An enjoyable play to stage and read aloud in the classroom.
As the play evolves, Hedda's desire for a life bigger than her own spirals into tragedy.I've read this before and I've always loved what a bitch Hedda is.
I love that she let's slip her little irritations, her real opinions about the smallness of life around her.
Hedda's husband Tesman is so oblivious, so enamoured of life in a superficial way, that he cannot comprehend the enormous complexity of his new wife's inner struggles.
Hedda's old love, Lovborg, is a disaster waiting to happen.
I didn't truly understand all Hedda's motivations until I saw a BBC version of the play with Ingrid Bergman as Hedda.
I love this play.
And then arrives a disruptive element/character, who is usually a bit weird.
women empowerment ftw).
The second one is very interesting because the 'disruptive character' is an ass who has very clear ideas on what's right and what's wrong, and does not, for a second, think on the consequences of doing things that he supposes are universally good regardless of anything.
The third and fourth plays felt a bit weirdish, or maybe it's that I didn't like the main characters (Hedda and Hilda).
Anyway, it's been interesting to read Ibsen for the first time!I guess this would be a ....
I haven't read Ibsen since high school, but I just loved him back then and I have 6 books of plays on my shelves, so I have decided to pull all my books and re-read 1 play each night, this month.
I truly feel, one can relate to the subject matter and themes of Ibsen’s plays, in this modern time, despite their having been written over 130 years ago.
Each play can easily be read in a night and I am holding onto all 6 books as I’m sure I will want to pick them up and read all the plays again.
All of the plays have thematic elements that are similar to one another, most notably that of females threatening established patriarchy, and they stand as a good introduction to Ibsen.
I must also say that the Fjelde translations are, seemingly, excellent.**A Doll House – 3 stars – Very feminist ending, which itself is surprising and a bit frightening from a male perspective.
She is cunning, remorseless, and completely sure of her power over the patriarchy.
Interesting, and I'm sure one could get a lot from it if you took the time to study it, but not as compelling as the other plays.
Ibsen is a genius.
A wild, brooding, disruptive genius.
If he had not been a playwright, he should have been a philosopher or a prophet.These four plays--rightfully among his most well-known--capture his attention to detail, his insights into human emotion, and his terrifying ability to strip away pretence and compel uncomfortable introspection about the lies, visions, and heights that we construct.
In a way, Ibsen is the perfect companion to Kierkegaard, who challenged the notion that constructing an objective understanding of others is possible.
Ibsen almost rises to this challenge, revealing innermost thoughts through brilliant dialogue, imagery, and excellent stage directions.
"A Doll's House": Nora is a wonderful, playful, distressed creature and I adore her.
I had no idea what to expect from this piece; I had heard of Ibsen's "A Doll's House" of course, but I didn't know the plotline at all.
A short piece, but brimming."The Wild Duck": I didn't like Gregers, the meddling idiot.
But I guess it means something that Ibsen was able to write a character that draws a response.
"Hedda Gabler": I...did not understand this play.
Hedda is a sort of creepy, cold...creature.
But I thought Ibsen would've made more of the meaning of it.
Unhappy marriages, ill-advised scheming, unfulfilled expectations, and female characters well ahead of their (and Ibsen's) time drive all four of these plays.
The Master Builder treats the same themes but injects an extra dose of insanity into its characters and the play as a whole (not in a good way) and The Wild Duck is clever but ultimately too over-the-top and depressing (or, more accurately, a different and less effective kind of depressing than the other three).
Still, I'm very glad I read all four plays together; they interconnect without being redundant, and each is an intriguing read.
The four plays in this book all deal with marital strife.
This is a common theme of Ibsen's work so that is to be expected.My favourite of the four plays is "Enemy of the People," a play about Dr. Stockmann trying to do what he thinks is good for the people set against his brother, Mayor Stockmann, who is trying to do what he thinks is good for the people.
It's a story driven by hidden agendas where even if someone is right, the audience doesn't particularly care for them because of their personality flaws.
All of the characters, except for the ship's captain Horster, are flawed and to some degree or another unlikable.
However, I'm a fan of unlikable characters so I really enjoyed this play.
Hedda Gabler  : Saw this amazing production http://chicagotheaterbeat.com/2014/01... last night (2/6/14) in Glencoe (yes, Glencoe). Show runs into early April '14.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to anyone in Chicagoland. A Doll House : To discover Ibsen when you are 50 is rather amazing. Certainly to discover him at any age must be amazing. I will not bore you with my schoolgirlish glee but instead adopt the stern demeanor of Lovborg and say that anyone who considers herself to be literate -- to be immersed
Hedda Gabler
: Saw this amazing production http://chicagotheaterbeat.com/2014/01...
last night (2/6/14) in Glencoe (yes, Glencoe).
Show runs into early April '14.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to anyone in Chicagoland.
: To discover Ibsen when you are 50 is rather amazing.
Certainly to discover him at any age must be amazing.
I will not bore you with my schoolgirlish glee but instead adopt the stern demeanor of Lovborg and say that anyone who considers herself to be literate -- to be immersed in literature -- must have read these plays.
If you haven't read them and you pretend to know literature, you are deceiving yourself.But it's a Free Country.
I only read the first play in this book, A DollHouse, but i really like how at the end, nora takes matters into her own hands.
I also really found intresting Nora's manner of reaction to when Torvald finds out about the debt and when the debt is recalled.
So she decides to take off the metaphorical shades she's had on and see her situation for what it is.
She also decides to go away to study more, and gain an education proving that she chooses not to be opressed by what her husband thinks she should do.
I haven't read many plays except what we read in HS English class, and I am pretty sure I hated everything we ever read then!
But after reading Oscar Wilde's The Importance of Being Earnest for bookgroup this month I decided to try the Ibsen I've had om my shelf...I started with Hedda Gabler, since it seemed the one I've heard of the most.
I am amazed at how much information is portrayed in a play.
Hedda was not a happy read, but it was an easy one, and very interesting!
The problem with a collection of plays is that the rating for each may be vastly different.
The standout for me here was A Doll's House, which is even better than I had remembered.
But the other three plays just didn't work for me; they all seemed to center around characters who were unhappy because of their own choices and lack of daring, who decide to ruin the lives of everyone around them to make themselves feel better, culminating in a suicide to try and generate some audience sympathy.
It was like watching a child pull the wings off of insects.
Ibsen is another writer I randomly picked up in college and have liked ever since. Amazon people recommend the McFarlane/Arup translation as the best, which has Ghosts rather than The Wild Duck. I'm not sure I read Master Builder, and I'll have to read Ghosts, but the other three made a lasting impression. Ibsen's not light, but he's easy to read and straightforward. Proto-feminism written by a guy? - I guess it's something like that and more.
Classic, profound, ground-breaking for their time and bearing crucial messages for all time. Superb realizations of human dilemmas. A philosophy of compassion and a message that the unexamined life can have tragic consequences -The Wild Duck - tragedy - catharsis - A young, pure life is lost because of tragic flaws in other persons . . . There is contrast between untried idealism and blundering hubris - A supremely wise and compelling collection of plays.
I wanted to reread A Doll House and definitely found it more compelling now than I did back in high school. Ibsen's plays generally follow the same sort of theme, playing with public perception vs. private turmoil which can get a bit exhausting if you read them all at once. I have to say that out of these four, I liked Hedda Gabler the most--I feel like the character relationships were much more fleshed out than any of the others.
آثار نمایشی هنریک ایبسن مانند زندگی اش پر از فراز و نشیب اند. برخی منتقدان او را به راستی ستوده اند و برخی هرگز آثارش را نپسندیدند. ایبسن به معنایی که دکتر امیر حسین آریانپور در کتاب "ایبسن آشوب گرای" نوشته، چه در زندگی و چه در آثارش یک آنارشیست جلوه می کند. با وجودی که گفته اند از شکسپیر به این سو دوران تراژدی بسر آمده، برخی از منتقدان بر این اعتقاداند که ایبسن تنها نمایش نامه نویسی ست که برخی از آثارش مانند اشباح و هداگابلر به تراژدی به معنای ارسطویی و شکسپیری آن نزدیک است.
