https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350693.Tender_Triumph

I've always enjoyed reading Judith McNaught's romances, but it's fair to say Tender Triumph is not one of the better ones.
Ramon was to sexist and chauvinistic to be truly likable and Katie's views tread to close to being racist and elitist for my liking.
To make matters worse the whole romance happened far too quickly.
Despite my problems with some aspects of this book there was still some hints of the things I like about McNaught's book.
Katie might have been naive and idiotic at times, but she was likable enough for all that and her character did have an interesting backstory.
This was a train wreck! I knew from the 1st chapter that I will hate it, but it was a McNaught book. I was sure my initial opinion will change. It didn't.
Yawn. I gave this a good 75 pages but couldn't find the romance or frankly, anything else. This book is basically about a racist and a sexist who meet in a bar. He then proceeds to lie (or at least hide the truth) from her and order her around while she has a random desire to tear his shirt off. I'd expect this from Harlequin, not Judith McNaught.
This was not a terrible book, but it wasn't one of those books that makes me squeal with happiness.I loved Katie's backstory.
Why couldn't they have had a happy life in the cottage?
It kind of brought out my inner qualms about romances.
I'd love to find a romance book with normal people, who don't live in a mansion, who don't have some fantastic job, but who fall in love anyway.In my opinion, the book would have been better if Ramon had never made his fortune again, and they'd just lived in the cottage, and they worked together in Puerto Rico.
Should have just borrowed it instead of buying.It's told mostly from Katie's (the heroine) point of view, and seeing it from her point of view doesn't make her at all likeable, it makes her annoying.
And having an annoying girl for the heroine, you can't enjoy the story that much.Ramon, the hero, is too persuasive.
They met for a few days and he goes head over heels in love with her?
I don't know just what is it in Katie that can make anyone love her upon meeting for a few days.
I've read at least 5 of McNaught's books, and this is definitely the worst.
Although not her first novel written, according to Wiki, Tender Triumph is her first one published.
A pioneer in the romance novel industry, McNaught has a way of tearing your heart out with big misunderstandings, sweet, smart, likable heroines who fall for broody billionaire, alpha to the point of jerky heroes.
The big misunderstanding is not so big as the heroine already knows something’s up by the time all is out in the open.
It’s the sort of book that makes my blood pressure get ridiculously high where I feel the blood pumping in that vein above my head and… I end up looking like Toht on Indiana Jones when his face melted into liquid goo.I still remember my rants about Katie and Ramon quite well.
Ramon’s backwards views that Katie should make him dinner and give up her job, were suppose to be sweet.They weren’t sweet though, they were fucked up.As was the marriage proposal that appears randomly after the characters barely know each other and the immediate if you marry me you move to Puerto Rico with me woman bits as well.Seriously.It’s not like I can even sympathize that much with Katie.
No sé muy bien qué pensar de este libro.. no tiene ni pies ni cabeza, la trama quiere correr sin haber aprendido a andar, los personajes tienen unas salidas un tanto incomprensibles.. y a pesar de todo me ha entretenido y me lo he leído en pocos días.. pero sin duda alguna, no es lo mejor de esta autora ni de lejos.
Tender Triumph Ramon Galverra and Katherine Katie Connelly3.5/5 StarsTender Triumph is a stand alone book by Judith McNaught. Favorite Quotes  "Would you like to dance?"  -Katie "When I dance I like to hold a woman in my arms. Besides, I would have to wait in line for the privilege of dancing with you."  -Ramon "You are beautiful."  -Katie "Men are not beautiful."  -Ramon "You are. The way oceans and mountains are beautiful."  -Katie "Don't!"  -Ramon "You're beautiful and you're strong. But you
Ramon Galverra and Katherine Katie Connelly3.5/5 StarsTender Triumph is a stand alone book by Judith McNaught.
I think that you have the bluest eyes I have ever seen, and I like the way they sparkle when you are happy, or darken with desire when you are in my arms.
And I like the way you look in those pants you are wearing.
"I am the man who wants to take you away from everything you know, and people who love you.
I do not know which way you want it."
I amazed myself that I manage to finish this whole book in less than a day, especially considering that I don't even like the story that much.
Actually, it's not the story that I have troubled with.
It was the characters.
I couldn't relate to either the hero and the heroine.
They're not likable; at times there were judgmental and whiny - two characteristics that I never thought I would associate with JM's work.
I do think that the JM should stick with historical romance.
She wrote it brilliantly and the love and triumph of the characters are much more believable.
I expected to like this book a lot more, but I didn't.I don't believe that someone can fall in love in only 48 hours and to decide to get married.
And about Ramon not allowing Katie to help him with the money, without explaining his reasons.
And of course in the end of the book when he explained his reasons for everything I understood but it was in the last 2 pages.
I just didn't like it as much as the other book by Judith McNaught and maybe I had too big expectations.
Quite true!  "Life can be so good if you let it, Katherine. But you must trade with life. You give something and you get something, then you give something of yourself again and you receive something again. Life goes bad when people try to take from it without giving. Then they came away empty-handed, and they grab harder and more often, growing more disappointed and disllusioned each time."
Ramon is such a gentleman!!! He cherishes Katie!
i am totally new to Judith writing, the cover totally pulled me in. great style. romance. love these characters. well written, pulls ya in. set in nineteenth century Great Britain. I look forward to reading more from Judith soon enough. such a new fan.
There are a lot of annoying things: 1) Ramon is a macho: woman-do-as-I-say-and-be-happy-with-what-I-provide-because-of-my-love type 2) Katie trying to make Ramon jealous by dancing and flirting with other people.
I did not buy why Katie was so special4) Acceptance of above marriage proposal, which means Katie agrees to quit her job, move to Puerto Rico and live on a farm with Ramon.
(hide spoiler)]If you can get past that, the story got better once they get to Puerto Rico.
Both Katie and Ramon's insecurities emerge.
Ramon's fear that what he will not be enough for Katie gives him more depth.
Despite other demanding actions on his business, he ventured into getting married within weeks and none of the things could impress the readers except his physique, background.
His action to conquer the girl, even the 15th century heroes of McNaught did not attempt.Katie on the other hand too much attracted to him with confused feeling.
When true love makes sacrifices/compromises unsaid, this demand/command way of Ramon and Katie's too much physical attraction towards him spoils the characters.Ramon’s angry words on Katie such as ‘eager body and empty heart’, ‘I will make your first husband seem like a saint’ are all highly regrettable words on the part of him.
Granted, this book was written in the 80s, but it was still kind of annoying to read that a women shouldn't work (even if she wants to) and her job is pretty much to take of her man's needs and push out babies.A couple other things that bothered me was how Ramon proposed after 3 or 4 days of meeting Kate, and expected her to drop everything to move to Puerto Rico with him.
I was sitting there like, "what the heck happened?"At any rate, I still really love McNaught's books, so I'll be reading more of them.
Ramon has gone from CEO to poor farmer and Katie was abused by her ex-husband.
I felt like they need more time get to know each other before they got married.
Ramon was even faster - he asked Katie to marry him and it would mean leaving everything behind - her job, her rich parents, etc.
to go with him to Puerto Rico to live a farmer's life.
Katie hesitated before she decided to go to Puerto Rico.
She is so unsure of herself that I felt like she shouldn't have gone with Ramon to Puerto Rico know full well she might not be able to adapt to his life.
Kitap benim o kadar da çok beklentilerimi karşılamasada Ramon karakteri birbaşka benim ♥ Queridası o
This is a sweet story of of an Irish beauty met a man from Puerta Rica who had just lost all his wealth thanks to his father and was planning to move back to his roots and farm the property where he grew up.
Ramon falls instantly in love with Katie and in a matter of weeks spirits her off to Puerta Rica with the intention of marrying her but Katie is still not convinced because she had been married before in an abusive relationship and didn't want to have the same thing happen again.
I enjoy the setting in this story.
Both Katie and Ramon are great characters, and they have a great story.Somehow, this story was told all wrong.
There are only a few glimpses into Ramon's point of view, but his motivation seems shallow and relies heavily on the reader knowing lots of "macho" men.
A page, and everything is okay again.There are so many places in this story where one of them could have said something to explain away the miscommunications, but they never did.
It was more annoying than enjoyable.This book is okay, but it doesn't achieve its potential.
ความรูสึกเวลาอานเลมเลก ๆ ของ จูดิธนันคือ ความไมเขาใจในอารมณของตัวละครทุกอยางดูงง ๆ หลง ๆ หลวม ๆ ไปหมดพระเอก เกือบดีละ .. แตเปนจอมเผดจการมาก ๆ แถมยังปิดบังความจริงอะไรมากมาย จนไมเขาใจวาทำสิงเหลานีลงไปทำไม .. แตรักนางเอกมาก ๆ นางเอก ตังแงเยอะไปหนอย มีปมกับการแตงงานครังแรก แตอาน ๆ แลว ไมไดรูสึกวามันหนักหนาอะไรเทาไหร .. แตกเปนเรืองเปนราวขึนมาไดไมคอยประทับใจเทาไหรเลมนี อานจากเลมแปล "เพียงกลามอบหัวใจรัก"เมาท .. เลมแปลเปลียนชือคนแตง เปน Jacqueline McCoy .. เปลียนชือเรืองเปน Surrender Her Heartตอนซือไมร
ความรู้สึกเวลาอ่านเล่มเล็ก ๆ ของ จูดิธนั่นคือ ความไม่เข้าใจในอารมณ์ของตัวละครทุกอย่างดูงง ๆ หลง ๆ หลวม ๆ ไปหมดพระเอก เกือบดีละ .. แต่เป็นจอมเผด็จการมาก ๆ แถมยังปิดบังความจริงอะไรมากมาย จนไม่เข้าใจว่าทำสิ่งเหล่านี้ลงไปทำไม .. แต่รักนางเอกมาก ๆ นางเอก ตั้งแง่เยอะไปหน่อย มีปมกับการแต่งงานครั้งแรก แต่อ่าน ๆ แล้ว ไม่ได้รู้สึกว่ามันหนักหนาอะไรเท่าไหร่ .. แต่ก็เป็นเรื่องเป็นราวขึ้นมาได้ไม่ค่อยประทับใจเท่าไหร่เล่มนี้ อ่านจากเล่มแปล "เพียงกล้ามอบหัวใจรัก"เม้าท์ .. เล่มแปลเปลี่ยนชื่อคนแต่ง เป็น Jacqueline McCoy .. เปลี่ยนชื่อเรื่องเป็น Surrender Her Heartตอนซื้อไม่รู้หรอกว่าเป็นงานของจูดิธ .. อ่าน ๆ ไป แล้วคิดว่ามันน่าจะใช่เลยนั่งหาว่ามันคือเรื่องอะไร จากเรื่องย่อของเจ๊ .. ..ความพยายามสูงมาก...
My copy has the "flower" cover that was a hallmark of McNaught books in the 90s, but I'm pretty sure this was a reprint of a category romance. The romance and character development are a lot thinner than a McNaught standard, and the Latin lover plot are straight out of 80s category line. The usual autocratic male and innocent heroine are here, though.
katie 4gündür tanıdığı bir adam için evini,işini,lüks yaşantısını bırakmayı göze alıyo.iyi cesaret valla:) katienin eskiden yaşadıkları ve ramonun iş hayatındaki çıkmazları ilişkilerini zorluyor.. güzel bir hikaye ama şiddetle tavsiye edemicem..
Im very conflicted about this book.It would be a lot better if they actually talked to one another.
For all of his secretive and maybe (a little) manipulative ways, Ramon is also very understanding.
I think McNaught's focus was more on Ramon's character that Katie's story suffered a little.
However, Katie is truly kind despite her being judgmental.
She may not have realized her feelings for him at the time but the way she would make sure he's always happy proved that she truly cared for him.This is the kind of classic love story that I miss from new authors today.
I wouldn’t say I hated her character but I sure didn’t like it.The hero has very strong opinions on women and their role in life, and he comes across as some arrogant, temperamental jerk most of the time.
I’m not sure if the author wanted to portray him as an alpha male or some extremely passionate man but she fell short in my opinion.
He also wants Katie’s complete honesty but hides very important facts about himself.The heroine’s character is inconsistant.
I didn’t like that the author kept bringing up the dead ex-husband as an excuse to justify the heroine’s fear to get married again.
Ramón parace un retrógrada machista, pero en realidad es orgulloso y hasta noble.
El final parece muy apresurado y los picos de tensión, donde debió haberse sacado al conflicto de la quiebra de él y el trauma de ella se quedan cortos, casi en el aire.History without great pretensions, disappoints as it progresses because it does not take advantage of the conflict of the protagonists.
Ramón looks like a chauvinist retrograde, but in reality he is proud and even noble.
The end seems very hasty and the peaks of tension, where the conflict should have been removed from the bankruptcy of him and the trauma of her, it fall short, almost in the air.
Judith McNaught is my favorite romance author and that's saying a lot since I have been an avid reader of romance novels since the 1970's.
I have tracked down and read every book Ms. McNaught has ever written.
I have read "Whitney, My Love" over and over.
Her contemporary romances are every bit as good as her historical romances.
"Tender Triumph" is a contemporary romance about Katie Connelly and Ramon Galverra.
It is one of Ms. McNaught's early stories and right from the beginning of her early writing she showed extreme writing talent that hinted at the New York Times best selling author show would become.
