https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27883214-caraval
If everysinglethingthathappenedinthiswholebook was anything to go by, it was through a combination of pointless lying, constant embarrassment, obsession with Some Guy, a big act of caring about a younger sister despite very little indication of that being true, unrelenting drama about a dumb wedding, repetitive interactions, weird descriptions, gender-based generalizations, and insanely personal info-dumps about emotional happenings from the past.(insert elegant bow here) And that, my dear friends, is my Scarlett Dragna impression.
My book is just like that.” Spoiler alert: it’s really, really not.Oh, God, this review is going to be long.
Even more fun, during this book characters travel between countries/colonies/islands/empires/I have no idea, and the reader has NO GODDAMN CLUE WHAT IS GOING ON.Alright, I think I’ve talked about the setting for too long.
To take a quote from my review of The Star-Touched Queen, "if you buy into these metaphors, put on your prose-tinted glasses and let yourself get drunk on the glittering descriptions, I suppose you might be able to ignore..." that's literally how I feel about this.It is about two sisters - Scarlett and Tella - who live on some random island in the middle of random world X with their abusive father who wants to marry Scarlett off to a count she's never met.
I'm sat there thinking "how the hell does something TASTE LIKE MIDNIGHT?" What does it even mean that Tella's expression fell like a doll that Scarlett dropped?
I’m only gnawing my nails to the bloody nub in anticipation.)Surprisingly, one of my favorite things about this book was the budding romance between Julian and Scarlett.
While it is told mostly through Scarlett’s POV, we have a view into other’s interests as well, and the massive cliff hanger on the final page has set this up to be a strong series that should continue without a hitch.There is an overall dark feel to this book, and there is some disturbing violence in a fantasy-related sense, but it was necessary and intriguing to the story line.
I’m not going to elaborate, because I’d have to reveal some things that will spoil some surprises, so you’ll just have to trust me on that.But it’s good, so good.
Because whenever Scarlett learns something, we learn it too.The reader in me can’t help but try to guess what has happened and who that character is and what the characters will face in the future, etc.
But even though I kept trying to have things figured in my mind before the main character ever could, I still ended up being delightfully surprised.What really shines in this book is the action.
This freaking book HOLY CRAP.
I have a feeling this book is going to be a huge hit when it comes out, and rightfully so.
This is the kind of story that you just want to devour because you can't get enough.
It's a beautiful story about sisterhood and adventure, full of amazing characters and a delightfully dark world.
It's this grotesque Wonderland like world where the Mad Hatter is calling the shots.
Honestly cannot wait for you guys to get your hands on this.
Keep an eye out for it because wow.
Video review to come closer to publication date!
Well that was disappointing.
❝Whatever you've heard about Caraval, it doesn't compare to the reality. It's more than just a game or a performance. It's the closest you'll ever find to magic in this world.❞  Thank you to Flatiron Books for sending me an advance reading copy of Caraval for review purposes.4.5 STARSThis book was just absolutely ENCHANTING! I didn't know how high or how low to set my expectations before going into Caraval but one thing is for sure by the time I closed this book: Caraval surpassed all my expec
Thank you to Flatiron Books for sending me an advance reading copy of Caraval for review purposes.4.5 STARSThis book was just absolutely ENCHANTING!
But Caraval has easily set its place right next to The Night Circus as one of the most magical stories I have ever read.From the very first page up until the last, there was never a dull moment while reading Caraval.
There were just so many twists, turns, and puzzles that every page leaves you hanging at the edge of your seat.Although Caraval didn't really feel like it took place in a circus/carnival like I was hoping it would, the world building was still very mystical.
*Full Review Update!!* (Spoiler free) I cannot rave enough guys...
So many that I thought the ending couldn't possibly live up to the mystery this created..
Seriously, I wanted to throw like 10 billion quotes in my review because I loved it THAT MUCH but its going to be so much more mysterious if you just dive right in.
Everything about the plot and the other characters are a complete mystery.
I thought Stephanie was writing herself into a hole with all the mystery but boy oh boy did she deliver.
The way the whole story unfolds as a sort of mystery + quest with a deadline makes it a million times more addicting, but the characters, writing, and setting would have been incredibly strong on their own no matter what.
And I liked that this is a complete story by itself, but then the epilogue has a cliffhanger that leads into a sequel that's already perfectly set up!Stephanie Garber is an incredibly talented author and this is a book that pretty much any age will love!!Thank you to the publisher for sending me an ARC.
I would be like 500% okay if Scarlett fell into a bucket of soup and never got out.
BUT NARRATOR ASIDE = wow it was weird and wonderful.+ The world was actually incredible.It's like set in this mysterious carnival type island world.
So so much magical vibes.+ Mind twisty!They start off the book saying "nOTHING IS WHAT IT SEEMS" and Scarlett promptly forgets that 2 seconds later and freaks out over everything.
Which is weird that I still love the book a LOT even if Scarlett is as stimulating as that plastic fork over yonder??
If anything, it's ideas stolen from a bunch of other books, The Lunar Chronicles, Hunger Games, Night Circus and such.
There was no originality here whatsoever, on top of all that IT'S BORING AF!The only characters who held my attention were Iko (TLC much?) and Dante.
:/ Let's talk about Scarlet, our main character.
This Scarlet is one of those characters who we are constantly told is clever, adventurous, and ambitious.
These riddles weren't even hard to crack, but it took Miss Scarlet pages and pages crying over totally random and irrelevant things till correct answers would slap her right in the face.
This is my second time reading this as I was lucky enough to receive an ARC of the audiobook from Macmillan audio (thank you so much to them!) Honestly I loved it even more the second time. The audiobook was so atmospheric and beautiful and I just adore this story so much!!!
I guess I should just crack on with the book =) Soooooooooooo, Scarlett and Donatell (Tella) have a jerk face for a father and they are stuck on an island with him.
But Scarlett has a way out, she is to marry some dude her father set her up with and take her sister, Tella, with her.
When Scarlett was younger she used to write letters to Master Legend for years trying to get him to come to their island with his Caraval.
It's an unsavory way but Scarlett, Tella and Julian (whom Tella met while he was visiting their island) all end up at Caraval.
I was drawn in by the world that Ms. Garber created and it held my attention right to the very end.Every once in a while, I love a great paranormal romance.
Now, with the clock counting down to her wedding, it seems like fate that she would receive her first ever response and an invitation to participate in the Caraval.With the support of her sister, Scarlett sets off for the mysterious island where Legend has indicated that the Caraval is taking place.
This story held my attention and kept me guessing right to the very end.If you like adventure/fantasy/paranormal stories with plenty of twists and turns, this is a great choice.
And like all good magic tricks, this kills the spirit -- and, implicitly, the so called "plot" -- of Caraval.
And, much like Scarlett felt in last key-scenes, I also felt I haven't really made progress in the story.
We have Scarlett, our heroine; Julian, the love-interest; Donatella, the sister.
Legend, the pseudo villain and the mastermind behind Caraval.
About a quarter into the book, the feelings developed by Scarlett for Julian were already getting in the way of the plot.
It felt like the story flowed, despite its numerous hiccups.
It's an enigmatic story from start to finish and the epilogue assured I'll read the sequel.
The magic system was severely underdeveloped in my opinion, which is a big issue for me as a reader.
I don't often consider putting books down, but there were times when I questioned why I was still listening and contemplated not finishing it.Ultimately, this book felt very juvenile for me (that is not to say books intended for younger readers are not as good!) but I tend to enjoy more mature YA novels.
But considering I felt Caraval would have fared better as a standalone, it just doesn't seem like this series is for me.
Our futures are only predictable because as creatures of this world we are predictable. I really did want to like this book. I really did want to dive into a magical and dark adventure with Scarlett and Tella.Sadly for me, I didn’t enjoy it the way I thought I would, and this adventure turned out to be a little school trip to Boredom Land, with one heck of a frustrating main character. And don’t even let me start on her sister. The premise is good, though it has its little flaws right from the
I really did want to dive into a magical and dark adventure with Scarlett and Tella.Sadly for me, I didn’t enjoy it the way I thought I would, and this adventure turned out to be a little school trip to Boredom Land, with one heck of a frustrating main character.
Yet, as someone who’s supposed to be the tough and motherly sister, I feel like she’s way too immature and naïve, too ready to give away her feelings to those who don’t deserve it.
I've read 62 pages and I've had enough of this shitty cringefest. I dnfed this weeks ago and can't stand any of the one dimensional characters, especially the muscular, hot and swoon worthy dude who KIDNAPS the MAIN CHARACTER!!! *swoons* wow so hot!!! fuck this abomination of a book.br with my girl Alyssa who also dnfed lmao.
4.5/5 - This review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the BooksI had high expectations and low expectations stepping into Caraval. Everyone who's read it has been gushing over what a masterpiece it is. But then it was also endlessly compared to The Night Circus. Confession: I didn't like The Night Circus, so I was concerned that I just wouldn't be the target reader for Caraval.  Within the first few pages, it was clear that I was going to fawn over it.  "Remember, it's only a game..."  Is i
4.5/5 - This review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the BooksI had high expectations and low expectations stepping into Caraval.
Confession: I didn't like The Night Circus, so I was concerned that I just wouldn't be the target reader for Caraval.
Scarlett, Tella, and Julian jumped off the pages straight away.
I believe there is a sequel planned, but I felt a good deal of closure with the ending as it is (but I am definitely going to be first in line to step back into this world!)Caraval may end up being one of the biggest YA books of 2017.
Scarlett has been writing to the master of Caraval, Legend, her whole life in hopes to acquire tickets for her and her sister, and after all these years she finally gets a letter back.And the sibling love in this is so amazing.
Scarlett's devotion to her sister warmed my heart completely and I loved reading about it.
This book does border on unreliable narrative though, because as Scarlett is learning the rules of the game and the magic of Caraval, so is the reader.
Hopefully, in the next book, my love for Scarlett will carry over to Tella.
this book was like that, but only 1000x more magical.
i am OBSESSED.there is nothing quite like the amazement and sensational wonder of this book.
i just wanted to crawl into the pages and spend the rest of my days enthralled by the enchanting magic of this story.
i love stories that make me second guess what i know and think, and this captivated me from the first page.
the stakes are high, unseen forces are in play, and the truth of everything is more hidden than the identity of caraval master legend himself.
Hi all!!Thank you all so much for being interested in my book! For those of you who are curious, you can now get a sneak peek inside at the first two chapters on Entertainment Weekly! Happy reading! http://www.ew.com/article/2016/04/15/...
Did anyone else see this while they were reading?So how do you pronounce this, exactly?In my head, I was saying it like Carnival without the n sound.
Both sisters are devoted to each other, though.Alright, Scarlett's relationship with Tella, and the stuff with their father is what initially drew me into the story.
I'm sucked in, couldn't stop reading!But then the book takes off in a different direction, and there's also all the weird stuff about some sort of a magic traveling carnival, and some equally odd backstory about the guy who runs it.
Very different.And I mean that in a good way.
4.5/5 starsVIDEO REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aPwq5...Wow. I have been seeing this book being praised for months now and finally, I understand where the hype is coming from.
Magical and whimsical.
This story just flies by and I loved getting deeper into it as the storyline progressed.
I'm shocked at the fact Stephanie Garber is a debut author and this is only her first book because it was everything I wanted and more.
I CANNOT wait for more from this author because my goodness this is only her first book and I'm already anticipating anything else she comes out with.SO happy to say the hype was real for me.
Yet Scarlett doesn't know how her and Tella can manage to get off the island to go to Caraval without their abusive father's wrath coming down on them.
Tella meanwhile is plotting a way to escape from their father with a sailor's, Julian, help when she finds out about the tickets and becomes set on bringing Scarlett off the island with her.
The way things ended up playing out and all the coincidences that piled up through out the book just made it feel messy and not at all well thought out.
Remember, it’s only a game…  I wish you had told me it’s a boring one though, that is.If you were to tell me that I would end up reading Caraval after having it on my tbr for 2 years, I would not have believed you. I remember being suuuuuuper excited for this but never got around to reading it because I simply, truthfully, did not want to spend my money on it after seeing so many mixed reviews, so I waited until my library had it. Now, Legendary is out and my library also has that one but here
Now, Legendary is out and my library also has that one but here I am, reading other books I had never heard of before.Caraval is a manipulative game that two sisters have wished to attend, Scarlett and Donatella Dragna.
No wait, HE was a mess.But then, of course, everything was a lie and of course, Scarlett was stupid and blind that she forgave him no matter what because oh she was so in love with him.When I went into this, I truly wanted to feel the ride of Caraval, but I couldn't.
If you haven't read the book and didn't adhere to my warning at the top of this review, I highly recommend you skedaddle because I am about to go into the characters.
For a book where the only review I saw that wasn't a five was Caitlin's, the character's were so dumb and one-dimensional.
When you have a book with the preface of "it's all a game" and "nothing is real", it's going to be fucking boring when you try to add 6385923759 plot twists at the end that are dumbdumb.
O M GI NEED BOOK TWO...Some parts where a bit whishy washy in the sense of to many descriptions and the pacing for me, in some places where a tad off. BUT the twists and turns have left me jarred. I LOVED THE ENDING..
Caraval might just be the most interesting and twisted book Ive read in a long while. Update 19.10.17 The story follows two sisters voyage to Isla de los Sueños, after being invited to attend this years Caraval. Here, a mystery must be solved, but as every participant has been told repeatedly- Its only a game! The story is captivating, drawing the reader in from the very first page. Stephanie Garber has created a lot of fascinating secondary characters and a magical setting, adding her attention
Stephanie Garber has created a lot of fascinating secondary characters and a magical setting, adding her attention to details makes it easy to picture the world of Caraval.
While reading the first chapter, I thought Scarlett (the main character) would be a smart one.
There were a lot of plot twists, but after building the suspense for so many chapters, I felt as if she chose the safest way to end things.
(view spoiler)[ I think it would have made a bigger impact if everything didn´t end well, and Garber would have stuck to at least one of the "bad" things she kept mentioning throughout the story.
Above all things, Scarlett desires escape from her father.
And once Scarlett gets to her destination, it only gets worse, b/c we know the things she repeatedly tells us are untrue.
The only things we know about Scarlett's world are:1.
The part of the world that Scarlett and her family live in is conquered (by we-don't-know-who) and travel is restricted.
Although I don't think CARAVAL by Stephanie Garber comes close to living up to the hype, I don't regret reading it, and I'll probably read the next book.
