https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57605.Pat_the_Bunny
Paul likes flowers.
(He seems to gravitate towards ones that smell like grandmothers.) Daddy is...well, daddy, is pretty.Bunny is big.
How big is bunny?
Bunny is vaguely menacing, especially in Judy's book within a book that, like Arabian Nights or If On a Winter's Night a Traveler, expands and undermines the universe of the book we're reading.
Is it Paul and Judy?
Written in 1940, Pat the Bunny was the progenitor of a whole series of touchy children's books, reaching their unholy apex with the That's Not My...
Paul and Judy will be back for your child's child.
All the activities in the book are things kids do -- except patting the bunny.
Is that a normal childhood activity, patting bunnies?
And if you look at it for a while, the bunny in Pat the Bunny is sort of freaky looking.
And why is the entire book called "Pat the Bunny" when the bunny gets one page?
Why isn't it called "Touch Dad's Scratchy Face?" Okay, that book wouldn't be a kid's classic sixty years later.
Especially because that page looks like "Touch Dad's Scratchy Birthmark." but tactile books are always great when you're super tiny, and this is the classic.
All three of my children went through a couple of copies of Pat the Bunny until they were tattered and torn. It is a wonderfully tactile book that gives every excuse to snuggle up with a child. That is the true language of a children's book: the language of love that passes between a parent and child. It has very little to do with words.
The very young love it.I am moved to review (in Jul 2016) because I bought a new edition for DS#2 (age 1) and it's better quality than his older one (or ones - how quickly a sleep deprived parent's memory fades).
Too late for some copies of this book (we've gone through at least one per child) but I've seen people use yarn to tie it back together.
Most of one-year-old DD#2's original copy survives, but we went ahead and purchased the larger-sized Special Edition for her anyway.
In addition to being significantly bigger, it also includes two features which were in the 1940s version but were dropped later.
Three things I love about this book:1. The smell of the flowers2. The weird retro look of the family3. How my daughter reacts to the book: Examples:Instead of patting the bunny, she PRESSES it really hard. She delights in playing peek-a-boo with Paul. Oh, and she says that "daddy" looks like me, her mommy.
This was really sweet, and encourages interaction between child and book. Awesome.The kids in our family are a bit too old for this already, but now I'm hoping for a new addition to the family, so I'll have an excuse to go buy this book...
Lovely lil book! ^_^
This is definitely the best book I have ever read(yes, divergent has been replaced).
Ohmygoodness, I remember reading this with my brother when he was only... maybe one? At least 14 years ago now - how is that possible?!
I did not own a Pat the Bunny book (that I remember, anyway) but I believe I had nieces and nephews with this book. I love this book. I've spent time in bookstores patting the bunny.
ok as far as little kids books go.what sets it apart is the book within a book called judy's book which wonders about a bunny's conception of time.
Bunnies disgust me.
How can a child get bored?I can remember the soft bunny and stroking it with the turn of a page.
I can remember being so happy when I could read Judy's book on my own, though my first experience of reading was  Hop on Pop. I still remember the joy this book brought into my lifeIn short, this book is a classic and I never see it losing that status.
Simplicity and tactile pleasure are a winning combination in any children's book, and in my life this was the book I first experienced that with.
There are several books that trigger memories of my youth. This is one of those books.And the amazing thing about this book is that a copy has managed to make it into the household of every new baby that comes into our family. Pat the Bunny is definitely a nursery room standard.
My 9-month-0ld loves this book. It turns story time into play time. It opens with her absolute favorite part, patting the bunny, but she also enjoys playing peek-a-boo and looking in the mirror. The final activity, of course, is Eat the Book--also a favorite.
I had this book as a child and now have a copy to read to my 1-year old. He loves interacting with the multi sensory pages.
I'm surprised that when they reissued this they didn't make it a board book.
This year for Easter, my little boy got a basket of books.
He also received some small stuffed animals and a little chocolate, but mostly he got books.
And he loved this book to pieces, literally.
In fact, after I write this review I will have to try to mend the book.I bought this book for his Easter basket because it was on the South Carolina Libraries list of 100 Picture Books for Toddlers.
This book appeals to all his sense (alas, even taste) in every sense.If I am lacking in supplies and skill to mend this particular copy, I will be looking for another, hardier version, because he really wants this book back.
12 July 2010My sister recommended this book to me several years ago.
When I heard the title, I assumed this was a book about a bunny named Pat. Ha!A simple little book, but it is very exciting for toddlers as it is interactive.
Both of my children have been excited when they read it.Tonight my son selected this from the bookshelf.
We would still be reading it if it were up to him.
As we see, so can our children.****26 September 2011Surprisingly, the boy selected this book again for his nighttime story.
He is too old at four-and-a-half years, but he seeks sensory items so much, I understand why he still likes this book.
I, the mom reading this over and over to her toddler, dislike the flower-page smell and am slightly annoyed by the ferociously cheerful tone of the text (you can do things, too!).
But it is a classic.
And my toddler, the (pre)reader whose opinion actually matters, loves it.
I think the biggest draw for her is the variety of things to do.
Instead of just touching several different textures, she actually does different things: look in a mirror, lift a flap, put her finger through a hole in the page, etc.
I don't think she understands sniffing the flowers yet though.
My three kids (6, 4, and 2) enjoy reading this sweet book before bedtime. What makes it so appealing is that it's more than just a touch and feel book--it uses so many senses. Besides patting the bunny and feeling daddy's whiskers, you also smell the flowers, lift a cloth to play peek-a-boo, turn little tiny pages on a little tiny book, and fit your finger through Mummy's ring. One of the first tactile books and definitely one of the best. I like the simple artwork.
One of the earliest touch-and-feel books feels incredibly dated now but I like it for the fact that it was a text created by Kundhardt to bring reading experiences closer to the very young. Published in the 30s, Kundhardt was looking for something to engage her infant daughter in reading and since these types of books are still going strong today, it could be argued that she found an idea which worked well.
Adorable. Especially if you have a rambunctious page drooling, ripping child that wants to eat the book rather than listen to it. Great hands on book to teach gentleness, especially if you own a pet. I also bought the velvet bunny to go with it and love how crunchy the ears sound!
the "flower smell" alone makes this book lose massive star points. also not working in its favor - paul's oddly oedipal behavior (he "can put his finger in mommy's [wedding:] ring), weak illustrations, and shoddy construction.
As one of the very first lift-the-flap texture books for young children, this has won its way into many a home and early-childhood memory. As a mom and a children's librarian I found myself creating kits inspired by this book for my own children and library friends to make.
An oddly creepy book for an old favorite. Begging for a postmodern parody (Harvest the Bunny in a Satanic Ritual, perhaps). Also the binding was very poor on our copy and it did not survive two years of regular wear and tear.
Cute, sweet and surprisingly addictive, even if you're a grown up. I loved reading this to my niece when she was a baby. Hell, I read it long after she'd made it to kindergarten.
I read this with my cousin JD:-) I don't know what was more fun...reading this cute book, or seeing how happy it made may cousin!!!!! I think seeing my cousin so happy:-)
One of the creepiest kids books ever.
I liked Samuel Beckett's version better.
