https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16130291-the-silver-star
In a town full of stereotypes – the evil mill foreman, his downtrodden wife, Bean’s new-found family of caring and loving country folks – Bean and Liz deal with their family name, their neglectful mother’s emotional abuse and a horrific tragedy that befells Liz.The silver star mentioned in the title seems to be the medal Bean’s true father received during the Korean War, yet the medal itself is only mentioned a few times and doesn’t really have a big impact on the story.
Flat in so many areas, two dimensional characters – save for Bean herself – it just doesn’t pack the punch that Half Broke Horses and The Glass Castle do.This review is also available at my book review blog Tangled Bookmarks:http://jakiblue.com.au/the-silver-sta...
I am huge fan of Jeannette Walls (hence the generous three stars), but this book fell flat. It seemed contrived and predictable. From the characters, to the plot, the entire book read like a symphony composed of only one note. There was nothing special, surprising or unique about this book. I still love JW and will read her next book. If you read this one, borrow it from a friend or check it out at the library.
Though I really enjoyed The Silver Star, I don’t foresee the same thing happening.Sisters, Bean and Liz Holladay have the misfortune of being the daughters of a supremely flakey mother, Charlotte, who doesn’t see a problem leaving a 12 and 15 year old home alone for weeks at a time.
But in the women’s defense, she does leave enough money to keep the girls in chicken pot pies.When people in the small, Southern California town of Lost Lake become suspicious, the sisters decide to leave and travel across country by bus to ‘visit’ their mother’s family in Virginia unannounced.
It’s not a bad book by far, but I felt like she kind of gave up little at some point while writing it.
It’s like people are standing in line to make idiots out of themselves if you have blonde hair.
Here’s how: I think having blonde hair makes people associate me as a child, so they feel more free to say inappropriate things and show terrible judgment.
And Jeannette Walls is so amazing at telling stories of what assholes people are to kids.
So, like the people in Byler, I am left thinking that if some skinny kids can stand up for themselves in this way, I can.
But, Walls knows how to tell that stuff.It seems like, at least on some level, this book is a response to The Help.
After having read Ms Walls' first two novels, this one was a disappointment. The writing and the story telling was simplistic and probably makes for an ok YA novel. This author does seem quite focused on someone being a bad parent and one would guess after the experiences she and her siblings went through that that makes sense.This was certainly an easy quick read, however, it was not very inspiring. On the plus side, it did show the resiliency of sisters and one of family ties that oftentimes saves one who is in a bad situation.
3.5 stars This was a very quick, enjoyable read. It definitely gave me similar vibes as  The Glass Castle and  White Oleander, but my one complaint is that it seemed to lack the depth that those books had. Though it approached serious topics with care, it didn't seem to analyze them enough for me. It felt very surface-level. Nonetheless, I enjoy Walls' writing style and it would be a good pick for people who read a lot of YA and might want to tread into adult literary fiction.
I read the book in a day and was left longing to know more about the sisters lives as they grew older. Mrs Walls has again given me a book that keeps me thinking about the people you meet in life and their story. I had the great opportunity of hearing Mrs. Walls speak a couple of years ago, she encouraged everyone to write their story.....what an inspiration she is!
There was very little character development and I ultimately couldn't decide what this novel was supposed to be about.
An unreliable mother?
A grumpy uncle?
The story was just all over the place and the author didn't really delve into any one subject thoroughly enough to tie it all together.
It was the same with the characters.
The author never really explored the motivations of anyone--which is a shame because the uncle, the mother, all of the Wyatts, even Maddox should have been much more interesting than what they were.
And, personally, I couldn't find Bean that compelling because she was too much of a Scout Finch wannabe.
3.5 stars. A good story by a gifted writer, but I expected much better. I liked Bean a lot but the rest of the characters seem pale by comparison and the story feels almost too easy.
If ever an author is able to write a wonderfully poignant novel about two young girls and an unstable mother, Wallis is the one.
Unfortunately for many of us family or life circumstances make one grow up much faster than their chronological age can show.
Although they grew up faster as far as responsibility, the girls are still naive in many things to do with the world.Family, and family loyalty are also themes.
Bean wormed her way into my heart, just as a young Jeanette did in her memoir, "Glass Castle." She understands young girls and I hope she writes many more stories such a this one.
Curiosity kicked in when I first read the title of this book and I included this right away in my to-read list.
I've read some not-so-good reviews here regarding this book, but it didn't stop me from reading this and enjoying the story.
Liz and Bean's mother, Charlotte, totally irked me for being so irresponsible.
At least the girls were still lucky because there are several people who helped them, like their Uncle Tinsley and Bean's paternal relatives.I enjoyed reading this, but I don't consider this to be an outstanding novel.
While I know she has gone through some terrible situations in her own life, I don't think creating new ones through fiction is her strength.
She did a great job of creating the characters in Silver Star and the problems that went with the characters, but the book never really went anywhere.
The ending was wrapped up in a strange way that left me feeling as if the problems surrounding the characters were unresolved.
I think Walls spent too much time on character development and not enough time of the story.
The story suffers from an arc that peaks at the beginning, when it deals with the main character's narcissistic and manic mother (a conceit that Walls apparently excels at) and then descends until it stretches into a consistently straight line that never deviates, good or bad, up or down, until it just ends.
It's a very good effort, and the reader feels that maybe this is Walls trying to be a fiction writer, with bigger and better things to come.Another problem is the saccharine feel of the story.
While there are no mockingbirds in this novel there are emus and a silver star and their symbolism is as strong as the mockingbird.
As Scout watches and protects her brother Jem, Bean, who is younger, does the same for her sister Liz. The symbiotic relationship is strong and necessary as something happens to Liz. I was caught by both the simplicity and power of the author's prose.
This author provided the reader with those necessary wings to ensure flight.
We've got smart moves and new towns and a big, bad villian!And then it all fell apart.I hate feeling preached-at, I absolutely hate it.
It was like little 12-year-old Bean went from a kid who is pretty much being cared for by her clever, capable older sister to this wise sage who is the only person able to see the ALL the truths in the tiny town but there's no bridge between the two.
She started out so well and then just sort of fell apart and turned into nothing, an empty space.The mom was the standard I-came-from-a-small-town-and-now-I'm-going-to-be-famous fare.
This one is definitely a novel and not based on her life or any of her relatives.The book opens with two sisters (they are really half sisters who share the same mother, but have different fathers), Liz who is 15 and Bean who is 12.
She often leaves the girls for a few days at a time.
The subsist on eating pot pies when she is gone.One day the mother leaves and sends the girls enough money to last a month or two.
All through the book, I couldn't help but compare Bean to Scout Finch from "To Kill a Mockingbird" and the younger sister from Jodi Picoult's "My Sister's Keeper," spunky girls who did what needed to be done.
When Bean comes home to espy police sniffing around their home, the sisters hop on a bus and head for their Mother's birthplace and the hope of shelter and safety of their Uncle.
Since the Uncle was so adverse to the girls working and adamant about them wearing their Mother's old clothes, wouldn't he wonder where the blue jeans and dresses were coming from?3.
(hide spoiler)]Many of the characters could have stood for more fleshing out - the Uncle first and foremost.However, overall, I liked the story and see it as a good first attempt at writing fiction.
Although a sweet enough story, the feeling that I'd met these cookie cutter characters before made this book fall a bit short for me.
Interestingly enough, I was reading The Silver Star at the same time I was reading The Last Summer of the Camperdowns by Elizabeth Kelly, both coming of age novels narrated by 12-13 year old female protagonists and both taking place in the early 1970s.
The Last Summer of the Camperdowns was far superior to The Silver Star...more beautiful language, better plot, more interesting characters.
It's a big adjustment to be living in a 1970s Southern mill town during the first year of school integration.The book is narrated by Bean, a strong, spunky girl with a lot of the same spirit as Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird, which she is studying at school.
Bean and Liz get jobs in the household of Jerry Maddox, the town bully and mill manager.
While much of the plot was expected once the girls were hired by Jerry Maddox, the book still kept my interest.
There were some sweet and funny scenes when Liz bonded with some escaped emus near the end of the book.
I really enjoyed this dark, gothic book!
I loved the narration and that the main character was a young, spunky child.
This choice added depth and voice to the tale, helping me truly feel for the characters.
At times this book was filled with the lightness of childhood and others extreme darkness.
I also was swept away by the setting, truly feeling the south and craving summer days.
The characters in this book were so varied!
From captivating, frustrating horrifying and endearing, they all had strong personalities that tugged at my heart strings in one way or another.
She once again probes the ins and outs of family dysfunction in her latest novel, The Silver Star.
The novel, set in 1970, opens in California, where Liz, age fifteen, and her sister Bean, age twelve are living with their artistic and unconventional mother Charlotte.
When Charlotte doesn’t appear, the girls enter school in the same hometown that their mother was so desperate to leave.
While the issues that Walls raises are interesting and deftly presented it is her gift for characterization that really makes The Silver Star a sensational novel.
Adequate time had been devoted to the reader with the introduction of the cast as they were presented, one by one, and in turn invoked a level of comfort and familiarity with each character.
Only this time with money and food running out and no word from their mother, they had to come up with a plan.
Lucky for them their uncle had a heart of gold.Weeks later their mother showed up on their doorstep and took her daughters for an adventure to New York City in her usual willy-nilly fashion.
"Don't be afraid of your dark places. If you can shine a light on them, you'll find treasure there."
A story about a girl coming of age to find that the world is not always fair but with the right people in your life, you can overcome anything.
Bean learns about her deceased father and meets his family; the girls discover that living in the South is quite different from California; and the culture shock is almost too much.The Silver Star is one of those family stories that is rich in characterization, revealing much about the times and the racial tensions of a newly integrated South.
What they also learn is how forming a new kind of family can change the face of it, including bringing their hermit uncle out of his reclusive ways.What happens to Liz that ignites a firestorm of lies and injustice?
The story isn't overly original--two sisters must raise themselves because their artistic mother is unstable and unreliable--but Walls nails it.
As Bean starts to fit in, her more artistic and beloved older sister, Liz, begins to take on more and more of their mother's unstable traits.
After both girls start working for the local mill boss--a pig of a man whom Walls brings to life perfectly--things go from bad to worse for Liz. Bean's ideas of justice are tested as the reality of class differences makes itself known in ugly, painful and very public ways as the novel winds to its conclusion.
She’s often left before, but this time, the girls don’t know when she might return and the officials are starting to snoop around, getting tipped off that the children are unsupervised.
This dysfunctional single-parent family is surviving because of the resilience of the children.
They take it upon themselves to head to the only family they know exists – their uncle who lives on the other side of the country.
Similar to Walls memoir, Bean manages to stay true to her moral compass and demonstrates a resiliency well beyond her 12 years.
I listened to the audiobook version, read by the author, so my response is as much about the performance as about the story.
Overall it seems like Walls was trying to hard to force a story, using bits and pieces from other successful books that deal with the same topic- children abandoned by their parents, either literally or emotionally.
I listen to several audiobooks a week on my commute, and this reading was lackluster at best and didn't do the story any favors.
Sometimes a good reader can rescue a so-so story by elevating and dignifying it, but Walls' reading only served to highlight the weak writing.
I love Jeannette Walls!
She is on a book tour for The Silver Star but interestingly did not read from the new book.
But she was inspiring and incredibly honest about everything she touched upon.I had fun with The Silver Star.
I think Walls may have been struggling a little bit with jumping off into the ocean of fiction.
It isn't a long book so I don't think there was any need to take us out of live scene quite so much to tidy things up and move us along.
this was such a quick read!After loving The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls (it may be my favorite book ever), I was really looking forward to this one.
I was a bit disappointed, but I was also not expecting to love this book as I knew my expectations were too high going into it.In many aspects, it was very similar to The Glass Castle.
However, something I really loved about this book was the trial that takes place.While this book wasn't as good as The Glass Castle, I still really enjoyed it!
