https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3023.Basic_Economics
You may get indoctrinated, but how much you are likely to learn is open for debate.For example, one might think that after reading a book setting out to explain basic economics one would come away knowing how the share market works – I mean, beyond a bland assertion that shares are different from bonds in that the holder of a share in a company is a part owner of that company.
Government interference in free markets is almost always bad because it overrides millions of people's decisions and creates unintended negative consequences.6.
The price system conveys information more quickly and efficiently than any alternative.8.
Economics is about the allocation of scarce resources that have alternative uses.9.
Economics is not about money; it's about the underlying resources that money and prices represent.10.
There are only noneconomic values because economics is not a value in itself; rather, it is a system that supplies information by which decisions can be made.

I would recommend this introduction to anyone who wants to learn the basics of economics in order to be a better informed citizen.
It doesn't use technical jargon, but outlines basic principles clearly and in plain language, without graphs or equations, using real life examples.
The basic principles he outlines are true of any economy--whether capitalist, socialist, communist, or mixed—but he also goes on to show how specific economic policies work (or don't work) in specific contexts.
Most importantly, he encourages "the reader to look at economic policies and economic systems in terms of the incentives they create, rather than simply the goals that they proclaim.
Thomas Sowell and this book fit into that profile (and, yes, I am that much of a geek that I'm exclaiming over an economics book!).
Please note that, although this is not written in high academic prose, it is still not happy-fluffy-after-work reading.
It is, however, a book in which Sowell does a wonderful job of covering the basic workings of economic principles, a subject that is so often poorly understood and so often easily misconstrued.
If I could create a required reading list for Americans concerned with their future and their children's future, this would be among the top books on that list.
I listened to the audio version of this book while commuting to and from work.
My biggest complaint is that my commute is not long enough.
But of course, this book covered much more than that.
The book is rich in examples of the fundamentals.
One could say that it sometimes gives too many examples and that the book could be much shorter than it is, but I found the repetition of concepts to be great for an audiobook while commuting, as the occasional distractions of driving would not be enough to throw me off from the book.

"Economic policies need to be analysed in terms of the incentives they create, rather than the hopes that inspire them." page 45My first observation about most reviewers is that they condemn an author based mostly on his/her political views (Sowell is conservative) and if the reviewers are somewhat intelligent they will hint at a problem or two, offer a few rants about what their "SYMPATHETIC SOCIALIST" leader would do, which turns out to always place more debt, lose more jobs, create less competition and leave everyone worse off...
A great work for those who want to increase knowledge.
This is an amazing book and absolutely a must-read if you want to understand the basic causes and effects of a free market economy.
Here's a warning.
If you have any passion at all about politics, or concern about government intruding into your life, or if you're the least bit cynical about politicians, be prepared to pull your hair right out of your head.
I wanted to throw this book across the room several times, but finally promised myself I would write a letter to Dr. Sowell when I finished it.
And he signed the front page!
I promptly framed the page and hung it in my living room.I absolutely love that man.
Love him!
Politicians get elected by the great sounding programs they propose and support, and when those programs either fail in their aims or have entirely the opposite result as the stated goal, the collective memory is not long enough that it makes any difference, so we end up with more and more programs that help special interest groups (like farm subsidies) to the detriment of the country's consumers as a whole.
Not enough people in the country have enough knowledge of economics to allow a person to be elected on sound economic principles because they are attacked mercilessly as pandering to the rich and haters of the poor.The most often repeated idea in the book is that the entire scope of economics is about allocating scarce resources with alternative uses.
What I got instead was an ideologically charged diatribe of the government and a love-fest of the free market.Everything is backed up with anecdotal evidence and sweeping statements made with much hand waving.
While it doesn't need be filled with graphs and such, some proofs would be nice.
If this is your only source of economics knowledge, you will become a free marketer, but other economics theories do make the case for government interventions in certain conditions.
At $30 US this book is overvalued despite what he says, which is why I picked it up with the help of government intervention (the public library).
Sure, there are still controversies, just as there are in any science, but the basic principles of economics today are NOT matters of opinion.For example, we know what happens when governments impose price controls in all their many varieties—rent caps, minimum wages, laws against price gouging, and medical care cost limits.
Has he not looked at the data which shows that huge profits invite more competition, which tries to get ahead of the leader by cutting prices, which allows the American workers to get more for less, thus raising their standard of living?In the 1980′s and 1990′s India and China began to make fundamental changes to their economic policies, doing the things that have been proven to work.
Professor Sowell can be quite biased and overly sarcastic at times but I still count this book as one of the most important books I've read in the last few years.
Anyone of voting age should seek out a greater understanding of our market economy and this book is a great resource particularly because of the emphasis on how economics affects and is affected by government policy.
After reading this book, I am now very interested to find a book that argues against the pro-free markets arguments in this book to better understand what might actually happen when policies like increased minimum wage are put into effect.
Starting out with the observation that we may think we don't own beachfront property because of its price.
For instance, in the Soviet Union, they usually used about two and a half more metal to produce the same amount of consumer goods as the United States; state planning meant there was no motive to economize.
The rise of the mail-order catalog, and how the man who persuaded Sears to open department stores to supplement the catalog was originally working for Montgomery Ward, where he got fired for expressing the same notion.
How the founders of Sears, Montgomery Ward, and J.
Excellent overview of modern economics for the lay person.
Covers a wide variety of topics simply and easily.
This books helps, although it is necessary to understand both the free-market stance and the relative lack of terminology.Be warned - if you are not a supporter of free-market economics, you will disagree with much in this book, as the author ascribes so much to it.
Be warned, and do your own research about everything discussed - for example, I would have preferred more modern examples.
However, it is still useful to understand the tenets of that system.
Has its biases but definitely offers a valid way of thinking about economics. I think the Chicago School of economics offers a good framework to work off of and this book is a good introduction to the intricacies of various economic frameworks (with an obvious bias towards the Chicago School).I found the last 5 or so chapters really insightful (especially the chapter on the international disparity of wealth) so try to make it through the book and you might learn something new irrespective of which economic framework you prefer.
If everyone read this book, the Democratic Party would be out of business, and for good reason. There are certain economic laws; there is economic history; there are economic limits., Liberals ignore this and proceed on good supposedly good intentions. Reality be damned.
This is a book that anyone who works, spends or saves in today's world should read before doing any of those activities.I also think that it should be mandatory reading for anyone who does or plans to vote.
If you take anything from this book, it should be this: The intended goals of any type of economic aid can never be considered separately from the actual economic incentives the policies implemented to ostensibly reach that goal will create, without causing more destruction and more harm to the economy and the people as a whole.
It is up to us as citizens of this great nation, to hold our governments accountable and to demand that they consider the full economic ramifications of their plans before they implement them.
A clearly and concisely written analysis of how incentives impact the economic decisions people make. Most notable is the idea that communism fails not only because of people's propensity to cheat in an environment free of incentives, but because of the fact that even in a world full of non-cheaters, a price-control system cannot allocate resources with the same efficiency that a market does automatically. Sheds some light on how a country like the USSR can sit on such expansive natural resources and still never be able to feed itself.
Fascinating, edifying, accessible, and insightful. An invaluable book for understanding an important topic. Everyone who intends voting ought to read this book so that they understand economic issues.
An easily understood, common sense guide to basic economic principles. Should be required reading at all institutions of higher learning.
A guide to throw your misconceptions into garbage.
Everyone who can read should read this book - otherwise, get the audiobook.
Може би причината за това е начинът, по който се преподава икономиката, с огромно наблягане на формули, графики и термини и абсолютно пренебрегване на фундаменталните човешки взаимодействия и мотивация, които стоят зад тях.Резултатът е виден навсякъде - и политици и електорат, че и мнозинството от щатните по сутрешните блокове експерти и икономисти, обсъждат неща като минимална заплата, закони за лихвите и т.н.
А Томас Соуел не само ще ви каже, но и ще ви обясни, в това незаменимо ръководство по основи на икономиката и как обикновения човек да разбира икономическите въпроси.Всъщност, препоръчвам я като основно и първо четиво и на всички студенти по икономика, че и на завършилите я.
"Basic Economics" implies a presentation of universal principles that would generally be agreed upon by most who study the subject.
However, the economic principles being presented as "common-sense" or even fact are often very debatable and in some instances, from this laypersons perspective, flat out wrong.Simply by discussing the basic principles of a free-market system, albeit from a biased perspective, in a well thought out and clear manner, this book proves to be worthy of its purchase price.
It obviously favors laissez-faire free market systems with little governmental intervention or regulation.
I wanted a clearer version of the Econ 101 I muddled through in college, and I admired Sowell's work, so I started reading this book.
Some are, but most are simply the young, who haven't yet had time to gain the work experience they need to make more money.Sowell's main thrust is that an informed voting public who understand basic economic principles is vital to curb the excesses of politicians whose economic decisions tend to look no farther ahead than the next election, leaving their successors to deal with the fallout from their counterproductive actions.Basic Economics should be required reading for any American seeking to register to vote.
Sowell clearly explains why the market system is the most efficient method of allocating goods in a world where resources are scarce.....
and the negative,and sometimes unintended effects of other methods.
"Careful and complex mathematical calculations can make the difference between having an astronaut who is returning to earth crashing in the Himalayas or landing safely in Florida.
Let's all go to Florida!
And yet a crash in the Himalyas is still a possibility because as Sowell also states, "Politicians understand that there are always more people who do not understand economics than people who do."
"For those who are willing to stop and think, basic economics provides some tools for evaluating policies and proposals in terms of their logical implications and empirical consequences"-Thomas SowellHonestly I couldn't have summed up this book any better than that. Dr. Sowell has a way of plainly and concisely presenting economic principals. In this book he solely (no pun intended) used words to illustrate economic concepts. I feel like this book is a perfect introduction to economics and it has sparked my interest in this discipline. In short, Dr. Sowell is the homie.
Incidentally, during the Great Depression of the 1930s, the United States had an export surplus-a "favorable" balance of trade-in every year of that disastrous decade.17)The reasons why countries gain from international trade are usually grouped together by economists under three categories: absolute advantage, comparative advantage, and economies of scale.18)It has beenestimated that the minimum output of automobiles needed to achieve an efficient cost per car is somewhere between 200,000 to 400,000 automobiles per year.But, in a country with a much smaller population-Australia, for example-there is no way to sell enough cars within the country to be able to develop and produce automobiles from scratch to sell at prices low enough to compete with automobiles produced in much larger quantities in the United States or Japan.
