https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89722.Come_Along_With_Me
When the whole family comes down with the gripe it makes for an amusing night of bed switching, blanket and pillow switching along with the many accouterments the various family members take to bed. Delightful, amusing and as a parent she must have had a great deal of patience.
This Halloween, read Shirley Jackson!!The subtlety that works incredibly well in classic horror films works its magnificent power in this realm like it never has before (sorry King, sorry Barker...
Nobody can reach the pointillistic American Gothic of Shirley Jackson.Death stains all--matter-of-factly--and doesn't comfort but unnerve.
Characters in her short tales fill up empty rooms slowly as if with all of their hopes and dreams.
Her world is one ripe with horrid implications--gross details and flaws in the suburban design.She is perfect as Hawthorne in this, my favorite of all literary genres; his novels and short stories are as perfect as her sketches (published and non-) and lectures.
If I had to pick a favorite short story from this book I'd say all of them.
All of the short stories wedged their creepy little fingers way back into my head and seem to have gotten a pretty good hold back there.
Ms Jackson has this things about houses that just makes me fear these structures now.
She makes me believe that houses are alive, breathing, and sometimes sinister things.
When I leave my house I lock the front gate so it doesn't run off.Now my favorite part of the book are the lectures.
In particular the one about her short story 'The Lottery'.
But this woman obviously has a bag of secrets that would have made for a scintillating tale had Jackson lived to finish it.“Janice” - Jackson’s first published short story, a brief piece of short horror about a girl who casually recounts her suicide attempt earlier in the day.
This is another one of those stories that really keeps you on your toes, as reality slowly recedes and Mr. Johnson’s REAL purpose on “The Rock” becomes clear……“A Day in The Jungle” - Yet another of Jackson’s tales of a woman seeking a new life and a new identity.
Included in this collection is the story, ‘Louisa, Please Come Home,’ which is one of my all time favorite short stories.
Thinking this was an actual novel, I was surprised when I started to find it was actually a compilation of an unfinished novel (only a taste of what had been completed before Shirley Jackson's death), 16 stories, and three essays.
The short stories are classic Jackson - I had forgotten that prior to reading The Haunting of Hill House I had read several short stories by her, and reading Come Along With Me reminded me just how powerful her stories can be.
When Jackson writes about hauntings or murders you can pretend that you are reading about the unusual. You don't have that luxury with these short stories. Here the quotidian cruelties, the pettiness, the dishonesty and selfishness of ordinary people are not softened by the distracting gloss of insanity and horror.
These stories are mixed. Some of them, like the grippe one, are funny. Family funny.But others are so close to a psychosis perception that they are chilling. When meant to be just descriptive event or period or place scenarios? Or not. One day on a bus, or conversations with the boardinghouse lady etc. Remembering a day with a friend. Husband or nanny known nostalgia. And most of those are bordering on not just supernatural or "medium seer" skills but clearly dwell too in hallucination experience territory.She could write a scary tale. I wonder if all were meant to be?
A short story collection published posthumously by Shirley Jackson's husband.
The concept of the story captivated me.
Olivia Paloma.
I have always liked the name Olivia and Paloma is the name of a nearby street.
Had she completed this work I am certain it would have been one of her best works.
There is another short story in this collection about a young girl who runs away from home and makes a new life.
Kind of makes one wonder about Shirley Jackson's interest in creating a new self.
Leftovers, but of the best possible sort.
Be careful when someone invites you to their house during the summer holidays.
As for her previously work, I can highly recommend "The Haunting of Hill House", "We Have Always Lived in the Castle", and "The Lottery and Other Stories".This volume is a mishmash collection including some lectures/essays, a partially finished novel, and various short stories.Come Along With Me -- This is part of a novel that Ms. Jackson was working on when she died (at the way too young age of 48).
The Bus -- 4 stars This is the last short story in the volume and echoes the "lost from home" theme in many of the others.
This isn't horror and reads more like one of Ms. Jackson's cute family stories.
This is a collection of short stories that include an unfinished story because of her death, her most famous story, and lectures where she describes her career.It seems like whenever I read an anthology my rating always ends up being a three star rating.
She does a terrific job with the atmosphere and being cryptic.
It was a little too cryptic for my taste.
This works for her famous story "The Lottery" but often it left me unfulfilled.
I might try one of her novels as maybe I am not "getting it" because of the short story format.
Something is slightly off, the narrator may or may not be mentally ill, there is something dreadful and wrong, but just a little bit, in each of these stories.
Nothing supernatural, or scary, just wrong.
After that, there are lectures and essays, including a very funny one which describes the public's reaction to Jackson's classic short story "The Lottery" first being published in the New Yorker.
The story itself follows that, and then some good, practical advice (originally meant for her daughter) on short story writing.I could not have loved this more.
Not her best collection of short stories but they're ok, it's still Shirley.
I’ve always been a fan of Shirley Jackson’s book “We Have Always Lived in the Castle” and have read “The Lottery” about 20 times already, so it comes to no surprise that after a long hiatus, this short story collection made me excited to be reading again. As always, I loved the creepy, gothic vibes and I loved the characters in each story. My favorite short story was definitely ‘A Visit’, which at the last sentence had me flip right back to the beginning to read over a second time in the same sitting. A solid 5⭐️ read for me!
This collection of shorts stories and essays by Shirley Jackson, compiled by her husband, is a dark gem.
Again, as in many of Jackson's stories, the presence grows seamlessly out of the state of mind of the protagonist.
The Summer People, one of my favorite Shirley Jackson stories, is a perfect example of how Jackson swells the surface tension slowly but surely in the course of a few pages.
Some readers might find this unfulfilling, but I come away from her stories with a sense of the mysterious which can never be dispelled, because she has effectively trapped the mystery whole within the pages of her story, so that it can never grow stale.
The lecture "Biography of a Story" is backstory on Jackson's most famous tale, "The Lottery"--the public uproar and crazy letters demanding an explanation are fascinating, and give pause to the notion that Americans were better read 50 years ago.
Some story standouts: Jackson's trademark small-town paranoia is on display in "The Summer People," hauntings in "A Visit" and "The Rock," and there's the circular nightmare of "The Bus" (one I'd read years ago and couldn't find in other collections).
Although this is a mixed bag, in a way I like it better than the larger collected stories, where too many together start to seem somewhat formulaic.
I love Shirley Jackson's horror.
But her realism?
..Reading these stories and essays felt a little like watching the director commentary on Edward Scissorhands.
I had anticipated fascinating insights into narrative structure, film technology, Edward's psyche, and the subtle art of evoking an honest performance.
What I got was Tim Burton whining about the suburbs for an hour and 45 minutes.This was, more or less, the same thing.But her thoughts on narrative structure are fascinating.
Though they come last in book, I recommend reading the essays first so that you can fully appreciate her craftsmanship.
Not many authors can give me the unfailing sentence-by-sentence pleasure I get from the writing of Shirley Jackson. My only hesitation in reading this unfinished fragment of a novel was that I knew I'd be caught up in her genius, only to be dumped back into the world after a mere thirty pages or so, but those pages were more than worth it. This book also contains a smart, representative selection of Ms Jackson's short fiction and a handful of her excellent essays. Buy it without hesitation, and enjoy it forever after.
I really do enjoy the way Ms. Jackson writes. She can take the most ordinary event and make it interesting just by her descriptions. Unfortunately, I don't always understand her stories, but they certainly give me something to think about. My favorite part of this book is the last section entitled, "Three lectures, with Two Stories". In this section, Ms. Jackson gives great advice to any aspiring writer and makes the story associated with the lecture even more interesting to read.
Linda said if she did say it herself, the ruffles never got limp." --"Louisa, Please Come Home"We never really learn why Louisa (view spoiler)[has run away (since apparently it's not all due to her trouble at college), but I found it easy enough to just focus on what she does tell us (how she made her way) and not think about the family she's left behind-- until the end.
*He looked at me; I must say I like it better when they look at you; a lot of the time people seem t
I liked just about everything, but didn't love it, generally speaking. There were things that interested me a lot--how houses figured prominently in her descriptions and her moods, the lovely backstory on the house in Hill House and how ghosts seemed to be pushing her to write it. But generally speaking, the collection just struck me as interesting and not great.
It makes me think with amazement and determination, how does she _do_ that?
It makes me feel determined to learn to be able to do that.
Like pretty much every other reader of English language books on the planet, I'd already read and enjoyed Jackson's story "The Lottery." Reading this book I'm almost positive I've read most or all of these stories before, but I wouldn't be surprised if they just felt that way.
I also like it when a story or novel seems to have a wide, inexplicable diversion in it.
Jackson preaches against such diversions in one of her essays on writing included at the end of the book.
It occurred to me while reading 'The Beautiful Stranger' that this might be the perfect state in which to empathise with one of Shirley Jackson's better short fictions.The story concerns a young mother who collects her husband from a train station and soon comes to believe that he has been replaced by a total stranger.
But when she's dealing with psychological distress, she's hard to beat.And for fans of Shirley Jackson, one of the essays at the back contains a fascinating insight into the creation of 'The Haunting of Hill House': a time when, she came to believe, 'the ghosts were after' her.Read when fidgety.
Come Along with Me is written in a way that makes me feel that the main character, Angela Motorman, is talking to me face to face, telling me about her adventures and her thoughts, what she decided to do with her life after she buried her husband and her childhood- all in a jovial, cheerful way.Of all the sixteen short stories, I find "The Beautiful Stranger" my favourite of all.
That short story made me wonder whether the main character, Margaret, was widowed or not, if her husband was really her husband or if the stranger really indeed a stranger.
Something disquieting always lurks at the heart of Jackson's prose.
In this collection, Jackson is frequently insistent in overturning our assumptions of the placid and comfortable.
In her stories, hostility resides in scenes of harmony, the disquiet in quiet, and the frightening in the familiar/familial.
Several stories had the effect of a cliffhanger, leaving one wondering what actually happened, but as a reader I found them dissatisfying - because they were just so short, and said too little for even a vague coherent idea to form and frighten.
I am always buying books of short stories.
Lately I have been thinking of Shirley Jackson quite a bit...I do not know why...but I have and what a wonderful break to read this book of short stories along with some non fiction writings included within.Included in this collection is The Lottery, probably her most famous (or infamous) short story.
Many of the other stories are better and more classic in the Shirley Jackson style including Island and The Rock, two stories that left me with the feeling that someone was standing behind me ready to give me a shove.
This collection ranges from Jackson's first published story to the novel she was working on at the time of her death.
Interesting to see that her final protagonist is quite a departure from the usual cast of skinny outsiders; would have liked to read much more about Angela Motorman!I appreciate the recent release of Jackson's works, especially this volume which contained several lectures as well as reprints of letters written to her or The New Yorker after publication of the infamous "The Lottery." I was stunned by the request for the location of the annual lottery as well as permission to go and watch!
