https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10982.Selected_Short_Stories
A great introduction to Faulkner’s genius.
He deserves his reputation.
It is sad that recognition came to him so late after working so long on many books, poems and screenplays.
One has to admire his persistence, but then perhaps writing for its own sake must have been all that mattered, or nearly all.
Faulkner’s short stories are powerful, raising the senses.
Original in style and prose.
He puts us in the mind of a boy effortlessly in two stories and gives us the unmistakable flavor of southern culture in times gone by.
Like Joyce’s Dubliners, I’ll be reading these short stories again.

As a writer and a native of Oxford, Mississippi, I'm expected and required to respect and laud the work of William Faulkner.
I read Faulkner for the same reason I brush my teeth at 3:00 in the morning after returning from a boozy bender on The Square: I know I should do it, for the sake of conforming to community standards, but I'd rather just go to bed.
I don't know why the French liked him so much.
But, I know why Oxford, Mississippi likes him.
When William Faulkner won the Nobel Prize and the Pullitzer prize, it didn't just mean that he was a great and successful man.
Reading, parsing, and internalizing many of these complex stories involved (for me) a lot of work. The powerful representation of southern social and racial hierarchies in several stories ("Dry September," "Red Leaves," "There Was a Queen," "That Evening Sun," "Mountain Victory") was difficult to confront. Among my favorites were "Two Soldiers" and "Race at Morning," which explored human experiences with remarkable sensitivity.
I like his stories about death the best.
Many people who wrote reviews seemed to have decided they liked the book before they read it and even those who didn't seem to like the book still often gave three stars, maybe because who in their "write" literary mind would not love Faulkner, "write"?
I almost gave up on this one about ten times myself.In many cases Faulkner's style made it difficult to follow the story.
This book, however, I did not love or even like.A few reviewers did mention that while they generally love Faulkner, this was not a great collection, so perhaps I need to give him another shot.
I don't remember having read any Faulkner before - I've certainly never read one of his books, but I might have read one or two of his short stories along the way.
This was interesting; interesting enough to make me want to try one of his novels.
But I didn't really like his depictions of middle-aged, unmarried women.
He has what seems to me a very 19th Century view of how being unmarried (and presumably, a virgin), makes a woman twisted and pathetic.
Did Faulkner ever create a sympathetic, strong, intelligent woman in any of his fiction?
The short stories in this book were much easier of a read than a lot of his novels, but some of the stories toward the end got a lot more typical in the Faulkner sense of the word where you had to go back and read a paragraph a 2nd or 3rd time to make sense of it.
All the best short stories are in the first 1/2-3/4 of the book anyway.
He is one of the best writers of gritty Americana, a lot of his stories deal with the worst side of people and if your like me and you love writers like Cormac McCarthy and Charles Bukowski get into him.
I'm not sure if I loved these short stories or I was just overwhelmed with joy that they made more sense than The Sound and the Fury. The stories were well written and very descriptive but I still often couldn't figure out what the point was to the stories. I think that is why I like real books better. Short stories are over so quickly and if you don't get the point they seem like a waste of time.
Some of these stories were amazing and mind blowing, but others weren't that interesting. I know they must have been good to get into this compilation, but I wasn't interested in all of them... maybe that's just me. However, the first few stories were so, so good. Around the middle/end I may have lost focus or the stories just got less current/interesting, I'm not sure.
Greoi şi apăsător. O cavalcadă de emoţii şi reflecţii. Ruperi de ritm, compuneri şi recompuneri derutante. Perspective diverse, toate îndreptăţite de fiecare personaj în parte. Albul, negrul, indianul, metisul; yankeul. Generalii şi soldaţii. Sudul american văzut prin ochii unui sudist bizar.
One of my favorite writers. "Barn Burning" the symbolism and actions of humanity; excellent discussion story. "Rose for Emily" has such passion and desperate romantic notions, it's a look into the depths that people will got to for affection and companionship.
1930)Thousand and One Nights, India/Iran/Iraq/Egypt, (700-1500)The Tin Drum by Gunter Grass, Germany, (b.1927)To the Lighthouse by Virginia Woolf, England, (1882-1941)The Trial by Franz Kafka, Bohemia, (1883-1924)Trilogy: Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable by Samuel Beckett, Ireland, (1906-1989)Ulysses by James Joyce, Ireland, (1882-1941)War and Peace by Leo Tolstoy, Russia, (1828-1910)Wuthering Heights by Emily Brontë, England, (1818-1848)Zorba the Greek by Nikos Kazantzakis, Greece, (1883-1957http://news.genius.com/William-faulkn...http://www.gutenberg.org/
If not, things like unreliable narrators, shifts in perspective and just Faulkner's general "hey reader, you're smart, figure this story out from what I'm giving you" attitude will probably put you off.There's the obligatory Sartoris story (has anyone put all these together in chronological order somewhere?
If it's shocking, that's because Faulkner did not want to whitewash the era's reprehensible racial attitudes.
Maybe it's me... the first several stories were so racist as to be very difficult to get through - a time capsule of a different and disturbing time. After that the stories just seemed unfocused and while I don't doubt there was worth in them, I didn't have the urge to follow the threads and find it. Made it about half way before giving up. I thoroughly enjoyed Faulkner novels when I was in grad school - I wonder if the difference is in the material or me?
Very different from his stream of consciousness novels like "the Sound and the Fury" and for that reason far more easier to read. The stories are very vivid and easy to get dragged into. This collection clearly shows why Faulkner is known for his short stories.
I have always loved Faulkner.
Nobody writes with the intensity of William Faulkner.
I love Faulkner. But, his novels are far superior to his short stories, in my opinion.
Excellent collection. Everyone should read Faulkner. Period.
My favorites: Barn Burning, Two Soldiers & A Rose For Emily. The rest were meh.
Superb writing but grossly racist. Dated but interesting insight into another time and place. Very much in the mind of the characters esp the white males. Very uncomfortable writing from the perspective of native Americans and blacks.
Thoroughly enjoyed "TURNABOUT". Set along the English Channel during WWII" Race at Morning" was also most enjoyable and entertaining
and The Sound And The Fury, but I didn't particularly like this collection of Faulkner's short stories too much.My favorites were Barn Burning, Mountain Victory, A Rose For Emily, and Two Soldiers.The main sticking point for me is that while I appreciate the darkness of Southern Gothic literature - and understand its allegorical nature in the decay and stagnation of the postbellum South - I don't like it being this encompassing.
There's at least one story where a character's name is only mentioned once and it's toward the end.Much like with Faulkner's Southern Gothic darkness, I didn't particularly like or dislike this trait of his, but I found it to be wholly unique and interesting.
اغلب آثار بلند و کوتاه فالکنر، در مورد زندگی، روابط و ماجراهای شخصیت هایی ست که در این منطقه در جنوب مرکزی ایالات متحده زندگی می کنند، منطقه ای که در آن سرخپوستان بومی، سیاهان برده، اربابان دل سنگ، و بسیاری دیگر از نژادها و مردمان ساکن آمریکا زندگی می کنند و نمونه ای ست از آمریکای هم عصر فالکنر.
بسیاری از نویسندگان بعد از فالکنر به این رسم زیبا علاقه نشان دادند و برای خود شهر یا منطقه ای خیالی تاسیس کردند که ماجراهای برخی از آثارشان در آن منطقه می گذرد و شخصیت ها و مشخصات شهر و سرزمین خود را آن گونه که خود تصور می کردند، در اثارشان ارائه کردند.
I first fell in love with William Faulkner from his short stories.
"A Rose for Emily,"how could anyone go wrong possibly reading that?!
By far, the best short story I ever read.
I was amazed by the way that Faulkner sequenced events in "A Rose for Emily." What about "Barn Burning?" Another short story favorite!
His unique writing and use of stream of consciousness made that story remarkable.
I am fascinated by Yoknapatawpha County and love all stories that connect within it.
If you are interested in reading some short stories, definitely read this selection by Faulkner.
It's my first Faulkner book and I was (am) a little frustrated for not catching his prose many times.
Even the vocabulary.Then I went on some articles and guides to read Faulkner and I see that's a common place even for native English speakers, so not being one is most probably not the reason.I read that he was asked about this: Some say they can't understand your writing even after they've read it 2 or 3 times.
Faulkner said: Read it 4 times.
Maybe this not perfect grade, 4 stars out of 5, is rather for me, the reader, than for the book or the author.
an uneven collection of stories - dunno what the logic was behind the selection.
though maybe this is my own personal bias, since i like faulkner best when he's being, well, FAULKNER: excessive, extravagent, and sometimes hilariously overwrought.
i mean, just LOOK at this sentence: "She breathed quietly into the crack through which the voices came now without heat or significance out of that dark and smoldering and violent and childlike vanity of men: 'I reckon you know these when you see them then?'" now THAT'S what i'm talkin' about!!
but sadly, the editors of this volume do not seem to share my opinion.
Modern Library edition. Can't tell what year it was published. Tedious going at times. Faulkner is a very good story teller- but it was so dated. The language and style was hard in places. I think he was writing historically about certain eras. If he wasn't- he was one hell of a racist!. It was down right boring at times. Didn't do much for me. One story- Turnabout- I recognized as a movie I'd once seen. Sure enough- I did some research- and it'd been made into a movie called Today We Live (1933).
Faulkner has a very distinct writing style and may be difficult at times. His symbolism is harder to recognize and interpret. Many say he was a genius. I believe he was a great writer that observed his surroundings well; however, some of the credit he's given is probably undeserved. He was a drunk who could not even keep a job at a post office. Could he have really mastered all the symbolism and trickery? I don't think so. Some aspects of his stories might just be mere observations, not intricate hidden messages...I read Barn Burning and Rose for Emily
