https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156222.Foxfire
The book said a lot about the time and place in which everything took place.
I don't know if that makes sense, as I am writing this in bits and pieces, but it's just something I've noticed a lot lately.The other thing I thought about was Oates' description of Legs' time in solitary, and how well it matched up with this New Yorker article I had just read about the use of solitary in American prisons, and the way depriving prisoners of human contact can twist and break even the most headstrong mind.
Foxfire is the book that impacted me the most in Middle school. Take that as you must, but I'm happy to see that, unlike The Catcher in the Rye, it holds up reading it with adult eyes. Of course, now, 10 years older than the last time I read it, I find issues with some of the characters I loved as a teenager, but I can see a desperation and naivete I couldn't see before. This book is one of many that cements Oates into the the hall of fame of awesome American writers.
Foxfire never says die.I have a Tattoo, based from this Book and the Movie that followed,...that starred Angelina Jolie. ;)It's the story of a group of misfit girls, who fight back. Yes, they are a girl gang, but they aren't the offshoot of a boy gang. They aren't the girls of some local hoods. They are the ones running the show.You are my Heart, Joyce. Foxfire Forever.
If rock'n'roll is your ideal, then this is a book you want to read.
Not that Foxfire deals explicitly with music at any point, but Oates is able to distill that same electricity.The story is set in the 50s, but, except for a few scattered cultural markers, it could just as easily be set in the contemporary moment.
So if people want to debate the realness of her story, go for it; I'll simply say, well, it's real enough.Hard not to fantasize, after reading this book, about what it would have been like to have joined a gang.
If I wasn’t reading this for a book club it would have been a hard DNF at about 30%.
But I’m glad I finished it because it turns out it was fun to discuss it even if it wasn’t fun to read.
The idea sounded good: a girl gang with a charismatic leader running rampant in 1950s upstate New York.
The book is a ‘memoir’ of Maddy Wirtz, a member of the FOXFIRE gang.
Some people at the book club really enjoyed it and I think it probably comes down to whether you’re a plot-driven person or not.
Com este livro senti o que costumam dizer sobre certas bebidas: primeiro estranha-se, depois entranha-se. Comecei de forma lenta, mas termino bem mais "agarrada" a este romance que não segue a estrutura habitual.Personagens fortes, a "Pernas" e a Maddy, não serão facilmente esquecidas.
La gran literatura tiene algo que te cautiva y te conmueve y te calienta los huesos. Así es "Puro fuego".
Avec ce livre, elle signe un hommage fort aux filles et aux femmes, à celles qu'on ne défend pas, à celles qu'on laisse de côté, à celles qui tentent de survivre, seules.
Elle pense et réfléchit par elle-même, elle reste forte, intelligente et déterminée, et elle partage son amour avec toutes ces femmes qui sont ses sœurs, avec tous les déshérités qui sont sa famille, la générosité chevillée au corps.
L'homme apparaît sous un jour peu reluisant, qu'il soit père, membre de la famille ou rival, car la force des filles les écrase et leur fait peur.
Deciden crear una banda de chicas, una sociedad de hermanas de sangre, una hermandad en la que se tomarán la justicia por su mano, se ayudarán las unas a las otras y se darán una razón de ser.
Y la artífice de todo esto, la abanderada será Legs Sadovsky, uno de esos personajes cercanos y misteriosos, un espíritu libre que lucha por los débiles y amenaza a punta de navaja a todos aquellos que se alzan contra ella.
Las locuras de las chicas a veces parecen excesivas, otras meras chiquilladas y algunas actos de justicia en toda regla.
With such a young cast of characters Oates is at full liberty to show the smooth transition between social marginalization in childhood and an adult life that was far from ideal, a life of thievery.
The links between poverty, social marginalization, institutionalization, and crime are clear to those who have experienced them.
Never have I found a work of fiction that combines all these elements into such an enthralling and historically pertinent book.The portrait painted of Legs Sedovosky is so beautiful I wish I had known her.
Her bold confidence rivaled the leaders of the male gangs in town, she was the real thing.
Let Legs inspire you as well and be bold in what you do.
I absolutely loved this book with its great characters of Maddy-Monkey and Legs Sadovsky. Often written in Oates' semi-stream-of-consciousness style (with the attendant lack of punctuation), it takes the reader on a wild adolescent ride with (as always) some points of social commentary along the way. It certainly provides its own irreverant take on "the sisterhood is powerful." As was the case with Oates' "Man Crazy" (though perhaps, I think, a little less so), this book may not be to everyone's taste. But for me, it was perfect.
I read most of the last two hundred pages in a single sitting and can’t remember the last time I finished a book so quickly.
(One scene, in which she unexpectedly discovers sexual power while dressing up as a man for a job interview is one of the most memorable and surreal episodes of the entire book.) Though Foxfire is narrated by the quieter, bookish Maddie Wirtz, it is unquestionably Legs’ story.
That surprised me, since I kept picturing Keira Knightly as Legs Sadovsky while reading the book.) One example of the book’s emphasis on image is the heavenly motifs that pepper the text.
Not quite 4 stars, more 3.5 ish. I liked the movie and then read the book. Ah, back then Angelina was so hot. Between Foxfire, Gia, and Hackers, I was smitten. Now her face annoys me. Go away already, Angelina.Got off on a tangent. I remember the book being decent, if not entirely believable. This "gang of girls" was not intimidating whatsoever imo. And like with the movie, I wanted more overt examination of the queerness.
Was torn between giving this a 3 or a 4... Decided to go with the 4, as it's probably better than this God awful Portuguese translation.
All I could think is that in this place where the people are downtrodden, feel forgotten and neglected, using violence only further ensures that the cycle will continue on.
It worries me that there are those who will read a book like this and misinterpret this as feminism that so many people are working towards; and it isn't.
However ultimately I went with one, because I just wasn't engaged with this book throughout reading it, and was slightly elated once I was done and knew I didn't have to pick it up again.
Bueno, en mi caso me gustan las historias sobre bandas callejeras o de delincuentes callejeros que actúan en solitario (contras, creo que no se me ocurre otro tema del que más haya devorado películas, documentales, y varios libros, contras, de hecho estoy leyendo también Quinquis, maderos y picoletos) y ésta me llamaba la atención por ser una banda callejera de chicas en pleno 1950's (sí, fue publicada en 1993, pero toda la acción transcurre en la década de los 50's).
Really liked this one. It was like an all-girl version of Fight Club, set in 1950s New York. Strong female characters who are determined, and relentless, and stick to their convictions. They are teenagers, so some of their ideas aren't the brightest, but the core of the story is female empowerment in the face of sexism, and going against societal norms.
Foxfire is absolutely riveting and incredible! I was hardly expecting it, but this tale of a 1950's girl gang taking on the world is full of surprises and very impressive.
Just 'eh.' Not as exciting as a book about a girl gang should be.
content-wise, it checks all the boxes - vigilante girl gangs, a fierce heroine, sisterhood, etc - but the stream-of-consciousness narrative style drags, and the plot meanders and explores too many sidestories (all while foreshadowing a big event throughout much of the book).
for sure, the book has its good moments: the narration can be poetic, the characters admirable, and the sidestories endearing.
i loved the rituals of the girl gang and the general combo of fierceness/naivety throughout the story, but at some point it got old.
ultimately, though the story spans several stages of life, many of the characters (except our narrator) felt static and even one-dimensional by the end.
Uma boa supresa! Comprei este livro numa promoção do Pingo Doce sem grandes expectativas, apenas por reconhecer o nome da autora.Gostei da forma como Joyce Carol Oates aborda o assédio com o qual a maior parte das mulheres lida diariamente e a maneira as pode transformar e até isolar ao longo do tempo. A "Pernas" é decididamente das personagens mais interessantes com as quais me deparei recentemente. No entanto, não senti que as outras personagens fossem tão memoráveis quanto ela.Foi uma boa estreia com a escrita de Joyce Carol Oates e quero certamente ler mais da sua extensa obra!
Yo no sé como vine a dar con este libro exactamente, leí el nombre de la autora alguna vez en algún sitio que no recuerdo, sitio pagina virtual, supongo que lo apunte en una de las tantas listas de libros y autores que tengo y que me llevo conmigo hasta la Patagonia pero que nunca saco para leer cuales son los autores o títulos que me interesan, así que en ese sitio donde venden los libros más baratos del mundo, me pille a Joyce Carol Oates y sí, mi memoria es pésima, pero yo quería leer libros de mujeres así que algo quedo en mi cabeza, y no iba con la intención ni medianamente consciente de buscarlo de encontrarlo, porque esos libros de autores mujeres contemporáneas casi no se consiguen y no me lo pensé dos veces y lo compre con otros tantos.Los autores gringos no me llaman la atención, prejuicios pendejos, aunque cada vez la cultura gringa me cae mejor, si mátenme por lo que digo, pero cada vez los entiendo mejor, trabajo para ellos, ellos me pagan y casi todo bien.
Mega fun times
Written for a younger reader, the narrator’s stream of consciousness voice was frustrating but the social justice, girl power theme made it impossible to put down. Loved the final chapters. Wish I had read this in high school.
Como agua. Y más moderno que casi todo lo que leo de normal. Qué bonito.
Many wanted to ban this...girl gangs, sex, love, friendship was all too much for some...my Father made me read it...probably the earliest feminist literature that I read. For that legacy, i am thankful to him and to Joyce Carol Oates.
FOXFIRE proudly develops and promotes a deviousness and misandric personality, and their punk fearlessness is something I immediately and again hopelessly found myself fighting alongside of, especially against the never ending supply of sexist perverted disgusting man pigs they encountered.The fact that this story focuses on a girl gang in a time and place where such things were unheard of, let alone even daydreamed about, is undoubtably the main core of its appeal and awesomeness.
I understand that the sexual abuse and alcoholism was popular with men during the time period but every single man portrayed in the book was that type of man, there would have been a few decent men back then and I think at least one portrayed would have helped this book excel even further with the message being conveyed throughout the story.
Although the run on sentences may sound like a problem, when reading this book it actually helps with the rough and raw side of the story.
At the same time I would suggest it to most people because it sends a strong message about girl empowerment and the story is told exceptionally.
I thought that the way the plot is set up is a little strange.
Characters aren’t just shown as good or bad, everyone seems to be a little bit of both.
Most of the characters are developed in this way, making them all relatable and authentic.This book was sometimes difficult to read, because of the mechanics of the writing.
Overall, I really enjoyed reading Foxfire, and would recommend it for anyone looking for a little bit tougher read that still has some action and excitement to it.
Overall, I liked this book and found the characters believable and the story engaging.I liked Legs and Maddy.
She wanted to bring order to the chaos of her life and to do the same for others like her.
It made sense that other girls in similar situations would be drawn to her, and would be loyal to her, especially Maddy.
I think she was drawn to Legs for many reasons, partly because Legs exuded the female strength her mother didn’t.
It made the girls more real to me and caused me to read with a sense of muddled, teenage-brained urgency.
