https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30934.Black_Mischief
The imaginary state of Azania may be remote, but new Emperor, Seth, has been Oxford educated and is desperate to bring modernity to his confused population.
"I am the New Age. I am the Future" he declares, as his troops are locked in a decisive battle with the usurper Seyid.Do not imagine for one moment that Evelyn Waugh has written this in an attempt to show that Europeans are, in some way, superior to Africa or that they should be involved in running a country they have no understanding of.
Its a hoot from the very first page.
Sustained hilarity from the first page to the last.
'Black Mischief' is the very last word in making fun of colonialism.
This is truly the pillar underlying all the British wit you've ever encountered.Every single page has something to grin over.
What makes it all the more toothsome is knowing how many modern readers are upset and wringing-their-hands over this kind of thing (oh you tragic, scandalized, fan-fluttering Gertrudes and Henriettas..please stay in the drawing-room where you can be safe from books like this).
'Black Mischief' gives you the essence of what it all was, conveys the concise gist of what it was all about.
I have previously really enjoyed 'Scoop', 'A Handful of Dust', and 'Decline and Fall', and had heard good things about this book.
There is also a very funny scene involving a couple of animal rights activists who are misconstrued as being in favour of animal cruelty.Curiously the very best writing occurs right at the end of the book, when the main protagonist, who starts the tale as a shallow socialite, is forced to confront his traumatic experiences, which are brought into sharp relief when he reunites with some "bright young thing" friends.Overall though I was slightly disappointed and would recommend 'Scoop', 'A Handful Of Dust', and 'Decline & Fall' over this book for a newcomer to Evelyn Waugh's work.
Azania is the name of the country...a hot-diggity satire on the modern world which should, I hope, offend the Politically Correct...whose brains went into the cannibal pot. Now, can we pray ?
Your apologists claim that it lampoons everyone, usually adding: "especially the Europeans", but there's a more than a shade of difference between aloof & irrelevant (Sir Sampson et al) and too stupid to civilize (Seth et al).
Basil Seal, your stand-in, is the flattest of all your quasi-protagonists and the narrative lacks any real drive owing to the endless introduction of new characters who never amount to more than a few tossed-off witticisms.Ultimately you had very little to say apart from "Africa is full of n*s and a few deluded Europeans who haven't yet noticed that fact." Somehow, you still made it mostly amusing which is a credit to your talent, if not your empathy.
For one thing, Black Mischief is largely set on the fictional East African island nation of Azania, although most of the characters are Brits.
Second, Waugh actually has a plot that can be neatly summarized; namely that Basil Seal is a bit of a wastrel MP who travels to Azania where he hooks up with the Oxford educated Azanian Emperor Seth, who wants to bring Progressive Soviet-style government to his tribal subjects.
Waugh also makes sure to have a couple of mercenary characters that are frankly interested in Progress because they can make a buck off of it.
As in Waugh’s other books, there is a dark edge among all of the humor.
Staggers back and forth between funny and offensive until it gobsmacks you with its ending.
From the standard of personal enjoyment, I would give this book a negative one star. I disliked and was bored by the "satire", the characters, the entire premise. The only reason I finished Black Mischief was because I was stuck on a plane and this was the only book I had with me. However, gut instinct aside, I recognize this book has its clever moments. It was well crafted. The writing occasionally caught me up with its wittiness and style. A total dud read in some ways, but worth more than one star in others.
What those who object to this book seem to miss is that NO ONE is immune to Waugh's satire. Everybody, apart from poor Seth, going mad amidst the chaos, is mercilessly ridiculed. It seems such a shame to miss the fun of the menu for the ball (with all the vitamin groups covered), and life in the diplomatic compound, for what seems to me to be a knee-jerk reaction.
Totally hilarious but kind of embarassing to read on the bus in Oakland.
Re-read 08-September to 13-September-2016. Revised rating to 4 stars, down from 5. Still very funny, still a great satire, but not 'Amazing'. I read Remote People: A Report from Ethiopia & British Africa 1930-31, an excellent travel book Waugh wrote before Black Mischief, which was clearly mined for information and inspiration in writing this satire. Another recommended read for you: Waugh in Abyssinia (1936). Why not go all the way and read Waugh Abroad: Collected Travel Writing.
As much as I liked Waugh's Scoop I just didn't enjoy this. He writes well but Basil, Seth and Ballon never grabbed me and I found myself bored in and with Azania.
বেশ ঘটা করে শুরু করলেও যত দিন গেছে তত বইটার আবেদন কমে গেলো মনে হয়।সেই দিন যাওয়াকে আপনি বইটা পড়তে পড়তে কেটে যাওয়া সময় বিবেচনা করতে পারেন, ইভলিন ওয়া থেকে আজতক অবদিও বিবেচনা করতে পারেন। সেই তখন ওয়া সাহেবের যে চমক-জাগানিয়া কষমতা ছিলো, আজকের দিনে এসে সেই কষমতা সমভবত আর পূরববৎ জৌলুস ছড়াইতে পারে না। এনার ভাষা যেমন আধুনিক, এত আধুনিক যে নিজের সময়ের মনে হয়, তেমনি গলপটাও খেলে কম, কামড় দেয় কম, তার ফারসীয় বৈশিষটযগুলির এই কয়দিনে ধার কমে গেছে কিছুটা। অনুননত দেশের কষমতাসীনদের নিয়ে খোঁচা, হুঁ, দেখেছি আমরা আরও, য

-Hoy nuestra tarea es mucho más fácil que lo habría sido hace cincuenta años. Si hubiéramos tenido que modernizar entonces un país, habríamos tropezado con la monarquía constitucional, la legislatura bicameral, la representación proporcional, el sufragio femenino, la judicatura independiente, la libertad de Prensa, los referéndums...-¿Qué es todo eso? -preguntó el emperador.- Unas cuantas ideas que han dejado de ser modernas.
The opening paragraph below could just as easily be put in the mouth, slightly adapted, of any pompous ruler: "["]We, Seth, Emperor of Azania, Chief of the Chiefs of Sakuyu, Lord of Wanda and Tyrant of the Seas, Bachelor of the Arts of Oxford University, being in this twenty-fourth year of our life, summoned by the wisdom of Almighty God and the unanimous voice of our people to the throne of our ancestors, do hereby proclaim..."" - p 3 ""Do hereby proclaim amnesty and free pardon to all those of our subjects recently seduced from their loyalty, who shall during the eight days subsequent to this date return to their lawful allegiance.
I tend to quite like these small country political stories and have read quite a few but this stuff tends to be a backdrop to the main plot.These elements arn't used here as the setting for the magical realism of One Hundred Years of Solitude, or the hippie utopianism of huxley's Island, nor the personal dramas of South Wind or Palace Without Chairs.
It reads at times more like a moviescript than a novel.
There is no greater plot, its just this sketch of the life of the island through the eyes of various random elements.
If you've ever read something and taken offence at an unpolitcally correct comment and thus been unable to finish said book - please don't read this.
The only thing that can be said is that Waugh is fair and no culture, ethnicity or group is free.
Everyone is mocked.There are some funny moments, funny comments and utterly non-pc names (General Connolly's wife for one), and there were a couple of points where I laughed out loud.
But as a whole, this isn't my favourite Waugh (although the only other one I've read is Scoop) and now I've finished the book I just feel...
Сблъсъкът между цивилизацията и варварския свят и интригите в борбата за трона са често повтаряни епизоди в историята, преексплоатирани в литературата и трудно биха предизвикали интерес или изненада.
Императорът печата камари собствена валута и планира с размах всяко прочетено в книга чудо на цивилизацията, но прогресът се оказва почти невъзможна работа.
Скучни англичани с типичните си снобски навици и разговори, любопитни и клюкарстващи французи, хитри арменци, живеещи от и за покупко-продажбите, богати араби, индийски търговци и всякакви случайно попаднали там хора от различни етноси и религии понякога се занимават с интриги и сделки, а в останалото време си проспиват тихо и сладко живота покрай местните канибали, които императорът неуморно цивилизова - почти успешно.
Slightly more fun than being stuck in a lift with Boris Johnson.
Evelyn Waugh’s Black Mischief, published in 1932, recounts the unfortunate attempts of Seth, sovereign of the mythical East African Empire of Azania, to modernise his dominions.
Black Mischief has been accused of racism but in fact the British and French are lampooned every bit as mercilessly as the Africans.
In other books Waugh gleefully ridiculed Americans as well (like the evangelist Mrs Melrose Ape in Vile Bodies) so it’s reasonable to say that no race and no nationality was safe from Waugh’s vitriolic wit.
Although Waugh was a devout catholic religion also comes in for some rough handling in this novel.
Black Mischief is a ruthlessly witty sendup of modernization, colonization, uncivilized culture, civilized culture, and almost everything else.
As one of Waugh's earlier novels, it lacks the miraculously beautiful prose of later writing (and I don't just mean Brideshead; even his mature comedies ascend into poetry at times) though there are glimmers of the greatness to come.
It is, however, polished and wildly funny.
I have always admired Waugh's knack for absolutely reveling in black humor without morally tainting his own narrative voice, making the fates of his characters (both major and minor) into a judgment on their conduct and comedy for the audience simultaneously.
I’m starting on the sleeves.” “Envoy, you are clever …”’Black Mischief was Waugh’s third novel and, in the words of Sykes, ‘fully maintained and even enhanced the high position he had reached as a comic artist.’ Sir Samson is one of a brilliantly imaged cast of characters; the newly-crowned Emperor of Azania, Seth, is another.
The consequent tension between the Emperor and his General creates a pre-revolutionary atmosphere in which, to the horror of Sir Samson, British citizens attempt to seek refuge in the Legation.
Not for me unfortunately. A laborious read full of unnecessarily complicated and arduous language. The characters were in no way compelling enough to negate the fact that the plot was exceptionally boring.
Black Mischief by Evelyn WaughInstead of a spoiler alert- this could give you little information about Black Mischief and some idea about the thoughts of this reader when encountering the African emperors and characters of this book.There is a tendency in all amateur reviewers to go beyond writing about someone else’s book and put in script personal emotions and feelings.
One such path is naming streets after his preferred characters, and it is a good thing the narrator states that Seth is not into psychoanalysis.He has a tank, which the emperor thinks will determine his victory upon his enemy, even if the tank is obsolete.The primitivism of the foreigners can also be “admired“: at one point, the reader is shocked to learn that the British envoy aka charge d’affaires has very little idea who Seth or indeed anyone is.
He remorselessly satirises colonial officials who have no idea what is going on in the countries they are supposed to be administering, inept Western educated African leaders attempting to modernise their countries, corrupt opportunistic businessmen and even the 'bright young things' back home who don't want to hear his travel stories.
He doesn't satirise ethnic African traditions, although we might feel rather uncomfortable with his portrayal of them nowadays.This is mainly the story of Basil Seal and Emperor Seth, although the minor characters provide a lot of the humour.
But imperial prejudice against other races is not his target, sadly.The story is essentially about a rich and idle young man who is looking for some purpose in life and ends up on a whim going to a small African country, called Azania, because someone he knew slightly at Oxford - a caricature of the African coming to the centre of civilisation and returning home with patronisingly comical ideas about bringing it to his homeland - has become ruler there.There are some funny bits, when he is talking about the stupidity and empty-headedness of the expats.
I lost my track somewhere in Azania a couple of weeks ago.Now it's all darkness around me.
What I can recall is that this novel has one of the most exhilarating and sarcastic beginnings I have ever found.
A darker spot in the darkened dark out of Debra Dowa.
It looks like the beginning of Chapter Three:'Two days later news of the battle of Ukaka...'These words will lead me back to the track.
How are we meant to stay heart-healthy if we can’t have a go at anyone?"The shoeshine man later died, although not before joining the Lumpenproletariat, which (I suspect) was a personal life-long dream of his.I believe that any of the so-called product of our doltish incapacity for defining who or what we are simply that: Product.
Goods purchased or sold not based upon the merit of man but rather current position or makeup within societal strife.And I have a phrase entitled 
February makeup
that I use to define any certain someone deeply mired in personal stagnation.
I love Waugh because he is hilarious and because he is a master of his craft.
I am reading all of his novels in sequence right now.
The blacks are presented as intrinsically inferior to the whites, intellectually and morally.
The whites are silly and oblivious, the blacks are stupid and corrupt.
Waugh's gifts did not include compassion and empathy, and it would have taken a great deal of both for him to transcend his racist, imperial assumptions.
That doesn't take away from the brilliance of this novel as satirical fiction, but we can't pretend this book is something other than unenlightened.
The book is set in a fictional East African country.
Waugh makes fun of clueless English colonialists, the way even the smartest of them don't understand what they're interfering with and ultimately do more harm than good, even to themselves.
He makes fun of scheming French imperialists who blithely instigate massive destruction, of querulous Arab and self-serving Indian settlers, of African leaders who futilely try to modernize a society ill-suited to the foreign innovations imposed on it.
But when he repeatedly refers to the native Africans as woolly-headed cannibals, when he depicts them as congenitally unsophisticated, it's hard not to write off everything else, too.
