https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263145.Vampire_Knight_Vol_1
Random babbling...Beautiful love/suspense/horror/action story, lots of plot twists, a very very good vampire story. Very addictive, kick ass action! If you're interested in vampires you'll definitely love it!I'M TEAM ZERO BTW!!!
Who needs Yuki?Okay, so I watch plenty of anime, but this is actually the first manga I've ever read. I liked it very much, BUT here it comes...some parts really ticked me off, like:-The lack of action.-Yuki. She was  such a  a bit of a goody-two-shoes. Which annoyed the hell out of me.-The story tended to get a bit melodramatic.-The mystery parts could've been done so much better.-The cheesy dialogue.-Blood drinking being depicted as "erotic." Yeah, try having someone's teeth stuck in your neck
Who needs Yuki?Okay, so I watch plenty of anime, but this is actually the first manga I've ever read.
I liked it very much, BUT here it comes...some parts really ticked me off, like:-The lack of action.-Yuki.
Which annoyed the hell out of me.-The story tended to get a bit melodramatic.-The mystery parts could've been done so much better.-The cheesy dialogue.-Blood drinking being depicted as "erotic." Yeah, try having someone's teeth stuck in your neck.Basically, the plot didn't impress me and I wasn't exactly blown away by the dialogue.
I also LOVED the artwork, I think I enjoyed looking at Zero and Kaname more than anything, really.
Hace como dos o tres años me vi por primera vez el anime de Vampire Knight en donde me encariñé mucho con Zero y un tiempo después lo volvi a ver y esta vez me encariñé fue con Kaname.
Ahora si les comentaré un poco que me pareció este Tomo número 1.Cuando comencé a leer Vampire Knight me di cuenta de que habían adaptado muy bien el anime que basaron en esta historia, ya que los capitulos son exactamente iguales al manga.
Zero and Yuuki are best friends, childhood friends are guardians protect the Night Class' identity: they are actually vampires.
Kaname Kuran is their leader and Yuuki's madly in love with him since he saved her life from a vicious vampire and Yuki thinks he's(Kaname) is the beginning of her life.
It will never be able to go back to the way it was before" "The next time you open your eyes the world might have already changed""I will cover and hide the part of my heart that wants to cry and scream" "Being like this makes me feel like we've returned to the old days somewhat.
Again... Found this series by Netflix... The bane of my existence. BUT I LOVE IT ANYWAYS! Even with all of the... sexual tension...as well as the love-triangle.
The night school students are just a little bit different than everyone else...because they're vampires!
Still, this particular series seems to have more emotional tension and more engrossing characters than some of the vamp manga with a central triangle that's far more sexy than silly.Yuki Cross and Zero Kiryu are the designated Guardians and eternal odd kids out at the school at the heart of this series.
Yuki's growing friendship with Kaname, a pureblood vampire who once saved her life causes a lot of tension with the vampire-hating Zero.
Well Netflix has ruined me and I'm totally fangirl crushing on this anime ... so of course I had to pick up the manga too <3Um ... I'm obsessedZero is my love 💕❤💕❤💕Ok so I'm by far NOT the authority on the intricacies of manga critique here but um .... I'm obsessed so I'm giving it the 5 star rating because I can dammit! The art is beautiful and I love the storyline and the tension and ... yep I'm addicted 😏
Since I'm fairly new to Manga I'm not sure if they're all like this. The dialogue was awkward and stoic. The characters all fell flat, except for Zero. I think he's the only one I liked. As for Kaname and Yuuki, GOD! Those two are boring as heck. Every time they have a conversation I can't help but cringe. I'm not really sure where this is going but all the reviews I see are telling me to quit while I'm ahead, so I'm not sure what to do.
I have been reading manga ever since I was in high school, the first manga I ever read being “Ranma .” Well, just recently, I have stumbled upon another manga series called “Vampire Knight” (not to be confused with Richelle Mead’s Vampire Academy series) which is created by Matsuri Hino and it is about how a young high school girl named Yuki realizes about the existence of vampires at the private school, Cross Academy, while attending to her duties as one of the Guardians of the academy. “Vampir
I think that all the characters in this volume are awesome, but my favorite characters would have to be Yuki Cross, Zero Kiryu and Kaname Kuran.
But Yuki is not the only character who makes this volume truly worth reading as Zero Kiryu and Kaname Kuran are also awesome characters as they are polar opposites from each other.
It's confusing, more things pop up just to keep the story going, it's long and boring, the girl can't make up her mind, the guy can't decide if he's evil or not, the other guy (who I actually like) should go find someone better, the heroine and her brother can die for all I care.
2.4/5 starsWhen I first began this manga it was a no-kidding: 5 stars manga.Then it became 4 then 3 then 2 then 1 then 'if only I could give it a zero' then 2 then 2.4/5 and now, years after it became a 2 star and shredded and killed off all of my excitement, obsession, intrigue, addiction, and love, hype, fascination, and support, it's back to a three.
I heard this was a "Twilight" Manga, and in a way it was, but I was really happy that there were tons of differences! At Cross Academy you can find both humans and vampires. The vampires go to class at night and are called the Night Class, however the humans (Day Class) don't know that the Night Class are vampires, they just know that they are extremely pretty.Yuki Cross who can be seen as the main character was strangely not my favorite - she was a bit irritating. I like the brooding Zero Kiry
At Cross Academy you can find both humans and vampires.
The vampires go to class at night and are called the Night Class, however the humans (Day Class) don't know that the Night Class are vampires, they just know that they are extremely pretty.Yuki Cross who can be seen as the main character was strangely not my favorite - she was a bit irritating.
Although I didn't love it to death, I would give the next volume a try, just because I hear great things about where this series is going!
Even if you’ve never read manga before or if you’re not generally an anime fan, this story definitely has all the goodies vampire fans will swoon over.The setting is Cross Academy boarding school, a school for both regular teenagers and vampire teenagers.
He is the other school prefect and the only other person apart from Yuki and the headmaster who know about the existence of vampires and their presence at Cross Academy.
A flashback teaches us that Yuki was raised by the headmaster of Cross Academy after she was brought there by Kaname on the faithful night he saved her from the vicious vampire that tried to kill her.
In the end, after I've read all the chapters of Vampire Knight in existence, I can't really tell whether or not I liked it.On one hand, (view spoiler)[my pairing got together.
The side characters are likewise only developed enough to serve the story's purpose, that is to say, not very much.I like the series, and I really like Zero, but both Yuki and Kaname fell flat as characters to me.
So, in conclusion, a good story, interesting premise, but after the anime ended, all feminism went to hell.One more thing: I don't know if it was because I was reading an online version, but some of the plot points were wordy and confusing.
I loved the story line, the art work was amazing, and the ending had me driving to the bookstore to pick up the next installment.In Vampire Knight we meet two groups of students who attend Cross Academy.
There is the Day Class, where Yuki Cross and Kiryu Zero serve has Guardians, and the Night Class that is full of vampires.
She was adopted by the headmaster of Cross Academy and guards the Day Class alongside Zero, who has secrets that haunt him and his existence.
Great first installment and I have the second manga in this series at the ready.
I saw this popping up on several lists of "must read manga" so I decided to give it a try.At first I thought it would be a typical teenage vampire story.
In brief, this is the story of an exclusive private school.
Normal students attend the day classes, vampires attend the night classes.
The day class does not know vampires exist so they don't know the night class (full of gorgeous, hot guys) is all vampires.
I'm not a teenage girl but it didn't matter.
I really got into the story and I plan to continue on.
This was a fun vampiric manga set in a school where there are "day students" and "night students".
Yuki is a cute heroine and there is what looks like a love triangle (groan, I know) possibly forming between her, the gorgeous and mysterious night school class president who saved her life years earlier and her tormented friend Zero who is keeping many secrets.
I'm rooting for Zero but who knows what will happen?
It is in black and white and because several of the characters have very similar features I was a bit confused at times who was who but this is pretty common in most of the manga I read.Thanks for sharing this one with us chucklesthescot!
This delightfully trashy manga wallows in all sorts of vampire cliches (see: gorgeous and mysteriously broody vampires, bloodsucking as sexual innuendo). I was spoiled for one plot point before reading this, and I was amused to find it in chapter 2 or 3; normally you'd have to slog through volumes of a series for something so emo-tastic. Seriously, this is perhaps the least subtle work of fiction I have read in ages. I will definitely have to read more of this.
Poetic. Every line is a story itself. It could take pages and pages to describe just one picture and yet wouldnt be enough. So little to be said, so many to be thought. Each character has a backround and each act hides a reason combining the perfect dark and diisrupted world that this manga conveys. A work of Art.
Note to self: stop reading books about love triangles.
Terrific art, interesting plot, but slow-moving.There are two schools within a school: during the day, human kids attend class; during the night, the vampires sit in the schoolrooms. Some of the kids know, but most do not. Yuki Cross is a security guardian who protects day students from the night students. Zero Kiryu is a guardian as well, but he hates vampires, unlike Yuki. However, Zero’s life will take an unexpected turn!
Before she is bitten she is saved by another vampire named Kanami Kuran.Fast forward ten years, and Yuki is a young student at Cross Academy.
Regardless of their feelings, they must work together under the direction of the headmaster who hopes this "experiment" will one day allow humans and vampires to co-exist peacefully.Zero, however, is harboring a secret that once revealed will not only endanger Yuki but may also break the fragile balance of peace.I was instantly pulled into this story from page one.
So. I don't particularly like love triangles, or vampire romances, or heroines that are supposed to be competent but aren't really. But it's very popular, and the art is incredibly stylish (though I don't really like the way the eyes are drawn) so I gave it a shot. Twice. It isn't badly done, but it just hits too many dislikes for me to get really into it. And after two tries, I think I can leave it be now.
Storia molto leggera e a tratti divertente. Si è già formato un triangolo amoroso che devo dire non è troppo fastidioso come spesso capita! E si..pure io team Zero!
Well I didn't see that coming.I picked this up for very cheap at a used bookstore, and I am so happy I did!I have recently got into manga & again, so happy that I did!This was a great first volume!
I am so interested in getting into this world!I enjoy the day & night classes, I enjoy the idea that it is very top secret.I can see the future problems manifesting (view spoiler)[seeing as two people already fed off one of our main characters.
(hide spoiler)]I'm getting the rest from the library very soon!
It's the first manga from Hino Matsuri Sensei that i read and i love her artwork!
The story is about Yuuki, a girl from Day Class, and Zero, her classmate and also a guy who brought up as her sibling after saved from vampire attack, also Kaname, Yuuki's crush and a guy from Night Class.
Night Class has a secret that Yuuki and Zero should protect from another classmates in Day Class.
Night Class is the class full with vampires!My favorite character is Zero.
If you love vampire story, you should check out this manga or watch the anime though i prefer the manga!
Wirklich cooler Manga, vielleicht kommt meine Liebe für Vampire ja zurück :D
Me ha parecido un primer volumen muy original y en el que ocurren bastantes cosas. El único pero que le sacaría es que a veces me parecía que repetían los mismos pensamientos.
Plot - 4/5Character - 3/5World Building - 3/5Art - 4/5Cover - 3/4Overall Rating - 3.4/5
This review is for volumes 1 through 10.I want to preface this by saying I’m not a big manga reader or anime watcher.
Zero came to live with the Headmaster and Yuki at age 11 when his family was killed by a vampire.The Night Class was established a little while after that with Kaname heading the pacifist front.
He has the clout to do so because he’s a rare pureblood vampire, kind of like a prince among them.The back and forth between Kaname and Yuki and Zero are angst-ridden, tense, and hold multiple layers, and I love every one of them!
Kaname obviously cares for Yuki, although you don’t learn why until volume 8 or so.
This was a really interesting first volume. Wasn't blown away by it or anything, but I'm definitely intrigued to read more.
