https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139244.Assignment_in_Brittany
***2018 Summer of Spies*** How is it that I have never run into Helen MacInnes before this? If I ever do another reading project featuring espionage literature, I will definitely be adding more of her work to the reading list!The premise is an unlikely one—after a WWII battle, someone notices an injured Breton man who looks just like an active English spy. Not only does this spy Hearne uncannily resemble the disabled man, but he also speaks Breton (a pretty obscure Celtic language) and has stud
If I ever do another reading project featuring espionage literature, I will definitely be adding more of her work to the reading list!The premise is an unlikely one—after a WWII battle, someone notices an injured Breton man who looks just like an active English spy.
He spends a great deal of time interviewing the Breton fellow, learning as many details of his life in his small village as possible and then is parachuted in, to report back on Nazi activity in the area.I have to hand it to MacInnes, she handles this rather unlikely scenario so skillfully that I soon gave up my reservations and plunged wholeheartedly into the story.
***.MacInnes was a very popular writer of spy novels – up there with Ambler and Greene in her day.
He was a resident of a small town in Brittany, but is now out of the picture and confined to a hospital in England where he faces a long period of recovery from his battle wounds.
Hearnes is prepped for the job of espionage he must take on, and is parachuted into France near Corlay’s home town.
Once the required information is gathered, he must get it back to England.
Helen MacInnes was a major author from the 40's to the 80's.
Her books were always looked forward to and were consistent best sellers.
There is no better author of the dramatic spy novel than MacInnes.
The book was published in 1940 (her second) and was made into a move in 1942 starring a French actor whose name I cannot now recall.
The suspense builds throughout and leads to a somewhat ambiguous ending.
But remember, in 1940 the ending of the war was ambiguous.
If you have not read MacInnes I would recommend "Decision At Delphi", "North From Rome", and "The Salzburg Connection".
Good spy novel set in WWII
I have been reading an old musty edition of this book, which I borrowed from a friend because it appears to be out of print.
It is a spy story in which the main character impersonates a Frenchman, whom he resembles, and takes up residence at his home in Brittany.
The Frenchman's mother is shortsighted and much is made of this -- unncessarily, in my view.
Reading one of her books is quite a sensual experience, which makes it especially frustrating to have to read a foetid old cast-off from a friend.
The first scenes of jumping into Brittany were used as training for parajumpers in the military. Great story!
The plot follows a British agent, our hero Hearne, who is discovered to be the spitting image of a guy who had been picked up wounded in a battle with Axis forces, one Bertrand Corlay.
It was one of those ‘scenes’ that seems to represent the whole book when you think back on the story as a whole.MacInnes knew spy craft very well, and if you were sharp you picked up some good observational advice.
Assignment in Brittany was a thrilling tale with a unique plot, and gave me insights into the French condition I would not have had without.
Even though my 1967 DELL paperback copy calls this book a "haunting novel of romance and suspense" on its front cover, it is most definitely a dyed-in-the-wool spy novel.
I did further research while reading the book, and found claims that the U.S. military actually used the novel to train Allied personnel who would be working covertly in German-occupied France.
Ms. Macinnes' talents must have been abundant to pen a novel that was apparently so true to life for the times.
DELL must have been trying to sell more copies of the novel to claim it as a romance on the front and back covers.
With the Nazi occupation of northern France, the underground resistance is forced to sneak about in the dark. Hearne, British soldier whose French is excellent, is sent to spy as part of that resistance, and he finds help in hiding with the beautiful Anne. Danger abounds. Action, adventure, suspense -- a gripping story here, memorable in itself and for the skill with which it is told. Helen MacInnes seems to have passed from the scene, but her spy novels are well worth looking up, and this one could be best of all in my view.
This was something my husband picked up at a flea market and I expected very little from it. It turned out to be an excellent, absorbing and well-paced story. And it gave a great sense of the fear and confusion in the late days of the second world war in France, where the protagonist goes undercover to gather intelligence in occupied France.
I am headed to Brittany in May. So the title had me from the get go.I loved reading about the old towns and kept my map handy. Unfortunately of course the smaller villages are imaginary.But I mean to track down what I can. And the history of the Breton language is interesting.A good old fashioned WW2 intrigue.
I am a huge fan of Helen MacInnes. /Assignment in Brittany/ is one of her early works set during WWII. One thing I think MacInnes excels at is writing from the male perspective. Add in a tense espionage mission, a "Tale of Martin Guerre" case of assumed identity, and love and you have a story with real stakes. The uncertain ending just makes it especially poignant. Highly recommend!
Iloved that this book was written ABOUT the war DURING the war
Her work holds up very well, considering the significant changes since she wrote.Assignment in Brittany was her second novel, set during World War II and published in 1942 -- very much of-the-moment in her day.
MacInnes novels are easier to find because of Titan Books, and that's nice.
Their editions are filled with bizarre punctuation, misspelling and downright errors, which is not so nice for the reader.Good companions for Assignment in Brittany would be Brat Farrar, by Josephine Tey, and Rogue Male, by Geoffrey Household.
Brat Farrar is also a dead ringer who sets out to take the place of a missing son and has to figure out the other man's life in context.
Oh, how I am enjoying my ramble through these old classic spy thrillers!This is my fourth by Helen MacInnes, and what I particularly love about her is how completely she immerses the reader in the setting.
In this one, we get a close-up view of traditional Breton life as it was in the 1930s/40s and it has an unmistakable ring of authenticity to it.I also appreciate how the 'old-timey' authors in the thriller genre (and a handful of contemporary ones) give themselves time to let stories and characters develop, for action and tension to build naturally.
Damn, Helen, WTF with that ending?!
I am on a classic thrillers of the genre kick right now (escapism?) - these early HM books are amazing.
There is just no comparison between this and most modern thrillers - this is amazing.
But the thing that is always in the back of my head is the view that MacInnes, who was there in Europe in the 1930s, and was writing these books BEFORE AND DURING WORLD WAR TWO, had of the build up and the events.
Hiking all over Europe during the rise.
It was, as then, a wonderful read: good, old fashioned espionage.
It says a great deal about a book when the major spy organizations in the UK made this book required reading for their agents.
MacInnes' husband was in MI6, and her book was so well done that the government suspected her husband of revealing classified information to Helen.
He was called before a congressional committee to reveal how he got his submarine information.
The book is so well written that there is tension/suspense on nearly every page.
Apparently I am not alone in my love of her books.
Helen MacInnes starts with the hoary cliche of the spy who just happens to be a dead ringer for the man he is assigned to impersonate to tell a frequently involving story that too often depends on unlikely coincidence to move the plot along.
The novel is strongest when it is depicting the grim camaraderie that arises among an occupied people.
I admire the way MacInnes didn't include action just for the sake of it, but nevertheless I sometimes felt that something was needed to break up the interminable tramps through the countryside.
There's a sweet love story and the whole thing ends on a nicely ambiguous note.
I read this years ago and its characters (especially the pair brought together in a strange romance) have always remained with me. Reading it now, I better appreciate the author's perception of her time -- the uncertainty of the war's trajectory in 1942 -- and now I understand the metaphor of the ending. I feel desperate for a sequel or an epilogue to learn what happened to the main characters a few years later when the war finally ended.
I never thought I was much of a spy/adventure reader, but I'm hooked because of Helen MacInnes. This is the third book I've read of this author and I'm sure I'll work my way through all of them....sort of like potato chips. Each of MacInnes' characters are well defined to a point where I felt personally connected with them. Suspenseful to the very end.
Imagination !As I sat in my chair reading ,the room vanished and my concerns rose as I was not sure how we got into the predicament and how to get out safely. That is the beauty of the mind and the author. You are transported without any reason to the action and situations transfixed by only the use of words. Great read!
Fascinating account of an English spy in Brittany during WWII. The attention to detail necessary to pull off impersonating a known resident of the town is astounding. Could this really happen? I don't know, but it was a page turner.
I first read this book in the late 60s or early 70s and I enjoyed it as much this time as then. The ending was a bit schlocky but the rest of the story was riveting! Glad to see an old favourite author can continue to entertain!
What a fascinating read, a real time capsule of a book! It was very informative and interesting throughout. My only complaint was that the main female characters, Anne and Elise, were very stereotypical. Slightly disappointing from a female author, but otherwise an excellent read.
A classic spy novel set in WWII. MacInnes writes intelligently, letting the mysteries and tiny observations of human behavior drive the plot rather than complicated conspiracy motives. Drifted toward a melodramatic ending but pulled itself out in the final moments.
Engrossing and enjoyable spy story about a British spy in Nazi-occupied Brittany.
one of the best books about an undercover agent in wwii... a great story; written while WW II was ongoing in Europe.
Why must sappy endings ruin otherwise excellent sneaking-running-shooting spy novels?
Intersting story. It was kind of a bummer at the end.
Fun AND clean!!!
