https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/885609.The_Journal_of_a_Disappointed_Man_A_Last_Diary
I had a feeling this would be my favorite book before I even read it.
Now that I'm done, I can say that it certainly is in the top 3.The thing about it is that Barbellion is me.
On every page of this book he does something that I would do, says something that I would say.
Barbellion is here with all his contradictions and mood swings, so seeing him is so much like seeing oneself.
It's wild to see that a young man in London during WWI lived a life not too unlike a young man today.Read some very well-selected excerpts at quotidiana.org.
The journal of a talented biologist as he grows into a man and becomes more and more aware of the disease that cripples him and will eventually kill him. It sounds like a downer, and in some ways it is, but his humor and vital interest in life of all kinds sustains it. He has an excellent way with words, as well. It's hard to find, but read it if you can.
As well-written as reviews said. A tale by a man disappointed both by the brevity and outcomes of his life. But not morose. So witty and sometimes amusing. And a great picture of his age and education.One felt close, and knowing his outcome, and one's own, comforted somehow.
The title of the book I read by Barbellion is Enjoying Life and Other Literary Remains. This book purchased at Daedalus may be out of print. Delightful.
Book of my heart. Review...impossible.(update highlights. sometime.)
From Samuel Pepys to Adrian Mole, fictional or real, I adore the intimacy and the insight found between the covers of a journal.
This one is particularly poignant, because the writer, a passionate young scientist, died from MS at age 28.
The scope of subject is huge: death; sex; science; religion; art, and while the author doesn't offer startling new insights, he is honest and does not spare himself.
Age 15: "I am writing a paper on the life cycle of insects.
Have decided not to write on what cats do all day." Final entry: "Miserable.
One of the very few works of memoir or literature that accurately and subtly describes the experience of multiple sclerosis. The author dies of the disease—back in the nineteen-teens, death from MS was swift and often associated with infection—but the arc of this book is in his coming to terms with being intellectually gifted and unable ever to fulfill his potential.
I think maybe my expectations were too high with this book. I got a bit bored with the self-obsession. I suppose that's what I should have expected with a diary. It's well-written and interesting and has some great observations and clever ideas, but I just couldn't be bothered to finish it.
One of the greatest books ever written
Sorrow never was a good point to start. Here it is.
A daily journal. This man suffered from multiple sclerosis in the 1920's, and died before the age of 30. Very good read in parts.
