https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25843420-the-atlantis-gene
The book felt like reading a movie script instead of a novel.
The scenes are too rushed at times, and the scenery abruptly changes, too fast (just like present day TV action series), and so many chapters just makes it more cluttered and confusing.
It was at times a pain to read through it and that is never the case with a good book.I would say, if you value your time, do not read this book.
It would make a great movie, but is a bad book in my opinion.
Overly ComplicatedLately, I've had pretty good luck with exploring different genres.
Listening to the audiobook was a confusing endeavor, despite the fact that the narration was actually pretty good.
Every time I thought I had a good grasp of who everyone was, and what their motives were, something new would come to light and I'd be lost again.
Somewhere along the way, it just became too much to keep up with.Adding to the confusion, the story seemed to jump from person, place and time, with no clear transition.
I spent most of my time completely lost.If you're a fan of Sci-Fi/Action movies, this might be the type of story you'd enjoy.
I want to start out by stating that I love this book.
I could easily suspend my disbelief for the duration, and the characters were likeable/unlikeable when they were supposed to be.I love Sci-Fi, which is the general category that I would put this book in, with a secondary classification as mystery/thriller.
I am not a scientist or a geneticist, so I can't speak to the accuracy of the science, but it was good enough that it satisfied me as a person who works around it every day.
I think for the average lay person the science will be equally convincing.
This book has a promising *suggestion* of a plot, which is why I gave it two starts.
It is written like a cheap action movie, not like a book, and feels as if Mr. Riddle never had any beta readers for this story.
It seems Mr. Riddle was inspired by Dan Brown, but even Dan Brown started out simple, with few characters, which is not the case here.
You will find dozen of one-chapter characters that are there just to die, and others that are as shallow as a sheet of paper Mr. Riddle probably didn't even use to plan them out.
Ugh. I read porn where women had more character than in here.
Honestly.The plot had everything to attract me: genetic experiments, Greek myths and lost cities, evil Nazi conspiracies, even references to my own country.
Yet, for the life of me, I cannot figure out how an author could accumulate all these fantastic ideas and deliver such a horrible story.
At numerous times, all I wanted to do was stop reading and delete the book from my kindle, but I kept going, hoping the author would redeem himself and give me something to cheer for.
Alas, that moment never came, and I was left a very dissatisfied reader.It's beyond sad because the plot was genuinely very promising.
The plot is painfully contrived to the point where it seems the author just tosses in mystery and science fiction cliches and hopes they stick (Atlantis and aliens and evil corporations and Nazis and the list goes on), without any effort to weave them into the story.
Explanations of legitimate scientific concepts are laughably bad (I found parts of the Wikipedia article on Spanish flu dropped directly into the characters' dialogue), and the author goes way overboard with cliches (count the number of times you see the phrase 'brain wiring').
I think the book does a good job of revealing back story without over doing it.
Loved all the scientific elements (evolution, genetics, clinical trials) and also interesting historical details.
What appear to be minor details at the time reappear throughout the story linking the present with the past.This book will appeal to a variety of readers.
As a female reader, I was interested to see if the author appealed to a larger group and was pleasantly surprised.
I love to travel so the foreign locations were an added bonus.The Atlantis Gene will definitely have you thinking long after you put it down.
Nazis,time travel, Atlantis, a mystical spear that was used to stab Jesus, secret portals that let you walk from Gibralter to Antarctica, space monkeys, miniature nuclear weapons that can be created in days and placed in a 5 year old's backpack, world wide plagues, neanderthals, genetic engineering, gun fights, love stories, crazy plot twists, the Spanish flu, magical potions that cure all wounds and ills, characters with massive Freudian complexes, lost loves, World War 1 AND World War II, a secret society that has lasted since the dawn of time, super spies, betrayals, noble deaths, a toss away sex scene, autistic Indonesian kids in peril, hot air balloon escapes from mountain top monasteries with mystical ninja monks.
489 pages of when I'd be at work and frantically wanting to fangirl and wondering if anyone could see how excited I was.That's when you know a novel has captivated you with its story.
I stumbled upon the book on Amazon, read the description, and thought, "Hm. A sci-fi novel with its own creation theory that involves Atlantis?
I am attempting not to spoil the book and still give a good review so excuse me if my words become a tad confusing.
The novel involves the lost city of Atlantis that no doubt all of us has heard about.
It had so many side stories going and I thought sure it would finally come together at the end but it did to some degree but the rest will be in the next books.
I was hoping that more of the story would be in this book about what the secret would be about.
This was very action packed, full of intrigue but the stuff I was interested in will probably be in later books.
So, I did enjoy it and it is worth the read just wanted it to stretch some of the good stuff in more of this book.
Honestly, I felt rushed and did not fully understand the landscape of the many different settings the author takes us to in such a brief number of pages.
Other than a setting which is listed next to the chapter number, there was inadequate language offered to create a meaningful visual of where the characters are in space and time.
We are instead ushered quite quickly to conversations between characters of different organizations which aim to reveal (much too quickly) the plot of this book.
Conversely, this book offers too little in the way of details to help us (the reader) give a shit about what's actually happening.
Don't read this book unless...Unless you thought the Da Vinci Code is a prime example of Great Literature and unless you're a devout follower of the History Channel's Crazy Hair Guy. The Atlantis Gene takes about a hundred plot bits - everything from Indiana Jones-type evil Nazis to 9-11 and Roswell to James Bond spies cross and double crosses, plus the Biblical Flood, Atlantis, eugenics, an Ebola-like flu, ancient alien influences and a Tibetan monastery ( Holy Shangri-La, Batman!) and chops them up in a giant plot blender.
Somebody get these people a comb!You'll also find some expendable good guy who solves the first major puzzle, transfers a couple millions dollars as instructed, creates his own secret message AND destroys the computer with evidence - all in time to be fatally shot.
Full review now up!All of the ingredients used to make up The Atlantis Gene story worked really well for my tastes.
The basis of this story is one that peaked my interest, even before reading the synopsis of the book.
The pace of this story is pretty quick throughout.
By quick, I mean a lot of the chapters are 2 to 3 pages then switching back to another POV.
It is a vital part of the story, so drag may not be the appropriate word.
I believe I just approached it differently due to the subject it involved.
The first word that came to mind after finishing this novel was "Ambitious".Perhaps a bit too amibitious.
And we see all these tubes with Atlanteans, but we fail to have any description of what they look like.So....while I thoroughly enjoyed the novel in many contexts, my advice to this first-time novelist would be to simplify.
And 9-11 thrown in?It was really too much.Simplify.I gave this novel a 4-star rating, primarily because the editing and storytelling was in concise, clear, grammatically correct prose.
And also because it was a first novel.
Had this been an established writer, it probably would have earned 3 stars.
Definitely not the level of techno-thriller as say a Lincoln Child, James Rollins, or Michael Crichton but okay for what it is.
The book was interesting enough to keep me reading but ultimately failed to satisfy me as a book by one of the others who I mentioned.
I think it was due to the fact that the chapters we're so short and the action seemed to jump around from one storyline to the next much too quickly.
I never got a chance to become invested in any of the characters or what was going on with them.
Not special enough in my opinion to warrant continuing with the series.
Le Guin getting together to spin a yarn.The trilogy has its flaws, so I'd qualify the recommendation by stating it's for readers of the science fiction and thriller genres.
Then historical fiction, or is it a medical disaster story, or a political thriller.
Is it a science fiction novel?This is a complex story.
The story moves so quickly, there isn't enough time for character development, a problem that will come back to haunt the author and reader in later parts of the trilogy.The protagonists are trying to untie a Gordian knot of intrigue and secrets that goes back hundreds, possibly thousands of years.
Really simple, plot incomprehensibleReally simple, plot incomprehensibleThankfully I didnt pay a cent for this, but I did waste my monthlly Amazon Prime freebie loaner book for the month on it.
This book is poorly done on every level.
I made it to 25 percent, but knew after a couple chapters that I was wasting my time.I have no earthly idea how so many have given 5 stars to this drivel.
My advice when checking out a book is to read the one and two star reviews.
They typically give a more reasoned review.
5 stars?
I borrowed this book for free using the Kindle Lending Library. While I gave this book 1 star, I think this author has potential. The overall concept was ok, but the work just felt unpolished. The sci-fi aspects were well explained, and the plot was fast paced, but the dialogue was cringe worthy. I think in an effort to explain the science but keep the pace moving the author sacrificed character development. My main problem with the book is I couldn't care less what happened to any of the people.
Author A.G. Riddle inaugural novel starts out pretty fast.
Make that somewhat insanely fast.
The characters begin to make sense and A.G. revisits everything.
Every little plot twist gets attention.
All the elements he packs into the beginning of the mystery will make sense.
The grand scheme begins to make a little too much sense, making me wonder if there isn't some kind of Immari organization manipulating everything from international politics to economic markets.
But he's an unlucky badass, always getting thumped somehow.
She doesn't just scream when the going gets tough.
And I love this type of novel.
Le Guin getting together to spin a yarn.The trilogy has its flaws, so I'd qualify the recommendation by stating it's for readers of the science fiction and thriller genres.
Then historical fiction, or is it a medical disaster story, or a political thriller.
Is it a science fiction novel?This is a complex story.
The story moves so quickly, there isn't enough time for character development, a problem that will come back to haunt the author and reader in later parts of the trilogy.The protagonists are trying to untie a Gordian knot of intrigue and secrets that goes back hundreds, possibly thousands of years.
I know some of what it's like to put yourself out there for the public to notice and critique, and it's not an easy thing to do.
I just always found myself wanting "more".
And I can't put an exact finger on what "more" I wanted.
I hated the villain as I feel he did reach cartoonish levels of sociopathy and I didn't feel like his motive was good enough to warrant that much carnage.I will say that I am very interested in continuing the story, which at the end of it all, makes this another successful self-publishing in my eyes!
An amazing book I couldn't put down (and at 488 pages that's a long thrill ride).A little bit sci-fi, a little bit mystery, suspense, thriller, and even historical fiction - it's all here and not only kept me on the edge of my seat but kept me guessing where it was going.This story has some of the most ruthless villains (or are they?) and the author is ruthless in his own way too, not afraid to kill off one character after another just as you get to know them.Don't really understand some of the two star criticism on this one.
Her ne kadar macera gibi gözükse de içinde bilimkurgu öğeleri barındırıyor.
İşin içine bu öğeler girince kitabın sonlarına doğru düğüm iyice karmaşıklaşıyor ve yazar bile kimin kim olduğunu parantez içinde belirtmek zorunda kalıyor.
Hani Scooby Doo'da Shaggy hortlağın maskesini kaldırdığında kötü adam ya uşak ya bahçıvan çıkardı ya onun gibi.Kitap aynı bir macera filmi gibi farklı lokasyonlarda farklı karakterlerle başlıyor.
Bu kitapta bazı bölümler bir bile değil, yarım sayfa!
Dolayısıyla kitabın tamamına baktığınızda bile her bir bölüm ortalama 3.9 sayfa çıkıyor.
Kaldı ki genellikle bu tarz kitaplar ortalama 350 sayfa civarı olurken bu kitap ederine göre fazla uzun.
Tam 568 sayfa.
I was so disappointed in this book!
Every night I would fail at my attempt to read this book, although today I finished it.
The book is extremely confusing.
I feel as though I might have liked the book better if I had taken more time to understand it.
I also think think that I didn't like the book because I don't like Science Fiction.
One time I was reading about the Spanish flu on Wikipedia, and that was put directly into someone's dialogue.
The author goes WAY overboard with cliches.In all, I would have given this book 1.5 stars
This book included such diverse subjects as several religions, evolution and Darwinism, autism, and then tried to combine genres of books as well such as mystery with almost James Bond type action, as well as turning this into a piece of science fiction.
It's not that I can't do it...I usually read several books at a time, while I'm teaching several classes (I'm a professor of science).
Once I got a general idea for the layout of the book, the science and ideas were very interesting.
The ideas were very clever, and unusual, and the author did a lot of research into the topics.
A.G. Riddle seamlessly combined several genres, including historical fiction, mystery, science fiction, and romance in THE ATLANTIS GENE.
The novel began intriguingly with a dig in Antarctica and a kidnapping in Indonesia then moves around the world from Southeast Asia to China to Europe and back to Asia and Antarctica.
If the legend of Atlantis fascinates you, if you’re interested in the possible origins of the human species, and if you love a good thriller, the Atlantis Gene is the book for you.
Throw in some historical oddities and two warring factions fighting for the future of the human race and you get a potboiler that is extremely entertaining and hard to put down.As an independent novelist myself, I know how hard it is to get noticed.
Unfortunately, there is a lot of independent fiction out there that is either unreadable or not worth reading.
This is one of the best books I have read in a long time. It seriously has everything AND it flows well. I wish I could say more but I don't want to give anything away!! One of the few mystery books that I didn't have figured out within the first few chapters. Seriously, read this book.
I found this debut novel a major page turner, and was unable to read another book while I was immersed in this one.
Many reviewers claim that this book is too ambitious for a first-time author, and that it reads more like a movie script than a novel.
Since I am a slow reader, a 500 page book is quite an investment of my limited reading time, but for me, it was worth every minute I spent with it.
At the time of this review, book two is already available, and is on sale.
Not too bad, hard to follow at times, but over all caught my attention. Figured it would get better with each book as the story progresses.Listened to the audio book for the most part and was pretty good. If your into sci-fi then this may be something you will like. Has some technical stuff that was a little over my head, and science stuff, etc.
