https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71293.Asterix_and_the_Great_Crossing
Chief Vitalstatistix is in a foul mood, as his shield bearers are both out with food poisoning from bad fish, sold by village fishmonger Unhygienix (The proof is in the name alone), and so is angry, and egged on by blacksmith, and shit disturber extraordinaire, Fulliautomatix, leading to one of our famous village brawls.Druid and voice of wisdom Getafix says this is unacceptable, as he needs "reasonably" fresh fish for the magic potion that the villagers all use to keep the Romans (and other th
They all board the ship, and end up home in the land of Vikings, where the Chief is mad at Herendthelessen for going on a jaunty cruise while the rest were raiding villages.There's some fun Shakespeare puns, and the chief plans to sacrifice Asterix and Obelix to the Gods, until a slave discovers they're Gauls, not from the New World as thought.
Five stars.Just for fun, here are some of the new words I learned this time around:• un râleur : a grouch• "abrège!" : I can't think how we'd say this in English exactly, but something like "give me the short version!" (cognate of "abridge")• frêle : frail• tire-au-flanc : shirker (lit., to shoot on the flank, I guess?
I love this)• méfie-toi : watch out, be waryAnd presumably I used to know this, but I definitely noticed the parallelism between voici and voilà.
Somehow we use only the latter word in English.Et voilà!
Astérix books are tons of fun and educational, too ;-)
Наздраве... с глътка магическа отвара! А вместо фойерверки - всеки римски легионер ще види звезди посред бял ден! Да посрещнем Новата Година с едни любими герои от 50 години пр. Хр., които със сигурност ще продължават да векуват! :) Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Asterix in America! and Denmark.The very few things noted by me:Romans have no part in this adventure.Asterix's prophetic words, 'It's like a new world'Quoting Shakespeare's Hamlet, Neil Armstrong.A knocked down Indian sees the stars of the the American Flag Discovery of roast turkeyAsterix stance in The Statue of Liberty to signal the boat. Few funny moments but could've been far more better. Didn't like the fact the Native Americans were given the same stereotypical 'Red-Indian' treatment.
Asterix and the Great Crossing (Astérix #22), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
Ce volume là était un peu bof malgré un petit passage sympa d'Astérix et Obélix sur le continent américain.
Es war nur eine Frage der Zeit bis es unsere gallischen Freunde über den Ozean nach Amerika verschlägt und uns auch noch zeigt, dass sie gemeinsam mit Vertretern aus dem Norden an den Küsten dieses Landes - noch vor Kolumbus -ankommen.Auch hier gilt wieder - angefüllt mit wundervollen farbenprächtigen Ideen und Anspielungen, das Leben der Indianer und die Wikinger, welche sich hierher verirren und auf die Gallier treffen und damit nicht glauben, dass sie einen anderen Kontinent entdeckt haben könnten.
Fein durchzogen, hier zeigt sich, dass Rene's Anspielungen immer dichter werden, diesmal reichen sie bis Shakespeares Hamlet.
Ein immer wieder lesenswerter Band ...
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
My favourite Asterix. It was recommended to me back in the 70's by a 12 year old Danish girl, though she did say that it portrayed Vikings incorrectly...."They were nice farming people who liked to travel!"
Occasionale e spaccato in due (avventure tra i nativi americani e coi normanni). Diverse trovate efficaci.
Very funny - still, my favorite is still Tintin...Maria Carmo,Lisbon 20 March 2015.
Der Geschichte fehlt es an Witz und Ironie.
Зашто немаш свеже рибе?Зар опет иста прича? Већ сам рекао да очекујем испоруку!Али ту ти је море, на два корака од села!Море? Какве везе има море с рибом?
Mitos, historia e historietaUn poco alucinada mi relectura de Asterix, ahora con la excusa de leérselo a mi hijo de casi 6 años cada noche antes de que se duerma.Por empezar, ahora entiendo muchos chistes para grandes que de chico seguro se me escapaban.
Y en todo caso recién cobran relevancia con Napoléon llevándose puestas casi todas las casas reales del viejo continente.
Ahora, desde mis 43 años, las encuentro un poco zonzas por momentos.
A mi hijo le encanta y todas las noches me pide que le lea los globitos de los diálogos mientras el sigue la acción con los dibujos.
I've started buying Asterix comics a year or two ago, based on a simple rule: only buying the volumes where the action happens in a place I've visited. After going to the States earlier this year, I jumped on La grande traversee... and left it in my shelf since. Turns out, I wasn't missing much. This is definitely not one of the stronger volumes - it does what it usually does, but with fewer hilarious gems hidden in there. Fine if you're a collector, but far from my favourite.[PopSugar Reading Challenge 2017 - "A book with pictures"]
Først og fremst er å for a og ø for o ekstremt distraherande. Etter det blir ein jo nyfiken på kva slags folk som budde i Nord-Amerika / Karibia og Skandinavia rundt 50 fvt og koss ein teikneserie om dei ville sett ut. Ikkje på topp 10 Asterix.
This was such a joy to read again after so many years. I remember so clearly my thoughts as a child while reading this and it gave me the warm fuzzies. I really intend to read these more often. There's also some fun historical references in there that might have went over my head as a kid.
Asterix and Ovelix went for fishing and after a big storm find themselves to meet Thracians or Cretans or... Indians of new world. Ovelix is engaged to be married but they escape with a Viking ship.... Not the best story but we love these Gauls!
This was my first Asterix comic. Re-reading it after more than 20 years
Une de mes séries BD préférées de l'enfance!
3.5/5
Asterix crosses the ocean in this packed adventure that lacks the usual drive for our heroes and sometimes misses opportunity for better jokes.
if you overlook the ridiculousness of the plot then it's enjoyable.
Asterix in the New World?
Asterix ja Obelix lähtevät hakemaan tuoretta kalaa ja reissullaan päätyvät sekä Amerikkaan intiaanien luokse, että Pohjolaan viikinkin seuraksi. Ei mitään erityistä.
La Grande Traversée - René GoscinnyRating: ★★★Review coming soon!
**Warning: this text may contain spoilers** It's a good book which tells about the different languages of people around the world and at the same time man's desire to discover new worlds.
Her zaman keyifle okumaya devam edeceğim :)
In my book, Asterix and Obelix the Gauls are going fishing when they are blown off course and discover America.
You never know where they've been!" because I thought it was funny that that was considered good quality fish.
I do not know why the author wrote this book but I think it was so others could read it and have fun.
This was fun to read and I would recommend it to somebody interested in history so that they got all the jokes, or anyone, really, because it is really funny to anyone.
Around the year 1000, a group of Norse Vikings led by the captain Leiv Eriksson arrived in the new world of America, roughly 500 years before Christopher Columbus rediscovered it again and put the continent on the map for good.All lies.The real adventurers who discovered America were of course the Gauls Asterix and Obelix.
These new soldiers dress in loincloths, don long feathers in their breaded hair and are surprisingly accurate with bow and arrow for a group of Italians…Unaware of the discovery they’ve made, Asterix and Obelix are excepted into a tribe of Native Americans, providing more than enough opportunity for writer Goscinny and artist Uderzo to present a book filled with misunderstandings, jokes and pop culture references.
