https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821863.The_Portable_Emerson
When one reads Ralph Waldo Emerson's writings they should keep in mind of three things: nature, God, and New England. All three of these things listed are shown in numerous essays, letters, poems, etc. Another thing that comes to mind is Emerson's politics, he basically was one of several American philosophers who was nether a liberal or conservative but more likely a libertarian. Founder of the transcendentalism movement the core ideas seemed to be finding nature in God and the importance of individualism.
How can a man who said and wrote so many lovely things also, somehow, be sooooo egregiously boring? Seeing as how I am most certainly NOT a philosophy scholar, I think it would have been better for me to have half-assed it and read something closer to "Emerson's Greatest Hits." ...although I thought that's kind of what this was meant to be. Eh.
I could - and maybe should - read "Self-Reliance" at least once every month. For me it's one of those texts that gives you a good slap on the face and forces you to really scrutinize your priorities. There are things I still have questions about (namely, his attitude towards charity) but that only adds to the richness of the text. Quite non-dual, too.
The stridency, ambition and intensity of Emerson’s greatest work - Nature, Self-Reliance, American Scholar - is its strength and also its undoing.
At best, there is an accumulation of pithy, wise and insightful observations; at worst, he reads in a hectoring tone, full of wild and willful explorations, which are unprovable, fantastical and unsustainable.
If you’ve read contemporary philosophy, say, you’ll be shocked by how is able to define art, language, morality and of course nature without pause.
Shocked because he offers little restraint when taking in, say, the genius of Shakespeare, where others may fear to tread.
obviously a reread, but really liking this penguin collected edition

Well, this is the great Ralph Waldo Emerson.
When one speaks of Emerson as regards words and thought, there comes the muse that herein lies the 'sentence.' Few if any realize that Emerson had attained what in some circles is coined "Cosmic Consciousness." His writings were among the most principled, spanning the periods of the 18th and 19th Centuries among the men and women of Letters of America and Britain -- and simply literary concerns generally, regardless of origin.
One today relies so heavily upon colloquialism and slang but should one get-on to the like of an Emerson, one finds that eloquence of word and thought far exceeds anything that can be got-up by popular thought and speech.
Emerson's was classic.
Despite efforts to reduce Emerson to an avuncular source of pithy quotes, his essays, when read in their fullness, still contain the power to move and inspire people today.
He was deeply American, yet also aware of the tradition of Idealism, dating back to Plato and beyond, which shaped much of his thinking.
His use of language takes some getting used to, since he was often writing at the edge of what is expressible in words, but when you have acquired a taste for him it's difficult to go back to the pablum that characterizes much of today's "spiritual" writing.
This book offers a good cross-section of his essays, lectures, and poems.
Solid primer on one of America's master writers. I profess that the subject matter was very difficult to follow at times, as I'm not that big on poetry or long-form essays with more classical language. Nonetheless, this is an excellent book for anyone just getting into the man's works, and there are some short stories and speeches that stay with you after you've read them.Recommended.
This book is a collection of Emerson's essays and poems--perhaps the standard collection for the generl reader. For the scholar, it is often useful to quote this edition, since it is so widely available. Sound scholarship--though now a little older than the recent work in the current Emerson revival. The book has been frequently reprinted.
Living in New York, you can lose touch with nature. Reading this on the subway in the mornings instead of AM new york or Metro, really helps one connect with something bigger than themselves even in a crowded, materialistic, adrenaliine driven city.
Self-reliance is one of a handful of essays and books I dig out and reread every couple of months, or whenever I'm feeling a bit adrift. It's about as close as I get to inspirational, but this has an edge to it.
Perhaps one of the most quintessential American reads. I don't believe I will ever stop reading this book.
A brilliant man, famous during his time, but today he would be criticized for inconsistency, hypocrisy and egoism. He does not stand the test of time well.
Love this book, I always turn to the essay "self reliance" when I feel down.
Read in Bordeaux while preparing my thesis
Read:"The American Scholar"Nature"Self-Reliance""The Poet""Experience"
A major book for my 'deserted island' list. Dip into it every year since I discovered him in the 1960's and am always pleasantly surprised how much I learn.
Smartest American of all time?
