https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196930.Brecht_on_Theatre
From what I've read, I would suggest "Theatre for Pleasure or Theatre for Instruction," "The Street Scene," and "A Short Organum for the Theatre" for anyone who wants to get a fairly quick but really solid sense of Brecht's theories of the epic theatre and the A-effect.Basically Brecht looms large over the history of 20th century theatre--probably larger than any other single practicioner, except maybe someone like Stanislavsky.
I don't think I entirely know what this looks like (probably in part because I have grown up in a post-Brechtian theatrical situation, so it may be more that I don't know what the alternative against which Brecht is reacting would look like, if that makes any sense), but I find the idea fascinating.

Brecht is a charmer, if nothing else, and his plays have so much life to them that manages to succeed even when his vaunted "alienation" effect doesn't work as planned.
And in his theoretical work, he's often charming too, even if his writings on theater from a technical perspective are a bit useless to me as a layman.
I can't say that all of the writings here are of value -- indeed, some of the writings on theater practitioner as worker are almost comically dated -- but it's an honest voice, and one with far less pretense than most theatrical writing.
This compilation of Brecht's writings on theater is organized chronologically, showing how his concepts of the "epic theater" and alienation developed over the course of his life.
The general understanding of what is "Brechtian" today is a form of theater that alienates the audience, and this effect is usually created by making the audience physically and emotionally uncomfortable.
However, Brecht's idea of alienation is far more nuanced than that; in fact, the audience should be so comfortable that they can more objectively assess the situation being presented to them (for Brecht, reason > emotion) even while realizing that they are implicated in the systems wrecking havoc on the characters' lives.As far as this particular edition goes, the editor's notes are very thorough, but he places the contextual summaries for each of Brecht's little essays at the end of each essay - WHY?
In this series of notes and essays, we can follow how Brecht theorizes a new theatre that exposes class contradictions and goad the public to action for social transformation. Brecht's interventions are at once very practical (as guides to theatre production and acting) and clarificatory of aesthetic issues such as realism, formalism, popular culture, among others. Breaking with the old theatre which has served to conjure illusions about an exploitative social order, Brecht's innovations not only gives theatre a great service. It is another step in the development of an aesthetics that serves the people's struggle.
Lol ... this will say more about my level of intellect I presume than the quality of the work, but I would much rather read about Brecht from other people's words than from the man himself! It was tough going and I don't feel as though I'm any better equipted to teach his theatrical techniques now, than what I was when I started reading this text! He is not a man I would have called friend! :)
Good insight into Brecht's thoughts. While the first part makes it look as if Brecht is a little maniacal and rigid, he makes it clear later in the book his sense of humor and that he is merely describing one (new) way of doing things. Some essays are incredibly obtuse, but many are very enjoyable.
I read this for a German class. I can't say I was very interested in theatre or in Brecht's opinion on it. I just needed the credits.
Ok, in all fairness, I didn't read the whole thing, but I did love the parts I read... :) Used parts of it as I was researching Brecht for my Fear and Misery project in college.
I haven't actually read the entire book but it's one of the greatest sources I've ever used for research and is incredibly interesting, to boot.
It's better to read other people talk about his theories than he talk about them himself. But it's a foundational tome, nontheless.
Read:  Alienation Effects in Chinese Acting.
Practically already worship Brecht. Really great to dig into his own thoughts with the context of his time and location.
Using it as a comparative source to study the films of Lars Von Trier, but also starting to grow interested in the other ideas Brecht puts forth even though they don't necessarily go with my topic.
It makes me smile and inspires me!
Crazy SOB
It was a great book.
It would be nice if theatre ran in this vein more often. It's helpful to read through his conception of it.
Does what it says on the tin, and features a wide range of Brecht's essays on the subject of theatre.
Used this as one of my secondary sources for an English literature assignment.A huge selection of the essays are brilliant, but there are a few that feel as though they've been butchered in translation, and some of them just aren't relevant.
The editorial notes at the end of each essay add a nice amount of context, but at points they become rambling and incoherent, talking about everything but the piece that they're attached to.
Was absolutely invaluable for my essay, though.
