https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74406.Fifth_Business
This role of course is not a literal one – Dunstan is not an actor in a play or opera, yet he is a person who seems to have an influence on the lives of another small cast of characters in his real life drama.
It certainly made me question to what extent our actions – or omissions – affect the lives of others and at what point can we say that we have paid our debt so to speak.
Through Ramsay’s eyes we view the petty concerns and grotesqueries of small town life, things that, while petty (or perhaps *because* they are petty), are more than powerful enough to destroy a human life; we share in some of the horrors of the First World War as well as the ennobling elements of life that can overcome such things; and we witness the ways in which, sometimes unbeknownst to us, our lives are intertwined with those of everyone we meet, no matter how disconnected and solitary we think we are._Fifth Business_ isn’t my favourite book by Davies, but it’s a very good one and is an excellent introduction to the kind of writing you’ll experience if you choose to try him out.
Lately little spirally kalliope has been reading so many books that deal with saints and other holy figures that she was beginning to question her own mythological essence.
This novel is also about saints.Silly kalliope felt lost and could see that her Muse was abandoning her and that she was on her way to become Saint Kalliope of the holy Spiral and that she would be joining Saint Ursula and her thousand saints… Irretrievably.
Gyges and King Candaules, by now familiar characters who live in various novels.
Canada behind the glossFor me Robertson Davies is Canada: its gentleness and its snobbery; its reserve and its smugness; its inherent democratic attitudes and its bourgeois provincialism; its multicultural diversity and subtle ethnic prejudices.
It is the US without the fanaticism and England without inherited nobility.
Davies ability to describe Canada's uniqueness is unparalleled and itself unique.
Davies ability to sense the peculiar mores and foibles of this now declining culture is remarkable.
Few writing in the English language can beat Davies prose.
She became what people of Deptford called "simple".
For example take his relationship with Mrs. Dampster and how highly he think of her.
Whereas his mother think that him spending time with that "simple" lady is not good for her son.
But Ramsay knows why she has became "simple" and he blames himself for it.
There was a lot of struggle for a loving mother (she was also a kind woman) to understand her son and Mrs. Dampster.
Then later on it's his relationship with his friend Staunton that take precedence.One of the thing that stand about Ramsay's is that he is not critical.
Recently I asked a couple friends to recommend some bigger books (or series) that they really liked.
A friend of mine, who is an author and shares many similar tastes (Patrick O'Brian and John le Carré, etc) recommend the Deptford Trilogy by Davies.
This book is good.
It reminded me of an intellectualized version of John Irving (later I discovered Irving LOVED/LOVES Davies) mixed with a bit of John Fowles.
He is a master of time, place, and character AND he is also one of those authors whose prose is full of little.
But it’s some sort of really Strange Magic, as ELO sang at the time I hitched up with my wife in the Seventies...Davies’ trilogy is MAGIC too.
But here it’s magical - and small-town Ontario was never so strangely and savagely serendipitous BEFORE Boy Staunton threw that accursed Snowball..
. But suddenly it’s a World of Good and Evil Wonders, as if suddenly blanketed in a new two-foot sparkling carpet of Lake Effect snow!I may have met Robertson Davies back in those early days of my life, had my high school marks permitted me to attend the U of T English Faculty.
I can not stand this book and don't understand why people seem to rave about it.I like the concept- that a character's life is not special, in itself, but how that character influences other character's lives gives the first character meaning, a bit like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in Hamlet- but the book itself is just...
I found the main character to be boring, flat, uninteresting, and whinny.
One read is enough.
My personal opinion and harsh criticism aside and looking at the literature itself, I still don't see why people praise this book so highly.
Dunston comes to realize over the course of the novel that he has lived his life as a Fifth Business - a term, which derives from the opera, meaning to a supporting character , who, while he has no opposite of the other sex (being neither the hero nor heroine, villain nor rival), and is essential to the plot, for he often knows the secret of the hero's birth, or comes to the assistance of the heroine when all seems lost, or may even be the cause of someone's death.

But that didn't bother me; I mostly forgot about its being the contents of a (long!) letter.This book could be considered a historical novel since the author comes of age at the time of the Great War. He's a contemporary of my grandparents, then, and for readers in middle adulthood, the age of your great grandparents.
There is no religiosity (meaning affectation) either.About this "fifth business" business that's supposed to mean a particular character who is not the hero, or the villain, or either of the other main roles, yet without him, nothing would happen.
Γιατί το βιβλίο τούτο είναι μια οντότητα ξεχωριστή, ένα καταπληκτικό βιβλίο και κάθε σύνδεση με τον Μάγο σταμάτησε μετά τις πρώτες σελίδες.Το βιβλίο έχει κάτι από εκείνη την σπάνια ποιότητα γραπτών που δεν διαβάζουμε συχνά: η φωνή του αφηγητή έχει την βραχνάδα ενός παλιού κρασιού, φινέτσα και δηκτικότητα μαζί.
Αντίθετα, όμως, με τον Φάουλς, ο Davies φαίνεται να παρουσιάζει ένα σκοτεινό κόσμο, ο άνθρωπος είναι έρμαιο των αδυναμιών του και θα πληρώσει για αυτό αργά ή γρήγορα.Το βιβλίο είναι το πρώτο μέρος της τριλογίας.
Effortless to read. I rarely become this engrossed in a novel. Robertson Davies is a wonderful storyteller. Reminds me of a better (and more concise) John Irving.
And John Irving ought to give one dollar for every book he's ever sold to the estate of Robertson Davies...but that's another story.In the winter of 1908, in the small Ontario town of Deptford, a spiteful boy throws a snowball with a rock in it at another boy.
The intended target of the snowball, Dunstan Ramsay, is racked with guilt when a pregnant young lady, Mary Dempster, receives the blow meant for him.
Son of the town's elite, Staunton is sent to the best schools and soon becomes a wealthy captain of industry.
It may be technically interesting, and good archetype study, but its entire premise fails.
The character's life was certainly eventful, but not at all interesting.
This is a mind-bogglingly boring book to read.
"I like saints!" Nobody cares.This book was so uninteresting to me, I could barely get through it.
I'm now a secondary school English teacher and it is my mission in life to keep books like this OFF the reading list.
Every student I've ever spoken to loathed this book.
It's novels like this that convince students that literature has nothing to offer them and kills the joy of reading.
"Those roles which, being neither those of Hero nor Heroine, Confidante nor Villain, but which were nonetheless essential to bring about the Recognition or the dénouement, were called the Fifth Business in drama and opera companies organized according to the old style; the player who acted these parts was often referred to as Fifth Business." –Robertson DaviesFifth Buisness is the memoir of Dunstable(Dunstan) Ramsey, newly retired school teacher unhappy with his farewell write-up in the school paper.
How life, like a play has heroes, villains and supporting characters, and how sometimes the most mundane moments are the defining ones.
Fifth Business has steadily moved up the ranks of my quaint list of favourite books.
Is that the epitome of the Fifth Business, or the antithesis?
To assume I can see my own lineage woven through the fabric of a tale published a decade before my conception?
There is something so hauntingly Canadian about this tale, and specifically it's author.
The man who observes, quietly and swollen with guilt, the amass of players who dip in and out of his life.
He sees life as a story, in which other figures are key elements to its progression.
I love this book--it is one of my comfort reads.
I took it to Ecuador with me for pleasant airport/airplane reading and now remember why I love it so much.
But I think since those undergraduate days, I have learned to be the the star of my own show, at least most of the time.
I identified with Dunstan Ramsey--not really fitting in to his community, having intellectual aspirations, enjoying education, and eventually, pursuing a pass-time that many people don't quite understand.
People who aren't involved in these fields tend to think of us as loonies.
Как приятно возвращаться к книгам спустя много лет и осознавать: в 17 лет ты уже могла отличить хорошую книгу от плохой, а именно эта оказалась настолько хорошей, что и через ещё десять лет вернуться к ней не помешает. (And the audible production is really good, the narrator fits the text perfectly and treats it with due respect.)
And Robertson Davies made Dunstan a writer, which provides perfect justification for the clever, indulgent little passages like this one:I thought I was in love with Leola, by which I meant that if I could have found her in a quiet corner, and if I had been certain that no one would ever find out, and if I could have summoned up the courage at the right moment, I would have kissed her.Dunstan appears earnest and honest, confessing to his foibles—his childhood lust for Leola, his sense of responsibility for Mrs. Dempster's condition and Paul Dempster's new life—but one of the themes of Fifth Business concerns how we conflate myth and history to recreate ourselves.
However, it might be just me getting tired of extensive dictionary search because, since English is not my native language, I was looking up several words per page as I wanted to understand every single wordplay or colorful epithet.VERDICT: 4 out of 5Although I really liked the main themes and the writing style of this book, the story itself could have been a little bit more eventful.
It's not about the woman he injures, who may be a saint; it's not about the son who barely survives and goes on to be the world's greatest magician, and it's certainly not about whether vengeance will ever be served.
It's about Fifth Business, the "odd man out," a bystander:Those roles which, being neither those of Hero nor Heroine, Confidante nor Villain, but which were none the less essential to bring about the Recognition or the denouement.Davies made the term up, but it's a time-honored tradition.
Nick Carraway from The Great Gatsby is Fifth Business.
Charles Ryder from Brideshead Revisited is Fifth Business.
Bilbo Baggins is Fifth Business.
He has certainly produced magic here.
Robertson Davies is one of my favorite writers, because I feel so intellectual and learned when I read him.
Fifth Business is the first novel in the Deptford trilogy.
Fifth business is a dramatic term denoting a character who is neither the hero nor the villain in the play, but the person who precipitates the events taking place by his relationship to the main characters.
If Robertson Davies is not the most celebrated Canadian author, he should be.
You will finish this book feeling infinitely smarter than when you began, simply because you were under Davies spell for the duration.

I honestly didn't understand this book.....and neither did my classmates. Although this book may have many archatypes....I think a different bookight have been better as this book didn't seem to grasp anyone's attention in our class. I feel this book can be better understood by people who are more mature and should be read when you are older....not grade 11....because you cannot relate to the characters or anything the book is talking about at that age.......!!!
As I did with the Cornish Trilogy, I read the last volume of the Deptford Trilogy, World of Wonders, first - for no good reason, other than it was readily available to read.
And, as with the Cornish Trilogy, I'm finding that this was a big, big mistake, so I'm reading Deptford from the beginning and will reread World of Wonders.Robertson Davies was one of the master storytellers of the twentieth century.
One of the things I enjoy about his novels is that no one is perfect.
If anyone ever tells you to read this, punch them in the face and never speak to them again.
My lifelong involvement with the Fifth Business began at 5:58 o’clock pm on 1 March 2010. I still remember the strong feelings and expressions on my face as I eagerly scanned your letter, and I must say Mr Dunstan, your letter was beyond crafty and colourful – it was ingenious. It revealed the truths, the lies, and those burning thoughts you held within your mind for all these years. You took me through a truly marvellous journey. You had me confused at first when you talked about the Mrs Dempst
You were erratic in the letter, jumping from different events and times in your life, providing small pieces that were important but would not tell the entire story.
The design of the entire letter was flawless; with the first few enticing pages you provided the background of a pivotal event along with the hidden meaning of the “fifth business”.
In your letter, you say, “ he was accusing me of putting playing-cards – he called them the Devil’s picture-book – into the hands of his son Paul”, illustrating a crucial event that influenced Paul to run away from home and also showcasing the connections and importance of religion throughout your life.The people were displayed through your eyes and your thoughts which was an interesting method to understand the various characters in your life.
In fact, not since the better prose of Saul Bellow have I experienced a literature so determinedly skillful and driven to a single point, that point being adventurous literary exploration and analysis of themes and ideas fettered smoothly to the act of storytelling; that the depth of theme never overshadows the exigencies of storytelling puts Robertson Davies somewhat on par with a Bellow though lacking just a bit in what Bellow had, that is, a singular and distinctive voice.
I'm ashamed to say I bought this book in a used bookstore because of the cover, which I'm doubly ashamed to say that I likedWTF....yeas, I know.Anyway, as I'm preparing to make Canada my permanent home in the coming months, I wanted to explore Canadian literature and came across the book in one of the top-10-Canadian-novels-of-all-time lists online.
How I enjoyed reading this little gem of a book!
I would surely be reading the two other books of the Deptford Trilogy and the other books of Davies.
To know that the guy wrote 10 other novels makes me ecstatic!
