https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40606265-the-charm-school
I got through the book, but when the hero is unlikabe it makes it difficult to keep with a story which is why it took me two months to finish it.Over the last couple days I've scanned the few DeMille books that I have held onto and I now understand why I stopped reading him.
At the time I might not have been aware of what was going on, but I was growing up during the years that I read DeMille.
In other words I changed, but DeMille's heroes didn't.All of his heroes are basically the same person with just a different plot and name.
Ten reasons why this book is garbage :-01.
We know why Sam is in love with the heroine but the reciprocation of that is not explained.03.
It's just a reason for Sam and Lisa to have sex.05.
I'm still ruing not abandoning reading this garbage, and I'm aware I'm wasting more time on this book and this review.07.
The reasons given for the slight slap on the wrist for Lisa and Sam don't hold up.
Lisa seems to be as atheistic as Sam. That does not compute.14.
You'll understand if you read The Charm School.
When a young American tourist (Gregory Fisher) picks up a U.S. POW on the run while touring Russia, (in his Pontiac Grand Am) the excitement begins and doesn't stop.This intense and fast-moving spy thriller brings the evil of the Soviet Union to life during the Cold War with well-defined characters, loads of KGB treachery and a horror of a secret deep in the woods.Perhaps a little wordy at times, and I did not care much for the female protagonist, but the brave Colonel Hollis and his sarcastic wit more than made up for her weaknesses in spades.
Update: March 24, 2015
I bet the idea for The Americans came from The Charm School.
You know… the idea of Russian spies infiltrating the US, pretending to be Americans?
By the way, The Americans is one clever TV show that is such a rarity in our modern TV world.If you like spy novels, you might love The Charm School.
Unless it is a well-written book.The Charm School is just that – a very well written spy novel.
We have a hero.
We have a cold blooded son-of-a-bitch anti-hero.
We have a smart ass American spy.
We have a psychotic Russian spy.
Even then, he could make a seemingly improbable story believable and highly entertaining.
For anyone over 40 who remembers the tail-end of the long and mistrust-filled Cold War, this book will resonate.As usual, DeMille weaves an imaginative story involving characters you love, spies in the late 1980's, the American Embassy in Moscow, a bit of Russian history, Vietnam MIAs, a training school for Soviet Spies and a rescue mission that will have you on the edge of your seat.
The Charm School is riveting and one his best finishes, reminiscent of Night Fall and Plum Island.
Could the Charm School have ever existed?
However, the author (and his self importance and conceit), the characters, the characterization of the USSR, the work's long winded-ness, and its portrayal of relationships annoyed me so much as to push my rating over the edge.#1: It really took a lot of effort for me to give this book a shot after reading the second paragraph of the author's intro: "The Cold War is over, so is The Charm School still relevant?
#2: The characters are TRULY detestable, each and every single one of them; although clearly DeMille is trying to portray Americans as somehow superior to the Russians, everyone from Hollis to Lisa to Alevy to every American in between comes off as naive, idiotic, self aggrandizing, or worse.
The torture for their families and friends was in the not-knowing.These are the men who populate The Charm School.In the war, North Vietnam was a communist country with the USSR supporting it, and the Soviet Union is precisely where this story is set.
The job of the captives is to Americanize the KGB so that they can move to the US, pose as regular citizens, and spy on the country.The stunned kid manages to get garbled word to the US Embassy about this claim but then is suddenly clammed up.
reading this book is like cracking open a time capsule.
I cannot begin to guess how many times I have read this book; a conservative guess would be a dozen.
This is a book about the cold war, set in Moscow and featuring a plot twist so amazing that in its setting it would have been horrifying.
It makes things clear for the dullest of his readers but in the earlier version I enjoyed the slow reveal of the plot twist.
What makes this book frightening is that there was a society, a country, where you could disappear and no one would raise an eyebrow.
This is one doozy of a spy novel!
I've read several of this author's novels in the John Corey series, but this stand alone trumps them all.
I believe it was his first novel (??), and I think it's his best.
They study language and slang and history and culture, and then are sent to the U.S. where they live as Americans and are gradually infiltrating all levels of society.As always, DeMille can be a little long winded, but he clearly did his research about Russia.
I found the ending more satisfying than some of DeMille's other novels.
Turgid exposition that describes every plodding step our hero makes, hamhanded propaganda, one cardboard woman who would be right at home on Mickey Spillaine's lap, Soviet villains who display every Reagan-era leitmotif Americans were conditioned to despise (until we turned the tables in the Bush era and became  the torturing, anti-due process monsters we once fought)--what's not to loathe about this book?
And if all the steel-jawed murder is not enough to repel readers, there's some pretty blatant anti-Semitism too.I can't think of any circumstance, short of Soviet-era or Bush-era torture, that would cause me to recommend this book.
4.5 starts. The Charm School is a good roller coaster ride. Set the the late 1980's Soviet Union when spying and espionage were going full force. Starts with a bang and doesn't let up until the end. Full of surprises and kept my interest throughout.
I've read and enjoyed a couple of other thrillers by this author, so I gave him the benefit of the doubt and persisted with this stinker -- but my perseverance was not rewarded.
I realize it was written in the late 1980s, but even so the evil Russians and the noble Americans (complete with flaws of course, since shucks, nobody's perfect)were caricatures from a comic book in the 1950s.
I didn't like the Russians, I didn't like the Americans, and the whole Cold-War breathless "aren't they horrible?" stuff that went on and on was ludicrous.
I've read and been enthralled by LeCarre, for instance, since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
I also posted it to my Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google Plus pages.I read this book as it was recommended to me by my wife who read it years ago.
I have read one other book by Nelson DeMille - The Cuban Affair.This book, like The Cuban Affair, is based on conspiracy theories that took place during and following the Vietnam War. That said, this is a much better book than the Cuban Affair.
While an enjoyable read, I have to wonder if the Soviets were as inept as they are portrayed in the book.I recommend this book to anyone who is into conspiracy theories and likes to read about them being actual fact.
He is straight forward, knows what he wants and likes, and goes after it.
Now, yeah, he is a very sarcastic character, to say the least, but despite his shortcomings, I enjoyed getting to know him.Lisa, at a glance appears the exact opposite of Hollis, but as the story progresses I understood that she was anything but.
Someone I could relate to, despite not knowing anything about their jobs first hand.
Now, I did know the twist WAS coming, I just felt it, but I could not figure out exactly what it would be.
Think of the devastation it may wrought on the psyche of the family members of that MIA who are never going to know for sure whether their beloved one is dead or alive.So regardless of your nationality, try to spare a moment and think about these poor souls, because if your country has fought a war in the past 35-50 years, chances are that some of your countrymen who were listed as MIA at that time are still alive and being tortured daily for their patriotism.*********************************************************Now about The Charm School.
After finishing the book, I've decided I liked it... It's another one of those "takes forever to get somewhere" kind of reads. Overall it's good but s l o w. There is a lot of superfluous text that made me skim through paragraphs (and pages) just to get to a pertinent part. It left me wishing it were condensed, moved faster and focused on the plot rather than adding so much needless information. I felt it was about 100 pages too long. The first 200 pages were painfully slow...but once the plot r
After  finishing the book, I've decided I liked it...
There is a lot of superfluous text that made me skim through paragraphs (and pages) just to get to a pertinent part.
I felt it was about 100 pages too long.
The first 200 pages were painfully slow...but once the plot really got rolling I was absorbed in the exciting conclusion.
The main character's humor was enjoyable and the last 100+ were so exciting I stayed up waaaaay too late finishing the book.
All in all...3 stars because 1/3 of the book was 1 star and the last 100 pages were 5 stars...
I read this years ago and found it so suspenseful that I couldn't put it down. The Charm School is a hidden "camp" in Russia where captured Americans are forced to teach KGB agents how to act American so as to blend in and spy in the U.S. Nelson DeMille is one of my favorite authors and he weaved a chilling action story taking place in the heart of the Cold War. I need to read this again!
Not recommended for: -Everyone else-People who believe that Americans are The Good Guys in the Cold War4.25 stars but since I cheated with bullet points in this review, the rating is rounded up to make up for guilt and lack of time.
Plus, one of DeMille's better novels.[A quick note, The Charm School was published in 1988, which was three years before the Cold War ended (1947, give or take, to 1991) so reading with some degree of historical context is helpful in appreciating the enemy tension and spy craft at that time, as well as a generous indulgence for the very unsophisticated technology (I mean, payphones and operators…)].
For one thing, I enjoyed many of the book's lengthy dialogues, which reminded me of all the times, in other books, I've wondered just when it was that the characters actually communicated to each other something besides plot points.* Speaking of plot, though...What had to happen was simple: the Charm School itself had to live up to the opening of the novel, which is when we first hear of it.
But a lot of books start out well--because there's still a sense of mystery.
Here, DeMille seems to have started with the Charm School, his central mystery, and then worked backward to that terrific opening.
Nelson DeMille, a versatile author whose Long Island adventure yarns make good reading, is proud of The Charm School, pointing out in an introduction that it has been in print since 1988.
The setting is the Soviet Union of that era.
When they are discovered, Hollis kills two KGB guards.
From there, the plot curdles until Sam and Lisa find themselves prisoners on the inside of what is the Charm School of the book's title.
There are times when it reads like a guide to life in the Soviet Union in the 1980s.
Espionage stories set during the premise of the cold war are probably the most alluring of all backdrops that thriller writers can think of.
Two of the world's super powers while in all external appearances behaved like bosom buddies hid daggers beneath their smiles and behind closed rooms plotted how to outwit each other.
The first 100 pages showed a lot of promise in this plot and then as suddenly as it had appeared, the promise disappeared.
DeMille puts a lot of focus on Russia during the Cold War era and to his credit I must say that the plot covers some of the pros and the cons of this enigmatic landscape.
Also very educational, as it describes details of the lives of American diplomats working in a US embassy in a hostile (at the time) nation, the old Soviet Union.
One little detail that sticks in my mind is the mention that US diplomats are some of the most patriotic Americans you could ever hope to meet--but yet they are just not "into" the popular culture.
I am now writing mysteries, myself, Ranch Park, It's A Place For Trees, and Viking It Is--although mine are of a much more tame domestic nature, as I don't have the knowledge and experience in international affairs to be able to write an international thriller such as this.
The unlikely premise of this thriller is so scary and diabolical that it draws you into the book like a magnet.
What if there was a school in Russia that trained Russians how to be Americans?
What if those "Americans" were mainstreamed into our society to "report back" to Russia?
This is a 536 page book that I could not put down.
Also, the politics in both Russia and the United States was intricately complicated and held consequences for both the operatives and innocent victims.
I really liked that nothing was ever as it seemed.
I would enjoy this book being made into a film.
What an American wet dream! 0 stars for character development, 0 stars for realism, 0 stars for story-telling, 1 star for the idea of a Charm school which I did find interesting.
BRILLIANT!!
This is one of my most favorite books ever. It was my introduction to espionage and romantic suspense. A real thriller that should stand the test of time.
Acțiunea se petrece la Ambasada SUA din Moscova in anii '80 când relațiile ruso-americane erau reci ca gheața.
Agenți secreți, CIA, KGB se tot iau la trântă ca să vadă cine din ei e mai tare.
In mijlocul unei păduri de pin este un "stat în stat" unde se educă cetăteni ruși ca aceștia să devină mai târziu americani cu acte în regulă.
Desigur se descrie cultura rusă, si oamenii de această naționalitate așa cum sunt văzuți ei de către americani.
Aceasta carte - boevik 😁😁 este indulcită si cu o poveste de dragoste, așa că avem de toate.
DNF 9 hrs into the audio. Way too boring to keep my interest. There was no way I could listen to 15 more hours.
I've read the most of the John Corey series which is also by Demille, and whilst reading The Charm School, you'd never know it was written by the same author.
Sam Hollis, an undercover operative who has been living in Moscow for the past 2 years is called by his long-time friend and colleague Seth Alevy, to find out everything he can about the Charm School and what the Russian's intentions are.Anybody who loves a good Spy Thriller, this book is for you!
I think this would make a killer movie!Towards the end I was up past my bedtime because the book just sucked me in!
L'ho letto in italiano anche se l'edizione italiana non esiste, non c'è nei book store.
E infatti c'è tutta l'URSS del KGB, così come l'immaginava l'occidente.Il mistero della scomparsa di un ragazzo americano scatena la ricerca di un'oasi "statunitense" vicino a Mosca, ma tutto si svolge con estrema discrezione per non compromettere i colloqui distensivi tra le due superpotenze.Questo libro sembra archeologia perché oggi, con tutta probabilità, gli interessi spionistici sono orientati altrove, ma basti pensare alla deposizione di Nicu Ceaușescu, e quello che è stato trovato nelle sale di tortura rumene, per rendersi conto che la fiction non si discosta poi molto dalla realtà.Si legge d'un fiato, scritto bene.
L'edizione che ho letto è circa la metà delle pagine dell'originale.
