https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16401.The_Luck_of_the_Bodkins
Troubles send our fragile hero to the Riviera, in Cannes, to calm his nerves in a resort hotel , even during the Depression the affluent need to relax.The adoring Bodkin is writing to his love a letter of his passion for her, but he is not the brightest bulb in the neighborhood, and tries to ask a fat man at a nearby table to help him with a spelling problem, turns out this is a Hollywood Mogul fighting with his pesky sister-in-law Mabel Spence, she has a ghastly message from scary Grayce...pardon me the rotund gentleman is called Ivor "Ikey" Llewellyn, a most unpleasant person to be around and the interruption causes a stormy reaction, to put it mildly...This episode permits the paranoid, Movie studio boss to have bad thoughts a plot by his young, former actress wife, Grayce , safely in Paris, to smuggle her pearl necklace by customs in New York without paying taxes...
“Into the face of the young man who sat on the terrace of the Hotel Magnifique at Cannes there had crept a look of furtive shame, the shifty hangdog look which announces that an Englishman is about to speak French.” It is such sentences that make me an ardent fan of Wodehouse. He was a master of the English language.BTW, I get this look whenever I am about to speak Hindi!
Imagine rip-roaring scenes full of misunderstandings as well as a good dose of film-making in-jokes.I did enjoy this enormously, surprisingly, giggling throughout the entirety of the novel, and even bursting into laughter a couple of times (I shall never look at the word ‘inexplicable’ in the same light).
If like me you were unsure about Wodehouse, do try this novel.
There are two other stories with Monty, one prior to this one (Heavy Weather) and a sequel (Pearls, Girls And Monty Bodkin), which I shall be trying :O)
What can one say? Wodehouse is an angel in human shape, dispensing joy and laughter whenever he sits down at the typewriter. I adore him. This book? It's the usual penicillin.
At one moment in the book I had to pause because Monty Bodkin (the Lucky Bodkin of the title) was compared to Leslie Howard and Clark Gable, both of whom were to star in Gone With the Wind four years after Wodehouse mentions them.
As he tries to win her back over the course of a six day crossing-of-the-Atlantic he has to thwart movie starlets (and boy, does Wodehouse nail the speaking patterns of the early mega-watt actresses like Katherine Hepburn/Bette Davis in Miss Lotus Blossom) novelists, movie producers, and the good intentions of his best friend Reggie.
Trying to summarise the plot in less than the three hundred pages Wodehouse uses would rather miss the point of this type of book but in essence Monty loves Gertrude, who thinks he likes Lotus Blossom, a movie starlet whom adores Ambrose, who thinks she has fallen for his brother, Reggie, whom has definitely got it bad for Mabel Spence, sister-in-law to movie mogul Ikey Llewellyn, whom has been charged with smuggling jewels for his wife Grayce.If the plot appears complicated you should try the resolution.
This is a top-notch Wodehouse.
It does have Monty Bodkin (whom I encountered in Heavy Weather as one of Lord Emsworth's endless string of secretaries) and an extra complicated, extra delightful plot, which takes place mostly on a ship from England to America.
Wodehouse is at the top of his form with his marvelous idiom, beginning with the very first, irresistible sentence: "Into the face of the young man who sat on the terrace of the Hotel Magnifique at Cannes there had crept a look of furtive shame, the shifty, hangdog look which announces that an Englishman is about to talk French." It's sheer hilarity from cover to cover, and wonderfully, it's even a little longer than most Wodehouse novels, a lovely bonus.
One of the most delightful of Wodehouse's novels, which is saying something. The likeable, idle-rich Monty, still in pursuit of winning his beloved's heart by holding down a job for a year, ends up on a cruise ship pursuing her to America after a little understanding. As a result he is drawn into the complicated affairs of the Hollywood elite, and ridiculous twists and turns follow before the happy ending. Brilliantly funny, well-written and full of sunshine. And alligators.
Read for Anglophiles group.
4.5* for this audiobook edition, narrated by Jonathan Cecil.Prime Wodehouse fare, with romantic entanglements, misunderstandings & colorful characters.
Although he avoids the mid-point stabbing Shakespeare inflicted on Julius Caesar, there are moments in Luck of the Bodkins when he clearly longs for the sweet embrace of death, most notably when the American movie actress Lottie Blossom has, due to the incompetence of Peasemarch, gotten hold of a Mickey Mouse doll symbolic of his undying love for Gertrude Butterwick, and won't give it back unless he signs an acting contract with the big movie tycoon Ivor Llewellyn so that Llewllyn will give her fiance a job so that...no, there is too much.
Let me sum up: it is a feast, one I only wish we could savor with the clicking of a projector in the background, with Albert Peasemarch, Monty Bodkin, and Lottie Blossom up on the screen in glorious sepia-tinted black and white.
Monty Bodkins is in love and engaged to Gertrude Butterwick, now that he has finally managed to figure out how to appear gainfully employed despite being independently wealthy.
Her cousin Ambrose Tennyson is engaged to the beautiful American actress, Lotus Blossom, and his brother falls head over heals for Grayce, the sister-in-law, for the man who owns the picture company Lotus acts for.

One of my favorite Wodehouses. Monty Bodkin and his beloved hockey playing fiancée, Gertrude Butterwick set sail for New York. But oh, what adventures there are to be had on a cruise ship! Smuggling, spies, broken hearts and renewed hopes for happiness; just the things a Wodehouse novel should have. All that and an alligator named Wilfred. What could possibly go wrong?
I'm going to go out on a limb here and rank Luck of the Bodkins as my third favorite Wodehouse novel, just below Leave it to Psmith and Code of the Woosters. It's the longest Wodehouse book I've read yet and probably has the most twists. Highly recommended.
Jolly good fun. At first I did not like the fact that this took place on a boat instead of a lovely stately home with aunts, pigs etc. However it soon grew on me and the humour was relentless.
I've been reading and re-reading PG Wodehouse, one English's great wordsmiths. One of the best opening of any novel every written:"Into the face of the young man who sat on the terrace of the Hotel Magnifique at Cannes there had crept a look of furtive shame, the shifty, hangdog look which announces that an Englishman is about to talk French." -- The Luck of the Bodkins, by P.G. Wodehouse
This is one of PG Wodehouse’s screwball comedies – there are five or six twenty-something protagonists who are variously in love with each other, plus a customs-avoiding jewelry-smuggling multi-millionaire, all trapped on a cruise ship from London to New York. Many hijinx ensue. Sadly, no one gets thrown off the side of the boat.
Wodehouse at his absolute best...the man never fails to brighton up ur mood, using simple situation and amazing language to represent everyday characters.
Also on board are Monty's pal Reggie Tennyson and his brother Ambrose, who has just been invited to come write scenarios for Suberba-Llewellyn Motion Picture Corporation.
As stupid as Monty and Reggie are, Ivor and Alfred were worse.
Wodehouse's men are usually pretty dim but for Ivor to believe MONTY is a Customs' Agent and someone else is a famous writer, he has to be incredibly stupid.
He really let me down with his obnoxious, annoying, stupid women.
She was supposedly very much in love with Monty but yet doubted him and never let him catch a break.
And it only gets better.The eponomous hero Monty Bonkin is also a minor character in the Blandings novel Heavy Weather This book picks up right where we left him at the end of that book making it a sequel of sorts though you defininately do not have to have read Heavy Weather first.
Set in London, New York and Hollywood this is a great farce, which will keep you laughing to the end.
But, as they tend to do, complications and misunderstandings galore arise to threaten the couple's happiness.The events of the book all take place on a transatlantic boat trip from France to New York, and feature some of the best examples of Wodehouse characters I've yet encountered.
While her commanding, vivacious, chaotic presence is the most common cause of the misunderstandings between Gertrude and Monty, Lottie, too, has engagement problems of her own.
The lost of this job may mean the dissolution of their engagement.
Of course it reaches a delightfully complicated boiling point.
And it’s only been a year since I read his name to the point of committing it to memory.
But now that I’ve had my first taste of Wodehouse, I feel like the 30-odd years that have come before now were lacking in some way.
There were a number of available titles, but I chose this because I liked the sound of it.
By chance it was the first in a series of stories about Monty Bodkin, an independently wealthy man who has fallen in requited love, but can’t seem to seal the deal.
I’ll be listening to Pearls, Girls, and Monty Bodkin next.
Monty Bodkin is happily engaged to Gertrude Butterwick – for the time being.
The same can be said for actress Lotus Blossom and writer Ambrose Tennyson.
Reggie Tennyson hopes likewise for him and spitfire Mabel Spence, sister-in-law of the successful movie producer, Ivor Llewellyn.
Llewellyn hopes Customs won’t catch him smuggling his wife’s pearl necklace into the States.
Amid hysterical misadventures and droll misunderstandings, Wodehouse injects a measure of social criticism, focusing mainly on the idle rich.
While Wodehouse’s tale of well-intentioned blackmail, broken engagements, and happy endings – complete with a full cast of vivid, strong-willed characters – proves amusing, it lacks plot.
The affable Monty Bodkin is engaged to honest, kind-hearted Gertrude but she suspects he likes actress Lotus Blossom who is quite smitten with Ambrose Tennyson, whose trouble-making brother Reggie has just fallen head over heel for Mabel, sister-in-law of American movie mogul Ivor Llewellyn, who is desperate to avoid smuggling a necklace through Customs for his wife.
As Monty says, there are "wheels within wheels" and meddlesome ship steward Albert Peasemarch isn't helping!
A madcap adventure employing Wodehouse's trademark humor, tangled storylines, and delightfully quick-witted British dialogue.
No one puts as much meaning into the words "oh" and "what" as Wodehouse!
This is a sequel to Heavy Weather, but because it takes place on a boat and not at Blandings Castle it's struck from the official series list and branded as a standalone Monty Bodkin novel.
But what a standalone: I enjoyed every page - there were only 358, and I wanted 358 more.
This is Plum at peak form; published in 1935 when - relatively speaking - the Talkies were still cooing their first words, The L.
of the Bodkins provided Tinsel Town a template for the Golden Age romantic comedies of the Silver Screen: up to and including the cheerfully abrupt Hollywood happy ending.
A rare Wodehouse that lost a bit of luster on re-reading.
I recalled it from 20 years ago (my early days as a Plumaniac) as perhaps the funniest of all non-Wooster Wodehouses, but can't hold a candle to the best of Mr. Mulliner or the Blandings Castle crowd (especially Uncle Fred).
There are plenty of funny lines here, but way too much plot for my taste: it's one of Wodehouse's self-proclaimed "Musical Comedies without Songs" where he spends too much time and energy jumping through the boymeetsgirl-boylosesgirl-loveconquersall hoops and not enough on the pure silliness and marvelous turns of phrase that make him the Master.
"Reggie Tennyson was the sort of chap who, discovering that you went to Butters & Butters for your socks, would wonder that you didn't know that Mutters & Mutters were the only firm in London who supplied the sock perfect: and when, having rushed off to Mutters & Mutters and stocked up with socks, you then bought a shirt or two in addition, would say: 'Not shirts, old boy. Not Mutters & Mutters for shirts. Stutters & Stutters. The only place.' "."Monty was beginning to experience some of the emotions which one may suppose a bashful goldfish to feel."
A convoluted plot, plenty of misunderstanding, a little bit of smuggling, attempts at spelling, and a pet alligator- but horror of horrors- NO IMPOSTORS! An excellent novel full of laughs- but of course, being Wodehouse- what else could it possibly be.
Monty and Gertrude always seem to have troubles in paradise, Will the night of doubt be dispersed and the morning of confidence ever rise?Assurances and pacifications seem to stand to no avail,In the end, will the good luck of the Bodkins stand proudly and prevail?Plot: 3 heroes and 3 heroines with their tangled love stories just about sums up the overall script!
Monty Bodkin, an amiable, simple and handsome young fellow, is engaged to be married to pretty Gertrude.
The moment the misunderstandings are sorted out after a million assurances from Monty, love starts blooming in the air for them.
