https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29378.Practical_Ethics
Singer's reasoning here is the lack of mobility, lack of bladder control, and "mental retardation" makes a life with spina bifida not worth living, and that people with Down Syndrome are not capable of rational reasoning, rather, leading lives primarily driven by emotions, and are therefore not persons ("although their lives may be pleasant enough, as the lives of children are").
(You'll be happy to know Singer excludes haemophilia: haemophiliacs "find life worth living".
It's so complex, but I do know there is absolutely no way I could ever support the right of a parent to euthanise a infant with Down syndrome.
Reading this book will be an eye-opening experience for many.
What is the value of one human life compared to another?
Because of this structure, Practical Ethics needs to be read in order.
It will be no surprise that Singer gets plenty of flak on his conclusions, some of which comes from people who didn't get the whole picture.
Regardless of whether I agreed or disagreed with Singer's conclusions, Practical Ethics helped me to clarify my own position on complicated and emotionally loaded issues like abortion, euthanasia, animal rights and environmental ethics.
And No, reading Practical Ethics did not turn me into a vegetarian.
Of course this book is far from impartial. But it offer good and scrupulous arguments for his choices. The book is written in a very dry and unhelpfully, boring manner. Yet the content of the book is far from boring.I'm not going to write more on this review, my dog is barking at me to take him for a walk.
Singer goes on to discuss different conceptions of equality, ultimately arriving at the one that forms the basis of applicability for his system of ethics.
My interests don't count for more simply because they're MY interests, for example.From there Singer applies preference utilitarianism with the above mentioned conception of equality to what he considers to some of the biggest ethical problems of our time.
With that it is time for us to turn our attention to these issues.Speciesism: In terms of the scale of the suffering involved, and the damage done to the environment thereby, speciesism and the manner in which humans treat non-human animals is most probably the biggest ethical problem facing the world today.
Lots of good thinking here, but Singer's *way* too quick to consider something "conclusively demonstrated." I found his animal rights doctrine a particularly grotesque pill to swallow, and his arguments regarding abortion rather slipshod reasoning (although not so much as the roe v wade decision itself) -- I'm staunchly pro-choice, but certainly not due to Singer-style arguments.
Until my comrades in the neurological arts get off their duffers and solve this problem, armchair ethicists like Singer will lead the way.(Singer, featured on the cover, is far too thin and needs badly to eat some delicious animals.
Singer's writings about equality, the ethical treatment of animals, and ending world poverty are best, it seems to me.
Singer argues that among the varieties of conceptions of equality, we should choose equality of interests of persons (self-conscious rational creatures) and anything capable of experiencing pain or suffering.
Regarding ending world poverty, if we think it is always better, all things being equal, to help someone who is suffering so long as we don't sacrifice anything of comparable moral significance, we should.
The ethical treatment of animals and the attempt to end world poverty read as two of the most powerful and convincing arguments I have ever read.
Then proceeds to explain why, if you agree with the example, which most people do, you have agreed to something that most people would find unacceptable.Using this process Singer explores the consequences of applying a Utilitarian ethical system to many of the toughest questions; abortion, euthanasia, animal rights, the environment.
Even if you have a utilitarian ethic when you start reading Practical Ethics, you may find yourself, apparently, agreeing to statements you would reject normally.The one issue with this book is that Singer moves quickly.
They just repeat decisions they don't really understand.I was a utilitarian before I read Practical Ethics, but it forced me to examine what that means in the extreme.
Interesting, not that I agree with all of it.
His view of ethics builds up throughout the book, too, so if you don't read all of it, if you read some of it out of context, then he sounds pretty awful.It also should, if you're properly thinking about it, make you wonder why our society -- globally -- is the way it is, if we claim to be so concerned with morality.
Why do we let things go on the way we do?I do agree with a lot of his conclusions, but not because I've necessarily gone through the same thought process.
Singer then applies this principle to such ethical quandaries as: affirmative action, the treatment of people with disabilities, animal rights, abortion, euthanasia, infanticide, poverty, xenophobia, and the environment.
Given the principle of equal consideration, there’s really no difference between testing cosmetics on rabbits and testing them on intellectually disabled humans.
4) Singer concludes that the life of a full grown pig and the life of an intellectually disabled new-born human are largely equivalent since these infants have only a low level of consciousness and lack developed interests.
The sharp reasoning and clear language of the author will lead you on an intellectual journey where you will think through the variety of topics (e.g. abortion, infanticide, euthanasia, animal suffering, poverty, global warming, environment and ethics itself) and quite possibly will change your position on some of them at the end.You probably won't agree with every conclusion in this book, but it will give you a solid framework for ethical reasoning in the variety of situations.The author builds upon his previous arguments in the book, so you should not skip parts at the beginning.
Among these are his views on animal rights and the treatment of the mentally deficient and infants.
He speaks a great deal against Speciesism, but seems to practice his own form of it when he expects treatment of animals to be at a certain level simply because they are animals with feelings and because they meet his unique definition of personhood.
However, he denies the same standard for humans, basing one's treatment of them, not on their humanity, but on what level of human development they have attained or have failed to attain.
"Praktische Ethik" ist ein Standardwerk in der ethischen Lehre.
Peter Singer behandelt ausführlich die Grundfragen, welche sich beim Thema Moral und Ethik stellen.
Dank der leicht verständlichen Schreibweise, ist das Buch auch für Einsteiger und nicht Gelehrte geeignet.
Grundsätzlich dies die Auseinandersetzung mit diesen Gedanken ein Muss für jeden Menschen, der sein Leben besser verstehen und führen möchte.Somit spricht eigentlich nichts gegen das Buch, das hier von mir auch empfohlen wird.
Seine Argumente und Schlussfolgerungen basieren auf dieser philosophischen Strömung, mir der ich nicht konform gehen kann.
Meine Ergebnisse widersprechen somit seinen und ich empfinde Singers "absolute" Resultate als falsch.
Trotzdem, interessant und lehrreich.
I haven't read this book.
Instead Peter said we should be boycotting this thing that calls himself a philosopher when really he is just spewing bullshit.
I understand 90% of the comments about this book was pre April 2015 so no one knew.
But this "man" this "thing" preaches Ethics but then says disabled babies should be killed to save on the cost of health insurance.
How is this "Ethical"?
I would LOVE to wake up one morning and hear that his knees have been bashed in to the point of him being paralyzed and have him be denied health care and killed via lethal injection.
I liked the chapter "Why Act Morally?" the best. It delved into some interesting but unresolved problems of the foundations of ethics, discussing the tension between self-interest and universality, and the difficult example of happy psychopaths. However, his tentative conclusion that the justification for ethics is that it makes you happier isn't entirely convincing. How odd that the branch of philosophy that's among the closest to our daily experience, ethics, is an area that's still in a surprisingly primitive state despite thousands of years of study.
Finally finished this book. Took me a while to get through because I was initially only interested in a few chapters. I think this is the kind of book that you can get by with reading only the chapters you're interested in. His views are very consistent and he explains them quite well, although I think that he could be a lot more succinct. I suspect that it is as lengthy as it is because he has a lot of critics and need to take slower, more careful steps in his phrasing.
I bought this book while in college for 50 cents. I still refer to it. For any person wanting a primer into ethics, this book is a good start. Singer lays out clearly ethical scenarios and possible solutions.
Interesting and challenging book. I don't agree with many of his conclusions but he has put a lot of time into creating a strong argument for his views.
This is the kind of "humanist" BS that you are likely to find everyday on Facebook.
This book made me a vegetarian. Do I need to say more?
What accounts for the difference?]### Conclusion Of The AuthorThe view of the author is then that abortion is moral before the fetus has reached the point at which they can feel pain, which he places at around 18 weeks (more than 4 months).He then goes on to mention that older fetuses and babies are not self-aware and therefore have a more limited right to life, more akin to the animal's right to life.
Ethik vom Kopf auf die Füße gestelltIch möchte mir gar nicht anmaßen, mit den folgenden Bemerkungen eine wirklich erschöpfende Bewertung des Konzeptes ethischen Handelns, das von Singer in seiner „Praktischen Ethik“ vorgestellt wird, abzugeben, doch finde ich sein Gedankengerüst gleichzeitig so faszinierend und abstoßend, dass ich einige Überlegungen dazu anstellen möchte.In der Ethik geht es zwar um „moralisch“ richtiges Handeln, aber dennoch sind in diesem Zusammenhang Etikette wie „gut“ und „böse“ fehl am Platz, da sie eher der Theologie, oder dem Märchen – so ist der Wolf „böse“, Rotkäppchen hingegen „gut“ – entstammen.
He says that, although he generally opposes meat-eating, that it would not be wrong to painlessly kill and eat a healthy chicken that is not self-aware, has no family or friends that could from its death and that could not have been raised at all if was not going to be slaughtered.
When he talks about haemophilia, he at first says that according to one perspective, these children should not be killed because they have an expectancy for a life filled with some problems but more joy than suffering.
According to the total-view, however, these children are replaceable, if there is the expectancy that they will be replaced by a healthier, happier child.
Singer, a humane consequentialist, shows how we can apply a consistent concern for the welfare of others to resolve many ethical problems of daily life.
Singers approach to the ethics of killing animals changed forever my thinking about my food choices.
Singer proposes and justifies a few guiding principles: First, it is wrong to cause pain and suffering to any sentient creature, therefore current factory farming methods are unethical.
Singers clear and compelling arguments convinced me on the spot, and since that day I have been morally opposed to all forms of factory farmings Morally opposed, but not behaviorally opposed.
He then builds on this base theory and applies it to modern day ethical issues affecting society, and, I think, builds a very convincing case for each of them.It loses a star in my rating for the final few chapters (global warming, the environment).
The final chapter in particular (on why you should be ethical) was quite...
This is unfortunate, because it's supposed to be the chapter that ties everything you've learnt back to a personal charge.Nonetheless, the first two thirds of the book was amazing, and easily gets 5 stars.
I can't wait to learn more about ethics now!
A lot of what he says will sit uncomfortably with your basic instinct and gut feeling (no matter how broad minded you thought yourself to be), yet his arguments are compelling.
I’ve spent tremendous time try to rebut his arguments in my head.
And that’s always good.This book is exactly as titled; practical ethics.
I don’t think I’ve read a book that tackles such intricate topics with considerable clarity and simplicity.
Literally anyone can pick this book and have no doubt at any given page as to what Singer actually meant.
After all, Singer has no time for the theoretical.
If we are looking for a purpose broader than our own interests, something that will allow us to see our lives as possessing significance beyond the narrow confines of our own conscious states, one obvious solution is to take up the ethical point of view.
The ethical point of view does [...] require us to go beyond a personal point of view to the standpoint of the impartial spectator.
Thus looking at things ethically is a way of transcending our inward-looking concerns and identifying ourselves with the most objective point of view possible — with, as Sidgwick put it, 'the point of view of the universe'.Singer's arguments are powerful and clear.
What a treat.
This cogent book offers the reader a glimpse of the working of the mind of a first class philosopher.
The premise is that preference utilitarianism (or hedonistic utilitarianism) is valid.
This will lead to conclusions that are not quite (or yet) conventional.
A great part of the book is devoted to debunking speciesism.
It also covers several economic and environmental issues.
The book should not be treated as a manisfesto to be devoured unquestioningly.
Indeed, its chapter on metaethics is almost question begging, and exposes the underlying weakness of its thought system.
En mycket välargumenterad och på många sätt övertygande bok för en konsekventialistisk hållning till etiken. Självklart är den också provocerande i många av sina slutsatser. Jag måste fundera långt och länge i vad det är jag inte håller med om och varför - framförallt varför. En grundläggande fråga är förstås om jag håller med om hans definition av person och förståelse för självmedvetande. Mycket av hans argumentation bygger på detta. Intressant är väl att Singer inte är speciellt övertygad över den gängse argumentation för abort.
This is a nice book on the ethical questions we encounter in day to day life. By and large author has dealt with the issues from all the sides, except poverty where he misses on the chain of producers to consumers - how reducing rich people reducing the consumption is going to affect poor people involved in producing that good (in the sweat shops in the third world). Also I feel that the number of issues dealt with are less and there could be few more important ethical issues from day to day life one could discuss.
An essential introduction not just to ulitarianism (using preference ulitarianism) but to modern ethics in general.The version I read was the first edition which covered ethics related to killing concious beings, and the issue of poverty. Singer's views are easy to digest and he openly discusses criticisms of his views while offering defences against these.Very readable, and very interesting (and very short!).
