https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438025.Diary_of_a_Man_in_Despair
He also has a snobbish disdain not just for the greedy herds of bourgeoisie which he calls 'mass-men', but also the parliaments of swine in the Nazi government.
He knows the government was powerful, and that people disappear for saying the wrong things, or just by being in the wrong place at the wrong time.It is not a diary in the traditional sense, as it is not daily, nor was it intended to be private.
Because of this, the editor of the progressive weekly Der Spiegel wrote an editorial upon the re-publication in 1966(**) of Tagebuch eines Verzweifelten to remind his readers that there was an abyss separating Reck-Malleczewen's critique of Nazism from that of the modern German progressives (in the '60's the Social Democrat Party was still socialist).The last entry is dated October, 1944, when the German armies are being thrown back on all fronts, and is full of reports of people being arrested or simply disappearing.
The author is insightful, knowledgeable, educated, moral, and always takes a long view of the present, seeing it from the perspective of "the world of yesterday" and a future in which the Nazis receive what's coming to them.
The lying is most striking, how they twist the truth at all times, how both Hitler and Trump seem like psychopaths addicted to screens (movies for Adolph, Fox News for Trump), how they both are essentially puppets of industrialists/financiers behind the scenes and harnessed lower-middle-class fear and anger and nationalism to gain power and enrich themselves ultimately at great cost to the soul of their countries (I'm hopeful that the parallel ends before "ultimately").
DMD is one of the best books I've read recently thanks to these two things: the qualities of its probably half fictional narrator, and the openness with which he hates everything that deserves hatred--Nazis, of course, but everything they stand for.
Reck's narrator scorns everything that deserves scorn, and any book that reminds us of that is worth reading.
And above all you get the incredible sensation--like seeing a Greek tragedy--of reading about Nazi Germany while knowing what's going to happen (i.e., Reck's hopes for the defeat of the Nazis will be fulfilled, but he won't live to see the future).
I've never read a book so dark yet so beautiful in my entire life. Diary of a Man in Despair is a book that everybody should read, a powerful story of undying spirit in dire times.
The "mass-man" is a consumerist being who doesn't appreciate what life is really about—quality, reflection, art, etc.—but is happy to float in a world of "more," "production," and "progress." As a good conservative, Reck doesn't believe in progress, and living where and when he does one can see why.
This book, as well as being an interesting conservative critique of their rise, is a real testimony to what was happening in the country.
The only hope that Reck sees is that this moment in history is a psychic cleansing of the evils of the modern world.
Harendt considered this book as the best testimony on Nazi Germany. It has just appeared in French. The most striking chapter is the one where he lunches in a brewery with a few meters of Hitler. « I could have killed him ».With what the course of history is due. And we understand that german nazi resistance was done by young romantic people (Sophie Scholl) and old aristocrat who hated the plebs. Other people prefered exile, even interior exile.Reck-Malleczewen died in Dachau in 1945.
An interesting document, and worth spending some hours with, despite my 3-stars. The book consists largely of a rant, but a principled and entirely rational arch-conservative, confronted (at first-hand) with the utter madness of the Nazi regime. Reck lived in 'inner emigration', but ended up dying in Dachau. An honest man, a writer of well-known childrens' books, in a work gone berserk....
Reck writes in horrified, apocalyptic tones of Nazi Germany from 1936 to 1944.
From the beginning of the book, Reck utterly condemns everything about the Nazis and foretells a Second World War which will bring catastrophe to Germany.
He rails against nationalism, which he claims began with the French Revolution, and industrial technology, which he states has brought political disaster to Germany since 1848.
That is perhaps what makes the book truly extraordinary: Reck writes as if with miraculous hindsight and his analyses still have relevance today.
It's fascinating to view the rise of the Nazis and the parallel Nazification of German society through Reck's socially and politically conservative perspective - where criticism of the regime is just as much aesthetic as it is moral (because, to Reck, aesthetic and moral are pretty much the same thing - aesthetics and manners are a window and an outward manifestation of moral life).
Still, it's a fascinating conservative-tinged window into German life and culture before and during the war, as Reck documents his changing fortunes as well as those of his peers, his friends, and his town - while noting their reaction to their changes in circumstances through collaboration and, rarely, resistance.
He knew, from the moment they assumed power that the rise of the Nazis meant the destruction of his beloved German as he knew it, and he knew there was nothing he personally could do about it.
I also find it remarkable because, as much as that rage resonates, on a cultural/political level Reck was about as distant from me as possible.
A monarchist uber-consertive who loathed democracy, modernism, technology, mass-man, the middle class (who, much more than the German workers, embraced Nazism), and urban America, I doubt he'd have much good to say about me or my milieu, but damn if I don't find that irrelevant after reading this.I can't recommend this book enough.
For one, he is clearly not a fan of the Nazis, and reading his journal is like watching a car accident in the process - but in slow motion.
He really doesn't like their aesthetic or the personality that makes a "Nazi." It pains him that Germany accepted Hitler, and from the very beginning he pretty much lets the reader know that this figure will destroy the country.
His hatred for them is both funny in parts, but also terrifying - because reading back these diaries and knowing what happens - he really does capture the moments quite well.
"My life in this pit will soon enter its fifth year.
-- August 11, 1936 diary entryBeginning, appropriately enough, by noting Spengler's recent death, Reck-Malleczewen's sporadic entries provides a chilling account of German life under the Nazi regime.
His is an interesting voice -- arch-conservative, aristocratic, and completely disgusted with the Nazi regime.
The risk Reck-Malleczewen takes in jotting his thoughts down is tremendous: in one entry he mentions that he keeps the diary buried in the ground, collecting it late at night, and frequently changing its burial location.
Along with Reck-Malleczewen's "Bockelson" (AKA "A History of the Münster Anabaptists..."), this is a vital record of the rise of a totalitarian dictatorship, written with unusual clarity and terror, by a man out of time.
As Hitler prosecuted the Anschluss in 1938, Reck wrote:"You, up there: I hate you waking and sleeping.
I have no other weapon against you but this curse, I know that it withers the heart of him who utters it, I do not know if I will survive your downfall...But this I know, that a man must hate this Germany with all his heart if he really loves it.
Those two phrases don't seem to sit right together, although he wasn't the only German conservative to hate the Nazis - but he was the only one to write something like this.This is not a diary in the sense that Victor Klemperer wrote a diary, more a set of meditations on the state of Nazi Germany and the War that carry the date they were written.
It isn't populist, in that Reck was a true old school conservative, of aristocratic stock (so he thought, at least) and an avowed monarchist.What it is is a fascinating, brilliantly written selection of writing, from a man who loathed the Nazis and what he saw as their inevitable destruction of western civilisation.Reck was extremely astute - not only did he suss out the Nazis out for what they were, he also recognised long before the start of the war that Germany was going to end up going to war, losing, and paying a very high price.
I read Friedrich Reck-Malleczewen's diary in an English edition some years ago.
Reck-Malleczewen was a political conservative, a monarchist, even a snob, a converted Catholic, a noted children's books' author and a ship's doctor.
Initially he seems to have assumed that it would be just a ghastly, corrupt government, like others (he refers to rumors about Eva Braun, Hitler's concubine, wearing the state jewels of the Hohenzollerns and is disgusted by such amoral arrivism), but then he becomes conscious that Nazism is not like other regimes and will not stop until it has destroyed Europe.
The first year that they came to power, the Nazis proclaimed that duelling belonged to the natural rights of every man - a consistent extension of the philosophy of 1789 - and with much fanfare announced that all classes of society now had state approval for this method of solving differences.
Herr Roland Strunck, a journalist of a calibre that exceeded their usual level of a schoolmaster gone beserk....Strunck, then, discovered one day that a fellow Party member, a young lout, was carrying out Nazi tenets on sexual unrestraint by sleeping with Strunck's daughter.
Apparently well-known during his life as a writer of potboilers, "Diary of a Man in Despair" is Reck's secretly written account of life in Nazi Germany.
Really more a collection of set pieces or essays than a daily, diaristic account of life Reck mercilessly and hilariously skewers National Socialism, its adherents and bureaucracy, as well as "mass-man," capitalistic materialism, environmental degradation, and pretentiousness in all forms.
Hardly a radical leftist, as his critic of capitalism might imply, Reck was a self-describe conservative--a monarchist, in fact--but the venal grasping after power, money, and sex left him nauseous and hateful.
This book is just cool in theory but it's not that great
Marvellous!!! I'll be back to review this book, sooner.
I have hated you in every hour that goes by, I hate you so that I would happily give my life for your death, and happily go to my own doom if only I could witness yours, take you with me into the depths.Very interesting perspective on the National Socialist rule of Germany under Hitler - the author is a self-styled conservative aristocratic reactionary monarchist, a perspective you don't usually get in anti-Hitler writings.
Friedrich Reck writes "Diary" and keeps it hidden due to k owing if it were found he would be arrested because of how Diary portrays the Nazi regime and Hitler.
Reck states Diary of a Man in Despair is not despair for himself, rather for the German people.
I know this land is the living, beating heart of the world.
As I read the book I became curious about the man behind the writing.
The Afterword is also a valuable edition to the book because it explains more about Reck and his life.
He predicts the second World War, he understands the vastness of Russia and that Germany will be soundly defeated there, and much more that, as I said before, makes the diary seem more like a novel, looking backwards.The translation is easy to read and, although Reck-Malleczewen is in despair over the degeneration of Germany, he has what the Nazis never had: an overview of history and a sense of humor.
Whether you're interested specifically in German history during WWII or not, this is worth reading if only for the point of view of a man who feels he is watching the world crumble and only he and a few of his friends understand.
I will hate and curse you in the hour of my death.
As the enemies of the laughter of men, they are more afraid of humour than of a new declaration of war." "I think that those of us who are now gathering the materials for a written history of the Third Reich will be obliged, when we have combined it all into a single work, to call it 'The Revolt of the Mailmen and the Schoolteachers.'" A movie should be made about WWII from the perspective of the German people - from several perspectives within the German people.
Reck was a German arch-conservative and constant, bitter opponent of the Nazis who would end his life tragically shortly before the end of the war.
With extraordinary clarity and depth of insight, he identifies the apocalyptic course which German society had embarked on, a madness which he identifies as being the ultimate product of the French revolution and of modernity generally.
This is the angriest book you'll ever read, 200-odd pages of burning, lucid hatred for the moral degradation of Rcck's beloved homeland, of the apalling brutality and stupidity of the Nazis and of a society which is willing to follow them blindly off a cliff, and to lead much of the rest of Europe there with them.
I'm not sure how you give a ranking to someone's journal, but I found this chronicle very compelling.
Reck was an upper class German, who was a witness to the rise of Nazi Germany.
He writes very candidly about the decline of German civilization and despairs at his people's worship of HItler.
It's a sad commentary on what can happen to a people under the rule of a wicked dictator.Reck wrote this journal at considerable risk to himself and even took to burying it on his property.
He was eventually denounced and died in a concentration camp just months before the end of the war.
My first read from a member of the German aristocracy during WWII. What a well versed man! He wrote with honesty and insight beyond his age about the follies of "mass-man". His conclusions and philosophy presented in a secret diary tells of a country gripped by a regime that appealed to the basic greed of the middle/ lower classes. It should be required reading for high school and college history classes since it describes a non-Hitlerite German , caught in the whirling waters of evil.
Knowing that Friedrich Reck-Malleczwen does not survive the war killed me while reading this. I loved reading his words and his perspective is one that is in many cases unheard. I was also glad to learn that we both draw influence from Sophie & Hans Scholl. The Society of the White Rose were some the bravest non-military young people in the war -- most certainly within Germany.
Remarkably moving journal of a conservative, anti-Nazi German writer living under the Nazi regime. Provides not only a glimpse of everyday life under the Nazis but also shows a particular worldview - monarchist, anti-mass society - that did not survive the war (barely survived the first world war).
