https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1003725.Comet_in_Moominland
[Note: Rating increased from 3 to 4 stars after reading the first moomin book, The Moomins and the Great Flood.]Moomintroll’s quiet life is upended when foreboding images of a star with a tail send him journeying to speak with the Professors at the Observatory.
Meeting new friends along the way and forging through perilous adventures together, Moomintroll and his companions arrive at the Observatory where they learn a comet is headed towards earth.
Moomintroll must find a quick way home if he’s going to warn his family in time.
As I've said many times on this site, I dislike translations on principle - but I am trying to do something about my miserable German, and when I saw this book at Foyles last week it immediately seemed like a good idea.
I know the Swedish original well, and I figured that it should be easy to read and would improve my sketchy vocabulary.
I can hear it in my head when I'm reading, and it sounds exactly like the Swedish original.
It isn't Tove Jansson any more.If you know German, and haven't read it already, get yourself a copy.
Moomin and Sniff explore a path which leads to the beach, they play, look at nature and find a cave, but they feel uneasy as they start to notice patterns carved into trees and objects, even seagulls arranged into the shape of a star with a tail.
Moomin and Sniff set off on a journey to the observatory to find out what is happening.We really enjoyed the details in this story, and the ideas.
This review has been revised and can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
I simply don't understand how Moominmania could possibly have bypassed the United States when it swept through Europe?Comet in Moominland, the second in the series, follows Moomintroll; his rodent-like friend, the timid Sniff; and yet another pal, the clever tramp Snufkin, as they investigate the trajectory of a comet bound for Earth.
I frequently laughed out loud at some of the snarky passages, especially involving Sniff's vying for credit and the young Moomintroll's bashful crush on the pretty Snork maiden.I'm going to try to read the entire series.
A beautiful, ironic parody of the Armageddon-style killer meteorite movie, written before any of them existed.
There are so many brilliant little details.
I particularly loved the out-of-touch astronomers at the observatory, who have calculated exactly when the comet will strike ("possibly four seconds later," they add scrupulously), but seem completely uninterested by the fact that it will wipe out everyone in Moomin Valley.
In case you're worried, though, the Moomin family is more than a match for one little rogue comet, and Moominpappa's wonderfully absurd solution saves the day.
And honestly, to and for me personally, Vivica and Kurt Bandler's translation (and I finally did locate a reasonably intact and not too shabby copy online a couple of years ago) it still and absolutely feels as THE German language version of Komet im Mumintal I love the most, as the more recent translation by Birgitta Kicherer at least in my opinion leaves much to be desired and in particular that it fails to present far too many important details, such as for example patently ignoring the little silk monkey, who though strangely and incomprehensibly is still featured in Tove Jannsson's accompanying illustrations but textually seemingly forgotten by Kicherer (although according to readers who have read the original Swedish version, Kicherer supposedly does include parts that were left out by the Bandlers, but I for one simply cannot handle the removal of the silk monkey).
Najlepsze, co można czytać, kiedy człowiek umiera od sesji! Muminki mnie zaskakują: może odzwyczaiłem się od bajek i dziwi mnie to niemalże "prorocze" poszerzanie drużyny mieszkającej w dolinie? może nie spodziewałem się znaleźć tak dużo smaczków dla starszych czytelników? może nadinterpretuje pewne wzorce osobowe, czy zachowania bohaterów dostrzegając w nich konkretne syndromy psychologiczne? Mimo powyższego moje zdanie o najbardziej znanej serii Tove Jansson wyklaruje się najpewniej jeszcze po kilku częściach cyklu :) PS To WYDANIE zawierające dziesiątki ilustracji autorki jest NIESAMOWITE.
Just revisited this book for the first time in a long while by reading it aloud to my 6 year-old.
This perhaps was not the best choice of book to read aloud to a child who is already prone to fanatsizing and worring about calamatous events, such as the sun blowing up.
I mean we know they're not wiped out by the comet because of all the sequels), and he enjoyed it a lot, and I loved reading it aloud.
Just delightful! I never read these as a child, but I believe this is the beginning of a new obsession.
Maybe the rest of her body of work as well, if I have the time or enthusiasm.I read The Moomins and the Great Flood a while back, so I started from this one, which got things going on a larger scale.
Moominmamma just keeps going with her chores and bakes a cake, but Moomintroll and Sniff travel to the Observatory of the Lonely Mountains to find out more about the approaching comet.
On their journey they meet other familiar characters who join the Moomin family.I love the Lonely Mountains.
Don't walk the already trodden path, it's been used by those who are afraid."But that's how it is when you start wanting to have things.
Everybody knows what a Hattifattener is, really - description is almost superfluous.The plot is epic compared to those in the volume of comic strips I read - the fate of Moomin Valley (and the rest of the world, really) is at stake and an arduous journey is undertaken to request knowledge and help in saving the day.The gentle satire is present but in lesser quantity - a philosopher who states that everything is Unnecessary, is never-the-less rather keen on creature comforts (all the more so because he is a creature - a Muskrat)and not being destroyed by the impact of a celstial body.

The Moomin books are always deceptively simple. I love how Jansson balances the matter-of-fact and the bizarre, and always constructs her stories with her characters front and centre, with all their flaws and quirks and earnest humanity. I always feel like I've learned some big things after reading these. I was especially interested in checking this one out as I hadn't read it before, and it's the first appearance of Snufkin, who is in a lot of ways my favourite character.
Taidetta <3
Jak už jsem zmiňoval ve své recenzi  Tatínek a moře, byla mi v dětství většina muminích příběhů upřena.
Nemají moc času a tak se musí vydat přes (kometou) vysušené moře (velmi zajímavá, lehce psychydeliká část).
Můžeme tak vysledovat docela zajímavý oblouk - knihy z prostředka cyklu jsou hravé.
Ty na jeho okraji mají docela závažná témata a ne úplně lehkou atmosféru, s minimem jinak běžného komična.Dost možná je to přesah, který děti až tak nevnímají a prostě si užívají příběhy.
(A comet about to destroy the world.) Comets destroying the world are on my top ten "Scary" list....Anyway, after months of forgetting about this book and then remembering it, I don't know what made me start it after surving a huge earthquake in real life.
(Not very smart of me.) I think that somehow (despite the title) I forgot it was about a comet hurtling toward earth.
But it is basically a funny book.
There also may be a book about a great flood---this book keeps mentioning it.
(???) Comets, floods ....
But really it is a funny book!
(Funny, but without any comets.)
It's been a long time since I've visited the land of the Moomintrolls, and it truly has not dulled with age. Just as beautiful, interesting and odd as I remember!
Muminki są GE-NIAL-NE! A scena w sklepie to po prostu mistrzostwo świata <3 płakałem ze śmiechu z pięć minut :D
Veď už len to, ako ľahko do svojej domácnosti prijali Bizama, pesimisticky filozofujúceho ondatriaka(?).V detstve ma Muminovia obišli, takže ich čítam prvý raz až teraz na staré stredné kolená :)Slovenský preklad:Čítala som vydanie z roku 1997, ale so starým prekladom z roku 1979.
[Mumrik, Mumintroll a Sniff po kolektívnej sebazáchrane pred pádom do priepasti](s.
70)[Pekná ukážka, ako sa za cca 40 rokov posunie význam slova.]- Ale niečo pred tú kométu zaveste, nech môžem v pokoji uvariť polievku.
[Snorka]Mumintroll zavesil pred kométu prikrývku.
Ensimmäinen itse lukemani muumikirja! Olin toki kuullut sen lapsena, äiti luki meille melkein ne kaikki. ♥ Jännimmät kohdat muistin sieltä yli kolmen vuosikymmenen takaa.
The enjoyment is in the journey and the heroic and cowardly antics of the Moomins and friends and, for children and adults alike, a comfort in returning to the warm bosom of Moominmamma at the end.Jansson's illustrations are superb, of course, being an integral part of the story and its tone, which can be rather grotesque at times - the stiltwalkers put me in mind of Dali's Temptation of St Anthony.
A bold image for a children's book, and there are others just as eschatological.
I received the first four newly released Special Edition Moomin books for Christmas and firstly I need to comment on how beautiful they are!
The covers, illustrations and extra details are just beautiful and a great quality!Comet in Moominland was a very fun, adventurous read which introduced all of the main characters!
I loved the whimsical nature of the book, in that even with a Comet looming overhead, the Moomintroll and friends still find time to battle a crocodile, walk on stilts over the sea and find new love!
Altogether a very quick, enjoyable read that I cannot fault!
These books are big classics here in Finland, but it had been ages since I'd last read them, so I felt like picking them up again. I'd half forgotten what a charming, unique fantasy world Tove Jansson creates here, with her lovely characters and her use of language (though I read these in Finnish translation from the original Swedish). Somehow books like this comfort me and make me believe that life will be all right. At the same time the books subtly say a lot of things about life and people, without preaching or appearing to make a point.
Unha riquiñura de libro, mais a Tove Jansson xa podía ter rebaixado o machismo porque mimadriña...
Kocham niezmiennie i śmieję się na głos.
Charming and delightful. The illustrations are just as charming. If you haven't met a moomin yet, rectify that asap.I think I like Snufkin and the Muskrat the most but Moominmamma is the mother all children's books should have, and Moomintroll is simply adorable.
Muumipeikko ja pyrstötähti ei oo koskaan ollu mun lempparein tarina, mutta jotenkin tällä lukukerralla tarina aukesi aivan eri tavalla!
En mysig start på Mumin-serien. Många personligheter man känner igen både sig själv och andra i presenteras i boken, och jag tycker om hur Jansson beskriver skräcken för jordens undergång. Även Sniff och hans kattunge är en fint berättad sekvens, och som jag känner igen mig själv i.
(The very first Moomin book, The Moomins and the Great Flood came out in 1945, so the Moomins celebrate their 65th anniversary this year.) The Moomin books in general are self-contained enough that the reader can start with any one of them, however, Comet in Moominland introduces many of the family characters in the series, including the Snork Siblings and Snufkin, who will go on to become some of Moomintroll's closest friends.
Can they get back in time to warn their family and friends?There are so many things to like about the Moomin books.
