https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3758.Casino_Royale
(A-) 80% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond, embittered professional killer, gambles on humanity and love, while we learn the intricacies of baccarat.
Therefore, I would like to offer my personal assessment, based on the debriefing reports and my own long familiarity with the subject.It is true that Agent 007 had somewhat compromised the operation by letting himself getting caught by the Target, otherwise known as “Le Chiffre”.
It is obvious from Miss Lynd’s unfortunate reaction that the feeling was mutual.Based on the aforementioned reasons, I propose that we keep Agent 007 in active duty as he had proved that he was able to overcome his personal weaknesses for the good of the Service.
Over the years I have enjoyed watching the action movies starring England's favorite 007 spy, yet, until now, I had not read any of Ian Fleming's classic books explaining Bond's origins.
Spies and double agents abound, and newly minted 00 agent James Bond is sent to the Casino Royale to track agent Le Chiffre back to SMERSH and foil the Russian's plot.
Because this is Fleming's first Bond story, the novel is more about Bond's background in the service and less about chasing the villains across the globe, as fans of the movies are familiar with.
I would have thought, that the Bond books wear their status as fantasy more clearly than, say, the Latin American Magical Realists, but this point appears to pass people by.The next thing to notice about James Bond is that he is pretty clearly a broken person.
The other characters have not and this is why those characters are kinds of ghosts within the books and are in some sort of way not worthy of interacting with Bond.The villains have in fact chosen the wrong values.
I am reminded of when you go back to watch the first episode of a sitcom while you are 8 or 9 seasons in and none of the characters are developed or comfortable yet.One thing that surprised me was that the more recent Casino Royale movie did include most of the story from the book (view spoiler)[trading Texas Hold-Em for Baccarat (hide spoiler)].
It had been years since a bond movie include plot lines or plot points from Fleming's works, it was kind of cool to see!If you just want a taste of Fleming's Bond, go to From Russia With Love, but if you want to experience the whole adventure, be sure to start at the beginning!
Of course the woman, Vesper Lynd, is amazingly good-looking and Bond alternates throughout the book with his warring feelings of contempt for her and wanting to f*ck her.No matter how charming Bond comes off in the films, the written Bond is a whole different animal.
Doesn't she know how annoying it is?Here's the part where he's being tortured and thinks about her being gang-raped: Through the red mist of pain, Bond thought of Vesper.
Bond often talks in this book about getting the "arrogant, private, cold" Vesper to bend to his will in bed.
Fleming not only pauses to show 007 and Vesper at work--the pair communicate vast amounts of information about each other in the way Bond offers her a glass of vodka, before her amused glance forces him to suggest a cocktail--but also illustrates the sensory experience of a European casino in the 1950s and how baccarat is played, with a round of twelve players dealt two cards with the option for a third, a winning hand adding up to nine and face cards useless.To separate the novel from the movie, I should state that while Goldfinger (1964) or On Her Majesty's Secret Service (1969) are the films typically cited by Bond connoisseurs as the best of the series, with Sean Connery and George Lazenby playing Bond alternately, I'm actually most enamored by Daniel Craig's debut as 007 in Casino Royale (2006).
Ian Fleming has some poetry in his veins! I would never have guessed that. much of the prose in this spy thriller is basic and almost ostentatiously declarative. prose from and for a man's man, I suppose. but every so often, we have lines like: In his mind he fingered the necklace of the days to come.The moonlight shone through the half-closed shutters and lapped at the secret shadows in the snow of her body...Bond awoke in his own room at dawn and for a time he lay and stroked his memories. so
by the end of the novel, Bond - who has been experiencing some existential angst and is questioning whether or not he wants to continue with his chosen profession - decides to stick with his job as a secret agent because he has had his heart broken.so here's what we know:- Bond is an old school sort, and has strong chauvinistic tendencies in his professional work.
Vesper is a defining person in Bond's life, no matter how much he may want to discard his memory of her.
Fleming describes a decidedly more vulnerable and human Bond than has been portrayed in films.
Fleming, then a 45-year-old first time writer, drew from his experience as a British naval intelligence officer during WWII and journalist to color his narrative about a secret agent.
Bond, a talented card player, is sent to beat and discredit a rogue Russian spy in a high stakes baccarat game.
He is accompanied and supported by a beautiful English operative and Felix Leiter, an American CIA agent.A good beginning, not what I expected, but entertaining and drawing the reader on to more Bond adventures.
For, at gambling, the deadly sin is to mistake bad play for bad luck."Bond certainly knows how to order a drink:"A dry martini," he said.
I'm going to patent it when I can think of a good name."His attitudes about women were particularly depressing: "As he drove, whipping the car faster and faster through the night, with the other half of his mind, he cursed Vespa and M for having sent her on the job.
These blithering women who thought they could do a man's work.
In Casino Royale, Bond infiltrates a high stakes baccarat game in order to bankrupt and ultimately ruin a Russian operative, Le Chiffre.
I thought the movie version was traumatic....but the book's description is so much more gruesome.
It is definitely not for the feint of heart.The book has 3 distinct sections -- the baccarat game at the casino, the kidnapping and torture, and the aftermath.
I'm glad I chose to listen to the audiobook as as I don't speak French, German or Russian and would have completely flubbed my way through a lot of wine, food, character and place names throughout the entire novel.
I might go a step further and say, a profession for every man and this man is of his profession, for James Bond is a psychopath and one would need to be in order to do the things his job requires of him.
The movie versions of the books have conditioned people to like James Bond, portraying him as a dashing man's man who takes what he wants and discards the remains when he's done.
You watch the movies for fun and come away with a warm-fuzzy.
Movie Bond likes to make ravaging love to his women.
But I thought I would add a few of the Fleming novels to my read list and I always like to read the debut novel of any author, especially if it's a series.
Casino Royale is not considered one of the best of the novels by critics, and I can't say I concur because I haven't read any of the others yet, but I can understand after reading it.
I gave it 4 stars, but 3.5 is closer to my thinking.
About what I expected although there was more "serious" romance than I thought there would be.
I think I'll read From Russia With Love next and see where to go from there.
I remember watching it with my family and my dream then was to become just like James Bond.
I watched all the Bond movies that Daniel Craig starred in ever since that Royale movie.
While reading the novel, I imagined Bond as Craig, and I don't think I can ever imagine him as someone else.
The novel itself is very short, but substance filled.
I'm a huge car enthusiast, I hate cold baths, and I don't smoke, but one day, I still believe that I'll be just like James Bond.
Read this if you want a short but satisfying crime novel.
Surprisingly most of the plot of the movie is in the book minus the parkour scenes in Africa. Bond is a cold ruthless bastard. It's hard to get past the sexism of the era (The book was written in 1953.), and there's a lot of it in here. The plot is slow and plodding in places, especially the beginning. The excitement picks up after the baccarat scene. It's definitely a cold war era spy novel with lots of double crosses and twists and turns. Definitely not the best Bond novel, but first books for a character rarely are.
However, along with the recent release date of "Spectre" (which I haven't seen yet), I wanted to discover how Ian Fleming's works influenced the successful movie adaptions and whether or not those movies lived up to the novel's expectations.
"Casino Royale" has been one of the first Bond movies I thorougly enjoyed watching, so my expectations as to my reading experience with this first Bond novel were pretty high.
In contrast to many other Bond movies, I can understand how this success came about since the adaption of "Casino Royale" was pretty well done, but after reading Ian Fleming's original, I am nothing but bored by even hearing the name James Bond.
I finally got to read a Bond novel...Yes, so far I had not read any of his books, but had religiously seen almost all the movies (especially the ones released during the late seventies and the early eighties - my teens and twenties).
In fact, he is interested in finishing the mission quickly so as to get down to the serious business of sexually exploiting the pretty girls in the story.In this book, Bond comes as surprisingly naive.
In fact, the story moves on despite Bond, not because of him.However, I liked the human face of the character.
The idea of James Bond and his mission is what draws me to the books, but not in fact the character of James Bond himself.James Bond, as a character, is an utterly unlikable, chauvinist, self-centered idiot, who happens to be good at playing cards but is otherwise pretty lucky to have anything go his way - whether it is his involvement with women or his actually staying alive.I first read Casino Royale some years ago, shortly before the film was released, and really liked it for the plot and the fact that a card game could pose more danger to the world's biggest villains than any attempts of arrest or assassination.
There's also a kind of philosophical discussion in which Bond reveals he is burned-out, a sort of nihilist/existentialist, and a sophisticated by hard, unsentimental spy who has murdered to achieve the 007 designation but who is decidedly not in favor of working with women.The mainly surprising part is the way Bind falls for Vesper, to a consideration of marriage.
The surprising turn of events in the end may have something to do with Bond's cooly aloof relationship with women in the later works of the series, but my impression is that the first Fleming glimpse of Bond is both tougher (the torture, the murders, the unsentimental hard edge to his talk and demeanor) and then softer (he speaks of love and marriage in a matter of days?!
David Niven is LUDICROUS as Bond, but good as this character who isn't Bond but is called Bond.
The return of Ursula Andress, this time as superspy Vesper Lynd (not to be mistaken for 2006's Vesper, completely different character), is notable; but the turn to the comedic and ridiculous is signalled by Bond having a child by Mata Hari, yclept Mata Bond.
There's a bit with a flying saucer in London that convinced me I was having an LSD flashback.Don't go into the film thinking it's a Bond flick and maybe it's okay...but frankly, it feels a little too Sixties-hip-via-Hollywood for me to do more than smile faintly.Why watch it, then?
My first James Bond novel which cements my opinion that Daniel Craig is the epitome of this steely MI man.
When one reads these pages one is struck by the description of the character and his actions; he's cold, aloof, calculating, isolated.
Bond likes the ladies, but they have their uses.
He's probably the most attractive man in the room.
In Casino Royale Bond is after Le Chiffre, a money man for a communist organization who has embezzled.
Bond challenges him at baccarat.
Bond's eventual capture and torture is spot-on the movie.
I'm looking forward to reading all 13 of this series.

This is the book where the character of James Bond is being introduced to the world.
Fleming did it not as well as his hero.Casino Royale is IMHO one of the better books with James Bond as main character.
It is a story about gambling, which is very aptly described by Ian Fleming and does transport you to the smokey casino where Bond plays for high stakes.
(Fleming has the skill to write very good about card games and golf, no-one could ever interest me for these activities but Fleming).The plot is very simple but it is all about the gentleman hero/spy and how he plays the game.
Bad. Also - incredibly, over-the-top offensive.
Bond wants the somewhat-withholding Vesper because he knows that making love to her will always "have the sweet tang of rape"??
When it wasn't repulsive and offensive, it was really boring.
I'm not saying it didn't have its fun moments, but they were surprisingly few and far between.Raymond Chandler is quoted on the back as saying, "Bond is what every man would like to be and what every woman would like to have between her sheets." What I find sad is that Bond does represent a certain ideal manhood - brutal, misogynist, macho, emotionally distant, disrespectful towards and distrustful of women.
Disturbing, to say the least.I want my morning back.
My dad used to bring us, his kids, to 007 movies when we were kids and I can still remember all the expensive cars exploding on the screen, shapely Bond girls in their bikinis, the high-powered guns and James Bond running, being chased by bad guys, escaping death in a millisecond precision.I am heartened to know that Casino Royale, first published in 1953, was the first James Bond book.
So, it was the intro book to all Bond novels.
So I kept reading till the last sentence that again made my jaw dropped.
Yes, this book can make your jaw drop several times.
Being as how I've seen the movie numerous times, I was initially leery of reading the original novel -- I hate reading the book AFTER I've seen the adaptation, because I never get the full enjoyment out of it that way.
(view spoiler)[Here I was, expecting that high-adrenaline ending with the heartbreaking loss of Vesper, and Bond going out to hunt down his next target, when it ended with Vesper committing suicide rather than the climactic fall of an ancient Venetian waterfront building.
And thankfully the film portrayed Bond as more of a charmer and ladies' man than the asshole who completely views women as objects in the book.
Her only good bit of dialogue comes towards the end of the book, when she and Bond are safe and on vacation together: "The bath had been filled for him and there was a new flask of some expensive pine bath-essence on a chair beside it with his towel.'Vesper,' he called.'Yes?''You really are the limit.
(and don't look at me like I gave the plot away, you knew it was going to happen.) I think it's the latter - once Bond and Vesper survive the kidnapping, all potential of being cool vanishes as they become the most irritating couple ever.
And I had read Thunderball years ago, though it was during the observation period after a car accident; it was the only book of fiction in the room and all I can remember is that I didn’t care for it.My first surprise was at how well written Casino Royale is, particularly since I had heard of Ian Fleming’s lack of critical respect.
Again, because I felt we didn’t learn much about the man, this compounded the feeling that there was too much “waiting around.” And then there is the matter of following a protagonist who never once manages to save himself.
Excellent spy novel, first of a long series. Fleming was a British Naval Intelligence officer in WW II. Bond and Bourne would make a great team.
It's fascinating, too, to witness his inner thoughts during that torture scene.There are, of course, objectionable moments but they, arguably, are attributed to Bond rather than necessarily to Fleming.
would each time have the sweet tang of rape' sounds hideous to modern ears, but Bond's inner monologue goes on to clarify that this feeling stems from Vesper's ultimate unpossessability: 'she would surrender herself avidly, he thought, and greedily enjoy all the intimacies of the bed without ever allowing herself to be possessed.' That it's Bond who falls in love and plans to propose after resigning from the service, while Vesper (admittedly also in love) is playing him made this book less misogynistic than I had expected.
