https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24812.The_Complete_Calvin_and_Hobbes
It would lessen the work if he had carried on past the point the fire left him, repeating old themes too many times, and forcing us to watch as the life leached out of these beloved characters - perhaps even passing the torch on to contracted writers to continue milking the cash cow ad infinitum.
The humour dances between many levels, brilliant visual comedy, erudite observation, poignant insight, laugh out loud slap-stick, and just damn feel-good stuff that touches everyone who has really lived.I fell into Calvin and Hobbes' world in my 30s and intend to keep dipping back in every time life gets me down.Go try it.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes....
Me and my sister, who is the coolest sister ever, got this for each other for Channukah one year.
In case you are less obsessed than we are, here is the one I mean:And in case you doubt my eternal devotion, I did this for my birthday this past year:
BUT, because I am almost unbearably lame, I have yet to take it off of its perch and read it.
Perhaps because merely to behold it brings me more joy than reading almost anything probably could.
But eventually I will read it.
And I will love it more than probably any other book in my library.
Everyone loves Calvin and Hobbes. I do, too. It's not just funny, it's also very wise. Tongue-in-cheek philosophy and sociology. Usually the best part of the newspapers that choose to publish it, newspapers that in turn got better per definition than newspapers who don't. But what about Donald and Hobbes?Funny, and a little bit scary. Take a look for yourself. :-D
I finished this some time ago, but I wanted to mark it here as one of the highlights of the year. I consider Calvin and Hobbes my dear friends and I hope they are still having fun someplace with a lot of snow. I don't have a kid of my own, but if I did, I would surely buy this for his shelves (I borrowed mine from the Library)
The philosopher John Calvin......and the philosopher Thomas Hobbes......with chillingly apt quotes for the day.Aw, forget 'em! Look at this Calvin and his friend Hobbes: better philosophers and way more funny.
Since:Because:Also:But:So:In conclusion:
There was big news in the comics world this week when we learned that the reclusive Bill Watterson, author of the beloved Calvin and Hobbes cartoon who has been retired for almost 20 years, has been quietly collaborating on a new comic strip, Pearls Before Swine.Calvin and Hobbes ended in 1995, and for those who were born after that, I think it's hard to convey how much loss was felt when Watterson stopped drawing.
(Kids, this was back when people actually read newspapers.) I stopped reading the comics page after Watterson retired -- nothing else compared to his brilliant and hilarious stories of a rambunctious boy and his imaginary pet tiger.
An incredible 10 year run, and he could have kept it going for much much longer but didn't want to grind the thing to dust and become repetitive plus I think Watterson got super sick of dealing with the constraints of newspapers and the increasing shackles and marginalization of comics in that medium...
And on a side note I find it fascinating to contrast the careers of Watterson and Charles Schultz.
Not necessarily saying either is right or wrong but the juxtaposition showcases some of the dilemmas and choices that face creators (especially issues facing comic artists of that particular era but certain issues still hold true today).
i specifically remember looking up transmogrify, kafka and phlegm in my mom's giant dictionary, and later on laughing when i learned about the philosophers calvin and hobbes.reading these is probably a big part of how i ended up being the kind of person who would enjoy a site like this.
i know personally i'd buy any official calvin and hobbes merchandise i could get my hands on, even now, but the fact that none exists is truly great in its way.
please please please read calvin and hobbes.
"It's a magical world, Hobbes, ol' buddy... let's go exploring!"
Često mi se desi da posle napornog dana, tužnog dana, zlog dana, dodjem kući i otvorim kolekciju Kalvina i Hobsa kao lek.
Nekad ni ne shvatim da težim ka njima kao zimi toploti.
I oni to upravo jesu, zbir slika i reči koje u sebi sadrže sve ono što nas čini ljudima i kroz svoja dva izrazito cela junaka priča priču običnosti naših života, jer mi mnogo volimo da komplikujemo nešto zapravo tako jednostavno.
I zato su Kalvin i Hobs nešto posebno, i niko, ama baš niko, ni svi ti velikani književnosti, velikani umetnosti, im nije ravan.
Do we choose our imaginary friends or do they choose us? If Calvin chose Hobbes, how do we explain episodes like this one: This comic pattern turns up throughout the story of C&H; Calvin reveals an overwhelmingly self-serving viewpoint and Hobbes rolls his eyes so hard he risks brain damage. If Calvin is as selfish as he seems, wouldn't he be tempted to dream up a friend who coddles his ego? Yet Hobbes is far from a yes-tiger, which suggests Calvin realizes how unrealistic his world-view is.
If Calvin chose Hobbes, how do we explain episodes like this one:	This comic pattern turns up throughout the story of C&H; Calvin reveals an overwhelmingly self-serving viewpoint and Hobbes rolls his eyes so hard he risks brain damage.
It is perilously rare that Calvin's sense of humor clicks with another character (besides Hobbes of course), which is part of why the following comic rocks the funny bone so hard:	In a lot of ways, Hobbes shows us what Calvin might be like when he matures; with softened ambitions, an understanding of the need for responsibility and a greater empathy for other people.
All the time sharing his adventures and observations with his imaginary best friends Hobbes a huge equally precocious tiger.Now this book represents the complete work by Bill Watterson of his Calvin and Hobbes comics from November 18, 1985 to December 31, 1995 and as sad as the fact is that there will be no more you have to admire the fact they have survived so long and stayed so fresh to this day (and no doubt beyond).If ever you want something to life your heart and make you smile the comic adventures of Calvin and Hobbes must surely be considered.
I delighted in the exploits of Calvin and his pet tiger, Hobbes, who was obviously a real and ferocious but lovable beast, but appeared as a stuffed animal to Calvin's parents, peers and superiors.When I opened my front door after walking home from the bus stop, I always wished I would be greeted with a tiger attack.When I got a snow day off from school, I strove for the creative and technical brilliance of Calvin's snow sculptures.Like Calvin and Hobbes, all of my games and sports eventually morphed transmogrified into Calvinball.Spaceman Spiff was my favorite astronaut hero.Buuuuuuuuuuuuuuuttttttttttttttt......What's interested me in my rereading of the complete collection of Calvin & Hobbes is that it's not written for kids.
It's a magical world; there's treasure everywhere, the days are just packed and scientific progress goes boink. But something under the bed is drooling. Weirdos from another planet? Homicidal psycho jungle cat? Revenge of the baby-sat? Or an attack of the deranged mutant killer monster snow goons?Nope. Calvin & Hobbes. Yukon ho!
Yes, Calvin has idyllic fun exploring the world outside him but he is also intimately oppressed and exploited by capitalist institutions on no uncertain terms, it's in spite of and because of this suffering that he cherishes reality and it's this love of freedom and natural beauty that is at the heart of Calvin's cynicism.Calvin's father is much like Kaczynski or John Zerzan, a misanthropic radical trapped in a soul-crushing white collar existence.
And like all children, Calvin uses his imagination as a therapeutic force in dealing with the trauma of intimate exploitation.
THAT'S how famous Calvin and Hobbes was/is!Then I noticed that I unconsciously knew a lot of lines from the comic so I started looking into it and fell in love with the cute artwork and deep messages so I bought the complete edition.This box consists of 4 books: the first has all the comics from 1985-1986; the second those from 1987-1989; the third those from 1990-1992; and the fourth contains all the comics from 1992-1995.Moreover, the first book has a long (but not boring) introduction by Bill Watterson himself in which he explains how Calvin and Hobbes came to be, what his creative drive was and also a little bit about his private life.Now, I don't think I need to say a lot about the comics themselves, so I'll keep this short:Calvin is a very imaginative young boy who has an imaginary friend: Hobbes, a stuffed tiger.
You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll transmogrify. Never will you look at a snowman the same way again. Calvin is the child I would be destined to bear if I had a child. Which is why I have no children. Watterson is a god.
Oh Calvin, you lazy, self-absorbed, spastic, nihilistic, narcissistic brat....It has been a good 15 years (in college) since I read this strip, and then only sporadically.
I had no clue as to the cutting social commentary that came out of precocious Calvin's mouth on a regular basis.
With the intervening years of adulthood and real life under my belt, this latest 2 week marathon session of the complete set was like reading it for the very first time.This is probably the most brilliant, hilarious, and consistently fresh comic strip EVER.
I'll leave it at that, because if I go into why I found it hilarious, it would suck all the fun out of it:
This is truly a masterpiece!
Calvin dances between cutting satire and existential crisis while dealing with his primitive imaginary tiger, Hobbes.
He creates a character of himself constantly, reinterpreting what happens around him in the context of interstellar adventures, prehistoric capers, and simple reflections as he rides a sled down a snowy hill.
If you want an easy yet educational read, or if you want your child to be able to learn lots of new words without dealing with too much "adult content," this book is a perfect fit for you.
Bill Watterson created a masterpiece of this, and it's influence on me cannot be understated.
If you didn't have Calvin and Hobbes in your childhood, I personally feel sorry for you.
and then I tried to get her to upgrade my tiger by reasonably asking her to take me to a zoo, and help me pull a heist to get a non fabric based tiger, to one up Calvin essentially.
The intro written by Bill Watterson describing how he started, wrote, and ended Calvin & Hobbes was great - well worth the price of buying all the comics I already own (but in one gigantic album set). I've been driving Brandi crazy by reading the comics to her and forcing her to read other ones. I've skipped through the book, but the comics i have stopped to read bring back so many memories. C&H is definitely one of the comics for the ages. And in a way they also remind me of a certain nephew of mine...
If you think about it, there are 10 generations of people that can say,  "I am Calvin's coeval. Or at least I was. I was six at the same time he was."  Ten generations of people feeling special. And I am one of them. (: Small, brilliant. Childhood that never ends. This book owns my dreams.
Not sure how one can sum up something so wonderful as this.
It was one of my favorite cartoons growing up, even though I didn't end up reading most of it back then, I'm glad I got the chance to catch up now.
I have the paperback boxed set, and didn't really start reading them until this year, reading them a little every day.
I was sad to see it come to an end, but it was a very fitting end.
And, as someone else here mentioned, Bill knew to quit while he was ahead, which is something I appreciate.
Paul gave me this for Christmas...I think in 2015, but maybe it was 2014 - a conundrum which shows my fluid and slippery relationship with time...and it was one of the best gifts I've ever been given. I already had most of the previously published collections, but this made my life complete. If I could take only one book with me to a desert island (I don't know why this scenario would even occur) then it would be this one. Bill Watterson, I love you!
Such a shame he retired from the strip because reading this anthology, very snazzy and brilliantly produced, just makes you thirst for more.
He quit before the strip got stale or even hinted of staleness.
It begins, continues, and ends inventive, hilarious, and wicked smart.
And what can be said about Hobbes, vulnerable to the attention of girls, tuna, a feline’s place in the sun, his inner tiger, and his companion’s disastrous schemes.
Loyal to a fault, wiser than your average stuffed tiger, and a master of the deadpan response.
Over the decades, the wit, social commentary, and understanding of childhood have not diminished.
They are eternal.I'll tell you that I teared up at more than a few pages throughout, and the last panel is one that will be framed and hung up on my wall as art one day.This edition is beautiful as a large coffee table book, and sure enough most of my mornings started off with a hot mug of Chemex coffee and a few dozen pages of Calvin and Hobbes.In some ways, finishing the complete collection feels like goodbye, but in many ways it is not, since I know that I will be re-reading it until my final days.
Hobbes and Calvin were My good companions in hard times. Even though it is hard to admit, those hard times were my early 20's. I met them in comic strips in my daily. I knew they were special the first time I saw them. And I am really Happy That i got to know them. Bill Watterson will always be the best thing that ever happened to earth. Thank you for your wonderful gift. About this complete collection, This book is 2 weeks of Pure fun. Read if you can get your hands on it. Thank you Bill.
"It's a magical world, Hobbes, ol' buddy... Let's go exploring!" Nothing I can write, will truly reflect the genius of this spellbinding, mesmerizing and all-so sweet collection of comic strips by Bill Watterson. A true masterpiece, in all senses of the word.
