https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/952.The_Five_Love_Languages_of_Children
The concept of the five love languages is very inspiring, and it was fun to figure out which is the best way to express my love to each of my kids. Of course it’s not that simple, not that black and white: they – just like everyone else – are multilingual. The five love languages may seem oversimplified, and some examples fabricated, but the book has its merits. It’s about love after all.
Beyond the fact that this is a book about how to love your child in the way that he or she best identifies and recognizes as love...because that alone is a smart and beautiful undertaking, this book begins by introducing the concept of learning to speak your child's love language and then includes a gentle list of things to remember about children.In this book, Chapman and Campbell explain each of the five ways a child expresses and receives love.
A perfect gift for a mother of young children, I wish I had read this earlier.
I thought my son's main love language was physical touch but it's also words of affirmation.
After reading Gary Chapman and Ross Campbell's tips, I began to incorporate more touch into every moment that I was near my son and a lot more words of affirmation.
She also loves to work on Punky Monkey Misisons projects together like crocheting, passing out Blessed to Bless bags to the needy and taking food to the homeless.As a mom, I found that The 5 Love Languages of Children was one of the best books I could have read.
Gary Champan and Ross Campbell use biblical principles, personal illustrations, and personal application to really open up your eyes to your child's needs.

For example, my daughter is a words of affirmation child, and when I correct her actions, she shuts down (even when I do it in the nicest way 'we can't touch that sweetie') My son is a physical touch child, and if I punish him by not letting him sit on my lap, it really hurts his feelings.
It talks a lot about how parents can do everything they want to show their children love, but if they are not showing the child love in the way they prefer it, the child may feel unloved, even to the most attentive parent

I've read the original 5 Love Languages and so this one was sort of a waste of my time.
I did find some valuable tips and interesting insights, but the 5 languages are the same for kids as adults, so it was the same book all over again.
Try quality time and see how your kid responds.
If their language is quality time and you send them to their room, they're crushed.
It was a good reminder to be sensitive to love languages when your kid misbehaves.
I'm Karen, a girl with lots of personality quirks, one of which is that I dislike pop psychology books that tell me I and everyone else fits into one of their created, ficticious descriptions.
I have to admit, I didn't even finish this book (I did read almost all of it though).
Probably most of us are familiar with the five love languages, they have enjoyed being very discussed pop psychology for the past 10 years.
This book applies those same love languages to children.
It takes time and effort, but that would be a better use of your time than reading this book.
This helps people understand why two kids might react completely differently to the same gifts, the same activities, and the same punishments.
In the book, Chapman and Campbell say that if the child is under the age of 5 that I should just not try to figure out the love language.
They also say that parents should not discipline or punish the child with methods related to the child's love language.
Should I simply hope that my discipline tactics are not in the same language as my son's understanding of love?Sadly, the authors do not offer a solution to this.
أحلم بيومٍ يستطيع فيه كل اﻷطفال أن يكبروا في بيوتٍ مليئةٍ بالحبّ واﻷمان ، حيث يمكن لطاقاتهم النامية أن توجّه إلى التعلّم والخدمة بدﻻً من اﻻلتماس والبحث عن الحب الذي لم يجدوه في المنزل هذا الكتاب يساعد في أن يصبح الحلم حقيقة للعديد من اﻷطفال ، ويساعد على بناء عﻻقات أسرية مستقرة ، وتطبيق قواعده تؤدي بالضرورة لنشوء مجتمع سليم عن طريق اﻻعتناء باﻷسرة ،من اصغر فرد فيها حتى اﻷب واﻷم ، والتي هي الأساس لمجتمع متوازن وقويّ
This book, like the other "Five Languages of Love" book, takes an interesting concept that could have been detailed in a 3-5 page essay but is instead stretched miserably with vague example stories and filler recaps so they could publish an entire book. Also, the section that declared that not all women work, so they should talk to their husbands about receiving a monthly budget to buy them gifts was particularly weird.
Now that you know my love language, will you use it against me?
Seriously, compartamentalizing love into five expressions is a bit limited.
To some it may help to understand why those "special" people don't meet our expectations, and how to accept their love expression (even though it may not mean much to my love language receptor).
I was one of the unusual ones that couldn't figure out my love language...
sort of like those personality/gift tests (dinc) that put me in the "I don't know" range.
Maybe there are 5 more love languages out there we have not discovered yet...
While I like the concepts and I think it had valuable information I had a hard time with it.
My other big hang up was that the book began by saying that it's hard to determine the love language of children 5 and under.
I didn't feel like this book applied to my family.
Most of the examples sounded like conversations with teenagers, and yet their is another book titled "The Five Love Languages of Teenagers".
I KNOW that they love me and reading this helped me forgive them for some lingering feelings I have.
Valuable information, didn't love the writing.
Our experimental test subject (first child) is still a toddler, under the key age for this book; the specific tactics aren't really applicable for under 4s, and you probably want to implement them before the teenage years begin (for everyone's sanity), so instead of plotting evil loving parental strategy we found ourselves mulling over our own childhoods and seeing them in an entirely new light.
You could almost use this as a pre-counseling book, if needed.Although nominally a Christian book you won't find it out of place anywhere - this is a parenting book, first and foremost.
But for the first time I'm understanding him, and this book may be the difference between a close relationship with him during these formative years, and a distant one.This is the best parenting book I've read.
In a nutshell: everyone shows love and desires love in return, but we do it in different ways.
Those "ways" are called languages, and are condensed into five types.
Receiving love in YOUR language fills your love tank.
A great analogy for the whole thing: Someone can be screaming as loud as possible in Chinese, but if you don't speak Chinese, you're not going to understand them.
I'm super familiar with the love languages, so I don't really know what I thought would be different about this book.
It was literally the exact same thing, just with examples pertaining to kids and then some thoughts later about how these apply to learning and discipline and so on.
It did say that in kids under 5, it is impossible to tell what their love language is, so in some ways major parts of the book didn't apply to me yet since my kids are 3 & 5.
It was good food for thought but nothing that will revolutionize my parenting or anything.
However, because this book is about the love languages of children, I will try to write about only that.This book is about exploring how your children (or spouse or co-worker or friend or what-have-you) communicates and how best to match your appreciation of that person to that person's preferred love language.
Here they are:(1) gifts (giving a person a present),(2) service (doing something/a chore for a person),(3) private time (spending time with that person),(4) affirmations (expressing verbal appreciation), (5) physical touch (snuggling, hugging, kissing, etc.).Chapman mentions that a child is usually five or older before it is clear what his or her preference is.
:)Now that I've completed the book, I'll think about the love language needs in more detail.
My biggest worry as a parent--or rather, ONE of my many biggest--is that my daughter will not feel sufficiently loved/appreciated/proud of/etc.
I think this will help most in conflict, which is perhaps the best place it can be used--a reminder of what my kids might need more of at a particular time and how I might offer it to her.
She needs to feel loved and unconditionally and on all levels.
Fortunately, I think my partnership would never resort to that, which I hope will carry over to my daughter and any future littles.
The authors expound on their theory that there are five different ways that people express and experience love: physical touch, words of affirmation, quality time, gifts and acts of service.
For example, if a parent expresses love by acts of service, but the child experiences love through physical touch, then they may feel unloved even while the parent bends over backward for them.
Similarly, if they experience love through words of affirmation, but a parent disciplines by yelling, the child may not get the message "You made a bad choice" but may instead hear "I don't love you."The book is mildly, though overtly, Christian.
"The wonderful thing about human relationships is that they are not static.
The potential for making them better is always present."This book was wonderful!
I thought it was the most helpful "parenting" book I've read yet.
While a few of the examples were really extreme, most of them were great.
It was so informative and eye-opening to me to read about the 5 love languages with my children in mind.
It was also a great refresher for me since I read the original 5 Love Languages book back in college.
I'd recommend this book to all parents with children of any age, and grandparents too!

They also discuss some of the unique challenges of responding to a child’s love language for single-parent families and how modelling love languages in marriage helps your children.This is a quick read with a lot of insight.
And of course Chapman and Campbell also encourage parents to nurture your children to express each of the love languages to others.But the most important chapters for me would be the chapters on discipline, learning and managing anger.
Certainly there is a lot I still need to discover about my children but like the original Love Languages book, this gives me some words to talk about it.I recommend this book to parents.
يليه " الغضب والحب " في بداية الفصل يذكر المؤلفان أن الغضب والحب مترابطان بدرجة أكثر بكثير مما نتوقع ، بعد ذلك يذكران ما هو النوع المناسب من الغضب ، وبعض التفسيرات للسلوكيات العدوانية التي تصدر من الأطفال وأسبابها وكيف نتعامل معها ، والفرق بين السلوك السلبي العدواني غير الضار والسلوك غير الطبيعي والضار ، وكيف نتحكم في غضب الأطفال .ثمّ يتناول في الفصل الحادي عشر وهو بعنوان " الحديث بلغات الحب في العائلات ذات الوالد الوحيد " كيف يستطيع الوالد الوحيد سواء كان مُطلق أو أرمل أن يقوم بتربية أطفاله بإستخدام لغات الحب في حين يحتاج هو للحب وبعض النصائح لهؤلاء الآباء / الأمهات .
While understanding the different love languages a person can have: Acts of Service, Words of Affirmation, Receiving Gifts, Quality Time, and Physical Touch, can move you worlds closer to getting along with someone, it doesn't necessarily always bridge the gap of personality comprehension.
While making relationships better is never an easy undertaking, once you understand a love language, you would think it might simplify things.
Just because my husband knows my love language is Acts of Service, doesn't necessarily mean he's any more willing to do the dishes or clean up after himself.
Now there's a book I can get behind, getting you husband and children to clean up after themselves.
I finished it, because there were a few helpful nuggets I could take away, but in general, I have some serious objections.First, maybe I live under a rock, but it's not immediately apparent from the front cover, back blurb, or early chapters that this book has religious undertones.
The "scenarios" presented are patently ridiculous: children are instantly repentant and apparently change their ways when presented with loving correction.Third, the book fails to mention that there might be something actually wrong with your child.
For example: "The mishandling of anger is related to every present and future problem your child may have-- from poor grades to damaged relationships to possible suicide...

children is a gift from god.. this book will teach you how to know your children needs. every child or every person has a different way of feeling love. get to know your child love language. we have to use all the languages with our children but focus on the one they feel loved through. my kareem feels it from quality time. but tooti through physical touch. to be honest this book will change your behavior. we need to discipline our children but with LOVE.LOVE your children and stop abusing themstop ABUSING them.
I wish I had read this book a lot sooner in my parenting journey. Perhaps it's because I am lacking in so many ways as a mom, but I had so many light bulbs going off while reading this gem. Like always, I will take some advice and leave some advice, but what I will "leave" will be little! I'm already noticing a big difference in my relationship with Carson as I've made a strong effort to use all the love languages with him (I was leaving some out entirely). I loved it.
I really liked this book. The theory is that there are 5 love languages and by figuring out your child's primary love language, you can figure out how they best perceive and feel love. Without even reading the descriptions, I could easily figure out my oldest son's primary love language. The books says if your child is under 5, you probably won't be able to tell their primary language yet so I am interested in trying to pick up the clues as the twins get older.
I feel this book is an absolutely must if you have children or plan to have children. This book really shows how to translate your love in the way that children will understand. Not all children feel love the way you do or they same way as another child. Parents tend to think that if they treat their children the same, they will respond the same. This is not always the case. I am so happy to have read this book. I can already see positive changes in our relationship.
