https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7005865-the-atlantis-complex
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: Killing time before the final book, it's an excuse to bring the team all together and facilitate comedy and camaraderie.
After a hideously long stretch without a new Artemis book, Atlantis Complex decides to throw at us....Psychological disorders!Giant squids!Interspecies love!
I mean, come on, Time Paradox (which at the moment holds my vote for best book in the series) was at least 200 pages longer.
Colfer certainly left loose ends, which will be tied up in the 8th book, which will be the last.
Please, Colfer, make the next book nice and long, will you?
(Speaking of OCD...hahaha...)PPS - I still want to see Holly end up with Artemis, at least for a book or so.
*Holds up huge GO ARTEMIS sign* Colfer, you know this would be awesome.
I was reading the whole previous 6 books...to get this type of character arc!
. It has changed the boy, who doesn't think of anything except for making fortune by criminal plans, into a type of caring boy.
A disease!!Or finally Artemis admits that he loves Caption Holly, of course.
And I would really appreciate this invention.With the heavy heart, I am saying this: I am not in the state of reading its next and final book.
Not After what this book has done to Artemis' character.
My mind is insisting me to read the final book but my heart isn't willing to do so.
Even then, Artemis Fowl remained a series that I was totally engrossed in.
I have noticed those traces of freshness disappearing in the 6th book of the series and here it becomes a cliche ridden and extremely predictable story line.When asked about whether his Batman series would continue beyond a third film, Christopher Nolan had replied that there is only so much that you can stretch a character and its environs ( those were not the exact words but you get the picture don't you ?
). This applies for some series books for from being extremely entertaining to dreary dullness is the matter of just a few pages.
Alas, it was Artemis Fowl being made a cliche !
I have enjoyed the Artemis Fowl series but this is a disappointing addition to the series.
Artemis, ridden by guilt, has devised a system to combat global warming but in fact is in great danger from the Atlantis Complex - a multiple personality and OCD syndrome that is endangering his sanity when his fairy friends need his deviousness most.The book itself acknowledges that it doesn't follow the usual pattern so don't expect any resolution.
Consequently, it's surprisingly long considering this.
Ultimately, this is a very funny read - Orion is a highly entertaining character and Foaly is his usual sarcastic self.
I think it was going to be a tough thing for Colfer to portray mental illness in a good way with the cast of characters that he's working with, and I was right to a point.
The characters treated the illness as a joke when Artemis was clearly suffering which didn't sit too well with me.
And another thing that was weird was that Colfer gets a Greek myth about Artemis and Orion way wrong or used a version I could not find nor have ever heard of.
I think Colfer does some interesting things with poking fun of tropes which I thoroughly enjoyed.
I can not WAIT to read this!!!
I love this series so much!
I thought it was a great book, but it just seemed like something was missing.
Don't get me wrong, I thought Artemis's disorder was interesting and Orion cracked me up, but I thought it was still missing some small element that kept it from being amazing like The Time Paradox.
Regardless, I still really enjoyed reading it.
Now I have another Artemis Fowl book to look forward to!
it seems artemis has lost his mind and a giant squid is involved
I thought they would finally bring back the original cunning Artemis Fowl that made me fall in love with the series.
But now that I've read this book my hopes of having a good Artemis Fowl book again are gone.
No one (myself) wanted to know what happened to her.
Oh and Orion made me want to close the book and put in the pile of "I will never finish, waste of my money" books.
Those two were perhaps the two most annoying characters in this book (besides Orion).
Much of the humor that the series is known for was absent as Colfer focused on giving proper gravitas to the torment of mental disease.
Focusing on secondary characters and their quest to save the day without Artemis' help on the surface sounds like a recipe for avoiding stagnation in a fairly formulaic series for children, but in practice I felt a very large void because of Artemis' absence.The consequences have been graver and the resolutions have been messier and less conclusive as the series has progressed (Artemis himself even remarks upon this very thing in a meta acknowledgement by Colfer that his goal is to age the series).
I was horribly disappointed with this book.
Artemis Fowl has been one of my favorite series since middle school and I have always loved Colfer's voice and humor.
Character development was also really weak, which was another huge disappointment.
Usually, Colfer's characters are well-defined and capture the readers attention; again, the Atlantis Complex didn't have this.
I'm hoping he writes another, because this would be a horrible way to end an otherwise wonderful series, though I am a little afraid that another novel will recieve the same lack of artistry and effort that this one did.
Fun the second time around, too. But you need to be familiar with the characters, and What Has Gone BeFoul Playfore, as Mr. Colfer does not give you much time to think!SRC 2018 SUM Task 30.?, where I needed two homonyms in the title, subtitle or series. Using Artemis Fowl series and Janet Evanovich's short little Foul Play.
That was a fun ride  OH GOD, NOW I AM SO SCARED TO END THIS SERIES....ONE MORE BOOK GEEEEEEZZZ >.<
And a very weak link it is.The story starts out full of action - but none of it feels like the edge of the seat action found in previous books.
That was how unexciting it was - it felt like I was re-reading an old book for the thousandth time, with no interest in it at all.There's also a lot of wasted potential in the story.
Sometimes it even felt TOO back-and-forth, like the characters are rehearsed comedians.I'd sum the book out as 'meh', and you should read this if you're an AF fan, or just want to know it all for the upcoming finale.
His books always kept me thinking, and his endings always got me to re-read his books again and again to try to catch every significant detail I might have missed hinting to the intricate twists and turns he weaves.
Artemis’s trademark almost annoyingly-cocky-yet-endearing air (unfortunately replaced by a almost obnoxious, practically useless kid) and the story’s typical out-of-the-ashes victory only obtained by sheer wit and very detailed planning taking place throughout the entire story right within the text but floating completely unnoticed right through our minds was desperately missed.
It's about time Colfer came out with another Fowl book!Although the book was great I have to express my utter disappointment with the new jacket design.
Artemis's complex makes for a great new character addition.
The villian is less exciting than villians of the previous books, but the whole package is quite worthwhile.In the next (and purportedly last) Artemis Fowl novel, there had better be no more ArtemisxHolly shipteasing, because we've been putting up with it for much too long.
DTR, Colfer.Other than the unfortunate jacket mishap, a great book.
Part of the fun of this series is that Artemis always has a scheme.
Usually, a scam within a scheme.
This time around...no scheme, no scam.
Instead of the snarky boy genius with a tendency to lean toward criminal activity, we have a nice kid who feels guilty for all the wrong he has done in his life.
Wrong!
However, it still doesn't change the fact that I read this entire book waiting for the real Artemis to pop up and say, "Gotcha!
Sadly, that never happened.If this is the direction the series is taking, then I hope Colfer wraps it up after the next book.
Bleehhhhhh!!! This did not feel like an Artemis Fowl novel at all. It felt like some environmentalism/global-warming-awareness book with Artemis Fowl's name slapped on so that more people would purchase and read.I don't have any problem with environmental/ecosystem friendliness, but this book just should not have happened. Pretty much every single character's personality was destroyed, and the plot was just awful. I'm looking for an excuse to burn it and pretend it never existed.
(No, io e la mia donna non abbiamo lo stesso senso dell'umorismo.)Insisto su quanto ho già detto in passato: Colfer è un autore per ragazzi semplicemente straordinario.
Al di là della sua indiscussa abilità nell'intreccio narrativo e nella caratterizzazione dei personaggi (a questo giro, veramente meraviglioso il "cattivo", Turnball: il suo finale, nello specifico la sua battuta finale, mi ha veramente commossa), c'è in lui un'onestà, una franchezza, perfino, direi, una certa brutalità nel modo di affrontare i fatti della vita e la complessità delle reazioni ed emozioni umane, che ne fanno un autore per adolescenti fuori dagli schemi.
بعد از پنج شیش سال، دوباره خوندن از شخصیت های مورد علاقه ام، خیلی لذت بخش بود، اما آنقدری که انتظار داشتم، داستانش فوق العاده نبود.. :(
Artemis' opposite personality is amazingly funny, and the fact that both must share their only body is going to become a real challenge for their friends.I can't wait to see the Films they are making.
to read finaleWhich book format?
This might be the first book I've read since the makeover, which I guess has something to do with the Disney logo on the spine and back flap?I have to admit, I sometimes wish there was more romance.
Sometimes it feels like I'm just reading to follow the tension building between him and Holly.In that way, I'm almost glad nothing has ever come of it.
There's nothing I love more than a reformed brilliant criminal mastermind (this is my favorite trope actually) and watching Artemis try to become good and swallowed with guilt and not disappoint his mother anymore was heartbreaking.
If it's true that the next book is going to be the last, I would really really like that to be resolved.
I wish they'd at least talked about that, because it wasn't as if Orion was an entirely different person.But yes, action-wise, it was a bit lacking.
As much as I think Opal gets way too many comebacks, she always delivers the best performance and the books with her in it are my favorites.
I'm a die hard Artemis fan, and after reading (and owning) the last six books, I eagerly awaited the Atlantis Complex and went off specifically to purchase it on its release date in India.The first chapter showed that the book would go off on a good note, but the rest of the chapters, were simply fillers to the book's 323 or 357 pages (depending on the publisher).
The storyline was not solid, as it was in the all the previous books and the end did not have a twist.
It simply ended on a drab note with Artemis finding himself with Foaly and Holly at his bedside.
This is the first time I read an Artemis Fowl book in its original language, English, and I was astonished by the wealth of its language.
Having read all the previous installments in Greek translations, I had never thought I would be able to learn so many new words from it.
I really liked Orion, Artemis's alter ego and I would've liked to see him a little bit more in this story.
Overall, I found this book highly enjoyable, but I would have preferred it to be a little longer.
While I thought it was clever to throw the Atlantis Complex (a serious form of guilty conscience degrading into OCD, paranoia, and eventual split personality, yikes!) at Artemis, to have his own mind turn against him – which is one of my worst nightmares, to be honest – and to have him aware that it is happening but is utterly unable to do anything about it, I also don’t think it was quite given the range it needed.
– Chapter 2 page 12-13/42 – I’ll agree with the fairy healings, but Butler never did any time travel – that was only Holly and Artemis.
The things that came out of the probe.” – Chapter 3 page 9/36 – It’s not like Foaly to use such short sentences with poor grammar, even in stressful/dangerous situations.
Un libro que deja bastante que desear, que no está a la altura de los anteriores y al que le falta gancho, giros y más desarrollo, tanto del worldbuilding como de los personajes. Aún así, presenta temas interesantes y hay unas buenas dosis de humor. No es que haya sido un mal libro, pero podría haber sido mucho mejor.Reseña completa: http://paseandoentrepaginas.blogspot....
Technically, I only read the first chapter of this book.
However, there were several things that contributed to my dislike of this last one, therefore preventing me from reading any further.First, Colfer took his big "break", which meant I had two years to move on to other books.
This is still a children's book, so what's with the big "save the glaciers" message?
I am hugely disappointed in Eoin Colfer and the way he has handled this series recently.
Also, I've just discovered that there will be one more book to finish the series.
While I cannot say that this is a horrible book, I can hardly say that this book is written by the Eoin Colfer who gave us the earlier Artemis Fowl books.
Keeping in mind that most of the earlier books in this series were simply genius, this is a very great letdown.The characters we have come to love are all present, though in a lackluster performance.
: Another reason that this book was so unsatisfying was because it deviated much from the earlier ones in all aspects from character development to the story.
After the atrocity of the last book, I didn't think I would ever be tempted to pick up another Artemis Fowl book.
Artemis Fowl has become nice.
Instead I got Eoin Colfer writing from the depths of the crack den he seems to inhabit these days.
Colfer may be on crack, but at least his humour's improving.Example!"Can we please focus?" Holly said.
"We are supposed to be professionals.""Not me," said Orion cheerily.
And may I say, young fairy lady, they're running wild in your direction."and:Foaly scraped the snow with a hoof.
"Look, I scraped an F for Foaly.""That is excellent work," said Orion.
That takes hoof control.""I know," said Foaly.
