https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/620729.Immortal_Poems_of_the_English_Language
My copy of Immortal Poems of the English Language must be handled gingerly to prevent it from completely falling apart.
I remember them both living in my book bag during my college years.
Many of its poems were memorized during those days and some of them I can still recite today.Nowadays I have a fairly large collection of poetry books and most, if not all, of the poems in Immortal Poems of the English Language are surely available on the internet, but I would not part with this book for all the poems on the web.
Many of my favorite poems are in here, the ones I memorized in childhood to recite before dinner, the ones that comforted me during bad times in childhood, the ones Mama read when Father died.
Near them on the sand,Half sunk, a shatter'd visage lies, whose frownAnd wrinkled lip and sneer of cold commandTell that its sculptor well those passions readWhich yet survive, stamp'd on these lifeless things,The hand that mock'd them and the heart that fed.And on the pedestal these words appear:"My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!"Nothing beside remains: round the decayOf that colossal wreck, boundless and bare,The lone and level sands stretch far away.One of my all time favorites, Ozymandias was another name of Ramesses the Great, Pharaoh of the nineteenth dynasty of ancient Egypt.
I carried this book around the world in my backpack when I went to Japan as an exchange student in high school, and again when I travelled around the world, in college. It's a great book to have when traveling, with high literature-per-ounce value, and can be re-read many times. The collection favors older poems -- there's not much even from the earlier 20th century, but it's good for what it does.
şiir gibi insanlar.
If you like poetry, this is a brilliant collection.
John Keats was well represented in this.
It is a very inclusive and comprehensive anthology.
But the volume is not too intimidating and I found myself easily lingering on a few poems for days, and then sifting through others within minutes, which is the beauty of an anthology -- not too daunting...
when you're reading poetry, this makes for a great variety of writing styles and I never got bored.
My only complaint is that Elizabeth Barret Browning is short-changed with a little less than 2 pages...
But Yeats, Shakespeare, Byron, & Alexander Pope, among others, are well-represented.
I thought the collection was very well done. So many epic poems, and with no notes in it you could take it in and try it figure it out yourself.
I am enjoying this book as something to browse through. It's a nice collection of poems by different writers. Some of the poems are long and complex, but a few are short and fun, such as:Epigram (Samuel Taylor Coleridge, 1772-1839)Sir, I admit your general rule,That every poet is a fool,But you yourself may serve to show it,That every fool is not a poet.Or:The Golf Links (Sarah N Cleghorn, 1876-1959)The golf links lie so near the millThat almost every dayThe laboring children can look outAnd see the men at play.Anyway, sometimes it's nice to read poetry for a change.
The grizzly bear is huge and wild;He has devoured the infant child.The infant child is not aware,It has been eaten by the bear.- A.E. Housman Page 487Love it.
Some poets overrepresented, others underrepresented. A good collection, though.
I think I love my copy of A Book of Women Poets best, for it's international and historical focus--it opens with Enheduanna, a Sumerian Priestess who may be the earliest known name in written literature.
Cleghorn short enough to be quoted in its entirety: The golf links lie so near the millThat almost every dayThe laboring children can look outAnd see the men at playFrom inspiring to disturbing this included wonderful, compact, intense works of verse to give you a taste of what poetry in our language can offer.
I'm not a huge poetry buff, and reading this book straight through probably wasn't the best idea.
I also was a little put off that the anthologist's own works, good though they are, were included as "Immortal Poems." That might've been done in an edition after he passed away, though, and it really didn't affect my enjoyment of the book.
So, here's the meat of it: I've got kind of strange tastes when it comes to poetry, but the fact that Immortal Poems is both portable and comprehensive will endear this book to true lovers of the classics.
I enjoy dabbling in poetry so this anthology of the "immortal poems" seemed appropriate for dabbling.
However, I felt numerous poets were shortchanged in the book while others were far too represented (like poets I have never even heard of and it seems that was for good reason!).
Elizabeth Barrett Browning only had ONE poem in the entire book, ONE.
There were quite a number of poems that I would never consider important to English language poetry nonetheless any good.
There were also far too many religious themed poems-granted there would be many throughout the years but far too many represented in one anthology.
Most of the books are classics, plays, books of poetry, argumentation, debate, and other forensics-shaped things.
I haven't read a lot of poetry and clearly wanted to read a whole bunch.It's safe to say I hadn't read most of the poetry in this book.
And a lot is lost on me.
But there were some bits that I really did like (though I felt a bit odd liking Walt Whitman's poetry), and I'm overall glad I did read it.
I was surprised at what was missing from the book (granted, it was printed in 1952), and it clearly represented some poets over others.
Overall, fair variety.
My second poetry subway book since moving to NYC. Many of the old chestnuts are here, but some surprises. I was glad to revisit some familiar poems, but I was also glad to read some folks I had given short shrift to earlier. It helps getting older--at least in some respects. Pope. Tennyson. I believe it is good for me to read and re-read. I'm going to look for another anthology. And there was some bad stuff in here! But that's OK since work often distracts my mind during my commute and I cannot be the best reader.
It' s been my companion since I got it as a present from a very precious friend, when I was 18 years old. Since it's always with me , I keep coming back to it and reading reading, Keats and Milton as my favourite poets. But then again Thomas Hardy is also one of my favourite, mostly I can' t decide they are all part of my life reading.
This has been a long read. I have had this book for 2 years and Im still not through it. It a no joke hard corp collection of poems. For now I have a love hate relationship with it. Some of the poems are amazing and others exhist when I think they should have long ago went the way of all things. Unfortunately that probably means Im to stupid to understand them. So I cant just love this book.
If you like modern, experimental poetry, this book is not for you. These are the poems that my grandmother used to read to me when I was little, and I love the selection-- it has all of my classic favorites, and it's great to read a few before bed. I highly recommend it! My absolute favorites are The Day is Done and The Children's Hour, both by Longfellow.
I feel like many of the poems weren't my favorite but I liked many of them as well. This book certainly helped me with my English assignment. Seeing as it was compiled in 1952 (which I didn't realize until later) I shouldn't have expected more modern poetry. Nevertheless I was disappointed at it's lack of modern poetry.
This is my second copy of this book! I have literally worn out the pages on the other to the extent that they are just sheets of paper floating. In all sincerity a fantastic gathering of poetry, one of the finest I've read.
Great book which I'm glad I own. I have loved it for a few years now and will go on to use it till I need to buy a new less worn copy. Tis a great introduction to so many poets. Very handy to take about with you to dip into when you please.
I have owned this book for years and years, and I love it as much today as I did when I purchased it! Full of the "famous" poems we all grew up with, this book also surprises the reader with some previously un-heard of poems. A wonderful collection!
Still sporting the same cover for at least the last 40 years (how comforting, how rare) and published by Pocket Books, this compact book is still the best "Pocket Anthology" of English Poetry in print.A Foundational book for any home library and the perfect size for traveling.
The first collection of poetry I read back in 9th grade. A lot of great memories reading Shakespeare, Milton, Keats, Wordsworth and Whitman for the first time- among the many poets who are here. Good selection to read in order to get into poetry.
I bought this for an undergrad class and have hung on to it since. Great anthology, especially for Brit lit fans like myself, and I still pick it up now and then and flip through the beautiful poems.
I skipped a whole bunch of poems in this anthology and nearly as many as I should have. As with most anthologies of poetry that I've read, for every entertaining or inspiring poem that was included here, there were a dozen boring and impenetrable ones.
Honestly, I just read through these poems once, so I can't make a good assessment at this time. Most of them require in-depth and multiple readings. With so many allusions, I'll have to dig deeper (I'm sure it will be worth it).
Some poems are immortal because they live in people's hearts, others because they just won't die.
Will be a treasure to you.
Honestly a great book. I enjoyed reading all the different authors and how so many authors had similar views on life even in different time periods.
I will thumb through this anthology for the rest of my life. This book was our "hymnal" of our Dead Poets Society charter in high school.
