https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11376.Main_Street
On page 25 I thought – this guy is brilliant.On page 50 I thought – this guy is exhaustively brilliant.On page 100 I thought – I’m exhausted.On page 150 I thought – I’ll never get out of this novel alive.On page 200 I thought – so who knew there could be so much DETAIL about every last possible aspect of one teensy Minnesotan town lodged inside the Tardis-like head of Sinclair Lewis?On page 213 my eye fell upon this :It’s the worst defeat of all.
"A bomb to blow up smugness" is what one woman hopefully calls her child in Sinclair Lewis's broadside attack on mainstream America, and that's surely what this book is.I didn't know a book can be quiet and bombastic at the same time, but Lewis has written it.
I mean, not that I'd know, but that's what I hear from old people.Which, I mean, the danger of an unexceptional life is that it makes boring reading, and one criticism of Main Street has been that it's plotless.
This was Lewis first novel, published in 1920, and it was a huge success, both critically and commercially.
Lewis felt that Main Street should have won the Pulitzer Prize in 1921 but was edged out by Edith Wharton's, The Age of Innocence.
It so incensed Lewis that when he did win it in 1925 for Arrowsmith, he refused to accept the award.Main Street was the first major novel that featured small town America, and the public loved it.
While his contemporaries, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, and Wharton were writing about New York and Paris and the upper crust aristocracy, Lewis focused on the heartland.
Classics Cleanup Challenge #11Audio #159I didn’t like all of the arguing. For some reason it really upset me.
Figuring out who you are and how you are going to live your life and how you are going to meld dreams with reality.
And it’s about appreciating culture and art and the value of beauty.
I guess I could keep adding more to the list!For me, what I liked best about the book is that opposing views are fairly portrayed.
How do you compromise so both can live a satisfying life?
More than just being satisfied, you have to like it!This is a great book for group reads.
I also love life in a big city.
Steinbeck recollected how negatively Sauk Centre had reacted to Lewis and to "Main Street" when it was published in 1920 and commented "Now he's good for the town.
He's a good writer now." The way Sauk Centre embraced Sinclair Lewis is similar to the way in which the Salinas Valley embraced Steinbeck, after its initial hugely negative reaction to the publication of The Grapes of Wrath.A reader's response to this novel and in particular to its main character will depend to a large extent on their experience of and feelings towards life in a small town.
Let the values voters of small-town America's Main Street keep on shooting themselves in the foot and dragging the rest of us down with them by electing right-wing corporate-puppet elites who don't give a tinker's damn about them or anybody else.
Carol Kennicott, the city girl with the dreams and ideals of youth, the desire to share and to energize, the beautiful naivete of a progressive who wants to leave the world a better place than she found it, is Main Street's protagonist, a lovely soul after my own heart; a woman who wants to put the soul into a soulless place that wants none of it.
I read this many, many years ago and remember that I didn't like it at all. Boring.
I can't properly rate this book, because I did not enjoy it (or finish it yet), but I appreciate the satire and how its "commentary" on small minded people still holds true today.
To me, Lewis didn't try to build deep, interesting characters, he built representations about everything that reeks in society.
A definite read for "American Literature 101" in your first year of college, but not for a working mom who wants to curl up with a good book after the kids are in bed.
I guess I got sucked in to what Lewis warned us about.
I had just moved to a small town in Minnesota - with the same aspirations as this classic charater of many years before me, yet my thoughts and run ins were very much the same 50 years later. It was a reminder that one fits or one doesn't fit but to spend your life trying to change the engrained to your likely only means you will spend your life in turmoil, in hopes others after you, long after you will find the place more to your liking. Shortly afterwards - I moved.
Set in the second decade of the 20th century, this is a reflection on small town life and an exploration of the restrictions women face.
A young, college educated woman who has lived and worked in St. Paul, marries a small town doctor and moves to a provincial town of 3,000 people.
But with her experience of city life, a college education and a libral upbringing, she sets out to reform and modernize this community.
Lewis captures these people adeptly, from the gossipy card circle to the sanctimonious elderly neighbor, from the spinster school teacher to the critical eye of the handiman who lives on the edge of the town.
This book went on too long for me -- I ended up losing interest in and patience with Carol. I felt like I should sympathize with her but didn't in fact do so.Lloyd James was very good with the narration which did help me persevere through.
পরথমত নামটা ভালো হইছে বইটার। একটা মফসবল ধাঁচের শহরের কলানতির পরথম নিদরশন ত তার ঐ রাসতাটাই - বাংলায় রাসতাটারে কী বলে? বাজার রোড?দবিতীয়ত, বইটা ভালো লাগে নাই। লুইসের রসবোধ যে পরখর সেটা জায়গায় জায়গায় বের হয়ে আসলেও তিনি মোটের উপর সেটা ঢাকতেই সচেষট, কারণ তিনি সিরিয়াস বই লিখছেন। আবার, তিনি সিরিয়াস বলতে সিরিয়াস বইই লিখছেন, যেটা কথা বলবে তাঁর সমকালীন বিষয়াপততি নিয়ে, ফলে খুব বেশি কেতাকানুনের জায়গাও সেখানে নাই। যে কারণে বইটা সময়ের দলিল হয়ে উঠছে, কিনতু উপনযাস হিসেবে খুব ভালো কিছু হয়ে দাঁড়ায় নাই। সুযোগ ছিলো

Kept feeling like a disappoving old lady reading this book: "This young man writes very well, but I don't like his tone." Smug. Unutterably smug, and he doesn't seem to like or care about any of his characters, which makes the whole exercise rather cold. I suppose, ninety years later, the "small towns are narrow-minded and hypocritical" theme has been done to death, and Lewis deserves credit for pioneering the genre, but on the whole I didn't like it.
I spent a large part of my adolescence planning my escape from my own Gopher Prairie; Europe and the East Coast were my Promised Lands like they were Carol’s, and I felt that somehow I had been born in the Midwest by some cruel accident of fate.
And she does come around at the end, but not in a very satisfying way; I felt that her return at the end of the book was more an act of settling than of finding peace with the place.
The Midwest now has the appeal of geographic isolation without the horror of isolation from thought and influence from the outside world.
actually kinda won me over at the end, once the main character actually, y'know, DID SOMETHING. but the first 200 or so pages of "small-town satire," which is just a buncha dad-bern idjits talkin' like this is some of the most annoying shit i've ever read in my life. beyond comprehension that this guy won a nobel prize. though i guess english wasn't the jury's first language.
So they don't like going sledding in winter - so what?The book is full of interesting ideas and juxtapositions, we see things through the eyes of Carol and initially we agree with her, and then slowly and subtly we are led to consider the rest of the town and in doing so it becomes obvious that Carol is rather egotistical in her desire for change that suits herself.Occasional she tries to rally support for her ideas, but is always frustrated when the people she turns to have ideas of their own.
Main Street ruffled more than a few feathers in small town America when it was first published in 1920, and I expect it has the same effect on some readers today, nearly a century later.
Sinclair Lewis wrote this savage satire as an indictment of small town life in the early 20th century – a time when prairie life was patriotically idealised as wholesome and honorable.
He labelled the power of small town life to inculcate its citizenry with enervating shallow values as ‘The Village Virus’, and the focus of the story is whether the outsider Carol will succumb to Main Street, or not.
Read this in high school, well it was a summer reading book and I remember hating it. I actually enjoyed a lot of my summer reading list including Watership Down, The Once and Future King, The Jungle, and others, but this one killed it for me. Looking back, however, I'm pretty sure I missed something when I first read it, some joke that everyone got but me. I think I may have to revisit this one day and see how my more literate and well-read (and snobbish) self rates it.
Caustic satire of small-town life. Although some of the concepts in the book are invariably dated, the concept and the characters are still only too familiar, and the follies of small-town living are laid bare.
(There is for example, a wonderful section in which Carol attends a meeting of the ladies of the town, in which she expects them to start a course on English literature, only to discover that by the end of the evening they expect to know all that is worth knowing and proper to know about the subject, so that they can move on to a new topic the next week.) Part of her problem is that she wants simultaneously to fit in and be accepted and to radically change things, but the way in which one new enthusiasm after another takes her is the main reason taht she doesn't get anywhere.The characterisation is good, and it is mostly intended to paint a fairly bleak picture of Gopher Prairie.
The protagonist, Carrie, struggles against falling into the rut of quiet, midwestern life while progressivism rages on in the bustling cities she once called home.
Overall, I could see how some people wouldn't enjoy this novel- it can be a little tedious at parts, and just hair-pullingly frustrating at others- but if you've ever wondered what your role in society is and how you as an individual can work to change the world bit-by-bit, look into this book.
I used to travel occasionally across the state and visited some small towns where I thought, “This looks pretty nice… maybe not much going on…but, if you had not been previously spoiled by the trappings of “city” life (i.e. did not know better) it might be an enjoyable place to live.” Well…this book annihilated that little theory.
But, more disconcerting is the realization that the freedom that Carol Kenniccott seeks exists only in theory, Main Street exists all over the place, and it’s not that hot for the natives either.What really blew me away was how relevant this book remains.
A satire isn't necessarily funny or lighthearted. Critical--yes. Pessimistic--yes. Main Street is just that book. The characters are ridiculed by the author and don't seem to improve their vices, or change their points of view from beginning to end. But sometimes who doesn't enjoy some sarcasm? I did.
Carol Kennicott is a fish out of water in small-town America.
Her arc is discovering that, as the big-city suffragette tells her, she should challenge one conformist law at a time.
Despite finding Sinclair Lewis to be a condescending snob, I believe him to be one extraordinary writer.
The effete snobbery is the belief that small-town America is filled with petty, unimaginative, conformist boobs, who are in dire need of the sophistication of the metropolis and the old world.
That said, Lewis creates a one hell of a story and, if the product of liberal prejudice, it is extraordinarily well told, with some astonishing imagery and quite compelling character descriptions.
Maybe it's because I grew up in such a town though, instead of being a transplant like the book's protagonist Carol, that I also feel a certain grudging respect and even love for these places.
Lewis' knives are also out for Carol, not only the fictional town of Gopher Prairie, Minnesota.
I don't especially have a problem with any of this; many great books have unlikable main characters and settings.
Lewis' prose is workmanlike and adequate, and this book can certainly help us understand some of the incredible isolation small town denizens must have felt in the first half of the 20th century.
Ironicly, I felt relieved of its delayed delivery cause I am not quite poised to challenge the great odds that reading the book would exhaust and inflict me a lot.
I am sure it would.I frequently let my instinct be my guide when choosing a book.
There must be occasions when you caught first sight of a book you have an inextricable feeling that it is the one you need to know.You sensed you want to understand it better and felt the connection was preordained somehow.
Well, that is it.THE instinct for books derives from my own perception for the world around and personal experience.
On the one hand, it’s a nicely biting critique of a certain “small town” mindsets of closed-mindedness, stagnation, and self-righteousness.
In the end, however, this is still, foremost, a critique of the small town, not the heroine who would reform it.
As such, I can’t help but disagree with almost all of its social premise, as presented through a heroine who isn’t so much obnoxious in her own equally self-righteous crusade (which she, arguably, grows out of/into by the story’s end), but more so in her utter determination to be miserable via a refusal to grow into contentment and acceptance.
Sometimes I don't want to be a character's best friend, and actually enjoy disliking them intensely. Carol comes to a bucolic little town and wants to turn it into a cultured little haven for those wanting to escape city life. In other words, they want to leave the city, but bring it along with them. As a native of a small town where a bunch of transplants have attempted (and succeeded) to turn it into a twee little "getaway", I admit to having more than a tad of satisfaction at Carol's collapse and downfall.
come out and play with you men in offices and clubs and politics you’ve cleverly kept for yourselves!”This was written in 1920.“I think it’s a greatness of life - a refusal to be content with even the healthiest mud.”This is a work of early feminist literature, written by a man, telling the story of an intelligent housewife’s bored discontent in her midwestern small town and the unfairness of provincial attitudes, forty years before Betty Friedan wrote The Feminine Mystique.
It’s full of golly-gee-whiz-aw-shucks language, written in a very natural, of-the-time way, when people actually said things like “swell” and referred to cars as “motors”.
