https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/935308.Faceless_Killers
And now I'm really hooked.Written in 1990, this book introduced Wallander as a police detective in a backwater town in Sweden.
A wave of anti-immigrant violence and hysteria is on the verge of being unleashed.Wallander is having enough trouble dealing with his messy personal life.
The strain of balancing his increasingly unmanageable personal life and his police work are starting to take a serious toll on him.
In addition, he's constantly worried about the new wave of crime and violence he's noticed rising in Sweden.Wallander is a great sort of every-man detective.
Dark, brooding and earthy – like a good Swedish crime mystery should be.Writer Henning Mankell first published Faceless Killers in 1991 and an English edition, translated by Steven T.
Besides being a good book, this is notable as Mankell’s introduction of his famous detective Kurt Wallander.Set in the small city of Ystad, in the southern most tip of Sweden, and farther removed from larger cities like Malmo or Stockholm, Mankell has given this mystery a sort of small town charm, distinguished from the tense and energetic crime novels in urban settings.
Henning Mankell might be the most famous Scandinavian writer of crime novels in the US.
I'm not sure he's been translated but he's brillant when it comes to the twisted mind of killers and rapists.Actually, I don't like being hard on writer colleagues, but this book is simply not very good.
The prose is flat, only two of the characters come alive for me, and I was a tiny bit bored as well.
I made the mistake of teaching this novel at Portland State University and my students absolutely hated it.
I like the portrait of the main character and the small meditations on immigrants and racism in Sweden.
Sjajan švedski autor, najpre ga je objavljivala Narodna knjiga a sada Čarobna knjiga... Da ne govorimo o Kenetu Brani koji je presonalizovao britansku verziju serijala o inspektoru Valanderu... :) Za ljubitelje dobrih krimića... I da malo upoznate i Švedsku... :)
An elderly couple is robbed and brutally murdered and it's up to police inspector Kurt Wallander to find the killer or killers.
Can Kurt act on the meager information he has available and solve the case as his private life disintegrates around him?On the heels of reading The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo and The Girl Who Played with Fire, I decided to branch out and try a couple more Swedish crime authors.
Instead of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, what I was primarily reminded of when I read this was John Lutz's Alo Nudger series starring a similarly sad character.Faceless Killers is a good police procedural story.
Ugh.Maybe this book is dreadfully translated...or maybe it's like Ikea furniture. Mostly you end up with a bunch of bits that don't make sense. It's a popular theory in Australia that Ikea furniture is some sort of revenge upon people who live in sunlight. Maybe Henning Mankell is a plot to get the people who escaped the Ikea trap.We all over here prefer more Abba and less bad furniture and miserable books please.
Henning Mankell does indeed do that for me with his Inspector Kurt Wallander.The air of suspense begins with the words:“He has forgotten something, he knows that for sure when he wakes up.
He’s also losing touch with his sister Kristina.Wallander drinks too much, is overweight through eating too many pizzas and the like, since Mona left him, loves his opera, especially Maria Callas and Traviata, is loyal to his colleagues at the Ystad police station, especially Rydberg who suffers badly from rheumatism and uses a cane; is constantly wondering how he can improve his lot and especially his relationships with his family.
This is the first entry in Henning Mankell's series featuring Swedish detective Kurt Wallander.
There is no apparent motive and there are virtually no clues, save for the last dying word of the murdered woman, which is "Foreign."At the time of the killings, some Swedes are becoming increasingly uncomfortable with the large numbers of asylum-seekers and other immigrants who are making their way into the country.
At times, though, you find yourself wondering why he soldiers along in the face of the overwhelming personal problems in his life off-duty.Mankell is a very good writer and I admire what he has done here.
The plot is not really focused on who the killer is but on the main protagonist and his life: aging, just divorced, daughter's not communicating to him, father's getting senile, getting fat, postponing his diet, drinking and driving and all of the other matters that make him human and vulnerable.
I think this is also the first book (1001 or not) that I've read with Sweden as the setting and I found it interesting because I have not been there.
Funny but that was Sweden in my mind.Why did I think that I would not like this?
Here, Inspector Kurt Wallander is like you and me.
I mean, Wallander is all too human for you not to relate to him.
Mankell links these fortuitous discoveries together over the course of the novel and the eventual solution delivers the same satisfaction as found in Roseanna by Sjöwall and WahlööFaceless Killers is not just about introducing the character of Wallander, it is just as much focused on making wider statements about the changes becoming noticeable in the Sweden of the early 1990's; significantly the increasing trend towards a country marked by less of a contrast between city and rural areas in terms of the crime experience and reflecting how the effects of open borders have increased the prevalence of organised crime.
أخذت هذه الرواية معي في رحلة قصيرة إلى برشلونة، وفرغت منها قبل هبوط رحلة العودة بدقائق، كانت بالنسبة لي مدخلاً جديداً للأدب البوليسي الاسكندنافي والذي قرأت فيه من قبل لأسماء مثل أرلندور إندرايدسون وجو نيسبو وأنوي القراءة لآخرين، وكنت قد قرأت كذلك مقالات وشاهدت محاضرات تحاول تحليل وتعليل نمو أدب الجريمة الاسكندنافي، وهل يعني هذا أن دولة الرفاه فشلت في هذه المجتمعات؟ أم أن هذه الجرائم تأتي من طبقة المهاجرين الفقيرة؟ سيلاحظ كل من قرأ هذه الرواية أن هذه الأسئلة ترد في الكتاب بشكل مباشر، فالمحقق كورت فلاندر يتساءل طيلة الوقت عن السياسة السويدية للهجرة والتي سمحت لمجموعة من رجال العصابات الأوروبية الشرقية بالتسرب للداخل السويدي، فيما يلاحق جريمة قتل بشعة ذهب ضحيتها زوجان عجوزان، تلفظ أحدهما قبل موته بكلمة (أجانب)، وهذا ما أشعل الأوضاع في المجتمع وجعل مخيمات اللاجئين تتعرض للهجوم من قبل نازيين الجدد، كما تعرض مهاجر صومالي للقتل بدم بارد، من الذي ارتكب هذه الجريمة؟ كيف يمكن لفالاندر أن يحل القضية في خضم كل ما يتعرض له من مشاكل عملية وعائلية.
it was 15 pages before the end before anyone in the police department thought to follow the most obvious trail. i mean i'm not even trying to solve the case, i'm just lying in bed sick, idly flipping 250 pages, but i'm ahead of these people? pretty sad. in the meantime there's no suspense, the characters are dull, and the scenes are boring and poorly written. nice title, though, i suppose... can't imagine reading more of these...
Although familiar with Swedish detective Kurt Wallender from the popular BBC series, this is the first of Henning Mankell's books that I have read.
No one has seen anything and although the farmer's wife is found still just alive she manages to say only the word "foreign" before dying.
Wallender struggles to get a grip on this terrible crime and the clues are teased out one by one over a period of months with still no breakthrough.
“To grow old is to live in fear. The dread of something menacing that you felt when you were a child returns when you get old.”   The first episode of a sitcom is usually a bit clunky. The joke to exposition ratio is low, and you’ve got all these new people to meet. While  Henning Mankell’s   Kurt Wallander  series is by no stretch of the imagination a “situational comedy,” I tried to give its first volume the same benefit of the doubt.When our depressed, middle-aged police detective/protagoni
“To grow old is to live in fear.
series is by no stretch of the imagination a “situational comedy,” I tried to give its first volume the same benefit of the doubt.When our depressed, middle-aged police detective/protagonist, Kurt, mentally mused over his wife’s recent departure for the fourth time during my first 30 minutes of reading, I started to get worried.
I didn’t expect things to be peppy; Scandinavian crime writing isn’t known for sunshine and rainbows.
However, I didn’t want Wallander’s malaise to turn into my own.I think Dan Schwent’s comment, “I liked it but it made me tired,” is pretty dead-on.
Do these get better? I flew through this first in the Kurt Wallander series, but the writing was squarely in the spectrum of unremarkable to outright you've-got-to-be-kidding-me. The police officers are barely differentiated (Wallander himself is the only one with any character traits to speak of, and he comes across as kind of a schmuck), and the book cries out for description and emotion. Not really psychological and only half-heartedly political, this novel strikes me as gratuitous and forgettable.
We were both annoyed by the pacing of the film and joked that it was really the story of an FBI agent driving her car, with some dialogue thrown in to liven things up.I felt a bit that way reading Faceless Killers, the first Wallander book by Henning Mankell.
What Mankell achieves with his use of time, whether he meant to or not, is an expression of what I imagine is the reality of police work: waiting, waiting and more waiting.We are so used to the slick, Hollywood version of crime stories that we expect everything to come together quickly, cleanly, logically.
I ran across a reference to Mankell from someone on GR who said that crime-writing afficionados really like him....
This is a first-rate -- a REALLY first-rate piece of genre writing.It's 4.5 stars (maybe 4.75) -- and that because I'm getting more conservative in my old age...
but its 4.5 from the five-side, not from the 4+ side...Wallander is a tough, realistic, angst-ridden policeman living and working in small-town Sweden that's getting grittier by the decade...
The Nordic weather, cold to the bones, drives its populace indoors for much of the year where cuddling up to read the latest in crime fiction is a national pastime.For many GR readers who have been introduced to Kurt Wallander it is interesting to note that ultimately the success of bringing Mankell to English speaking audiences only came after bringing in the same production company responsible for Steig Larsson's Millennium trilogy for the wildly popular BBC version starring Kenneth Branagh.
An avid fan of police procedural books and television shows, it was not shocking that I fell in love with BBC's Wallander series, starring Kenneth Branagh.
Wallander, acting as temporary head of the department while his superior is on vacation, is thoroughly unprepared for the violent magnitude of the crime, or the implications that a foreigner could have committed the crime.
One thing I thoroughly love about the show is that you can so clearly see what a sensitive, artfully inclined soul Wallander is.
This makes his approach to solving crime different, but his vocation is also clearly ebbing away at his insides.
English Translation, 2003 – Trade PaperbackPolice Inspector Kurt Wallander is called to the scene of a particularly violent attack of an elderly couple on a small farm.
Wallander becomes obsessed with solving the case before feelings against Sweden’s immigrants becomes violent.*** Although the translation into English made the dialogue a bit awkward at times, it did not take away from my enjoyment of the story.
There’s plenty of action and suspense, and even a red herring that leaves you feeling the frustration of Wallander trying to solve his case.
Um excelente policial que divide o foco entre a clássica investigação de homicídios e a construção de personagens, em particular o protagonista Kurt Wallander.
Também gostei do personagem Wallander, absolutamente humano e trivial no que toca às suas forças e fraquezas, virtudes e defeitos, momentos altos e momentos baixos.
Também achei interessante que, tendo sido originalmente publicado em 1991, o romance já aborde a questão dos refugiados e da xenofobia associada.
não sou de opinião de que o policial seja um género menor.
The old man is dead – savagely beaten to death.
His wife, also beaten, and with a noose around her neck, is close to death.
When Kurt Wallander and his crew arrive they are appalled at the violence and bloodshed.
Since Sweden is in the midst of a large influx of foreign nationals seeking asylum – and being mightily resented by native Swedes, Wallander knows that he has a big weight on his hands.
Public opinion is aroused, and attacks take place on the various holding camps located around the country that temporarily house the aliens seeking permanent status in the country.
My initial reaction to this book “Faceless Killers” was “Poor Kurt Wallander”!
Our introduction to the character of Inspector Wallander by Henning Mankell, was certainly unusual .
At the beginning of the novel, we quickly discover that Wallander’s marriage has finished, his daughter doesn’t want to have much to do with him and his father doesn’t appear to like him much either!
As a crime novel, this book worked well for me: there were some brutal, difficult crimes to solve and the character of Inspector Wallander is interesting.
I’m looking forward to reading more of Henning Mankell’s work.
“…the only thing I was afraid of was getting old and turning around and seeing that I had botched my life. But I’m happy with the life that has been”. This past summer I've read three books of Mankell; this being the latest I've read;--- and then this:http://www.theguardian.com/books/2015...Sad; let's preserve the memory of the master of the Scandinavian noir.Wallander lives on.
This is my first Mankell. I thoroughly enjoyed the tension and the investigation details and frustration. The unfamiliar (to me) setting and political environment added to the interest.Then I think it drifted away at the end. The resolution did not rise to the level of what came before. However, it was certainly good enough to add the next Wallander adventure to my list.
Really enjoyed this book.Wallender is a really great character.He is a flawed character,makes lots of mistakes.He sticks at things though and finally gets there.Really interesting to read as well as the crime storyyou get involved in Wallenders personal life and hecomes across as a normal human being who just happensto be a detective.Very good and will read the rest of the series.
Bettie's Books
I enjoyed this, if "enjoy" is the right word to describe the first outing for the middle-aged, depressed Swedish detective Wallander. It was comparatively slow-paced, and had buckets full of the Weltschmerz that perhaps marks Scandinavian noir as a thing. I'm not sure, I haven't read enough of the genre to say with any certainty, but the idealistic-turned-cynical cop was handled very well and you can see that there's plenty of inherent conflict baked in to the characters to make this an interesting series worth pursuing if you like your plots, themes and characters pretty dense, dark and real.
2014 re-read:It was good re-visiting these people again :) (Will have to watch the BBC SERIES again when I'm off, maybe marathon it).Tried to read slowly to savor it but got caught up in the story again and charged through so to speak :).
Would love Mr. Mankell to write a novel or two about him during his career and when he met Wallander.Another wonderful visit, would definitely read again :) *waves* Highly recommended, happy reading!-----Original review (2012):Excellent crime novel, very atomspheric and suspenseful...
Kurt Wallander is a flawed but good man, he never gives up in his quest for the truth.Its a quiet sort of novel...
Mas como nunca viajo com pelo menos mais dois livros de reserva, nessa mesma noite comecei a ler este, que tinha comprado num saldo espetacular na The book depository.
E não é que descubro que Henning Mankell é sueco, apesar de a história se passar bem mais a sul de Estocolmo?Mas vamos à história.
Mas a história tem muitos trâmites, e nem tudo o que parece é, mesmo que as evidências sejam muitas.
Parece-me que encontrei aqui mais um maná.PS: A imigração na Suécia é um dos temas deste livro e de muitos outros, e algo de que só me apercebi agora.
