https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/642914.Rabelais_and_His_World
Πολύ ενδιαφέρων ακόμα και αν δεν έχεις διαβάσει του RabelaisΌπως δεν έχω κάνει και εγώ αλλα θα φροντίσω να προμηθευτώ τα βιβλία του
I have read additional bits of biography and other criticism as I went along, but mostly this review is an unmediated reaction to these three books.While Bakhtin doesn’t mention Melville, MD might be a case study in the turn from the original Carnival to the negation of the elements of Carnival that are critical to the Renaissance buoyancy and positive life in Rabelais.
Dostoevsky and Rabelais may strike you as a pears and pepper combination but for literary critic and collective farm bookkeeper Mikhail Bakhtin the two went as naturally together as rice and peas or bread and cheese.In both of them he found the spirit of the medieval carnival, boy bishops and the Lord of Misrule.
It was all at least ten years too late and in the context of Stalin's Russia Bakhtin was wise enough to appreciate that his literary opinions were running counter to the times he found himself in and so he took himself off to Kazhakstan and reinvented himself as a bookkeeper.
I love to use Bakhtin's ideas in my teaching. I'm particularly partial to his early thought, but this book is great for helping student see the importance of humor.Bakhtin discusses mideval humor and how it was deeply political. In fact, he finds it deeply revolutionary.You can't oppress someone who is laughing at you.What joy!
So some fascinating connections between Don Quixote (which I just reread) and the humor of Rabelais and his world.
Sancho sees this feast as a kind of reward for all that he has been through with his Master and also because he has not yet been awarded his insular.And, of course, the entire story of Quixote is one big carnival of windmills (giants), inns (castles), flocks of rams and sheep (armies of knights), innkeepers (lords of the castle), prostitutes (noble ladies) and so forth.The author asserts that modern society likes to pretend the physically grotesque is not part of the real world.
I had a pet boa constrictor years ago, and I popped him in a bag along with this book for a cross-country drive, during which time he shat all over the book. I think that's kickass appropriate, but perhaps no more appropriate than had it been kristeva, bataille, or deleuze.
Bakhtin’s hilarious tome contains currents of resistance, subversion, and the return of grotesque humor (i.e. Rabelasian) of carnival fused with mockery of religion & the so-called ‘ruling class.’ Bakhtin’s compelling argument is that the yeasty Dark Ages were funnier than Renaissance comedy for not excluding lower body functions, noises, stenches, and broad vulgarity in that era’s art, satire, & festival.
The detached, refined work of the alleged Renaissance devolved from vital carnival rebellion and satirical mockery.
Clearly a new carnival culture is rising up in response to our abrupt Dark Age, and it’s time for mischievous freaks to plumb this pudding of a book for inspiration.
I think I really love his critique of Rabelais Gargantua and Pantagruel far more than I liked the actual fantastic novel by the French novelist.
I tried reading it a couple of years ago and didn't get all the references and milieu of the writers time.
In other words, here is a literary critic who speaks to writers.
Usually, the best literary critics, in my mind, are already writers.
Read it and feel your own bowels rejoice at the freedom of carnivalesque imagery, sentiment and enthusiasm for the lower bodily stratums ability to digest, defecate, pee and procreate.
Objasnio!
imagine being bakhtin and writing /the/ defining work of criticism about two(!) of the world's most important authors while being hounded by the soviet government. especially considering this book was written many centuries after its subject was alive and it effortlessly steps over literally everything written about rabelais until then. a truly thrilling thinker
If you're like me, you find academic pedantry and over-analysis to be the worst kind of scholarship.
Delving into a work of fiction with a meticulous and picking it apart is an insufferable effort and should be counted among the worst sins of "literary criticism", especially when the intention of the author, in this case five centuries dead, is most unclear.
In short, it represented a once-acceptable form of laughter against staid institutions like the Church and clericalism.
It's a neat idea and probably has some basis in fact, but he goes to wacky lengths to try and prove his argument, delving into semantic minutiae which quickly becomes dull.
A very interesting book about folk humour and the idea of the grotesque. It can be a bit repetitive at times with its points, but it gives a lot of great examples and historical background about the way people lived.

You probably already know Bakhtin's story.
After his death his rediscovered texts proved immensely influential -- particularly in literary studies and sociology.
Rabelais and His World deals, of course, with the bawdy medieval narratives by French writer Rabelais, vaunted by Bakhtin as one of history's most indispensable yet underappreciated literary masters, and the book puts forward the enlightening concept of the carnivalesque.
The problem, here, however, is that all this could probably have been done, and done well, in a thirty-page article or chapter rather than a 500-page book.
An important book to keep on my shelf, I guess, but rather a dog to read...
A philosophy of laughter, public space, the carnival, the banquet, the grotesque body, and other bodily and material baseness in the middle ages, the Renaissance and in the work of Rabelais.
Interesting ideas on the flattening of hierarchical, vertical space, and the shift towards historical time in the body of the grotesque people.
A becoming-body, or the body in a process of infinite metamorphosis.
The body as the center of all things and engine of life and death.
An infinite process of negation of the old and affirmation of the new, of birth and death, of hell's comedy, of praises and insults.
This book was written by the world-wide famous structuralist literary critic, Bakhtin who re-discovers the concept, GROTESQUE, which was indeed intentionally abandoned and suppressed since the Antiquity.
In search of trying to re-define and re-invent the concepts of grotesque, burlesque and carnivalesque, following the steps of Rabelais, the author of Gargantua and Pantagruel, Bakhtin seeks to revive what is most human.
In fact, the book is an excellent inquiry in re-defining what is human and how human beings have carried throughout the ages the carnivalesque 'spirit'.
It is a manifesto in its own genre looking forward to get back to basics.
Call it the history of laughter.why is carnival culture and the humorous side of folk-culture so little documented in historical books?The fact that humor and carnival culture of the lowest people beholds a ancient reappearing wisdom - that it is something revolutionary that questions established ideas in society and religion by seeing things eternally unfinished and ambiguous.i love the thoughts in this book.
I'm just impressed with myself that I got all the way through this book! It was hard work sometimes, but I'm now just a little bit in love with Rabelais. His insults are so much better than Shakespeare's.
Excellent discussion of late Medieval author Francois Rabelais. A fine piece of criticism that also details the deficiencies in Enlightenment thought.
Awesome, though at times too sentimental about the middle ages and renaissance. I love his rendition of the grotesque as a means to embrace ambivalence and fearlessness.
I am pleasantly surprised by this book. Despite never having read Rabelais, Bakhtin's critical examination of this French writer's works serves as a gateway into a theoretical examination of Rabelais's influences, the grotesque, and carnival that I find riveting. For the historical elements of the work, a person may only need to read the first chapter, but there are worthwhile ideas scattered throughout the entire text.
Difícil dem leer, El autor muestra una verdadera erudición del tema. Se refiere a a lo bajo y alto, a la historia de la risa, a lo cómico, lo grotesco, al humanismo del autor, a lo que significaba hace quinientos años la locura y la plaza pública, o la muerte y los banquetes. Desmitifica lo escatológico, después de leerlo se siente la cabeza más llena.
such a great book, a masterpiece
The best.
O estudo aborda o surgimento do que ele chama de linguagem “carnavalesca” – e consequentemente a carnavalização verbal de Rabelais que resulta no grotesco/absurdo de sua obra –, o desenvolvimento do “Realismo Grotesco”, a história do riso na cultura ocidental, a relação entre as formas cômicas não-oficiais e as formas canônicas oficiais dentro da produção cultural da sociedade medieval e a degradação do sublime que, segundo Bakhtin, justificaria toda a obra de Rabelais como uma ode ao riso e ao “corpo”.
Para Bakhtin, a obra de Rabelais e seu princípio organizador de imagens, são mimetizações da realidade carnavalesca da cultura cômica popular medieval; das festas de praça, da linguagem corporal, da expressão dos “infernos do corpo”; o ânus, a satisfação das necessidades naturais, o exagero.
Just a shame I know virtually nothing about Rabelais, or his works.
For clarity's sake; I have skipped the parts that pertained solely to Rabelais.
There was just no use in reading those parts, although, admittedly, they did seem mighty interesting.
That is not to say that 'Rabelais and His World' is a waste of time for people like most of us, Rabelais-ignorants.
Which is strange, considering the fact that Bakhtin only ever writes about medieval accounts of parody and what he likes to call 'carnivalesque' expressions of folk culture.
For all those working around parody, folk culture or medieval humor, this is probably THE reference book.
Što se Rablea tiče, smatram da prvo treba pročitati nasuvo prve tri knjige, bez ikakvog predznanja o tome šta se radi u knjizi, ili o načinu na koji je pisano.
I onda ponovo treba čitati Rablea, u tom svetlu, pa i poslednje dve, koje ipak nisu toliko značajne kao prve tri (za poslednju i sam Bahtin sumnja da joj je Rable autor).Smatram da je ovo jedna od značajnijih studija prošlog veka jer se bavi tematikom koju su mnogi zaobilazili i koja je svima bila gotovo potpuno strana, jer je Rable jedan od onih pisaca koji su bili potpuno natopljeni duhom svog vremena, iako crpi inspiraciju čak i iz antike.
I was challenged to read this by a colleague's off-hand comment about how Bakhtin's work is about art and humor.
I do not know Rabelais' writing first-hand, but now keep Gargantuan on my bedside table.
I was encouraged to read this under the idea that it was about humor and the importance of folk movements in creating and further art.
Rabelais' world was a world of violence and oppression, and so was Bakhtin's.
I also thought about Joyce's encyclopedia knowledge and the kind of base and humorous writing he did.
I've only read part of this book, but I think all that I needed was in the introduction, everything else is just illustration of the general principles laid out in the intro.
But I'll come back to it someday.The theory is really interesting, focusing on the shifting role of laughter and parody from the middle ages to the present.
Bakhtin discusses how the role of the carnival and the grotesque body in the middle ages was one of simultaneous mockery and regeneration, then during the Romantic period laughter became brutal and was only viewed as a legitimate satirical tool.
Starts off increasingly edifying and amusing, putting things in order, providing a wealth of references to medieval literature, elucidating, moving, opening one's eyes on Rabelais' humor and so on.After about a third the style started to get on my nerves, and the suspicion that at least some of the sophistry is due to obligatory Marxist ideals and communistic dialectics (Hegelianism?) gets stronger and more aggressive (and I say that as someone who never read either Marx or Hegel, so no guarantee that that was the problem).While reading the last part I was almost completely numb. No fun with Gogol.
