https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107778.The_Wedding
While I liked this one too I didn't like it as much as the first one. The heroine was just to much of a push over trying to please people and it bugged me but other than that a cute read!
Not that it was bad, it was just not up to par with the other Garwood books I've read.The Wedding starts with 10-year-old Highlander Connor MacAlister promising his dying father to avenge his death by finding out and killing the ones who betrayed him.
She pretty much became a pushover, and that was so different from how she'd behaved in the 1st half of the story that I started to wonder if I was reading the same book.As I finished the book, I was still trying to figure out why and how exactly Connor and Brenna fell in love with each other.
Yes, she will lose her virginity to a filthy guy who forced her to marry him in the most demeaning way possible.Or, after being terrorized, kidnapped, and forced to ride on horseback for hours on end...
After losing her virginity the night before, she is expected to ride a horse for the entirety of the following day until her horse can no longer go on, at which time her new husband decides to abandon her horse.
The Wedding managed to make its way up into the ranks of Garwood books that earned a five star rating.
Also, it's just darn entertaining.I've read many, many romance novels in my thirty-some years, and Julie Garwood has a way of writing singular heroines, like no other author.
I loved the secondary cast of characters, such as Connor's men Quinlan and Crispin, and his people, Father Sinclair, her family, and of course, Laird Alec and Lady Jamie.
He'll realize just how precious the love he has with Brenna, and how that was more important than the vengeance his father swore him to.
She snuck her way into his heart, just like she did mine.Darn!
Yep, still loved it.
I feel like I need to watch Braveheart again to get my Scottish Hottie Fix. Saying that maybe I should move with the times and watch a wee bit of Outlander.Love getting my Julie Garwood fix.**********Loved it!!Seriously, you can't go wrong with a Julie Garwood historical and it's bloody good to know that the same applies to her audios as well.
I loved getting to see Alec and Jamie again and getting to meet their beautiful daughter too.Just bought The Secret on audio so I think I'll keep the Julie Garwood tribute going.
I guess after reading "The Bride," a book with characters that jumped off the pages and had such heart & soul, "The Wedding" felt tedious and slightly obnoxious.
And, for heaven's sake, could Connor become any more obtuse?I felt Brenna and Connor had little, if any, character growth throughout the book, although Connor did change his feelings about marriage and Brenna toward the end.
He did redeem himself at the end; however, it felt like the author forced his character into submission.
Honestly, their love story baffled me.There were some funny and heartwarming parts I did like.The wedding scene was brilliantly written.
Deliver me from witless heroines and ignorant heroes.
Considering this a bodice ripper for my Year Long Historical Romance Challenge.
One of the hardest categories for me...I shall admit it.
Sexy times: Meh. Plan on reading more by the author: At times I consider it.
I know you are all capable of looking at the publisher synopsis.
I can see my new wife is upset, but she can take care of whatever it is.
My wife can't do that and she can't do that and she's incapable (which she very well may be but...) and I like to just leave the holding without telling her.

2.5 starsThe book gets 2.5 stars because :1 Brenna tried to be clever to get her way.
“You made better sense out of my vows than I did.” Half Star - Connor is clueless but tries to keep Brenna happy and comfortable.“I cannot guess what you want.
When you discover who the traitor is, it feels anti climatic and too convenient.Half star - Who forgets a child and leaves them behind?
Julie Garwood is different than most of the romance authors that I read in the fact that I find myself loving her heroines even more than her heroes!
Now that is some serious writing power Ms. Garwood!
She is loyal and loving...whether it's to her horse or her husband.
Brenna is maddened by this an confronts her intimidating husband without apology to get moved back into his bedroom.
Connor is the quintessential Garwood hero.
However, the real gem in this book is Brenna who holds so much power without ever knowing it or wanting it.
Another beautiful read with such emotional moments I cried and laughed so many times.
I would have liked more happy times before the epilogue but it was still one of couldn't put down.
Connor and Brenna had such a tug of war going on yet it just worked.
He was so stubbornly ignorant that it was actually endearing to see him realize his love and that he's stronger for it not weaker.
Big rough, stubborn, arrogant and egotistical alphas..
They seem to be my weakness especially and only if they are loyal and protective from the start which Connor fit perfectly.
This was a good mix of camp and serious.
Definitely darker than The Bride, but still contained Garwood's wit and humor.
He doesn't actually treat her cruelly himself, but he's very tied up in his vengeance plots against another Laird and leaves her to the crappy in-laws from hell.
Also the enemy Laird does a terrible thing that really upset me.
(view spoiler)[He kills her horse and has the remains sent to her and Conner.
(hide spoiler)]We also get to see quite a bit of Jamie and Alec, which was very nice.I'm not sure how historically accurate these books are, but they are very entertaining.
Julie Garwood at her finest. This is probably one of my favorite books of all time. I loved Brenna and I LOVED Connor. I think I've probably read this book 50 times. I wish Garwood still wrote like this.
I enjoyed the The Bride,but i felt this books was much more thorough, hence more satisfying ending.I loved the way Garwood developed this characters;we had enough information on both of them from their childhood.which makes the plot a notch more deep.
In some other book a character such as him would have made me annoyed,instead Connor had me laughing with the genuine lack of knowledge on interpreting emotions.
(that back and forth train of thought was the little speck in the story IMO).but she is very funny too..
I had many good times laughing at the quips from both H/H to second characters..
Yet another book with an unattractive title that hides a wonderful and rich story.
I loved Brenna.
She is right up there with Penelope from Penelope and Callie from Nine Rules to Break When Romancing a Rake as far as my favourite heroines from humorous historical romances go.
Here you'll find silliness and a lot of funny moments.
However, there is a bit of drama, seriousness and ugliness too to balance the story out.
And The Wedding is a perfect blend.
Connor's past and his father's legacy had to clash with Brenna's positive personality.
I enjoyed this book. I shall give an entire review at a later date. I do highly recommend it however.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Her ‘The bride’ was beautifully done with a surly H brought to heel by a sweet innocent and giving bride.In this sequel, she does it again.
I love an abducted bride and a forced marriage do, and these two have a sweet history and are not strictly strangers.
So when in the present, he decides to abduct his enemy’s intended and realizes it’s the brat from the past who wanted to be his bride, he takes the excuse of finally accepting her proposal.
In true Julie Garwood tradition, the h is sweet, ditsy, funny and amenable.
The h also starts getting on your nerves with her silly antics.
3.5... didn't love this one as much as the first in the series. It was ok .. I was just never really able to connect with Brenna and Connor as a couple; I didn't feel an overwhelming chemistry between them. Still a cute read and Brenna was hilarious at times. It was a cute one.
3.75 Stars
My favorite line of all time:"Nay, lass. Conner."
4.25 starsVery enjoyable.
It was amazing but still my favourite Julie Garwood book is Honor's Splendour. Nobody can beat my Duncan. (^_^)
2,5/5 "Lo que me destroza el corazón es que dejaste muy claro que aquello que es importante para mí, no significa nada para ti." Lo que me destroza a mí, es que este libro no me haya gustado. Qué infeliz me dejó. "Era un completo ignorante en lo referente a los sentimentos femeninos, se dijo ella, para no enfadarse." Esto está mal, chicos, está muy mal.  "Parecía decidido a estropear todos los momentos gratos con algún comentario desagradable." Brenna tiene efímeros momentos de lucidez en los qu
"Lo que me destroza el corazón es que dejaste muy claro que aquello que es importante para mí, no significa nada para ti."
Brenna tiene efímeros momentos de lucidez en los que dice algo coherente, como la frase anterior, pero luego todo cae en un oscuro pozo de excusas para con su marido.
Connor le quita todo: la aleja de su hermanos, de sus preciadas posesiones, de su caballo, y ella lo deja, porque cree que es lo mejor para su matrimonio.
Connor no tiene la más remota idea de cómo tratar a Brenna, así que le ordena todo el tiempo.
Lady Brenna was in the Highlands because her father got her an arranged match.
Connor reminds her that she did asked him to marry her 3 times and that he is finally accepting.
And Connor wants to marry her on an act of revenge, agaist her former betrothed, the man he thinks is responsible for his father death!But it comes a time, where the reasons they got married ceases to exist and the attraction they feel for each other threatens to overwhelm them!
He'd needed her to breathe,to feel...
4.5 Stars!I love this series! The inner dialogue of these characters is hilarious. We have a great heroine who does not conform to the demure, obedient female mold of those times. A dominant highlander male who is exasperated with his wife's antics but loves, treasures and protects her above all else. Just fantastic! Still not better than The Bride though.
It was a nice read but after reading 2 books of this author in the past it kind of felt like I have read this one before, the books seemed alike and it wasn’t interesting enough for me.
I really delighted in the heroine's character, Brenna.
Brenna was going to make her marriage work, and that was one outstanding feat, for Connor MacAlister is one formidable, unemotional Highlander.
Connor's past has shaped his actions and his need for revenge is no secret.
Yet his English bride Brenna manages to tap upon his heart, little by little breaking down his hard exterior, reaching into his soul and releasing the love he has for her.
Brenna makes Connor realize that loving someone does make him vulnerable, yet it doesn't make him less of a man.
~Daryl V.
Hoole, The Art of Homemaking (1967)* Looking back at history pages, There used to be a rule that a woman's place was firmly regarded as in the home, her career goals were producing kids, serving time on dinner, the most important part of a woman`s life was catering to her husband`s needs.Women were expected to appear as though they have everything together, smile politely and speak softly, questioning nothing?Yet still, Women are still treated unequally, with men being the dominant gender, somehow women just ended up as housewives again, but certain ladies have fought courageously and tirelessly to assert themselves as individuals and experts in their field, something most men have had the luxury of taking for granted,Thankfully we now live in an age where feminist thought is considered the norm.
Re-read Dec 2012Sublime dialogue.
I absolutely loved it!Julie Garwood, as always, writes such charming and funny interactions between her characters.
I can't stand misunderstanding being used as a driver of tension, because for me it's usually very weak.
Therefore, I love how Garwood sorts these out very swiftly and intelligently through her dialogue.
I can't tell you how many times I read books and get annoyed thinking 'for gods sake, just talk to each other!'.
It's hard to stay on board with characters when they behave like idiots.
Yey!!Brenna is sweet, innocent, head strong and loveable.
Conner is strong, protective, emotionally unpracticed and an animal in bed.
I just spent four shameless hours reading this romantic historical, and ((GASP)) I loved every minute of it!
LOLOL Julie Garword pens a great, faced-paced, funny romance where her male characters are saa-woon worthy and mighty fine.The Wedding is a simple love story about a ginormous Scottish Laird named Connor, who also happens to be hawt and ….
well alpha of course… He captures the bride of his sworn enemy and ((big surprise)) marries Brenna to spite his foes.
*waves nerdy sap flag with pride* Enjoyable and worth the hours I spent drooling over the Scottie MacHottie.
