https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241713.Selected_Writings
the true "self," which will probably enlighten you better than my poor scribblings:Our personality itself, which, stupidly, we take to be our most intimate and deepest possession, our sovereign good, is only a thing, and mutable and accidental in comparison with this other most naked ego; since we can think about it, calculate its interests, even lose sight of them a little, it is therefore no more than a secondary psychological divinity that lives in our looking-glass and answers to our name.
The Bee Haiku[Inspired by S., and of course Paul Valery's poem "The Bee"]My love lies dormant,But if
Reading Valery's prose is never unfulfilling. He was a polymath in every regard, and often there are so many ideas and images in one paragraph that a reader is overwhelmed. The problem with this selection is the amount to which the body of his ideas is distilled, chopped apart. One is left only wanting. Each selection seems to end before the idea is flushed out. I suppose this volume can serve to test the waters.
Beau ciel, vrai ciel, regarde-moi qui change!Après tant d’orgueil, après tant d’étrangeOisiveté, mais pleine de pouvoir,Je m’abandonne à ce brillant espace,Sur les maisons des morts mon ombre passeQui m’apprivoise à son frêle mouvoir.7.
Sais-tu, fausse captive des feuillages,Golfe mangeur de ces maigres grillages,Sur mes yeux clos, secrets éblouissants,Quel corps me traîne à sa fin paresseuse,Quel front l’attire à cette terre osseuse?Une étincelle y pense à mes absents.10.
Dans l’ère successive!Brisez, mon corps, cette forme pensive!Buvez, mon sein, la naissance du vent!Une fraîcheur, de la mer exhalée,Me rend mon âme .
Great French poet and philosopher.Must read his essays and also his life!For the Le cimetière marin (in Turkish - DENIZ MEZARLIGI-, English and French):http://sirbookstore.blogspot.be/2017/...
He rambles on for pages among abstractions and idealism without ever coming to rest on an example which demonstrates his point.
Now, if you read twenty pages at a stretch you will certainly come up with some intense ideas here and there..but the problem is you have to sift through a dozen others in the same stretch which are only worth dismissing.
Both his good ideas and his bad ideas all resound the same in one's ears.
Valery thinks every one of his ideas is fabulous and expends the same vigorous effort on each.His poetry is the kind where the poet begins lines like this: "Oh!
This book of poems and fragments (the editor's word) of Valéry is not easy going.
I had to read it in small doses because of his prose is so packed with ideas, skimming would be fatal to the effect.Of the poems my favorite was "The Graveyard by the Sea" - timeless and haunting and very "French".
The other poems were a delight to read - he wrote for the reader, which this reader always appreciates!The prose pieces were very scattered - they are fragments as the editor puts it.
So you're reading them as an ephemeral entity - for the immediate words and ideas and not as a close argument.
Until now I had only read about Valery. Now I understand first hand his unique genius. A brilliant poet and a great essayist. His philosophical ideas on art and language are every bit as important as his poetry. The selected writings are a great introduction.
Sincere as the tide that you know you cannot control but you're mad at it for it not betraying what it always was, will be…
I have enjoyed most of the book. Paul Valéry is a theopoet with very interesting insights about God, man and the world. I have learned that to understand a poem we first need to understand the poet.
His notebooks mostly for me were the most fascinating, his meditations on the nature of what poetry is and isn't.
