https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2324568.The_Sailor_from_Gibraltar
Their relationship borders on a love, yet they always exist in a state of fluidity, as if found, the sailor from Gibraltar and Anna may find it hard not to rekindle their passions.In this early novel before Marguerite Duras started writing more minimal and haunting work, she tells a mysterious and exotic love story, taking place on land and sea, with the claustrophobic nature riding the waves only drawing two people closer together.
Le Marin de Gibraltar = The Sailor from Gibraltar, Marguerite Duras Marguerite Donnadieu, known as Marguerite Duras (April 1914 – 3 March 1996), was a French novelist, playwright, scriptwriter, essayist, and experimental filmmaker. Her 1959 film Hiroshima mon amour, earned her a nomination for Best Original Screenplay at the Academy Awards.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه آگوست سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: دریانورد جبل الطارق؛ نویسنده: ملرگریت دوراس؛ مترجم: پرویز شهدی؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1379؛ در 438 ص؛ شابک
Her 1959 film Hiroshima mon amour, earned her a nomination for Best Original Screenplay at the Academy Awards.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه آگوست سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: دریانورد جبل‌ الطارق؛ نویسنده: ملرگریت دوراس؛ مترجم: پرویز شهدی؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1379؛ در 438 ص؛ شابک: 9643112357؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسوس - قرن 20 مبرای بانوی داستان نویسی مدرن، عشق، سرکشی، هیجان، درد و هجران آن، رسیدن به معشوق و سپس فارغ شدن و ملال و دلزدگی.
دریانورد جبل‌الطارق تا وقتی که آن موجود آزاده و سرکش و فراری و دست نیافتنی ست می‌تواند شعله‌ ی عشق را در دل زن برافروزد، در غیر اینصورت مردی می‌شود شبیه همه‌ ی مردان دیگربخشی از این کتاب: روزی روزگاری مردی زندگی میکرد که خوشبخت نبود، زنی داشت که دلخواه مرد نبود، و کاری داشت که از آن نفرت داشت.
انسان در جستجوی معنی انسان در جستجوی مرد جبلالطارقیداستانی در باب ملال و معنای زندگیماجرای داستان از این قرار است که یک مرد فرانسوی (راوی) که برای تفریح همراه دوستدختر خود به ایتالیا آمده، با زنی آمریکایی (آنّا) که صاحت یک کشتی قارهپیمای کوچک است آشنا میشود، در تصمیمی رهاییبخش، دوستدختر و شغل و زندگی گذشتهاش را رها میکند تا در هدفی بعید - یافتن معشوق گمشدهی آنا - همراه او شود.یکم - مرد فرانسویدر مسافرتی ملالانگیز، در هوایی گرم و خاکآلود در کابین یک کامیون باری با مرد راننده دربارهی زندگی خستهکنن
انسان در جستجوی معنی انسان در جستجوی مرد جبل‌الطارقیداستانی در باب ملال و معنای زندگیماجرای داستان از این قرار است که یک مرد فرانسوی (راوی) که برای تفریح همراه دوست‌دختر خود به ایتالیا آمده، با زنی آمریکایی (آنّا) که صاحت یک کشتی قاره‌پیمای کوچک است آشنا می‌شود، در تصمیمی رهایی‌بخش، دوست‌دختر و شغل و زندگی گذشته‌اش را رها می‌کند تا در هدفی بعید - یافتن معشوق گمشده‌ی آنا - همراه او شود.یکم - مرد فرانسویدر مسافرتی ملال‌انگیز، در هوایی گرم و خاک‌آلود در کابین یک کامیون باری با مرد راننده درباره‌ی زندگی خسته‌کننده‌اش صحبت می‌کند، یک شغل تکراری در بخش ثبت احوال اداره‌ی مستعمرات و دوست‌دختری شاد که به طرزی کشنده نسبت به هرچیزی خوشبین است.
If Le Marin de Gibraltar Were A Woman- Yo, DUDE!- Uh, sorry. I didn't see you.- I've been waving to you for the last five minutes.- Um... I was thinking about something else.- And where've you BEEN? I've called a bunch of times, and you never get back to me.- Oh, you know, busy...- Who is she?The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
I do love these Duras books ,this one left me deep in cigarette smoke ,whiskey ,sea spray,cormorants and a long sensual search for The Sailor she loved long ago.I am a fool for love and love this premise of searching the worlds ports trying to find him again. Marguerite Duras has a certain style of writing that takes time to wander through and things move quite slowly. But that said i enjoyed the ride as only she can do in a very sultry french style. tres beau.
A primeira obra que leio de Marguerite Duras e já fiquei apaixonada com o modo como ela narra as suas histórias.O inicio foi meio morna.
Mas logo que ele conhecesse a mulher do marinheiro de Gibraltar a narração se altera.
E entra-se num mundo de aventuras e de viagens arrebatadoras.Esta mulher sofre por um homem que ela conheceu a muito tempo quando fez as suas primeiras viagens.
Mas imagino que Anne acabaria por dar conta que o seu verdadeiro amor é o narrador, que esteve sempre disposto a ouvir a sua história e fez todo para contribuir para a sua felicidade.
Отбелязвам книгата като четена, защото ми останаха 30 страници, които не знам дали ще намеря достатъчно вътрешна сила да се накарам да прочета. Изключително досадно -скучна история, нищо не се случва. Безмислени диалози и описания кой кого как погледнал. Не знам дали е от превода или Дюрас наистина пише така, но на моменти изреченията са толкова ненужно накъсани. Че. Не мога. Изобщо. Да схвана. Нищо. Хубаво да пишеш за любовта, но не по този блатясал начин. Съжалявам. Не е моето.
Duras imbues the novel with a sense of surrealness and paranoia, yet the novel is lacking the coherence of some of her greater works. An original, if at times slightly ponderous novel.
I confess that in spite of having studied French I had never read Marguerite Duras until picking up The Sailor From Gibraltar.
The kind of malaise, boredom, and drunken, sun-addled stupor in which the characters are adrift comes off the page and settles on the reader.The plot is deceptively simple; it starts with the narrator, who is on vacation from a Bartleby-like job in the Foreign Service, where he copies birth and death certificates.
This is the second imprint from Open Letter Books that I have read and if their choices for works in translation continue to be this good, I will start to seek out more works from their catalog.
The Sailor from Gibraltar is a marvellous dreamy book – reading it is like drifting away from all that’s mundane and real.The University of Rochester’s Open Letter Press is a non-profit literary translation press, dedicated to opening cultural borders.
Once again, the impulse is urgent, and Jacqueline goes along with it even though she’s been enjoying the tourist delights of Florence while he – to her frustration – has been wasting his days in cafés drinking coffee and crème de menthe.To read the rest of my review please visit http://anzlitlovers.com/2014/09/24/th...
Potraga za mornarom s Gibraltara je konačno,kod mene,završila.Vrlo malo akcije,puno dijaloga smještenog na 36-metarskoj jahti bogate udovice,i sve to matopljeno ogromnom količinom alkohola!Jedva dočekah kraj..
Couldn't get into this book.
"Optimistai turi savybe nukamuoti jus." "... jie istreme is savo gyvenimo ta laisve, kuri pavojingai keicia nuotaikas."
These are the questions that keep on recurring as one reads this novel for which the narrator himself issues a disclaimer somewhere in the middle of the narrative: “If I you told this story in a book no one would believe you.” But he can be easily disregarded when he said that.Near the novel’s ending, the crew of the Gibraltar receives a tip that they may have, yet again, hit upon the sailor’s tracks.
And even if it was the real sailor from Gibraltar, will Anna find her happiness in this man?
I think The Sailor from Gibraltar is best summed up as the antithesis to Paul Bowles's The Sheltering Sky, the darkly hypnotic tale, first published in 1949, of insipid American tourists lost in the stark and monotonous dunes of the Sahara.
Interestingly, both novels draw from Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness, but whereas Bowles and Conrad both focus on death and madness, Duras treats the journey into the alien unknown as merely one more episode in a leisurely, never-ending adventure.
But publishing aesthetics aside, The Sailor from Gibraltar comes highly recommended.
[return][return]Cigarettes, whiskey and the ironic conversation of a broad cast of interesting characters carries what is, essentially, a travel novel that journeys across Italy, through the Mediterranean, Tangier and the north coast of Africa, south to the tropics, leaving the sea and ending in the dense humidity of the Congo.[return][return]The book is narrated by a man vacationing in Italy shortly after the war, bored and uninterested in anything to do with this holiday.
The narrator accepts that he is perhaps only a temporary lover, one of many, taken on during this never-ending quest.[return][return]Ennui, boredom and dissatisfaction are curiously melded with eternal passivity.
I loved the book.
I think Duras does a lovely job of exploring the themes that will later be central to her work: love, alienation, distance, obsession and the meaning of life.
I'm not giving it 5 stars only because I found the main male character to be a dick to his girlfriend, and even though I understand that he is an archetype similar to many other protagonists of existentialist novels, full of doubts and ennui, (Camus, Beckett, Svevo) I still hated the fact that he was a total asshole to the poor girl.
Iako je započelo obećavajuće i s nekoliko misli na prvi stranicama me roman zaokupio i očekivala sam puno više.Mislim da ima barem 250 stranica viška.Najviše me smeta nevjerodostojnost i ispraznost.
وانگهی مواقعی هم هست که آدم چمدان هایش را برای رفتن نمی بندد، بلکه میخواهد طرف مقابل را بترساند.زن ها، همه ی زن ها برای یک بار در زندگیشان هم که شده چمدان هایشان را بسته اند. آدم این کار را میکند که نگهش دارند.
Lisbon Book-Fair 2015.
Parfait pour penser à vos amours d'été.
ou plutôt ce sont des quêtes qui sont au coeur de ce roman.
Au milieu, une jeune femme, convoitée, riche, éperdument amoureuse du Marin de Gibraltar, disparu des radars du monde et donc de sa vie.Le narrateur qui était en vacances en Italie, à Florence, est épris d'une forte remise en question, voulant un nouveau départ, se départir de sa fonction et de sa compagne.
Sortir d'une vie qui n'était pas la sienne.
Mais Anna n'a qu'une seule obsession en tête : son Marin de Gibraltar.
“I’ve always thought,” I said, “that anyone who makes someone else doubt the foundations of his morals hasn’t lived in vain.”Our daughter loaned us the book.
My wife and I both read it.
I had never heard of Marguerite Duras.
The Sailor From Gibraltar is an odyssey of sorts, and a strange kind of love story.
Both loves are one-sided, obsessive, and blind.
It charts the murky depths of love and, certainly, life as well.Written and translated in tough, lean prose, the book is a search for something that doesn’t exist.
The story and its characters are full of contradictions.
Enfin fini!!! J’ai failli abandonner après 100 pages, et je regrette d’avoir continu. Déjà, ça prend 100 pages avant que le personnage principal quitte sa femme et monte au bateau, et avant ça il est juste insupportable avec sa femme et son environnement. Une fois sur le bateau il ne se passe pas grande chose, il reste macho et insupportable. Je m’attendais à des belles descriptions de l’Italie et l’Afrique mais je n’en ai trouvé aucune. Très déçue de cette lecture.
As much as I loved the Lover, I cannot help but being disappointed by this novel. The dialogues are too long and lead you nowhere, the characters unrealistic and whimsical. I especially found that conversations are not supported by any logical basis, they seem to be a series of sentences disconnected from one another.A few lyrical moments are a reminder of the great writer here, but the final blow to me was the open finale.
Duras has very typical writing style of her own. Easy to tell it's a Duras book by reading some phrases. Want to re-read it in English.
"except accept them"
Um livro bem escrito lembrando-me outros escritores francófonos como Camus e Sagan. Gostei da primeira parte, a escrita leva-nos para m ambiente estranho fazendo-nos viajar e questionando-nos sobre a nossa vida; existe uma segunda parte que implica uma viagem a África de iate onde achei a leitura maçuda. Mas não deixa de ser um bom livro.
A Man, A Woman, A Search For Love and Happiness: The Sailor from Gibraltar by Marguerite DurasAbridged version of my review posted on Edith’s Miscellany on 27 September 2013The story of The Sailor from Gibraltar begins on a hot day in August 1947.
It is said that she has been travelling the world for years in search of the man she loves, a murderer on the run whom Anna simply calls the sailor from Gibraltar.
There isn’t much action in this novel because Marguerite Duras is more interested in the characters of the narrator and Anna, two lonely creatures running after happiness and love.
Остана си недовършена...
