https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239103.Siege_of_Darkness
Maybe the best Drizzt book in the whole series until now. Everything that build up over the last few books comes to its epic conclusion, with a more than 100+ page battle around Mithril Hall.And I must say the best parts in these books are the short interludes by Drizzt. Truly fantastically written!
I've already commented on this series as a whole, but this book marks a turning point.By the time the reader has reached this book, the formula is set in stone.
Drizzt fights and wins, then fights and wins again.
The villain never dies, the supporting characters make brief quips, and nobody but nobody gets one single hint of development as a human character (except for Drizzt, who stopped developing several books ago).Appropriate for young children, and possibly as a guilty pleasure.
Don't get me wrong: I have fond memories of cuddling up with this book and a mug of hot chocolate.
I really, really just hate the main characters in these books.The sad thing is I Love reading about the Drow.
They are just so much more interesting and I think that's why I enjoyed the first half, because Drizzt was no where to be found and it mostly took place in the Drow city.
If there was a book just about them then I would probably read it and enjoy it a lot more.
Now if it was 13+ books I'd probably end up hating them all.It will be awhile before I pick these up again and finish the ones I have.
This is where in Salvatore's books that he starts to move to many, MANY, MANY scenes of fighting.
The focus seems to be on fighting technique...
I agree has its place, but although I am rereading his books...
Too many fight scenes BORE me.
I prefer properly placed fight scenes and more focus on the characters and story.
He has some very good points that are now Drittz commentary between chapters and not as interwoven with the characters and story as before.
The substance (for me) comes in small sporatic packages instead of interwoven in the storyline....
But I prefer his earlier works best
I would say that this was the best book in the Drizzt Do'Urden series so far. I liked all the intrigue and house-wars in Menzoberranzan, especially since Jarlaxle is my favorite character in Salvatore's books. Though in some places, it did feel like the author needed to amass pages, so there were scenes where the characters' thoughts basically ran in circles to add a paragraph here and there. On the other hand, some of the scenes and characters were hilarious, especially the Harpells! Harkle's eyeballs popping up in the Mithral Hall left me in tears, I laughed so hard!
I found it a little uneven and disjointed, but the Time of Troubles part is pretty cool.
There's nothing here to make this one stand out from the others, but it fits the bill if you're looking to spend time in the world and with the characters.
Love it. It kept me on the edge of madness every time I had to put the book down.
The months that I had between picking up Drizzt books were like a much-needed healing salve, and that salve worked wonders.Once again, I was reminded why I like Salvatore's writing so much.
And you come to realize that the one friendly character that you had previously hoped would be killed off isn't as annoying as you remembered him to be (or maybe that's just me).I'm once again drawn into Drizzt's world.
And I'm eager to know how the alliances that were forged will fare in future books, and how Menzoberranzan will look once the dust settles.
On the one hand, Salvatore tends to work in trilogies with a very consistent pacing: the first volume establishes the particular challenge facing Our Heroes, with promises that this is really The Biggest Threat Ever.
In the concluding volume, Our Heroes kick much booty, often to a ridiculously Mary-Sueish degree, although a few minor characters on the fringes die off in order to emphasize how Threatening this Threatenly Threat was, No Really, Seriously, I Mean It This Time Guys.The previous paragraph's indulgence in capital letters comes to you courtesy of the fact that Salvatore is, quite openly and happily, working in a formulaic trench of classic sword-and-sorcery tropes.
One of the things I enjoy the most is Drizzt's comments at the beginning of each new part.
Here are some of my favorites from this book: Faith is not granted by tangible proof.
If a person needs proof of god's existence, then the very notion of spiritually is diminished into sensuality and we have reduced what is holy into what is logical.
Truth is singular and cannot, by definition, support so many varied, even opposing manifestations.Who would have expected to find such reflections in a fantasy/scifi?
But I like to see truths where they can be found---sometimes in the most unlikely places.
Not my favorite of the Drizzt Do'Urden books so far.
Some of the scenes/passages didn't make sense.
For exampe:1.
Errtu only shows up at the beginning and end of the novel.
What is he doing in the meantime?2.
What the heck was the "Time of Troubles"?
It suddenly appeared, then left without any explanation.3.
Why the longevity of the battle scenes with no explanation of why they're there?5.
Where did this whole fight with Catti-brie's sword come from?I definately would've liked more explanations and more coherence.
It was a good fluff novel though, if you can say that at all.
Well... I am giving this book 2 stars only because it was all about battle. I didn't like the battles in Lord of the Rings either. Plus we don't get to spend too much time with the main characters... there were just different battles going on with the minor characters. And I am tired of the Underdark! Let's get into other plots!
The ending was rather satisfying, but this one wasn't as thrilling to me as the rest of the Drizzt saga. I started reading a few chapters and then lost interest and put it down for several months before finishing it. The story seems to have a slow start, but would be a good read for those who enjoy massive fantasy battles.
These novels follow the adventures of Drizzt Do’Urden, a dark elf. The main gist of the stories is that Drizzt is awesome and kicks a lot of ass. Open one of these books to a random page, and chances are you’ll read about Drizzt being awesome and kicking ass. Not only does he wield two scimitars in battle, but he has some kind of magic panther as a pet. Awesome.
After eight books, you pretty much know what to expect. Yes, there's some minor twists in book nine regarding the enemies but the hero characters all do what is expected. Is this a bad thing? No, if you love the main characters and the odd, functional family they've become then you'll cheer them on and look forward to their heroic moments.
Started strong and really felt like it dragged on a little during the last 1/3 of the book. As is usual with RAS's style, very strong fight sequences and detail. Also appreciated the nod to the Monster Manual with the cast of foes he draws on.
Üheksas raamat sarjast ja kirjanik ei näita veel mingeid väsimuse märke. Mis on hea, sest (hetkeseisuga) on 20 raamatut veel. Arvatavasti vähemalt 21, kui ma sinnamaani jõuan.
A lot of fun. The long war battle at the end was rally great.
(Me, I found it refreshing, since Legacy followed the opposite sort of formula, where two thirds of the page count was devoted to fighting with only a small bit of character development.) Some might also notice that Drizzt isn't as active in this book as he is in the others - for instance, he and Catti-brie go to visit the barbarians of Settlestone to negotiate a treaty, and Catti-brie ends up doing most of the work.
More impressive is the fact that Salvatore managed to make this a tie-in novel of sorts to the Time of Troubles, a major D&D event that ushered in the second edition of the game.
"Normally it pleased Jarlaxle to be in the middle of such a conflict, to be the object of wooing tactics by both sides in dispute. This time, though, Jarlaxle was uneasy with the position" (151). Rating 4 stars... Without Cattie-Brie it might have been a 5. Book Series Book 9 of The Legend of Drizzt series (30+ books). My Thoughts I would like to nominate Jarlaxle to MVP (Most Valuable Player) and Cattie-Brie to LVP (Least Valuable Player). Jarlaxle We got to see Jarlaxle manuever between allian
I would like to nominate Jarlaxle to MVP (Most Valuable Player) and Cattie-Brie to LVP (Least Valuable Player).
We got to see Jarlaxle manuever between alliances with members of opposing sides while simultaneously representing his own interests.
There were quite a few times where Jarlaxle didn't say what was on his mind, but the reader knows what he's thinking.
There was some character-growth via demonic sword, which brought Cattie-Brie from one-dimensional to two-dimensional, but it's hard for me to praise anything that brought about this scene:"There was no pursuit.
Minus Cattie-Brie, the first two thirds of the book were my favorite.
The partial results can be laugh-out-loud funny, but given that another war between Menzoberrenzon and Mithral Hall is brewing, the uncertainty is more than annoying.
In Menzoberrenzon the failure of magic fuels an attempt to rearrange the power structure of the city.
In Mithral Hall, it disrupts the preparations for the defense of the dwarven stronghold.The second half of the book details the war between Menzoberrenzon and the dwarves of Mithral Hall.
Many of the other people of the land join Mithral Hall’s dwarves in the battle, but for a long time, it looks as if that will not be enough.
(view spoiler)[ The Time of Trouble is an example of this.
When that plot point started I was like "Well this is weird and random," but then as the story progressed I got into it and was like "This has some really interesting potential for story.
My husband explained that it was something to tie in with D&D campaign stuff at the time, but as a person reading it now, it was kind of weird.
(hide spoiler)] I also felt there were a few too many Deus Ex Machinae.
I feel like I would like to read a book about either of those groups.
The Drizzt series continues to hold my interest, far longer than any other fantasy series I've read.
I did enjoy the Dragonlance books, but I only got a few books into the series before I found myself reading, but not reading.Drizzt is really a solid character that you side with from the beginning.
I've always had an affinity for characters with really strong moral values, and Drizzt is the most intriguing character I've had a chance to read about.
I won't read the story again, but I definitely recommend it to anyone who enjoys fantasy stories.
Where the Sun never setsWhat wonders lie in store for Catti & Drizzt & where is Artemis Enteri & Marcella ? The Sun coast beckons with dragons and wizards. What creatures good and bad await. Alas the Sun coast will not have Wulfgar to man the sails alongside The Companions of the Hall.Who has Erttu begin to punish? Salvatore has once again taken us even farther than ever before and seems only to get better and better.
It is the second time I read this book. The first time I was barely an adult, on my last years of university. I think it left a profound impression in me. Now when I read it back I smiled at some chapters, at how naive some characters look now from my more adult perspective(a more pragmatic one I must say) but I had missed this kind of pure hearts in modern adventure books. Salvatore knows very well who is Drizzt Do'Urden. The personification of pride and honour. And I love him for that.
I enjoyed this novel more than the previous few in the drizzt series. Again I feel Salvatore puts too much fighting in his novels which feels repetitive as there are only so many ways to describe a sword fight especially involving the same character, but when he is not focing on Drizzts battle prowess the writing is exemplary.
The conclusion to this Drizzt trilogy finds the Drow planning to invade Mithril Hall. Had an up and down plot. Liked the machinations and plots amongst the Drow when magic wasn’t working, which really wasn’t explained other than Deities were fighting and doing stuff. The final battle was really lacking and kind of meandered back and forth and many points seemed to be glossed over.
Conclusion of the WarThis is one of my favorite books of the series so far. An epic war through the Undercity tunnels beneath Mithral Hall and above on the surface between the combined armies of Mithral Hall and allies (even a surprising new ally) versus the Drow and their slave humanoid army.
I give up! Uncle! These books are the same story told over and over with trivial changes made. If you've read the first 6, there's no reason to go further and hear AGAIN about: The Drow, The Do'Urden, Drizzt, Drizzt Do'Urden, The Ranger, The Drow (again? yes), The Drow, Drizzt, The Ranger, etc, etc, ad nauseum. These books are dreadfully dull. I give up... DNF?
