https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40606240-the-guilty
Had I not read this book, I would never have believed Baldacci capable of supplanting Wish You Well as the most uninteresting-not to mention trite and arduous-book of his career. This was painful. Pace yourself by taking multiple breaks.
Knowing that his father and his inability to clear his mind during his missions are connected, he hopes to sort out matters with his estranged dad and understand why his girlfriend at the time ditched him at the last minute.Drawn into the hidden underside of Cantrell, learning the effects of his choices he made just before he left twenty years ago and trying to help uncover the real killer leads him to near death and a much more dangerous mission he may ever have been on before.I thoroughly enjoyed reading about Will's early home life and although Jessica didn't play a major part in the story I liked how their relationship continued to grow.
Will Robie’s past is having an emotional effect on his job and he will have to face it head-on before he can move forward with his life.His last assignment, where he killed an innocent bystander has resulted in him questioning his capabilities and adding to his problems is that he’s been informed that his father, a former marine, who he hasn’t seen since leaving home at 18, has been arrested for murder in his hometown.Deciding to confront his demons from his past, he thinks back about his parent’s marriage, the love he left behind as he travels to his hometown, the small town of Cantrell, Mississippi.
The GuiltyI love all of David Baldacci's series but this one is by far my favorite. The stories are always fast paced and enjoyable. I'm always waiting for the next book to be published.
Lately, the only novels of his I’ve enjoyed are the John Puller books.
“The Forgotten,” which was the first Baldacci book I ever read, as well as ‘Zero Day’ and ‘The Escape’ were great novels.However, the last several non-Puller books I came across were really struggles to get through.
Well, I cant believe I’m writing this about a Baldacci novel but for the first time in my life, I simply could NOT finish it.
Why do so many characters have ‘daddy issues’, be it Michelle Maxwell, John Puller and now Will Robie?Why does every protagonist have deep-seeded self-doubt and always ALWAYS have mixed emotions about what they do?Will Robie comes from a small town in the swamps of Mississippi.
You know I recently finished 2 "thrillers" that I rated fairly low mainly because they devolved from their "thriller roots" into stories about the personal lives of the protagonists.Here Mr. Baldacci did the same thing...and drew me in so thoroughly that it kept me awake nights following the book and not wanting to put it down.We've gotten to know Robie (along with his co-protagonist Jessica) by now and I guess that may make the difference.
I mean if a TV series starts out and establishes itself and it's characters (ala N.C.I.S, C.S.I. etc) before we get our first "very special episode" (you know where they kill a main character or the love interest of a main character or whatever) then it usually works.
The newest Will Robie novel was a little disappointing, at least for me.
In killing a target, the bullet accidentally kills the target's daughter that was not supposed to be there, and he loses his edge.
While home on rest leave, the Blue Man tells Will that his estranged father has been arrested for murder.
He then works to solve a murder, in the context of accumulating dead bodies.
Will is not really a detective, and there are much better authors for Southern pulp mysteries, like Greg Iles and John Hart.
I did like the ending though, which I did not see coming.
This was by far my favorite Will Robie book in the series!
I absolutely loved reading about Will’s family, hometown, and past.
I actually really find them entertaining together and I’m glad it is continuing in the series.
I am thoroughly looking forward to reading End Game right after I read the Fallen (Amos Decker recent book).
My quick and simple overall: By far my favorite in the Will Robie series.
The personal aspect to Will’s character just added so much to this story, along with a hell of an intriguing plot and crimes.
Meanwhile, Robie’s father has been arrested for murder in the small Gulf Coast town of Cantrell, Mississippi, a place Will left immediately after high school and never looked back.Now forced to confront his painful past – much of which stems from his strained relationship with his father – Robie's returns to Cantrell in an effort to resolve the wounds of his past and get his professional mojo back.
That is, until one fateful day when he chokes.His secretive boss, Blue Man, puts him on leave; and because there's some evidence that his sudden change is rooted to unreserved issues from his childhood, he heads back to his old home in rural Cantrell, Mississippi to confront the people and places he left 20 years earlier.After he left home - and his lawyer father, Dan Robie - Will never went back and never had further contact with his father, who abused his son both physically and mentally.
Will doesn't want to believe it, but his contrarian father isn't talking and refuses any help from his son.
I like the Will Robie series.
This is another great installment to the series.
You could probably read it as a stand alone but I think you need to start with book 1.
This time Will's Dad is accused of murder and for the first time in 22 years Will is headed home to see if he can find out what is going on.
He hasn't talked to his Dad since leaving after graduating from High School.
Lots of things go wrong in the small Mississippi town and there is more going on than what you think.
Lots of fast action and twists and turns.
When I got this book, I thought it was a murder mystery novel.
When I started reading it I was reading about a CIA sniper.
My curiosity kept me reading and it did turn into a murder mystery.The book is well written.
The plot and subplots twisted about.
The story is primarily dialogue driven.
The characters are interesting and continue to develop during the story.
I must say the ending was a complete surprise to me.
If you enjoy a good mystery this book is for you.I read this as a hard-back book.
It is 420 pages.
Published Grand Central Publishing in 2015.
3.5 Loved spending lots of time in Will's pov but the book, which started out as a typical suspense novel, sort of devolved into a deranged Gothic monstrosity that had way too many characters and was overly complicated. I mean, I like deranged Gothic monstrosities but they have to be well-done, you know.And Will STILL didn't get laid. God help that poor man. Blue balls the size of grapefruits.
David Baldacci has again delivered a great read.
I was so fortunate to receive an advance reader's copy through Goodreads giveaway.I have read and enjoyed the other novels in the Will Robie series but felt this one gave the clearest insight into Robie's character.
In many respects, it seems that finding a killer to be an honorable individual you could admire is counter intuitive.
But Will Robie is indeed a admirable man.There is action and twists galore.
He is one of my favorite authors and I do not hesitate to recommend this novel to anyone who enjoys the thriller genre.
Another 5 star novel in the Will Robbie series. Best to start at #1 if you have read any yet!
In the latest novel in the Will Robie series, Baldacci takes an interesting approach with the cold-hearted assassin.
Using Robie in a more investigative manner also plays out well, which gives him dimension and opens doors for future novels, should Baldacci wish to explore them.
There is also much backstory delivered in this novel, as the reader is able to better understand how Robie got involved in a life as far away from Mississippi as possible, as well as the parallels his life followed when compared to his father.
Strings of stories that made no sense that he pulls together at the very end into a simply horrific overdone ending.
To make a thriller you have to highlight some of the world's proclivities but he felt compelled to use multiple awful things and I think it was unnecessary (such as the serial killer angle--this served NO purpose whatsoever).
I think Baldacci has officially jumped the shark for me like Patricia Cornwell did years ago; I wasn't sure about it after Memory Man which was positively awful but this comes close.
Wow... this just didn't seem like a David Baldacci novel. Nor did it seem like a Will Robie series. It really just missed the mark. Bummer. I hope he'll write more in the series and back to the magic of Will Robie the expert.
Then Blueman informs him that Will's father has been arrested for murder and Will returns to Cantrell, MS to clear his thoughts and see what's going on with his father and try to rectify his relationship with his dad.The case against Dan Robie is flimsy but there are extenuating circumstances that places him at the scene of the crime.
For this to be a small town of 2,000 or more and everybody knows everyone's business, there has been so much killing that the real killer comes as a surprise to all.
A typical thrilling encounter that will keep you guessing as to whose the killer may be.
This author is in my top 5 of favorite authors in this genre.
I have enjoyed most of his books, especially this series.
I liked the humor in this one.
It had me laughing out loud, which is frowned upon when I'm at work, but I couldn't help it.
I also liked the dialogue in this one.
The author does that well, as well as so many other things, like a great plot.
This had some great twists.
I thought I had it all worked out, but there was an extra layer I had not anticipated, which was great.
Actually more like a 3.5*, but Baldacci is Baldacci. So rounding up. Cause that man sure can write...Will Robie goes back to his hometown, confronting his past and his father who has been accused of murder.It was the twist ending, which I didn't see coming, but sort of had suspicions from the beginning, that made me squirm a little bit. A little bit of stretching my believe that the murderer had gone through so much trouble to make a point.Oh well, on to the next book in the series.
The ease of the dialogue was enticing until I noticed all the characters spoke in the same fashion, with exception of the stereotypes. Many of the conversations are without plot or character meaning. Trying to twist and turn the plot, the author made the last quarter hard to read.
Starts off well; ends on a low note. Too many abusive subplots. Look forward to the return of the real Will Robie.
Another gem by David Baldacci! This one really stuck with me, even after I finished reading. Highly recommend! My Rating: 5 stars
I can't believe this book was written by David Baldacci. I have long been an admirer of his work and have enjoyed his books. This one was way below his usual level of writing....this one seemed like a book written because he needed quick money. By the time I was halfway through the book, I wanted to kill all the characters myself! Just put them out of their misery......
About on par with a Scooby Doo mystery. I figured out the killer by page 50 and am ashamed to admit I finished the book. The plot was beyond ridiculous. The first three in the series were at least fast paced, entertaining reads. This was garbage start to finish.
সিআইএ-অযাসাসিন উইল রোবি জানে না সে কযানটরেল, মিসিসিপিতে আসলে কী করছে । ওর বাবা খুনের দায়ে গরেফতার হয়েছেন । তবে যে অতীতের সাথে গত ২২ বছর রোবির কোন যোগাযোগ ছিল না, তাতে তার তেমন কিছু যায়ও আসে না । কিনতু সরবশেষ মিশনে সে ভুল করে এক শিশুকে হতযা করে ফেলেছে, আর তারপর থেকেই তার ভেতরকার যাবতীয় অমীমাংসিত দবিধাদবনদবগুলো থেকে সে মুকত হতে পারছে না । তাই না চাইতেও সে নিজেকে আবিষকার করে তার ভুলে যাওয়া অতীতের মানসপট থেকে উঠে আসা গরামের বাড়িতে, ভয়ানক জটিল ও কুটিল এক জোড়া খুনের রহসযের জালে জড়িয়ে যেতে, যেখানের পরি

This series just keeps getting better and better. 'The Guilty' takes both the plot as well as Will Robie into uncharted territory. The pacing is excellent, the atmosphere great and as always every character is memorable. The ending was predictable though but that does not take away anything from the overall experience though. The closest parallel I can find for this book is True Detective season 1. Yup, you heard that right.Great book and I had a blast reading it.If you liked this review, you can find more on my goodreads profile as well as my blog Digital Amrit
Top 50 Books of 2015 Best Audiobook (tie), Best of the Will Robie Series , Best Double-Twist Climax.Award-winning David Baldacci returns following Memory Man, with his second winner of 2015.
Fans of John Grisham and Greg Iles  will enjoy visiting the southern state of Mississippi, with small-town politics, conspiracies, racism, murder, and an unjust legal system.
His father, Dan Robie,  has been arrested and charged with murder.
What he does not count on is a scheme much bigger and dangerous, than he ever expected in the small southern town.While trying to save this father, Robie has to face his own past.
Horrendous- boring. Love Reel/Robbie books but don't know how the same person who wrote the Hit and the Target wrote this. Extremely disappointing.
