https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23931.Nova_Express
Now, I'm not even REALLY comparing the Nova Trilogy to Finnegans Wake.
Many of the novels in the Nova3 were REVISED and some revised again, so knowing what version of the cut-up novel is part of the Nova3 becomes, within the overall word horde, a bit dicey.
I'm not sure multiple versions of the novels, and the swirling versions of the trilogy were ever INTENDED to not confuse; Burroughs WAS ever and mutliple always breaking and rebuilding forms.
So, the idea of a living, breathing Nova3 is part of the whole word horde experiment.
But still, together, these three novels are hard to shake off.
Sort of the ultimate Libertarian cranky novel (with huge experimental overtures), Burroughs is at the very least a great American Humorist in the Mark Twain category or at the very least a hard-boiled Jonathan Swift. Nevertheless you either like the 'voice' or you don't. As a younger man he was 'it' or the cat's milk, but now that I am older (and not wiser by any means) I prefer PG Wodehouse. But I will never forget my youthful appreciations for this very dark Gentleman.
Burroughs is a great writer; but the cut-up method is rather hit and miss. There were a few pages where the cut-ups were brilliant, but mostly it felt like a slap in the face. It was as if the cut-ups appeared whenever you were enjoying the book too much to say "I see you're enjoying this paragraph a bit too much. How about we mix things up a bit and put your mind to work for a bit."I still think the cut-up method is rather ingenious; I just didn't like it in the context of a narrative novel.
This novel has fewer cut-up sentences which are hard to follow as we read the text linearly.
Some of the information contained herein features in other Burroughs novels too, like the 'Clom Fliday' (slightly un-PC) joke.
If you can only afford to buy one Burroughs book from the cut-up period, then this is easily the one.There is also another slightly hard-to-find publication called The Electronic Revolution - it's a very short text but I think Burroughs delivers his main ideas in this gem both succinctly and clearly.

Think of shit like Prozac, Botox, "focus groups", therapy culture, nuclear radiation, beaurocratic paranoia, "disaster capitalism", corporate hegemony, consumerism and all that abstract mind-waste which clogs up any decent human being's brainpan.Language is the key- buzzwords, catchphrases, politcal obfuscation, totalitarian prose....therefore Burroughs has this intriguing yet ultimately self-defeating need to "rub out the Word" and therefore his prose has to be jarring, shocking, cacophanous, surreal.
He's crystal clear when he wants to be: his ear for voice is tops, as his the nightmarish lucidity of the horrors he describes.He uses quite a bit of arcane references which are sort of hit and miss but when they hit cha....boy, it's right between the eyes.
I have viewed and the Nova Trilogy as a self contained entity and rated it as a piece of conceptual art and an occult operation. Certainly it is not the ideal place to begin an exploration of the work of William S. Burroughs. " Of language and writing, considered as magical operations, evocatory magic."Intimate Journal. Charles Baudelaire.
UNREADABLE.
The kind of experience where you have only four pages left to read and every three sentences you turn to the last page and think to yourself: „Damn, STILL four pages left!“Now two of the things I liked about NAKED LUNCH was that my imagination was switched on right away and the kind of pictures it produced.
NOVA EXPRESS was just words, kinda like reading a telephone book.
If so, NOVA EXPRESS is a great piece of art.
It's a bloody pulp mess, but it's also an entertaining bloody pulp mess for the most part.
Con pazienza ed attenzione tra le frasi sconnesse ed i pensieri spezzati si riesce a ricostruire l'intrico della trama di questo romanzo.
La trama che si riesce a delinare è quella sopra descritta, sommariamente: la lotta a più livelli tra la Nova Mob, i parassiti alieni, e la Polizia Nova.
La loro è una lotta all'ultima parola, che vede il linguaggio come la più invasiva forma di controllo dell'essere umano.
La guerra viene vinta dagli umani, i parassiti alieni processati, l'umanità è finalmente libera del giogo del linguaggio-virus: tra i caduti vi è la letteratura stessa.
A good portion of the trilogy is how-to effect the techniques of Burroughs himself as writer in order to rewrite the script of history and future.
In many ways, Burroughs says, we are tape-recorders, recording input and giving forth output.
The splicing effect that would occur would create new realities on the recordings.
The cut-ups don't really bother me now.
I obviously recognized the cut-ups from previous sections so that new phrases evoke memories.
Burroughs himself said that cut-ups are closer to actual experience than so called linear narrative.
I can see myself writing something closer to this, but I have yet to experiment with cut-ups.
The thing I like about the books in the "Nova Express" trilogy are the wacky voices.
"Nova Express" begins with a statement from Inspector Lee, whose job is to disrupt the work of the Venusians (inhabitants of the planet) conspiring to cause a Nova event (their work is called a Nova Conspiracy) on places like Earth.It is the voice of a crazy who is paranoid, who believes he can see directives all around him on public signs, everywhere.
Burroughs sounds like the person who wrote those flyers.
After reading and trying to dissect the narrative (or lack thereof) of "Naked Lunch", this book was much more clear, more readable..
The style of the text is reminiscent of all the great American voices of literature, but perverse and often parodied of itself, and of course, it excretes the true creative spirit of creation; not one of inertia and polemic discourse..
) It's with each character we see the rudiments of an exterior force, endlessly ruminating and ruthless with its portrayal of the petty person, the outcasts who refuse to assimilate even with those they're meant to be with.If you find yourself w/ difficulty when reading Burroughs..
Saying that this is the most comprehensible of the Nova books isn't saying much.
Like all of Burrough's cut and paste drug poetry prose, any reader will find themselves scratching their head and wondering at times why they bother.
But Nova Express is the first book in the trilogy to really embrace science fiction as the Nova Police finally emerge from the shadows and their operations are exposed.
I hate to say it, being such a purist, but I really do feel casual readers would be best off skipping the first two novels and getting a satisfactory shot in the veins from 'Nova Express' alone.
you probably already have your own opinion on burroughs and i doubt i need to go to any great length here. i hadn't read this for a long time but found a first edition in a suitcase full of 60's porn at an estate sale the other day. i'd forgotten how much i like all the cutups in this one and how funny it is. i used to write graffiti with phrases from this book.
One cannot underestimate the impact of this book on the second half of the 20th century. forget "Junkey" and "Naked Lounch", this is Burroughs at his finest. it is pure heavy metal layered on industrial techno, grunge and punk steamed to perfection.
a bright chemical flash explosion / across the screens of the controllers/arm up and uravel the systems of control/reprogramming yourself for outerspace
As other reviews have noted, it's hard to review this book in a meaningful way.
But perhaps it isn't about enjoyment.This is one of those books that I bought years and years ago and should have read when I bought it.
Burroughs paints a very bleak, tawdry, nihilistic picture of humanity, which can be engrossing but also alienating to the reader.For me, it was best to experience this as a book of poetry.
It's even better to imagine it read in Burroughs's own voice.
BurroughsBurroughs really extracts every last mile from the cut-up technique here.
An exceptionally disjointed, weird amalgam of Burroughs's obsessions, "assembled" using his cut-up and/or fold-in method, except the parts that aren't, which who knows which are which, ostensibly in the service of creating a space adventure for teenage boys, or so Burroughs described it before actually writing it.
What he actually came up with is not easy to describe or understand outside of a general vibe.
Which vibe seemed to me less clear and interesting than that of The Soft Machine, for example.
Still and all, no one writes like Burroughs, no one is loopy in the way he is, and somehow it all feels worth reading just to get a peek into the universe he lived in.
um .. this isn't gonna be MUCH of a review, & fairly brief. I jus wanna denote that after having read the Nova Trilogy I cuddn't ignore how glaringly misogynist & DATEDLY-misogynous it is. the FEW woman are props, & sometimes dismissed with the de rigueur "bitch .. " ('Hamburger' Mary; meaning vaj, et al). also: narrative Projection PRESUMES the reader to be male & caters to 'him;' whom ELSE wud be READING THIS?!.. oi. intergalactic viral war, invasion & mutation is tuff enuf; but the women got screwed on dis one
By far the most straightforward/comprehensible of the series.Unfortunately also the most pg13, with comparatively little sex and drugs, which is where Burroughs's writing tends to be most poetic and visceral.Nevertheless, it's a witty and enjoyable strange trip he takes you on.The introduction and notes on the 'restored text' version are extremely enlightening and make me wish I'd found the other two Nova books in that edition.
I picked this up for free and hadn't realized it was book 3 of a trilogy. I've done that for other series and been mildly confused, while it rendered this book completely unreadable. Not sure it's worth trying from the beginning.
It's an explosive book; visionary at its time and relevant today.
it starts out well, like the cut-up trilogy books.
like all the cut-up books.
if you're going to read a cut-up book, i'd recommend The Soft Machine as the most successful, though i suppose Nova Express was best received.
the most important part of reading this trilogy for me was to get me a better perspective on Naked Lunch.
It may be pure selfishness on my part, but I want the story straight, like Junky and Naked Lunch, with all that obliterating passion and spiteful truth.
I don't want that wisdom, unobtainable elsewhere, cut up into pieces, so that Chance might bring some faint revelation.
This one is the least sexual of the three due to the desire to publish the soon to be forthcoming (in 1962) "Naked Lunch" and ensure it did not have to go through the censorship board.
Burroughs masterfully utilizes both cut up (borrowed from Scientology!) and fold-in techniques that combine everything from newspaper stories to classic and beat novels and his own early and even soon to be published work (Junky, Queer, Yage Letters, and Naked Lunch).
As with all of Burroughs work, it is not for the feint of heart and can not simply be read from cover to cover as one can with your typical novel.
Aún cuando se supone que es "el más comprensible" de la trilogía que Burroughs escribió usando el método cut-up y el fold-in y le compro toda la onda que hay detrás de eso hay pasajes bastante crípticos debido al nivel de experimentación.
¿Traducíh los fragmentos con los que Burroughs trabajó y te queda un traducción literal tipo Google Translator?
¿O traducíh la idea que Burroughs armó con los pedazos de textos que ocupó y te queda algo como una interpretación de lo que el tío Bill estaba intentando hacer/decir?
Interesante las posibilidades formales que se dan con respecto a la traducción igual.
Billy, come on.
I was with you like a freaking lap dog with the Junkie with the Queer and with the Naked Lunch.
Now you lay this shit on me?
Come on.
Space police, nova mob, give me a freaking break.
William, you got lazy with the cut-up trilogy and don't be looking at your shoes and pretending that it was some kind of artistic experiment.
Basically you were smoking too much Moroccan hash in Paris and hanging out with Brion Gysin, looking into mirrors and all that bullshit...
That shit clouded your judgement....
"Nova Express" has been published as Science Fiction but it seems like it belongs in a category all its own: part drug vision, part formal experiment, part social criticism, part fantasy, etc..
When I 1st read these Burroughs novels, I was thrilled by the way they mutated in & out of such categories.
Burroughs seemes to've felt no need to try to tame his writing into any particular market niche & that's one of its many strong points.
"Nova Express" is yet-another exploding ticket to a wild ride thru universes of naked lunches that's been an initiation for many a soft machine wild boy.
I’m a big fan of Burroughs, even if I can’t always tell what he’s talking about.
His quirky writing style and his unusual approach to plot and narrative make for a great read whichever book you pick up, but Nova Express was one of the more pleasurable ones – I pretty much whizzed through it, which is rare for a book that you have to concentrate on.Expect to see all sorts of crazy stuff, like orgone accumulators, weird space shit and unusual approaches to recording and reworking audio to affect real change in the physical world.
If it’s a little difficult to understand what I’m talking about in the review, then just wait until you read the book.
But you should read it – it’s awesome, a lot of fun, and a breeze to get through.
