https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78466.The_Collected_Writings_Of_Ambrose_Bierce
My next recommendation would be to read the stories in the section called “In The Midst Of Life; Tales Of Soldiers And Civilians,” which is sure to strike an occasional chord or two with the reader.
Overall, one will not find another story in this collection better than this particular one here, nor in any other book written by Ambrose [or quite possibly by any other writer of this time].
This one story in particular that I mention is an absolute work of clever absurdity that even for those that love and respect their elders will find themselves laughing despite themselves.
Do you ever start reading a book, then suddenly started hearing quotes from it all over the place, then realised that you must have been glossing over the author and the book your whole life? Well, it turns out that Ambrose Bierce is one of those authors, even though he was writing in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. If you're in a rush, just read The Devil's Dictionary, as it is both the funniest and the most-quoted of his works.
Bierce's one-paragraph fables are quite amazing.
This was on my grandma's book shelf so I read it when I was about 10 and the stories traumatized me for life. Need to read again.
I love Ambrose Bierce. Not for most readers, Bierce has a dark side to rival Poe.
The Collected Writings Of Ambrose Bierce.Started reading this 810 page tome way way back circa 2009.
I always am drawn to the thickest book on the shelves in the stores or on the second hand stalls whenever I come across them.
Never having heard of Ambrose Bierce I didn't know what to expect.
I found it hard going and didn't have the mindset at the time to finish this book.
Found it again recently during a clear out and I have decided to give it another try, taking it story by story until I finish.
This book by Bierce I got to know as a student of American studies in Tübingen in the mid 70s.
Because it fascinated me, I chose it for my master's thesis.
In selecting for Good Reads I found on page 245 an index card with the following notes: 11 short stories p.
225-402 - 1 On A Mountain (Alleghany, 1861, Ohio border, brigade), 2 What I Saw of Shiloh (1862, Tennessee R., Pittsburg Landing), 3 A little of Chickamanga (Gen. Hazen - Bragg + Time, 1898 - B.
A. Bierce Coll.
Works, VI Ashes of the Beacon, 1-6 also in A.B. Ambrose Bierce's Civil War, edited by William Mc Cann, Chicago 1956 ...
I won't lie to you - this is a long book.Ambrose Bierce shares my birthday, misanthropy and was also the youngest child...so I immediately felt a kinship with the man.
I loved the Devil's Dictionary.
It was shocking that most of it is still applicable today.He is much, much more than An Occurance at Owl Creek - and the overall cynicism and hatred of humanity is infused in clever wit and interesting views...lots of patricide (which, I'm not one to get behind, but whatever floats your boat).
But definitely worth a read if you're really a fan OR if you want to read more about him and his stories.
(Or you're a college kid)
10/17/10: "The Suitable Surroundings" (1891)10/21/10: "The Death of Halpin Frayser" (1893) (Unsolved)10/23/10: "The Middle Toe of the Right Foot" (1891)10/25/10: "The Damned Thing" (1894)10/26/10: "Haita the Shepherd" (1891)10/26/10: "An Inhabitant of Carcosa" (1887)(First read 12/19/07)
Where's my copy now that I want to reread it? DAMN.
The bible of the great Bierce containing a marvelous cross section of his talent.
Some of the stories became redundant. While the dictionary is impressive and witty, I find it difficult to read through without my mind wandering. The Monk and the Hangman's Daughter was excellent.
Wish he'd written more ghost stories. The infamous goat scene is never far from my thoughts.
Iconic American writing. Imaginative and often provocative. Well worth the read.
