https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760941.When_Rabbit_Howls
Though it is certainly fashionable to doubt the very existence of DID today, those who do so seem to be reacting more to the possibility of Truddi Chase's harrowing upbringing rather than what it caused psychologically.
Since I am married to a multiple myself, I can assure any doubters that stories like Chase's happen all the time.
Such damage may well be happening to someone right this minute.
To dismiss such stories out of hand doesn't do much to help attract those with DID to the help they need.
Who wants to seek help for something they are told does not exist?
So, Truddi Chase survives a horrific childhood.
She develops 92 personalities as a way of dealing with both the terrible things that happens to her and the subsequent memories that they leave behind-- each personality is responsible for a different set of memories, so the whole thing doesn't have to hurt or overwhelm her at once.
The person known as "Truddi" is basically an empty shell that the personalities use to make themselves known.It's also a true story.I couldn't stop reading it.
My right eye is all bloodshot as a result.The only drawback is that now I think everybody has a multiple personality disorder, myself included.
Dissociative Identity Disorder in women is not infrequently the end result of sexual abuse at a very young age.
It is a difficult book to read, with lots of triggers for survivors of sexual abuse at any age, male or female.
I'm glad she wrote it, glad I read it, and I give it to women I know who were sexually abused children.
Roughly speaking statistically, one in three.The longer I live, the more I see Dissociation as an incredibly useful defensive skill for young children (Or anyone) put in horrendous situations.
I find that Meditation and self-hypnosis have helped me a great dea in learning to control dissociation.
As a clinical psychology student, I found the introduction far more valuable than the content of the book, for in the introduction the therapist revealed enough of his methods to discredit every single word that was written by the patient herself.
The author of this book is one of those people.
I first read this book when it was originally out, after seeing Chase on Oprah.
A turnkey event in my healing, I was deeply impressed not only by Chase's courage to have survived such a childhood, but to have written about it to help others.
That said, the book is very difficult to read, as it's written in a variety of voices and styles.
I do not advocate that anyone in crisis read this book.
Chase holds nothing back, within the parameters of her memory, regarding survivor guilt toward her siblings, confusion and dissociation from sex as an adult, grieving her lost childhood, and the tribulations of therapy as an adult.
On the one hand, multiple personality is an unusual topic, to say the least, and even stranger than Sybil, this book was written by the personalities themselves--the "Troops for Truddi Chase" as they call themselves.
For some reason, though, I didn't want to look up Truddi Chase until after I finished the book.
I guess I needed to come to terms with the story on my own, which was difficult, because it really read like a science-fiction novel, just like Dr. Phillips warns in the intro.
And I did look up Truddi Chase after I finished.
When the story line became a little too weird (as in parts about reading minds and paranormal stuff) then that speculation kept running through my mind and I became a very cynical reader.I also found the book hard to read in places because of the way it was written (supposedly) from a first person narrative through the various people that Truddi became through her Multiple Personality Disorder.And my final criticism is that in some places it simply became repetitive and dull.Having said all that, if in fact this book is legitimate and real, it tells of a fascinating phenomenon and explores the world of MPD in a unique manner.
It was so difficult to experience it as the reader that it took me 4 tries and almost 6 years to get through it.It is not the writing that is difficult to read it is witnessing, even through the written word, the experience of the writer.It is a book that will always have a place of honor on my bookshelves because it is a book of true heroism and filled with hope.Reading this book brought me to understand how the mind works to help the body to survive, no matter the trauma or challenge being experienced.
This book is damned disturbing.
I honestly don't know what to think about it.
I saw the "author" on Oprah, and I still don't know if I believe it or not.
I have a degree in psychology, and multiple personalities/abnormal psych have always been a particular area of interest to me but this....I really don't know if I can believe it or not....If it's true, then it's definitely one of the most harrowing and disturbing stories I have ever read, and if it's not, it's some damned convincing writing.
One way or another, horrific childhood sexual abuse occurs through the whole thing, not for the squeamish.....
Do I believe in hundreds of distinct multiple personalities existing within one person?
Nope, though I do believe in dissociative identity disorder's.
Do I believe she had/has a total break with reality due to childhood trauma?
Yes. Do I believe she burns out lightbulbs with the extra electricity generated by the complexity of her mind crammed so full of personalities fighting one another for dominance?
Nope.
Do I believe her stepfather sexually abused her and it was annoying of her to make the reader wade through 400 pages to then blame all her problems on that?
Not a fun read, but very interesting, particularly if you are interested in psychology. I actually didn't finish the last 3rd of the book in detail, kind of skimmed through it. It was very graphic in parts, which was hard to get through. I think what held me back from really liking it was that it is supposedly true, but the inner skeptic in me kept wondering if it was all true, how the author was able to pen this book "through" her other personalities in the manner she did. Multiple personality disorder/DID sure is a fascinating thing though.
At the very least, I should hope all readers take away from this book a sense of hope and maybe even a sense of guilt for ever having felt like their life was tough.
I am amazed this woman is still alive, though the book indicates that the true, 'first born' self is dead due to horrors she could not cope with and never returned from.
The story is already so over the top shocking that I doubt the reader needed more to seal the deal and buy into what is happening.When Rabbit Howls is extremly interesting.
There are some experiences that a person cannot face having lived through, the mind breaks, shatters, hides bits to protect itself and even changes facts.
Only one new all, and it was his job to protect the rest from the deepest part of the cave.Truddi, however, only knew enough to recognize missing time, blackouts.
The tale is written by many of the personalities, and with the help of other personalities.
Nearly all of them are given a voice, and in the process the full story is uncovered.With her doctor's support, Truddi chose to share the tale.
Sometimes, our minds can't even begin to comprehend what is happening, and so to protect ourselves, a darker place is created where we can hide.
Think about recent news: Young kids being raped at 11, 12 by couches and clergymen; how most never told a soul because they were so destroyed inside from guilt.
Truddi Chase was two…a toddler…and when most toddlers her age were still learning to walk and talk, she was being repeatedly raped…and the abuse didn’t end until she was 16.
Yeah, I think it’s very possible to leave your mind, as I believe happened with Truddi Chase.
If you're at all interested in psychology and the potential of the human psyche to both splinter and protect itself, then you should read this book.
It's both dark and fascinating, especially if you've had any interest in child psychology or human nature, like I have...
Previously known as multiple personality disorder, Dissassociative Identity Disorder is the topic of much speculation and glamorization through the movies and other avenues, but is quite compelling when you look at the actual case studies.
Even now we don't know much about DID, and it's still being studied - Truddi Chase's story came about long before psychologists knew as much as they do now, and I think her story is pretty important.
If you want to take a hard, disturbing and frightening look at what sexual abuse in such awful forms can do to a child then this is the book you must read.
I caution young people reading this because it is pretty awful.I was horrified at what I learned this poor little girl suffered but she endured with the mental scars to prove it.
People scoff at multiple personality disorder but it is real.
This is a very creative way to survive multiple traumas endured at an early age.Truddi Chase passed away two years ago.
She left behind a story I will never ever forget.
I can not imagine one parent being this abusive let a lone two....What a sad sad story.A must read.
Well that was interesting and does give insight into DID and abuse. But I felt like a was trying too wade through it by the middle of the book.
i read Sybil long ago and i loved the book (well…."loved" is not an appropriate adjective here, but i'm sure you get my meaning) and i thought the movie was incredible as well.
i had an incredibly hard time believing in descriptions about how the lights would flicker when different personalities would show themselves, or how the tapes the psychiatrist would take during sessions would someone inexplicably become staticky when one of the "troops" were present.
i gave the book 2 stars because nevertheless, i feel for an abused child no matter whether the story being told is true or fiction, but my bullshit meter went off so many times while reading this that i just couldn't completely believe.
A more modern take on the "Sybil" acount of Multiple Personality Disorder. This book moves more quickly and is a bit more graphic than "Sybil" as it was written more recently. Although, it may not make you a firm believer in the disorder it will certainly make you think twice before doubting the possibility that it does exist.
Endlich ein Buch über dissoziative Identitätsstörung, das von einer betroffenen Person bzw. ihren mehreren Persönlichkeiten geschrieben wurde. Es schockiert, rüttelt auf und zeigt schonungslos, wie die menschliche Psyche durch sexuellen Kindesmissbrauch zerstört werden kann. Es ist keine leichte Lektüre, aber authentischer als wohl jedes andere Buch, das sich diesem Thema widmet.
This is a fabulous book that offers an intruiging look into the mind of a multiple personality. Parts are incredibly disturbing as she discribes some of the horrible events in her childhood that have caused her mind to shatter into seperate personalities in order to cope.
Feel like I slept my way through that book. Small parts made sense and were touching but the majority of it was disjointed and were unbelievable. Overall a complete waste of intellectual time.
What a heartrending story. It frightens me to know there are deviants out there like this.
So good. Totally and completely fucked up, but good.
Dem Buch kann man (meiner Meinung mach) nichts anderes als 5 Sterne geben, da es von der erschütternden Wahrheit der Erfahrung sexuellen (Inzest), psychischen und körperlichen Missbrauchs einer bzw. 92 Menschen/Identitäten erzählt und dem Weg der Therapie, in der dieses Buch (Manuskript) entstanden ist.
True story of Truddi Chase, a victim of abuse as a child causing split personalities.I had been fascinated by Sybil years ago, reading that book two or three times. AfterI saw Truddi Chase on a television show I read the book. This was a harder book to read. Sybil was fascinating, but after reading When Rabbit Howls, I decided to put away my fascination with multiple personalities.
Troops are the multiple personalities that protect Truddi Chase.
As the child is abused by her parents repeatedly, her mind scrambles to save her and creates a world of her own.
You come away feeling the hurt and pain that abuse creates in a soul.
This is a book that everyone must read to understand the uniqueness of every mind one encounters in this world of ours.
Even if their world is unlike ours, there is an underlying mechanism, a process of the mind that I feel is common to one and all.

first of all, ESP doesn't exist, and neither do "spirits", so claiming to communicate with esp and to spirits disqualifies the book from the nonfiction category.secondly, the author claims to have felt similar to "Sybil", a well known case of "multiple personality" that has been thoroughly debunked.
similarity to a fictional story doesn't make your story more true.third, I do not believe a petite woman who was "skin and bones" (her description) held down a grown man and administered parasite larvae.
fourthly, she describes her alternative personalities as existing simultaneously outside her body.
