https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219107.The_Book_of_Skulls
Silverberg’s traveling companions represent a good cross section of our society: Timothy, a young blue blood from an Eastern family; Oliver, an orphaned Midwestern athlete scholar; Eli, a stereotypical Jewish student and Ned, a very conflicted Boston Catholic homosexual poet.Eli has discovered an ancient manuscript, The Book of Skulls, in which a group of four, The Receptacle, can present themselves to the Keepers of the Skulls and two may be initiated into rites that would give them immortality.
i was absorbed by Book of Skulls' depiction of how social inclusion & exclusion, ability to dominate, class background, and various other differences all cause the characters to continually shift allegiances.
unfortunately, near the end, much of the metaphysical stuff started to sorta bore me, like the last 2 or 3 hours of an acid trip.the characters felt both on-target much of the time and, at other times, oddly alien - too sharply differentiated from each other, if that makes sense.
except for the studly rich guy - what an asshole.
Robert Silverberg is possibly the most underrated sf writers of all time, considering that he has been writing sf since the 50s, won numerous Hugo, Nebula and other major sf awards, and is a Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America Grand Master.
Silverberg wrote this book during 1970 when written science fiction was being shaken up by the "new wave" of authors who were experimenting with new writing techniques, structures and often controversial contents (epitomized by the legendary Dangerous Visions anthology edited by Harlan Ellison).
It's incidental, but intricately linked to what the narrator is focused on within his own mind, always swirling closer and closer and closer and never quite being able to free himself through all the meditations and weird secret-society explorations because of it.It can get a bit trippy, well beyond the sexuality aspects.
Very '70's writing, with main focus on enlightenment and free love and using drugs to open their minds, but more than that, this is a very deep exploration of the mind and motives and reactions to so many conflicting desires.
THE BOOK OF SKULLS is one of the best horror books I've ever read. Mostly because it's a psychological character study of a group of young men on a "spiritual" quest, that takes them on a journey to the SW United States. Here, they are to learn the secrets of a strange cult. But what do they really know about what they're getting into? And more importantly, how well do they really know each other? This novel is a bit of an unknown gem.
But it's one thing to admit a writer into your personal canon and and quite another to be reminded, knee to the groin, uppercut to the jaw, nose leaking blood, head pinned down in the sand and grit that here, make no mistakes, is the real thing - a champion brawler, and he's not pulling his punches.The Book Of Skulls is a yarn about four young men on a quest for immortality.
I liked the idea behind this, and I even liked the way Silverberg set up the four characters, stereotypes that over the course of the novel are pried open and exposed for the often hypocritical things they are.
I know this isn't exactly a new book, and doubtless Silverberg knew he was using stereotypes and that real gay people come from all over the spectrum, but it's still pretty ghastly to read.I can see why people enjoy it, I think, but euch, not for me.
But it never opened up to me that far...or maybe I just never got so involved.I go 3 stars here but I'm bound to say it was a close thing I considered 2.
It requires a pilgrimage to the House of Skulls (the secret of the location is revealed through the reading of The Book of Skulls which is what the manuscript was).
(Again all these revealed in the Book of Skulls).
Then among these 4 people 2 must die while the other 2 receive the secret of life.
As noted it's interesting but I just never got involved.
I don't think I'm spoiling anybody's fun by revealing that the boys DO ultimately discover the desert sect in Phoenix, and that is when the horrors really begin....Silverberg's novel was apparently a great technical challenge for the author because it is presented via four first-person narrators.
As sci-fi author Stephen Baxter tells us in that Jones & Newman volume, it "is an extended meditation on the ultimate horror, the inevitability of personal death in an immense and ancient universe." Many sections are supremely well-written, bravura exemplars of the writing craft, including Eli's lengthy put-down of modern-day religion, and Eli's detailed plans regarding how he will spend his first few hundred years of immortality.
Different then what I imagined, not really being a SF book. This is more a story about a philosophical and spiritual journey. Nevertheless, quite enjoyed it. Interesting, and though predictable at nature, I still found myself engulfed by the end.
This is a book I have been meaning to read for some time but you know things kept on getting in the way (like other books) so now I have finally been encouraged to read it and here we are.The book itself is part of the SF masterworks series - an excellent series I am so glad to see they have decided to start issues new editions of.
But what I will say is that the story does shift between various points of view - now this is not a bad thing as thankfully we are not made to sit through the same events or scenes from four different perspectives but what it does mean is you get to see events coloured by the characters describing them.
No suspenseful up-building, the shifting narration doesn't make any sense in the end (plus I never cared much for the gimmick of telling stories from different views but here it adds zero cleverness to the presentation of the characters), even though this is a short one it felt dragged.The characters are stereotypes, almost caricatures of themselves, who wallow way to deep in each ones fantasies and never surprised me or managed to create real interest.
And when the plot is not simply boring and filled with unimportant details it is quite pornographic, sexist and racist; I am not a strong feminist and not offended easily by books but the presentation of women and sex in this story really annoyed me.
Robert Silverberg can flat out write a great story.
This story follows four college friends from vastly different backgrounds traveling to Arizona in search of a ancient monastery that they believe holds the secret to eternal life.
In addition, to learning about how the group learned of the Book of Skulls, the story switches viewpoints among the four main characters and we learn who they are, why they are here and what they hope to gain from their journey.
This is truly a psychological and spiritual journey masquerading as science fiction.
My favorite Silverberg novel...and that is saying a lot.
Silverberg is one of the finest writers to come out of science fiction and fantasy.
The Book of Skulls is both one of his straighter fiction tales and, at the same time, the most esoteric.
The plot concerns four college students on a journey to find a hidden monastery in Arizona.
(There's more of those in Arizona than you would think!) They are motivated by a promise of immortality.
It is unfortunate that this book is so hard to find but it is definitely worth seeking out.
The catch is, according to the terms of immortality, only two of the group can live forever - the other two have to die: one must commit suicide and the other must be murdered.
The first half of the book describes their old-fashioned American road trip to get there.
That being said, I thought that the second half of the book was simply brilliant.
That portion describes the psychology behind trying to fulfill the aforementioned terms of a crazy cult that may or may not even be real.
The reader is invited along to experience the day-by-day happenings of their life-changing exploits, while at the same time we are constantly reminded of the smallness and brevity of a trip conveniently scheduled during a university's spring closing.
Whatever tolerance our characters did exhibit was subverted by Silverberg with his insistence on showing that those accommodations were themselves prompted by spite, personal uncertainty, and concern for reputation.
A perverse delight pervaded the telling, where everyone despised his origins and identity, and we readers were supposed to savor their inner turmoil.
I could never make this final step demanded by Silverberg.
Stylistically, this is one of the best Hugo-nominated books I've encountered.
Robert Silverberg is one of the most 70s of sci-fi writers, I think.
Here, via four college students on a road trip into immortality.
Despite oscillating contradictorily between feeling that the characters were too archetypal and being impressed with their nuances, this was ultimately somehow really compelling to me.
And those characters really carry it in the end, since the whole story is told via their four alternating viewpoints.
I think the tension between well-developed and oversimplified traits mostly come from the four narrators themselves, as they tend to try to define eachother in terms of stereotypes, then defy those traits themselves.
Silverberg is a good SF author, and though not one of my faves, I've enjoyed his work very much.
But not this book.I don't know, maybe wasn't in the mood, but I found that the internal Odyssey of the four characters just didn't touch me.
Silverberg spent page after page desvribing past experiences and thoughts that have no real interest and are mundane to say the least, and in effect out of the 300+ pages of the book only about 70-80 advance the plot.
The ending also falls very, very flat.Oh, just a note: Though Silverberg is a Sci-Fi author, this is not a SF book, even if it's classified as one.
That's a hell of a scenario to play out and spend a whole novel entertaining, and Silverberg gets enough mileage out of it to make an infinite number of trips from Massachusetts to Arizona.Before they're even out of Manhattan, the boys are all making their case for what the outcome is going to be -- if the claim/offer doesn't turn out to be bunk.
I have done this several times; have even tried it with both people who have and haven't read the book making the selections, and it didn't matter which of those my reader of the moment was; I could always tell.****So this is a very different enjoyment from that I gained from watching the antics and machinations of the Bastards In Space of Alastair Reynolds' Revelation Space novels.
Four roommates at an elite East Coast college (it's Yale) are on a quest across America for a monastery that holds the secret of immortality, guided by an ancient tome found in the library stacks.
Mystery Nine states that life must be paid for by death: two members of the group will live forever, one will commit suicide, one will be murdered.
Of the characters, Eli rings the trustest (his biography is close to Silverberg's), while Ned's frank homosexuality was bold and forthright for the period, but it hasn't held up very well (on the other hand, I wasn't there.
First of all, this is a thinking person's book.
In fact, the first half of the book is just four guys on a road trip, thinking to themselves and indulging in flashbacks.
Next, if you look past the fact that they are kind of just sitting around for most of the book, the characters really have a lot to say.
It can't easily be put into a genre (it's horror, sci-fi, travelogue, suspense...and yet it is definitely none of those things), and I think different people will get different things out of it.
The Book of Skulls aka Catcher in the Rye but with more annoying and much less likable protagonists.The Book of Skulls aka Demian but with less fulfillment.The Book of Skulls aka Zardoz in book form and not fun.The Book of Skulls aka the immortality just slightly more fun than the protagonist of "I Have No Mouth and I must Scream"
Serve solo a diffonderlo un po' in giro".Romanzo atipico di uno scrittore atipico: Robert Silverberg è uno scrittore di fantascienza, acclamato per la sua capacità di muoversi autonomamente tra i generi, i cui romanzi sono noti per l'approfondimento psicologico, che ha la priorità su tutti gli altri aspetti.Anche in questo romanzo è così: se gli elementi più fantastici (il Libro dei Teschi, il Ricettacolo, la promessa della vita eterna) fanno pensare a uno dei tanti romanzi di avventura, con uno scenario, fatto di canyon, templi antichissimi e reperti archeologici, in stile Indiana Jones, in realtà si tratta di un romanzo puramente introspettivo, privo di azione, scandito dalla narrazione in prima persona dei quattro protagonisti, uno per volta.
Eli - a Jewish intellectual and philology student who translated the book, sexually unattractive and unsuccessful with women, strongly believes in the myth.Ned - a Catholic homosexual, cynical and contradictory, also likes to 'dabble in ugly-girl heterosex' just for the experience, wants to be a writer, lusts after Oliver.Oliver - a wholesome farm boy from Kansas, works hard and plays hard, seemingly orthodox yet has hidden depths and ambiguities, obsessed with cheating death ('Death may have been good enough for Beethoven and Jesus and President Eisenhower, but, meaning no offense, I'm different').Timothy - a Wasp from a rich and storied family, finances the trip but believes that the Book of Skulls is 'melodramatic crap', superficially has the most to lose of the four.This is Silverberg at his most shamelessly non-PC.
by his own count he habitually wrote over a million words a year; often publishing five stories a month...
he published 23 novels between 1967 and 1972 alone, including many of his most famous ones (and multiple hugo/nebula/locus award nominees)...
yet when you read his work, it doesn't feel like it's just been tossed off; it feels like tight, fully conceived, fully fleshed-out material.
it's just that i never really quite get what he's after, what it's all about, why i'm reading it.
maybe it's my fault, i really don't know.
or maybe it was the times; you had to be there.
Seriously, how often do you read a book and think this is unlike any other book I've ever read...it NEVER happens. The Books of Skulls is fucking sensational and utterly unique, mysterious, brilliantly constructed and insanely well written. Yeah it absolutely has some issues, some dated jargon, especially it has an uncomfortable focus on homosexuality as something 'other', but although this is very much a book outta the 70's and reflects that, it also has the feel of something timeless, inspired in the deepest sense and massively entertaining.
Američki roman ceste s nekoliko finih ekspilicitnih sekvenci. Zastrašujuće je to kako je Silverberg razradio likove - doslovno do savršenstva. Iako mi je priča (mislim sama ideja Knjige lubanja) mršava ko Twiggy, dajem petaka zbog karakterizacije, te ogoljenosti ljudske psihe koja ide do beskraja. Čudno je to koliko zapravo stvari skrivamo od drugih, ali Silverberg to tako majstorski banalizira pa se pitamo jesu li normalne društveno nenormalne stvari? Odličan roman, kidam nalijevo!
Another 5-star masterwork of Robert Silverberg. Not really science fiction...more of a dark fantasy. An excellent character study with a startling conclusion. This story redefines "Spring Break". Strongly recommended.
I won't say they redeemed themselves to me in a GRRM kind of way, but you got to see a bit more about why they were all the douchebags that they were.When they arrived at the monastery, things got interesting, and there's a lot of good psychological stuff in there, and also a wonderful extended procedural for doing Shadow Work in most mystical traditions, one I might recommend future students to.
Not particularly science fiction or fantasy which it was billed to be, uninteresting and unsympathetic characters (some might say despicable and deplorable), mostly uninteresting plot and a wholly ambiguous conclusion.
