https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527523.Citizens
This isn't a retelling of the French Revolution from start to finish.
All in all, my troubles with the book mostly stemmed from my own unfamiliarity with the subject (I got especially bored with Schama taking potshots at other FR scholars).
His analysis and conclusions, that violence was the fulcrum of the Revolution, rather than an aspect of it, might not be readily accepted, especially since his account is so anecdotal, though I will reserve judgment until I read something else on the subject.

For one thing he scrupulously avoids any kind of schematization, any form of large structural overview, instead concentrating on what indeed he declares it to be in the title, a chronicle, a careful catalogue of events, without giving them ideological interpretation.
Naturally the process is that, a process, and there was a patchwork of measures and changes in political life that didn't always translate through to much difference in social structures.As other comments here have emphasised, this concentration on daily events and the mix of continuities and discontinuities makes this a demanding read, as the reader is not given any help in ordering these events into categories that might help in grasping their significance.
Elephant of the Bastille Arrogant and bloated style and in such detail that after a while one just wants to scream. 948 pages of it! Skimming through the really snoozy parts but after twenty hours of listening I have still over half to go.Seven months later: Loaded what was left of this into the mp3 so I could garden and walk and that worked better for me. Saying that though, I am glad to see the back of it!
Poor Louis XVI. He just wanted to make maps and hang out with sailors.
Dear Mr Schama, If you can't find the time to edit your own books then might I suggest hiring someone to edit them for you?
This is not necessarily bad. I just got lost in the maddening warrens of information/various characters. I may try and come back to this at some future date but I probably need to find a more straight forward history to give me better fundamental schooling on the French Revolution. It's quite complex and Schama doesn't really ground things with solid timelines and exposition imo. Probably a better read for those who already have some knowledge on the subject.
Schama does make his points, two of them being (1) that things weren't so bad and were getting better in 1789 and (2) the revolution was a bloody and unnecessary affair.
Still, it is quite fun to read and the points he makes are worthy of pursuit.A similar critique of the American Revolution could be made as well--and of the English, the Russian etc.
As regards the USA one could point to Canada or Australia, comparing their peaceful transitions to independence to our bloody one--but then what of "Common Sense" or "The Declaration of Independence"?
Schama goes on of course to discuss the Napoleonic Wars following the revolution, decrying them as well.
I wasted three months of my life (it normally takes me a week or two to read a nonfiction book) slogging through this nemesis of a tome and I wish I had that time back.
I thought if I stuck it out long enough, I could learn something about the French Revolution, which I sincerely wanted to do.
I have learned my lesson, and next time, I'll go for Wikipedia first.
The best use for this book is as a doorstop, or a way to get your kid to change their major from history to business.
Outstanding piece of narrative history that overturns many long held views on the origins and progress of the revolution.
In particular it shows how widespread change was already underway whilst the monarchy was still in charge and strips away a lot of the Marxist ideology that had informed so much of the historiography.
Schama is no reactionary and this book is an important corrective to a lot of previously unquestioned assumptions.
The book is outstandingly written with a wealth of anecdotal detail about politics, culture, society and the lives of those involved.
The outcome is a period of history that is both darker and more fascinating.
Schama presents events as being to a great extent driven by Paris and its population, and there were powerful counter-revolutionary movements elsewhere in the country, eg in the Vendee, that pulled and pushed the Revolution in different directions, a tension that was aggravated by the wars in which France concurrently found itself as other nations attacked it.Today’s popular perception that the Revolution was primarily about the common people vs the aristocracy is clearly a vast oversimplification, the nobility itself being a group that was already in profound transition from mainly a landed aristocracy to a wealthy nobility based on commerce and budding industry.
A detailed book on the French Revolution.
The best aspects of this book are when the author becomes personal – as when he is describing the lives of individuals – Talleyrand, Lafayette, the King and Queen, Mirabeau...
Starting with Part II there is a sequence and key aspects of the Revolution are well described, such as the seizure of the Bastille.
Today France could be considered one of the more secular societies in the developed countries.There is a lot of name-dropping – and I suspect many of these names are used only one or twice throughout the book.
Reading this book made me want to read more history -- or, at least, more history written by Mr. Schama.
I certainly didn't know that Ben Franklin was a fashionable superstar in France for a time, or that one of the causes of the Revolution was financial mismanagement.
I got a little weary after Louis and Marie Antoinette were executed, and there were times when I would've appreciated a brief glossary, or a chart illustrating the structure of the government.
But Schama isn't writing a textbook -- he's writing a pretty engaging take on a well-worn subject.http://www.newyorker.com/arts/critics....
I've always adored Simon Schama's storytelling. Is it melodramatic at times? Yes. Does he have his biases? Oh yes. Do I love it anyway? Absolutely.
From the New York Times review: "Mr. Schama is at his most powerful when denouncing the central truth of the Revolution: its dependence on organized (and disorganized) killing to attain political ends.
However virtuous were the principles of the revolutionaries, he reminds us that their power depended on intimidation: the spectacle of death.
Violence was no aberration, no unexpected skid off the highway of revolution: it was the Revolution - its motor and, for a while, its end." I hope the folks at the protests with the "liberty, equality, fraternity" signs understand that what they're saying isn't just a cool slogan.
This book is so undisciplined and dissatisfying. Cluttered. A chore to read.
Finally and the denouement to the whole nastiness of about ten years, why was there a lion locked up in the Bastille?The story of the French Revolution is told in a series of interconnected personal histories, anecdotes, and from a historical viewpoint in this work by Simon Schama.
Author Schama investigates the debt of France to comparable countries in Europe at the time and finds the monetary and tax situation no worse than other countries.
Simon Schama's ebullient and irrepressible personality come through in full force in this work.
It's working so far though one G'reads critic correctly points out the back and forth(in time) narrative can get a bit confusing.So...
Like that waterboarding do ya????One of the criticisms leveled at this book is that it focuses too much on individual stories and on the bloody and barbaric behavior of the revolutionaries and then somewhat underplays the overarching positive outcome of the revolution, which was CHANGE...
Too bad for Louis that they were overwhelmed by the trauma of France's getting rid of it's monarchy.- Seems like the author has a soft spot for the rebels of the Vendee.
It was intended to represent Napoleon's imperial conquests and erase the memories of the Revolution, but it quickly lost one tusk and the other was reduced to a 'powdery stump', whilst its eyes sunk into 'the furrows and pockmarks of its large, eroded head.' In the end, a watchman, Levasseur, lived in one of its legs with rats, and neighbors complained that their houses 'were being colonized by raiding parties sent out from the elephant.' This interesting mixture of wit, information and description sets the tone for the rest of the book.
The reader of this book can therefore be grateful to Jack Plumb for giving the impetus to the author to write this detailed,sensitive, amusing, but also very imaginative understanding of the momentous events and celebrated people of the French Revolution.
maybe two weeks on the French Revolution in 10th Grade and that I've been thinking about it so much for the past so long I wanted to read more about it.Unfortunately, this was not the book I really wanted.For starters, it's clear that Schama has done his research.
And in that, the book does have a really nice structure and does, in so many places, get into the humanity and the faces of the French Revolution, making me think about the actual people who were around for this.
One day I'll find a book on The French Revolution that I'll hold up and tell everyone to read.
Which is an unsettling bias, because, while the French revolution and Reign of Terror were undoubtedly violent and insane, and while the guillotine did herald the mechanized mass-death that characterizes the 19th century and beyond and that reached perhaps its most chilling modern incarnation in the gas ovens of the Holocaust, nonetheless the ideals and aims of the revolution can't really be compared to those of National Socialism and it's a bit disingenuous, not to mention kind of icky, to so firmly compare the two.
Schama pretty much reaffirms my general worldview and my personal opinion of the French revolution.
He dwells on the descent of the revolution into primal violence, which he argues gave it both its legitimacy and its energy.
The full horror of the Terror, the crushing of the Vendean rebels, the brutal dechristianisation is all laid bare.
Schama is biased.
Which is good.
A good, long book.
Could perhaps do with a little fleshing out here and there.
I had to keep going back to the index to look up individuals that Schama is constantly namedropping.
Gets a little confusing after a while.
A history of France from the last decades of monarchy through the end of the Terror in 1794.
His insightful, sympathetic stories of the various people concerned keeps the human interest so that the history does not seem too dry.
Two regulars are Lafayette and Talleyrand, both of whom had been significant figures during the monarchy, and both of whom managed to survive the revolution and into the age of Napoleon.
The only down side of the book is that, even in paperback, it is heavy and unwieldy, so that reading it for any length of time is a logistic challenge.
Best read propped against a pillow.
If you think humanity is perfectible and 'democratic' revolutions are a good thing, you should read this book to be disabused of your notions. Schama describes the bloody and horrific French Revolution by focusing on personalities and how they drove it. We are forced to watch as the Revolution devours itself and wave after wave of reformers end up executed by the wave that follows them. Attacks on the Church were front and center as the Jacobins took over. Women and children were buried alive and hundreds of thousands were slaughtered. This is the foundation of modern France.
This was the book that started my obsession with the French Revolution. When I got to the part about the monarchs escaping Paris, I decided to pause and start reading about Marie Antionette, which was actually a very good approach. Schama's book is exhaustively detailed (want to know exactly what everyone said at every meeting of every political club in Paris in 1789?) but written in a lively style.
This was an impressive read. Schama surely succeeded in telling a detailed and suspenseful story of the French Revolution. See my review in my Senes-of-History account: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Dense. Assumes a fair familiarity with the topic. Absolutely delightful. The best French history book I own.
قراءة في كتاب المؤرخ سايمون شامامواطنون: حكايات الثورة الفرنسيةbit.ly/1t01Deo
A chronicle is right.
A serious undertaking by Mr. Schama.
With dazzling feats of pathological research Schama narrows in on the absolute minutia of the Revolutionary age and narrows in on it.
Each separate detail becomes an elaborate subplot which conjoin to create a seething, kaleidoscopic nightmare vision of history.
I was reminded of Pynchon and his endless cast of grotesques and Moby Dick for its countless right turns and tacked-on fascinations.
It is a history though, and as such its very, very good.
As mentioned, however, Schama doesn’t consider his role to make things seem simpler than they are.
A broad and detailed history of the revolution.The narrative is very readable, and Schama does a good job balancing the human drama with analysis of the Revolution’s history.
Schama also ably covers the competing factions, and how international wars affected the course of the revolution.A few figures don’t get as much coverage as some readers might expect (Danton, for example), and the narrative ends in 1794, so there is nothing on the rest of the Directory’s time, or on the rise of Napoleon.
Some more detail on the revolutionary wars would still have helped, though.
