https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19634.Who_Will_Run_the_Frog_Hospital_
Every once in a while you read a news story about a recluse who's devoted his life to some miniature: the New York skyline on a grain of rice, Angkor Wat in porcelain.
(I should note I have no reason to believe that Lorrie Moore is a bearded recluse.) Frog Hospital -- which I love, love, love -- isn't a novel of great inventiveness, or scope, or wisdom.
So, based on historical data, let me offer you a qualified recommendation: read this.
First off, let me say that I adore Moore's short stories.
*Adore.* And find her work as a novelist as lacking in real bite or interest as, say, the novels of Ethan Canin, which are some kind of horrible.
I read part of this once before and gave up and only picked it up again because someone I esteem loves it.Hard pressed to explain why this novel so irritated me.
But overdeliberate writing about minutiae is just as contrived, only in a different way.Bah. At any rate, a lovely and annoying novel.
2  starsWho Will Run the Frog Hospital is the first book I have read by Lorrie Moore. Apparently it has been eight years since she last published a novel. My sense here is that she simply tried too hard, or perhaps she was shooting for something that she couldn’t quite pull off, because the story – two stories, really – didn’t connect in the way I suspected she wanted them to. Interactions between characters felt disjointed, and the writing often came across as contrived: Earl was Earl Gray, a m
Another example: central character Berie goes with her friend Sils to a new local restaurant for a drink.
This is Lorrie Moore’s most moving work to date.” The friendship between the two girls didn’t ring true to me: I never felt “moved”; and any bonding seemed pretty-much unidirectional, for Berie.
That summer, Sils made a picture of the frogs with her and Berie in the background in the midst of a swamp.
One day I saw a couple of boys killing frogs: they used a big, heavy stick like a baseball bat to whack the poor creatures out into the pit.
4.5 stars In Paris we eat brains every night.  So begins Lorrie Moore's sumptuous novel(la) Who Will Run the Frog Hospital?, a work that's two-thirds girls-coming-of-age-in-the-Nixon-years and one-third a tale of middle-age regret and lost opportunities. That it's compressed into 150 pages (which, when reading, feels much longer, in a good way) imbued throughout with a "you-are-there" feeling, chock-full of memorable lines, is remarkable. It starts with Benoîte-Marie (Berie) in Paris, traveling
So begins Lorrie Moore's sumptuous novel(la) Who Will Run the Frog Hospital?, a work that's two-thirds girls-coming-of-age-in-the-Nixon-years and one-third a tale of middle-age regret and lost opportunities.
Much of the novel centers on Berie's teenage friendship with Silsby Chaussée, their lives spent working at Storyland (a cheesy amusement park) and, armed with fake IDs, hitting up the taverns on the outskirts of town.
It's in these formative years (which kinda have the feel of an SE Hinton novel, but slathered with snarky humor) that we see the groundwork laid for Berie's adulthood.
The weather systems in girls' lives and friendships are worthy of serious study. That is the thesis of this perfect book.
En general, I love me some Lorrie Moore.
It reminded me of when you go to an art gallery, and they have some special show of Picasso pencil drawings that he did as a Youth.
Even I could do this, and I can't even usually draw a circle that doesn't look like an oval." This book is like Picasso pencil art: lacking in color, details, and, really a point.
If you squint, you can see some strains of genius, but really, if you're being honest with yourself, a pencil drawing art exhibition is not worth your time.
I could not figure out where in Upstate New York this book was supposed to take place.
I'll ignore certain details and place the book as being in Saratoga, and the theme park as being out near where my parents live, and then I will believe that Lorrie Moore only writes books that take place within close proximity to places I have lived.
Or not, and instead just face the idea that the book doesn't really take place in any real place and it's an amalgamation of places in upstate New York.
Lorrie Moore's prose is, at just the right moments, lofty and lyrical without ever being pretentious.
Yes, it's a coming of age story about the awkwardness of transition, a storyline that's been done over and over and over again, yet never quite like this.
Moore makes it seem effortless.
She introduces us to Berie and Sils and their small bubble of a universe and 148 pages later we're nostalgic and reminiscent and more than a wee bit sad.
I get that this isn't going to be everyone's cup of tea.
I mean, hey, not everyone listens to or likes Joni Mitchell.
Moore and I are contemporaries so me (and a few billion other boomers) will easily recognize her sense of time.
Best friends with an intensity only teenagers can conjure up, to the point that it feels like first love with all it’s sensuality and body awareness, with lots of touching, not in a sexual way however.
Silsby is Cinderalla, literally wearing that costume at the local amusement park, but also for awkward, late to develop Berie.
Berie idolizes Silsby from close by.
They’re grown women who’ve grown apart, there’s still love but no commonality except their shared past.
I love Moore's tragic sense of humor.
(there is no there there.) berrie carr eats parisian brains in an attempt to taste something familiar, she catches up with her rich french-american friend living off french welfare who reminds her of sils, she loves her husband who pushed her down a flight of stairs and who asks her which "aggrandizement" they are in paris.
men ask sils to dance, and berrie stares and thinks they wonder where sils came from.
men ask berrie to dance, and sils tilts her head back as her boyfriend nuzzles his mouth into her neck.
Lorrie Moore is quickly becoming one of my favorite literary fiction writers. She has a perfect blend of insight and humor mixed into her writing, a combination that leaves you smiling even as something painful or awkward is happening in the story. While this didn't grab me as much as A Gate at the Stairs or Like Life, it was still a pleasure to read. If literary fiction is your thing, definitely check out Moore's books.
This is the second novel by Lorrie Moore that I have read, and now I want to read some of her short stories. This is a minimalist novel that alternates between the narrator as an adult with a tenuous marriage and narrator as a teenager in small-town America, embroiled in a friendship with another girl that she later revisits. Much is summarized; the highlighted moments are important and tender, several strands pulled into an impressionistic picture.
Ignore the unfortunate title; this is as elegant and powerful a narrative of remembrance as Nabokov's Speak, Memory.
Sadly, my favourite part of this novel was the title.
If you like to read novels about 15 year olds who smoke, steal, smoke pot who both live in disfunctional families who are teens in the very early 1970s, and then the protagonist is now married and staying with a spouse who cheats on her, and there is much symbolism in how they like to eat brains (how the books starts and it comes up again later), go ahead and read it.
If, however, you believe in God (Jewish, Christian, Muslim etc), don't bother because you're going to find at least one part very offensive.
Otherwise, I'd have never bothered.
The frame narrative, set in Paris, is also excellently written and smart, the story of a 40 year old woman who is estranged from all sorts of things.My only hesitation is that there is a small mishmash between the two sections, almost like one of those John Lennon Beatles songs where they stick 20 seconds of Paul McCartney noodling at the end.
Those noodles are great - it's Paul McCartney!
This is an all time great novella and two-thirds of a really good short-story, stitched together.
It left me wanting more.
Recently I found myself thinking of Margaret Atwood’s great novel Cat’s Eye, about a friendship, close and scary both, between two Canadian girls.
This got me thinking of another great novel of young female friendship, Who Will Run the Frog Hospital?, by Lorrie Moore, and it’s my weekend read.
The novel alternates between Berie the adult in Paris, and her days and nights as a teen coming of age in an upstate New York town.
But this 1994 novel, though not long, has more emotional weight than some of her early stuff, and resonates deeply both in its exploration of teenage friendship, and of a marriage of some duration that is starting to wither.
When I was in 11th grade, my English teacher, who knew how much I loved to read, recommended this book to me.
Four years later, I found a copy in my favorite used bookstore in Philadelphia and five years after the initial recommendation, I sat down and read it in one evening.I started reading it while I was taking a bath, and I really wish that I hadn't because I didn't bring a pen with me to underline my favorite parts.
I'll reread it again and try to remember to do that.This is one of those required readings for girls that explain really succinctly how confusing it is to be a girl.
yet another book that should be almost 4 star..
beautiful use of language and very evocative of growing up and teen age angst.
The book leaves a lot unsaid.
painting a broad picture of a family that appears to have no emotional connection or warmth and the impact on the main character.
The main thread discusses the closeness between two teenage girls..a bond that seems so strong at the time yet is so fragile when confronted by thereality of growing up.
Heard an interview with the author on pbs which brought me to this book and will certainly read others by this same writer.
Poignant, funny and beautifully written: a wonderful evocation of adolescent friendship and adult regret, hindsight, etc. A great coming-of-age story, and recommended to all fans of the same. Definitely want to read more by this author.
A short, beautiful coming of age story, written with Moore's characteristic wit and charm.
She writes beautifully - unfortunately, I don't always understand what she's writing about!
I will re-read paragraphs - as I often do - to try to understand, but sometimes I just scratch my head.
It's as if I've encountered very personal poetry (dressed as prose) where I don't follow the allusions or the symbolism.Ah well, but I do love, love, love the 84% (that may be generous!) that I grasp.
I will keep reading these two superb authors, and relish the 84% (generously!) that I do get.
A possibility comes to mind: "The author strings a few clever phrases with good verbs and nouns together well." If someone said that to me, I'd be like, "No, thanks." Life is too short not to read a fun book.
Plainly, we don't read fiction for the language; we read it for a good story.
Yet, this novel is in first-person, so maybe it's a fiction-memoir.
If we are to read this novel as a pseudo memoir, I wonder what the narrator has learned.
There is the possibility that I will never remember this novel any day the rest of my life.
i think that maybe if i were to read this book later in my life it would be more appealing. so for now, it’s a 2/5.
“My life like an old turnip: several places at once going bad.” Who Will Run the Frog Hospital? is a look back at what the publishing industry euphemistically calls “young adulthood” by a writer who, during her own years on the young side of adulthood, preferred to dwell on life’s inglorious middle. While Moore refrains from some of the snappier crutches of the genre, she does demonstrate a fantastic ear for the pithy truths of those looking upon the grown-up world for the first time as near-pe
is a look back at what the publishing industry euphemistically calls “young adulthood” by a writer who, during her own years on the young side of adulthood, preferred to dwell on life’s inglorious middle.
Looking back, years later, from a lonely dinner in Paris with her husband, Berie sees in her friendship with Sils, despite its hiccups and small hurts, love in the purest form she’s ever known.The style is quietly autobiographical here when compared with the light farce of A Gate at the Stairs, and yet Berie’s voice is sharper than Tessie Keltjin’s.
The narrator voices a feeling I've had, that we are all just collections of the people we've met, even the girl who lives down the street 30 years ago.
So many moments were poignant for me, the feeling that a friend is going through something so different from you that you can never be friends again.
"It was hard to think of all the ways you'd never come through for people, closed them out, never loved them and still order lunch." You can just about bear anything, much more than you think.
A slim novel but one of the best.
The slender ones usually are.
Or at least more likely to be than the fat ones.A disillusioned woman, sort of stumbling through but forward in life, looks back on her coming of age and her relationship with her best friend.
Captures the persona of a young teenager —funny, wisecracking at times, yet often tender and childlike, longing for simultaneous innocent childhood and adventurous adulthood.
“…my grandmother, who, when I visited, stared at me with the staggering, arrogant stare of the dying, the wise vapidity of the already gone; she refused to occupy the features of her face.”
Like this."Passing cafes and restaurants, I walk through the bright glance of men in love, who, looking briefly away from the lover across from them in order to more perfectly form a sentence, unwittingly cast their gaze across my path like a light.
And so, momentarily, to have accidentally caught their desire, swimming across the current of it like that, passing through, I feel loved, in a warm and random way, wandering through it, as if it were a rainbow, that old trick of light, or a place in a pool where someone has peed.
This novella is an incredible read.
Laurie Moore is one of the most skillful living writers out there.
Even the first sentence, "In Paris, we eat brains every night" is awesome.
Moore really grips at life here, the disconnection between husband and wife, the loss of friendship between the narrator and Sils, the loss of potential friendship with LaRue's suicide.
Moore makes use of the contrast between a French town of Horsehearts, ME and Paris, France to show a lingual disconnect that reflects the disconnection her narrator, Berie, feels towards her husband Daniel and between girlhood and womanhood.
The strength of this book, I had thought in the course of reading it, was in its super-oxygenated prose, wholly fresh and often exhilarating.
It wasn't until I got to its final pages I realized that all these carefully hooked sentences had served to get ever and ever closer to the packed away of emotions in the adult heart, unpicking at the layers of packaging.
I had some vague sense it was happening throughout, but wasn't expecting it to get as close as it got.
At the end, I closed the book, turned off my light and wept into my cat until I fell asleep.
A really beautifully written little book. Moore's prose and deft turn of phrase make for a great read in this short novel. Mostly a flashback to one year of a young girl's life when she and her best friend began their journey into adulthood. Some really great passages that I had to underline; I even (gasp!) dog-eared a couple of pages so I could easily return for a re-read. Almost a 5 star read.
