https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32453.The_Servants_of_Twilight
I was expecting more a horror story, instead it was an action packed suspenseful thriller!Single mum Christine is living a quiet existence with her son Joey, until one day they are confronted by a ragged old woman in the car park of a shopping centre.
Unfortunately for Christine and Joey, this batty old woman is the head of a cult who now believes that her son is the Antichrist and will bring about the end of the world.
Christine, Charlie and Joey were all written really well and I loved all the dialogue between them, especially 6 year old Joey.
This hardcover is numbered 233 of 450 copies produced an is signed by author Dean Koontz and illustrator Phil Parks on limitation page.
This isn't your average mother-and-son story. The Servants of Twilight is like Rosemary's Baby combined with The Shining, the frightening and intensely tilling story of a woman whose child is in danger of being harmed or even killed by a secretive group - who believe he is the antichrist.
Charlie is more of Joey's "Magnum PI" hero.Mother Grace Spivey has "paranoid schizophrenia" that Joey is the coming of the world's "Twilight, Doomsday and the Antichrist (followers of Jesus)".The bible will ruled, mankind suffering begin, battle of Armageddom will transpire (save end of the world) & God will destroy Satan forever.?????Joey must be killed - to stop the Antichrist evil that will rule the earth for 1000s of years - it's Devils & Demons.At the end, while in the cave would Grace Spivey's shots kill Joey or did they scare the bats as expected?
Private Investigator, Charlie Harrison, protects Christine Scavello(mom - 30) and Joey from "The Witch" (and her believers, e.g. Kyle Barlowe a major character).
There was a time when I thought Dean Koontz wrote circles around Stephen King.
He wasn’t famous.
He had a cult following and he made you feel like you just discovered someone cool.
He was the anti-King you could keep to yourself or share with a selected few.
Koontz, of course, went the way of all flesh and began cranking them out and repeating himself.
Fame?
Well, if ‘Family Guy’ rips on you, fame has become your enemy.
I haven’t read a Koontz novel since Odd Thomas became a regular character.
The early books were dynamic, rip-snorting fast and most of all—interesting.
And too often the story revolves around a single/divorced/unwed mother of a young child and the guy who helps her out of whatever predicament she's in ends up falling for her and she for him and it all ends up happily ever after.
I was intrigued by the 'is this child the Anti-Christ?' mystery yet was disappointed how this story ended without delving further and playing more with that concept.
Even though this story was apparently written back in the '80s (and originally just titled Twilight), it was amusing that the followers of the cult were called Twilighters.
Finally once they think they have found a safe place atop a mountain in the freezing cold amongst blizzards, they still somehow find them and end up shooting their body guard they hired when the police wouldn't help them that has also fallen in love with the boys mother.
The giant brute at the end seemingly kills their new dog as well by bashing him on the head with his gun and it looks like no matter what they will all die in this cave, but ol Kyle the ugly giant finally finds his heart and decides that he's through with killing.
So of course I have wanted to read the book for years, thinking the story was awesome, and if the movie was good, the book is usually even better right?Well, the book was basically just as good as the movie in this case.
The first half of the book seriously follows the movie, down to dialogue and step by step action.
It works well in both versions, I think.I always like anti-christ children plots.
Maybe because there's only so much you can do with this kind of story, but I haven't encountered that many anti-christ children stories.
"We're all just actors in a cosmic horror film in God's private movie theater." - The Servants of Twilight, end of Chapter 32Everything that deceives also enchants.
- PlatoThis book certainly has a lot of action in it and it does start out rather intriguing, but in the end, it is far from being included among my favorite Dean Koontz stories.The Servants of Twilight is one of five novels which Dean previously published under the female pen name, Leigh Nichols.
And for the first time, Charlie had the feeling that the three of them somehow belonged together, that their destinies were linked, that they had more of a future together than just their investigator-client relationship.
It was a nice, warm feeling.
He is one of the most prolific authors out there and whether he is writing a thriller, fantasy, sci-fi, or straight-up horror novel, it won't disappoint.
It's a straight up thriller and even though I have read it before (though probably 20 years ago), I couldn't put it down and it kept me busy on the bus ride to and from New York City this past weekend.
The plot is easy to sum up: single Mom Christine and her six year old son Joey become the target of a cult when the cult's leader becomes convinced Joey is the antichrist.
On a normal regular day, Christine Scavello and her 6-year old son Joey are leaving a shopping mall, and are approached by a strange woman, who suddenly starts screaming at Joey, believing him to be the Antichrist.
Now Christine and Joey have been targeted by a group of religious fanatics calling themselves the Servants of Twilight, being led by Grace Spivey, the same woman who approached Christine and Joey in the parking lot.
This one stole a star sliding into home at the last second leaving the ending ambiguous and a little creepy.
However, most of the book is the same rhetoric spewed in the same formula with little variation to warrant anyone picking this particular Koontz book up over any of the others.
The theme of two sides of the coin, but in the same pocket allows the reader to wonder, and second guess his way through most of the novel.
Hesitantly we stick with the good guys, but we continue to wonder if we're routing for the right team.
Great read, great pacing, and subtle and reserved descriptive passages that blend better than most of DK’s descriptions. Just a very clean and satisfying book with all the characteristics of a great action thriller with hints of the right kind of supernatural - foreshadowed, assumed, and never completely revealed.
This book was good, and very suspenseful. I picked it up to read, and I thought I wouldn't like it (though I'll give every book a fighting chance), and I was surprised when I couldn't put it down. My main problem with this book is that the ending was somewhat vague, and not nearly as gripping as the beginning of the story...
This is the first Dean Koontz book I ever read. I've been hooked ever since. Great read!
I read this a very, very long time ago. I do remember this story was very creepy!
Nice thriller with some horror elements mixed in. Ending is a little sappy though.
This one was published back in 1984 (originally under his pseudonym, Leigh Nichols, with the title “Twilight”) and reminds me a lot of other Koontz books I’ve read from that period…enough to like but nothing to write home about.Most of the novel is much more of a suspense tale than a traditional horror story, just as I expect from Koontz.
Unfortunately, there is too much of this, with long drawn-out passages describing the feelings of various players involved and I frequently found myself thinking he needed to get on with things.Underneath this surface story is the far more interesting psychological aspects of the novel and this is where the other kind of horror comes in.
This is an exciting novel, completely in the tradition of Dean Koontz who truly knows how to build one scene upon another of suspense and building questions - then to satisfyingly exhale (as it were) the resolutions and the answers, the relief to tension, one question at a time or more often all at once...In this novel the 'mystery' is the question of who exactly is after an innocent little eight year old boy and why.
The action consists of trying to protect both the boy (Joey) and his mother (Christine) in what becomes an all out hunt for little Joey.
2.75..........I feel like I've been much more critical of books this year.
(Although I recently listened to another Koontz book and really liked it).
It's basically a story of a religious fanatic who sets out to kill a little boy because she thought him to be the anti-Christ.
That alone made me think it would be a little scary........it wasn't.
I also wasn't thrilled with the insta-love of these characters.
---Anyways.......sad to say I was disappointed with this book but that won't stop me from reading more Koontz.
A little boy is targeted by a group of religious fanatics (Christians, naturally, in case you had any doubts.
Didn't you know we're all a bunch of rabid backwoods bastards?) whose leader believes him to be the Antichrist and his mother enlists the help of a private investigator to help her protect him from these whackadoodles.
It was a good book but it dragged on for-ev-er and in the end, I'm still not convinced that the kid ISN'T the Antichrist.
I enjoyed the book, I just didn't enjoy the predictable Christians-as-fanatics line that is so typical of our society.
Originally published as "Twilight" in 1984, under the pseudonym Leigh Nichols, this is a very interesting work by Koontz.
A woman and her son are stalked by an old woman who has branded the boy The Antichrist - and soon they are chased by religious cult known as The Church of Twilight.
The Servants of Twilight are everywhere; and all of them want to kill the boy.
Will Christine and Joey manage to survive ?TSOT is a fast paced and enjoyable novel, some even named it the best of his early works.
It's a very fast paced book, with a somewhat different ending from his other books.
The book was pretty good and plenty suspenseful. However Dean took describing the scenery a little too seriously, where in my opinion it was not necessary. It got boring a few times, but overall interesting plot.
I re-read the dog-eared paperback copy I've had on my bookshelf originally written by Leigh Nichols, and named simply Twilight. It still hold sup next to later books by Koontz in that it has a great pacing and drive, the story unfolding slowly to get to the twists and the end.
creepy ass book
Sucky ending! Otherwise typical Koontz and reasonably distracting.
A really good read fast paced
In 'The Servants of Twilight' Koontz show us why he is one of the finest masters of suspense.Christine, a single mother with a charming little six year old boy named Joey, has a chance encounter with a crazy old lady outside a shopping mall one fine Sunday afternoon.
However a few scenes early in the novel suggest that Joey may really be the Antichrist and the old lady may really be the messenger of God destined to stop him.
In many ways 'The Servants of Twilight' is a stereotypical Koontz book, with the death-toll rising as it progresses, and with bomb blasts and lots of guns and of course, two golden retrievers.
I can't write a decent review of this book, because this is the only Koontz novel of which I don’t have the original English text.
Christine seeks the help of Charlie Harrison, a private investigator, and together they try to stay alive.Religion is a popular theme with Koontz, but in “The Servants of Twilight” he approaches it from a completely different angle.
But I might get that from a bad translation, as well.I still hope to read the original text one day, which perhaps will make me enjoy and thus like the novel better.
Great Read!I love Dean Koontz and his psychological thrillers, to me that is what a scary book is all about, but more to it there is depth of all the characters that keep you up late into the night having to know what happens next!If you enjoy the psychological scare, I would definitely say you need to read this!!
