https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582105.Fury
It isn't bad and it has a solid plot thread and a very streamlined theme, from breaking off the yoke of immortals only to realize you are one, to founding a rebellion allowing all the people to earn their own immortality and a place in the sun.
No embarrassing idiocies and I can tolerate a climate-controlled venus just fine when it's in service to a decent tale.However, all in all, it's just too simple for my taste.
Throw in a smattering of telepathy, the prejudice that might come from immortals, and a somewhat exotic location, and it's a pretty classic SF theme.
5.5 stars. One of my favorite "classic" science ficiton novels. A truly under-rated work that deserves a lot more recoginition than it gets. Clearly, Henry Kuttner's best work (with some uncredited help from his wife, C.L. Moore. Classic Science Fiction at its best and a ton of fun!!!
1946 had been a very good year indeed for Henry Kuttner and C.L. Moore, with a full dozen stories published plus three fine novels ("The Fairy Chessmen," "Valley of the Flame" and "The Dark World"), and in 1947, sci-fi's preeminent husband-and-wife writing team continued its prolific ways.
Before the year was out, the two had succeeded in placing another 15 stories into the pulp magazines of the day, in addition to the novel for which Kuttner is best remembered: "Fury." A classic of Golden Age sci-fi, "Fury" originally appeared in the May, June and July issues of "Astounding Science-Fiction" under one of the pair's many pseudonyms, Lawrence O'Donnell.
Originally published in Astounding magazine in 1947 under the pseudonym Lawrence O'Donnell who is Henry Kuttner co-authoring with his wife Catherine L. Moore. The book is set on Venus several centuries after an atomic armageddon has destroyed Earth. Mankind lives in a series of domed undersea keeps, because the land-life is so awful that earlier attempts to settle Venus have all failed. The race is slowly stagnating inside those domes, despite the more or less benevolent wardship of the Immortals, a group of long-lived mutants.
Sam Reed/Harker is resourceful, relentless, and unscrupulous, and the sheer force of his will bleeds into the narration, so it takes on his straight-line impetus that bulldozes everything in the way.
He is a wild cannon who can be counted on to do the most destructive thing, even if that thing was not intentional.
His automatic reaction is to towards destruction--crime, swindle, violence, strong-arm persuasion, blackmail, all driven by an inexplicable fury.The rest of the story curlicues around him, revealing strange intricacies.
The long-lived puppeteers of society, the Immortals, are put in positions where they want to discourage colonization but because of previously stated goals must support it publicly, and play an impossibly long game against their rivals.
Pretty sure I read it, back in the day. No real recollection, though....
Henry Kuttner and his wife C L Moore began writing in the pulps during the 30s.
You can also see his influences on others such as Roger Zelazny who stated the Kuttner's book "Dark World" was an inspiration for his "Amber series.
They live in "Keeps" named after US states (Delaware Keep, Montana Keep) and this world is ruled over by families of Mutants called "Immortals" who are taller, more graceful,and live up to 1000 years.
He eventually rises up to challenge the status quo of the Immortals and strives to bring what's left of the human race to the surface world.
Blaze, however, is borderline insane and, for reasons we need not go into here, has his baby son surgically altered and abandons him to be brought up among the short-lived humans.The child grows up with the name of Sam Reed, working initially under the tutelage of the Fagin-like Slider.Meanwhile, the immortal Robin Hale believes that Humanity should be moving out onto the surface of Venus, a policy that the ruling immortals currently oppose.Sam decides to help Hale; a decision which brings him into conflict with Zachariah Harker, while neither of them are aware of the fact that they are closely related.Sam manipulates the media to raise volunteers and money to establish a colony on the surface, but is betrayed by his mistress.The narrative jumps fifty years ahead to where Sam awakens in a street, having been helped there by a mysterious stranger.
Published in 1950, this book is a classic if not well know work of science fiction from Henry Kuttner, an author who deserves to be remembered – and read – more often than is the case these days.
Fury is the story of a man named Sam Reed, a resident of Venus in a future when all that's left of Humanity exists in domed keeps under the seas of that world.
There are no simple good guys or bad guys in this story, though Sam Reed certainly qualifies as an anti-hero.
This book was suggested to me by a friend from Sweden when she visited the States. Classic SF is always a mixed bag - some of it very good, some of it bearable, some of it is just silly, some of it not worth reading even once. I'm happy to report that Fury is one of the very good ones, and surely a much overlooked gem.Thanks, my friend, for the wonderful suggestion (and for demanding that I purchase it when we took time to browse through Kankakee's Paperback Reader used book store)!
It's a fast moving, enjoyable book. It's pacing, language, and tone remind me a lot of The Stars My Destination. I'd be very surprised if Harry Harrison hadn't read this before he wrote Deathworld as Venus is described exactly like Deathworld.
I have a Hamlyn 1981 edition
The author('s/s')* ambiguous attitude to the repellent/charismatic protagonist doesn't really offset the essentially fascist message that mankind needs conflict to avoid effete limpness, and that a 'strong man' prepared to do nasty things is the most efficient way of 'getting things done' - but this isn't really unusual for the pulps, so hey ho.**What I think makes the book so forgettable is that events unfurl with little rhyme or reason, and the grand schemes of the characters are so tenuous they could only succeed due to authorial fiat.
It's frequently unclear what is happening, let alone why, and the frequent timeskips suggest the author(s) often couldn't be bothered to write their way out of the cul-de-sac they'd written themselves into.
There’s a wonderful idea for a cursed cloak that is really a sort of manta ray that makes its wearer soporifically happy while slowly eating them; and a relative that lives on land, a “siren web” that pulses strange colors to draw victims into its strands, where it sings while it eats them.The book also has some neat ideas about oracles, and why they need to speak obliquely when they foretell the future.
Libro molto particolare, che tra alti e bassi, racconta l'inizio della colonizzazione di Venere da parte degli ultimi abitanti della Terra, che in seguito alla devastazione di quest'ultima si sono rifugiati in enormi cupole sotto i mari di Venere.
Questa nuova società venusiana, è comandata da alcune famiglie che posseggono il dono dell'immortalità, aspetto però non molto approfondito dall'autore, e che guidano il destino di queste riserve.
Il libro inizia in maniera abbastanza confusa, con l'autore che non riesce a descrivere con chiarezza la società venusiana, ma man mano che esce fuori il personaggio di Sam, il libro acquista vigore e ritmo, nonchè anche alcuni interessanti colpi di scena.
Come Asimov con le avventure di Lucky Starr anche in Furia l'autore parte dalla considerazione "peregrina", ma comune all'epoca, che su Venere il clima fosse sì caldo ma ricco in CO2 e di acqua (oceani immensi) con flora e fauna rigogliose.
Il tutto all'interno di colonie sottomarine guidate dalla benevola protezione di una casta minoritaria ultra-longeva.
Il racconto quindi sconta una visione scientifica che definire datata è poco.
L'ultima parte vorrebbe essere l'antefatto della vicenda ma può essere saltato in toto; credo quindi sia un assemblaggio dettato da scelte editoriali più che dell'autore e come tale inutile.
I was just getting into science fiction and a friend at school had told me that Henry Kuttner wrote great short stories so when I saw this novel in the reduced section at Woolworths I bought it.
It took me a few weeks to get round to reading it as I had been disappointed by much of the science fiction I had loved as a teenager when I re-read them over forty years later.However I still enjoyed this one as the author is a great writer who tells a compelling story and gets in a lot of classical allusions too!
Unlike many other SF protagonists from the 40's, Sam Reed is driven by his overwhelming anger.
Unlike me, Sam has a counterexample, the lithe immortals who rule the domed keeps of the Venusian seas.
Sam's violent, deceitful struggle against society is a compelling, propulsive story that leaps by decades from page to page.
(view spoiler)[His eventual victories reflect badly on humanity, because even after destroying Earth they can only find satisfaction in wiping out all Venusian life.
They were my favorite part of the book.
It's a great idea to bring these old SF books back into print but I wish they had been more closely proofed.
Set on Venus some centuries in the future, with the Earth literally destroyed by atomic war, this book is equal parts interesting and depressing.
Humanity is restricted to domed cities under the seas of Venus, with almost nothing to do.
(The novel follows on the earlier novella "Clash by Night", in which the various undersea domes were separate city states using mercenary fleets against each other.
The only encroachments on the mainland were the various port bases for these fleets.)The novel has social critique, family in-fighting, a spy story, hope for the future, and a whole lot else.
Both back and front of my beautiful old paperback of this proclaim "This is no story for the lily-livered!
This is a novel of violence!" And in many ways, it is exactly that.
But not, perhaps, in the ways one might expect.
It is an exceptionally well-realised portrait of a colonised Venus, and Sam Reed is a fine and fascinating character.
I've a feeling this will bear a good few repeat readings to get more out of it, for it isn't what I had expected it to be at all, not least because I am unused to the 1940s sales pitch ;)
I stumbled upon this book while scavenging through someone else's trash Hey, don't look at me that way!...
I live in Venezuela, where such activity is a time honored tradition for everyday survival.
Plus, I'm a starving writer so that's ok) and came up with a ragged and dog-eared paperback copy of this novel.Since I'm an equal opportunity reader (I read and give everything a chance to tell me a story...
even trash) I went into it...
and was hooked.Now this tattered paperback it's one of my most prized books.Give it a try if you're into classic sci-fi; it may become one of yours!
Nach einem atomaren Desaster auf der Erde hat sich die Menschheit in Unterwasserstädten auf der Venus zurückgezogen. Doch das Überleben der Rasse ist fraglich, da eine Kaste von Unsterblichen die Städte beherrscht und Ihre Macht brutal ausnützt.Doch einer der Unsterblichen erkennt die drohende Gefähr des Untergangs der Menschheit und verspricht das Überleben der Rasse zu gewährleisten... Einer der Klassiker der SF in einer Neuauflage, nachdem der Roman in diversen Heftromanen in Deutschland erstveröffentlicht wurde.
Libro composto da due racconti "furia" e "scontro della notte"FURIA **** L'ho trovato molto bello. Questo mondo su Venere sotto le acque, gli immortali, i cavalieri di ventura??insomma devo dire che mi ha preso proprio. Lui figlio di un immortale ma da piccolo trasformato in un mortale..è dato in affidamento, da grande sconvolge gli equilibri e porta gli umani sulla superficie. Davvero bello!!!!SCONTRO NELLA NOTTE ** Ma è la storia di un cavaliere di ventura..ma sinceramente mi è piaciuto poco. Le battaglie e la vita militare proprio non è il mio genere.
The original printing of this story was published under a pseudonym: Lawrence O'Donnell. It first appeared as a serial in Astounding Science Fiction (May 1947). Interestingly this same issue contains German defector Willy Ley's exposé on Nazi occultism, which introduced the English-speaking world to the mysterious Vril Society, whose weird theosophy secretly dominated the thinking of many scientists of the Third Reich.You can find a good scan of this pulp magazine on Archive.org
Displays many of the typical strengths and weaknesses of golden age SF. Full of ideas, gobbets of undigested philosophy and epoch-spanning vision, but clumsily plotted and with poorly sketched female characters. Much talk of Man's Destiny and the necessity for forceful, manly men to mould the universe to their liking. But worth it for the quirky details (many of which I wish had been expanded upon) and ideas about the consequences of immortality on the human psyche.
An exceedingly well put-together novel - tight storyline and pacing combined with complex and fascinatingly dark characters. I'm always a fan of sci-fi that manages to break out of the shackles of the genre. and Fury does so with brute force. Highly recommended.
1979 grade A
I've loved this book for years! This is great classic golden age science fiction. This was one of the book that made me love sci-fi in the first place.
Once a long time ago in an exotic paradise I met a New yorker who explained that he wasn't used to tripping on natural beauty (this didn't necessarily entail the use of marijuana) but that at home he and his friends were in to "head trips" - who am I?
This seemed peculiar to me at the time, growing up on the prairie where "you" may well have been a steer or a rattlesnake.
It was interesting, some, but in the final analysis: Nah. Too few rocket ships.
I was genuinely surprised to find that this book was written in 1947. The main character predates the angry young man on 1950s and 60s British writing,and the tone of the story is surprisingly modern.It's hard to work with an unlikeable protaganist,but Henry Kuttner pulls it off brilliantly. His ideas about drug use and the effects of immortality are also very well thought out. An excellent sci fi novel that compares very favourably to better known fare like Alfred Bester's ,The Stars My Destination.If you liked that novel,make the effort to find this one.It will be worth your while.
