https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/488240.The_New_Kid_on_the_Block
The New Kid on the Block was my all-time favourite book of poetry to read to students in my classes. I usually chose to read a poem at the end of the day. It was almost a guarantee that they would go out the door laughing.
Children’s LiteratureCrystal RodriguezTitle: The New Kid on the Block Poetry: PrimaryAuthor: Jack PrelutskyIllustrator: James StevensonPlace of Publication: New York, New YorkDate: 1984 Pages: 159 Oh this is such a fun book! I remember reading it or having it read to me as a child. In fact, starting tomorrow, I plan to read a poem each day at circle time to my classroom. I know they would laugh and laugh! The poem I plan to read tomorrow is “Bleezer’s Ice Cream.” This book appeals to a wide age
Children’s LiteratureCrystal RodriguezTitle: The New Kid on the Block Poetry: PrimaryAuthor: Jack PrelutskyIllustrator: James StevensonPlace of Publication: New York, New YorkDate: 1984 Pages: 159	Oh this is such a fun book!
In fact, starting tomorrow, I plan to read a poem each day at circle time to my classroom.
The poem I plan to read tomorrow is “Bleezer’s Ice Cream.” This book appeals to a wide age group I believe as it is humorous to even me as an adult.
I have enjoyed reading poetry today as it can be so light-hearted and fun.
It's a poem book so I can not really explain what happens.
"The New Kid on the Block" features more than 100 poems. Prelutsky really uses his imagination writing about things we've thought about and things we'd never even imagined. The poems open readers up to the world and minds of children. Poems about greedy grannies, exploding Bloders, and hypothetical situations such as having your nose unfortunately situated between your toes are guaranteed to have you chuckling. It's full of surprises and the sketches are quick and easy, but still shows the true life of a kid. Children ranging from ages 6-9 would love to get their hands on this one.
I've introduced our girls to these books, too, and we've all come to love the whimsical poems and the humorous illustrations.
Our oldest received this book of poems as a present from her third-grade teacher and she loves them just as much.
Advanced vocabulary and fun, rhyming poems highlight this book of poetry for children.
Most of the poems are rather short and easy to read aloud, but our girls were introduced to some vocabulary words they were not familiar with.
I enjoyed the humorous twist to many of the poems and we all took turns reading the poems aloud.
One poem in this book is called Carpenter rages and its about how Carpenter ants are eating all the Carpenters supplies he needs.  I thought this book was okay there was some good poems and then there were poems that I thought were pretty bad.  I would recommend this book it was pretty good. It had some funny poems and it also had boring poems.
Jack Prelutsky guest-starred on the classic PBS animated television series Arthur in the episode I'm a Poet, which first aired May 19, 1997, reciting a couple of his famous poems from The New Kid on the Block in his role as judge at a kids' poetry contest.
In Today Is Very Boring, we have another poem recited by Jack Prelutsky during his appearance on Arthur, the ho-hum discourse of a boy who decries the dullness of his life even as once-in-a-lifetime occurrences humorously pop up all around him.
To help the readers to know the ball is from the girl’s left hand to her right hand.Color: For this book, the pictures only have white and black two colors, but the artist use lighter or darker black to show the colors are different.
For example, she juggled a stone…Character: For Clara Cleech, it only has one character, and she is Clara Cleech.
Type of poetry: Clara Cleech is a narrative because the whole poem is about Clara Cleech is playing with herself, and everything can be her toys.
This collection of poems is ideal for elementary students and contains poems they can relate to. Before reading this book, I had used one of the poems in this book in a comprehension lesson. I was thrilled to find many more poems in this book I can use in my instruction. The collection includes poems with rich vocabulary, promote visualization, support figurative language, and will make students laugh.
The text begins with a poem about a new kid who moved on to the block, and then continues on with a variety of different poems. Each poem is about a new subject and each poem has its own illustration. The poems within the book cover topics easily understood and relatable for children within the elementary years. Subjects consist of wondering why your dad is so mad, wondering if oysters sneeze, having a terrible headache, and many more!
Instead of it being like Shakespeare or a novel in all poetry it was several different poems, and let me just say thank goodness it was interesting.
I personally don’t like poetry but this book kept my interest through most of the book, the poems were all funny and silly, finally the poems were creative.
The book kept my interest because as I said before there are funny and silly poems.
Anyway these are the reasons why the poems are interesting, funny, and silly.I would recommend this book to you if you need a easy to understand and appropriate poem book for whatever age you are.
Prelutsky's poetry is giggle inducing, silliness for the whole family to enjoy together. Whether you need short read-aloud material for classroom breaks or a way to engage students in public speaking, there is certainly a poem worth reading in The New Kid on the Block!
‘The New Kid on the Block’, by Jack Prelutsky, is a witty collection of poems designed to humour the reader.
In Literacy, these poems could be used to study aspects of poetry, such as rhyming patterns, repetition and metaphorical language.
This could be used in year 1, to display rhyme and rhyming patterns, year 2 for repetition, rhyming patterns and metaphorical language and year 3 for a fun and interesting way to teach a more in depth lesson on poetry.
Overall, ‘The New Kid on the Block’ is an amusing collection of witty poems which I rather enjoy.
The New Kid on the Block combines poems of one theme: a neighborhood, and delves so thoroughly into the theme that Prelutsky includes Bleezer’s Ice Cream Shop’s flavor list (all of which were hilariously disgusting to me as a child, especially when my mother would get her toungue tied by the alliterative rhymes- Checkerberry Cheddar Chew/ Chicken Cherry Honeydew (p.48)) My Mother Says I’m Sickening and An Alleycat with One Life Left. But that doesn’t keep Prelutsky from adding real character to
The New Kid on the Block combines poems of one theme: a neighborhood, and delves so thoroughly into the theme that Prelutsky includes Bleezer’s Ice Cream Shop’s flavor list (all of which were hilariously disgusting to me as a child, especially when my mother would get her toungue tied by the alliterative rhymes- Checkerberry Cheddar Chew/ Chicken Cherry Honeydew (p.48)) My Mother Says I’m Sickening and An Alleycat with One Life Left.
The illustrations are simple black sketches, but do just the job to illustrate Prelutsky’s playful personalities and settings.
Rate: 4Review: The new kid on the block book is suitable for young children because it has different kinds of poems throughout the book that young children would like.
While reading this book the children will be introduced to many poems including jellyfish stew and many, many more poems throughout the book.
poem: Jellyfish StewJellyfish stew,I'm loony for you,i dearly adore you,Oh, I truly I do,You're creepy to see,Revolting to chew,you slide down insideWith a hullabaloo.You're soggy, you're smelly,You taste like shampoo,You bog down my bellyWith oodles of goo,Yet I would glue noodlesAnd prunes to my shoe,For one oozy spoonfulOf jellyfish stew
This book of poetry is written for Nursery/Primary readers.
Jack Prelutsky's book has dozens and dozens of fun, silly poems and includes outline drawing artwork by James Stevenson.
The length of the poems makes for an easy read.I liked the lighthearted nature of the poems and the silliness can be an asset, especially for children who don't like to sit and read.
I think every child will recognize a little bit of themselves in at least one poem!
All in all, the book is fun.This book is a great introduction to simple poetry for children.
This book shares a lot of great poetry for children in grades K-5. I really appreciate how each poem is unique and silly in their own way and really grasps the readers attention. This book could be a great read aloud to read everyday to students to introduce them to poetry. Often times poetry can be quite difficult to understand, but by using this book as a read aloud teachers could talk about the meaning of the poem and it can also be a fun activity at the end of the day to read silly poems.
The best poem here? The one where the new kid is set up to be a rough-and-tumble, always-in-your-face, fight-picking, over-whelming, bratty, mouthy, obnoxious.....girl.
Classic! The CD-ROM from the back in the day buffet was even better.
That does not go to say that the book was terrible, it is actually a classic.Although there were an undefined amount of literary and visual elements, I will only speak on the stronger ones.
An example of a literary element from the book is the use of repetition.
Another literary element found in the book is the use of satire in most of the poems.
As for the visual elements, nearly each poem had a far different illustration than every other one.
Another visual element was the author's use of color on the cover of the book but no color inside.
I think that's where the humor comes from but also awareness about bullies.
I rated it five stars because it was nice and fun to see the twist at the end of it being a girl but in no way would I condone the behavior she displays to the other children.
If I was using this book inside my classroom I would use in our poetry lesson but to also inform about bullies.
This story would give you a laugh but in no way is bullying funny or fun to the other kids.
Filled with humorous poems which will entertain readers of all ages, Prelutsky covers topics from bullying, to homework to a dad who is angry...for some unknown reason.
He weaves his tales in short and long poems alike, welcoming readers to the world of poetry with humor and silliness.
Dive into this book with more than 100 poems about topics of all kinds, things you may have never thought of before, at any place you like.
I, personally, have been reading this book since first receiving it as a gift in 1987 and am still entertained each time I open the cover.
Readers are able to use their imaginative and expand their minds by reading the poems in this book.This is a funny and entertaining poetry book.
The first thing that stood out to me was the large quantity of poems in this book.
Readers could read this book for hours and not get bored or run out of poems.
The impact that this book has is that it is easy to read and accessible for beginning readers.
Since it is a poetry book, the author utilizes literary elements like figurative language and rhyme.
1.)Awards the book has received (if any): Horn book Fanfare and Garden State children's book award2.)Appropriate grade level(s): 3rd-5th grade3.)Original 3-line summary: There are many poems within this book.
"The New Kid on the Block" is one of many poems.
The poem is about a new kid who's mean and plays rough.
4.)Original 3-line review: There are so many poems that can be related to a lesson.
Also, there are a few silly poems too.
The "Remarkable Mabel" poem was really silly because it talks about how Mabel had a teaspoon out his ear.
I didn't like this book that much because, all of the poems don't make sense and they all are kind of hard to read.
This book reminds me of poems like Shel Silverstein.
I would recommend this book for 6th graders and up because I cant even understand some of the words.
The words that i can't understand are like gibberish.
Here is a short summary of the book.
A new kid on the block is coming and the new kid likes to beat up kids like me.
The new girl is very mean to everyone on the block, especially me.
PoetryAwards: N/AAppropriate Grade Levels: k-5Summary: The New Kid on the Block is a collection of over 100 poems compiled into one book.
Some poems in the book are "Mabel, Remarkable Mabel", "I've Got an Incredible Headache", "Homework, Oh Homework", etc.
Interesting poems fill every page that tell a unique story.Review: The New Kid on the Block is a fantastic poem book to expose to children.
The poems within this book are designed to make children laugh, and I'm sure it does a terrific job with that.
Jack Prelutsky's work will get children interested in poetry.In-Class Uses:-End of the day activity to end school on a good note-Use poems within to teach children rhyming
One of S's summer reading challenges was to read a poetry book.
I went to the children's poetry section and pulled this one off the shelf--randomly, I thought.
Turns out I must have been drawn to it because subconsciously I remembered it.
I think one of my elementary school teachers used to read aloud to us from this poetry book, although I can't remember which teacher it was.Anyway, shortly after we checked this out S was gifted a different poetry book and we ended up reading more of that one instead, but we did read a few from this book and he was amused.
This is a fun children's poetry book with over 100 pages of poetry that kids will love and enjoy.
The poems all rhyme in some way and they each have a small illustration to go with them.
The poems in this book are fun and uplifting, but don't include any conflict.
If some of the poems included conflict I think they could be learning points for students.
I think that the book could be improved if the illustrations were bright and eye catching like the cover.
Although the illustrations don't take away from the book, students could enjoy the book a little more with additional color.
From the adventures of young boys and the terrifying girls around them, to the strange and wacky creatures and monsters that scare and intrigue humans, every page of this book takes you on a new and exciting journey! Prelutsky will keep the eyes of every young child who grabs this book glued to the pages with fun and fantastical stories sure to delight. What sort of new species wait for you on the next page?
I spent some time reviewing the work of Shel Silverstein this week, and this is the poetry anthology I loved the most from Jack Prelutsky. It's much in the same line - quick, silly, and sure to strike different laughs. I had several teachers who shared poems at times, and these two authors were always the choices in elementary schools. Prelutsky also did a lot of holiday themed anthologies, but this one holds up the best, in my opinion.
