https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2171231.Madita
They skate and skate and skate."We could skate all the way to the farm," suggests Madicken."Are we allowed to do that?" asks Lisabeth."We wouldn't be allowed to go down the road," says Madicken.
The family is already sitting down and eating breakfast."Can we buy some eggs?" asks Lisabeth, who's forgotten all the changes of plan.
"I'm afraid we don't have any money," says Madicken."But we're very hungry," says Lisabeth."I understand that you are," says Farmer Karlsson, but he doesn't really seem to understand very well, since he just goes back to eating his breakfast without saying anything else.
Aside from this being a wildly entertaining episode (maybe not entirely comme il faut, but so much fun, from Elizabeth getting a pea stuck up her nose, to the expressive and in-your-face war of words between the four little girls), this chapter also represents the first face-to-face meeting between Meg and Mia and as such, it sets sets the tone for the conflict between the two girls in the sequel (which is likely one of the main reasons, the sequel has never been translated into American English, a serious lack, as in my humble opinion, the sequel is actually superior to the first book, more evocative, dealing with heavier themes, and giving especially Meg a chance to truly shine).
We've read it with my daughther following Manny's advice.
I never saw such response from my child.
She was jumping around her room, laughing out loud, she wanted to discuss every plotline, because they all affected something inside of her.Most intersting thing is that I never saw such reaction on any fairy-tale book.
Common opinion that kids tend to love imaginery worlds, full of fabricated characters.
"Madicken" (there is a mess between "madita" and "madicken" titles, but I figured book we've just read is this one)is totally realistic.
That was a lesson about my daughter for me too.Anyway the book is unbelievble fun.
Bilingual friends tell me this is a more accurate translation than my beloved childhood version, Mischievous Meg, which apparently has whole chapters left out, as well as expurgated content.
This book reminded me why A. Lindgren was my favorite author when I was a kid. Her books just radiate such warmness.. And humor is amazing. There were some serious themes in this book also: poverty, alcoholism, insanity. Madita goes into my favorites shelf like most of other Lindgren's books.
This is definitely my favourite Astrid Lindgren book. It always reminds me of what my sister and I were like as kids.
However, I have to admit that I didn’t enjoy the book — whether because of the translation or because of the book itself or because I read it in paperback rather than listened to it on Audible — as much as I did Lindgren’s The Children of Noisy Village.
As with The Children of Noisy Village, I was at home sick when I devoured Mischievous Meg in a single morning, but it wasn’t as delightful.
Like The Children of Noisy Village, Mischievous Meg is set in a rural Sweden before automobiles became ubiquitous and before radio and television.
I liked it, but it bothered me that her mother was always so mean to that neighbour boy. I'm sure he just wanted to have fun and play with her. Just because he was poor didn't mean she had to be so rude. He just liked playing with her and doing fun things. No need to be so stuck up. Her daughter always did much worse things on her own, after all, like jumping off the roof with an umbrella, but all he did was make a funny joke about a ghost.
This was never one of my favorite stories by Astrid Lindgren when growing up and I still find it less enjoyable than a few other of her works!
I mentioned in my review of Pippi Longstockingthat there was a summer that my cousin and I read through all of the Astrid Lindgren books (or at least the ones that were shelved at the local library.) I could always remember the events in this one - but couldn't place which book it was. I spent the entire time reading this internally shouting, "I remember this scene." Just lovely.
Nog steeds in het kader van mijn missie "alle Astrid Lindgren boeken lezen", was het nu de beurt aan "Madicken".
Hoofdpersonage is de bijna 7-jarige Madicken, die samen met zusje Lisabet, haar ouders en een reeks huisdieren in Junibacken woont.
In korte hoofdstukjes, die zich afspelen over alle seizoenen heen en waarin veel Zweedse tradities aan bod komen, worden de avonturen van Madicken en Lisabet verteld.
Of zo is er de absolute wens van Madicken dat haar ouders "niet moe" zullen zijn met kerst - een niet mis te verstane boodschap in onze huidige tijden waarin de helft van de werknemers moe en gestresseerd thuis zit… Van genoten.
Madicken dan Lisabet anak-anak yang manis.
Madicken tujuh tahun sangat menyayangi Lisabet adiknya - lima tahun.
Piknik di atas atap gudang, hidung kemasukan kacang polong, seluncur sampai bukit apel yang jauh sekali dan masih banyak lagi :)Madicken dan Lisabet, kedua gadis cilik in membuatku teringat dan membayangkan "mereka" - yang belum sempat kukenal, hehe jadi curcol.
Pasti seperti itu ya apabila mempunyai dua anak perempuan yang tak terpaut jauh umurnya.Back to the book, bahasanya enak dibaca dan juga ada beberapa gambar ilustrasinya seperti buku Astrid Lindgren yang lain.
Tapi ntah kenapa buku mereka ini cepat sekali aku lahap habis :D
Maybe it loses something in the translation, or maybe it's really meant for 10-year-old girls, but I didn't care much for this.
I read it because it was mentioned in the Christmas book I just read, I Saw Mommy Kicking Santa Claus.
I did like the passage about not overdoing it at Christmas so as not to be too tired to enjoy things:Meg looked anxiously at Mother to see if she was tired, but fortunately Mother was happy and not at all tired.
It took me a while to remember the title, but this book... I must have read it a dozen times when I was a child. I believe it was for children between the age of 6 and 9, but even when I was well over 9 years old, I still borrowed this book sometimes from the library.I don't remember much of it anymore, all I know is that as a child, I loved it.
This is a great book by the author of Pippi Longstocking. Meg is a much more interesting character than Pippi--she's so real you could expect her to be the new girl at school. The stories are really funny, not silly like Pippi's are.
Meg herself is just not my cup of tea. She doesn't have the good sense God gave a turnip. However, I freely admit I also failed to appreciate Pippi Longstocking (by the same author), and I know many readers over the years have found both girls charming.
Heimwee naar de tijd dat ik dit las.
This kids book is ageless and travels through period of times. It sure has some good values to be learnt to kids these days
This is the book for children of all time.
Very enjoyable realistic fiction. I still have hopes of reading the UK translation (Mardie), but while I don't know what I'm missing, this was quite good. Domanska's illustrations weren't her best. Too empty.
הספר הזה הוא אחד הטובים מבין ספרי. אני אהבתי אותו כי הוא מאוד משעשע, את הספר קראתי על פני שבועיים וחצי בערך כי יש לו 300 עמודים לכל הפחות. אני אהבתי את הרפתקאותיה של מדיקן הקטנה.
הספר הזה הוא אחד הטובים מבין ספרי. אני אהבתי אותו כי הוא מאוד משעשע, את הספר קראתי על פני שבועיים וחצי בערך כי יש לו ‭‭‭‭‭300‬‬‬‬‬ עמודים לכל הפחות. אני אהבתי את הרפתקאותיה של מדיקן הקטנה.
Jo, jo. Čtyřletá dcera mi to hodila na hlavu, ale mně se to líbilo :D
3,5 *
מאוד ילדותי אבל חביב.
A sweet tale about family, love, religion, childhood, and all things in fluff, glitter, and gooey-ness. Cuteness category: soft and cotton candy-like.
Underbart underfundiga och värmande och roliga - vilken fantastisk berättare hon var hon Astrid Lindgren. Missade det här med Madicken & Lisabet helt när jag var liten, men bättre sent än aldrig.
While Longstocking is a lot of fun to read, the thing about Mischievous Meg is that she is real, and the conflicts she faces and the choices she makes have a basis in reality.
This book, while not full of the bizarre twists and turns of Longstocking's sometimes creepy contempt for and injury of adults, does say something about the real relationships and frustrations children have with their own imaginations and limitations.We enjoyed it very much, and perhaps my favorite interaction went something like this after Meg jumped off the wood shed and was bloodied and unresponsive:Me: so, what do you think happened?Son: She fell and got hurt!M: you were right, then!

Only 139 pages long, but was hard to get through. The book was written by the same author as Pippi Longstocking. The book definitely does not live up to its name. There are only two really interesting and funny stories in the whole book: When Alfred makes Meg think she is clairvoyant and can see ghosts, and when Alfred makes Meg think she sold her sister to a slave-trader. Both of these had Meg as the butt of the joke, and Alfred as the mischievous mastermind. I guess it was sort of Ramona the Pest-ish, but not as good.
I've read this before, probably borrowed from school library, and the image of madita jumping from the roof with an umbrella is unforgetable. Btw, I can't remember if that's also what happen in "what katy did", did she jump or fall down from the swing?What I found a bit uncomfortable is that the mother doesn't approve of her befriending neighbour nilsson. Of course her mom's thought of protecting her from the not-so-ideal family condition is understandable. But would it be best to give her a limited view of the world?
