https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23512999-the-bazaar-of-bad-dreams
This book is a big old chunk...and so worth the price of admission.I've never thought of Stephen King as a straight up horror author.
(Previously published as an ebook)Jimmy Golding hadn't believed in monster cars since he saw that movie Christine as a kid, but he believed that sometimes monsters could lurk in cars.*4 stars*Premium Harmony A couple that has been married over ten years arguing over simple life happenings.
(Granta)*3.5 stars*Bad Little Kid This was one of my favorites in the book.
I'm not even a big baseball fan and this one was one of my favorites in the book.
Yet another wonderful collection of short stories, some with twists and turns you simply don’t see coming. Plus, it features autobiographical comments on when, why and how he came to write (or rewrite) each story.
I’m no marketing guru, but I think this may be a clue as to why the publishing industry is struggling so much these days.On to the review...Any long time Stephen King fan should be willing to admit that the man can shit the bed every once in awhile, and when he writes a real clunker of a novel then you’re stuck with that bad taste in your mouth until the next, hopefully better, one comes out.
So while I might have been rolling my eyes at the ending of Mile 81 or the general goofiness of the villain in Bad Little Kid the mood only lasted until I hit one of the better ones like Afterlife or Herman Wouk Is Still Alive.A lot of the stories have echoes to other King works.
4+ Stars Within the pages of the twenty stories presented in THE BAZAAR OF BAD DREAMS, there is some really great stuff and only four that I'd read previously, (that I enjoyed again) but the very best part of this collection (for me) were the secret tidbits of information SK discloses about himself and his life in the initial introduction and prior to each tale; for example, Dam!
"All things serve the tower." (need to get back to Roland!)HERMAN WOUK IS STILL ALIVE - 3 Stars - Two friends...a fun trip...worry...drinking...despair...speeding...Very Dark!UNDER THE WEATHER - 4 Stars - The dream....The stink....Oh No!BLOCKADE BILLY - 5 Stars - (re-read) Fun time at the "old" ballpark if you like revenge, murder, and the blade.
Not exactly a thrilling collection is The Bazaar of Bad Dreams.One of the main reasons why is because I have purchased a couple of these stories already, for $3.00 or $4.00, each.
It's just- it's also disappointing that the stories were not all that good.
I loved The Little Green God of Agony and a couple of the others, but not enough to make reading this entire collection worth the time or money.
I hate to say these things, because I love the King and have said in the past I would be happy to read his grocery list, but I guess now I'm rethinking even that.
Kids rock.Premium Harmony -Carver-like story with deep characterization, immediacy, and sudden death.
A bit forgettable.Bad Little Kid -Fascinating characters and creepy coincidences and a very cool build.
Fall in love with the characters only to be shown how ephemeral they are while simultaneously immortalizing them quite consciously.Under the Weather - Damn uplifting story about someone who keeps things around well after their "Best Fresh Date".
Still, I kept with it and by the end kinda wished I was given a "Bad News Bears" story with SK's twist from this little gem.
There were some stories here I loved, and some that, as some of Mr. King's more colorful characters might say, "Sucked the big one." I don't want to bog you down in Reviewland, so I'll just give a sentence or two for each, and an individual rating.
Five stars.The Dune - Glimmers of Duma Key. Liked but not loved.
Three stars.Bad Little Kid - I actually liked this one a lot.
(view spoiler)[ And whoever heard of a King short with a happy ending?
"Monster" a little weird, but did like the ending.
Or, more likely, hate a dog named Gandalf?
I don't really care about the stupidity of some of the people, lol, I just love the whole idea!
NEXTI liked this one because the son goes and gets his dad each week to go out to eat, his dad is slowly losing his memory.
And after all was said and done, pops just goes back to talking about something he remembers years ago :-) AND LAST ON MY LISTI really wanted someone to end this bad little kid, but this little kid is not what he seems, like you didn't figure that out!
This collection of previously published works, in itself, had a range like open arms – from eye-roll-warranting clunkers that never took off and seemed rather (dare I say it?) juvenile for such a master wordsmith to others that truly took my breath away and really explored the mental and emotional crevices of humanity in a way that was breathtakingly clear and surprising – similar to reaching the summit of a huge roller coaster and seeing the landscape around you for those vivid two seconds before being dragged back down again.
For some authors, creating a large body of work doesn't mean quality has to suffer.
If I had penny for every time I heard someone swearing off Stephen King because (Insert Title Here sucked), I'd have enough money to buy a masterpiece like THE BAZAAR OF BAD DREAMS.
But in this author's humble opinion, those who've forsaken or have not been reading King are missing some of the best work of his career.
For those of you still reading King--for you Constant Readers--you've already experienced these stories or you someday will.
There are many authors in the world, and I hope you find one who brings you the same kind of happiness Stephen King brings me.
This is the thing with Stephen King, he can make me enjoy things that I normally don't (short stories), but there's one thing that he didn't change, and that's my dislike of poetry.
I'm hoping this would change in the future though.Just like the last collection of short stories I've read, I'm not going to do an in depth review of every story.
I'm just going to talk about the three stories that I enjoyed a lot, considering I gave this a 4-star rating.
It's an amazing piece of work by King, and I can't believe that this is just a short story.
A goodly collection of short stories written by the master tale spinner, Stephen King.
Inside these pages you will come across an insomniac with the ironic name of Mrs. Reston, a sandbar like no other, a creepy abandoned rest stop, a bad little kid who sports one of those horrible beanie caps with the propeller on top, a remembrance of a Halloween from long ago.
Each offering is prefaced with a short word from Stephen King telling of how the idea of the story came to him.
Thoroughly enjoyed every one of these little look-sees into his creative mind.
Not really a beginning, or a climax, or an end.Batman and Robin Have an Altercation - 5 Stars -Fantastic little story - we get to know the characters fast and there is an unexpectedly touching (and gruesome) twist.
And, I found the twist satisfying!The Dune - 4.5 Stars - Dark, twisted, mysterious - just when you think you know where the story is headed, King gives you a bit of a shock and a wink.Bad Little Kid - 4 Stars - Another creepy revenge story.
King is really hitting the "What would you do?" with this story collection.Obits - 5 Stars - unique and creepy idea!
But, if you don't mind the ending - and it should have become obvious by now that if there is one thing Stephen King cannot write well, then that's endings - this is a strong story about some interesting characters.Even though King stole one of his own ideas, I can forgive him for that, because this entertaining story made up for a funny hour of reading.2) Premium Harmony (3/5 stars)A short and simple story which managed to stun me with the sadness it made me feel.
Desde historias conmovedoras que muestran la cara más sentimental de King hasta otras que son tan perturbadoras que recomiendo leerlas de día, The Bazaar of Bad Dreams se ha posicionado como un libro intenso y tormentoso de principio a fin.Algo que debo mencionar es que King explica de dónde salieron las ideas para cada relato.
Como si me estuviese contando un secreto.Estos son los trabajos presentes:Mile 81: Hace rato que tenía ganas de leer este cuento.
Es algo repetitivo en la mitad y por eso se me hizo un poco pesado, sin embargo, el entretenimiento está asegurado.
I think every time I review a Stephen King book, I write something about how he is a much better writer when he isn’t doing horror.
Where this collection of short stories excels is when King introduces the next story to the reader.
A fun story about baseball that ultimately gets way outta control.
Another issue I had at times, and I’ve found in other books is that the villains always come across as way too over the top.
King has some really awesome short stories and novellas out there, and a few are sprinkled into this collection.
Luckily for me, I’d only read three of them (Blockade Billy / Mile 81 / Morality), so there was not a lot of overlap.A few of my favourites include the above mentioned Kindle-centric story UR – which despite initially turning me off due to its blatant product tie-in (first published as a promotional story for the Kindle Singles brand) it managed to shine as a truly original bit of storytelling.
I didn't even read what it was about until I got home(when I'm in a book buying frenzy I'm dangerous) I was very pleased to find out it was collection of stories.
The Dune - I love a story with a sick twist ending.A Death - An unexpected favorite Morality -My grandmother used to say that Greed was the death of morality Afterlife- Should be a movie or a tv show Ur- Has something to do with The Dark Tower series and inspired me to buy the first 3 books.Obits- Should also be a movie or a tv show Not Favorites: The Bone Church and Tommy- I don't like poetry not even poetry written by Stephen King.
If you're still here, let's rap."Mile 81" is the first tale and one of those rare King stories I did not read during its standalone release.
"Bad Little Kid" is likely my favorite story in the entire collection.
Stephen King is not the best poet."Morality" is one of my favorite kinds of tales.
It is the longest and more original of the previous three like it, and my third favorite tale in the collection."Drunken Fireworks" is the second of the two stories I had previously read.
Εξαιρετική έκδοση, θελκτικότατο εξώφυλλο και μια σειρά διηγημάτων για κάθε γούστο από τον ένα και μοναδικό Stephen Kıng.
Σίγουρα όχι το πιο αντιπροσωπευτικό του έργο θα μπορούσες να το χαρακτηρίσεις με μια πρώτη ανάγνωση ως αρπαχτή παρόλο που ο βασιλιάς των ιστορίων τρόμου και μυστηρίου έχει αποδείξει ότι μπορεί να γράψει και να γράψει καλά όσο και αν έχει μεγαλώσει.
Πολύ έξυπνη η ιδέα των εισαγωγικών σημειωμάτων από τον συγγραφέα πριν από κάθε ιστορία.
Οσο αφορα τις ιστορίες αυτές καθαυτές με κάποιες βαρέθηκα για να μια ειλικρινής, κάποιες άλλες μου φάνηκαν πολύ απλές για να τις έχει γράψει ο Κινγκ, σε κάποιες άλλες ήθελα κάτι ακόμα και κάποιες μου άρεσαν πολύ ειδικά ο τρόπος που επέλεξε για να τις διηγηθεί.
It was also the last story in the book and felt like such a great way to end this collection.
This one felt the most like classic King.
It was also a well done story, and from that intro- and the first few lines, you do know how it ends, but still- I did indeed, enjoy the journey.Other favorites included: “Obits” about a man who writes mean obituaries about living people that eventually come true.
The ending I didn’t see coming and that’s why I mention it here.There was also some poetry included in this book- and those were probably my least favorite sections.
*3.5 Stars*It's always an event when a new Stephen King short story collection is released. Much of his best material comes in the short form and he's proven time and again to be one of the best short story writers working these days. I adored his previous collection,  Just After Sunset , and I couldn't wait to jump into this one! I had read about a third of the stories when they were previously published, including the two novellas in the collection, the inventive and entertaining magic Kindle
*3.5 Stars*It's always an event when a new Stephen King short story collection is released.
There were a few new stories that I enjoyed and which read like classic King shorts: "The Dune" (which had a nifty ending), "Obits," and "Bad Little Kid," all of which would fit snugly right in the middle of his Skeleton Crew collection.Some of the others were less enjoyable, with King's occasional tendency toward disappointing endings on display.
But as I mentioned, a collection of new King stories is always a big deal.
It's been like this for years, but you know you'll watch him when he comes up for the next at bat.
You know who you are.I've read three stories in the book so far (I stumbled across an advance copy), and can tell you that they are awful, by far the worst that Stephen King has written in the last twenty or so years, and that's saying a lot, because there have been some stinkers.There will be spoilers in this review, but if you're a King fan, they will spoil nothing for you.
I won't bother you with details of the second story, other than to say it makes the first look like Hemingway.
This writer has a special place in our literati as not just a writer of the scary and creepy, but also a keen observer of who we are right now, his characterizations are indelibly spot on and remarkable.Some of the work that I especially liked include:"Batman and Robin Have an Altercation" is a favorite, not magical realism but rather King’s own blend of horrific realism.
“Afterlife” is reminiscent of the 1991 Albert Brooks film Defending your Life “Ur”, perhaps my favorite, is thematically similar to Blake Crouch’s 2016 novel Dark Matter, has elements of Poul Anderson’s time travel stories and also references King’s own Dark Tower series.
Despite that inconvenience it was awesome how King pulled it off and shows an interesting conception of death.Ur - ★★★★: An English teacher accidentally buys a Kindle that let him read books that some authors wrote in other worlds.
In my opinion this is the best story of this collection, it shows an interesting concept but the ending wasn't so great hence the four stars.Drunken Fireworks - ★★★★: A brute Yankee and his mother (both alcoholics) becomes accidentally rich and each Fourth of July spend a lot of money on pyrotechny.
Well, Vice-versa Batman.The Dune - The Judge has been visiting this little island just off the shore of his home all his life - for a hell of a good reason.
A story that builds in reverse of that old March saying: “In like a lamb, out like a lion”.Drunken Fireworks - In the prologue King says, “humor and horror are Siamese twins”.
It's all in the wording – the trumpet goes: Waaaaah!
The story doesn't have a whole lot of words, just enough to leave you wanting more – and maybe a desire to visit The Stand.
I wish Stephen King would do a short story collection each year, because it always seems like too long to wait between volumes!
A very original look at the Grim Reaper come to think of it.Little Green God of Agony was very much traditional King horror, which is a good thing.That Bus is Another World is a new take on a classic ghost story trope.Obits was another King type tale.
If you liked that one, you'll probably like this one.Drunken Fireworks was comedy, but enjoyable.Summer Thunder was an end of the world tale, something Stephen King has done several times before.
I think there comes a point of time in your life when you realise you've read too much Stephen King, and that point for me is now.
Like I wanted to burn it piss me off.
Mile 81 was a total waste of time, and any seasoned King fan would agree with me on that.
were all your run of the mill King stories, so I guess I enjoyed them.
But like I said, I've read too many of his works, and I really don't think anything he writes can surprise me anymore.
If haven't read as many as I have, though, you might just like it.
يحكي كنج أنه بينما كان يتسوق إذا التقى بإمرأة تعرفت عليه: "ها، أنت ذلك المؤلف الذي يكتب قصصاً مرعبة" "نعم أنا هو""لكنني لا أحب هذا النوع من القصص، بل أحب النوع الرائع الملهم مثل (الخلاص من شوشانك)""أنا من كتب هذه القصة أيضا""كلا لم تكتبها أنت"وهكذا فإن هذه المجموعة القصصية المؤلفة من 20 قصة لم تحتوي إلا على القليل من الرعب.
على العموم كانت زيارة جيدة لكاتب ممتاز لم أقرأ له منذ فترة طويلة جدا، حتى أنني عندما وضعت هذه المجموعة بين بقية كتب كنج بدت لي النسخ الأخرى عتيقة متيبسة وكأنها تحولت إلى أشباح هي الأخرى.
Therefore, it's no wonder there are voices that suggest that The Bazaar of Bad Dreams is actually little more than a snatch.Snatch or not, fans of the King will find here a fair share of what they know and love and more than a few let downs as well.
If I had to choose one that made me nostalgic King-wise, I'd go with Mile 81.
I wouldn't suggest The Bazaar to non-fans because you have to have a thing for King's writing in order to like it.
