https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13324841-son
no no no no no no no No No No No NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NONONONONONONONONONONONONONO  NO , Lois Lowry!   NO.  No. This cannot be how you chose to end the quartet. I am flabbergasted and bereft and... cheated. I feel cheated. In the same way Suzanne Collins ruined The Hunger Games trilogy in its crummy final act, so too has Lowry with Son. Despite being weaker efforts, Gathering Blue and Messenger felt like stepping stones toward an ending that would seamlessly combine disparate storylines. I
In the same way Suzanne Collins ruined The Hunger Games trilogy in its crummy final act, so too has Lowry with Son. Despite being weaker efforts, Gathering Blue and Messenger felt like stepping stones toward an ending that would seamlessly combine disparate storylines.
(view spoiler)[BetweenClaire escapes in a cargo boat once the society begins to collapse (presumably because Jonas has escaped with Gabe and has unleashed memories on the community).
Something happens to the cargo boat and Claire is lost at sea, eventually washing up on the shores of a village that sits at the base of a towering cliff.
You should fight Evil so you can continue to be Good.No shit, Lois Lowry.
What happened to the original community when Jonas, Gabe, and Claire left?3.
Did Lame Einar heal from the destroying of the Trademaster, too?4.
Did Einar heal and then climb out to find Claire?5.
Did Claire and Einar get married?6.
What happened on the boat ride that made Claire come to the coastal community?
What was the point of Book II of Claire's journey if she doesn't get with Einar in the end?
You would think I didn't like the book by all of the questions I'm asking, but I'm asking these questions because I was so completely wrapped up in The Giver series.
2.5 starsI'm done. I'm so done right now.This one dragggggged. The answers we've been waiting for since book 1 were never truly given and we were forced to watch (yet another) set of side characters become the mains. This time we follow Claire - a birth mother from Jonas's original city. Much like Jonas, she doesn't take the emotion-suppressing pills and thus develops the ability to love. And she loves her son fiercely.  She would die, Claire realized, before she would give up the love she felt
This time we follow Claire - a birth mother from Jonas's original city.
She would die, Claire realized, before she would give up the love she felt for her son.
Claire frantically searches from her son, eventually climbing onto a nearby barge to get away from her monstrous city.
A storm rolls in and the last thing she remembers is looking for...something.This whole book felt incredibly convenient.
during that time Gabe is growing and by the time she gets to him, he's old enough to make other things in the plot happen.
At least...we find out what happened to the characters from book 1...kind of.
I love Lowry and I love the Giver.
I think it lends itself to such great discussion about what it means to be a human being, a community.
I also love the companion books: Gathering Blue and Messenger.
I especially love the Messenger and the profound message of what it takes to overcome evil.
Felt like Lowry was addressing long standing questions about details concerning how the community functioned.I give this four stars for the reason that it serves as a satisfying conclusion.
But...the part of Lowry's writing that I adore is missing.
But it also felt so much like a long awaited reunion.
Contrived much?- Einar speaking about his father:"I cooked for him like a wife and washed his clothes and was a wife in other ways too terrible to mention." O___O Thank goodness this book is ages 10+, I'd hate to have a 9-year-old ask me what this means.- Claire has never seen colors before.
So you'd expect Einar to warn Claire, "EVEN IF YOU WANT TO MAKE A DEAL WITH TRADEMASTER DON'T BECAUSE HE CHOPPED MY FREAKING FOOT OFF JUST BECAUSE I DIDN'T WANT TO TRADE WITH HIM!!!
Later, when Claire makes a deal, Trademaster wants to trade for her youth.
I love The Giver.
It was the book that inspired me to read and made me want to write.
I liked Gathering Blue, wish I didn't read The Messenger, and now wish I could take back time with The Son. I spent money on it, and I want it back.
That does not mean that suddenly, at the end of the series, you get a personification of evil that gambles and deals like the devil.
The moral was fight evil?
She's training for the cliff!
That entire book just so we can fight a personification of evil?I feel cheated because there was no point to this.
Then I enjoyed Gathering Blue even more, except that it seemed that Lowry believed that her characters from the first book had survived, and were living in some sort of utopian village.
While I enjoyed the return, in this book, of The Giver's dystopia, her conclusions left me feeling that the hard "truths" of humanity she captured in the first two books - that things are more complicated than they first appear - has now been reduced to the banal cliche that love can heal all wounds.
I'm very disappointed that she couldn't handle the complications she introduced, even though these are not adult books.
Book one, The Giver, was suggested to me for reading by my son after he was required to read it for middle school language arts class.
I enjoyed the book and the book discussion with my son.
My sister Joni, a language arts teacher for many years, persuaded me to finish the book and find the link.
I enjoyed the trilogy but it needed an ending.
Imagine my delight when Goodreads friend and co-worker, Ellen, told me about Son. This is a quick read for adults but delivers what anyone who enjoyed the previous book is expecting, a few twists and turns all leading to...well I can't tell you, now can I...
The middle book felt like TOTAL FILLER.
Completely unnecessary and could have just been somehow absorbed into the rest of the book.It started out good.
We go back to the strange Stepford utopian society from book 1.
(view spoiler)[So Claire trades her "youth" to find her son.
We never get to see Claire (view spoiler)[with her son!
*facepalm* (hide spoiler)]Started strong, then fizzled out bigtime, and is one of those vague, open-ended books.
:/And now that I'm thinking about it, why could Claire (view spoiler)[see colors in the The Giver society where she started when no one else could except Jonas?
(hide spoiler)]But, The Giver was a fantastic book.
I had found "The Giver" to be a thought-provoking, well-written book -- especially Lowry's portrayal of a community of chilling banality and the ambiguous ending -- and I was hoping to see this world flushed out in her subsequent books.
It was too pat -- especially part 3 I wasn't keen on the supernatural elements and couldn't believe Claire & Gabe's actions (or inactions).I'm also very troubled by Lowry's math -- this whole "birthmother" thing doesn't add up and I wonder why an editor never caught it.Since there are 50 "newchildren" in each and every birth year, each class must essentially reproduce in the same proportion i.e..
The series begins to feel like it pulls too heavily from Harry Potter and the Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe with Evil incarnate and biblical themes (particularly in Messenger).
Following on from the sacrificed son in Messenger, the battle Gabe wages against the Trademaster again confuses me.
I think I just felt a sense of disappointment that the three books that followed from The Giver didn't feel like part of the original thought behind that world, but a business decision tapping into some current trends.
The story begins with Claire, a girl of fourteen who lives in the same Community as Jonas (from "The Giver").
Soon Claire makes the decision to stop at nothing in order to find her child.
A decision that will set her on a collision course with Jonas.While "Son" may be considered part of "The Worlds of Lois Lowry" trilogy (now a quartet) it is unquestionably the conclusion to "The Giver" (thus making the two books a duo).
The book is quite a bit longer than "The Giver" and is divided into three sections each spanning the length of one leg of Claire's journey.
Like I can feel your thoughts, dude.-I bet a dude who was, like, really evil would smell evil.-I could beat that evil dude with just good thoughts, man.
Good vibes.-My mom is creeping me out, dude.-I got so high last week, I tried to climb the rock wall and fell and almost broke my legs.-We should go to the pet store and get a bird, man.
A cool bird.-Babies are like biology factory products.
Just products, dude.-I bet everyone really, deep down, has some sort of superpower.
Most people haven't discovered theirs yet, though.-What if, like, we couldn't see colors?
This was a good end to the series, and my favourite book of the series too. I liked that things finally came together, I liked how things from the previous books that I hadn’t understood were finally explained, and I liked that we got a kind-of happy ending!(view spoiler)[ Yay that Claire and Gabe were reunited! And yay that the trademaster was finally dealt with! (hide spoiler)]6.5 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4 stars. THIS BOOK. ASDFHKSLFJAJSDS. DO YOU EVEN KNOW HOW LONG I'VE BEEN WAITING TO SAY THAT I ACTUALLY UNDERSTAND THE GIVER SERIES??? Like…years. YEARS, BRO. But I'm still not exactly sure I understand it 100% (lololol) which is why I'm not giving 5 stars here BUT! IT WAS SO GOOD. And the ending was amazing I was smiling so hard. :') OKAY LET'S MAKE A LIST BEFORE I RUN AWAY WITH MY EMOTIONS. LOVELIES: Everything?? HAHA SO MUCH FOR NOT RUNNING AWAY WITH MY EMOTIONS. This was a good book. It was
DO YOU EVEN KNOW HOW LONG I'VE BEEN WAITING TO SAY THAT I ACTUALLY UNDERSTAND THE GIVER SERIES???
I loved watching Claire's character start off kind of oatmeal and then transform into deeply caring, empathetic, courageous heroine.
Like I said before, all three "parts" in this book had TOTALLY DIFFERENT FLAVORS.
I LOVE HIM TOO MUCH.THE ENDING.
But we always know what's going on (unless you didn't read the first three books I guess) so idk I just felt like we could have cut to the chase a lot sooner.
All in all, I loved this series.
Claire is the mother of the baby Gabe, with whom Jonas had fled the community.
As soon as Claire finds out that Jonas has left the community with Gabe, Claire escapes too, aboard a boat, which ends up wrecking during a storm.
It is about the seven years Claire spends in this remote village, slowly recovering all her memory lost in the shipwreck.The third part is where Claire is expected to find her son, but it becomes weird, with supernatural elements, the devil dressed as a human, etc.
"The Giver" is a very good book, which left me and so many readers wondering if Jonas and Gabe had ever made it or not.
Son brings us back to the original community we read about in The Giver, and tells us the story from the perspective of Water Claire and ties up the questions about the place where Jonas and Gabe were born.Everyone in the community is assigned a ‘job’ at the age of 13.
‘Vessels’ carried ‘Products’ (um, babies) and at 14 Claire produced her one and only product in the form of a Son. There was an issue with the birth and she was relieved of her vessel duties, but she never forgot about her son and was determined to find him at any cost.I loved The Giver, and really enjoyed the Messenger and The Gathering Blue, so I was very pleased to find out there would be a final chapter in the story.
The Giver came out in 1993 and the final book, Son, came out in 2012.
I think Son had pacing issues, and it broke my heart a little, but it was a satisfying conclusion.
I still think my favourite book is Messenger and Mattie.
We eventually get more from Gabe's POV, and I wish there'd been more from him, because this tough little stubborn kid is way more interesting than Claire doing pushups and balancing exercises so she can climb a mountain.BUT WE FINALLY GET LOADS OF ANSWERS.
I think this book would make all the mothers cry, too, by the way.
Claire finds her child and from that moment forward her live changes.Her child, of course, is Gabe, the baby who comes to live with Jonas’ family in The Giver.The book is divided into three distinct parts.
Part three takes place some years later in a third community that has achieved relative peace, with the exception of a dark force known as The Tradesman who stands between Claire and her son.Each section felt like a complete novella.
Their love story is unusual and unrequited and beautifully rendered.Like many other final books in series, Son dips into philosophical waters and Lowry makes eloquent statements about desire versus love, service versus sacrifice, and destiny.
The remaining books attempt to continue this story, beginning with the development of Kira, who lives in a Community that is extremely different from the one Jonas was raised in.
It is later discovered that after escaping his Community, Jonas starts a refuge called Village, which is the setting for book three, and partially book four.
(weird)And books two and three, as you'll find out at the end of this book, were completely pointless in comparison to the larger story that was happening.
(annoying)And after the disappointment of discovering that books two and three were pointless, we find out that the larger story that was happening is actually just really bad.
I really liked this, but I didn't love it. The Writing and World-Building I really liked how this book goes into some more mature themes, like motherhood, apathy, abuse, and depression, but found that in the third part, where it should have climaxed and been at its literary peak, I found it somewhat lacking. There were some characters whose arcs weren't really completed. I did, though, really appreciate the return of the Trademaster, though he did feel rather stereotypical and cliché. The Charac
I really liked this, but I didn't love it.
There were some characters whose arcs weren't really completed.
The Characters
She made an excellent protagonist for the majority of the book.Einar: I seriously freaking love Einar.
I just want him to be happy and loved!
❤❤❤Gabe: He was a bit too similar to Matty to really feel like anything special, though I did like him.Alys and Benedikt: They were so cute!!!The Trademaster: A little tropey, a little Trumpy...
I liked it enough, and it worked as a suitable conclusion to the Giver, but I was still rather disappointed.
If I stop and think/critique SON, there are things I didn't understand or care for ...
It's a unique experience reading about events when you already know what is coming up.The second portion of the book (Between) is ok.
It's interesting again to be reminded of the things the "community" lacked, as Claire is introduced (as Jonas was) to such things as color and music ...
Again, as mentioned before (and I mentioned in reviews of the other books), if you really stop and think about certain things, there are portions that don't really make sense and leave you wondering.
I understand that Lowry was trying to create a book that could stand alone, therefore necessitating the reiteration of some things that fans of the series would find redundant, but the problem was that even though Lowry included these things so it could work as a stand alone I felt like she was assuming her readers wouldn't be reading it as a stand alone, so these reiterations were poorly written, boring, and with a lackluster prose that made me feel as if I was reading some bad fan fiction for "The Giver".
Which brings us to the last part of the book which takes place in the same community as "Messenger" where Claire is randomly old, everything is rushed, poorly thought out, and haphazardly tied up with an awkward bow.
เปนหนังสือปิดทายชุด The Giver ทีเชือมทังสามเลมแรกเขาดวยกัน ความทีหนังสือชุดนีมีความหมายเชิงสัญลักษณแฝงอยูเยอะมาก คือถาไมสังเกตใหดีจะมองขาม ถาอานแบบวิเคราะหไตรตรองมากจะมึน แตกมีประเดนทีเราชอบมากกคือ ตรงทีนักเขียนพยายามจะสือความหมายตอนทีแคลรพยายามตามหาลูกชายของเธอวา ความเปนแมอาจตองแลกมาดวยความสาวความเยาววัย แตตองสูญเสียตรงนันไปหากเธออยากไดลูกชายของเธอเราอานนีรูสึกละเลียด ถึงเนือเรืองมันจะไมหวือหวาอะไรเหมือนนิยายดิสโทเปียสมัยใหม และการทีมีนิยายเลมนีออกมาอาจจะไปหักลบความลึกลับของตอนจบอันลือเลืองในเล
เป็นหนังสือปิดท้ายชุด The Giver ที่เชื่อมทั้งสามเล่มแรกเข้าด้วยกัน ความที่หนังสือชุดนี้มีความหมายเชิงสัญลักษณ์แฝงอยู่เยอะมาก คือถ้าไม่สังเกตให้ดีจะมองข้าม ถ้าอ่านแบบวิเคราะห์ไตร่ตรองมากจะมึน แต่ก็มีประเด็นที่เราชอบมากก็คือ ตรงที่นักเขียนพยายามจะสื่อความหมายตอนที่แคลร์พยายามตามหาลูกชายของเธอว่า ความเป็นแม่อาจต้องแลกมาด้วยความสาวความเยาว์วัย แต่ต้องสูญเสียตรงนั้นไปหากเธออยากได้ลูกชายของเธอเราอ่านนี่รู้สึกละเลียด ถึงเนื้อเรื่องมันจะไม่หวือหวาอะไรเหมือนนิยายดิสโทเปียสมัยใหม่ และการที่มีนิยายเล่มนี้ออกมาอาจจะไปหักลบความลึกลับของตอนจบอันลือเลื่องในเล่มแรกให้หายวับไปกับตา เพราะข้อสงสัยที่ใครหลายคนเคยตั้งเอาไว้ในตอนจบเล่มหนึ่งว่าโจนาสไปไหน ? เขาตายหรือเปล่า ? และเก๊บมีชีวิตรอดต่อไปไหม ? ... เล่มนี้คือตอบโจทย์ทุกอย่าง ถ้าใครอยากคงความคลาสสิคของ The Giver เอาไว้ เราไม่แนะนำให้อ่านเล่มนี้ เพราะอย่างที่บอก มันจะไม่มีข้อโต้แย้งโต้เถียงใดๆของหนังสือเล่มนี้เหลือไว้ให้ discuss กันอีกต่อไป แต่ถ้าใครอยาก complete นิยายชุดนี้ให้หายคาใจ เราก็แนะนำให้อ่านโลด(view spoiler)[แคลร์ให้กำเนิดบุตรชายแต่เธอไม่มีโอกาสได้เห็นหน้าเขาเธอก็ถูกส่งไปทำหน้าที่อื่นในชุมชนเสียก่อน แต่แคลร์ยังหาโอกาสที่จะกลับมาดูแลเก๊บอยู่เรื่อยๆ จนกระทั่งวันที่เด็กชายถูกประเมินว่ามีความผิดปกติและถูกส่งไปกำจัด นั่นทำให้วันที่โจนาสหลบหนีออกไปจากหมู่บ้านและได้พาเก๊บออกไปได้แคลร์ล่องเรือมาพร้อมความทรงจำที่สูญหายไปยังหมู่บ้านแห่งหนึ่งที่อยู่ไกลออกไป ทางออกจากสถานที่แห่งนี้คือหน้าผาสูงชัน เมื่อแคลร์เริ่มเรียนรู้สิ่งต่างๆที่เธอไม่เคยรู้มาก่อนมากขึ้นเรื่อยๆ เธอจำเรื่องราวของเด็กน้อยในอ้อมกอดของเธอได้ เธอจึงขอให้ไอนาร์ช่วยเธอปีนเขาออกไปจากที่นี่ จนกระทั่งวันที่เธอขึ้นสู่ยอดเขาและได้ทำข้อตกลงกับผู้เชี่ยวชาญการแลกเปลี่ยนที่ยื่นข้อเสนอให้เธอได้พบกับลูกสาวเพื่อแลกกับความสาวของเธอไป แคลร์ตกลง นั่นจึงทำให้เธอกลายเป็นหญิงชรายามที่เธอได้พบกับโจนาสและเก๊บ ลูกชายของเธออีกครั้งแคลร์กำลังจะตาย เมื่อเก๊บได้รู้ความจริง โจนาสได้บอกกับเขาว่าเก๊บต้องทำลายผู้เชียวชาญการแลกเปลี่ยนลงเสีย เก๊บจึงล่องเรือไปหาผู้เชียวชาญการแลกเปลี่ยนและใช้พรสวรค์ที่เขามีชนะได้ในที่สุด แคลร์ฟื้นตัวและกลับมาสาวอีกครั้งในขณะที่เธอเปิดประตูเพื่อต้อนรับการกลับบ้านของลูกชายเธอ (hide spoiler)]
It started off OK, looking at the Community in the perspective of a young, powerless girl and a Birthmother no less who got to lose her child.
The ending happens too fast and there are things that could have been cut out to make the story better and tighter.Also, I'm sorry, but there was NO REASON NOT TO TELL GABE THAT YOU'RE HIS MOTHER!
I hate when writers introduce some way of finding out all the answers and there is not a good reason for them to just do this.
AUGH!This book could have been so MUCH BETTER!

Preface: I was weary to begin this book knowing full well it was the official end of a new-found and much beloved series.
It's beautiful, is my overall point, and I could have happily read Lowry's meticulously crafted 393 pages in a single sitting.This book is a brand new character you're not so sure you can trust followed by the realization said character is lovely and strong and will fight the whole book long.
It's me, crying and wanting to shank an entire premise.This book is compelling, well done, a solid finish to what is quite possibly the most beautiful series I've thus stumbled upon.[Five stars for water, water everywhere, and so much of it to drink.]
★★★Son is the fourth and final installment in Lois Lowry's young adult, dystopian series titled The Giver Quartet. I enjoyed seeing how all the books in this series finally tied together. I was definitely wondering for a while why the series was set up the way it was, but it all came together in the end. Overall, I liked this book and I enjoyed the series as a whole. It's doesn't make my favorites list but that's just personal preference. If you enjoy young adult, dystopian novels then I would r
★★★½Son is the fourth and final installment in Lois Lowry's young adult, dystopian series titled The Giver Quartet.
I enjoyed seeing how all the books in this series finally tied together.
Overall, I liked this book and I enjoyed the series as a whole.
It's doesn't make my favorites list but that's just personal preference.
If you enjoy young adult, dystopian novels then I would recommend this series...if only to read the stories that gave birth to the dystopian trend that is among us today.
My favorite quote:“Fear dims when you learn things.”
For Son, I love the main character, Claire.
Lowry has a wonderful way of offering up themes that need to be considered and discussed, and doing it without flash, without titillation, without sentimentality, but instead through very human characters and universal deep longings that we recognize and understand.Reuniting with characters from The Giver, Gathering Blue, and Messenger, and to see how their lives had turned out 15 years later, was fun.
But in the end, I was left unmoved.
But Son is definitely a must-read for anyone who loves the world Lois Lowry created with The Giver.
At first I really enjoyed this, was glad to be back in Jonas' world and liked seeing it from a different POV.
But as it went on and I saw where the story was going I started to enjoy it less.
Over all I guess it was about as good as books 2 and 3.
It didnt add anything to story and actually pulled up old assumed resolved storylines instead of having its own.And I was really disappointed in the ending and that we dont find out what happened to Claire and Einar.
I can assume the best but I would have liked to see them reunited.
