https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33313.Kitchen_Confidential
Excellent, vivid read about life in restaurant kitchens. Very atmospheric and I feel like I learned a lot about a very specific culture.
My first exposure to Anthony Bourdain, via his show No Reservations, left me with with the sense of a true asshole who sneered down his nose with aging punk-rock disdain at people and things he deemed beneath him, and, honestly, it seemed like most people and things were beneath him.
He even goes so far as to point out that the only reason he is able to hang out with and talk to the Michelin-starred chefs he always admired from afar is because of his notoriety as author and TV host.This isn't some self-aggrandizing piece literary self-pleasuring.
I love food and I love hot sexy chefs with potty mouths.I remember first discovering Anthony Bourdain on the Food Network many years ago.
It was 3am and I was unable to sleep and here was this brooding, hot piece of ass chain smoking and touring Russia.
I never remembered his name but he haunted my dreams until I re-discovered him years later on the Travel Channel show, No Reservations.
He is a very good writer with a quit wit and he conveys a passion that touched my [fill in the blank] like no other.
In fact, he makes me wish I was a heartless carnivore like him.
Bourdain was a natural storyteller—not only did he use food to tell the stories he (and his bosses) wanted to create, but he also loved to talk about the ways the culinary world has changed through the years, how what restaurants serve (and what people eat) has changed, and how the role of the chef has changed with it.Unlike many memoirs, Bourdain was never afraid to admit his flaws, his transgressions, his pet peeves, all of which served to make him more human and make his story more compelling.
As a result, you will want to hop the next flight and travel the world visiting as many restaurants and trying as many types of food as you can.Other parts will disgust you and leave you nauseous.
You will never look a restaurant food the same way - and may not want to eat it at all unless you get a good look at the kitchen and the people preparing the food.Bourdain doesn't pull any punches talking about the life of the kitchen staff fueled by drugs, alcohol, sexual innuendo, sarcasm, anger, impatience, and tyranny.
R.I.P.
Blah, blah, blah I'm an asshole blah, blah, blah yay, drugs blah, blah, fuck everyone, pork chop, fuck you all, mince, veal, drugs, blood, blah, blah, blah.Maybe you can tell, I am less than impressed.
I don't feel too bad writing this review, because Bourdain certainly never minces his words (culinary pun intended;-) I was expecting entertaining anecdotes, of course not PC, knowing Bourdain, but frankly I was bored most of the time and started skimming two thirds of the way through.
maybe this is great for really huge fans of the chef, but I guess I'm not one of them, give me Nigella any day.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
“Good food is very often, even most often, simple food.”― Anthony Bourdain, Kitchen ConfidentialThere is a certain thrill to being the first person to reach the top of a mountain, the first to eat at a soon-to-be famous restaurant, the first to discover an author, a band, a new food or experience.
I might have seen Bourdain's books as I wandered through a bookstore.
My initial reaction to finishing this book is the same I get when I discover a fantastic new restaurant (Republica Empanada in Mesa, AZ) -- I want to take friends and family to it.
Anthony Bourdain has comprise a selection of personal essays about his life specifically in regards to his journey with the strenuous and punishing life of a Chef de Cuisine.
Read it if you are frequent restaurant connoisseur and you want to expand your knowledge of the behind the scenes dealings.
But most of all read if you are a fan of Anthony Bourdain, because this is the book that started it all and it's truly sad that we won't be able to experience his special brand of honest enthusiasm in the future.
If you are like me and love food, watching Top Chef and Food Channel, think that cooking is art, an outlet for creativity, consider chefs featured on such shows (including Anthony Bourdain) as super-sophisticated artists, you are up for a surprise with this book.
In his book, cooks are a dysfunctional lot - drug-addicted, unable to hold a "normal" job, people from the fringes of the society.
Only a few executive chefs in high-end restaurants have a luxury of being creative with the food they make.Besides the anecdotes about dysfunctional kitchen workers, Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly is a sort of biographical account of Bourdain's cooking career.
I'm not sure why I picked this up, I guess because I heard Bourdain was the "punk rock chef," but besides listening to the Sex Pistols and Velvet Underground while he cooked, there's not a whole lot else going on of a punk rock nature.
So now I'm watching like 3 hours of a guy I don't like, eating shit I don't care about, in places I'm not interested in going to.
I reread Kitchen Confidential in memory of Anthony Bourdain. I still can't believe he's gone.I enjoyed the book and smiled at Anthony's brash-yet-loveable style. Plus, it reminded me of my baby brother, who is also a chef. Highly recommended for restaurant workers and foodie fans.
I'm stalled out on recommendations for the home chef chapter, which I'd kind of like to finish.
Sure, for the first twenty-some years of my cooking life, I flattened and chopped with my chef's knife, but I confess the press I started using was perfect for garlic in homemade salad dressing.Overall, I think I would benefit more from his last book, the one that potentially offers more insight from an older, more worldly person, and from his later-career focus in food as a representation of culture.
The book's author is clearly impressed with having passed through the esteemed halls of Vassar College, yet prouder still of his hard knocks and rough-and-tumble street degree earned working for a slew of restaurants. Much of the book is spent describing the working stiffs in the culinary field and their wildly anti-social and anti-establishment behavior and greedy incompetent restaurant owners. The anecdotes were mildly amusing for the first hundred pages but tiresome by the end. If you're stuck on a plane with nothing else to read, go for it!
Bourdain's book ranges freely over his French childhood where he first got obsessed with food, his time at fry-shacks, grill bars, and the Culinary Institute of America which variously taught him to cook, his exceedingly checkered career as chef for a variety of restaurants both doomed and successful, and his observations on the underbelly of the restaurant biz.
Bourdain's macho testosteronal voice would be unbearable if he didn't make just as much fun of himself as he does of everyone else: he recounts stealing from restaurants in his youth, cheating through Chicken Stock class in the Culinary Institute, snorting cocaine on the job, not being able to cook worth a damn compared to his culinary idols, and in general being an asshole.
Non ho colto l’utilità e nemmeno il senso di alcune descrizioni di Bourdain, cito come esempi lo sperma sulle scarpe del suo aiutante Steven, e le scopate di Steven-versione-porno con Chuletita loca, mentre, fra un grugnito e un asmatico quasi-orgasmo, telefona all’amico e collega Manuel, per chiedere: “indovina che cosa sto facendo?”.
Non penso che molteplici e sovrabbondanti porzioni di sesso, alcol, droga, imprecazioni e violenze varie, consumate in cucina per mano di un’orda di disadattati, arricchiscano il menu e facciano effetto WOW!, anzi, già al secondo giro si rischia lo “sbadiglio da ripetizione”.
E il bicarbonato è finito.P.S. Sono una voce stonata.
So, I've finished reading Anthony Bourdain's book Kitchen Confidential, which is basically about all the craziness that goes on behind the scenes in the restaurant world.
As I started reading the book, I thought I'd be of one of two minds by the end: either I'd never want to eat out again, or I'd want to chuck the teaching career and become a chef.
However, what I would love to do is to figure out how to take Bourdain's Gonzo-style management and use it in teaching.
This really functions more as a collection of essays rather than a straightforward memoir, because although events happen in mostly chronological order, there are large gaps missing (for instance, in one chapter Bourdain discusses the time he worked at an Italian restaurant and learned to love Italian food, and in the next chapter he's describing a typical day at his job as head chef of Les Halles) and there's no clear narrative arc.
Unfortunately?, although I was not in the industry long enough to personally attest to its accuracy, I have full confidence in Bourdain's authority based on conversations with acquaintances whom have, as well as other research.
A chapter devoted to the lexicon of the kitchen, another to instruction on beautiful plating, one to Members of The Kitchen, another to the necessity of intimacy with the Sous-Chef (closer than a wife), one to a character named Adam-Last-Name-Unknown, one to a "Day In The Life" of a great chef, one to how anyone can appear to be a chef (provided one has interest in food, some intelligence, & an innate reasonable sense of flavor), one to what he calls The Wilderness Years, & seriously important "So You Want To Be A Chef?" Although, it is obvious to me that the entire thing is a "So You Want To be A Chef?" Part memoir, part diary, part expose, part journalism, part textbook, but always honest, straightforward, informational, and funny.
I enjoyed this book by Mr. Bourdain. I like his attitude.This is an entirely different world from what I live in. I've never worked in the food service industry, is it still like this nowadays? A world where you can never be sued for sexual harassment and foul language? I have a boring office job and this is so foreign to me.Because this is so far removed from my own experiences of the world - heck, I've never even been to New York and seldom eat at fancy restaurants - I liked it. It was fun. And eye opening.
That shows a lot of heart; most prickly people are kinda gooey in the middle, and I feel that Bourdain was like that too.A career in food is a hard, hard thing to do.
How hard it must get for a man who loved life as much as he did to decide it wasn't worth living anymore is beyond what I can imagine, and it makes me incredibly sad to think he took his own life.Four and a half stars, rounded down because I know a few of those chapters are old articles Bourdain wrote for various publications, and I think the book would hold itself together better if it had been a more continuous narrative.
But...I think I wanted to know more about the "behind the scenes" dirt on what can really go wrong in restaurants than what we were given.
There were a couple of little digs in this book (the "you're halfway to making that fuzzy little Emeril your bitch" comment made me snort), but nothing even remotely at the level to which I would have expected (maybe that was a publisher reign-in, who knows?) I've followed some of his past interviews and blog posts and have to admit to being far more amused than I should be over his petty jabs at Rachael Ray, Emeril and others.
I didn’t think that he really mattered much in the culinary world.
Most of the chefs that we see on TV either cook or get other people judged on ability to cook and/or perform in the kitchens.Anthony Bourdain wasn’t doing anything of that.
He succeeded in noteworthy profiling of American chefs/cooks and provided accordingly an awe-inspiring study of behaviour as well as dispositions, which are to be discerned in many American professional kitchens, “ insensitive to gender preference, and the gorgeous mosaic of an ethnically diverse workforce.” The culinary world appears to be the unruly kingdom of extreme personality types.
In his book “Kitchen Confidential” he showed an impressively deep understanding of human nature.
This was a good read, although I need a reread to give a full review. Bought recently a new copy for myself, with new sidenotes and the afterthoughts to be read, which gives another reread reason. :)
Hearing the late Bourdain's voice as he authored this book himself was an added treat! This book was a solid 3.5 stars for me. There were a lot of greta stories, but also some pomp that is well-known to be associated with Bourdain. Overall, It was a great and interesting insider look at a hectic restaurant kitchen and how much goes into getting everyone's food out whilenot stabbing your sous chef or waitstaff... ;0)
I read this at a key turning point in my life, and was one of those books that changed everything for me.
The culinary-school trained cooks in the restaurant commanded me to read this book when I was still just observing and volunteering (I later worked there until I moved away), and it solidified my love for an industry that I was already excited by because of my experiences.Anthony Bourdain may seem a bit extreme, but his tales of what really goes on in restaurants and among cooks is not that far off from my own experiences.
Bourdain promises to take you behind the scenes of the restaurant industry, which he certainly does - it's just that he only takes you to very specific restaurant environments that he has worked in and has directly helped shape, a revelation that he only gets to almost three-quarters of the way through the book.
At first, it seems like he gets it - his younger self really was an idiot - but it slowly becomes apparent that he’s still just as arrogant as before.
This is not the book you should read if you don't want to know who is cooking your food.
That may be due in no small part to the fact that I was reading this book as the new season of No Reservations started, so I might have just been on Bourdain overload.I wanted to enjoy this book more, but as much as it was full of great writing, excellent imagery, and unique insight into the world of restaurants, I just found myself more annoyed than excited by the book.I guess part of it was the fact that Bourdain seems to think that working all hours, miscreant geniuses, machisimo, and locker room humor are the sole province of kitchens.
The reality might be that you are better/smarter/cooler than the people you're talking to, but let us come to that conclusion ourselves.In the end, after wading through insults to vegetarians and people who like to order items on the side and pretty much anyone Mr. Bourdain has worked with (or for) in his restaurant career, as well as droning stories of drugs and sex, I found little of any substance in Kitchen Confidential.
It's great again at the end as he speaks about his second epiphany, his trip to Japan.
I liked best the parts where he speaks about his motivations, why he adores food and why he continues with this awful business.It's kind of boring in the middle when he starts dropping names and places and tries to be instructive to the reader about why one kitchen/chef/restaurant is better than another.I think you either love or hate Anthony Bourdain.
Took me a long time, too long, to listen to this...
I get distracted and can't hear and have to backtrack and it's a waste of time.
