https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24830.The_Illustrated_Man
Heinlein as a creepy old uncle who drinks too much at parties and who makes embarrassing comments, but who everyone likes in spite of his outdated ways – kind of a loveable rogue.
And all due respect to Fahrenheit 451, which is a fine novel, but I submit that Bradbury’s great contribution to literature arises from his short stories, he is a master of the medium.
Where Heinlein will go into great detail to explain the mathematical elements of a hyperspace warp drive and how it affects the space –time continuum, Bradbury would simply write, “and they got in the rocket and went to Mars.” Beautifully simple and imaginative.
Ray Bradbury was an absolute master storyteller whose writing was creative and full of moments of pure bitter irony: he was an imaginative genius, nothing more nothing less.
We think, I'm not a fool today.
It is the words of a man who feared for the future, who feared that one day stories would not be allowed such freedom.
It allowed Bradbury to enter any story he chose in here; they could be random and it wouldn’t overly matter.
The first few stories were AMAZING, and with the exception of a few more that I enjoyed later on, the rest of the stories were pretty boring.
Most of the stories also had very clear moral lessons, so they're great stories to read aloud (maybe not to small children, but I'm sure older kids would enjoy them).
My favorite stories are:-The Veldt-The Other Foot-The Rocket Man-The Last Night of the World (and this one is only a few pages long!)-The Fox and the ForestI wish that the Illustrated Man would have had a bigger part of the story (like he did at the beginning), but oh well.
"... he was a riot of rockets and fountains and people, in such intricate detail and color that you could hear the voices murmuring small and muted, from the crowds that inhabited his body. When his flesh twitched, the tiny mouths flickered, the tiny green-and-gold eyes winked, the tiny pink hands gestured. There were yellow meadows and blue rivers and mountains and stars and suns and planets spread in a Milky Way across his chest. The people themselves were in twenty or more odd groups upon hi
As if Bradbury conjured images with his words rather than just writing them.Since his passing a few months ago I have been on a little Bradbury binge, I started with started with Something Wicked This Way Comes, then The October Country, The Martian Chronicles, Fahrenheit 451 and now The Illustrated Man. As with a lot of his works The Illustrated Man is more science fantasy than science fiction, the science in his stories are often very suspect but Bradbury never wanted to write hard sf, he left that sort of thing to the likes of Asimov/Clarke/Heinlein, who were masters of the form.
Bradbury siendo excelente como siempre, muchos de los cuentos se encuentran en el epítome de la creatividad...en cuanto escriba la reseña daré un aleluya a los mejores.
Una muy bella compilación de historias que Ray Bradbury fue publicando en diferentes revistas entre los años 47 y 51. Reseña detallada de cada cuento en Gracias a los Libros.
Bradbury's classic short story collection includes some Golden Age gems and some duds too:- Prologue: The Illustrated Man - 3/5 - framing story that starts off the collection - The Veldt - 5/5 - you can take the kids out of the veldt, but you can't take the veldt out of the kids- Kaleidoscope - 3/5 - dying astronauts' final thoughts and wishes - The Other Foot - 5/5 - what happens when a rocket brings a Caucasian to an African-American settlement on Mars (written in 1949 prior to the Civil Rights Movement)- The Highway - 3/5 - a contrast in perspectives regarding Armageddon- The Man - 3/5 - praise Jebus- The Long Rain - 3/5 - "We've been through every kind of rain there is." (Forrest Gump) - The Rocket Man - 3/5 - Mamas don't let your babies grow up to be Rocket Men- The Last Night of the World - 2/5 - Think about it.
A man purchases a robot identical to himself so that he can go on a vacation to Rio in Marionettes, Inc.; Mars has been colonized entirely by black people in The Other Foot, who plan to institute racial segregation and Jim Crow laws for white travelers who are bound their way from earth.They're good, engaging stories, and it's difficult to pick a favorite - thought if I had to I think I'd pick The Rocket, which is about Fiorello Bodoni - a poor junkyard owner who has finally saved enough money to be able to afford his lifelong dream - a trip to outer space.
I was expecting stories more in tone and theme with Bradbury's other collection, which I read and reviewed last year and recommend highly - The October Country.

Better than I expected and I expected a lot.Like Martian chronicle this is book of sci-fi short stories and like Martian chronicle there is lot more going on beneath the surface.As with all short story collections not all of stories are same quality and not all deserve 5 stars but even lowest point of this book is pretty damn high.
I stumbled across this short story collection when searching for horror literature online.
However, the stories in "The Illustrated Man" are not straight up horror; they're more like sci-fi stories and predictions on what life will look like 50-100 years from its publication date.
The narrative frame of the stories goes like this: A man, covered in tattoos, tells another man that he stumbles across to not look too deeply at his tattoos because they all tell stories that come true.
Bradbury has some interesting ideas that got me curious, and as is the case with most short story collections, I loved some stories whereas others didn't really speak to me.
Dimmi che tatuaggio hai e ti dirò chi sei.Un uomo completamente ricoperto di tatuaggi: ogni tatuaggio è una maledizione. Tutti i giorni, infatti, al calar del sole, questi si animano raccontando storie di un disperato futuro.Quando la fantascienza racconta forze e debolezze dell'Uomo. Diciotto storie che pongono domande e sono riflessione di Vita e di Morte.”Secondo me c'è una Verità su ogni pianeta, e tutte fanno parte della Grande Verità. Un giorno si sistemeranno insieme come le parti di un mosaico.”
One of the great joys of exploring old Science Fiction is coming across stories like the best works in this book, stories that make you wonder how you could possibly have gone so long without reading them.Bradbury is best known for his novel Fahrenheit 451, which is deservedly famous, However to my jaded readers' eye some of his short stories deliver more bang for buck, more emotional punch per word.
Of course, not all the works in this book are great or even good, and like almost every short story collection I have read there is the occasional turd floating in what is an otherwise inviting pool.
Bradbury is The Man. The stories comprised in this book are both disturbing and serene, ranging from the innocent cruelty of children to the desperate longing of Man for the deep, unknown outer space.
Oh Ray, you heart-stealer you...
L'infanzia fa capolino Profeta dell’eterna inclinazione umana all’autodistruzione; cantore assoluto 
What an interesting idea of having a tattooed man as the "Scheherazade" in this story.
Each tattoo tells a story.
Some are more science fiction-oriented and some are pure fantasy.
Yes, Bradbury's view of outer space might be considered naive for a science purist, but consider that he wrote stories about space long before space-exploration and the study of space conditions began in earnest.
Bradbury himself calls his stories science fantasy instead of science fiction.
"The Long Rains" is another story that comes to mind.
If you like to read short stories that are fantasy or science-fiction-oriented, you should definitely pick this one up.
I find it difficult to pick a favorite, but I think I will go with: The Rocket Man  - the story of the family man who loves deeply his wife and kid, but can't resist the call of the star spangled skies at night.Coming close behind: Kaleidoscope  - a group of astronauts are ejected into space when their ship is damaged and talk to each other over radio.
The Rocket  - space travel is expensive and a man saves money for decades, hoping one day he or one member of his family may buy a ticket to see the planets and the stars from up close.If I continue, I will eventually list all the stories.
Bradbury y su extraordinaria prosa nos deleitan con 18 relatos escritos entre 1947 y 1951. Me queda claro que es un maestro de las short stories.Me quedo con estas tres como favoritas: "La larga lluvia", "El zorro y el bosque" y "El cohete".Arte conceptual de "La pradera":Arte conceptual de "Caleidoscopio":Arte conceptual de "La carretera":Arte conceptual de "La larga lluvia":Arte conceptual de "El hombre del cohete":Arte conceptual de "El visitante":Arte conceptual de "La mezcladora de cemento":
El hecho de que suela colocarse junto a 1984 y Un mundo feliz, epítomes del subgénero, me hace sostenerla un poco más.El Hombre Ilustrado, una de las colecciones de cuentos de Bradbury, echa mano de la historia de un vagabundo tatuado de pies a cabeza, cuyas ilustraciones (que no tatuajes) cobran vida y cada una cuenta un relato.
De por sí la visión y las profundas preocupaciones humanas de Bradbury deberían servir para darle una calificación muy alta a esta antología, pero la estrella que estoy retirando viene más bien por lo árido de tres o cuatro cuentos.
Bradbury is unmatched. This collection serves as a constant inspiration and reminder to be better, in the hopes that one day I can inspire the awe and thrill that Bradbury's imagination and talent instilled in me.My uncle gifted me this book. When he was younger he collected every story Bradbury wrote through science fiction magazines in the mail. I am SO grateful to him for introducing me to more of Bradbury's stories.
Interesting that Bradbury's aim with his writing was to make others "jealous of his joy", yet all of his stories are so dark! You can still hear him enjoying the telling of them :)Reminds me to get over my fears of running out of ideas or writing first to please others—therein, as friends have told me too, is the path to madness!
This book was first published in 1951, a mere six years after the dropping of the atomic bombs on Japan.
By reference, the fear the atom bomb created had managed to threateningly worm its way into some of the short stories.
The author may have likely found himself caught up with the overwhelming paranoia of the times that ran rampant in the world.
Looks like we've missed out!
This was after all just a sample of one talented writer's indulgence into "Sci-Fi thinking" at the middle of the twentieth century." Hats off to Ray Bradbury.
Buen libro. Como es un conjunto de historias, mi puntaje va en que hubo algunas historias que me encantaron y otras que no tanto, obviamente. En general me pasó que me cuestioné: ¿realmente pasará esto en el futuro? O mejor... ¿qué tan lejos estamos de ese futuro? Y pensé: ¡qué aterradores podemos llegar a ser los humanos! Mis favoritos fueron:The VeldtThe Rocket ManThe Last Night of the WorldThe Rockety el mejor de todos, The Man
Brilliant collection of dark , sci-fi short stories. Each story makes you think over and over that what would happen in future.While ago I watched Black Mirror Tv series and it reminded me again of this terrifying book. Technology and what it brings with itself can be really scary, coming from a software developer it's so lame, I know.
Another great collection from a master short story teller...
It's a great accent to Bradbury's famous sci-fi masterpiece.
Interestingly enough, though the stories ring of The Martian Chronicles, the collection begins with a tattooed (illustrated) man who has worked as an act in carnival freak shows.
His story, which opens and closes the collection, brings to mind Something Wicked This Way Comes and overlays these sci-fi tales with a shade of horror.
No one but Bradbury could have accomplished a work of art like this.
Like staring at the inked illustrations on the mans body, Bradbury's skill at description and prose pulls the reader into the vivid world he inks on paper.
read this eons ago & still love it - short stories are so great - such a shame they don't get more support.
3.5 estrellas.Una buena colección de cuentos de Ray Bradbury, aunque por momentos resulta repetitiva porque todos tienen la misma temática: viajes espaciales, los humanos colonizando marte (u otros planetas) o el fin del mundo y la raza humana gracias a la guerra nuclear. Por momentos fue como leer una continuación de Las crónicas marcianas ( libro que recomiendo con toda violencia ), solo que al carecer del hilo conductor que une los diferentes relatos de las crónicas, pierde un poco de encanto
3.5 estrellas.Una buena colección de cuentos de Ray Bradbury, aunque por momentos resulta repetitiva porque todos tienen la misma temática: viajes espaciales, los humanos colonizando marte (u otros planetas) o el fin del mundo y la raza humana gracias a la guerra nuclear.
Por momentos fue como leer una continuación de Las crónicas marcianas (
libro que recomiendo con toda violencia
), solo que al carecer del hilo conductor que une los diferentes relatos de las crónicas, pierde un poco de encanto.
Por eso recomiendo leer primero las crónicas y después este libro.
Algunos de mis cuentos favoritos fueron:-The Veldt-The long rain-The man-The exiles
Bradbury'nin bilimkurguya yaklaşımında diğer yazarlara göre bir farklılık var. Sadece dünyalı insanların değil başka gezegenlerden insanların ve varlıkların gözüyle de bakabiliyor. Bu kitaptaki hemen her hikayede Alacakaranlık Kuşağı'ndan bir bölüm izlemiş gibi oldum.
In fact, he’s crap at science, but that doesn’t matter because he isn’t interested in telling stories about how technological changes affect society.
What does God mean in the context of a universe with many worlds?Re-reading what I’ve written so far, it seems like I don’t appreciate Bradbury, but I do.
He doesn’t bother with women much they can be wives and mothers but they don’t do anything else, even when he posits a future without the need for housework, he can’t conceive of women using that time for anything else, not work, not art, not even charity.
