https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40948565-the-secret-of-the-nagas
It isn't often one comes across a book by an Indian author, with a sequel.
Filled with secrets, shocks and betrayal, this book is a page-turner from start to finish.
The author often uses the story to put forth his opinion on many issues - like Karma, ethics, consequentialism, existentialism and the balance of Good and Evil.
I get that the author has tried to give the story as modern a take as possible, but I can't quite digest the fact that these people know of "radio waves" and "accumulator machines" OR that they say things like "You're a 180-year old virgin??" (Was anybody else reminded of Twilight here?
That is not to say that it is not a good read - it is just that I was expecting the second book to be better than the first in some ways at least, and quite frankly, it is not.How Amish managed to construct a whole sequel on such a flimsy basic premise is beyond me.
The entire series essentially boils down to single mythological point - the Shiva-Ganesh showdown - the entire story is an elaborate construct to lead towards that, which was disappointing, especially since that too never happens after all that buildup.
_/\_As I already mentioned, this book is strictly not for those who believe in Lord Ram's ways of ruling, saivism or Shiva Puran and that intrigued me to proceed with the sequel.And it did not disappoint me, not even a bit of it.
What really captivated me was that the secret itself was speaking about illusions or Maya.What intrigues me now to read "The Oath Of Vayuputras" is the secret that Krittika shares with Ayurvati and the secrets that the secret itself should reveal to Shiva.
YUCKS....!!!!!!!!really....??
did I read it??
I mean...seriously????This book had been at the top of the list by The Telegraph....and I can't believe Telegraph would recommend us to read such a crappy book....not only Telegraph...even one of my friends recommended me this book..I couldn't even read further than 100pages....the story matter sucks...the language sucks....the writing style sucks...sense of humor zero...it felt like I was reading a book written by a sixth grade student....the only thing I get this from the book is how Shiva travels over the India and people seems to praise him like god, treats him like king, although he doesn't believe in himself...It seemed that the theory Amish Tripathi tried to write in his book wasn't quite clear to himself....hence the story wasn't quite linked....the loose threads kept to make the books interesting seemed to lost with the plot and remain lost even in the end....and don't make me start with the Vasudevs crap....I mean they are supposed to be pandits, right??
Having grown up hearing stories about Gods like Shiva, Vishnu, Rama, Krishna etc curiosity was the one thing that drew me towards the first book in the series.
But the curious thing about this book is that even though you want to be surprised and confronted with out of the world conspiracy theories with each turn of the page it is the very same predictability that keeps you hooked.
What about a person who has not yet heard of Shiva or his story?
2.5 “The opposite of love is not hate. Hate is just love gone bad. The actual opposite of love is apathy.” And that pretty much sums up my feelings for this book – not love, not hate. Just apathy.It hurts me that I cannot give this book a better rating. All things considered, The Secret of the Nagas deserves at least a three, for the sheer ingenuity of its concept. But my ratings are always based on how intensely a book affects me, and as frustrating as it is to admit, this book did not affect m
“The opposite of love is not hate.
And that pretty much sums up my feelings for this book – not love, not hate.
Just apathy.It hurts me that I cannot give this book a better rating.
I hoped that would make me like this book better than its predecessor.But it just didn’t work.Battles were being fought, and I didn’t care.
Surprises were being revealed, and I didn’t care – probably because I figured them out way early.
(view spoiler)[(Like how every new character just has to fall down on his knees before Shiva and cry copious amounts of tears.
So the book didn’t work for me.
Amazing Read....Mr Amish starts with a basic idea of 'what if our gods were humans, albeit with supe
The second book 'The Secret of the Nagas' follows 'The Immortals of Meluha' the first book in the 'Shiva Trilogy' series.
Additionally, he aims to avenge the death of his best friend by killing the evil Naga, known as Lord of the People by the Nagas, and bring end to evil by finally destroying the Nagas.
But a bitter-sweet revelation of her past surfaces motivating Shiva to uncover the secret of the Nagas.What is evil?
In this book, we understand a lot more about the Nagas and the quest of Shiva to find evil.
For past one year we (and here I can talk about four of us) have been waiting for the release of this book.
Its one of the firsts in Mythological fiction in India based on God Shiva.
For me Shiva is probably the most maverick of the Trimurti of Gods – Brahma, Vishnu & Mahesh – birth, life & death and comes across as someone so un-God like.
Unlike Vishnu the charmer & his aura and Brahma with his multiple heads and books, Shiva represents the God of the free spirits, who do not believe in right or wrong but believe in him and only him.
In some ways, the predictability is because of the fact that, once you're about a third into the book, it hits you that Amish has found this really cool way of retelling tales from Indian mythology; through an engaging, witty and insightful set of stories.
Each of the characters is one of the several familiar, if not beloved gods of childhood-stories-heard-on-grandmother's-knee :) You make this realisation at any point in the book.
The way each character is developed by Amish and the way the story itself unfolds makes the book a very enjoyable read.
The one reason, I read through the series, though incomplete, is the very serious romanticized take on a mythological figure.
Shiva, one of the most masculine, virile men in Hindu mythology provides the perfect hero to this epical narrative.
The follow up to this book, the secret of the Nagas, lacks a perfect narrative.
It’s a series of very predictable disclosures that unfold through a chain of events.
We wait for the third book in the series to see how this humdrum narrative comes to an end.
My only favored element in the book, Shiva.
কখনও রোলার কোষটারে চড়েছেন? অথবা ফযানটাসি কিংডমের মযাজিক কারপেটে? চড়ে থাকলে বুঝবেন যে যখন আপনাকে খালি এদিক ওদিক ছুড়ে দেয় আর আপনার কিছুই করার থাকে না তখন কেমন লাগে। বইটা পড়তে গিয়ে ও আমার একই অবসথা হইছে। সিমপলি জটিল। এত এত বই পড়ে যখন নিজেকে পরবাধ দিচছি যে নতুন আর কি টুইষট লেখক দিবে? সব ত আগেই বুইঝা গেছি। তখনি লেখক আমাকে একটা করে শক দেন, আর আমি বুঝি যে নারে এখন ও এত বুঝবান তুই হস নাই।অসাধারন কাহিনীকার লেখক। তার লেখনি তে মুগধ হতেই হবে। বড়জোর ৫০ পাতা আপনি মেজর কোন টুইষট ছাড়া যেতে পারবেন। এরপর শক খেতে
অথবা ফ্যান্টাসি কিংডমের ম্যাজিক কার্পেটে?
সব ত আগেই বুইঝা গেছি। তখনি লেখক আমাকে এক্টা করে শক দেন, আর আমি বুঝি যে নারে এখন ও এত বুঝবান তুই হস নাই।অসাধারন কাহিনীকার লেখক। তার লেখনি তে মুগ্ধ হতেই হবে। বড়জোর ৫০ পাতা আপনি মেজর কোন টুইষ্ট ছাড়া যেতে পারবেন। এরপর শক খেতে হবেই। লেখক এই গল্পে তার আগের বই কে পুরাই ঘুরায়া ফেলছেন। ভিলেন আর ভিলেন নাই, নায়ক আর নায়ক (আসল জন বাদ দিয়ে আরকি)।এই বইটার ইংরেজী ভার্সনটা আমি পড়ছি। খুবি সহজ ভাষাতে লেখক লিখছেন। আমারা ছোট বেলায় র‍্যপিড রিডার পড়তাম। বিভিন্ন ইংরেজী ক্লাসিকের সহজকৃত ভার্সন। অই বইগুলার ইংরেজী ও এর চেয়ে কঠিন ছিল। তবে এক্টু অসুবিধা হইছে যখন লেখক সংস্কৃত ভাষাতে নাম গুলো লিখছেন (ইন্ডিয়ার বিভিন্ন জায়গার নাম)। এছাড়া পুরাটা খুবই সহজ।
in spite of not being enamored with the first book, i read the secret of nagas just to satisfy my curiosity of how the author managed to progress the plot in the book 2 of the trilogy.
to cut a long story short, im disappointed.
no character in this book is completely evolved, including that of Shiva.
as a result, there is no one character you root for.
some of twists in the story are so bizarre that if feels very forced.
the "secret of nagas" also turns out to extremely predictable.
Though this is not very gripping like the first edition i thoroughly enjoyed reading this books!!
As i have said in my review for the first part that one should remove from his mind that shiva is god and proceed reading, then one can enjoy the book!!
The starting chapters were not soo interesting, but the plot begins to unfold as it proceeds!The author was successful in taking me into a complete different world, which is the prime for any fiction/fantasy writer.I am very thankful and feel privileged to be a reader of this epic!Eagerly waiting for the third part "The oath of vaayuputras"
The Secret of the Nagas (Shiva Trilogy #2), Amish Tripathi
The story was that of Parshuram which definitely reminded me of the honour killings rooted in our society.Hats off to Amish for this one !Some of the awesome lines in this book were .."I know this is not entirely right.
Just like light, which helps you to see, there are radio waves to help you hear.
While all humans can easily use the properties of light to see, most don't know how to use radio waves to hear.
Radio waves travel far and fast, just like light"- Birth Pangs [Pg110]Truth doesn't ask for belief.
He never gets hurt, none of his followers get hurt or killed (except for one janakaraj like character), nobody is wrong but every one has different view points - it started resembling a tamil masala movie.From the first book, Tripathi builds up the image of the Naga as some one besotted with Sati / Parvati.
So it came as a jolt when it turned out to be Ganesha, who in all our myths has been a jolly good fellow, not the intense character that Tripathi makes him out to be.Personally it offended my Tamil senses that Murukan / Karthikeyan is shown to be a north indian prince.
Last night, at 10-30, just before my weary head hit the pillow, I felt the need to read, or at least start reading a book.
As a thundershower raged outside, I remained wrapped up in the multi-coloured and multi-textured quilt woven by Amish.Amish's works have been compared with those of several authors.
But I also think that he is, till date, the only author whohas given us something similar to the legendary works of R.E. Howard, using Indian mythology to create a world that's purely fictional, and yet strangely familiar because of it's juxtapositioning of known geography onto mythical notions.
Loved it!
This book eases down on the action a bit and has more of those interesting conversations with the Vasudevs/Pandits.
And one more thing, this part totally turns the user impressions of the good vs evil, u will suddenly find good turning to evil and evil turning out to be good!
We will end up almost as confused as Shiva himself ;)One rouse is that i thought this book diverged from known 'facts' of Hindu mythology by a significant amount.
Am not an expert on the Hindu mythology, so maybe it's just my impression!
পরথমটার মতো এতো দুরদানত না হলেও ওভার অল বেশ ভালো লেগেছে।
প্রথমটার মতো এতো দুর্দান্ত না হলেও ওভার অল বেশ ভালো লেগেছে।
the book is dissapointing to say the least,,, the author is in too hurry to declare his character as great,, there plans as marvellous and there actions as something of legendary,, what he lacks is writing,, either he believes that reader to too busy to read the character buildup, or he believes reader would be idiot enough to accept any structure to be divine just because author say it so...means what is point of writing it if u not bother to describe it to the full details,,, one of the main strong point of fantasy + Fiction + Myth is the amount of details that r provided (while still leaving a lot to imagination),,, author simply lacks that,,, he seems to be in a hurry to finish the book...people who r used to LOTR or other big fantasy fiction series (specially those who want there character to be developed in front of them and r not afraid of going through so called voluminous will be highly dissapointed by this book).
Buku ini adalah kisah fantasi yang lengkap. Petualangan ada, mitologi banyak, pertempurannya cukup menegangkan, mengajak merenung juga iya. Lebih dari itu semua, lewat Siwa, penulis mengajak pembaca untuk memandang orang lain tidak dari fisik atau status mereka. Jika kita mau mencoba memahami, selalu ada alasan di balik setiap perilaku buruk maupun baik. Siwa yang Mahadewa saja menghormati setiap orang baru yang dijumpainya, masak kita yang alay gini kok sok suci dan sok benar sendiri. Kisah lengkap Siwa beserta DUA NOVEL GRATIS-nya silakan meluncur kehttps://dionyulianto.blogspot.co.id/2...
Three and a half stars again- As in the first instalment, it is the plot and the pace that keep one completely engrossed, one wants to keep reading on to see what happens. The plot is very exciting, imaginative, and interesting. But my complaint with the language in the first book continues in this one- it just seems unsuited to the setting and the time- not quite right. Of course, this isn't stopping me from moving on to the final instalment.(review date 10 May 2014)
The sequel arrived after I had almost forgotten the plot of its predecessor, but the thrill and adventure, as well as the unique plotline made it all rush back into my brain’s core.The book begins where the previous installment ends – Shiva and Sati chasing their assailant.
The trilogy attempts to weave an interesting story based on this idea and the author has done a fairly good job, considering that this is his maiden attempt in writing a book of this magnitude.The story takes Shiva, his family and friends across the country in search of the evil – or are they – Nagas and their kingdom.
Shiva continues his journey from Meluha into Swadeep, after managing to broker a peaceful arrangement between the Suryavanshis and Chandravanshis.
As the book progresses, events force Shiva to reconsider his belief in the Vasudevs as well as his stance on the Nagas, and towards the end, he begins his journey into the land south of the Narmada – the abode of the Nagas.
I felt that the prose and the style had definitely improved from the first volume, though I still found the rampant use of modern day phrases and expressions by mythological characters a put off.
The second Novel of Amish Tripathi. This is a very serious romanticized take on a mythological figure.Shiva the god of god, a virile man in Hindu mythology provides the perfect hero to this epical narrative. At last shiva married to Sati, this is only matters to read this book. mythology provides the perfect hero to this epical narrative.
Fiuh! Akhirnya kelar juga. Tenang ... gak bakal ngasih secuil review tentang isi buku di sini. Bahaya spoiler terlalu gede soalnya. Jadi cukup percaya saja ya, buat pecinta adegan action, setidaknya ada 7 adegan pertempuran di buku ini. Buat pecinta romance, ada satu romance unyu menanti. Buat penyuka dialog-dialog filosofis, buku ini luber deh. Nah, jika kalian penyuka misteri, jangan khawatir. Ending-nya cliffhanger. Jelas bikin penasaran kan? Yuk baca edisi Indonesianya awal taun depan ;)Btw covernya keren ya. Semoga dipertahankan di edisi Indonesia.
this was a good book to read during free timeThough some chapters seemed out of the flow but nearing the end,it all starts to connect.If one thinks that this book is the end and there is nothing twisty ahead....its time to think again.the oath of vayuputras is gar beyond what you expect.even though its fatter than others and has way too many chapters but I hope its worth a read...Frankly,the immortals of Meluhas was more captivating than the secret of the nagas for me.:)
Stuffed with thrill, adventure and action, the sequel takes you deeper in the Shiva trilogy that gets better and better. The Secrets of the Nagas are really intriguing and give you more than what you’re seeking.
As good as or rather even better than the first part.. recommended for all hindus.. Discover the actual facts(actually fantasy) in Hindu mythology
