https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2343077.Paris_Underground
Etta's struggled of fear during the time she helped her friend Kitty smuggle out more than 15o English soldiers left behind in France from Dunkirk was relatable and I found myself praying that God would give me the strength to be as brave as Kitty, should the need ever arise.
But I know that in the end, divine justice will prevail; and the verdict of God will be pronounced, not against us, but against you, who presume to judge us."And Kitty's last words to her friend Etta before being sent to a separate prison with the promise of executions:  " Don't worry about me.
It's not the quality of the writing that held me, but the unfolding of events.This book, published in 1943, is an autobiographical account of a middle-aged American woman (Etta Shiber) living in Paris in the 1930s.
This chance meeting changes their lives.The two women, Kitty in her mid-forties and Shiber ten years older, take it upon themselves to try to save this young man.
They smuggle him into Paris--despite encountering four German checkpoints en route--then to their flat, and eventually are able to get him over the demarcation line; finally, he is returned to England.
They collaborate with French partners, including a country priest who gathers the men, a disfigured World War I veteran who arranges for them to travel to the border and a patriotic old farmer who lets them sneak across on his land.
The author, Etta, is the worrywart, always trying to rein in her partner Kitty, who flirts with recklessness.Stylistically, it's very proper and melodramatic--a match for the era, but a little forced for today's readers.
Etta's proper voice keeps the narrative grounded as she descends into prison, starvation and the brutal authoritarianism of the Nazi justice system.
Even if some details are heightened, it's a gripping read, one that illuminates the danger--and evils--of its time.
I usually get rid of books after I'm done with them. I mean, why would I accumulate objects I know I won't use ever again, right? But I have an "untouchables" shelf, where I keep only 30 books or so that I am sure I'd like to reread sometime. This book is in that shelf. I read this book some 10 years ago and would gladly read it again. It's ranked in my top-ten books that have made my heart race... literally.This Smithsonian article is a summary of Mrs. Shiber's story. Enjoy!
This book kept me on the edge of my seat. I enjoy history and this true life account during WWII was a reminder of self-sacrifice for the good of others. I will be recommending Paris Underground to friends!
She is a prisoner of the Nazis being exchanged for a German woman who had beenimprisoned as a spy in the U.S. So from the start one knows that Ms. Shiber gets caught, but survives her imprisonment.Etta is an American living in Paris with her friend, Kitty, a British woman who is married to aFrenchman.
They are contacted by a priestin an area where many British soldiers are hiding out and he arranges to bring them toKitty's apartment to be moved on to the border.Kitty and Etta's efforts are heartfelt, but in many ways amateurish and naïve.
Like other's who have reviewed this book here, I found the narrative gripping. The 2 women and their team are truly heroic - ordinary people doing the right thing because it is the right thing to do. They gained nothing and, in fact, suffered much from their deeds.
This is available on Kindle now, and the first hand account of life under Nazi rule in Paris is a must read for anyone interested in this period, place and people.
This book was great. I found this book in an old book store. My copy is from 1943.
This is the fascinating true story of two women in Paris during World War II who risk their lives to get British and American troops out of Paris after the Germans conquered the city. It’s a well-written, inspiring, and exciting story that reads like fiction.
When she moves into an apartment with her good friend Kitty (an Englishwoman who married a Frenchman), the two women find themselves in a predicament as German forces begin to overtake Paris.
Kitty and Etta join the mass exodus along the highway of Paris, attempting to hightail to safer territory.When German pilots strafe the highways and subsequently kill all Parisians on the highway, the two friends manage to take a backroad and hide in a cottage off the beaten path.
Highly recommended, this book is a powerful tale of two friends who are faithful to each other through thick and thin, who courageously sacrifice their own freedom and lives for the young men who fought and protected Allied nations.
I first read this book back in 1961, and have reread it several times over the years.
Fascinating account of how two middle aged women risked their lives to smuggle British soldiers out of Nazi occupied France.
Gives a vivid and stark picture of life in Paris in the early years of the Nazi occupation.
And how you could get thrown into a terrible prison, starving and cold, for the slightest show of disapproval of the occupying forces.
The odd thing is that it seems to be impossible to find out what happened to any of the principle characters after, especially the British woman who was sentenced to death.
I came across a description of this book somewhere on the internet. It piqued my interested so I decided to read it. I couldn't put it down. It's a wonderful book, an easy read, and Etta's writing style, the characters, and the events keep you interested the entire time. It gives you a look into the justice system of the Nazi's and makes you appreciate what you have. I plan on reading this again.
Incredibly readable and TRUE tale of one Englishwoman and her American best friend who smuggled English soldiers to unoccupied territory from Nazi-ruled Paris. One of their bases was on the street I lived in while I studied there -- awesome.
An amazing story of an American and a British woman, who while living as roommates in WWII France, help save the lives of dozens of Allied troops as they help them escape Nazi occupied Paris. Written by the American.
Reread over and over in my 20's. So good
An amazing true story about two brave women who helped smuggle English soldiers out of Paris after the Nazis invaded. This is one of the best books I've read, I could hardly put it down.
This is my favorite book!! A true story about two fifty-ish women in Paris when the Germans invade. Read what they do! Incredible!\
Unbelievably moving story- easy to read and very memorable.
One of that interesting genre of books written close to WWII by participants in the underground. I would like to know more about this woman.
An interesting view of the French Resistance in Paris during the War-told from the point of view of an American woman.
Excellent true story from World War II!!!
we are reading this for our second book club at my house. let me know if you are interested in joining the book club. as we are all 21st century, we can also skype in members :)
it's a great memoir of a woman in Paris during WWII -- can be downloaded for free
I love this book!! Everyone should read it!! seriously it gets you on your feet with excitement!!!READ IT,~ Andy
This was a courageous, tragic, and mesmerizing book--A page turner from the beginning. Those interested in WWII first hand accounts may find this book to be more than worthwhile.
This is one of my all time favorite books. It is amazing the things a human being can go through and survive.
This is a great book, and written just after the experience. It gives a realistic look at just what life was like in Paris during the occupation, the dangers, and the temptations.
