https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857448.Harry_the_Dirty_Dog
Gene Zion cunningly disguised one of the great existential questions of our age in this Dirty Harry book.Do you feel lucky?This is a book about identity:Am I white (with black spots) or black (with white spots)About change and transition:Do I have to remain how I was born.
Can the leopard (or Scotty dog) change its spots?About civil liberties:When can indignities (such as baths) be imposed upon the young or upon minorities (Scotties), and when is it time to stand up to authority and say "No!" (or "woof").And about consequence:Will your loved ones recognise your rights to make the choices you have?
Pleasing little illustrations that woo your adult self to read it over and over again.Harry, the dog, is not so fond of bathing and shoots away to the city for an adventure.Well, as the name suggests, he gets dirty from the coal engines, the dusts and the smoke.Gene Zion packs a good tale of the dog who faces rejection by his owners as they fail to recognize his changed guise.
Is that a black dog with white spot or a white dog with black spots?How will Harry ever get them to know!This short story never goes old with time.
Harry was a lovely white dog who sported a few black spots.
After disposing of his scrubbing brush, Harry set out to explore the world on his own, a very dirty world.
Playing in the dirt and rolling in coal soon turned Harry into the blackest dog ever, with only a few white spots.
After missing his family, Harry decided to return home, though things were not as easy as he might have hoped!
Neo has never had a pet, but he quite enjoyed this piece, noticing how determined Harry was to get out and see the world, but still chose to come home at the end of the day.
This was read by Betty white I found an online YouTube channel called storytime online great children stories read by famous people I absolutely loved it especially for the little ones
What a cute little face Harry has <3
So he buries the scrubbing brush and runs away and has a wonderful day getting dirty, but then when he goes back home (because of course he hasn’t really run away), his family doesn’t recognize him.
And when all hope seems lost, he remembers the scrubbing brush and digs it up and runs into the house and jumps in the tub and begs for a bath.
And then the last page delivers a delicious last little kick, as Harry dreams of “how much fun it had been getting dirty” and he sleeps so soundly that he doesn’t even feel the scrubbing brush he has hidden under his pillow.
I adored this book as a young child. It’s written for very young children, but I still enjoy it as an adult. It’s a very clever story and told with a lot of humor and warmth. I like all the Harry The Dirty Dog books but this one was the first I read and it remains my favorite. It holds up completely over time – a genuine classic.
My review: Harry is a white dog with black spots, who hates taking baths.
I remember reading this book as a kid.
It's a fun book of innocent mischief and great illustrations that clearly reveal how much fun Harry has getting dirty.
I'm going to have to buy No Roses for Harry for my niece, because I remember loving that one, too.
It was another childhood favorite.My niece's review: She doesn't speak yet, so it's hard to say for sure.
Towards the end, she started to whine and cry, but as I said, she was tired and fussy, so I wouldn't take that as a criticism of the book.
If you don't like Harry the Dirty Dog, then I don't want to be your friend.
I've always wondered... does the family really not recognize Harry, or are they just pretending they don't so that he'll take a bath?
I love the Harry books. Harry is so cute and his facial features is so expressive, really making the cartoon come alive.Harry does not want to take a bath so he grabs the scrub brush and runs away. On his little adventure, he finds that maybe there are worse things than taking a bath.
So delighted to see dogs these days represented how we truly are in major dramatic roles. I can't wait for more contemporary dog novels. We deserve more recognition for keeping the squirrel population at an all time minimum
Sweet, funny story about a dog who gets so dirty while playing that his own family doesn't recognize him. The illustrations now look cheerfully retro, rather than just dated, and the humor is pretty timeless (even for a cat person, like me).
★★★★★Harry the Dirty Dog by Gene ZionCute story about a playful puppy who doesn't want a bath, but in the end is happy to be squeaky clean. My 9yo daughter loved this book.
This was one of my favourite books as a kid and reading it again made me feel all warm and fuzzy. It's about a little dog named Harry who gets so dirty his coat colour changes and his owners don't recognise him. My favourite and perhaps most beloved aspect is the illustration style -- it's super nostalgic and reminds me of old cartoons which probably adds to the nostalgia hit. This book has all it needs to appeal to children. Dirt, a dog, and disobeying rules. What more do you need?
One of the few books my grandparents had at their house when I was little, so I grew to love this one.
This book is great for young children because it is filled with ideas that children can relate to- the main character is a dog, the idea of not wanting to take a bath, and the comfort and love of a family.
It shows that just because Harry changed his appearance from a white dog to a black dog, doesnt mean that Harry himself actually changed.
He was still the same dog, capable of doing the same tricks, and interested in the same things.
It shows that physical appearance and color does not affect the person on the inside.
gotta be the best book i've ever read. hands down. i was recently given a paperback copy for my 26th birthday. i miss all my crayon marks in the old one, but was never ever to recover the original.
He dose not want to takeSowers
Read this as a child and almost know it by heart. For every child (who hates baths) and every dog owner whose dog hates baths. A true classic and a must for every childhood library.
My little niece loved this book–and I did too! It's fun to do what you want and ignore responsibilities-like getting a bath-but after a bit, we may realize we enjoy those things that seems to be a chore. We may even, like Harry, realize they make us who we are. May we all be clean...like Harry (at the end, of course). Jesus loves you!For Jesus first loved me....~M.K.www.forJesusfirstlovedme.wordpress.com†
I remember ready this book as a child in elementary school, well now the time has come to read this book to my child as a after school reading assignment. It's a charming classic book that every child can enjoy.
Betty White reads it? Yes, please.
A cute children’s book about a dog named Harry. Not one of my favourites.
Cute book. I vaguely remember the illustrations but didn’t remember the story at all from my childhood. I think it is funny that the dog gets a name but the human people are referred to in pronouns. Anyway, Betty White reads this book on YouTube, which was my entire motivation for reading this book.
I have read this book 12 or more times this weekend. Someone under the age of two is OBSESSED. The cadence and pictures are definitely over fifty, but the story is charming and holds up after repeated readings in a short amount of time. I am miffed at Harry's family, however. How could they NOT recognize him from his amazing tricks. Dull, dull, dull.
Grandma & Grandpa's dog is named after this Harry so we just had to read it to Alistair. A dog does not want a bath and runs away but when he comes home and his family doesn't recognize him he puts himself in the bath.
I'm not sure when I read this, but I'm pretty sure I did.
Cute story. I've seen this book for years, but this is the first time I read it. This must be a favorite among young readers.
Harry hated getting baths so he hid his scrub brush and ran out to play.
In addition, it includes a linear and limited time sequence in a confined setting with language that is concrete and vivid and not overly complex.Classroom Connection I think a good lesson to go along with this book would be for the teacher to discuss with students the importance of personal hygiene and cleanliness.
Text Complexity According to Scholastic Book Wizard, children in grades k-2nd would enjoy Harry the Dirty Dog. A child in third grade should be able to read this story independently.
