https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/846984.Love_Stargirl
She has left Mica High in Arizona and, more importantly, her boyfriend Leo. The story reads as a year-long letter to Leo as Stargirl lives life as only she can and tries to understand how things went wrong with Leo and what her feelings are for him now.Spinelli brings in a lot of memorable characters.
I am as enchanted with Stargirl now as I was when I read Spinelli's first novel about her.
I think that if everyone tried to be a little more like Stargirl the world would be a better place.You can find this review and more on my blog Miss Print
Don't get me wrong, The Scarlet Letter is one of my favorite novels ever, but I wanted something lighter and when I heard Stargirl, the book that WAS my sixth grade had a sequel...well, I ran out and got it.And I loved it.
When the sixth book came out, I knew a few people that railed against Hermione, the smart, pragmatic one, going all weepy over a *boy*.
I'm not going to lie, Stargirl spends a good chunk of this book upset over the loss of Leo (or Starboy, as she once addresses him) and yeah, the book is essentially a massive letter/diary to him.
Didn't love it.Stargirl was such a totally charming book.
Open-ended somewhat, and I wanted to know what happened next.This is a sequel, I guess, a what-happens-sort-of-next and this time it's narrated by Stargirl.
All of the things Stargirl does and has done for years are absent here.
And it throws in so many bizarre things that weren't in Stargirl.
The characters are neither as real-life nor as endearing.True confessions: I skipped probably a third of the book, just decided to skip ahead and see if it was ever going to get to the part I wanted it to.
But maybe that's the real charm of Stargirl - even though we're normal human beans, to quote Stargirl's 6-year-old new friend Dootsie, we can still share magic with those around us.These are things Stargirl did that I particularly liked:- wrote a book-length letter to her old boyfriend that she sometimes wanted him to see and sometimes didn't.- got rid of watches and clocks at home but made her own calendar by marking the points of sunrise in an empty field once a week.
I loved this book just as much as Stargirl.
I want her to stay that way forever, please never let her change.
It's beautiful, absolutely heartbreakingly and soul-nurturing beautiful.
I don't want to spoil the plot by quoting any of my faces but oh, guys, it's great.
There's still the classic Stargirl randomness and quirk that endears you to her, the community building and giving nature that Stargirl is famous for but she's growing, maturing even more, into this amazing woman and I loved seeing that in this book.
Absolutely loved it.
Archie even explains that star people are not meant to be understood by the rest of us.So, why would I want to read a book from Stargirl's perspective?
When I first started Love, Stargirl I was disappointed to read that she was a normal teenage girl who was pining over Leo, humiliated by his betrayal at the school dance, and barely noticing all of the unique people around her.
But, I kept reading and as Stargirl started to find herself again (with an assist by the loveable Archie) I started to love her again.

I guess I'm not very sympathetic, but I am tired of reading about girls your age that get overly obsessed and whining over boys.
My daughter read both of your books and I was hoping that we could continue to have discussions about what it means to be yourself, about following the crowd, and about finding your own star.
Now with this second book I'm finding we will have a very different discussion.By the end of the book you started to come around and in the process the book got a bit more interesting.
Light, enjoyable and quite fun. But, I enjoyed the first book about Stargirl sooo much more.
I was so excited when I heard this was coming out.
SO EXCITED.
I'm sorry to say, though, that I actually kind of hated it.
Stargirl herself is kind of lame.
All she does is moons over Leo and acts vaguely obnoxious.
The side characters are supposed to be wacky, but they just come off as forced.
Also, they all seemed like less good versions of characters from Maniac Magee.
Dootsie feels like a bad Hester and Lester, and Alvina is a poor man's Piper and Russell.
Perry isn't like a character from another book, but I struggle to understand what Stargirl sees in him.
I had high hopes because it is the sequel to one of my favorite books.
The spirit of Stargirl wasn't as powerful or as meaningful in this book as the previous book.
I also thought the theme of the book, to live in the moment and see where life takes you, was forced.
I also thought that this sequel was definitely for more advanced readers than Stargirl because some of the content.
It was nice to still hear about a young person with a free spirit who tries her best to bring happiness to the world but it seemed very deliberate.
I finished this super fast because Stargirl bored me to death and I skimmed through it.Anyway, like my rating, I thought this book was simply ok.
The only characters that I seemed genuinely interested in were Archie and Perry.
I hated her little "mini-imaginary-conversations" with her and Leo. They were so pathetic and such a waste of time.
She's still in love with a guy who truly does not give a crap about her.
Perry would have kicked Leo's butt by spitting lemon seeds at him.
He would die a horrible death, being attacked by lemon seeds.
"Tidak ada sebelum Grace." Saya pun makin cinta pada orangtua Stargirl, yang memberikan ruang seluas-luasnya kepada putri tunggal mereka untuk menjadi diri sendiri.
Berapa banyak yang mau menjahit tenda besar dari kain super tebal agar putrinya bisa merayakan Titik Balik Matahari setelah 46 minggu harus bangun dini hari setiap Kamis untuk mengantar putrinya menancapkan penanda waktu alami di puncak bukit yang gelap?Meskipun begitu, terus terang saya sempat skeptis, kok bisa Stargirl menemukan teman-teman seunik itu dalam satu wilayah perumahan.
Tapi kemudian saya berpikir, mungkin kalau kita mau membuka mata dan tidak terpolusi oleh pendapat umum tentang apa yang dianggap 'normal,' sebenarnya orang-orang yang menarik seperti itu bertebaran di sekeliling kita.
Yet again, I have been introduced to Jerry Spinelli's FANTASTIC writing and characters.This book was better than the first.
I LOVED reading from Stargirl's POV, and I fell in love with every single character.
There wasn't a character that I didn't like, and I wanted more of them.
I did feel like there were some things left unfinished- some loose ends that need to be tied in.
I felt like the ending was a little abrupt, but I liked it oddly enough.
I loved Stargirl and I love this book even more.
I was excited when I heard this book was coming out - a sequel to one of my favorite books, Stargirl.
But it's a bit like those who write sequels to Jane Austen novels and Gone with the Wind.
I think maybe its biggest problem is that this time Stargirl is the narrator.
She was so mysterious and surprising in Stargirl because you didn't know what she was thinking and what she would do next.
This is still a good book, but I plan on reading Stargirl many times in the future and I probably won't ever return to this one.
One of my favorite characters from all of YA literature returns! Told from the point of view of Stargirl herself this time, the novel takes the form of a very long letter to her ex-boyfriend, Leo. Not quite as amazing as the orignal, Love, Stargirl takes a little while to get going. Spinelli seems to struggle with finding an authentic voice for his quirky but lovable character. Once he does, however, Stargirl shines as bright as ever. Reading this one, like reading the original, makes you long to know and be more like the ukulele-playing, rat-loving, solstice-celebrating Stargirl.
Three stars is more of a "grand scheme of things" than a "enjoyed in the moment" thing.
The POV is now from Stargirl and not from Leo. This changes things.
Before you see Stargirl in this almost mythical proportion, because Leo is so enamored.
When you hear things from her POV, she starts to seem more human, and slightly less magical.
I definitely enjoyed this book in the moment.
Favorite quotes: "Under each tombstone lay a memory, a dead day.
Here Lies the Day in the Enchanted Desert.
Here Lies the Day We Followed the Lady at the Mall and Made Up Her Life.
I'm not sure why because I thoroughly enjoyed the book.Love, Stargirl was just as good as Stargirl, but maybe even slightly better because this story was told by Stargirl herself in long letter/diary format.
It was a nice contrast being in her head versus being in Leo's head as he observed his confident, non-conformist girlfriend win over and then become alienated by his public high school classmates.In the second book, Stargirl has moved away and is back to being home-schooled, but it doesn't take her long to make friends in her new town.
Oh Stargirl, how I missed you.
:-)Just as good as the first book, this volume finds Stargirl one year older and a lot sadder.
Her happy bucket is almost empty of pebbles, and she is still pining for her lost love Leo. But an assortment of strange and beautiful characters in her new hometown begin to crack through her grief, and the Stargirl we know and love begins to shine through.
I would recommend this book to everyone who loved Stargirl the first time around, and who can appreciate the struggle we must all face to be true to ourselves.
The formatting was very interesting. I enjoyed getting into Stargirl's head via her journals or a letter she's writing to the boy she loves. Loved Cinnamon the rat.
آیا می شود بدون از دست دادنِ خودت، فرد مورد علاقه ات را از دست بدهی؟ -استارگرل
I cried real hard at the first half of the book.
Love, Stargirl   is the companion to Jerry Spinelli's bestselling novel   Stargirl,   this time told from the point of view of sixteen-year-old homeschooler Stargirl Caraway herself. From Arizona, the Caraways move to Pennsylvania where Stargirl starts afresh – albeit not without missing the great love of her life, Leo. In order to quell her feelings of loneliness because of the distance between her and Leo, she writes him letters: she wrote him about her new life, her new friends, her Winter
From Arizona, the Caraways move to Pennsylvania where Stargirl starts afresh – albeit not without missing the great love of her life, Leo. In order to quell her feelings of loneliness because of the distance between her and Leo, she writes him letters: she wrote him about her new life, her new friends, her Winter Solstice project, and the new boy in her life, Perry.
was told from Stargirl's own point of view, her luster and vivaciousness that leapt out at me from the first book seemed to slacken off a bit, and she almost seemed like a normal teenager to me.
Between the lines and chapters, the book spoke about the important things: love, understanding, kindness.
"The beam began to dissipate then, as the sun cleared the horizon and flooded the world with light. Still the people stayed, watching as the golden circle frayed and dissolved across the Blackbone. It reminded my of a movie that is so good the audience just sits there staring at the rolling credits after the lights go on. Suddenly the simple phrase "another day" had new meaning. In this companion book with Jerry Spinelli's Stargirl, we see the lead character stripping off of her mysteries. More
In its epistolary style, Stargirl wrote a slice-of-life in her new residence away from the Mica High - away from Leo. These episodes are compiled in a journal, planning to be sent to the first (and future ?) love.The magic within Stargirl's character has diminished from the first book (where we see her as a hippie-homeschooled-chic) but it was redeemed by the people around her, and by a significant astronimical reality - the Winter Solstice.
It's just that, for me, Stargirl is better seen as a character of hippie-homeschooled-chic, not seeing the snippets of her daily homeschooled life.(view spoiler)[It's true rating should be a 3.5.
4.5  starsbecause when she dreams of love,she dreams of smashed potatoes.&&because love makes it's own magic <3 ~ ~ ~I just have to say that I know a lot of people were/are still hesitant to read this sequelbecause it's in Stargirl's POV and knowing her thoughts and her inner workingswould mean losing her "other-worldlyness" and mysteriousness.
:)Some also say that she seems to be and behave differently from Stargirl of the first novel.Well, that's because she is!Love, Stargirl's "Stargirl" is a "post-Leo-Stargirl",a broken-hearted teenager trying to cope and make sense of the tragedy that is first love.If that's NOT a life-altering event, then I don't know what is.&& Unpopular Opinion: I liked Perry better than Leo.
I loved the book Stargirl so much that I was almost afraid to pick this one up.
I was sure a kid would die of cancer in a sorry attempt to make me cry, or Stargirl would fall in love with someone else and make me mad.This book caught me totally off guard.
And you get to hear Stargirl’s voice for the first time, which should make the female readers happy.Overall, this book was just different enough from the first one to keep it exciting but had all of the qualities that made me fall in love with Stargirl in the first place.
In this sequel, Stargirl has moved to a small Pennsylvania town and is a "homeschooler" again.
It is told from her point of view, journal style as she writes un-sent letters to Leo. Instead of being the outcast, Stargirl is in a town of unique characters and friends.
I didn't find it as honest and fun as the first one, but it is still a nice, heartwarming type book.
Jeers: 1.
Spinelli is not 100% true to the character he created in the first book 2.
character of Dootsie (annoying) 3.
getting to know and love Stargirl's parents 2.
I found the first book interesting, it was a quick read but the end left me wanting to find out more about what happened to Stargirl.
The second book is from Stargirl's perspective and is written as a series of diary entries.
I was so disappointed that most of the book was spent describing how heartbroken Stargirl was over Leo. I binged it though, and the story is still fresh in my mind, I think I might like it more if I'd spent the time to analyse and understand Stargirl better?
I put off reading this for the first few months that I knew it was out there. I always get nervous that the sequel won't live up to the original. But, alas, I was wrong. This book is just, if not, as endearing as Stargirl. Here, you get to see Stargirl inside out. Instead of just being a prairie skirted, ukelele playing object of Leo's eye, you see her point of view and the year that she spends after Leo. The characters are amazingly original and I grew to love Stargirl even more. A definite read.
Love, Stargirl was every bit as good as Stargirl. It picks up after she moves away from Arizona, and is told in the form of a very long letter to Leo. We get to know much more about her, and she is every bit as unusual and unconventional as her name.I love this story because its message is that it's okay to be different - and that being different can be wonderful. Stargirl's life isn't always easy, but her guidepost in life is being true to herself, which is a good goal for people of every age.
