https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76910.Last_Seen_Wearing
Seventeen and very well-developed, Valerie had a taste for older men and after her parents reported her missing, Valerie was never seen again and her body was never found.The police detective originally assigned to the case has continued to work it periodically, even though what little trail there was has long since gone cold.
He may have turned up a new lead, but before he could report back to his superiors, the detective was killed in an auto accident, and only a few days later, Valerie’s parents receive a letter, allegedly from their missing daughter, saying only that she is still alive and well and that her parents should not worry about her.The Superintendent now assigns the case to Chief Inspector Morse.
In this second book of the "Inspector Morse" crime mystery series, entitled  Last Seen Wearing  the cogs and wheels of Colin Dexter's brain are really beginning to revolve.
(Though both depictions of the Inspector are able to accurately complete "The Times" crossword in under 10 minutes.)I strongly suspect Dexter not only of writing his own character into that of Morse's, but also writing with a male audience in mind.
On the other hand I hope he begins to portray his female characters a little more fully in the the next book, rather than inserting adhoc sketchy stereotypes.
Morse does spent most of the time being extremely wrong: he has a theory, a new clue appears that makes it clear that it can't have happened this way.
New clue.
Repeat almost endlessly.However these wrong theories aren't comnpletely wasted, many have just a tidbit that isn't completely wrong and collecting all those tidbits finally leads to the real solution (as it turns out he was wrong about having been wrong at one point...) However at no point it feels as if Morse is just aimlessly bumbling along, having no idea what's going on.
His theories all make sense at the time.
Morse is handed the case following the death of Inspector Ainley who had just become interested following receipt of a note that Victoria was alive and did not want to be pursued.
Morse is convinced she is dead and that possibly the real killer was sending the notes in hopes the investigation will cease.
The coincidences are seemingly too much for Lewis, but as Morse points out, “It’s an odd coincidence, Lewis, that the forty-sixth word from the beginning and the forty-sixth word from the end of the Forty-sixth Psalm in the Authorised Version should spell ‘Shakespear.’ “
A girl disappeared and has been presumed dead for more than two years; but is she even dead?Reading this book was like walking through a maze: so many possible ways to go and so many of them wrong.
Okay, this is it...this is what happened; wrong again.) In a word, it was great fun.I'm particularly enjoying the development of Morse's and Lewis's relationship; Morse really does think highly of Lewis, but simply doesn't communicate that to the poor sergeant.
This was a very enjoyable read again. I had been re-reading all of the books that are on kindle and Colin Dexter died with 2 days reading left in this book, So Sad. But he created a unique and memorable set of characters that are still entertaining millions of people.
Inspector Morse gets assigned to a ‘cold’ case where a young woman who has been missing for nearly three years suddenly appears again in the form of a letter to her parents.
Morse believes that the girl is dead, and that the letter is a forgery introduced to add confusion to an already mixed up situation.
The interaction between Morse and Sgt. Lewis, his ally in the case, is meticulously developed in this book, to the point that you get to know them very well indeed.
The second Morse book puts the Inspector in a position he's not entirely comfortable with - a cold case of a missing person, rather than a murder with a body to work from.
The thing about Morse is it does really feel like he's not very good at his job and doesn't have the inclination to try any harder.
Not every detective appeals to everyone, and whilst I like the cases that he has to work with, I might leave Lewis to deal with Morse from here on in.
I've come upon a series which might have been a perfectly good read were it not for seeing the TV version first.
This is the 3rd Inspector Morse I've read and the second in the series.
(The first I read was actually the 10th, I think.
Read out of order because it was just at hand.) I have to say, I don't really like them all that much.
For one thing, there is very little I find in the least appealing or interesting about Morse.
Just a bully.
Just a bully.
And how can I take pleasure in a bully getting his own way?
Stavolta prende ben più di una cantonata e sembra perdere le speranze ogni volta che le sue intuizioni lo portano verso l'assassino (sbagliato) e il movente (mai quello).
Dalla seconda metà, dopo aver presentato caso e personaggi, ogni fine capitolo è un continuo colpo di scena e l'epilogo è una summa delle piste seguite.
L'unica cosa che mi perplime è il comportamento di Morse con l'altro sesso, assolutamente rinunciatario e "autoarchiviante".
Pur avendo i soliti pensieri alla vista di una donna, soffoca qualsiasi impulso d'iniziativa, quasi che avesse eliminato l'acchiappo dalla sua vita.
Che poi sarà mica solo indagini e cadaveri.
I’m giving the Inspector Morse mysteries by Colin Dexter a go, having never read them before.
The detective working the case concluded she had run away with a man, but now that detective is dead.
He believes the girl is dead, and so he sets out to find the murderer.
However, every time he thinks he has come close to solving the case, something happens to up-end all his suppositions.I don’t find the character of Inspector Morse very likeable in these books.
You might be interested in my review of Book 1 in the series, Last Bus to Woodstock.
3,5. Tok seg kraftig opp etter ca. 50 prosent.
Die beiden TV-Serien „Lewis – Der Oxfordkrimi“ und „Endeavour – Der junge Inspektor Morse“ nach Motiven der Kriminalromane des leider im Vorjahr verstorbenen Colin Dexter, haben mit Sicherheit bei einigen Zuschauern das Interesse an den zwischen 1985 und 1999 erschienenen literarischen Vorlagen geweckt (in der deutschen Übersetzung), die in der Zwischenzeit aber leider nur noch zu horrenden Preisen antiquarisch zu haben waren.
Aber durch diese unterschiedlichen Möglichkeiten beleuchtet er gleichzeitig sämtliche Aspekte des Falls und führt uns tief in die Gedankenwelt seines Protagonisten.„Zuletzt gesehen in Kidlington“ ist ein intelligent komponierter Kriminalroman mit einem unorthodoxen Ermittler, der neben der Aufklärung eines spannenden Vermisstenfalls jede Menge Atmosphäre transportiert.
This book no.
2 is about a missing persons case regarding the disappearance of Valerie Taylor, a pupil of Roger Bacon School in Oxford.
Morris begins like he does with crossword puzzles or jigsaw puzzles trying to fit the pieces together, always mindful that in time, "it will come".
Along with Sergeant Lewis the two slowly try to find the missing pieces and Valerie Taylor dead or alive.
I also give 5 stars to illustration by John Ireland for his modern, 1975, lively colored full of clues book cover.
Der Krimi hat schon irgendwie alles, was so in einem guten englischen Krimi drinstecken sollte.Kurze knackige Kapitel, die zum weiterlesen anregen, ein sympathisches Ermittlerduo und auch interessante Handlungsorte, denn es wird in Oxford und in London ermittelt.Auf jeden Fall ist es ein wirklich spannender Kriminalfall, der mehrere Wendungen hat und Morse zur Verzweiflung bringt. Die endgültige Auflösung ist dann wirklich überraschend.Ich bin froh, dass dies erst Band 2 ist, so einige Bände habe ich dann ja noch vor mir. :)
3.5, I'm persevering to see if the later ones improve as these early ones are very of their time, great stories as you would expect but the permeating sexism makes them difficult to read at times.
Brilliant
I prefer the characters of the TV Morse and Lewis more than those on Dexter's pages (though I've only read the first two books so far).
Maybe their 'bromance' (an ugly neologism, but a useful one in the crime-fighting genre!) will be fleshed out more as the series continues?
I liked how the plot revolved around relationships and family dynamics - maybe why Morse was so slow in catching on was at least partly due to his singleton and curmudgeonly lifestyle?
With Lewis being ill through part of the book, I can't really judge him, but, as often happened on the tv show, he was right and Morse didn't pay attention--that helps me see him become the tv series Lewis.While I did enjoy some of the twists and turns, that got old by the end.
Of course, the tv series Morse had been very good to Dexter, so maybe adopting some of the tv character for his books is understandable.I'm glad I've read some of the later books to know that I do enjoy Morse by Dexter.
I've been meaning to read the Inspector Morse mysteries for quite some time now, and when I ran across this volume at Half-Price Books, it was too hard to resist.
This book is actually the second of the thirteen novels by Colin Dexter in this series (the first one wasn't available at the HPB I was in).I didn't have any preconceived notions about the style of writing, etc.
It really keeps you guessing, and as a die-hard mystery fan, that's really the best I can ask of a story.I will definitely read the balance of this series of books.
That said, I highly recommend these novels (and this one in particular) to any serious lovers of mysteries.
Inspector Morse has been assigned the case to learn the truth.I read principally for character.
When I don’t like the characters, I have a hard time getting through the book.
Other than his love of opera, there was little to like about Morse.
Sgt Lewis is strictly a side kick and given little notice at all.
Rather than real investigation being done there are a huge number of coincidences.
The “procedure” of an investigation is seems disregarded at worst and is sloppy at best.
Morse-England-Cont) – PoorDexter, Colin – 2nd in series	PAN Books, ©1976, UK Paperback – ISBN: 0330251481
This is a very good book that unravels the efforts it can actually take to get to the conclusion of a mystery.
Dexter does a tremendous job of building the character.A note about other comments I read here and the televised version: The original book is from the 1970s without the typical censorship you find in today's books about how people really are and think.
The real contrast to time periods comes in the teleplay of the tv episode in which characters are spun into stereotypes of mean, powerful developers, sexual confusion and the like.
I guess Dexter accepted it all.Bottom line: I recommend the book - not the televised version.
Actually, I started it about a week ago, but got bored so read P.D. James Shroud for a Nightingale.
I have one more Dexter to read, and at that point I will make a final decision.
Here is what I like: I like that he (Morse) has scholarly interests.
More importantly, I like that he has flights of fancy and is often wrong and wrong again and wrong again.
I also like his "sidekick" Lewis.
I find Morse's smoking, drinking, and casual misogyny incredibly boring, and his misplaced arrogance offputting.
As Morse and Lewis take on the case, Morse keeps tying himself up in knots so twisted it becomes difficult to make out one end from the other.
Add a dead body along the way and its gets even better!
Morse ends up not just building a plausible theory against every suspect in the case but accusing most of them.
In the end one of the theories turns out to be the right one.
Morse is the perfect anti-Holmes, more a Clouseau in his techniques; I liked the level-headed Lewis better.
As you read through the book, you follow Morse into every blind alley...
Morse systematically screws the pooch in any way he can, and Sergeant Lewis is left to pick up the pieces (indeed, he comes much closer to solving the case than his superior.) Mind you, I can't really blame either one of them for feeling thwir way through the dark, when the case seems needlessly convoluted all by itself.
While it's refreshing to read a detective novel where the star character is portrayed as a human being who sometimes screws up and doesn't always have all the answers, there were points in the novel where I begam to wonder how Morse made inspector in the first place.
There are two elements that raise Last Seen Wearing above usual police procedural fare.
Dexter maps out a wonderfully constructed story of feints and blind alleys as Morse stumbles from one line of reasoning to another, his theories constantly dashed on the rocks of empirical evidence.
Every time it appears he has found a path forward, it turns into a cul-de-sac.
Morse and Lewis are both well drawn, somewhat complex and paradoxical characters.
Morse, for example, is both cultured and coarse, buying the Sunday Times and the News of the World as his Sunday papers and dragging Lewis into a strip club on a visit to London.
Another detective was working on this cold case but died in an auto accident and Morse is assigned it.
He is quite dismayed not to have a homicide case but eventually finds this to be a complex mystery.
He has probably thought of every scenario possible from the missing girl being alive and/or dead to various teachers and academics playing a role, along w/ her parents in either her demise or aiding in her disappearance.
Ainsley is dead, and Morse has inherited his cold case, the disappearance of a teenager several years ago. Morse is convinced that the girl is dead, although a letter to her parents arrived right after Ainsley's accident. This is early Morse, and he arrives at a variety of solutions to the problems raised by this case--is Valerie alive? Was she murdered? By whom?--each one of which is later exploded. The ending seems a bit unclear, but watching the building of the relationship between Morse and Lewis is worth the trip.
Alla seconda lettura, dopo un paio di decenni dalla prima, i gialli di Colin Dexter mostrano un pochino la corda: l'essere intrappolati in quel limbo cronologico tra la contemporaneità e l'età aurea del giallo inglese (prima metà del novecento, a mio modo di vedere) li fa avvertire polverosi più che classici. Ciò premesso, rimangono comunque un esempio chiarissimo di mistery britannico, con il suo studio dei caratteri e i continui twist investigativi. Sarebbero più corrette le tre stelle e mezzo, ma per l'affetto verso E. Morse arrotondo volentieri per eccesso.
Below is my review from when i last read these books. The latest season of Endeavour has prompted me to reread them.They are even more poignant now. I'll admit it. I've had a Morse shaped crush since I was 14. 2008 reviewThe one with the girl who might not be dead after all, and Morse almost falls in love.
