https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48287.Norwood
Part of the American Vintage Contemporaries series published back in the 1980s, this road novel by Charles Portis features 23-year old guitar pluckin’ ex-marine Norwood Pratt who lives (if you call this living) way down in the grit of rural East Texas.
On Norwood’s Sister’s New Husband Coming To Live In Norwood’s House“Then with absolutely no warning Vernell married a disabled veteran named Bill Bird and brought him home to live in the little house on the highway.” --------- Vintage poor people: Vernell does what she damn well pleases and now that she’s married, she has her new husband move in, Norwood be damned.
I agonized over whether to give Norwood three or four stars—which tells me three things: (1) I’m prone to exaggeration; (2) I really need to get a life; and (3) Goodreads should add half-star ratings instead of worrying about retarded mascot contests and adding mostly pointless Facebookish features to the site which inevitably cause that damnable Alice picture/Bertrand Russell quote to show up (again!).
The point is clearly in just the storytelling for Portis, but I kind of wanted a little something more than just mindless entertainment.
Here's an eerie coinkydink - I finished this almost exactly a year to the day that I finished The Dog of the South.
This one, Portis's first novel, reminded me SO much of The Dog of the South.
Our hero, Norwood Pratt, could have been the prototype for Dog's Raymond Earl Midge.
Both men are earnest and plain spoken, single-minded in their determination to retrieve what's rightfully theirs: Norwood's seventy dollars, owed to him by a military buddy and Raymond Earl's runaway, cheating wife.
She didn't know what a B was.""They put butter on ham sandwiches up there," he said.(Smooth, Norwood.
Portis writes the most uncluttered prose imaginable and employs a deceptively simple style, yet he has the eye of a poet.
She was a heavy, sleepy girl with bad posture.” I’m not going to give a blow by blow account of what happens in Norwood, how it starts and ends in Ralph, Texas and all the humorous stuff that happens in between - it’s a slim read, find out for yourself.
It's a perfect little novel you really could read in a single sitting.
One thing that struck me about this novel I must say is its prodigious yet fascinatingly casual use of the 'n-word' for a book published in 1966.
I nkow the book is set in the mid-1950s, but I still found it to be a bold (but to my mind certainly not racist) move during the ascendancy of the Black Power movement.
Maybe it didn't even register at the time, but I have to say it struck me in its historical context of a literary book from the mid-1960s.
This is the best one to read if you only read one other Portis novel besides ‘True Grit.’ Everyone should read ‘True Grit.’In a charming first novel, Portis establishes his mastery of language, in particular the Texarkana vernacular, of well-chosen detail that goes beyond apparent mundane triviality and really captures the American ambience as well as the human condition, and of pitch-perfect dialogue.Norwood Pratt—another one of Portis’s strengths is names—is the title character, a poor, ignorant redneck who’s also a philosopher and philanthropist.
The three things that stand out is the specificity of the language, the dryness of the humor, and the protagonist's heroic transformation in spite of making bad decisions at every turn.
In life, I run from these kinds of people: guided by other people's perceptions of the right thing to do, but it's this rightness that makes the story taut.
These kinds of characters present countless opportunities for humor.
We've all known people like this, who make us see the humor in our situations when we can't.
The humor is lost on poor Norwood, but not on the reader.
Portis is interested in all the little details of ordinary, not-always-so-bright folks struggling with their drives and limitations, their idees fixes and confusion about the world.
Like many of his other books (True Grit, Dog of the South), this is a story about a quest: Norwood's quest to find the man who owes him seventy dollars.
That seventy dollars drives the story all the way to New York and back, through a cast of Portis's usual vivid, hilarious characters.
This one is a little slighter than Dog of the South, and a little lighter.

Funnier than throwing a hardboiled egg into an electric fan, this reads like the bastard son of Flannery O'Connor and John Fergus Ryan.
i dont know how charles portis will sound/read to someone not as proximate to the world his characters move through, but god damn i love the dude.some illustrative joy:Tilmon said “Tee-hee-hee.” His tongue fell out as if to receive a coin.The bread man began to rumble with quiet laughter.
She looked at the dime and nickel in his hand.There was a man in a Mr. Peanut outfit in front of the Planters place but he was not giving out sample nuts, he was just walking back and forth.
It looked thick enough to give protection against small arms fire.“Do they pay you by the hour or what?” Norwood said to the monocled peanut face.
Charles Portis is one of the best writers I never heard of. His snappy dialogue bounces off the page, carrying the action along with it just as fast as you please. If I lingered here to describe this hilarious caper from Texas to New York and back, and the nutty characters Norwood meets along the way, including a chicken liberated from a penny arcade, it would just spoil the fun. A truly American novel not to be missed.
This book is so much fun :) Norwood, who wants to be a singer, accepts a task to take two cars to NY and then come back to Texas. During the trip, he meets a series of memorable characters.
I probably shouldn't think about this book in comparison to True Grit, but I can't shake the image of Mattie Ross when I think about Norwood Pratt.
If Mattie is a little wittier and a little wiser, it doesn't change the fact that they're both cut from the same cloth.I greatly enjoyed Norwood's quirky cast of characters, but felt let down by the story, which never manages to graduate from being a series of humorous anecdotes to becoming a cohesive whole.
Most tellingly, while there is plenty of change in Norwood's life, there isn't much in the way of personal growth.
Charles Portis' Norwood is a strange, strange, little endearing story about a guy named Norwood going on a mini-adventure from Ralph, Texas to New York City and back. Along the way he meets a midget, wins a girl's heart, and steals a fortune telling chicken. I don't really know what to make of it and I can't explain why, but it made me literally laugh out loud at some points. It shouldn't be good, really. But it is thoroughly enjoyable. Now I have to face the dilemma of which of his other novels to read.
Slim debut by Charles Portis. Some deem this his distilled best, but for me it's a run-up for fuller and more satisfying works to come like DOG OF THE SOUTH. Imagine Flannery O'Connor stripped of the Catholicism and violence and you're partway there. Portis's sense of humor is gentler, but just as strange.
I finished this book yesterday.
It's by the dude that wrote True Grit.
The guy has a gift with southern dialogue.
The main character is almost like a Forrest Gump precursor but not as dumb.
But he is pretty aloof.
I think they made a movie in the 60s with Joe Namath and Glenn Campbell or whoever.
This dialogue cracked me up in some parts.
This one is basically just about a dude who drives a car up to New York and then takes a bus back.
Which doesn't sound like much of a plot.
But it's just about weird characters that he meets along the way.

Mr. Portis can sure put a sentance together, and I enjoy his quirky characters. This is a fairly aimless story, more about people and events than plot. Which is an enjoyable aspect of all the Portis novels that I've read.
Good. Very Like Tobacco Road.
A well-meaning hick travels to New York City in pursuit of a 70$ debts, with various misadventures arising en route. Very funny, like everything else Portis writes, though my absolute and unswerving commitment to honesty in all things compels me to admit I do wish Portis demonstrated a bit more ambition in this and last month’s Dogs of the South, both of which are kind of lacking in plot or even much by way of point.
Charles Portis' first novel, Norwood, is a rambling adventure story about a countryfied Arkansas ex-Marine, Norwood Pratt, who goes on a journey to NY to deliver two cars and find his Marine buddy who owes him money.
Along the way he meets the world's second shortest midget, steals the college-educated chicken Joann and finds love on a bus with a girl named Rita Lee. It's the characters that really make this story work.
Norwood tells Edmund (the midget) that when he goes to Hollywood he might find work in an Erskine Caldwell movie.
Norwood Pratt, ex-Marine, mechanic at the Nipper Oil station, fed-up, throws a breakfast sausage at sister Vernell's layabout new husband ex-Army Yankee Bill Bird, packs his guitar, and takes $50 from fast-talker Grady Fring, to drive one car, towing another, from Ralph, Texas to New York City.
(view spoiler)[ Norwood loses his shiny new boots on a flour bag freight train car, regains $75, promptly loans $50 to Edmund.
Rita Lee's ex shipped out, so she accepts his marriage proposal and stays for now, with Joann, but Edmund scarpers, leaving an address in Hollywood.
Dat typisch Amerikaanse manifesteert zich niet via seks, geweld en oppervlakkigheid, maar door de Americana, de reis door de buik van het land, het Amerika van Flannery O’Connor en Mark Twain, een wereld die het midden lijkt te houden tussen de geschifte onzin van A Confederacy Of Dunces en de wereldvreemde halvegaren van de komische Coen-films.Het heeft iets van een onwaarschijnlijke road movie, waarbij de anti-held, de van bescheiden intelligentie voorziene pompstationbediende Norwood, die de ambitie koestert om het te maken als countryzanger, het land doorkruist om in New York 70 dollar te gaan innen, en onderweg in aanraking komt met misdadigers, een dwerg, hobo’s, zijn toekomstige en… een gediplomeerde kip.
In it Norwood Pratt is a country-bumpkin former Marine who settles back in the small town of Ralph, Texas.
Opportunity knocks in the form of former lawyer-turned-entrepreneur Grady Fring who hires Norwood to drive two cars from Ralph up to NYC and take along a woman named Yvonne Phillips.
Apologies for any who wanted to be surprised about Norwood or the people he meets on his seemingly convoluted mission.
This book is much about Norwood and his journey and is not so much the people but the journey en whole.
By that I mean that "Norwood" is nothing particularly special, making the follow-up stand out even more.
It's not that Portis doesn't know his way around a sentence - he most certainly does - but rather that I found the purposefully aimless quality of our protagonist (the Norwood of the title) increasingly grating.
We follow our hero, freshly discharged from the marines, as he makes his way from Texas to New York and back again, picking up, along the way, friends, enemies, a fiancée, and even a trained chicken.
Read it if you absolutely must read more Portis; otherwise, no need to bother.
Since I read The Dog of the South first, even though Norwood was actually his first book I kept thinking "gee, this reminds of The Dog of the South", but this is a little different.
It seems to have a little more loose energy in it, more reminiscent of On the Road.
Even though it was very funny (check out the boots scene on the train, or Norwood's fights with his sister's boyfriend), I don't know if I would have read his other works if I'd found it first, just because even though it has his trademark deadpan voice and great dialogue (yet again, if you've ever spent any time in the south you will recognize all these people instantly), the book doesn't quite have the heights that the other did.
I put all of Charles Portis's novels in my Goodreads queue after watching the documentary about him on the True Grit Blu-Ray. Starting with the first, Norwood comes across as the hillbilly On the Road.
While I got really bored with Kerouac, Portis was able to keep me hooked in, despite the fact that Norwood's journey is so much smaller in scope.
In the end, I guess it was all about Norwood heading out in the world to find something without knowing what he's looking for, and finding it anyway.
Listening to talented actors read Portis aloud is like reading Shakespeare your whole life and then learning that you can see the plays performed: the experience is so much more enjoyable.
Barrett Whitener reads Norwood perfectly: he captures the phony chumminess of Grady Fring the Kredit King, the affectations of Edmund B.
More than once I was listening to this as I walked around the neighborhood and started laughing out loud.
The audio version forces you to slow down during the dialogue--and that's 90% of what makes Norwood funny in the first place.
Cute.
Quirky.
Parsimonious comedic storytelling -- Portis has an ear for colloquial dialogue and an eye for setting a scene in a few telling details.
As someone else points out, Norwood Pratt often reminded me of Norville Barnes (from the Coen brothers' beloved film The Hudsucker Proxy, though this Nor-tragic-hero isn’t lucky enough to have any sort of accidental brush with fame and fortune).
More conflict, more revelation of true character, more bizarro-zarro encounters, more story.
Pratt is a juicy, endearing character that deserved a vast expansive adventure, and certainly a more satisfying ending.
