https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479561.The_Neutronium_Alchemist
This tale starts right where the previous installment ended and this means a middle of the action.
The said action is going on for the whole book (my edition has 1273 pages) with some very occasional much-needed slowdowns.
Add to this interesting characters and some surprising appearances of unexpected guest stars (there is no way in hell I am going to spoil this) and my rating will not come as a big surprise.
People say the last book is fairly bad and if they are right it would be a shame after such a great start.
It’s a brobdingnagian story, to be sure, and the very fact that Hamilton even comes close to pulling it off is very, very impressive.
On the other hand, I don’t care a whole lot for the way he holds his readers hostage: was that a cliffhanger or what?Thematically, the story does strike a few weird chords, but it’s all cool.
There is often a tremendous sense of futility to the story, which does mar the reading experience, because you can’t help but feel that any relief that might be forthcoming may only be 1000 pages from now, or, even worse, only in the next book.
Continuând acțiunea din Disfuncția realității,  Alchimistul neutronic  dezvăluie un univers terifiant în care realitatea sufletelor ce revin din lumea de dincolo este acceptată atât la nivelul Confederației, cât și de către Consensul edenist. Aparent invincibili, posedații se împrăștie cu o viteză halucinantă pe mai multe planete adamiste, încercând să distorsioneze realitatea pentru a le muta în altă dimensiune. În același timp, ca și cum lupta înspăimântătoare a oamenilor împotriva posedaților
dezvăluie un univers terifiant în care realitatea sufletelor ce revin din lumea de dincolo este acceptată atât la nivelul Confederației, cât și de către Consensul edenist.
În același timp, ca și cum lupta înspăimântătoare a oamenilor împotriva posedaților precum și amenințarea reprezentată de miliardele de suflete ce nu și-au găsit pacea nu ar fi de ajuns, în scenă apare Alchimistul, o armă ce poate nărui și stelele, dorită atât de diversele organizații politice, cât și de posedați.Explorând cu subtilitate atitudinea oamenilor față de moarte și confruntarea acestora cu certitudinea că existența umană nu ia sfârșit deodată cu dispariția fizică, Peter F.
This 2nd book (©1997) of the Nights Dawn trilogy suffers badly in it's first 1/4 by repeats of "fantasy" battles between humans and the magically-overpowered Possessed on the ground.
I also chose to skip over Quinn's sections of book #2.4.
At least in book #2 we are mostly spared the graphically depicted abuse and murder of children: HOLY CRAP Hamilton!
The last half of the book I found I needed to skip less material, and the last 1/4 was very good indeed, with surprises by the Kiint et al.Overall, I am glad I stuck with (much) of the book.
I read the The Reality Dysfunction, the first book of the Night's Dawn Trilogy  in August 2012, I just finished this second volume The Neutronium Alchemist on December 13, 2013.
He also has a great eye for minutiae, like this little scene from a possessed character’s view point: “Once he’d actually thrown up after transforming sachets of bread into chocolate gateau – he hadn't removed the foil wrapping first.”The Neutronium Alchemist, like The Reality Dysfunction before it, is not a book to read for edification.
I like Peter Hamilton's stuff, I really do.
I didn't like The Neutronium Alchemist.
It wasn't terrible...merely 'okay'.
Which is terrible for a 1200 page book.
Plus I felt I only picked up a few important developments in the storyline during the 2 months it took me to read it.
After such a deathmarch, I retain only a sense of personal accomplishment, not admiration for the author.
[Deep breath].
Okay, I feel better.
Looking ahead, there is a very good story cooking in the Night's Dawn series.
I step into The Naked God with excited apprehension.
I'll report back in another 2 months.
Man... I love this series. It's what got me into Sci-Fi, and Space Opera in the first place, and I am very happy to conclude that all my good memories have been vindicated and even improved upon. I'm sure this series isn't for everyone, and if I had come across it today and read the synopsis I'd have been very skeptical, but damn. It's such a entertaining adventure across space. I am hooked, and loving it
...Hamilton raises the stakes in The Neutronium Alchemist, as a middle book is supposed to do. It does more or less suffer from the same problems as the previous novel though. Bloated, repetitive and not very demanding. Although Hamilton tries to make it a multi-faceted conflict, he avoids the really big issue in the story in favour of politics and battles. That might be fine with some readers. I would have liked a little more from this novel but after The Reality Dysfunction, that was hardly what one could expect....Full Random Comments review
I only finished this book because I took it on a s personal challenge having invested 1500+ pages into the series.
If I had started with the Night's Dawn I doubt I'd have stuck with him for his future books.
In the end I stopped caring whenever a character appears whose name I can't remember.
Even when I couldn't remember a character's previous appearance(s) and back story I just kept reading without going back.
Hamilton might think he was a genius to bring back Al Capone as the main protagonist in sci-fi space opera set 500 years in the future.
The main reason I kept reading is that the price/time ratio of these books can’t be beat--they cost the same as a mass market paperback and each one kept me busy for weeks.
The second volume of the series had all the problems of the first, but it lacked the novelty of introducing new worlds and technologies.
Some of the new plot points were rather cringeworthy, such as when one planet is taken over by a cartoonlike reincarnation of Al Capone.
Unless someone swears up and down that the third book is the best, I think I’m going to read the summary of it off Wikipedia and leave it at that.
After seeing this novel impressively attracting attention in most libraries and the impressive array of praise in the the first few pages, I read the preceding volume "The Reality Dysfunction" and was looking forward to finding out what happened after all the work that was put into creating the characters and the universe this series was set on."The Neutronium Alchemist" starts off more or less where "The Reality Dysfunction" ended with the spirits of long dead people rampantly seeking out living bodies to possess and the chaos that ensues on one planet at least.Whereas the first novel had suspense and admirable world building, this second installment is disjointed in structure and actually really daft in an unenjoyable way with some really lazy recycled science-fiction cliches that have been done to death by many others many years ago.The title is a misnomer.
How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the TrilogyI had some misgiving about the first book, The Reality Dysfunction, especially concerning the sexual politics in what was supposed to be, in some sense, utopian science fiction (see  my review ).Happily, a lot of the stuff I didn't like about the first one is absent or at least toned down a lot in the second one.
Maybe it's just because this is the second in a trilogy, but I had less of a sense that this was all coming together than I did at the end of the first one.
An epic space opera about the here and the hereafter and what happens when souls from the hereafter (called the beyond in the book) come back and possess the bodies of the living.The Kavanagh sisters, Louise and Genevieve, know they have to leave Norfolk after they narrowly miss being possessed like the rest of their family.
With the help of Fletcher Christian (of Mutiny on the Bounty infamy) they do eventually get off the planet.In New California most of the 40 million inhabitants are possessed however the main organizer soon realizes that they need some non possessed people to run the infrastructure.
However, I'm at the point where I really think that the whole Night's Dawn series was actually written as one big tome of an epic, and the publishers decided to break it into three (or six, as you decided to buy them) novels just for the sake of the spine.
I feel like I could be reading a tome about WWII at this point, although I think an author would have selected fewer POVs for an actual history book to avoid confusing his reader.I'm finding the meat of the series interesting in and of themselves; we don't often deal with religions in science fiction that are not utterly imaginary, unless it's a Christian Sci-Fi novel, which I steer clear of.
This series was very hard for me to read.
I loved Greg Mandel and wanted to love this series but in the end it left me confused at times, frustrated here and there, bored, and finally angry with the conclusion of the series.
In the end I will say I just barely liked this series.
The characters and ideas are interesting but the story was incredibly slow and boring.
I think Greg Mandel series did a much better job marrying the 2 than this series did.
The ending was incredibly predictable and I feel is ruined the whole thing for me.
I hoped the story (continued from Reality Dysfunction) would improve, since I enjoyed both the Commonwealth Saga and the Void Saga. But the characters of this story I either dislike or don't care about, and the plot is page after page of rape and torture. I may be a thousand or so pages into this saga, but it is just not worth continuing.
Too long, too slow, too many characters: There was just enough additional mystery added for me to want to read the final volume.
If the second part of a trilogy is supposed to be the weakest link, this one is in no way disappointing.
It might just be that the serie is too "high tech for the sake of high tech" for my taste, in which case I know I'll be disappointed by the third volume too - and then will have lost a loooooooooot of time.Unless that third volume is a blast, we're pretty far from the quality of P K Dick or Simmons' work, whose stories can be read at so many different levels, combine so many different plots, are much more metaphorical, intertwine many more elements (love, religion, memories, imperfection of human nature, salvation...) whereas this is a one layered cake of big tech jimbo meets space travel meets action sequence meets the devil....it lacks of subtlety.
This is book 2 of a trilogy (or books 3-4 of a hexology if you buy the paperbacks) and it continues the space opera starting with The Reality Dysfunction.
Call me simple, but I feel like the author is complicating my life.(view spoiler)[I rolled my eyes when I realized that all the dead were coming back to life, but I went apoplectic when Al Capone emerged as a major character.
Come on.So pretty much the only reason to read this book is to get from book 1 to book 3 of the trilogy.
I started out loving The Night's Dawn Trilogy, lots of sex and violence, but as the hundreds of pages slogged by, I became more and more frustrated with the pacing of the whole series and the story lines that had nothing to do with the main plot.
There are SO many characters that a hundred pages could go by without coming back to a particular character's story line (and in the meantime you've forgotten what happened to him/her).
I kept saying to myself, "These people can't be this stupid!" And then there was ending...
That was how mad I was at the ending.
Yet, this 2nd part was pretty ridiculous.
Al Capone coming back from the dead was quite a stupid idea I thought, and the bulk of the book was "run away from possessed, reach new planet, possessed catch up, run away from possessed" etc etc...And yet, the pure terror of the threat that you felt in the first book is completely nullified in this book, as the humans enter negotiations with the possessed, as some possessed are revealed to be not entirely unsavoury, and even some of the possessed powers are cancelled out by human technology.The only thing keeping me interested is the whole mystery of what the heck actually happens after you die in this world, and why souls are returning.
As a novel, The Neutronium Alchemist was not satisfying. Essentially, it is a cliffhanger stretched to one thousand pages, little more than busywork necessary to advance through the trilogy. If I had not come to this series long after it was published--giving me the option to read all three one after the other--I doubt I would have bothered waiting for the third. The investment of time and effort necessary to read this tome pays nothing--it is just a pause between the first and third novels. It only warrants a second star because it was, generally, written well.
This took me a real long time to finish...1,2k pages Peter F. Hamilton. But it was totally worth it. After the huge setup of the world and the many, many story arcs and characters in the first book, this one felt really fluent right from the start. The story is just monumental epic and it's easy to lose track of what is happening where. I'm not really a fan of the reality disjunction concept, but interested to see where Hamilton will lead the story in the third book.
Having gotten 43% of the way through this book, I realized two things:1. I'd already read this book years ago.2. The magic was gone.On to the next one.
All those dangling threads are picked up but not until the story has thoroughly explored two new main characters.Warning: If you haven’t read ‘The Reality Dysfunction’ and care at all about plot twists, stop reading now.
From that point on there are three entirely separate notable storylines that are clearly developing by the half way point; notorious scientist and inventor of the doomsday weapon ‘The Alchemist’ Doctor Alkad Mzu, who had a minor role in the first book, has escaped her prison and is attempting to get revenge on the planet which destroyed her home world.
It is up to Captain Joshua Calvert to recapture Mzu before the possessed claim her.We also learn a little more about the enigmatic Elder Race, the Kiint, and follow the insane Quinn Dexter as he slowly but surely makes his way back toward Earth and his revenge on Banneth, the woman who had him deported.Hamilton entwines all these threads (and more) so effortlessly and entertainingly that the 1200 plus pages seem to fly by and one is left wanting more.It is difficult to say exactly what it is about Hamilton’s Confederation that is so seductive, but it is a Universe one would be happy to live in (though perhaps not on Earth or one of the Frontier planets).
No, no, NOOO!*some continuum is ruptured, allowing for the return of tortured souls to possess the living an exhibit abilities like: causing technology to fail around them, manipulating appearances/matter, torturing the living so they can be possessed, and eventually whisking the planet they have taken over out of the universe!
Now we have to wait a little longer to....Dysfunction...The...Reality!*Meanwhile, somewhere in Spaaaaaaace*Grand Satanist: I shall have my vengeance!And now, our featured presentation:The Neutronium Alchemist continues the saga of a Confederation of several human inhabited planets/asteroids/self-aware-space stations as they struggle against the dead who are returning from the beyond!
So good, very tempted to jump right into the next book
The novel's central plot is focused on Alkhad Mzu, which if you've read the Reality Dysfuntion you should recognize.
I will admit, some of the personalities that have come back from 'the grave' may seem a little campy at first but they are indeed historical figures and add an additional layer of entertainment to the saga.This isn't just The Reality Dysfunction Part 2.
Those are staples of Hamilton's books.
While different than The Reality Dysfunction in terms of pacing and content (less set up, more action and changes in locale) it's no less entertaining.
The second epic part of Hamilton's epic-length epic about an epic war in an epic science fiction future.
Did I mention that it's epic?
Because it is pretty epic.
Hamilton's space opera is filled with larger than life characters, dramatic escapes, technicolor explosions, super-future tech -- described in plenty of loving technobabble -- and plots within plots within plots.
(Spoilers follow)Among the multiple plotlines, the central story is the rise of various factions of the Possessed across the human universe.
A fascinating concept, although Capone's dialogue can be, at times, reeeeeeally cheesy -- one of the downfalls of Hamilton's writing.
