https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116040.Voices_in_Summer
It was short, and I read it in two days.Laura is a quiet but lovely lady in her late thirties that is the second wife of Alec, he has his baggage and we witness the way in which Laura finds her place in his world, and the new family becomes one.
A lovely range of secondary characters that you want to meet; Eve the lady of the house who nurtures everyone and everything she comes across, Gerald the retired Admiral that runs his house in an orderly way but lots of love, Ivan his stepson who is a rogue but such a nice guy, Drusilla the flautist and her bare bummed chubby baby Lachlan.
She describes Cornwall, a world in which everyone gardens, lives comfortably, dips in the ocean, builds comfy fires in the evening, and knows the neighbors, and she does it in a way that makes you feel you belong to this place where you have never been.The weather was changing, the barometer dropping.
Doors slammed and windows rattled, and sheets and pillowcases and Joshua’s nappies flapped and bellied on the washing line, making a noise like badly set sails.I can see the wash on the line and feel the wind whipping the sea, and I want to go stand outside and catch the breeze on my face and smell the salt in the air.I knew who the culprit was going to be (although I got the reason wrong), and I figured on the slight romantic twist, but it didn’t matter at all.
Rosamunde Pilcher's shorter books are like curling up on the couch with your favorite blanket--A bit predictable maybe but you won't be disappointed, you know there will be a happy ending, and it won't take you forever to read it! They are just comfort-reads to me. I gave this 4 stars because of this!
Like Nicholas Sparks, Rosamunde Pilcher stories are all formed from a predetermined list of setting, character types, and events--not a bad thing, as both authors' success shows. If you're still reading, here are the ingredients for any charming Rosamunde Pilcher story: 1)Cornwall or Scotland, sometimes both. 2)Female orphan at center of story, who has no money worries (and neither does anyone else). 3)Multiple generations, often bohemians among the younger folks. 4)An impromptu house party at the modest ancestral home. 5)Long-lost relatives and/or childhood friends reunited. 6)Everyone neatly paired off at the story's end.
By the time I finished reading this book for a second time, I felt like I had enjoyed a wonderful holiday in Cornwall. Rosamunde Pilcher had the ability, with all the details and great characters, of absorbing you right into the scene. I particularly loved her "bigger" novels, Shell Seekers, Winter Solstice, Coming Home and September, but the earlier "smaller" books are also a treat to read and withstand subsequent readings beautifully.
Rosamunde Pilcher can write!
If you are headed to the beach or the pool this summer, consider tucking this little gem in your tote bag.
Pilcher's simple, yet elegant writing style makes for an easy and relaxing read.
The heroine of the story, Laura Haverstock, takes a detour from her original summer plans and discovers the delights of Tremenheere instead.
I will definitely be reading more of what Rosamunde Pilcher has to offer; just as soon as I have a bowl of raspberries in the closest thing to Cornish cream I can get my hands on!
A delightful little novel by a wonderful author about family, relationships, friendships, the making and breaking of them and second chances. Set mostly in Pilcher's Cornwall, with her splendid descriptions, this is not a soppy or hot romance but a very pleasant, light and easy read.
She has a penchant for drawing you into her stories~ they are quiet, charming, and her characters feel like close friends by the end of the novel.
Voices in Summer is a shorter novel, and it is here we are introduced to Laura Haverstock.
Pilcher breaks up this story into sections based on the homes that Alec and Laura have lived in or visited.
Each name is charming, and we learn a little more about the different characters as they appear throughout the book.
My favourite home was Tremenheere ( where Laura recovered)~ it was a charming, warm, cozy atmosphere.
Newlywed Laura Haverstock goes to Cornwall to convalesce after an operation.
She stays with her new husband's relatives while he is away fishing in Scotland.
Laura is Alec's second wife and has had trouble fitting in with his group of lifelong friends, feeling a little bit like the second Mrs. deWinter.
As she regains her health she also strengthens her resolve to solve the problems in her marriage.
As usual, Rosamunde Pilcher draws her readers into her beautiful settings and into the lives of her charming characters with her magical descriptive prose.
Reading about the stunning beaches and picturesque countryside makes me want to visit Cornwall.
Very enjoyable. Review to follow.
This book is about Laura and Alec, a married couple very different in backgrounds. Laura has some health problems and cannot go on an already planned trip with her husband. So her husband takes the trip and takes Laura to his brothers home in Tremeheree. Here Laura learns a great deal about herself and has the time of her life. She learns she is stronger than she ever thought and how very much family and friends mean to one another.Noteworthy moments and quotes from the book:"The difficult we can do at once, the impossible may take a little longer."
An older booky by Rosamunde Pilcher. They are most always a smooth read which this one was. I must read in the summertime as the title suggests.
Hvad kan jeg sige? Det er sommerferie 🤷🏼♀
Hvad kan jeg sige? Det er sommerferie 🤷🏼‍♀️
Love Rosamunde Pilcher!
Enjoyed and Rosamunde's books are easy to read with a lovely story line and message. I reread this book. First time I read was in April 1992. Reread in 2010. Enjoyed as much the second time.
Pilcher has an uncanny way of making her readers feel as if they are living amongst her characters, curling up with them in comfy chairs, picnicking with them on a rocky shore, having tea in their kitchens with water poured from kettles heated on an old Aga. The characters were so well described and fleshed out.
I am so happy I found this little gem on the top shelf of my living room library bookshelves, only to discover I had not read it, despite owning it since 1985.
It was waiting there for me to discover all these years later, to bring me so much joy for the few days I spent reading it.
This is the first Rosamunde Pilcher book I have read.
People have recommended The Shell Seekers as a great read, however I found this little novel in an op shop and thought I'd give it a go.
I really enjoyed it, even if it is quite dated (written in 1984).
Yes, Laura is a needy whining wife, and the London friends were stuck up and boring, but it's a character driven story, with lots of relationship misunderstandings and interesting twists.
I love stories set in Cornwall and I wish also I had an eccentric relative living in a beautiful estate on the Cornish coast.
3.5 charming stars for this novel, full of Pilcher's lush language and scenery, colorful characters, and (beloved) formula. True to form, we have an orphan, an inherited estate, instant love, and Cornwall. I'd rate this as one of the better novellas among her early writing. You can see the "bones" of future books like September and Shell Seekers.
To me, its the characters who carry the weight of the tale in a Rosamude Pilcher book.The adventure opens with the introduction of Laura Haverstock, wife of co-main character Alec Haverstock.
Pilcher lays the foundation of the later story by providing a tight account of Alec's past, and then moves the tale to the Cornish coast estate of Tremenheere, where Laura convalesces following a surgical procedure.
As the age-old healing power of sun, time, good food and good company begin to work on Laura's frail body, she gains a sense of self-confidence and peace; personal progress aided by Tremenheere family member Ivan Ashby.
I admit that I read this book in less than 24 hours.
I love Rosamunde Pilcher books!
There was a bit of letter writing with oddly matching letters accusing different people of being with other partners in this novel that brought to mind another of her books that I read some time ago.
For a minute I even thought I was rereading the same book.
That book was about a bereft, special woman.
I could sink into her books.
I think I read most of Pilcher’s books years ago, but this escaped my notice until now.
It isn’t as good or substantial as her later, longer novels, but still a good read.
However, her reason for not going is because she is recuperating from surgery, and needs a place to stay while Alec is gone.
Alec drives her to Cornwall to the home of his uncle, where she finds peace and quiet and a very welcoming host family.
I want to go back and read some of her longer novels again.
This book was too light and unbelievable for me.
Maybe I could settle in and just go for the ride if I was of a different generation?
The characters did things that did not stay true to their characters.
They were flat and underdeveloped.
The characters' lives were so completely soap opera like and scandalous, i couldn't get past it.
Things became slightly more bearable when they got to Cornwall, because the setting was so charming and picturesque.
Read this for book club, and it was a fast read, or i wouldn't have read it.
Just not my cup of tea, I guess.
The first page of any Rosamunde Pilcher is akin to settling yourself into the comfiest of arm chairs. Her writing is so very readable, especially if you love Cornwall, & I was hooked after one paragraph. This was a quickie, read in two sessions with Pilcher's characterisations at their best and Cornwall coming to life through her descriptions. The 'whodunnit' aspect was slightly irritating though,with a predictable outcome, but otherwise a relaxing, thoroughly enjoyable, light read.
A new bride, who is the 2nd wife of an older man, has surgery done and cannot travel with her husband on his vacation in Scotland. She goes to recuperate at the home of her husband's uncle in Cornwall. She has much time to think, and observe those around her. She comes to some new discoveries about herself and those around her. Pilcher's characters are always very English, very proper, and not ones to create waves.
The most beautifully written book I have ever read however the story line was slightly slow. Had it been badly written it would have only got 3 stars but the quality of writing upped it to 4. Good summer book, would recommend as a holiday read.
This book almost earned 4 stars from me because it was such a lovely, enjoyable read. While it wasn't a page-turner, it was a nice book to relax with that provided a little break from a stressful day. I recommend this story to anyone who wants a chick-lit without the silliness.
A light and pleasant read. Not a favorite necessarily but enjoyable nonetheless.
Beautifully written by one of my favorite authors, but not quite as impressive as most of her novels, and pretty predictable. Still, worth reading for sure.
This was the first novel by this popular author that I've read. I found it rather stuffy and very old fashioned. Disappointing.
Rosamunde Pilcher is a great story teller and has a way of making her characters come alive. Delightful tale, and she kept me guessing for a while!
