https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85448.The_Great_Santini
Conroy seems obsessed with the idea of a Southern family trying to navigate the high school experiences of a sensitive son and a smartass daughter.
Again someone gets raped.
Again there are pages of descriptions of high school sports.What's different about this novel is that there are a lot of plot points that are dropped and never picked up again.
What happens after the girl is raped?
Why should the reader care about the high school basketball tryouts?
The action is too bogged down by these tangential subplots.That said, Conroy's descriptions are amazing, as in other books he's written.
Pat Conroy's thinly disguised autobiographical tale featuring Bull Meecham a hardcore Marine fighter pilot as the domineering and abusive husband and father of an oft relocating military family.
The book is hard to read at times, though Conroy was a master storyteller, who after this wrote The Death of Santini, which is the book billed as his true autobiography.
Oddly enough The Great Santini, is dedicated to both his mother Peggy Conroy "grandest of mothers and teachers " and to his father Colonel Donald Conway USMC retired, the "grandest of fathers and marine aviators." June Selection-On the Southern Literary Trail 4 stars
Description: Step into the powerhouse life of Bull Meecham.
Bull Meecham is undoubtedly Pat Conroy’s most explosive character—a man you should hate, but a man you will love.Opening: In the Cordova Hotel, near the docks of Barcelona, fourteen Marine Corps fighter pilots from the aircraft carrier Forrestal were throwing an ostreperously spirited going away party for Lieutenant Colonel Bull Meecham, the executive officer of their carrier based squadron.The bickering kids, affected mother, and gross 'Bull' arrive in Ravenel - I do not care for a single one of them.
However, am assured by the description that Meecham will become a man I will love.
The story of Bull Meecham, a Marine pilot, and his complex relationships with family and The Corps.Pat Conroy is an amazing writer.
The Houston Chronicle is quoted on the back of my book as saying "Reading Pat Conroy is like watching Michelangelo paint the Sistine Chapel," and I don't think I could articulate the experience any better.
This wouldn't have been possible for me without the amazing character craftmanship that Conroy displays.
We're trained and conditioned to think, act, believe a certain way, but so often life and nature complicate that "way." I LOVED this book.
The difference from reading this as a young woman with family in the military, and then as an older woman after serving in the Navy as an officer and also being married to a Naval officer and raising kids both while on active duty for 12 years & as a "dependent" wife overseas gave me so many different perspectives.
I went through training, I served with Marines, I went to chief's initiations, officer happy hours, Mess Dinners, Navy & Marine Corps birthday balls, and so forth.
I stood watch, I raised kids alone while husband was deployed both as an officer and later as a Navy "dependent" wife.
I’ll say upfront that The Great Santini holds the title for the best book I’ve read this year and has a very good chance of retaining that title all year.
In fact, in his penultimate book, The Death of Santini: The Story of a Father and His Son, Conroy describes his actual life with his family and his father, Marine fighter pilot Col. Don Conroy, the original Great Santini.
This time, though, I read The Great Santini while listening to the audio version of The Death of Santini.
Of all the Conroys I've read so far, this is my least favorite. The book jacket describes Bull Meacham as someone you should hate but will wind up loving, anyway - but that was not my experience. I found very little loveable about"The Great Santini". The thing that amazed me was how brave his family was on those occasions when they stood up to him. While I don't doubt he loved his family, and maybe was even proud of them in a way, he was domineering and controlling and sometimes downright cruel in his dealings with them.
THE GREAT SANTINI was my first Conroy book, and I enjoyed it immensely. He was a fine writer.
Pat Conroy is the master of the low country when it comes to fiction.
I'll discuss his other books I've read in the different posts, but in this case, it seems the only way to resolve the issue of an abusive father is for him to nobly sacrifice himself and the young man take on the mantle of father of the family.
If you've never been to the Low Country, this book will make you feel it.
The only law on Hilton Head was the Beaufort Sheriff which is quite a ways away.Anyway.
Whatever it is, the book is a continually interesting read that gives a portait of a period in time that is now gone and a type of individual that is rare today.Fighter pilots, (like surgeons) are professional that require a different than normal mind-set in order to be excellent at what they do.
He was a rare type of individual that sacrificed much to become what he was at a time when he was never called upon to fully BE what he became.In my opening I mentioned that this book was unevenly crafted.
Pat Conroy (1945-2016) was one of America's most acclaimed and widely read authors and the New York Times-bestselling writer of eleven novels and memoirs. Although a fictional novel, Pat Conroy's writing was heavily influenced by his personal life experiences. THE GREAT SANTINI depicts a Marine Corps pilot who is a domineering father often physically and emotionally abusive to his children. This is an intense, dramatic, passionate and sometimes humorous read. It was made into a major film. 4 stars
I enjoyed this book. More on it later.
I saw the movie before I read the book, and it was the first time I saw my experiences as a military brat played out in a work of fiction. I recognized the shifting family dynamics and the insistence on appearances to the exclusion of all else. I experienced the warrior culture, the comradeship of a family in opposition to the world every time we transfered, too, and moves from one alien environment to another. My dad was no Bull Meecham, but he was a piece of work. Conroy helps me remember.
I loved the way he gave us insight into his characters by showing us examples of their strengths and weaknesses: Ben one-on-one against his father shooting baskets in the driveway; Mary Anne masking her pain with a smart retort; Bull coming to Ben’s defense against the town bullies; Lillian pleading with Ben to bring his father home.
As much as I disliked Bull, I grew to love Ben. He is a sensitive boy, growing to manhood, and he is able to glean the good lessons from his father – loyalty to your family and friends, championing the weak, hard work and never giving up – and recognize the poor example as well, vowing to never be like his father in those ways.
They say a good writer can describe anything - the most boring, innate object that you are most disinterested in and there were a few of those in this book - and captivate and mesmerize you.
So it was a double shock that I would be so captivated by this book.
I mostly listened to this on audio but also read the book.
The narration was powerful, and as one of the first fiction books I've listened to on audio, it kept me entertained to the very end.
Pat Conroy can describe anything and it comes out as perfectly orchestrated as a symphony.
I love Pat Conroy & two of his books, The Prince of Tides & South of Broad, are among my favorites of all time. Sadly, I couldn't get into this one.
"They love their families with their hearts and souls and they wage war against them to prove it."Marines - and specifically Bull Meechum, "...
It's not easy to be a marine family, but it is especially difficult to be the family of Bull Meechum, the self-proclaimed Great Santini.
This is really the coming-of-age story of Ben Meechum, eldest son (or should I just call him 'dependent') to Bull, but with the indelible Lt. Col.
for a father, it has the feel of being Bull's story.
This is the story of a complicated father-son relationship and also about the type of person you wish to be.
Coup de coeur pour ce premier roman de Pat Conroy ! ❤❤❤ Ça fait des années que je repousse sa lecture mais je ne regrette pas, je trouve qu'il a encore plus de sens quand on a lu l'oeuvre de l'écrivain et qu'on connaît son histoire.
Pat Conroy is a master story teller and one of the best descriptive authors around.
This is the third Conroy book I have read and they all have some very dark elements within the story.
Many years ago I had the opportunity to meet Pat Conroy and speak with him.
He was a speaker at a small marketing conference in Charleston SC - a regional meeting of the National Council for Marketing and Public Relations (part of the American Association of Community College).
Pat came to the dinner early and talked to every person there.
I am glad there are more books of his for me to read.
Easily a five star audible rating.One of my rules is that if a book makes me cry I give it five stars.
That book also had a lot of family violence in it.
In this book the family violence centered around the father but was not limited to him.
There was considerable violence in this book between characters, verbal and physical.
The material presented to me in this book about the life of a Marine Corps family certainly gave me no reason to think of the Marines as a positive contributor to life.
When I started reading this book, I wanted to take Bull Meechum and beat the daylights out of him.
The story depicted the life of a family whose father was a marine fighter pilot.
The abuse suffered from their father to each family member, molded each of them differently but brought them close together.
Now that I've read the story, I Came to understand that some men can't show their family their sensitive side because they think it makes them appear weak.
This book defined how Bull's personality, beliefs, thoughts, feelings and marine training affected his family and he saw nothing wrong with their fear of him and didn't care.
I love this book and think it is one of the more hysterical novels I have read, yet everytime I try to explain what is funny about it to people I get weird looks.I have the feeling, that to enjoy this book to the degree I have, one must have experienced a 'scary' parent. Not necessarily an abusive one, or some sort of criminal, but one that allows their children to grow up in an environment where morbid humor rules all.
Conroy said his mother told the judge at her divorce hearing that he wouldn't need to call any of the children to testify for her. She gave him a copy of this book and said, 'this is all you need to know.' Santini is bigger than life, fascinating, abusive, mercurial. Santini WAS Conroy's father. Conroy got the last word.
Bull Meecham is undoubtedly Pat Conroy’s most explosive character—a man you should hate, but a man you will love. -cover summaryI did not love him, there was only hate in my heart.
It started very slowly and had some pretty coarse and vulgar dialogue,which only occasionally became funny.However,it picked up steam in the last hundred pages or so and the ending was powerful.
This book and story took me back to another time in my life.
I was a young lieutenant in the Marine Corps at that time.
I think readers should understand that Pat Conroy is the 18 yr old "Ben Meecham" of the book and that Pat Conroy's father, Colonel Donald Conroy, USMC, is "Col. Bull Meecham."Early in the novel Lt Col Bull Meecham, his wife Lillian and their four children arrive at a new Marine Corps Air Station located near Ravenel, SC where Bull has rented his family a nice southern-style house.
"In war, there ain't no morals.
There are just winners, losers, and those that got their asses fried sunny side up."—page 205Pat Conway's novel, THE GREAT SANTINI, is amazingly well constructed and well written.
A very engaging and compelling read.
Protagonist, Marine, Fighter Pilot, Yankee, Irish, Catholic, Bull Meecham, is a character out of time and place, who is hard not to like—and equally hard, or harder, not to dislike.
A warrior without a war.
And yet, he is 'The Great Santini'.
Recommendation: I've no idea what a 'southern' novel is—but this is one of the best 'southern' novels I've read.
Great book in my opinion.
There is a dominant marine father, a beautiful Southern Belle for a wife and 3 smart-ass kids who are constantly trying to appease their father while trying not to be abused by him, mentally and physically.
You could open to the book to any page and find evidence of the outstanding writing.
But the book is much more than that.
There are so many viewpoints and characters of interest.Our book club did read this book and the literary experts did not like the book.
However they did like the "Tiger's Wife" which was awful.
Everyone has their opinion.
Just couldn't do any more.It may have a good story line, as many people obviously enjoy the book.
But I just couldn't get past the flat characters, insipid dialogue, and uninspired writing.
Wuthering Heights), it's that I'm not willing to put up with bad writing.Unfortunately I picked up Wallace Stegner immediately after dropping the Conroy book.
It almost brought tears to my eyes, as the writing was so beautiful, so nuanced, so damn good.Recommended only to those who can swallow writers like James Patterson (whose writing I also find flat and insipid, but with engaging story lines).
Roz,I am envious. This is one my favorite authors and I love every single book especially this one. DOn't see the movie, though, it is well acted but not true to the book. Enjoy!Liz
