https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8718.Creation
He has met, and hobnobbed with, Zoroaster, Anaximander, Pericles, Socrates, the Buddha, Confucius, Xerxes, Darius, and Lao Tsi. All of these figures (with the exception of Zoroaster) did live within roughly the same time frame, the 5th century b.c. The setting alone, and the luxurious descriptions thereof, are a traveler's and historian's dream.Of course, our narrator is a diplomat after all.
The history and setting alone make this worth a good look.
The political descriptions are especially tedious (!) but the rest is worth reading.
Vidal's Creation answers this question and carefully explores what most folk of the Western hemisphere have deliberately ignored as a relic of the backwards and dangerous middle east: the Persian perspective.What Vidal provides in Creation, from the viewpoint of the fictional diplomat and spiritual inheritor of Zoroastrianism, Cyrus Spitama, the grandson of none other than Zoroaster and childhood friend of Xerxes, is the story of a lush and powerful civilization, rife with power struggles and an abundance of history, just like the Greeks, and with ample justification for the contempt that Persians in power felt for the Greeks.
An historical novel of truly epic proportions20 October 2012 I didn't realise that Gore Vidal was what is called a revisionist when it came to his historical novels, but it only makes me want to pick up more of his books because revisionists tend to give us an alternate view of history that differs from the history that is written by the winners. This book is one of those examples: not so much a retelling of Herodotus but rather a version of Herodotus written from the view of a Persian. For thos
An historical novel of truly epic proportions20 October 2012	I didn't realise that Gore Vidal was what is called a revisionist when it came to his historical novels, but it only makes me want to pick up more of his books because revisionists tend to give us an alternate view of history that differs from the history that is written by the winners.
It was during this time that Buddhism developed in India, moving away from the pantheistic Hindu religion, Zoroastrianism superseded the older Persian polytheism, as well as seeing the collapse of the Neo-Babylonian empire.
Creation is my most favourite novel on the subject of an ancient history, and not because it had opened my eyes to some antediluvian clandestine truths but because of its freewheeling stylishness.“I am blind.
But I am not deaf.
Because of the incompleteness of my misfortune, I was obliged yesterday to listen for nearly six hours to a self-styled historian whose account of what the Athenians like to call ‘the Persian Wars’ was nonsense of a sort that were I less old and more privileged, I would have risen in my seat at the Odeon and scandalized all Athens by answering him.”That is the beginning and from here on in there’s no stop…
However a few weeks ago Vidal was in Toronto and that was how I began looking at the novel again.
The narrator is an imaginary Cyrus Spitama, who Vidal describes as the grandson of Zoroaster (Zarathushtra).
So in a way Vidal’s Cyrus Spitama cannot be the prophet’s grandson, since the author is talking about events of the Achemenide king Xerxes.
Cyrus Spitama’s narration as an ambassador of the King Xerxes in Athens is witty and philosophical at the same time.
It is interesting to note that Cyrus Spitama is of a mixed marriage between an Iranian father and a Greek mother, something that was very common in those days.
This is not one of my favorite books of all time, but I am giving it five stars anyway because it truly is amazing.
Vidal's grasp of history never fails to impress me.
Vidal breaks several of the cardinal rules of fiction, and the book can seem a little exhausting at times; the lengthy conversations about ancient Greek politics would have been more interesting if I had a more in-depth understanding of Grecian history.
That said, Gore is at his gossipy best when he delves into harem politics, and his vivid descriptions of Cathay, India, and Persia give life to an era too often blandly summarized.
This and Julian may be my favorite novels by Vidal, not that I've read them all yet.Creation postulates, within the realm of plausibility, a character who, in the course of his lifetime, travels from Persia to India to China to Greece and meets such luminaries as Zoroaster, the Buddha, Lao Tzu, Confucius and Herodotus. It is done amusingly, but seriously enough that a reader unfamiliar with the period might be inspired to pursue a more serious study.
Hey Petra thanks for the like : ) As full of himself mr. Vidal was, this book is such a masterwork! I'd like to read it again sometime.
Може да напише съвременна критика на американското общество, да разгледа наболели социални проблеми или да изгради един съвсем точен образ на древния свят."Сътворението" е крайъгълен камък за всеки, който се интересува от история.
В романа са разбъркани имената на Питагор, Сократ, Перикъл, Буда, Дарий, Ксеркс и много др., които си взаимодействат като нормални човешки същества.
Ще се впуснете в едно главозамайващо търсене на Началото, което всеки разбира различно и има своя теория по въпроса.
Бих предупредил, че по средата на романа има 2 глави за Индия и Китай, които лично на мен ми бяха скучни, но за сметка на това всичкото действие в Персия и Гърция беше превъзходно.
I don't know why Old World historians and ancient Near Eastern folk always favour the Greek side of things--there are two sides to a coin after all.
Most Old World historians view has been skewed by reading Herodotus' histories.After travelling through the Middle East in the 1980s, I went back to university and got a BA and MA in Near Eastern Studies with a minor in Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies and also spent time studying the rich Persian history.
I expected to love this book, but Gore Vidal somehow managed to take an amazing concept for a story and turn it into one of the dullest books i've ever tried to slog through.
It is obvious that Vidal did an extensive amount of research for the book and attempted to include every sliver of information he learned.
I give him credit for his learning, but the result here is a book that is not story-driven enough to be a good novel, nor deep or informative enough to work well as a work of nonfiction.
Много мащабна книга, която ми направи силно впечатление. Радвам се, че я отлагах дълго, тъй като сега е по-подходящ момент за прочитането й. Страхотно интересна гледна точка по отношение на източните философии, зороастризма и учението на Питагор. Много политически игри и интриги. Определено си струва четенето!
That's a weighty bunch of statesmen and philosophers if ever there was one!Persian diplomat Cyrus Spitama, grandson of Zoroaster and childhood friend of Xerxes, is our guide as he journeys across the ancient world, from Babylon to Athens, across India and China and back again.
Vidal tells it his own way as well; the Greeks in particular take something of a pasting as Vidal shows them how they may have looked to the Persians, like little more than pesky flies buzzing around the foot of an elephant.I love the Greeks, so this was a tough pill for me to swallow while reading this, but I had to admit he made a convincing case.
It takes the form of a narration of his life story to a young Democritus.Starting with the death of Zoroaster and his early life at the persian court, the book then chronicles his travels to India where he meets Gosala, Mahavira and the Buddha and China where he meets the Taoist philosophers and Confucius.With the narrator being a male associated with the ruling class of persia and also a grandson of Zoroaster, the focus is mainly on the political interactions and religious and philosophical ideas.
I had a hard time keeping track of all the Greek, Persian and Chinese names.
And don't quibble with me about who is and who is not included in "everyone" because, well, either it includes everyone or it's slightly hyperbolic.
Nor please to quibble about the "ought" because I have really no patience nor tolerance for those who say there is only an is and never an ought, even if patience and tolerance are virtues one ought to bring with one into any exchange of views, opinions, knowledges, and things of this nature.
Which is basically why Vidal is correct in including his own book on a list of Books Which Everyone Ought To Read.
Set in the 5th century B.C., "Creation" is the story of Cyrus Spitama, the imaginary grandson of Zoroaster - the prophet of Ahura Mazda, the Wise Lord, and hence the man who introduced the first truly monotheistic cult in the Persian empire.
He gets involved in the Persian wars and the resulting crisis of Xerxes' reign; he tells us about the intrigues of exiled tyrants and plotting generals; he unravels the secret aims of ambiguous politicians; and he travels to lands so remote and mysterious that their simple existence is no more than an abstract notion for the Great King himself.
In his sumptuous historical novel Creation, Gore Vidal proposes a character: Cyrus Spitama, the grandson of the prophet Zoroaster, who becomes familiar not only with legendary Persians (Darius, Xerxes) or Greek(Democritus, Socrates, Herodotus), but also all three of the "vinegar tasters:" the Buddha, Laozi (referred to as Master Li) and Master K'ung, better known to those us in the distant present as Confucius.
For one: for all learn about Cyrus Spitama, Vidal's invented narrator, he does seem, witty comments and elegant phrase-turning aside, somewhat flat and enigmatic, even after almost six-hundred pages, while at the same time appearing just a little too intelligent.
The distances are invoked not so much by describing Spitama’s long and perilous journeys, but by the contrasting world views he finds in the countries he visits, and by each country’s attitude to the power of the Persian Court, which ranges from the open hostility of the Greeks to the indifference of the Chinese.
But Vidal has obviously done his homework on the history of the times and, like all good historical fiction, he integrates his fictional characters and events seamlessly with the known events and characters of the time.The book is particularly strong on the details of the Persian court and its relationships with the Greeks.
OK, confession time, I started reading Creation, but just could not, no matter how hard I tried, get into it.
Creation was the first book I've really started and did not finish.
This is not to say that it was a bad read, I'd be the first to admit that maybe I was having an off week, but it was just way too complicated for me, it was giving me a massive migraine.
I don't want to have a dig at Gore, as Julian is one of my favourite reads, but unfortunately I found Creation tedious.
I can't rate it with any stars as I failed to finish it and so giving it a rating would be unfair.
The book has great sense of humor and some rare fine discussions between characters, which I can assume they come from the author's own personality.However, I really disliked the book. The story didn't attract me at all and I had hard time finishing it. There was absolutely no historical reference in the story plus some parts the author intended to make the book so close to hollywood movies. Sorry to who ever liked the book, it's just a personal idea.Cheers.
Gore Vidal contends that 5th century BC was one of the most creative periods of human existence.
This was a period of giant strides in the fields of mathematics, philosophy and most importantly religion.Gore Vidal's narrator, indeed Gore Vidal himself, is Cyrus Spitama, the grandson of Zoraster who is asked to go on a series of embassies for Darius and Xerves, the great Persian emperors of that age.
Somewhere along the way, Gore Vidal does not try to answer the question himself but walks along with the reader through the simulation of that time that he conjures and genuinely probes for a clue.
Non sarà proprio rispettoso di una certa etichetta del recensore cominciare una recensione ripercorrendo la storia editoriale di un romanzo, ma in questo caso la dovuta premessa, vi assicurò, avrà il gusto di un piacevole antipasto in attesa della portata principale.Tutto inizia dalle esigenze del Gore Vidal lettore, piuttosto che scrittore: il che, almeno a mio avviso, segna già un punto a favore.
L'autore, che tra i suoi variopinti gusti annovera anche la passione per il mondo antico, confessò di aver sempre voluto leggere un romanzo con Zoroastro, Buddha e Confucio: tre personaggi che tendiamo a credere distanti nel tempo e nello spazio, per non parlare poi del profilo ideologico.
The problem with Gore Vidal and his 'historical' novels is that you can be sun dazzled by his erudition whilst failing to recognise what he said himself about his historical novels - nobody knew what it was really like so my 'interpretation' is as good as any other.
There is of course the sense that if a story is worth telling, it's worth elaborating, but then that takes us away from the 'Historical' and puts us completely into the world of the 'Novel'.This Vidalesque historical novel 'brick' comes in at over 650 pages and its scope is vast taking in Periclean Greece, Persia, Zoroastrianism, India, Buddhism, Confucius and China (did I leave something out....probably).
The funny thing is that nowadays many people end up on their own spiritual journey, starting with their own faith tradition then learning about those of others, and come up with as few definite answers as the protagonist Cyrus Spitama does in this novel.
In the end, I do come down more on the Eastern view of a circular spiritual path than the straight line with a beginning and ending that most monotheistic religions believe in.
The best praise I can give this book is that is forces you to ask yourself these questions to oneself and could prove to be enlightening to someone who has never sincerely compared their faith tradition against those of others.
''Entertaining'' books are enjoyable to read but they tend to be a bit brainless and mediocre, a bit light; ''interesting'' books on the other hand are often boring and difficult to understand: the reader writhes in his seat and sighes as he battles his way through an 800-page classic of Victorian literature, wondering if he should really be doing something else.
Vidal is one of the few writers I have come across who manages to bridge this divide in his books: his novels are erudite and thought-provoking but most importantly, they always entertain the reader.
A long time ago I saw Gore Vidal on Bill Maher's show Politically Incorrect.
I never felt sad or happy for the characters.
The main character meets Buddha, Confucius, and a host of other famous historical personages.
Reading it feels like Vidal had some kind of time machine and just went back and took notes on everything.
Complicated (royal) family trees, religious schisms, assassinations, coups, love affairs, wars etc...The closest thing I can compare it to is I, Claudius but with a much larger scope and so a larger cast of characters and so (again) less intimacy with the characters.Thank you Mr. Vidal for letting me take a ride in your time machine.
Interesting book, life of the fictional Cyrus Spitama, grandson of Zoroaster, the religious teacher, as told to his grandson.
Darius, then king, wants to invade India.
Much of the book recounts Cyrus' travels, customs of people he meets and always the religious Cyrus is searching for alternate theories of Creation and the problem of evil.
Cyrus finally dies, but his grandson, after many years of travel and living in many countries, finally figures out what he feels must be the answer to Cyrus' questions.
This is my second time through this wonderful book.
Vidal has that rare talent of making me feel like I have a personal relationship with the narrator and of putting me right into the world he has created.
The somewhat contrived adventures of Cyrus Spitama provide the vehicle for an exploration of the majority of the "civilized" world that existed at the time of Buddha and other religious figures that play a role in "Creation".
The narrator's journeys are also a mechanism for Vidal to discuss his opinions about some of the great religions of the world.
Cyrus Spitama is one of my favorite characters in fiction. Imagine being the grandson of Zoroaster, the uncle of Democritus, the son-in-law of Ajatashatru, the childhood friend and confidante of Xerxes. Imagine traveling to India in the 5th century B.C. and meeting Buddha. Later, traveling to Cathay and meeting Lao Tzu and Confucious. This is pure joy of the imagination. For more fun, read it while you read The Histories
A huge book. Big story. I don't think it works 100%, which breaks my heart, but those things that are good are very lovely indeed. The language is smooth and pretty, without gushing.The best part: Vidal portrays the Ancient Greeks as the opposite of everything we've been taught.Worst part: I really had to force myself to believe the protagonist was a devout Zoroastrian. He just never really seemed to be.But I think I'm changing my mind on that, having read it a fourth time.
