https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1409344.Driving_Miss_Daisy
Driving Miss Daisy is Alfred Uhry's 1988 Pulitzer winning play that put him on the map as a premier southern playwright.
Uhry also uses Hoke and Daisy to relate how in the South both African Americans and Jews faced discrimination from society at large and shared empathy with one another.
This theme of aging although important takes a back seat to Urhy's take on race in the south, which still resonates today and makes this play timely nearly thirty years later.
Alfred Uhry in Driving Miss Daisy has created memorable characters and merits the Pulitzer for its rap on age, race, and religion.
"Driving Miss Daisy" is the first play in Uhry's "Atlanta Trilogy", which focuses on Jewish residents in Atlanta in the 20th century. It won the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for drama, and the subsequent 1989 movie won the Oscar for best picture. It's portrayal of race relations brought it's share of criticism, especially for the movie. But being reminded of our past is necessary, because knowing where we have been can help us know where to go, that is if we have enough sense to learn.
Charming -- but it plays much better than it reads.
This was a very short play with only 3 characters. I found it interesting and wished it was longer. I will have to watch the movie at some point.
I like this book. I've seen the movie several times but I'd never read the play. it's good.
A really beautiful story, with strong characters that you can picture in front of you.Miss Daisy's son hires her a 'coloured' chauffeur after she crashes her car and destroys property.
His mother fiercely and passively resists this slight on her ability and independence but gradually she and Hoke become friends.
Their relationship spans decades into the old age of them both.It's wonderfully written, funny and warm, the three characters all easy ton imagine and rounded from just a few dozen pages of script.
The ending is perfectly judged.I can't comment on other Pulitzer Prize nominees from this year but in thrilled Driving Miss Daisy won the Prize.
There is a chance that this may be one of the few pitch perfect plays ever written. There is such depth and life in the characters. The off-stage characters, who never show up, are so well drawn and full of life you'd swear they were in the actually on stage. This play avoids the dreaded hammer of sentimentality by spreading the play over decades. The lessons learned aren't simple, and don't wrap up nicely at the end. This is just a dynamic play that has two of the most well-defined characters driving it along.

Not just me?Told over two decades, Driving Miss Daisy is the story of the relationship between Miss Daisy, a wealthy Jewish woman, and her driver, Hoke, a semi-literal black man.
The play is supposed to be about the friendship formed between these two, but given the setting, I found a lack of authenticity to the supposed friendship (particularly in the movie).
It comes across instead as a lonely older woman in need of companionship and the black man paid by her son to make her feel less alone.
Yes, but that doesn’t change my feelings that this play confused the loyalty of a servant with actual affection.
Review to come. This book is just perfect
Love this play!
He points out how she'd also put a Rudolph up in a tree, Daisy declaring how Florine's grandfather would've responded to viewing this, but then changes the subject to a book she'd given to Hoke, she vehemently denying it being a present, and to tell no one, Hoke assuring her and attempting to hide his feelings, the two then walking up the drive.Boolie is now in his late 40s, dressed for golf, and waiting for Hoke, whom comes out to share of Daisy not coming, he relating how defensive she'd been with this new car lately, she chasing some man around when he'd set his case on the hood for a moment, and how she disliked using the A/C, he going on to describe of having purchased the old car and allowing Daisy to ride in it once in awhile, he warning Boolie to mind his ashes.
Godot, cu Maia Morgenstern. Despre prietenie. O femeie văduvă bogată își găsește cel mai bun prieten în șoferul ei devotat.
1988 Pulitzer: A play about an unlikely friendship that evolves despite racial differences. Daisy is an aging Jewish matron who is forced by her son to be driven around by Hoke, an aging black chauffeur because of her failing eyesight. This play remains fairly light-hearted the entire time while still successfully pulling at your heartstrings as you watch their friendship bloom over 25 years.
This play spans a few decades and chronicles the budding friendship between an old cranky, Jewish woman, Daisy, and her driver, a black man named Hoke. Over the years their relationship changes from a business one to that of old friends. The dialogue is wonderful and though it is a short play, I quickly felt attached to the characters.
I like This Story
Driving Miss Daisy is a definite classic, a play about friendship, giving people a chance, revolutionary times and loyalty. It was also adapted into an equally-amazing film in the 1980's.
Loved it. Loved the movie as well.Hoke seems even more daring and proud than in the movie.
I don’t think that’s the story that Alfred Uhry set out to write, but he definitely did an extraordinary job of capturing the nuance of racial oppression between the three characters.
It’s a great scene that perfectly sums up white culture; regardless of one’s ethics, it is better to align one’s self with the oppressors rather than the oppressed.
^insert eye roll here^)This isn’t a bad nor racist story, in fact it does a good job of highlighting racial, gendered, religious, and ageist microaggressions that are perpetrated throughout the play.
Daisy Werthan, an elderly women whom has recently lost the ability to driving, and her driver Hoke Colburn, a Black Man. Who Miss.
Daisy simply because she was a rich Jew and Hoke Colburn because he was a colored man with a license.
Throughout the play Mr. Uhry explores themes of Racial and Class Tension during Americas Pre-Civil Rights Era. Capturing them eloquently, and in very “risk less” situations - Hoke stealing the Can of Salmon was more a class issues, than one about integrity, he lacked the funds to eat - he ate the can but replaced it shortly thereafter.
Driving Miss Daisy is set in times were there was racism and racial segregation. Miss Daisy is a Jewish elderly rich woman and Hoke is her African American chauffeur. This book shows the path this unlikely friendship takes. Overall, this book was mostly boring, with nothing that interesting, and a bunch of normal life days. The ending of the book though ( the last page ) is really sweet. Hoke feeding Miss Daisy, more importantly, her letting Hoke feed her is a very important and touching image.
This short but inspiring 1988 Pulitzer winning play was converted into a 1989 Oscar winning Hollywood film starring Jessica Tandy and Morgan Freeman. I never saw the movie, but this play is excellent. The play, which contains only three roles, explores the slowly developing friendship between an elderly wealthy Jewish woman and a working class black man living in the southern United States around the time when Martin Luther King was preaching
I chose this to read on a trip to Atlanta - I like to pick vacation reads that are set in, or by authors from, where I'm headed. I have never seen the movie - not sure if that would have made me more engaged having the images of the characters in my head or not - but as it was I found this totally unforgettable. It's worth the hour's time to read it, but not much more in additional pondering.
Loved this play! I read it in one sitting. Takes place in the South in Atlanta between 1948 and 1973. It is the story of an elderly Southern lady and her driver. While the lady at first did not want a driver, she learns that he is actually her best friend. I thought the play was excellent.
GreatGreat read. I can’t wait to see the stage play. It’s poignant. Well rounded characters and a small cast. Read it if you can but it’s obviously more impactful if you see it live.
Driving Ms. Daisy was an interesting play. I enjoy reading plays, but I thought the content of the book was ok. The play explored the life a 72 year old women, who had a black driver. It shows the interaction of the white and black during the time period and how Ms. Daisy grows fond of her driver.
Script upon which the movie "Driving Miss Daisy" is based...Very entertaining!!!
short and sweet.
The play was short and sweet. I really liked the characters. I should probably go check out the Morgan Freeman movie version now.
I hung on every word. This was funny, beautiful, sad, but mostly engaging. I could actually picture the lights fading out of one scene and back onto another. I didn't want it to end.
