https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3800517-the-encyclopedia-of-country-living
It is not a book you would read from cover to cover as there are many sections that are specifically for reference.
It is full of 1000's of recipes and references including many websites, magazines, and books.
It covers an extensive list of subjects from growing beets to butchering hogs and from keeping bees to making soap.
It covers storing fruits, meats, and vegetables and hundreds of other basic skills that use to be passed down from father to son but which have been forgotten, for the most part, in our modern urban lifestyle.
This book is THE SHIT! Everything you may want to know about country living - from buying land, learning about farming and running your own business from your little acreage. Good listings for those living in the US, as this is very much an American book. Makes me want to go to the US and do some serious homesteading while living on an organic, vegetarian diet.
What an incredible volume of useful knowledge!
And while one would initially think to buy this and place it on a shelf to use as a reference (and they should!), they will find upon perusal that there are all kinds of tidbits mixed in as well that they might miss if they don't go cover to cover.
I highly recommend this and again, make sure to give it a look-through before placing it on your shelf - you won't be sorry!
Got this one along with a couple of other "basic skills bibles", and so far I'm impressed with the breadth and depth of its coverage. Been reading about corn lately, all kinds of stuff about it. A good one for the commode, to have handy and just open randomly to any page.
I like to sit by the fire and read about shearing sheep and slaughtering pigs (sorry, my veggie friends).
Contained in these pages is just about everything you need to know to live off the grid or on it, if you prefer.
It covers finding and purchasing land, building houses and barns, buying, raising, and breeding all sorts of animals, hunting, foraging, slaughtering livestock, shearing sheep, growing fruits and vegetables, canning, and more and more and more.
And there are recipes for things like "small animal stew".
Delicious!Since we got this book, I am even more obsessed with living the dream.
Holy macaroni, there's a lot in this book!
I have no desire to live in the country but I am interested in urban agriculture, growing more of what I eat, and learning how to preserve what grows.
This is not a book to read in one sitting though I certainly tried.
From Latin names for plants to when and how to plant to what to plant with what to how to fight pests to preserving harvest for winter to recipes for everything you grow, you ought to be able to find what you need here.
From Latin names to
There's a reason why so many farmers and homesteaders consider Carla Emory's book to be THE definitive source of information. Sure she wrote it many years ago, but it has evolved with each printing into a total package of information. It covers everything from raising and butchering livestock, to baking, gardening, canning, using herbs, building chicken coops and churning butter. I've turned to it many times when I needed information, or to read about something I was considering trying. She has a very no-nonsense approach, much like our farming grandparents did, and I appreciate that most of all.
This book is huge and has a little bit of everything. I didn't finish it. It is a book to have on your shelf for constant reference as the farm grows. I will be adding it to my library as it is a must have. There is everything from detailed gardening to how to make egg noodles.
3.5 stars---I just skimmed through this giant book, and I can see how useful it would be if I lived in the country, had a farm, or gardened more seriously than I currently do. This book is like several books smashed into one. It covers almost all bases - growing, preserving, cooking veggies, grains, legumes, etc, raising animals and maybe even eating them too (I skipped the last chapters about animals).
I use this reference manual for most everything country over and over again!
Next time you need to castrate a goat, check out this book first.
I got this book fram the library and did not read from cover to cover, as with most informative books, but I flipped through it, reading the sections that interest me most, and I learned so much! From buying a plot and building on it, to raising animals, gardening, and perserving food, this book is excellnt to learn over-all homesteading skills. It was extremely helpful!
good lord, this book is comprehensive. i got it out of the library because i'm trying to put in a garden and am clueless, but i found myself paging through it, fascinated, as she discusses such handy and useful things as how one slaughters a hog, keeps hens from getting "broody," does laundry with a plunger and bucket, etc. information that won't help me a bit in my urban home, but which is entertaining to read and, as with the animal-slaughtering-how-tos, page past very quickly. if i had any desire to homestead, this is the book i'd take with me.
I had heard of this book for years, so decided to get it from the library. It is not the kind of book you read from cover to cover. I was particularly interested in the food preservation, oddments and herb sections. This is a book about self-sufficient living, so it also has interesting things like a diagram of a hog with an X placed exactly where you should shoot it. I also enjoyed the recipes for pickled pig's feet and scrapple, amont others. This would be a great book to own, if you actually were living a "homesteading" lifestyle.
This is a MASSIVE reference book over 900 pages long on just about anything you'd need to know about country living, including how to purchase farm animals, catch a run-away pig, milk a cow, make sausage, can tomatoes, build a chicken coop, etc. This book is jam-packed with an impressive amount of detail, and includes diagrams, references, mail-order sources, and price estimates. A wonderful book to either flip through for inspiration or to turn to for detailed advice.
The first page I turned to said, "How to take care of your dead". So I figure it has it all. This book has everything your Grandmother should have taught you! I love learning how to do things on my own like making pickles and soap, so I am enjoying it. Already I found out I have poison Hemlock all over the front yard of my newly purchased home/ 5 acres that I want to turn into a mini farm. This book might have just saved my life!
One of my all time favorite books. The first time I made bread by hand, it was by a recipe in this book for four loaves. Everytime I have sat down to read this, I almost get lost in the pages! I love it. This isn't one of those read all the way through at once (even though I did so when I first got it!) and you can tell that from the size of it! Huge book! Carla Emery takes the intimidation out of so many areas of country living and her book delivers!
i have a soft spot for Carla Emery, the queen of hippie back to the landers. I grew up with this book, and read it many a time as i plotted my own future homestead. the information is far from complete, like all of these "everything you need to know" books there are simply too many subjects to cover any in depth. but it gives a person an overview of what's involved, and that's a fine starting point. GREAT armchair reading. her style is blunt and homey.
This is a book that anyone wanting to live a homesteading life needs. It can be read from cover to cover, but for me it is more of a little at a time book. Whatever I am doing at the time, be it learning about a certain plant, how to preserve food, or how to make cheese; I just refer to that section and read up on it. It is a very good book. Carla Emery really knew her stuff.
This book is almost as thick as a phone book, and contains information on just about everything you could think of when it comes to living in the country - canning, raising chickens, gardening, the works. I love it because it provides a great jumping off point for me to research topics in more depth from other sources. I'll be reading and re-reading this one for a long while.
If the apocalypse had actually occurred yesterday and I was left behind, this is the book I would want to have with me. It has instructions on seriously everything you could ever need to survive, from growing your own food, to castrating goats, to giving birth. I will probably (hopefully) never need a lot of this information, but it is incredibly interesting to read.
Carla Emery homesteaded in the Yukon Territoy and this book contains the wealth of information gained in that journey. Written is a very easy manner, containing humorous snippets of her blunders along the way. An invaluable resource of recipes for cooking from basic products, homesteaders,and health conscience cooks.
Excellent compendium of living a simpler life, covering many aspects from land to animals to kids to health to life and death. I have never read this entire book. I use some pages regularly, and sometimes I just pull it down and flip it open to see what I'm going to learn about next. Last time I did that, I ended up reading a recipe using a camel!
I have to be perfectly honest here, I have NOT read this book. I'd say I've read "on" this book! I've had it for a number of years now and I pull it out of my shelf a lot and look things up... and then a few hours later I realize whatever it was I was looking up is long gone from my mind! This is a great collection of lost skills and it makes me happy!
I keep going back to this resource on everything farm-ish. It gives me information enough that I can then start asking people questions and figure out what other books I need on the subject. Current interest: lambs and meat sheep!
Another great reference book for those wanting to learn lost of arts of our agrarian past. Whether you are interested in simple gardening, self-sufficiency or just being less wasteful and more green in your lifestyle, this books provides the information you will need.
Great info on raising animals, farming, bee keeping just about everything you need to know about country living. It was more like a journal than a dictionary though so that's why I didn't love it and the pictures could of been better.
Great reference book for anyone who's looking to live on the land - I saw this years ago at a book store in Portland (Powell's, baby!) and to this day this thing still holds up.
This book wasn't what I expected, and maybe thats why I didnt like it? It was a resource book with snipits and blurbs about various homesteading items. But, it wasnt in depth or useful to me.
this is a great back to basics read.. obviously a re-read I can read this again and again.
