https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50852.Space_Cadet
Modern readers may pass by this communication with little notice, but describing a cell phone in 1948, the year this was first published, was at the time the height of science fiction.
The second published of his Scribner’s juvenile works, this very early Heinlein displays his talent for telling a good, hard science fiction story.
One cannot read this without noticing a similarity to his later book Starship Troopers and what must have been an influence on Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game.
Astute readers will pick up on early traces of his later libertarianism, though with a paternalistic twist.
In the fairly distant future a teen named Matt Dodson applied for an organization called Space Patrol - the future versions of knights in shining armor that uphold peace and justice through the known space.
Take this well-known book, remove all edginess, bleak moments, social commentary and you end up with Space Cadet.
On the positive side the author manages to throw in some interesting scientific facts - from physics mostly - while making them fun to read about.
All in all this is a good read lacking any deep morals of thoughts, but fun at the same time.
Young Matt Dodson, an all-American 18-year-old from Iowa, joins the Space Academy. Their key task is to ensure world peace by dropping nuclear weapons on anyone who tries to do anything bad.I know what you're going to say. But many of Matt's classmates come from outside the US! Not only that, they even have a sign up on the wall saying Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? So that's alright then.
But then, this author writing of some fictional future world apparently decided to write for some real future people.And so, given the events that pervaded his entire adult life, Heinlein, in Space Cadet pens a possible future where Peace is the way.
Additionally, this early novel seems, in some ways, to be a precursor to the worlds Heinlein later builds.Given the novel’s various accompanying artwork, plot summary, and blurb, a reader may expect a fast-paced adventure story with all the accompanying sci-fi gadgets.
The values of the Patrol are extremely American, the academy is based in the US, the universal language 'Basic' is a simplified variant of English.And then, of course, there are the women.The blurb of my edition of this book (published in 1969) tells us "The story is about the young men who are training to be officers in the Interplanetary Patrol … and reaffirms the glorious interplanetary traditions of bravery, resourcefulness and revolutionary brotherhood."There are no women in the Patrol.

Another of Heinlein's classic juveniles, this book chronicles the adventures of a young man training to become a "Space Cadet" of the Space Patrol, a world wide force keeping peace in the solar system.
Further, as a Navy man, Heinlein had an intimate understanding of the ideal conduct of interactions between A ship's commander, officers and crew.
As a former Navy man myself, my opinion is that Heinlein captures this ideal perfectly.
There is a reason a number of Heinlein novels are on the required reading lists of the various United States uniformed services.
Read in 1969 or so, and reread probably a dozen times in the 70s. Haven't read it since. I loved it, and always went back to my homework feeling energized and determined after reading it.
It had been a long time since I had read this and after the last few books I had read requiring a lot of concentration I wanted something light and fun. This is classic Heinlein and while it's not spectacular it is exactly what I wanted as a palate cleanser between some SF that required a great deal of attention and the book on the evolution of language that will follow this one.Yes, it's clearly aimed at young teenage boys from several decades ago and there isn't a major female character in the book but it's still a fun read.
I first read this book over 35 years ago and recently came across a 2nd hand copy at a book sale so decided to delve into it again.
Other reviewers have given précis of the story so I won't go there, suffice to say it is a classic of Heinlein's early work.
Having now read 4 of Heinlein's books in a row (this book, Past through tomorrow, both volumes and the best of) I remember why I used to have so many Heinlein's paperbacks in the early 70s (where did they go?
Knjiga je napisana 1948.
i prevedena u Srbiji 1952.
SVAKA CAST!Sto se samog dela tice mislim da je sjajno za osobe koje su u srednjoj skoli, ali ni ostali ne bi trebalo da se libe da ga procitaju.
Prva polovina knjige podseca na Enderovu igru (Orson Skot Kard).
Naucice vas pomalo o moralu i etici, sta je to tezak rad i kako on dovodi do uspeha.
A u drugoj polovini videcete kako i zasto treba postovati razlicitosti.
Sobzirom da je pisana 1948.
odusevljavaju i pisceve zamisli kako bi tehnologija u buducnosti trebala da izgleda.
Dated now but still interesting. There are scenes in this that indicate that the writers of the newest "Star Trek" movie might have read it.
This was a solid and enjoyable Heinlein juvenile, typical of his novels in that genre. It was a joy to discover one I hadn't yet read.2017: This one was another hit with the kids!
However, this one held up better than my last Heinlein title (Red Planet).
While answers were given, there was no real indication except perhaps at the very end of the story, whether Matt was satisfied by the answers.
There was also a very abrupt transition from being in school to being on a mission.
Nonetheless, I thought this one held up pretty well for over the time, if you disregard the dates Heinlein should have left out of the book anyway.
Matt is a pretty likable character and so are his friends.
The story is pretty interesting and a good read.
This is one of Heinlein's Juveniles. It's strong evidence in support of the saying "The golden age of science fiction is 12." The science is authentic (except for Venus being hospitable for human habitation and having its own intelligent native species), the characters are simplistic, the story is a little sappy. (Sappy is a word that probably was in the popular vernacular when Space Cadet was written in 1948). It's good old fashioned science fiction. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The chill of the cold war spawns a bit of hope.Heinlein’s Space Patrol has a lot in common with Doc Smith’s Galactic Patrol, but without the all-knowning Arisians to keep them on course.
This time, it is all up to the humans.Of course, Ender’s Game is the best space cadet novel of all time, but I think it is a lot stronger if you know which direction a space cadet story is supposed to go.
Space Cadet stands on its own, but if you haven’t read Ender’s Game, you now have another reason to read Heinlein first.
This was the second Heinlein juvenile, published only a few years after World War II.
Set 125 years in the future, after the first exploration and colonization of several planets, our solar system still provides a wonderful playground for the characters.
Cell phones make an appearance, along with several other decent guesses about the future of technology.Predating Starship Troopers and The Forever War, it tells of a group of young men going through cadet training for the Space Patrol.
Read it young, enjoyed it...let me see.
Not a war going on...but good lessons on duty.
Good teen read.
(by the way, the meaning of the phrase that makes up the title has changed meaning quite a bit...LOL).This is in some ways almost a companion piece to Starship Troopers, not that they actually tie together, but it gives you a (another?) look at Heinlein's view of the military, discipline, responsibility and maybe life.
It tells a good story following "another" youth from his beginning steps away from "the nest" and on to responsible "young adulthood".
Pretty good.
Since i'm unlikely to read any adult Heinlein-I thought I'd read one of the kid books.
Training and the fitness required were well thought out and described by Heinlein (only 2 years after the Bell X-1) yet I found it a little tedious.
I read the 1948 edition-which has a great illustration of a "Heinlein" ship.
I was once "informed" by a scifi geek that that is the way a space ship should look.
"Rocket ships-the way God and Heinlein meant them to be."
It’s clearly a YA book, as the prodigious use of “Gosh!” and “Golly!” shows.Interestingly Heinlein’s politics here reflect ideas at the time, with the Space Patrol having a monopoly on nuclear weapons and being given powers by what we would now see as a World Government or the United Nations (which was created in 1945, just before the time of writing.) By having one multi-national, if not multi-planetary, force to govern with super-weapons, it removes the very real post-WW2 threat of individual countries using them for their own needs.
The fear that one group or another would put them there played a major part in Cold War maneuvering, but the general result was to prevent any such union as Heinlein described from materializing.Other assumptions have largely been forgotten.
Examination of asteroids in situ is still in its infancy, but there seems no evidence of the massy objects Heinlein posits for bodies such as Ceres, which he claims in The Rolling Stones are so dense that they have nearly as large a gravitational pull as Earth.
He's going to test to be a cadet in the Space Patrol.
Matt passes the initial tests and is sworn in but the rigorous training schedule may be too much for him.
This entire book is Matt's journey in the space patrol academy.
Most of the book reads like a lecture on how to be an astronaut as you accompany Matt and friends through lectures, homework, and simulations.
It's definitely not boring but kind of just chugs along until near the ending.
I still really liked it as space travel fascinates me but it wasn't quite the adventure his first novel was.
This is the second time I've read Space Cadet.
The first time was 65 years ago.
But I still remembered the scene where Matt Dodson explains to his mother that if he was going to launch a nuclear bomb to blow his hometown away he wouldn't use the one directly overhead.
He'd use L-9, which was far enough away to reach trajectory.
Of course, I was a cadet when I read that, obviously not a space cadet, but a cadet is a pretty good military academy where we wore army uniforms, not bellhop uniforms, and ran field problems on Saturday morning.
Mini-Review:A more concise & polished book. It had a nice balance of young recruit training and gaining actual experience on the training grounds. Without pushing the matter too hard, the differences between those who grew up in space, live on Earth and the life of a space patrolman are shown throughout the story. Overall tone made me think of the old Star Trek shows and themes. A fun book that was made more enjoyable by great narration.
1977 seems already a world away, but Heinlein wrote Space Cadet in 1948.
In Space Cadet, Heinlein even dated the first Moon landing to 1975, only six years out.
Space Cadet is one of the best, in particular because it is free of one his character tropes, the garrulous father figure.
All the characters here are boys, growing into men, and Heinlein does a great job of portraying that within the quasi-naval context of the Patrol.
All in all, Space Cadet contains almost all Heinlein's virtues as a writer and none of the vices that later infected his work.Oh, and the price back in 1977?
Perhaps for that reason more than any other it is still one of my favourite Golden Age sci-fi novels.First published in 1948, Space Cadet follows the adventures of Matt Dodson as he works his way through the training necessary to become a member of the prestigious Space Patrol.
Another great adventure story by Heinlein.
The book was not long, but the characters were created thoughtfully and the story, while evenly paced and with few surprised, rung eerily plausible.
During the course of this fun and engaging story Heinlein touches on some interesting themes such as, the reality of many people's self absorbtion and how that leads to an inability to relate to others or really to have any desire to, and the concept how and why to have a police force and what that would have to look like in order to expand it while avoiding corruption.
I enjoyed this book quite a bit, the only reason I gave it four instead of five stars is that, while it was good, there was little about it that made it very extraordinary...
This is another of Heinlein's strong juveniles. Heinlein attended the U S Naval Academy and the military life is often presented in his work.It is an interesting story of the changing of a young civilian into a Patrolman. Later, in the book, there is an adventure on the planet Venus, with a peek at a fascinating Venusian culture.Originally published in 1949, it has held up very well and still a very entertaning story. Highly recommended.
The entire family enjoyed listening to this audiobook. The characters are formulaic and Heinlein, certainly, has an agenda, but I love that he assumes that kids are smart. Of course, the books is dated, which comes through. The sexism is so over-the-top that it isn’t even offensive. It is just funny. There are smart, capable women in the book, but they all happen to be Venusian.Boys between the ages of 10-14 will love this book, and the rest fo the family will like it, too.
This classic still holds up after 63 years because it focuses on what turns a boy into a man, and not on the trappings of space flight. While Venus may not be the swampy jungle Heinlein saw, his vision of how to deal with nukes was spot on. Also, Civil Rights, long before the Civil Rights Movement. Check out my full review. http://bit.ly/eGhzDo
