https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113817.City_Boy
Also, fat boys who fall in love a lot and live in the Bronx.
Maybe a sweet pain kind of comfort read like Blue Castle or 'Oscar'.
I really loved City Boy. I feel like I'm in a young person's world and not as the adult or the kid.
If only one could feel like the teacher at the front with the wider view more often (as opposed to the kid caught sneaking around ugh).City Boy gets shit for being too rosy viewed about Jewish life in the Bronx in the 1940s.
There was one in my class who had a different girlfriend every day.P.s.s. I recommend Fat Kid Rules the World if you like City Boy. That book is awesome.
Then I was disappointed by The Hope and The Glory and quit reading Wouk's books.
Wouk has a way of describing the life events of children that really rings true with wit and humor.Here is an example involving the book's hero, Herbie, and his on again, off again girl friend, Lucille.
They are together inside the top of the Statue of Liberty and Davey, a handsome neighborhood friend of Lucille's, has just strode by and conversed briefly with Lucille, to the discomfiture of Herbie:"'O.K.,' he said bitterly.
If you like the little snippet I've quoted, you will love this book.
This story is labeled as a novel. Herbie Bookbinder is real! Why isn't this book considered a classic? I could read this book over and over and never get tired of it. During these uncertain times, nostalgia is so valuable and Herbie Bookbinder and his friends makes the reader feel hopeful again. Thank you Herman Wouk!
With it's long and complex sentences, Wouk provides enough clarity for each setting and description of character to allow me as a reader to see the world of Herbie's 11 year old life.
The use of alliteration in this book is a constant, as seen in one of my favorite sentences "Bulldog, Bulldog" was duly sung in draggy discords." With the way this book allows you to see into the heart and mind of the main character and his life in the 1920's, I can only say that this is a book that I highly recommend for people of all ages.
I read this as part of my "read everything ever written about the Bronx" kick, but found that it also fit into another one of my favorite subgenres: boy's stories in which the underdog rises above his station and becomes a hero.The big difference, though, is that most authors in this genre are hacks, while Herman Wouk is a great writer.
His main character, Herbie Bookbinder is a fantastic creation, and it takes little imagination to make the jump from the bookish Herbie to an imaginary "Hermie" Wouk growing up in a similar situation.
Rather, they are completely realistic, and all the more enjoyable for that reason.
I came across this one at a thrift store in Estes Park. I had never heard of it and didn't expect much, but ended up loving it. It's a funny, coming-of-age story about an overweight Jewish boy going to summer camp and trying to win a girl's heart. Very well-written, with subtle humor and recognizable characters.
A nice little read. Herman Wouk has become one of my favorite writers over time as the winds of war and war and remembrance are epic monster novels. But this was a completely different feel of course being about an 11 year old boy. The preteen humor and situations are hysterical because I once thought that way too. Just a solid story for any age really.
This is the story of the last half of the school year when Herbie is 11 and the summer that follows it when he goes to a summer camp run by his school's pricipal.
Although, I never lived in a big city like New York and I never went to summer camp I was able to relate to Herbie and his adventures and experiences.
How many of you have complained the whole time you were participating in something (In Herbie's case summer camp.) and then looked back on it with fondness?Herbie is neither completely the hero nor the villan.
That, I think, is why his story is so engaging and so enjoyable.
This is the kind of book I would recommend to my mother. It's 'cute'. Full of humor, quite delightful, and very safe, with a nice moral at the end. There are lots of parts where I giggled or chuckled. Herbie is quite charming. Some sexism and racism, and as a friend pointed out, a crass way of always referring to Herbie's weight issues, but this was written several decades ago, so. . . I would compare this book to the old black and white movie 'The Little Rascals'. Antics of school boys in the twenties at a summer camp.
My favorite coming of age novel about a charming 11 year old boy in the Bronx, circa 1925. His trials and tribulations still ring true today. The book has real wisdom and is the best depiction of the mind of a boy I know.
This was a good book. It reminded me of Tom Sawyer.
I loved this little book.. an easy and pleasant read, and a nice escape (from dreary, cold January) to the summer of 1928 in the Bronx. Reminded me of all the pleasures of being a kid again.
I liked City Boy, although the romance of the 11 year old boy was obviously fictional. My own 11 year old would never have romantic feelings, right?
I loved the first half of the book. The second half had a really long train wreck (not literally) that was hard to get through. I knew once he stole the money it would be downhill from there. I felt so bad for Herbie. I just wanted it to end. Some lessons are hard to learn and it had a good message but it is not my kind of book.
"When I discovered City Boy, I wasn’t fat, I wasn’t Jewish, my family wasn’t working class, and I never went to summer camp, but at thirteen, runty, effeminate, four-eyed, unathletic, and often the new kid in class because my father moved us around too much, I understood humiliation." -James Magruder http://thestoryprize.blogspot.com.es/...
This was enjoyable. A simple story of a young boy in the Bronx, and his adventures at school, at summer camp, perusing a love interest, and dealing with bullies. Very Tom Sawyer-esque, straightforward, readable and entertaining.
What a terrific read! I've read several of the author's books and this one is definitely one I'd read again. There were several spots that struck me as hilarious and I found myself in tears I was laughing so hard. It's a quick read so check it out. You won't be sorry.
I've been a Wouk fan for years, so I'm not sure how I missed this little charmer, one of his earliest works. My boyfriend found it in a library sale and bought it for me for a quarter. Money well spent, particularly since a quarter will no longer buy you candy and a "frap." Ha.
Enjoyable and really well written. The story of eleven year old Herbie Bookbinder, his infatuation with red-headed Lucille Glass, and his first experience at a questionably-run summer camp in the Berkshires where he learns much about the adult world around him.
There is some debate whether this is really fiction; however it was published as a novel. If it was written today it would be considered YA and I have rated it as such. It is a little whimsical and suitable as a moralistic lesson for earnest teenagers.
Fine book for teens.
An all time favorite book. Read it when I was young, and have reread it several times since. Recommended to all who like the author, like New York, and/or like semi-autobiographical novels.
Always an excellent re-read!I first read "The City Boy" in 1963, when I was ten. I have re-read it many times since, and have yet to tire of it.
these book is so magnificent!!
Dennoch bin ich froh dass ich dieses Buch (aufgrund seines nicht so sehr ansprechenden Einbandes und des Alters) nicht ungelesen ausgemustert habe.Denn es ist zum einen eine sehr nett geschriebene Geschichte über den (Ferienlager-)Sommer des 11jährigen Herbie Bookbinder (eine sogenannte "Coming-of-age-story").
Vielleicht waren die USA in diesen Punkten aber auch einfach fortschrittlicher als das alte Europa.Bei Herbie's Geschichte hätte ich mir mehr böse Streiche der anderen Jungs erwartet, aber im Grunde ist sein Sommer doch recht harmlos verlaufen, was ich aber ok fand.
Zuviel negative Aufregung löst bei mir immer Mitleid mit den Underdogs aus.Alles in allem also ein betagtes Buch, das man aber durchaus heute noch lesen kann und wo sogar eine (Neu-)Verfilmung angemessen wäre.
Had the Egyptian artist who painted the walls known that he was decorating a love retreat for two Hebrew children who would ignore his decorations four thousand years later, he might not have worked so hard and so successfully to make his colors permanent."The book held my interest -- both for the writing and for the setting; it's interesting to see what New York was like in the 1920s for striving but still insecure Jewish immigrants.
Herbie Bookbinder is a fat adolescent, a loser by today's standards and he knows it.
He convinces his parents to send him to overnight camp when he finds out Lucille Glass (the girl of his dreams) is going.
It's about Herbie straddling the ground between childhood and manhood and not being comfortable in either because he's not comfortable with himself.
The transition from child to man is easy for no one and the reader takes that painful journey with Herbie, who, thanks to Wouk's writing, maintains a sense of humor to ease the pain of..
He's a chubby, clumsy fellow, but very smart, and prone to wild crushes; as the book opens, his heart is broken when his teacher marries, but later that day, he falls for a girl at his school, which leads to most of Herbie's later adventures, as he tries to impress Lucille Glass against the competition of the better-looking and more athletic Lennie Krieger, culminating in the last half of the novel, which takes place at the summer camp that all three children attend.
Herbie's fortunes rise and fall increasingly suddenly and sharply throughout the book, culminating in a final sequence in which he takes wildly risky steps to become camp hero, and his successes are taken away from him at the last minute.
Said LA book was produced in NYC, of course, and was heavy on extracts from books about NYC or written by those enamoured of it--which meant that as a preteen in a small rural community in the Midwest, I didn't catch a lot of the references or vocabulary.
I read Pilgrim's Progress and Shakespeare for entertainment in those days.
I distinctly remember checking this book out of the library in those days and reading it, or at least most of it.I went back to it a few weeks ago and decided to give it another try; but still, there were so many things that just didn't resonate with either the now-me or the then-me that I gave up.
City Boy was fun to read and quite a departure from the war-focused books I have read by Wouk.
What I find interesting about Wouk's characters is that you get to know them, but you don't get completely inside their head.
Wouk has indicated that the chubby Herbie Bookbinder is his favorite character of all that he has created.
One thing this book has confirmed for me.
(It's funny that the counselors are called "aunt" and "uncle.") It is compared to being in the military and I must agree--I'd rather stay in the city.
I doubt Herbie returns next summer.
