https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351888.A_History_Of_Indian_Philosophy_Volume_I
Its something you technically could read without having a prior familiarity with Indian philosophy or Hinduism, but it would be hard to follow without a general knowledge of philosophical vocabulary.
The epistemological systems are equally diverse but harder to characterize in a list.However, ethics receives very little attention, and all the metaphysical doctrines uphold a broadly similar picture of the universe.insofar is it contains rebirth, and a soul which is subject to karma and seeks a return to some sort of pure state.
Rather than assuming that these things don't exist independently of the various components which seemingly produce them (the Buddhists do get this right a lot of the time to be fair).
This is the most comprehensive study of Hinduism and Indian Philosophy. Dr Surendranath Dasgupta has done a monumental service to all those interesed in the academic study of Hinduism and all its various branches.
Excellent overview of Indian Philosophy. If you're interested in Eastern philosophy then this is the book to read. Its, obviously, not a casual read and you'll be better of diving into this during vacations but the author doesn't assume any prior introduction to the Vedas or the etymology of Indian philosophy and takes you through the various schools and doctrines with the least effort on your part. I got this free from the Kindle store but I'll be on the look out for a hard copy of this book to keep on my bed side.
Volume 1 of 5 volumes of Indian philosophy. A work of remarkable breadth and depth. I have been reading on and off from all 5 volumes that I have. First volume gives us a wonderful exposition to schools of Indian Philosophy including Jainism and Buddhism. In my opinion every Indian and non-Indian should read and study the first volume at least.Especially in the times that we are in these days !
Dasgupta is indispensable for a student of philosophy. It is him to who we have to go again and again whenever we face some doubt. I had read the one published by Motilal Banarsidass and there were some mistakes in it.. You need to be careful while quoting him..
Essential reading for those looking to deepen their understanding of Indian Philosophies. Not for the feint hearted.
Note: This set is the result of 30 years of work by the author , but have in mind that the physical death of Mr. Dasgupta in 1952 left somehow incomplete the last book of the collection.
