https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/324737.Fresh_Wind_Fresh_Fire
Book Review: Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire By Jim CymbalaIn 1972, a young married man who did not have a background in ministry took over a dying congregation in a tough, inner-city neighborhood at the urgent request of his minister father-in-law.
But the biggest change of all was within the lives of the pastor, his wife and the members.What happened?
Then he instituted a weekly prayer meeting in which the members would pray for the pastor, the church service, that God's will would be done.
Who can outline what God might have in mind?”"Does anyone really think that America today is lacking preachers, books, Bible translations, and neat doctrinal statements?
What we really lack is the passion to call upon the Lord until he opens the heavens and shows himself powerful."“Anytime people get hungry to truly know the Lord, the Holy Spirit quickly puts a shovel and broom into their hands.”
While this was an inspirational read, I had a hard time stomaching the anti-intellectual bent of Pastor Cymbala. He is clearly a man of the highest intentions and of faith, but I don't think he presents a balanced, holistic view of Christian ministry in the end. I recommend this book as a secondary part of a balanced reading diet for church leaders.
My first finished book of 2018. There was power on every single page. I feel inspired and excited for the plans God has for my life this year. All of it based on the power of prayer and submitting to his full authority on my life.
But recently when a dear man of God recommended this to our church leadership I immediately found it on PaperBackSwap and began to read it.WOW!
It's hard to pull apart this book to determine my favorite part...but if forced to make a choices I would say it was the chapter titled "The Lure of Novelty" where Cymbala speaks frankly on the the power of prayer against casting out and binding.
Teens and adults of all ages need to read this book and practice it's passion!BOOK OVERVIEW:Pastor Jim Cymbala shares the lessons he learned when the Spirit ignited his heart and began to move through his people.
It is a truly serious and valuable message, but I have been forced out of really engaging with it because I can't get past the extreme conservatism and fear of the world around those who work out of the Brooklyn Tabernacle.
These churches seem to exist as bubbles in the world.
The church I want to engage with is not a bubble, but a glorious portrayal of God's love in the world.
Cymbala’s testimony of God’s work is fascinating. We spent years in churches with great doctrine and plenty of programs, but very little evidence of the Holy Spirit at work. How much more does God want to do in each of our lives and our churches if we would only devote ourselves to prayer and allow the Holy Spirit to work? Inspiring and refreshing!
unexpectedly, I loved this book. simple, but profound. my pencil marks are scribbled on many of its pages. @goodreadsfriends, please read so we can chat abt it
No more neat little meetings, even with the benefit of 100 percent correct doctrine." (153)This is the underlying Charismatic theme: Biblical truths and the teachings of Christ inhibit the Holy Spirit.
As such, the book opens with what amounts to an argument against Cymbala’s original pastorate.Oddities permeate the book, such as the contrast of Bible against prayer.
Cymbala rightly notes the essential role of prayer in ministry, and he speaks of preaching, but not of preaching God’s Word (contra 2 Tm 4:2).
He writes of listening to God (e.g., 59) but not in terms of reading God’s Word.
His emphasis gives the wrong impression of God’s will for Christians; while it is possible to become puffed up with knowledge (1 Cor 8:1), Jesus’ prayer for His disciples is that God would sanctify them through Scripture (John 17:17).
The story of his daughter and her trevails away from God and miraculous return is a good example of Jim's ability to put The Word into the real and everyday.
Jim is gifted in plain speak and approaches his ministry without haughty eloquence and claims of high standing.
The Lord said to him at that moment, "Jim, if you and your wife have any value to me, if you have any purpose in my work--it has to do with this odor.
Fresh Wind Fresh Fire is a wonderful introduction to experience the gifts God has granted Jim in his ministry.
This book lead me deeper into an understand of need for a dependence upon prayer in the church and how what is missing from the church today is truly and simply a calling out to God, which is what Prayer is.
if you believe Jesus is God and the savior of this world, and you believe in the Bible, then the truth he brings here will be impactful and eye opening in ways you cant deny.
It is a beautiful book and I can't wait to read it again soon.
The author continued by stating that preaching all to often becomes a time of entertainment for many churches...people just want to hear a good sermon rather than see the power of God.2) The importance of Holy Spirit life in a church.
The author downplays the oratorical skills of a pastor and magnifies the work of the Holy Spirit.
Some of the illustrations given concerning the people reached and the power of prayer to change their lives resonated with me.After having read the book, I am impressed to visit the Brooklyn Tabernacle to see this life-changing station in the middle of Brooklyn.
This is an excellent book for any Christian who wants to discover what "The Church" is supposed to look like, and act like.
We do not really take God for His Word, we are not serious about prayer, nor do we humbly seek Him for all things, knowing that we can do nothing good in our strength.
I was greatly encouraged, and energized to start doing my small part in my home and in my local church to take a stand for truth and holiness and simply call out to God and pray.
This book is a must for anyone interested in starting any prayer group in their home or church.
I have been having a hard time with church to say the least.
This guy's story is good and he tears down all the falsehood and hypocrisy of churches today and what we have made Christianity and going to church to become.
In looking for a church, I have just been wanting to find somewhere that loves God and loves people (aka EVERYONE: the poor, homeless, gay, scary, etc.) to the best of their ability.
Jim's church does exactly that well and highlights the importance of prayer and a spirit filled congregation.
To all who aren't sure what the heck is going on with the church- READ THIS.
Certainly an inspirational read, but I have some problems with it. I always feel uneasy about interpreting "answered prayer" stories as proof of God's faithfulness, because we've all experienced unanswered prayers. Was God unfaithful in those situations? Of course not.This book wasn't very intellectual - which is fine, but it definitely feels like a collection of stories intended to "prove" that God will come through in specific ways if we just ask him hard enough. My experience is that God's provision is typically far more confusing (and wonderful) than that.
I'm giving this 5 stars on the sheer basis that I read it cover to cover on my own in a relatively short amount of time. The number of times I've done that with a biblically based spiritual improvement book (what do you call that category??) that wasn't for a bible study is slim to none. There are stories and ideas in here that are truly life-changing (Huh. Go figure. Bible based ideas are life-changing. ;) and will stick with me for a very long time.
This was a quick little book. I read it in just one evening.I really loved the first half, all the history of the Brooklyn Tabernacle. It is incredible what God did through these people.I read this for a book club & when I first saw it, I was kind of bummed. It didn't seem like something I would like at all, but in fact I thought it was pretty good.
At first, I was drawn in by his stories that occurred at his church and then grew rather tired of so many stories. However, as he started talking more about the power of the Spirit and exhorting believers to live in the Spirit, all of the stories made perfect sense. This is a convicting book in a positive way. It does not induce guilt but a longing for a more intimate connection with God.
Friss szél friss tűzNagyon egyszerű de alapvető könyv arról, hogy nem kell semmilyen új módszert kitalálnunk az ébredéshez, csak meg kell tanulnunk imádkozni, Istenhez kiáltani és engedelmeskedni.
I really liked it. It was very convicting as far as realizing that prayer is super important and that it isn't emphasized enough in today's Church. I didn't agree with everything he said, but overall it was an excellent.
Great book. I was blessed, encouraged, and taught through it. This book planted seeds for my discovery of a life dependent upon the Holy Spirit (still discovering) and has caused seismic shifts in some of my views on how church is done.
I'm going to pray more. Let's make the main thing the main thing.
Simply the best book on spiritual renewal and prayer.
Good book on prayer and the need for churches to be built on what God can do, not what we can do.
This book is worth anyone's time but as a pastor, it is the most encouraging and motivating books I've read in a long time. It is almost 20 years old but just as relevant today as ever.
--> Daca noi Il chemam pe Domnul, El ne-a promis in Cuvantul Sau ca ne va raspunde, ca ii va aduce pe cei nemantuiti la El si ca va turna din Duhul Sau peste noi. Daca nu-L chemam – El nu ne-a promis nimic – absolut nimic. E foarte simplu. Nu are importanta ce predic eu sau ce pretindem ca credem in mintile noastre, viitorul nostru va depinde de timpul acordat rugaciunii.-->„Miscat de dragostea si multumirea pe care aparitia lui a produs-o, David an spus: „”Am sunat imediat ce am aflat de
El nu le poate rezista celor care se umilesc si cu sinceritate admit cat de mare nevoie au de El. De fapt, slabiciunea noastra face loc puterii Lui. In mod asemanator, oamenii nu raman nici ei indifierenti in fara sinceritatii."--> "Dar stiam ca Dumnezeu avea sa faca mai mult...si ca va face daca noi ii punem la indemana un pamant bun in care El sa poata lucra."-->	Daca noi Il chemam pe Domnul, El ne-a promis in Cuvantul Sau ca ne va raspunde, ca ii va aduce pe cei nemantuiti la El si ca va turna din Duhul Sau peste noi.
In “Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire,” Pastor Jim Cymbala emphatically makes the case for making prayer a bigger part of every Christian’s life.
He effectively supports his arguments with some lessons from the Bible and some lessons from history, but probably most importantly, lessons from his experience as pastor of Brooklyn Tabernacle Church.Jim Cymbala became pastor of the Brooklyn Tabernacle in 1971 without any formal training other than a college sociology degree and a few years of business experience.
My church and I (and probably all of humanity) need to take seriously the Biblical examples of centering worship and life around prayer.The Brooklyn Tabernacle has a strong music ministry.
"Fresh Wind Fresh Fire" was recommended to me by a friend at church who runs the monthly men's breakfast.
Real, honest and open prayers are needed more than ever in today's church.
Then, the church will have the "FRESH WIND FRESH FIRE" that Pastor Cymbala describes.
I have to be driven to pray." (p 49)"Charles Spurgeon once remarked that 'the best style of prayer is that which cannot be called anything else but a cry" (p 55)"Our store of spiritual power apparently dissipates with time.
Fill our churches with your fresh wind and fresh fire.
I admit that I never wanted to read this book, as I had a preconceived notion or idea that something was off - perhaps an overemphasis on Spirit filled experience and an under emphasis on Scripture full doctrine.
Having read this book I can now say that nothing could be further from the truth.This book showcases what God can do if and when we believe He actually exists and wants to do something about all the problems we see around us - like sin and lack of faith.
