https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22836957-the-revenant
I hate Leonardo like some people hate going to the dentist.
Like people in Hell hate heaters.
Like Star Wars fans hate Jar Jar Binks.
Of course the book nerd in me, the geeky purest, wouldn't allow me to watch such a movie without reading the source material first.
The action in this book is superb.
You can tell dude studied his ass off.
At least when I watch the movie I won't have to read whole chapters about some fucker trying to locate the old-west equivalent of a Big Mac.In summation: If you're a research whore, this should pay your bills.
Damn.That was a good western.Equal parts Larry McMurtry and Jack London with a nod to Cormac McCarthy, writer Michael Punke delivers a riveting tale of survival and revenge.In the summer of 1823, fur trapper Hugh Glass, an experienced frontiersman, lowers his guard for a moment and in true Jack London fashion, nature demonstrates how unforgiving a mistake can be, as Glass is viciously mauled by a grizzly bear.
The western plains in the early 1800s were a true wilderness, at least two generations before “the west was won”.
Little things like blankets, lighters, automatic rifles, and those two words that kept running through my mind while reading: ANTI.
BIOTICS.The book is based on the famous true story of Hugh Glass, the frontiersman working as a trapper for the Rocky Mountain Fur Company in 1823 gathering beaver pelts along the Missouri River.
I'd never heard of the story of Hugh Glass and I'm totally in awe of how much of a badass he was.
And Punke uses an omniscient POV that's great for historical fiction that really gives the reader more info about the world and more historical scope beyond the immediate story.
3.5 StarsThis "gritty" adventure tells the story of Hugh Glass and the near death experience of his encounter with a grizzly in the year 1823.Relieved of all means to protect himself, abandoned and left for dead on the wild frontier amidst Indians and other foe, Hugh uses his knowledge and tracking skills to seek revenge against his vile compatriots.Enjoyed this exciting novel for the most part and the historical data and background information of the time, but I was a bit disappointed with the somewhat abrupt ending wishing the author would have taken it to its conclusion as noted in his historical note.
My boyfriend was completely brilliant in this film.So I'm bumping this up on the list because I want more.
If the characters aren't freezing, they're starving or looking for a safe place to sleep.This is a particularly excellent read for a cold winter night with a cup of something hot to drink near your elbow.This would have been a five star read except for the ridiculously unsatisfying conclusion.It felt like The Revenant suddenly turned from a survival/adventure/revenge story into a tame morality play.I realize that it is a morality play the whole time, but with all the action and nail-biting tension, it doesn't "feel" like one until the ending- which I won't ruin for you, except to say that it was very lame.My husband read a version of this story called Lord Grizzly when he was in college so, while I was into this one, we were comparing notes on the differences between the two works.
So the book kicks off with Leonardo DiCaprio getting mauled by a bear so that alone may be enough for you to wanna read this book.
The bear attack will be in the movie.
Don't mess around with bears, man.
Did I expect to really enjoy a book set in the early 1800s about fur traders wandering around trading fur and shooting guns and whatnot?
It gets a little too descriptive and slows down just a little at times, but it's a great manly adventure story of survival and revenge.
Great way to kick off the year!
Because some things are too funny to keep to myself . . .
This is a dark and gruesome tale of the wild mountain west and the treacherous planes. The key story here is of survival and revenge, tragic heroes and scoundrels, Mountain Men and Natives, truth and fiction. I am glad that they made a movie of this book, because I am not sure my attention would not have been drawn to it without the hype.I recommend this book, but only to the strong of stomach!
This book of frontier justice is based on a true story and the movie is based on the book.....by the time you get to the movie, the facts have been considerably altered.
I'll report back after I see the movie on which I think was better - it's usually the book, but this time I'm betting on the movie.
The book is good, but not as good as I'd hoped for.A 3.5 for me.** UPDATE: I finally did see the movie this weekend.
I feel the same way about the movie that I did about the book - a 3.5.
After reading the real-life ending to Hugh Glass's angry journey, I don't blame Mr. Punke for writing some of his own details for readers.
If you are interested in the historically documented events of Hugh Glass's life, click HERE for an online article titled The True Story Behind The Revenant, as Told in 1939.
But for Glass, there was a sense of sacrament that flowed from the mountains like a font, an immortality that made his quotidian pains seem inconsequential."Note: It turns out the author Michael Punke wears many hats.
Assim, irei socorrer-me da versão que me pareceu mais plausível, que poderá ou não, ser aquela que mais se aproxima do livro.Deixo assim a dúvida no ar, tendo em vista minorar o inconveniente dos eventuais spoilers introduzidos!...Posto isto, resta-me então começar:Carrascos ou SalvadoresHugh Glass, um batedor e explorador americano que viveu no século XIX, foi atacado e gravemente ferido por um urso, durante uma expedição.Tendo perdido autonomia -- o urso deixara-o num estado moribundo -- tornara-se um empecilho para os seus companheiros.Abatê-lo seria uma solução prática e relativamente plausível!...Mas não!...
I never had any real interest in reading this book, being already familiar with the story of Hugh Glass.
On top of that, I had already seen the horrid yawner of a movie which involved a pathetic DiCaprio wandering shivering over the Canadian countryside (and later describing a Chinook as evidence of our impending doom from global warming).
Unfortunately, a co-worker reasoned that, since he had once seen me reading a book, it would necessarily follow that I would want to read anything that had paper sandwiched between two covers.
I reluctantly read the darn thing.Surprisingly, I didn't hate the book.
Okay! Now that I've read it I can head to the theater tomorrow. I thought the story was good. Punke admits that he has taken a lot of liberties with the story but all in all he still presented us with most of the basic facts. There are some big gaps in the action but they are filled with what I consider some pretty interesting historical knowledge and that is a subject that I find interesting anyway so the lags didn't bother me too much. Well...maybe a little.
Whoa!
I am hesitant to say it's breathtaking, but it's breathtaking.
As brutal as the movie was, the book is more brutal and oddly enough more visceral.
Nature and open range were not only an element but a part, an additional character of this book.
And what a foe it was.
Yet this was also about folly of men.
Kinda reminds me and puts me in mind to recite one of my wordlings from 2013.Don't be afraid of naturedon't be afraid of menbut be oh so very afraid of nature of men.Read it.
p.s ; aren't teddy bears supposed to be cuddly and cute?
It’s so compelling because it is based the real life of Hugh Glass.
In the afterward, the author Michael Punke explains that many of the moments in his book are in fact fiction.
I could not imagine going through it.This book was well worth my time (l listened to the audio version).
Because some of the book was difficult to picture, and other parts were just so-so, I feel the movie experience may actually eclipse that of the book.
At 272 pages, it’s a quick read.
If you’ve thought about reading before seeing the movie, or just to check out the story, I’d say give it a go.
Now, half-dead and unable to stand, he sets out to crawl his way across hostile and untamed land to seek revenge on those who abandoned him.Soon to be a major motion picture starring Leonardo DiCaprio.
Or, to a lesser extent, the book The Stars My Destination (although in a much different time period).The Revenant is based on the true story of Hugh Glass, an American fur trader.
It's hard to believe that anyone could have lived this story.
Granted, I'll never be as "weather-hardened" as any one of the characters in this story, but my life expectancy should be at least twice as long.
Hugh Glass was a man who lived life on the edge.
The Revenant is a novel about Glass' confrontation with the grizzly, and then being abandoned by his colleagues.
But Punke somehow managed to keep my interest alive and I don't remember when was the last time I was so fascinated by a biography, fictional though it is.
Punke does provide an author's note at the end where he describes the fictional parts.
Hugh Glass is fascinating and I really admire his spunk and his perseverance.
Punke did his survivalist research, that's for sure. Every single step of every single thing Glass did to make fires and traps, etc. etc. on his long trek back to civilization after getting mauled by a bear is in excruciating detail in the blandest prose possible.If any book could benefit from visual shortcuts and a condensing of action & time, it's this one. Should have just stuck with the movie.Total snorefest.
The Revenant is a story of survival, determination, rage, and want for revenge. The overall plot was good but the detail (while useful for the story) made the story hard to read at times. I found at times it read very fictional and during others it seemed very non fiction which made the story seem chunked. Michael Punke did a fantastic job with his research. I loved that this story had me looking into Hugh Glass' history and the 19th century fur trade.
I like survival stories, and this one is based on a true story of a trapper back in the 1800s that is with a company of men who are out doing their own scouting when he gets mauled by a bear.
He does this because he needs to crawl on it in order to get back to the fort that is 300 miles away.By now I am thinking that I will just read this book until I learn all of his survival skills, because, well, I don’t know, maybe someday I will be mauled by a bear and need to know how to survive.
Perhaps, I've read too many good Western/Frontier novels (Blood Meridian, Butcher's Crossing, etc.], so a 3.5 star book isn't going to thrill me.
My big two beefs with the novel were the prose (again good, just not great) and the ending (meh).So, this ends up being one of those novels where the movie ends up being more expansive and beautiful and perhaps, yes, artful than the original book.
The movie ended up being more violent than the book (yes, the book was violent, but in a more contained way).
Die Tatsache, dass derzeit die Verfilmung mit Leonardo DiCaprio und Tom Hardy auf den Kinoleinwänden zu bewundern ist, weckte mein Interesse nur noch mehr – immerhin ist der Film für den ein oder anderen Oscar nominiert – und das machte es für mich noch umso interessanter, vor dem Gang ins Kino auch noch die dazugehörige Buchvorlage zu lesen.“The Revenant” ist ein sehr bildlicher Überlebensbericht, anders lässt es sich nicht zusammenfassen.
Als Bridger und Fitzgerald eines Tages Indianer am Fluss sehen, machen sie sich vor Angst aus dem Staub – Fitzgerald lässt dabei Glass’ heißgeliebte Waffe und auch seine anderen überlebenswichtigen Gegenstände mitgehen…Es ist unglaublich, was Glass für ein Überlebenswillen haben musste, um all das ohne vernünftige medizinische Behandlung zu überleben und sich alleine den Missouri entlangzuschleppen.
Hugh Glass is among the Company's finest men, an experienced frontiersman and an expert tracker.
But when a scouting mission puts him face-to-face with a grizzly bear, he is viciously mauled and not expected to survive.The Company's captain dispatches two of his men to stay behind and tend to Glass before he dies, and to give him the respect of a proper burial.
With shocking grit and determination, Glass sets out crawling inch by inch across more than three thousand miles of uncharted American frontier, negotiating predators both human and not, the threat of starvation, and the agony of his horrific wounds.
Upon finishing it my first thought was that the ending was anticlimactic and the subtitle (A Novel of Revenge) was not well suited for the book.
However, after thinking about it a little more I realized that perhaps the ending, though fictionalized, is a very good summation of the nature of revenge in the real world...
For anyone who craves more of this kind of thing (but perhaps less fiction) I would recommend "Sources of the River", an excellent book that is based on the extensive journals of Canada's version of Lewis and Clark, David Thompson.
A great read - gripping, well-written, and tightly constructed.
I'm not much of a reader of American Westerns, but I found The Revenant to be an interesting mix that is not easily placed in any obvious genre - it is part historical fiction but also part Undaunted Courage, part Into Thin Air. It is a fast-paced, entertaining read.
I also highly recommend it as a gift for those readers who profess never to read novels because they are "too boring": the story includes great historical detail about, among other things, the fur trade, Mountain Men, outdoor survival skills, and the incredible natural terrain of the West.
It was very cut and dried distant third person, but as an account of slightly fictionalized true historical events though, I do think it made the story of Glass accessible to a modern audience.
The book is very different than the movie, but this is much closer to the real story of Hugh Glass's life.Another fall back of the book is the ending.
I'm glad I read it if for nothing else but to see a TRUE tale of human survival (my fave), and to see a glimpse of early settler life.
Hugh Glass is a trapper who works for the Rocky Mountain Fur Company.
In 1823, while scouting food for the men he was traveling with, he accidentally comes upon a bear who mauls him, while trying to protect her cubs.
Glass is next to death.
The company tries to carry him, as they continue their travels to the Fort, but find that this is not working so decide to leave him, to prevent their possible detection by the local rampaging Indians.
The story continues as he seeks revenge against the two men who left him to die.
I have no idea why this was supposed to be so awesome. I liked it but it was a firm '3 star' like, not a 'holy shit that was so awesome' like. Maybe the film will enlighten me.
Hugh Glass was a real life fellow who as a child, loved to read.
Young Glass faked his ability to understand French and was taken on as a hand by Lafitte's crew instead of being thrown overboard like most of his fellow sailors.
Two "friends" from the Rocky Mountain Fur Company were the men he sought to find and punish, and as a man who seemingly had come back from the dead, Glass was indeed a revenant for them.This historical fiction was well researched, as best can be for frontier history 200 years old, but the story was told so beautifully, it was impossible to separate out the poetic license.
