https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40603587-the-last-wish
And if you read fantasy, there's probably 15 or so more like it on your bookshelf or your e-reader of choice.So here's my recommendation: put down Lord of the Rings.
It'll give him a chance to write a little further ahead, and you'll get a chance to read it again before the next one comes out.
Just for the 2 days or so that it will take you to devour a series of short stories that have a totally different flavor.
A Netflix production of the Witcher is now confirmed, set to portray the book series as a TV show. Despite being an adaptation abolitionist, I am actually somewhat excited! “People” - Geralt turned his head - “like to invent monsters and monstrosities. Then they seem less monstrous themselves.” Arguably the least famous one among my favourite fantasy series, The Witcher Saga by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski is something of a diamond in the rough. This is not something I’d recommend to just abo
And it's amazingly good.Like a lot of other people, I was introduced to the world of Andrzej Sapkowski through the video games The Witcher and The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings.
That does not mean you cannot enjoy them if you’ve already played the games, but to fully experience this wonderful saga in the best way possible, reading the books first is the way to go.Sapkowski introduces the reader to a beautiful combination of Slavic mythology, a distinct eastern European setting, and classical high fantasy.
Last summer I became completely obsessed with The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, where I took screenshots like this:(Add me on Steam!)And once I was finished with the DLC I knew I had to finally read the books to fill the void I now carry in my heart.This book was translated from Polish to English. It contains seven short stories, and introduces our main protagonist in both games and books, Geralt.   “People”—Geralt turned his head—“like to invent monsters and monstrosities. Then they seem less monstrous
This story starts out in true Witcher fashion: with Geralt having sexy time with a random girl!
Again, Geralt is traveling and meets with Queen Calanthe, and she tells him what she truly thinks of witchers.
Anyway, the devil, named Torque, likes to play games and Geralt and Dandelion end up being captured.
Geralt doesn't have any time to think about this, because Yennefer comes to town with the genie, which is destroying everything.
Geralt then makes his last wish, which none of us know what it truly is, only that it binds him and Yennefer together forever.
While not as well-known as the examples above when it comes to myths and fairy tales Slavic people can give others good run for their money.
This Slavic witch lives in a hut on chicken legs which can turn around using them if you know the right words (and feel lazy to walk around to get to the front door like most passing by heroes do).
This means his job is to hunt monsters - most of them are based on Slavic mythology.
I mean I would be equally pissed off in his place; poor supernatural creature.
It's like this: at the beginning of the book, my new boyfriend, Geralt, is convalescing in a temple after one too many I Am a Badass Witcher Sessions (IAaBWS™).
Geralt is a super hot mutant whose mission in life is to kill monsters and weird creatures and other evil stuff of the sort.
Having so brilliantly demonstrated that Geralt was hot and that Geralt was mine, I shall now tell you about the monsters and weird creatures and other evil stuff my Geralt hunts so competently.
And stuff!» And the moral of this Butchering Monsters is the Most Wondrous Line of Work Ever Crappy Non Review (BMitMWLoWECNR™) is: Geralt is amazing.
A few of the stories were casually misogynistic, but there were also some really good ones in here as well.
Sort of a tragic story, but seems to be a good introduction to the Witcher.
The wizard happens to be Geralt’s sort of friend?
It gave some interesting background info on Geralt, and feels like it’s setting up a return for some of these characters.The Edge of the World: 3/5Halfway through it played out a lot differently than I thought it would.
Built up some cool mythology of the world, still kind of a plain story though.
Yennefer is pretty bad ass, maybe this author isn't always a misogynist?
Hmmmm, I listened to this on audio instead of reading my paperback and the sound was really low so I didn't catch all of it.
I know!
I don't know if or when I could ever get a PS4 so I shall wait.
I also think I could be in love with Geralt, don't judge me!
I fall in love with lots of them in my books, so there.
Anyhoo, I'm going to read the rest of them and not try the audio from Overdrive just in case.
It's great for re-reads but I don't know.

And so — for the type of book it was — this initial installment of The Witcher series was was a damn fine read.The protagonist, Geralt of Rivia, is a witcher: A man trained and transformed to hunt and destroy monsters.
In his world, monsters — few though they may be — still torment humankind, and to be rid of their threat, nobles and commoners alike are willing to employ witchers to hunt down and destroy these creatures.
But these were minor issues in the scope of the reading experience.Overall, The Last Wish was a great introduction to The Witcher series.
Review iz 2014.:Iako nemam šta pametno za reći, osećam da moram da napišem nešto o knjizi koju sam pročitala u 24 sata, doduše, nije da sam čitala sve vreme, stigla sam i kupatilo da oribam.Elem, epska fantastika nije moj fah, moram priznati.
One of those hasty actions leaves a great impact on Gerlat’s life because thanks to Dandelion, he crosses paths with Yennefer and her role in Geralt’s life is a story of its own.In the end, Geralt once again did his job, and completed this quest.
There's bits about towers and girls, beasts and beauties, a woman and some dwarves, and so on, that make their way into the stories.I could absolutely visualize how this book was turned into a video game, though I haven't played it.
There isn't really enough background to understand the claims or build a world-view; one has to just take these statements as context for this particular tale.I also would have enjoyed greater detail on the 'monsters.' In general, detail was limited to the particular one in conflict with Geralt at that time, but Sapkowski is in the habit of dropping far more creature names without explanation: "All sorts of filth has sprung up.
Magician was really the first book I read that broke the High Fantasy drought, but it wasn't very good and I was disappointed.
I went in thinking it was the first book of a series-a general High Fantasy Trilogy that are so prevalent in that genre.
Having one female character who is in charge of her own destiny isn't good enough, particularly considering she's used magic to make herself "beautiful" and ends up being just a Vagina in the end anyway.
Sure, that might not be why you read High Fantasy and for you this book will probably be 4, no, 5 stars.
At present, I'm working my way through The Witcher 2 video game which is probably the main reason why I've finally decided to tackle The Last Wish, which has been sitting in my to-read list for almost two years.
I am in love with the game so far, and curiosity naturally led me to the books that inspired it.The book collects seven short stories in a "frame" format, so we have an overarching frame story and six more that are told in a flashback or a memory, each forming a story of its own.
Interestingly, while I was reading this, I couldn't help but compare this book and the Witcher to Robert E.
The Last Wish introduces us to the legendary Geralt of Rivia the White Wolf and his exploits as a Witcher.
I think it's made easier with the fact that it's rife with sly humor and ribald exchanges between the characters.I've always had a little crush on Geralt of Rivia ever since I started playing The Witcher, and he doesn't disappoint in the book.
Because of it's non-linear storytelling format, some character development wasn't really focused on.Highly recommended for fans of the game and for those who want a crash course on the world of The Witcher.
Just a heads up, this is a collection of short stories or tales from Geralt's cases/killings.
The Voice of Reason chapters seem to be set in present time.
Geralt's friend, Dandilion, who I nicknamed Dandy in my head, was a great secondary character.
She's the head priestess at a Melite temple and a mother figure to Geralt.
For a much better review & to know if Geralt is available or not, read Sarah's.Another much better review with nice illustrations of Slavic mythology characters, read Evgeny's.
Sapkowski nos arrastra de escena en escena sin dejarnos tiempo a respirar, encontrando un tono muy coherente durante toda la novela, con una disparidad de personajes increíblemente bien perfilada, que nos ayuda a ir conociendo poco a poco todo su mundo sin necesidad de extensas explicaciones.El principal punto flaco por así decirlo del libro viene siendo su estructura obligada, al ser un compendio de relatos cortos, siempre habrá historia que te atraigan más que otras, o historias que parece que se quedan realmente cortas, pero ese es para mi el pequeño defecto de casi todo este tipo de libros.
Yes, someday I'll write a review for this whole thing and then probably retire and go to live to Brokilon forest as a recluse, but I'm just not ready yet to abandon social life, so hold your horses! For now let's discuss this fun ideas for casting for Witcher series - this https://www.forbes.com/sites/insertco... and this https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ce8Xn..., shall we?And this http://www.dualshockers.com/casting-t...
4.5/5. The Last Wish short story was brilliant, although many of the others were great too!Onwards to the next book! x
This is a collection of short stories loosely hung together about The Witcher: a not human breed of monster hunter who are few and far between.
This frame story actually manages to reveal a lot of detail about Gerald, his life and background and the monsters he fights are many and varied.
I really enjoyed the author's clever use of other fairy tales, changing the narrative to suit his purposes.I think the next book is also a collection of short stories before the novels begin- before reading this I may have been tempted just to start with volume 3 , The Blood of Elves, but now I think I will continue with the shorter tales as they are so good in their own right.
Both “The Last Wish” and “Sword of Destiny” precede the full length novels. They provide background information on the characters, and sets the stage for the series.My review for both books can be found here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
"Evil is evil, Stregobor,” said the witcher seriously as he got up. “Lesser, greater, middling, it's all the same. Proportions are negotiated, boundaries blurred. I’m not a pious hermit. I haven't done only good in my life. But if I’m to choose between one evil and another, then I prefer not to choose at all." Disclosure: I am going to start being more strict with my ratings and very stingy with giving out 5 stars. So while this is a 3 star rating, it's by no means terrible. Let me explain.I wa
Disclosure: I am going to start being more strict with my ratings and very stingy with giving out 5 stars.
So I feel the 3 stars is the most fair rating.
The characters, mainly Geralt, were what I liked most about this book.
I've never really felt so "meh" about a book before.
Granted, the last story The Last Wish was rather good, but that was the only time I felt a twinge of excitement.
One factor that might have made me lose enjoyment was that I did something I never do, and for very good reason: I hyped it up before starting it.
*2016 Re-reading Grain of Truth - my old time favourite. :)Right, time to put this beauty back on my favourites shelf where it belongs.After so many years and so many re-reads I still think it's awesome!Highly recommended to all fantasy and sword-and-sorcery fans.
The Last Wish was more than up to task in satisfying my curiosity; I am now hooked on The Witcher.I abandoned my gaming self a long time ago and as such, have not heard about The Witcher until someone mentioned that the image of Anomander Rake brought to mind Geralt of Rivia from the video game.
For those who have read my Malazan reviews, you will know that Anomander Rake is one of my favourite grimdark characters of all time.
While this was an enjoyable read, it had a few elements that turned it into a not very good book by the end.This book is written as a frame story which is a nice way of saying it's a set of stories within a story.
Each of the shorter stories seem to be based loosely on fairly tales, while the main story is that of a witcher Geralt and his adventures and life.
Not only were the meanings the same, but the language used was the same which made a few of the stories a bit tedious to get through.
There was close to one interesting female character besides Nenneke, but (view spoiler)[she didn't speak.
This is the only time I've had a good experience with reading a book due to it being related to a video game.
It probably helps a lot that the game was based on the book, and not vice versa.
I really loved the way this book is paced, with interlinked short stories about the character cast that did not follow a linear chronological order.
The Polish origin of the author gave this book a rather fresh feel, as it drew inspiration from sources rarely seen in English language fantasy.My one regret is that more of this series hasn't been translated yet, I'd love to continue reading.
This is actually a collection of short stories loosely strung together to form some sort of whole.
It is really just an introduction to the world of The Witcher; a teaser, if you will, of things to come.
It never comes to full fruition, but it is always present, just keeping you closer to the edge of your seat than is perfectly comfortable.The translation from Polish to English is fine, however there are some odd turns of phrase that seemed slightly out of place.
Towards the end of the book there were some rough edges and at least one simile that was out of sorts with the fantasy setting (an anachronism).
The Last Wish (Saga o Wiedźminie #1) by Andrzej Sapkowski is one kick ass ride of a fantasy. My grown son said it is also a video game but I don't play but this would be one I would want if it was like the book. This has so many creative scenes, action, imagination, and clever sorcerer skills that it makes reading this book a real joy. Great plot, characters, fantasy, and action. Loved it. I got this from the library and I am going to see if they have more by this author!
(The Beauty and the Beast is retold through Geralt's eyes, and was one of my favorite stories.)This book is described as a series of short stories, and essentially, I suppose that's what it is, but it was tied together so well it truly doesn't feel that way at all.
The king contracts the witcher to help reverse the curse that makes his daughter striga.
Both the anecdotes and the present tense were interesting and fun to follow, and woven together so well it did not feel like a series of short stories.Geralt pirouettes a lot, which I find hysterical because people who don't like the games always complain about his ballerina style.
داستان های کوتاه و قشنگی داشت که اولش آدم فکر میکنه بی ربطن ولی بعد میفهمه که نه خیلی هم بی ربط نیستن و یه نقاط مشترکی دارن.استفاده نویسنده از جملات کوتاه رو دوست داشتم و نکته مثبت کتاب این بود که به هیچ وجه اضافه گویی نداشت.
این قدر خوب بود که تقریبا سه روزه خوندمش.بخش هایی از نقاط مبهم گیم هم برام روشن شد.
بلافاصله کتاب دوم رو شروع میکنم.سر آخر واقعا باید به آقای طاووسی مسرور دست مریزاد گفت با این ترجمه عالیش.ترجمه بسیار روان و وفادار به متن بود و تقریبا اصلا سانسور نداشت.
