https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/587666.Like_the_Flowing_River
منذ وقعت عيناي على هذا الكتاب ..اليوم ..
وقفتُ برهة بين دفتيه ..
اطلعتُ على أيامي معه وثارت في نفسي أشجان وأحزان ..هذا الكتاب ..
وفي كل مرة تحس أن المكان ينير ويشع ..
وفي كل مرة تحس في قلبك الراحة وتقر عينك وتبرد ..باولو كويلو في هذه التحفة الفنية الراقية ..
الذي يجري دون توّقف ..وكعادته باولو ..
يسحرك حتى النهاية فلا تشعر بمضي الوقت وأنت بين كفيه ..لا أنصح فقط ..
بل أقول أن من لم يحب باولو ولم يقرأ هذا الكتاب ..
هي فرصة لتغيير العالم !ولكم فائق تقديري واحتراميم.محمد الصالح
Ser Como o Rio que Flui = Like the Flowing River, Paulo CoelhoIn this collection of thoughts and stories, Coelho, author of 'The Alchemist', offers his personal reflections on a range of subjects from archery and music to elegance, travelling and the nature of good and evil. 'Like the Flowing River' also includes jewel-like fables, packed with meaning and retold in Coelho's inimitable style.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه جولای سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: چون رود جاری باش؛ نویسنده: پائولو کوئیلو (کوئلیو)؛ متر

لحظة وجدت كل الإجابات ، تبدلّت كل الأسئلة !!
" /" حمدت الله لأنه وهبني الوعي لأفهم أن ما كان يجب أن يحدث قد حدث ،ولم يحدث شئ " /سأل رجل ما رجل حكيم : (( أود أن أعرف ماهو المضحك لدى الكائنات البشرية ))...فقال الحكيم : إنهم يفكرون دائما بعكس مالديهم .
وهم مستعجلون للكبر, ثم يتحسرون على طفولتهم الضائعة.
يفقدون صحتهم لكي يملكوا المال ..
ثم يفقدون مالهم من أجل امتلاك الصحة ...
يفكرون بكثير من القلق في المستقبل بحيث أنهم ينسون الحاضر..
There are a lot of insights of human life that I can learn from this amazing book...I love the way he wrote all of the stories which were contained of enchanting messages for anyone who read it, especially me. It helps me smile, wrinkle my eye brows whenever I didn't get the point yet of one story, helps me passing my day, even when I got stuck by the traffic jam.In short, I must say that this book is loveable...and I love it.

Each Christmas, we have an exchange of gifts.
The actual exchange of gifts take place during the annual Christmas party.
The wish list contained all (or some) of the things that we would like to receive for Christmas.
Last Christmas (2011), I was collecting Nicholas Sparks' books.
This Christmas (2012), I was collecting Paulo Coelho books.
So, naturally, I wrote down *Paulo Coelho books* on my wish list.
To cut the story short, I received the book 'Like the Flowing River'.
Yet, like only Paulo Coelho could, he transported me to different worlds with an open mind and an open heart.
Most of these articles made me think of the different possibilities that may happen in my life.There were a hundred or so stories and articles contained in Coelho’s Like the Flowing River, and here are the ones that I liked: Prepared for Battle, But with a Few Doubts The Story of the Pencil * How to Climb Mountains Genghis Khan and His Falcon How One Thing Can Contain Everything * The Dead Man Wore Pyjamas The Solitary Piece of Coal * The Piece of Bread That Fell Wrong Side Up * Of Books and Libraries Prague, 1891 A Visitor Arrives from Morocco The Moment of Dawn * A Man Lying on the Ground * Raj Tells Me a Story * Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro Statutes for the New Millennium * Destroying and Rebuilding Travelling Differently A Fairy Tale * The Australian and the Newspaper Ad * The Tears of the Desert * Rome: Isabella Returns from Nepal * In the Blue Mountains The Cloud and the Sand Dune * Norma and the Good Things * In San Diego Harbour, California The Soldier in the Forest * The Funny Thing About Human Beings * Who Would Like This Twenty-Dollar Bill?
قصص ايمانية وفلسفية واحداث متنوعة من الحياة ، اجدها جدا ممتعة ، واحيانا يسرد بعض الاحداث اليومية ولك
Oh, why do I even bother anymore with Coelho?
His books are easy (read: shallow) reads but leave a bad aftertaste, much like how I feel after I'm done bingeing on junk food.
Write about spirituality in a stripped, simplified way, sprinkle in some pseudo-intellectualism and voila - you get a world famous author with little substance.
Coelho should be taught two things: one is that nuanced writing is a much better approach in philosophizing, and two, it would do the readers good if he could tone down his ego a bit.
There's something really bothersome about a writer who keeps wanting to show how enlightened he is.
القدرة تقود الإنسان إلى مواجهة قدره؛ والعطاء يجبره على اقتسام أفضل ما لديه مع الآخرين.4- لكل كائن بشري مُنحت فضيلة: القدرة على الاختيار.
ومن لا يستخدم هذه الفضيلة تتحوّل إلى لعنة ويختار آخرون بدلاً منه.5- لكل كائن بشري نعمتان: نعمة التصويب بطريقة صحيحة، ونعمة الخطأ في الحالة الثانية هناك دائماً تعليم يقوده إلى الطريق القويم.6- لكل إنسان أسطورة شخصية عليه أن يتمّها، وهذه الأسطورة هي سبب وجوده في هذا العالم.
لقد وُضعوا على طريقنا لكي نمتحن سيوفنا، وهم يستحقّون احترام نضالنا.مقطع 2: نحن نختار أعداءنا.12- كل الأديان تؤدي إلى الله، وكلها تستحق الاحترام ذاته.مقطع وحيد: الإنسان الذي يختار ديناً، يختار أيضاً طريقة جماعية في العبادة وفي اقتسام الأسرار.
But clearly Paulo Coleho expresses it in a way which no one ever has .He just puts things differently.This particular book of his is a collection of Short stories of his life.I am a religious person and this one particular story lingered in my mind for a long time .An old illiterate Arab used to pray with such fervor each night that the wealthy owner of the great caravan decided to summon him so as to talk to him.“Why do you pray with such devotion?
Shut up and do something interesting."Book: "What if I tell you stories about the essence of life?"Reader: "Sounds alright."Book: "A and B had an argument and stopped talking to each other.
:D"Reader: "I think you're as subtle as an atomic bomb."Book: *weeps* "You no me likey.
Anything else?"Book: "I have pretty stories about life and things you should think of which others have told me!" *tells stories*Reader: "At least something endurable..."Book: "Y u no me likey?!
Go away."Book: "I'll tell that all to my author and he will be very unhappy about it!" *runs away crying*Reader: "I will survive!
I never thought that a man can really be so profound and inspiring even in his daily life, until I read Paulo Coelho’s Like the Flowing River.Before I read this book, I have read Coelho’s book “The Alchemist”, and just credited him for a wonderful work of art.
But after reading this book, I discovered that Coelho is not only a masterful writer but also a man full of wisdom in real life.Like the Flowing River is a gleaning of accounts of his experiences, stories he had been told and thoughts than he had while traveling from one country to another.
Tal y como su subtítulo tan bien expresa (Pensamientos y reflexiones 1998-2005), los textos que nos vamos a encontrar aquí son de temática variada; a veces incluso parece que no existe ninguna relación posible entre ellos. Todos y cada uno (los textos, relatos o episodios de este libro, Ser como el río que fluye, de Paulo Coelho) llevan, eso sí, la impronta siempre trascendental y profunda tan marca de la casa y que tanto ha aportado al pensamiento y la filosofía actuales. Reseña completa: http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/paul...
Um conjunto de textos inpiradores que abordam a lenda pessoal, os guerreiros da luz, as suas próprias experiencias e a importância de nunca desistir. .,.Paulo Coelho sempre me encanta com as suas frases positivas!
Its full of open thoughts and refections, and it's like pieces of of fragmented mind of an author that he/she is continuously trying to gather. I loved it.
And in order for this to be possible...Lord, protect our decisions, because making Decision is a way of praying.
And in order for this to be possible...Lord, protect our action, because Action is a way of praying.
And in order to make this to be possible...Lord, protect our dreams, because to Dream is a way of praying.
And in order for this to be possible...Lord, protect us, because Life is the only way we have of making manifest Your miracle.
May the earth continue to transfom seeds into wheat, may we continue to transmute wheat into bread.
كآن ممل بالنسبة لي فبدآيته بس بعدهآ أندمجت كليآ معاه عمومن الكتآب جميل بأسلوبة البسيط مليء بنصوص من 
الكتاب تضمن نصوصًا نشرها الكاتب قبلًا في صورة مقالات في الفترة بين عامي 1998 و 2005، وقد تم تجميعها وإعادة إصدارها في هذا الكتاب .بين موضوعات عدَّة، وقضايا متنوعة ومختلفة، وأفكار مُلهِمة ومفيدة، وقصص مسلية وممتعة، وردت بين ثنايا الحكايات، ووجدتني مستمتعًا بها وبالإلهام الذي تعبِّر عنه، يمكنني أن أصف هذا الكتاب بالجيد .وكعادة "كويليو" في معظم كتاباته يمكن اعتبار هذا الكتاب دعمًا لمسألة الروح في رحلة الإنسان علي الأرض، فالكاتب هنا يقدم اعتناءه الخاص ورعايته المعتادة لقضية الروح، فنجد أغلب حديثه مُركّزًا علي معاني الإيمان والحب والسلام والتضحية والإيثار والفداء وتقبل الآخر واحترامه وتقديس الأخوة الإنسانية .
والكاتب هنا يقدم اسهاماته في سبيل تحقيق هذا السلام .
sebenarnya nggak terlalu suka sama cerpen, tapi kumpulan cerpen ini WOW..dapet pelajaran hidup bgtzzz, recomended.. :D
Early in a morning, I had a long swim on the deserted beach, then lied down under the shade of almond trees, reading the book, pondering my life, then swimming again.
The book is a combination of short stories the writer came across here and there, of events happened to him and his thoughts about them.
When he was small, he told his mother that he wanted to be a writer.
But he didn't want to be an engineer who writes.
Paulo Coelho represents a man who strives for his life, who lives his dreams, who believes in miracles and spreading his love for God, for human being, for beauty of the earth.
My friend told me to read this book about a year ago but I was never really interested in reading.
This summer I read a book for Paulo Coelho and I loved it.
Coelho's books aren't silly stories, they are stories with meanings.
This book has short stories about many different people that Coelho met during his life.
One of my favorite quotes in this book that Coelho mentioned was ''These days people think a lot of their future and forget to live their present.'' This sentence really touched me.
It has so many meanings and its in every persons life.
"He is trying to serve God just as I am.
We merely follow different laws.
It's a shame that people see only the differences that separate them.
If you were to look with more love, you would mainly see what we have in common, then half the world's problems would be solved." Like the Flowing River is a remarkable book worthy of praise.
Paulo Coelho compiled in this book some of his spiritual and human experiences that should be read by all of us.
His thoughts and reflections in this book reiterates the needs of innocence and love in this world.
Love.
Inspirational, reflective, & meditative. What a treasure of reflections! I thoroughly enjoyed this book & am happy it was selected for discussion for our book club's Read & Hike event. It's perfect for the occasion.
Given my previous experiences with Coelho's books, I was pretty excited about Like a Flowing River too, until I read a few reviews (mostly negative) of the book.
I am sure that not all the stories and thoughts shared will resonate with everyone but then you will still find something or the other in this book that you will cherish for the years to come.I will keep this book in my library for life, reading out some of the thoughts therein to myself and a few others to my nephew as he grows up.
This is a great book of meditations large and small in the form of stories and true vignettes from the life of the author. I recommend keeping it on your nightstand and reading just one or two stories before you go to bed--you'll sleep well. If you are familiar with Coelho's works, you'll recognize the "warrior of the light" and the reference to "personal legends" (see The Alchemist). The collection is a testament to Coelho's expansive horizon (see The Valkyries: An Encounter with Angels) and will likely inject you with little doses of inspiration for your personal legend.
read in January 2015كن كل النهر الذي يجري ، هل يصح التوقف ؟ طبعا لا .
مجموعه من اجمل وافضل ما قرأت من النصوص ،، تلك التاملات الفلسفيه وبعض الاحداث اليوميه يسردها كويلو بسلاسه ووضوح ، يأخذني اشبه برحله نحو عالم ما للوهله اظن انه عالم بعيد ولكن بعد هينه اجد انه يتحدث عن عالمي الذي اعيش فيه ولكنه يتحدث عن تلك الاشياء التي تعودت وجودها والفتها ومن ثم نسيتها وغفلت عنها ..
عن الاصدقاء والاحلام والتسامح ونبذ التعصب والعنف عن الايمان والخير الموجود في كل منا  باولو الذي يحاول صناعة الامل فينا يعلمنا البحث عن اسطورة شخصيه وعن حلم كبير شكرا باولو ..
Gosh this book started ok but towards the middle i was reading it half heartedly and the rest was just words ....i didn't "feel" anything the book had great stories and some of them was great and deep thought-ed to read and discover but most of it was not impressive and sometimes annoying there were a few part in the book that totally lost my interest and i was staring blankly at the words
كالنهر الذي يجري ..أول كتاب قرأته لباولو .. وقد كنت متابع له كثيراً في السابقأقرأ مقتبسات من مقالاته وبعض الأقوال كالنهر الذي يجري .. هو نهر يجري ولا يتوقف أيضاًمقالات كتبت بين عامي ١٩٩٨ و ٢٠٠٥ تحمل في طياتها قيم إنسانية كثيرة جداًوهي مرحلة مهمة في حياة باولو الكاتب .. بحيث تفسر لنا فلسفته ومدى جمال حرفة في هذه المقالاتالكتاب جميل جداً / يستحق القراءة مرات عديدة
I have witnessed many storms in my life. Most storms have taken me by surprise, and so I've had to learn - and very quickly too - to look farther off, to understand that I cannot control the weather, to practise the art of patience, and to respect nature's fury. Things do not always happen the way I would have wanted, and it is best that I get used to that.
