https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16703.The_Yiddish_Policemen_s_Union
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: It starts well and gets interesting in the middle, but the ending’s an afterthought and the text is befuddlingly flowery.
You know that fashion rule where, before you leave the house, you're supposed to quickly turn to a mirror and then take off the first accessory that catches your eye?
Well, I feel like Chabon should have done that with his prose, which is sometimes so ridiculously overwritten and boastful that it ruined an otherwise pretty interesting story.
With some writers, I want them to put on another accessory or two--please, would some bangle bracelets kill you?--but with Chabon I'm like, Dude, before you show yourself to the world, could you please take off that top hat, and maybe that feather boa, and maybe that fake moustache, too?
It's in my ex-wife's tote bag."The Yiddish Policeman's Union is one of those rare, rare novels of ideas that is also character-driven, and the people of this book are warm-blooded and quirky; they do not stand for ideologies, and this is no morality play.
This is speculative fiction that makes you feel, not just think: Will Meyer and Bina reunite?
What did it feel like to be blessed by Mendel Shpliman, to play chess with him?And of course Chabon's book makes you think.
The Yiddish Policeman's Union is about horrible things done to and by Jews, to and by people all over the world.
This would make my short list for the most overwritten novel I’ve ever read.
It reminded me in ways of Jonathon Safran Foer’s last book, which is essentially a small-canvassed novel about the breakup of a marriage but given monumental import by inventing an apocalyptic war in Israel as a backdrop.
Maybe though that’s clever as all good storytelling is essentially about raising expectation.
Again maybe this is clever as the novel has at its heart on the one hand an existence of thrift and on the other a belief in transfiguration symbolised by a Messiah character.
It’s also about a murder and I’m guessing pastiches or high fives famous noir writers like Chandler and Hammett.
Oy vey!Michael Chabon’s 2007 novel is about as original an alternative history as can be imagined: Israel collapsed in 1948 and a section of Alaska has been set aside for an extended Jewish territory.
Within this setup, Chabon then goes on to tell a fun whodunit.Meshuganah!Like the best of Tom Wolfe’s writing, Chabon’s descriptive language and inventive style sets this apart from other alternate history books about Jews in Alaska.
Chabon’s mastery of the narrative style, blending crime noir with Jewish cultural and sociological allusions, and also throwing in enough of the Native American Alaskan references to be freaky, this was a fun schlep.While there is plenty of Woody Allenesque kvetshing to please the stereotypical sensibilities, Chabon’s dialogue and characterization are first rate.
When I think of The Yiddish Policemen's Union, I can picture a complacent Chabon frequently patting his own back while writing this book.
If he can come up with three ornamental ways to portray one thing, he includes all three of them in the book.
Honestly, I enjoyed reading this a lot (apart from slightly OD-ing on the bejeweled descriptions, that is).
The dialogue is crisp and snappy.And the characters!
It is almost as if each character has been given a role card which they are determined to follow till they are six feet under.
My paternal grandmother was fluent in Yiddish, and whenever I see my parents they talk incessantly about Israeli politics.
I even knew the chess problem in question, and had read Nabokov's explanation in Speak, Memory of his thought processes as he constructed it.
So how would it be possible for me not to love this book?
But my reasons for loving it are sufficiently unusual that I won't try to convince anyone else that they're necessarily going to feel the same way.
Me and The Yiddish Policeman's Union just happen to be made for each other, and we're very happy together.
But when word comes down from on high that the case is to be dropped immediately, Landsman soon finds himself contending with all the powerful forces of faith, obsession, hopefulness, evil, and salvation that are his heritage—and with the unfinished business of his marriage to Bina Gelbfish, the one person who understands his darkest fears.At once a gripping whodunit, a love story, an homage to 1940s noir, and an exploration of the mysteries of exile and redemption, The Yiddish Policemen's Union is a novel only Michael Chabon could have written.My Review: A small, overlooked historical tidbit...very real and true...gives rise to a what-if novel of huge impact and fascination.
I felt fascinated by Chabon's exploration of this alternate history because it was never done "historically" but rather through the lives of the characters, their intertwined existences depended on *this particu;lar world* coming into being.
Many years ago, after I'd finished off The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, one of my all-time favourites, I decided to follow up on my personal Chabon binge with The Yiddish Policeman's Union.
Luckily, it turned out to be a very rewarding experience!The Yiddish Policeman's Union is a major departure from The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay in that it is a detective story set in an alternate timeline where the Jewish populace settled in Sitka, Alaska rather than Israel following WWII.
At the beginning of Chabon's novel, their lease on this land is about to expire, signs of the messiah's imminent arrival are accumulating, and a dead man has inconveniently turned up in the fleabag hotel of broken down detective Meyer Landsman.
Despite the intriguing premise, it took me quite some time to get into this novel.
Perhaps this is all very literary, but quirks like these repeatedly took me out of the story.Despite those problems, I did enjoy this novel in a detached sort of way.
Simply because of the writing style, they'll have to take some liberties with the book, and i'm curious if they'll take the opportunity to erase or cover up this critical slant on zionism, with its obvious implications in the real, and really crazy, world we do live in today.At the same time, Chabon's use of Alaska as a location for his alternate-world Jewish Pale is a useful reminder that the question of settlerism is neither specific to Jews nor to the Middle East.
In addition to it not being science fiction, I’m surprised it won the Hugo because it’s really not that good.
I liked that Chabon implemented Yiddish into the telling of the story.
I figured out that the present tense was used when the story was focusing on Landsman and what he was doing.
There were a few times when Chabon would be telling about something that happened to Landsman in past tense then pick up on the present and switch to present tense.
For me, “The Yiddish Policemen’s Union” was a book that had a heck of a lot of potential and a lot of great ideas.
Nothing life-changing, but smart, fast, and chock full of quirky characters.
And then the characters' hardships begin.
See, Chabon seems to have done the same thing all over again: taken an interesting, original concept and then populated it with contrived, formulaic plot lines and tired characters.
I couldn't get enough of an investment in these characters to actually care where the plot was going.
There are some interesting scenes and it's obvious Chabon is well-educated in the areas of Jewish ritual and history.
I know Chabon had nothing to do with this design, but it's pretty bad.
1. Chess2. Police investigations3. Judaism (Yiddish, red cows, those little hats)4. AlaskaI don’t know much about any of these topics. And honestly, only the last one piques my interest. Which meant from page one, it was going to be an uphill battle for Chabon. And he lost the battle. I mean he was slaughtered on that hill. Now that I have finished the book, I have negative interest in items 1 to 3. I am still curious about Alaska. Yet once it was used in the set-up, the cold tundra was tossed a
Which meant from page one, it was going to be an uphill battle for Chabon.
Now that I have finished the book, I have negative interest in items 1 to 3.
To his credit, Chabon put up a good fight.
I can understand how he won a Pulitzer Prize for his other book.
Chabon is a good writer.
He has a way with words, understands people, and set up a truly brooding mood.
(If you are wondering why I read this book in the first place, there weren’t many options at the library that day.) But isn’t it an author’s job to make the topic interesting?
This is a book that I didn't want to read.
This affront to Science Fiction could not stand!Imagine my surprise, then, when within the first 50 pages I was so deeply sucked in that I almost missed my connecting flight.
Still, it's not Science Fiction.Imagine, if you will, a world where Israel has yet to be established.
Chabon mixes just the right blend of tradition, corruption, history and the eccentricities of a people who, reviled for no good reason throughout the world, have turned so insular and secretive that they no longer know themselves.
However, they did not arrive in the years around WW2 and in Fairbanks they actively voiced a no-go to the petition from European Jews to settle in Alaska, deeming the many poor people “unfit to fit into society without being a burden”.This is a what-if-history-had-been-different?If so, it might very well have turned out like Michael Chabon describes it.
Heavily laden with Jewish symbolism, it is not just a book about a murder case, it is also a book about what happens when a group of people follow their dreams to the extreme.3½ stars for storyline, 4 stars for the idea.
An alternate history about the US resettling European Jews to Alaska to escape the Holocaust, in a world in which Germany defeated the Soviet Union, Berlin was destroyed by nuclear weapons in 1946, and Israel was destroyed in 1948 in a different version of the Arab-Israeli War. Michael Chabon uses this setting for a hard-boiled detective noir story inspired by the works of Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, and Ross Macdonald, and adds the most colorful, ironic, and over-the-top narrative voice I’ve read in years.
Strip out the colorful, larger-than-life character descriptions and alternate history backdrop, and the noir mystery isn’t really that memorable.
'In my experience, Detective Landsman, if I may,' the doctor concludes his own jag, 'the people who worry about losing their edge, often they fail to see they already lost the blade a long time ago.'Written after reading: It occurred to me this morning as I sat curled up at the bottom of the bath and the shower kept me company, both of us weeping copious tears, most of my brain wondering about the the sorts of things I dare say everybody does who is in hell and doesn't understand why; it occurred to me that one little bit of my brain, not engaged in these rather futile activities, still wanted to do this book justice and had I?
The slog of police union politics conducted in Yiddish, a hint of inter-police union rivalry, the ribald camaraderie shared over the mid shift bagel break.Ah, how that book lived for me and was so vital and entertaining right up until I got home and started to read it.I loved the details of the Jewish settlement in Alaska setting, the ritual reinterpretation to create outside areas that were part of the home so as not to breach the Sabbath, the yiddishisms, the awkward interrelationships with the indigenous population, the chess club and so on but the messiah plot never engaged me.
Just starting, been wanting to read this for a long time.

Now add to that a noir crime yarn set in this fictional state.
This is a very slow-moving detective yarn, so slow in fact that I contemplated not finishing it.
He takes extreme joy in the noir patois, and that is one of the things that is fun and worthwhile about the book.
In a strange way I was reminded of Thomas Hardy, in that I love Hardy’s use of language more than his plotting, and that is the case here as well.
But the fun-with-language aspect keeps it afloat long enough for the plot to kick in.
I wanted to be a good reader, I wanted to give it a good chance and not pick nits because it wasn't written by an Alaskan. But I just. couldn't. trudge. through the prose. So, yet again, I feel out of step with everyone I know, who all loved the book and demanded I read it. Sigh.
The corpse with the extra hole in his head may turn out to be the least of Detective Meyer Landsman's problems.
"He feels like he suffers from tinnitus of the soul."  See what I mean?
They chop at Landsman, stab him with their toes, grunt and mutter.
They masticate the fiber of their dreams.
It's the worst night that Landsman has ever spent on a mattress, and that is saying a good deal."Say it with me now..."They masticate the fiber of their dreams."I'm pretty sure I'd sell my soul to be able to write like this guy.
Strange Times to be a JewSo the yid is a shammes named Meyer Landsman. He lives and works in an alternative history version of Alaska, the Federal District of Sitka, to be precise. The city of Sitka is home to 3.2 million inhabitants, most of whom are Jews (or descendents of Jews), “the Frozen Chosen”, who fled the collapsed state of Israel after it lost the Arab-Israeli War in 1948. Like Hong Kong in 1997, Sitka is reverting to the control of the State of Alaska on 1 January, 2007: “Nothing is
However, it soon becomes apparent that he was the prodigal son of a rebbe, who some thought was the Tzaddick Ha-Dor (a Messiah born into every generation, who could return the Jews to Jerusalem and the promised land [“the camel lands”]).The murder is described as a “crime committed against a man who found himself left with no good moves at all,” in chess terms, a “Zugzwang”.Reversionary TacticsChabon uses the imminence of the Reversion to establish an urgent timeframe within which to solve the murder mystery - after the Reversion, all of the Jewish nozzes will be replaced by Americans, so both Landsman and Bina will be out of a job and powerless to solve the crime:
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
I was all cosy, curled into the wall, book in one hand, fork in the other, pint of beer waiting, delectable in front of me… it was a perfect moment… Then I started to read and the magic that had captivated me beforehand just wasn’t there any more.
Little happens in this people’s history from World War II to the present, other than a pathetic World’s Fair that now only retains the constant reminder of the reaching stone structure known as the Safety Pin. Sitka is not a happy place for anyone, as they dream of Zion and their return to their true home.Landsman is our main character, a policeman who’s been in the service for many years but has little to show for it, apart from a trashed hotel room, a failed marriage, a dead sister, and his own depression over the state of his life.
The niftiest thing about The Yiddish Policemen's Union for me, though, is its background, the world in which it's set: a plausible but entirely bizarre alternate universe originating from one tiny, obscure but significant change, in the best tradition of such parallel worlds.
In Chabon's alternity, Dimond was killed in a car accident before he could dissuade Roosevelt, and the District of Sitka was formally established in 1941.
and the answers Sitka's residents have come up with range from Madagascar to, of course, the ever-populous nation of Denial.
Then, all the religious Messiah talk and political/conspiracy vernacular: the red heifer (necessary for the Messiah to return); a paramilitary group who wants to build a new Temple in Jerusalem after destroying the "Dome of the Rock" in order to speed the birth of the Messiah; an evangelical Christian Zionist American government; the victim Mendel Shpilman, the son of the Verbover rebbe, Sitka’s most powerful organized crime boss; the belief that Mendel (he had healing powers) was the Tzadik ha-Dor (the potential messiah, born once in every generation).Conclusions.
Aside from my appreciation for Chabon's characterization in Landsmen as a noir-detective, Berko as the Tinglit-turned-Yiddish partner, and the strong female in Bina, I hated it.
That was the whole basis of this book; Michael Chabon’s idea came from a book he found called 'Say It in Yiddish' which had sayings that he would never have a chance to use because Yiddish isn't the primary language of any country.
The idea was Israel lost the 1948 war; the Jews established a Jewish state in Alaska.The Yiddish Policemen’s Union is an interesting blend of Michael Chabon's heritage with a love of old mystery novels.
But while the noir stylings of this book are good this book also has a satirical nature about it, with a comic look at the Yiddish language and Jewish culture.
