https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760210.Moccasin_Trail
(I'm reading all the Newbery Honor books from the year Charlotte's Web got the Honor, to see if any of them are any good.)I can see why this got the honor, or was at least up for discussion; it's deeper than most "captive" narratives (the main character wasn't a captive in this case, but lived in a similar situation), an interesting story, well-written, although it goes on too long in the middle.
This book changed my life.
I am a writer, I believe, because of this book.
It is a perfect story for a young reader who is wondering who they are and where they're going.
I often wonder, if I hadn't read this book, would I have ended up in Oregon?
The novel comes to Oregon, where Jim, who was captured and raised by Indians, reunites with his long lost family.
It is a wonderful tale that goes way beyond the usual rite-of-passage genre.
It is the kind of story that I always want to write.
I admit this book made me cringe over the attitudes towards Indians.
However, Jim always felt unsettled with his Indian family.
As an adult, when he left to rejoin his biological family, he felt even more out of place.
To be fair to the author, she does depict the love and care the Crows gave Jim, and she does have the biological family overcome their initial rejection of Jim's Indian ways and accept him as he is.The story is a product of its time and should be accepted as such.
It's not a story I would recommend to a child without discussion of the attitudes involved.
The boy is caught between a life of "savagery" and civilization?! Omg, how does this pass as acceptable?
Moccasin Trail encases a powerful story about the strength of family in a page turning adventure from the days of the pioneers.
Jim Keath ran away from home as a young boy and now, at the age of 19, is more Indian than white.
When he receives a letter from his younger brother pleading for help in staking a claim, Jim rejoins what is left of the family he ran away from nine long years ago and finds himself stuck between two worlds.
You will be routing for him the entire time as he transforms from a rugged, wandering loner to an equally rugged but devoted, responsible family man.
A masterfully told story.
At eleven years old, Jim Keath runs away to follow his uncle, a mountain man. A year or so later he is attacked by a bear and left for dead. The Crow indians find him and he lives with them for six years before leaving to join another mountain man to trap beaver. He gets a letter from his brother asking for his help. The book is about changing, accepting and understanding and especially about family.
This book was one of the worst books I have ever read. I rated it 1 star because:1. It was very slow.2.It was very misleading3.It was disappointing4. In some parts of the story, you didn't know what was happening.5. There was too many characters; you always got confused6. The scenes changed to quickly, one second you were at the Crow camp, the next second you are somewhere off west with your siblings.
Providentially reunited with his siblings who were orphaned on the Oregon Trail, Jim/Talks Alone makes a decision about his role in the booming West and in his family.This book generated many interesting discussions about the Native American way of life versus the pioneers, because it came at the distinction from a very unusual perspective.
Many of the pioneer characters imply that to be a Christian Jim would need to cut off his Crow braids and act like the settlers rather than like an “injun.” Super cringe.
The kids got it, but I’m glad we talked about it.In any case, Moccasin Trail was a rip-roaring adventure tale and we all enjoyed it.
Yikes, I don't know why everyone else appears to love this book.
After the litany of other Native American-era fiction I've read lately, this one didn't even compare.
Wasn't even in the same village, let alone tribe.
Ha ha, a joke.
Sure, he gets over himself, but only in the last 30 seconds of the book (it ends kind of abruptly.) I didn't like the way the characters spoke either.
It did not entirely suck because I want my own Moki wolfdog and a horse like Buckskin (though COME ON, I would totally pick a better name than that.
What a weird portrayal of Indians (feather-not-a-dot). At the beginning of the book the reader gets all noble savage, and at the end it's the white man all the way, too bad about the Indians and they were fun and all that, but it's time to put away childish things so let's not worry about them any more.I thought the struggle of Jim Keath to find his place in the world was quite interesting, though.
I feel that the story is great for boys because Jim made a mistake as a boy that he would eventually rectify as a man.
BEST BOOK EVEEER
This book sounded interesting and it was.Jim was a young boy when his uncle came to visit his family.
He talked about the fur trade in the western mountains and that got Jim interested and wanting to go home.
Then he met Tom, a fur trader and left the tribe to follow him.Then a letter came.
And Jonnie wanted Jim to come home.He wasn't quite accepted by his family and the people around him--they were white and Jim was more Indian than white.
So you will learn a bit about the fur trade and Indians if you are interested in reading the book.
Moccasin Trail by Eloise Jarvis McGraw is a book about a boy who runs away from his family in Missouri, all the way to Oregon.
The main character's name is Jim Keith, he is a boy that grew up in a white family but when he ran away to Oregon, and was attacked by a bear, an Native American tribe found him and he started to follow and go along with the Native American ways.
In 1844 his family is moving west in search of new land in Oregon.
Another big issue for Jim was trying to reconnect with his family that he hadn't seen in a long time.
I don't remember much about this except that I remember that it upset me.
The main character is a boy of European descent who was separated from his family and joined the Crow tribe of native americans.
He has to be made "white" again because his family dislikes and mistrusts him because he looks like a native american.
I didn't think he should have to give up the culture he grew up in, but he eventually does.
Would I see more nuance that I missed originally, or would I see the views of native american culture as unapologetically racist?
It is understandable why this is a Newberry Honor book -- terrific adventure, historical accuracy, and sympathetic, well-portrayed characters.
The cultural attitudes of the time are accurately portrayed as well, and while that may make a modern reader uncomfortable, it is an opportunity for discussion with young readers.
It is also important to note that not every part of every people group's culture is admirable and worthy of imitating.
We should be able to discuss critically aspects of every culture, including our own, and note what is commendable and what needs redeemed.
This book lends itself to several of those types of discussions from relational conflicts to cultural conflicts.
Jim who was left to die by a bear attack was found by the Crow nation.
He stayed, became a part of that family.
Though I understand you always want to search out your biological family and he did so.
But the way the Indigenous tribes were eventually seen as savages was awful.
he always mentioned the Crow females were squaws, but mentioned the white women by their proper names.
It was said that the white women were more beautiful then the Crow women ( again comparing women against each other) eventually it gets worse for the Indigenous nations.
"This is the story of Jim Keath, who has lived for six years as a Crow Indian.
He has learned that his two younger brothers and a sister are journeying west to take up land.
"Although Jim finds it difficult to fit in with the family he hasn't seen since childhood, and though they are wary and distrustful of him, Jim feels his duty is at their side.
But slowly, as they survive the dangerous trek west, the perils of frontier life, and the kidnapping of their younger brother, Jim and his family realize that the only way to survive is to accept each other and truly reunite the family."This book has a lot of heart.
I surprised myself by finishing this very "boyish" book in one day. It was gripping. I wanted Jim to get over himself faster than he did in the book, but I was glad that he eventually saw how selfish and lazy he had been. I'm glad the book showed both positives and negatives of the different Indian tribes. It wouldn't be accurate if it didn't talk about some tribes having slaves, or all tribes condoning stealing.
There is incredible detail in every aspect of the story and Jim’s life; in the way he thinks, the signs he tracks, his food and clothing, the culture of the Indians who raised him, his ‘medicine’ and so much more!
It’s all woven in seamlessly throughout the story and combines to paint a vivid picture of the time, place and peoples.The characters all come to life so vividly and their concerns and fears and hopes are so clear they’re almost tangible.
The story records Jim's struggle to reconcile the conflicting aspects of his tumultuous young life and find a harmonious balance between them.This certainly isn’t a book that paints the Native Americans in a peace-loving, at-one-with-nature-and-wouldn’t-harm-a-butterfly kind of idealistic way.
This was a fun read, especially since we just came from this area of Oregon.Kinda sad that at first I thought the author was ahead of his time and was showing the value of native cultures, but out slowly became more and more anti-natives. I was not a fan of the last chapter. If that could just be then out, the rest of the book was entertaining.
Read aloud with my kids for our history program. It took a while to get into and could have been shorter but there were some great character developments. My oldest (10) enjoyed it the rest said it was just ok. I think a lot went over their heads even though we talked through it.
This book is great for those who find themselves in the midst of culture shock or loving someone walking through it. That is where we were when we read this book, and it really blessed us to be able to identify with the main character.
A really great book!
Read aloud with Kate and Molly. We really enjoyed it and will miss the characters, especially Jim. Satisfying ending.
this book is about a teenager boy named Jim who thinks he is a Crow Indian after running away from his family to live with his uncle. He hears about his siblings, and tries to reunite his family.
I liked this book. This is a book that helps put my life in perspective and I could see more clearly where I am and where I want to go.
Wow. What a look at the conflicting cultures and ways of life of the Native Americans of the west and the settlers. Good story.
Used this for a read aloud. My sons have enjoyed it. The ending left me scratching my head a little bit, but overall a nice introduction to some rather deep issues.
Good indian and cowboy western mix.
