https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13068.Double_Whammy
This was the wall of the shack that leaned so precipitously, and now Decker knew why: it held the heaviest books.“What’re you staring at?” Skink demanded.“These are great books,” Decker said.“No Shit.”
Now he takes what jobs he can get and when Dennis Gault shows up offering stupid money ($50,000) to catch Dickie Lockhart cheating at a Bass Fishing Tournament, Decker is reeled in.
So some people might be like me and don’t care to read a book about Bigmouth Bass fishing.
With the last rare bird dead, the cabinet reasoned, why continue to tie up perfectly good waterfront.”Now a theme that is prevalent through all Carl Hiaasen books is the raping of the Florida environment.
If you cannot suspend disbelief for a while, you are gonna get lost in the gator swamp with this one.Everyone in a Hiaasen book is a caricature and I think that is one of the things that make them so entertaining.
I have only heard of him before as I have not read any other books with him, but I understand he is important in many of Hiaasen’s books.
I plan to continue to work my way through his books in publication order and hope to find a few more hidden gems in the swamps and on the beaches of Florida.
He has no qualms about shooting intruders, and acts very peculiar whether in public or private.Hiassen creates other humorous characters to help the story along: Lainie Gault, a sexy swimsuit model with no morals; beautiful and classy Catherine, Decker’s ex-wife, who, although remarried to an incredibly boring chiropractor, keeps in touch with Decker; Ott Pickney, Decker’s old friend and a reporter who should have retired ages ago, and Charlie Weeb (televangelist and owner of OCN) who has problems avoiding prostitutes and enjoys performing fake healings on farm animals on "live satellite television", as well as marketing his development, Lunker Lakes Resort, which is built on a contaminated landfill.
After  Stormy Weather  I decided I want to delve more into the background of Captain Skink, the most interesting character in the book, so I went back to his debut in  Double Whammy  .
Much of the fun of the novel comes from the wacky characters and the often absurd situations they get tangled in, with Skink as the main chaos inducing element ( He looked like a neon yeti.
This is officially the Hiaasen book that has proved his genius to me.
Never in my wildest imagination would I have guessed that I would not only read a book about bass fishing, but that I would also enjoy it.
This book, bass and all, was a hysterically funny who-done-it of the highest caliber.
Pro-Sports fishermen are dropping dead, a renegade photographer/PI has been hired to prove there are cheaters in the Bass Tournaments, a loveable crazy hermit turns out to be more than meets the eye.
I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a funny, well written read.
The fact that Hiaasen actually knows Florida and evidently did copious research on the subject of bass fishing just makes the details shine, though it's the characters and the twists that will really get your attention.While a bit dated now (the book was written in 1987, as you can tell by all the problems that come up that would be solved nowadays by a cell phone), it was a good read.
I've read two books by Carl Hiaasen now, and he has a gift for making Florida sound like the weirdest place on Earth and then sticking an almost-plausible plot into it.
Truth can be stranger than fiction, especially in the State of Florida.'Double Whammy' written in 1987, is the first book of several Hiaasen wrote with the character Skink.
The contact, a newspaper owner, Ott Pickney, refers him to Skink, a local Everglades guide and madman, to help him learn about bass fishing.
Waste not, want not.Dickie Lockhart, host of a well-known and popular TV fishing show, is winning largemouth bass fishing contests with huge 30-pound bass.
He knows a couple of local thugs who worship Lockhart - and violence.The Double Whammy is a popular fishing lure, reputed to be a favorite of bass.
His fiction surely flavours fact.
As an ecological champion native to Florida, he writes what he has lived.
Others are larger-than-life caricatures of the forces that be on the edge of the Everglades, ever ready to push virgin land back in the name of progress with the bulldozer.
It's hard not to warm up to Hiaasen's daft eco-Rambo, Skink, who makes his memorable debut here.
Don't be defined by one thing in life, such as a hawg largemouth bass.
If a hermit can hang onto a first edition of Marquez' Cien años de soledad, we can live a plural existence.
I love Miami. I love watching tv shows about Miami, being in Miami, and reading books about Miami. The imagery in this book takes me there. This book gets an automatic 2 stars just for that.The beginning is an introduction of one white male after another and their generic names make them hard to sort out. Then Hiaasen bravely shows the blatant racism that happens in the old boys' club of the south.The plot is solid. There is cliffhanger after cliffhanger that kept me turning pages.
The second 'on his own' book features the first appearance of 'Skink', the former mayor! The book is in the vein of the predecessor, Tourist Season, but with more of everything. Very much more of fishing, unfortunately. But that is also the only reason for the lost star. Other than that, it is just what you expect. Only more!
Another funny romp through the Everglades with, bat crazy, "Skink", the ex-Govenor of Florida. Skink is determined to help a detective who is investigating a possible bass fishing heist. The detective is unsure of this cantankerous, ill humored, homeless guy, but he seems to have some answers that may help him solve his case. Skink is one of a kind, crazy smart and possibly the most offensive character I have read about, but I love his deranged and nutty adventures. I learned a lot about bass fishing in this story, so if that's your thing, you will love this one.
This 1989 novel has all the right ingredients, and it is VERY funny. A panoply of ignorant tourists, gorgeous babes, and large-mouth bass fisherman (one VERY corrupt) must contend with a very intelligent black State Policeman and a crusading journalist in this classic Carl Hiaasen satire. If you're new to Hiaasen, this is a good book to start with. It's also "Skink's" first appearance in a Hiassen novel.
As an avid fisherman and native Floridian this was a great read! Hiaasen created one of the most memorable characters in Skink the former Gov and a whole cast that only he could put together. There are some scenes that he describes that had me crying with laughter. Anyone who likes fishing and/or Florida and/or laughing and/or fun needs to read this book. I would imagine that everyone should have a copy of Double Whammy on their shelf.
Adding to the cast are a trio of moron hillbillies, an amoral hottie who seduces Decker and helps frame him for murder, and the good Reverend Weeb, Lockhart's sponsor on the Outdoor Christian Network, whose hobbies include prostitutes, fake faith healing, and land-grabbing.It’s just as madcap as the summary sounds, with colorful heroes and villains (such as the killer who spends the final scenes of the novel with a decapitated, rotting bulldog’s head clamped on his gangrenous arm).
Certain things you'll always find in a Carl Hiaasen novel:- a likeable, down-on-his-luck hero in the mode of Jim Rockford- a semi-deranged back-to-nature type who is actually NOT as deranged as he seems- malevolent, greedy, unscrupulous bad guys, who are acting in cahoots (or are themselves) developers- a lovely, intelligent, gutsy love interest- rednecks and low-lifes, in all their dimwitted gloryDouble Whammy has them all, built upon the disarmingly slim premise of a bass-fishing tournament.
Well, this engaging novel takes aim at certain sorts of bubbas and their infatuation with big boats, big fish, and big boobs.
I'm used to more humor and less scheming by Hiaasen than is presented here. I found this less enjoyable than many of his other novels. 4 of 10 stars
Him and Skink have been friends for along time and he is about the only one that can keep Skink somewhat under control….maybe.If you have never read a Hiaasen, I would recommend starting with Sick Puppy, Lucky You or Strip Tease.( This was a movie that Demi Moore made, but the book was better than the movie.) A lot of laugh out loud moments in these books and although I will never love tournament Bass fishing, Hiaasen did make it interesting and funny in the end.
I have never read a Hiaasen novel where the characters are not larger than life, and in a very unique way amazingly real!
Mr. Hiaasen has a way of writing novels that are not overly complex, that are peopled with characters that seem too crazy to be true, and yet he brings it all together in a very satisfying way that usually teaches the reader something about the human condition, and our world.Plus, he is funny!"Double Whammy" is a fine example of these traits.Private eye R.J. Decker has a checkered past, and seems to have a present that is just as bizarre.
Rating: 4.5Listened to the Audiobook Narrated by: George WilsonSurprisingly good.Didn't know the author, just saw the book on a Daily Deal, and it contained elements of bass fishing (an interest of mine).The story ended up not being about the bass fishing itself for most parts, but simply using it as a stage for the actual story line.I think even if you know nothing or care nothing for fishing, you can still enjoy this book.He has some awesome characters.
Although this was noticeable, it doesn't really change my opinion about the narrator or the book.
This one was a little less enjoyable for me because I couldn't build any interest up in the bass-fishing aspect of the novel.One of my favorite characters, Skink, kept me interested as well the detective-noir aspect.
This is the novel which introduces Skink, who subsequently appears in several other Hiaasen novels.The main character, Decker, is your classic P.I. with a questionable history; and in steps the femme fatale, who will either aid in his designated quest or help lead him into a deadly situation.Added to the mix are the crooks/bad guys who wheel and deal to over-develop Hiassen's beloved Florida and several rednecks and lowlife types.
This novel is full of this, which made it entertaining, even though the main subject of the investigation held little interest for me.
I have been a fan of Carl Hiaasen since his first, Tourist Season. Before we were married, my wife heard him talk at a Journalism convention and Tourist Season had just come out. She bought it and we both read it. I read Double Whammy on our honeymoon. Excellent book. His books always make me laugh out loud (no small feat). Later my wife sent the book off to Carl Hiaasen and surprised me for my birthday. When I opened the cover I found written "To Lance, Best wishes from Florida! Carl Hiaasen 12-94. P.S. Skink lives!" Long live Skink!
This was my first book by Hiaasen and I wasn't disappointed...great, quirky characters and a borderline insane plot with plenty of laugh out loud moments. At his best, he compares to Joe Lansdale which I consider a huge compliment to Hiaasen. I definitely will be reading more.
I don't give 5 stars lightly, but this was really a masterpiece.
The main character, Decker, is great, a tough-guy photographer with a soft spot for his ex wife, but I feel the real star of the show was Skink the hermit, who has a mysterious past and is an unlikely crusader for a worthy cause.
I have a feeling this is a book I will enjoy reading again and again.
This is the second Hiassen book I've read, and so far I'm thoroughly impressed.
I would give this book 10 stars if I could.
OK. This is classic Hiaasen...or maybe even better than classic Hiassen. It's got everything: crooked bass fishermen, honest bass fishermen, a crazy preacher complete with his own mega-church, cable network, and largest bass tournament ever, dumb rednecks, smart rednecks, vicious rednecks, good rednecks, good cops, bad cops, and, if that weren't enough, there's even the kitchen sink. (Actually it's a bathroom sink, but why split hairs?)If you are a bass fisherman, know a bass fisherman, or ever wondered about bass fishermen, then you must read this. Even if you haven't, you still need to read it!
It doesn't get any better than this!!! Double Whammy ranks right up with favorites from Dan Jenkins. If you haven't read any Carl Hiaasen, you had better start. You owe it to yourself!
Carl Hiaasen is always funny, outlandish and over the top. Laugh-out-loud lines in this book. His environmentalism/liberalism biases can be a bit overbearing at times, but it's well worth the read.
Nobody is safe from this chaotic form of storytelling and that’s the way Carl Hiaasen likes it.One thing I will always love about Mr. Hiaasen’s books is how reliable he is when it comes to delivering the goods.
If this already sounds like a wonderfully-written profile to you, you’re in luck, because Skink is a recurring character throughout most of Carl Hiaasen’s catalogue.And of course, wherever there’s Skink, black highway patrolman Jim Tile isn’t far behind.
If black readers ever need a hero to look up to, they can always rely on Jim Tile to be their role model.Thank you, Carl Hiaasen, for bringing me another fantastic crime novel and thank you for being a constant influence on my own writing.
I have a few favourite authors - Martin O'Brien, Lee Child, and Tim Weaver to name three.
Skink, the half-blind and half-mad hermit with a taste for roadkill and a showercap on his head who just happens to be an ex-Governor of the State.
The Reverend Weeb, a TV evangelist with a liking for women dressed only in fishermen's waders.
Jim Tile, a black State Trooper and good friends with Skink.
And the rednecks.....The story is about cheating in bass fishing tournaments and the Reverend Weeb's plan to build a Christian development of town houses.
In Tourist Season that happened with reporter Brian Keyes and in Double Whammy it happened again with photographer R.J. Decker, known affectionately by his ex wife as Rage, with good reason.
I have read most of Hiaasen's books and just recently found the first two in his environmental mystery genre, Tourist Season published in 1986 and in this novel published a year later.
In Double Whammy we meet Skink, certainly one of the oddest and yet endearing protagonist that ever held murder in his heart for those that would trash the environment.
Thank god for authors like Hiaasen who care both for the prose of a good novel and the earth we live on.
Carl never disappoints. As "Bad Monkey" is aka "Yancy - Part 1" and "Razor Girl" is aka "Yancy - Part 2" then "Double Whammy" should be "Pre-Yancy". Yancy is not part of the cast in this book but several favorites from the other books do get their start here. Nice to learn more of their back story.
