https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14289.Coin_Locker_Babies
It wasn’t the Murakami that writes all the really cool stuff like The Wind Up Chronicle (by the way, I read a review of that one on Goodreads and it cracked me up, it was by this English guy called Paul Bryant, you have to read it.) So anyway I guess these Murakami novelists must get mistaken for each other all the time until the point where at swish dinner parties they just take credit for everything – IQ84 – yeah that’s mine, Coin Locker Babies, mine too, they’re all mine, shut up I am the God damn greatest.
I already knew that Ryu Murakami likes to delve into areas that most readers would find uncomfortable, but Coin Locker Babies leaps head first into a socio-psychological pool of toxics that will probably send most readers running for the relative safety of Fifty Shades of Gray.
I found it to be a surreal mixture of horror, social commentary and dark comedy that never let up and kept me dubiously entertained until the very bizarre end.The plot involves two boys in an orphanage that were abandoned as infants and found in bus station coin lockers.
My pimp wasn't a music producer gorging on fat to stifle his homosexual sex drive so he could get down to the business of knowing what will SELL SELL SELL, but a pimp dog (named "Pimp Pup. That's right.
I used to "visit" Ryu Murakami's books back when my town had actual bookstores that weren't dropping off like the dead flies with the faces of Hashi's potential murder victims.
You know how your own voice doesn't sound like your own when you hear a recording of yourself?
A mentally exhausting but still addictive book about two adopted siblings, Hashi and Kiku, who share the bond of abandonment - rescued from coin lockers on the same day as infants.
No matter how you feel about it, it is impossible to forget.Coin Locker Babies can be a deceptively time-consuming novel.
It's only about 400 pages, yet it feels like you are living through these characters' lives along with them and in real-time.
While it's a great book, there are a lot of bizarre scenes (which get darker and higher levels of weird as the book goes on) which feel like padding.Hashi and Kiku are believable but...
I'm guessing a lot of people wouldn't make it past the first sentence of Ryu Murakami's novel "Coin Locker Babies." On the other hand, it serves as a sort of litmus test: if you can get past that sentence, you can get through the rest of it.
It's the story of Kiku and Hashi.
Kiku ends up in jail, Hashi goes crazy.
Murakami doesn't blink when a character sticks a knife into his pregnant wife's protruding belly.
No review necessary- this is great and you should read if you like this guy's writing.
Well.......no rating because I only read 300 of the 400 pages.
There was nothing particularly horrible about it, but it was taking me too much time to read and it's overdue, collecting fines.
Every now and then it would strike a certain theme or comment on something particularly profound.
So this experience hasn't taken out any creditability on Murakami #2 which I'm glad about because I don't want my time with Ryu to be over.That being said, this book is a tough read.
If not, then I'm not ready to shove this book into your hands and send you on your way.
Stories don't come more messed up than this one.
The future that Murakami has created here is bizarre, Toxicity is one messed up place, you gotta read the book to fully grasp how mad it is.
If you have watched one of those bizarre Asian films, Audition (based a Murakami book), Gozu or Tokyo Gore Police then that will give you an idea of the tone of this book.
I have enjoyed reading this even though at times it did feel a tad long winded.
Still you gotta read this book!
If you're feeling brave then Ryū Murakami is well worth reading.
4.5/5.There are currently no words to sum up how I feel about this.
After I had heard that Ryu Murakami had written a book about new-born babies abandoned in train station coin lockers, I began researching where these artists may have got their inspiration from.There is an urban myth in Japan, that a mother abandons her new-born in a coin locker in a crowded Tokyo train station.
However, my desire to know how it would end kept me reading.Like many Japanese authors - Haruki Murakami a good example - the characters in Coin Locker Babies are apathetic to their surroundings.
DATURA.If you were thinking about reading this book, don't bother.
This is quite simply one of the most pointless, irrelevant, and disheartening books I've read.
There's little to captivate or move the reader, in fact, I found myself only mildly disgusted and apathetic during my reading.Kiku and Hashi are found abandoned in coin lockers as infants.
Hashi, somewhat more interesting than his brother, becomes a singer/prostitute and pursues a music career.
Kiku and Hashi lead dirty, aimless lives.
Why should a gorgeous, interesting, and eccentric woman like Anemone want a boring, selfish dud like Kiku?
I've read worse, but I finished THOSE books.
Мисля, че самият Рю Мураками би се учудил за това, че романът е определян като тежък и мрачен.
Все пак той е написал една книга за чудото на живота, за това, че не трябва да се предаваме пред трудностите.
Написал я е по онзи, особен за нас "не-японците" начин, но е силна история.
И ще е разказна по онзи начин, по който разказват японците - без милост и с обстоятелства, които често за нас са немислими.
В момента, в който ги приемеш и се потопиш в тях, остава само страхотния стил и език на Мураками и жестокото му присъствие, което на моменти усещаш като физически реално.Ами хареса ми, искам още.
But he escapes and goes to the Garagi Island to search for a substance call “DATURA,” which he would use to destroy Tokyo.Hashi becomes a bisexual singer and rises to stardom on the heel of Kiku’s killing his mother.
He kills his pregnant wife and journeys into a surreal world, and he couldn’t escape the nightmare.In Coin Locker Babies, Ryu Murakami ventures into the fringes of society.
Still, whatever happens, Murakami makes his point and the reader will recall Toxitown’s landscape, the crocodile’s death in the highway, Kiku shooting his mother on live TV, Hashi stabbing his wife in the shower, and all the while D, the producer, looking to sell more and more of Hashi’s records.
Coin Locker Babies is a combination of all Ryu Murakami works.
Ryu Murakami is compared to Bret Easton Eliis, while almost transparent blue is Japanese Less than Zero (ATB was released ten years prior to LTZ), Coin Locker Babies is what American Psycho is to BEE.
To me, the famous Murakami is the other Murakami.By the end of the first sentence you'd know what sort of book this might turn out to be, if you can't stomach the first sentence then you should definitely skip this one.
Esperava que tivesse talvez algo em comum com ele, mas, na verdade, Ryu Murakami tem um estilo muito distinto, apesar de também inserir o surreal na realidade.Duas mães abandonam os seus filhos bebés em cacifos da mesma estação de comboios.
Kiku e Hashi conhecem-se no orfanato, descobrem a sua história em comum, tornam-se amigos e crescem juntos, como irmãos.
No entanto, e apesar de serem adoptados juntos, os seus caminhos seguem direcções muito diferentes.
Apesar de estas serem as personagens principais, a minha preferida é Anemone, que tem um crocodilo gigante de estimação.Esta é uma história sobre abandono, vingança e vidas que atraem consequências catastróficas.
Perhaps.Other bits:"The truth was, he needed Hashi as much as Hashi needed him, the way a healthy person sometimes needs a disease, imaginary though it may be, as a kind of retreat, a safe haven from the problems of the real world.""Kiku suddenly wanted to scream, to turn himself into a huge jet plane and bomb the hell out of the bugs, the leaves, this window, Kuwayama's machine, the lighthouse.""the bike collapsed with a rusty squeal, like a pig having a spike driven into its head,"Funny (we are the useless screaming audience):"For some reason, their uncaring eyes made Kiku furious, and in an instant he had left Hashi, decked the emcee with one punch, and was kicking the woman in the stomach.
Modern edebiyatının bence en dişli kitaplarından birini yazmış Ryu. Kitabı almadan önce Oliver Stone'un kitabın ön kısmına konulmuş olan "Olağanüstü yetenekli bir yazar.
Hepsini içinde barındırıyor." yazısı bana çok iddialı gelmişti.
Hatta daha fazlasını da içinde barındırıyor.
Haruki Murakami'nin bu kadar popülerken, Ryu Murakami'nin daha çok sevilmemesine şok geçiriyorum şuan.
Kat be kat daha fazla içine çeken, insanı yormayan mis gibi bir kitap bu.
Ryu Murakami, Japonya'nın bir ayağı Avrupa'da diğer ayağı Amerika'da olan yazarı olmuş bence.
Çok güçlü, çok görsel bir kitap bu.
Onu da bir kenara bırakacak olursak; anlatım tarzı, alt metinler, imgeler, hayal gücü her şey çok benziyor.
Трудно ми е да си представя друг автор, освен японец, който може да напише подобна книга.
Кику и Хаши са се настанили в съзнанието ми като две зверчета, които продължават да сеят разруха, въпреки опитите ми да ги преместя, за да направя място за следващата книга.
Ето колко е силен този Рю Мураками.
Да, тази книга е като съновидение от друг свят, като силна отрова, поразяваща тяло и съзнание, опияняваща като литър силен алкохол, излят за секунда в гърлото.
Реалността е различна навсякъде по света, но чудовищната реалност на Рю Мураками не попада в скалата на нищо човешко.
Тази книга е зла на фона на човешките норми и великолепна, ако говорим за въздействие.

In "Coin Locker Babies," he writes a fictional account of what that world would ultimately look like.
"Coin Locker Babies" is one of those novels that is genuinely subversive, which is a shame because you can't use that word anymore without sounding pretentious.
It concerns the lives of two boys who were found abandoned in adjoining coin lockers, and how they go about making sense of the world they've unwillingly inherited - one by becoming a gay pop star, the other by becoming a champion pole vaulter who teams up with a japanese model to destroy all life on earth.
Това довежда до изкривявания на съзнанието и потресаващи опити за самоидентификация.Две момчета по чудо оцелели, след като са оставени да умрат при раждането си в гаровите сейфчета, не могат да се преборят със системата и да открият себе си.Кику, комуто всичко се отдава с лекота постоянно бяга и търси несъществуваща пролука в тази система, като нихилистичните му стремежи, преминават от убийството на собствената му майка и стигат до унищожението на цяло Токио.
Има доста добре разгърнати второстепенни герои, чиито съдби също една след друга ни набиват, бавно и до натъртване авторските идеи.В перфектно изграденото японско общество, човек губи идентичността си.
I wrote a WHOLE REVIEW For this book and now it is gone?
And then BAM, I am in your head, and in this book and you have never read anything like this!
It was going to cause everyone to just only read this review for the rest of their lives and ignore their family and loved ones and even basic hygiene and their health until they are found just in their chair, dead, and gross, with a giant grin on their face!
So one is this tough guy and his brother is this singer, sort of Mick Jagger meets David Bowie.
Мислех, че тъй като засяга една много важна тема, тази книга по време на четенето ще ме опровергае и ще ме накара да се преклоня пред таланта на японците, хвален и прехвалван по цял свят, заради техните литературни постижения.
Стига ми!Безсмислието на някои фактори в темата, самата безцелност на някои описания в повествованието и тоталната безнадеждност, която лъха от страниците са капката, която прелива чашата и трябват много услия от страна на читателя, а и определена нагласа, за да бъде книгата довършена.Аз лично я довърших на инат.
Инат и твърд оптимизъм, че някъде около края, тази книга може да добие друга форма и облик.
There was a lot happening here.
A lot.
Hookers, teenage hustlers, run-of-the-mill drugs, weird sex, a pet alligator, more weird sex, self-mutilation, addiction, experimental top secret drugs, clunky POV shifts, insanity, anarchy, a rock star whose voice causes nausea, and some more sex.
Then some stuff happens to Tokyo and somebody has an epiphany.
The end.It read a lot, in fact, like an earlier, more convoluted iteration of Popular Hits of the Showa Era, though the nihilism was less cheerful and the humor mostly absent.
As was the epiphany, which is part of the reason why Popular Hits is the superior of the two.So yeah.
I am surprised I managed to like it.
This one blew my mind. (view spoiler)[Not the way Kiku's mother had her mind blown, of course (hide spoiler)] ... An intriguing plot with some insane twists and a striking exposition results in a shocking yet fascinating novel which is Coin Locker Babies. If you have the guts, have a taste of the bizarre and read this book.
When the book starts with words "the woman started sucking baby's penis and it was smaller than cigarettes that she was smoking..." you know that this is a fucked up story. I wasn't able to finish it because it was too weird even for me, although it was weirdly enjoyable...
Hashi ṣi Kiku sunt doi copii care, nou-născuṭi fiind, au fost părăsiṭi de mamele lor în boxele de bagaje ale unei gări.
Se găsesc, iar din momentul ăsta tot trecutul lor va veni ca un taifun peste ei.Am schiṭat cât se poate de simplu ce se întâmplă în roman, fără prea multe detalii pentru că nu vreau să deconspir nimic, deṣi, nu prea pot să îmi dau seama cum aṣ putea să fac acest lucru, chiar de mi-aṣ dori, întrucât romanul este exact ca un labirint, un labirint în care firul Ariadnei sunt paginile pe care le dai.
Ryu Murakami, Coin Locker Babies (Kodansha, 1995)For thirty years, Japan has waited for someone to step up and fill the rather sizable shoes left by Yukio Mishima when he committed suicide after a failed attempt at a coup d'etat.
His writing is gorgeous, if somewhat less spare than Mishima's, and infused with a constant stream of gallows humor broken only temporarily by the wordless, wailing pain that underlies every page.The various blurbs on the back of Coin Locker Babies (half from writers, half from filmmakers) praise Murakami as a Renaissance man for the new age, half cyberpunk and half manga, a mirror in which all of society can be seen.
An angry, postmodern existentialist tale told with such detailed descriptive power, Ryū Murakami has crafted an utterly compelling novel about two adopted brothers, both abandoned in coin lockers, and their mentally and physically destructive upbringing into young adults.
Murakami has us strolling through the narrative with a weird set of characters: An oddball music producer and manager of Hashi, Hashi's all-gay touring band, a sweet model who has a pet crocodile, an array of pimps, thugs, lowlifes and prostitutes in an abandoned, cordoned off area in Tokyo, hilarious prison inmates of Kiku and so many others.
Though quite elderly, her hair was dyed, and she wore dark eyeliner and bright red lipstick that filled the deep wrinkles around her mouth."Hot, isn’t it?" she said to Kazuyo."And terribly sticky, " answered Kazuyo pleasantly as the old woman spat in her mop bucket."Hey, by the way, you two find anything weird in you toilet?" she asked suddenly.
Rubbers you expect, but this is getting ridiculous."The elevator had reached the fifth floor, but when Kazuyo and Kiku got off, the woman left her bucket and mop and followed them."Good night, then - we’re pretty tired, " said Kazuyo, trying to slip into the room, but she grabbed her arm."I’m finding these big wads of pubic hair - must be shaving down there.
