https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/685.The_Natural
I have seen the movie version of this book in which Robert Redford's character hits a game winning homer to clinch the pennant, shattering lights, creating his own fireworks, with memorable music in the background.
Yet, in Chicago, a disturbed woman obsessed with striking down star athletes guns down Hobbs in her hotel room, and he disappears from organized baseball.
The rest of the book includes Hobbs' internal battle as to which life course to follow and which woman he would rather be with, as much as his quest to give Pop Fisher the pennant and allow both men to end their careers on a positive note.
A perfect read for baseball season, 3.6 stars.
Important book on baseball, rife with fun clichés (essential to our nation nonetheless...?). A cool view from the top of that profession, with social drama going by at a largely brisk pace. I am not compelled to see the film, though...
A reader who begins The Natural by Bernard Malamud after having enjoyed the wonderful 1984 film starring Robert Redford and Glenn Close will be disappointed.
Like many books and films based upon the book, the two media are vastly different.
3 and Bladerunner, two similar stories but essentially different and made so by the necessary distinctions of the enabling forum.
First of all, Malamud’s vision is far darker than the Barry Levinson film and the book’s Roy Hobbs is not at all the same character as the one Redford portrays.
The Roy Hobbs from the book is more complex, as is the book itself.
For the better part of the last hundred years, baseball has meant America.
The Natural is about baseball, thus The Natural is about America.
The American dream of working hard and making something of yourself is encapsulated herein.
The protagonist, Roy Hobbs is a young baseball prospect with the world ahead of him.
Malamud uses a train metaphor to show Hobbs' "inevitable" path to glory.
That is a more realistic version of the dream.
Obviously there is a good deal of baseball-talk, so I'm not sure I'd recommend this to everyone.
Malamud put together a pretty good story.
One of the most over-rated novels in all of American Literature. Malamud cannot write. Or he writes like a 13-year-old boy would write. It baffles me -- baffles me! -- why this book is considered a classic and why on earth we would teach it to high school students. It must be because it's about baseball. Big farkin' deal. Do yourself a favor -- skip the book and watch the movie. Redford is excellent in the film and gives the story more depth than the author ever could.
E molti parlano di demolizione del Sogno Americano, quello per cui, se sei bravo e ce la metti tutta, l’America ti dà un’opportunità e poi un’altra e prima o poi ce la fai.
Non funziona così perche Malamud ha una visione tetra prima che pessimistica dell’uomo in generale e della sua traiettoria di vita, ovunque si svolga: in uno shtetl o a Brooklyn, in una bottega o nella stadio più importante del mondo.
Parla di “gente che nella vita, per una ragione o per l’altra, viaggia sempre sugli stessi binari e non ottiene mai quello che vuole, qualunque cosa sia”.Ci sono pagine e figure belle per davvero in questo romanzo: il giudice e in particolare il primo incontro di Roy con lui, per esempio.
It seems like Roy Hobbs will be a fantastic pitcher, able to strike out batters without their even seeing the ball.
Roy Hobbs' career as a baseball player is shut down before it really gets started.
He ignores the wonderful woman who is right under his nose, and goes for one who is simply wrong for him.Unlike his stories about Jewish life, here Bernard Malamud portrays a slice of middle America.
The book portrays the baseball players, the club owner, the reporter, and the bookie with realism.
I can't believe how many low star ratings this book has from Goodreads members; reading them after the fact came as a bit of a jolt, because I found the book suspenseful, artistic, beautifully surreal, and funny.The book begins in medias res with Roy Hobbs "prick[ing] a match with his thumbnail and hold[ing] the spurting flame in his cupped palm close to the lower berth window." There's a train chugging to Chicago, a tunnel, a moon, reflections in the window pane, dreamy hills, a "bone-white farmhouse with sagging skeletal porch," and a long, lonely train whistle.
From the first line, I was impressed with the film noir-ish aspect and the dark heart of this American fable (overtly about baseball, but more honestly about mythic heroes).
Spesso gli scrittori che non riescono a inventare una storia seguono altre strategie, perfino sostituendo lo stile alla narrazione.
Invece io sono convinto che la storia sia l’elemento di base della narrativa, anche se questo ideale non gode di molta popolarità tra i discepoli del nouveau roman.
Lo si capisce, in parte, dall’effetto che hanno sui bambini.Grazie alle storie i bambini capiscono che il mistero non li ucciderà.
Grazie alle storie scoprono di avere un futuro .Bernard Malamud The Natural (Il Migliore) è la prima storia di B.
Gloomy and full of sadness, yet lacking any real lessons or even a real heart.What's striking about THE NATURAL is that critics love the IDEA of the book -- a Jewish-American writer certifies his "American" identity by writing the Great American Baseball Novel.
Yet almost nobody who reads this book ever remembers any of the ball games -- or any of the characters -- or any American scenes or situations or dialogue.
It's full of shadowy sureallism and all seems to be set in some twilight world devoid of real human interest, appetites, satisfactions, and needs.Roy Hobbes is not an All-American hero in this book.
I can't believe how little Malamud apparently knew baseball.
I tried to understand this book three different ways - first, as a remarkable story set in the real world.
No, Malamud simply seems to believe what he wrote too much.
I mean, there are obviously surreal elements, but Malamud didn't make the full commitment.
Malamud just doesn't understand baseball.
Most of the book, at-bats go three pitches (leading me to think hey-maybe-it's-surreal.
Jenkins' overt, confused moralizing might like this book.
People who like those glurgy e-mails that seem to say something uplifting until you really think about it, might like this book.

I was recommended this classic by my father-in-law who recently found a collection of his work on a bookventure, and knows how much I love the game of baseball.
I grew up in a rural town, and my father passed on his love of baseball to me before I knew how to walk and talk.
I loved playing the game.
Roy Hobbs, in the eyes of Malamud, wasn't quite the fairytale character found in the movie.
I will say that I love the character was to become in the movie version.
This is one of my all-time favorite books.
I have gotten to teach it twice now, and each time I read it, I'm more and more impressed with Malamud's spot-on perspective on American heroes, the dreams we create for ourselves and how they change and diminish as we age, and the inevitable failure that we all have lurking inside of us.
Despite the fact that Roy Hobbs is an utterly frustrating character -- does he ever make the right choice?
-- it's hard to be too down on him because it's easy to see ourselves in his bad choices.
There is something so human about this book, and I adore anything that portrays humanity in all its beauty and messiness.
I would give this 3 1/2 stars. In full disclosure, I have loved the movie most of my life and I knew the book was going to be darker. And it is. And the characters are less likable. It is really interesting to see how they masterfully adapted essentially the same story and dialogue from the book into a movie with a completely different tone and a lot more heart. So, I'm glad I read it to appreciate the comparison, but in this rare case I did prefer the movie.
Bernard Malamud's first novel, published in 1952, is one of the best baseball books I've ever read, despite Roy Hobbs' being an antihero. None of the characters are likeable, from the owner to many of the fans, but the story of a hardscrabble, gifted ballplayer is hard for a seamhead (baseball fanatic) to put down.
Hm. Apparently, I do not have a shelf for this book. What sort of shelf would that be? Baseball fiction? Books That Use Baseball as an Interminable Metaphor? Books that Express Disillusionment with the American Dream? Because it definitely belongs on those shelves. But I think the shelf this book fits best on is "I Liked the Movie Better."Because the movie was awesome.
Bernard Malamud’s 1952 novel about Roy Hobbs and his time playing for the New York Knights is considered to be a classic baseball fictional story and was also adapted onto film in the 1980’s, with Robert Redford starring as Hobbs.
Bailey’s untimely demise is the reason Hobbs became a started on the Knights and he immediately tries to court Memo, whose own character flaws are revealed later.
This doesn’t sound like the typical baseball hero in a fictional story – but Roy and all the other main characters are well developed by Malamud.
It is hard to say anything about this novel without giving away pivotal events.****************************We first meet Roy Hobbs as a young prospect who is being taken by a down-on-his-luck scout to a tryout for a big league team.
But in the end, hard living, age, and temptation catch up with Roy. His body broken, he realizes that the only way he can gain the riches he needs to win the woman of his dreams is to throw an important playoff game.
Just as Roy did, those modern players tried to defy the ravages of age and biology to break records and achieve what others could not.
The introductory sequence with greenhorn Roy Hobbs on the train with the world-famous Whammer and pretty, mysterious Harriet Bird is unforgettable: evocative, inspiring and sad (those first 50 pages would have made a great short story on their own).
He demolished a large slab of chocolate cake and made a mental note for a hamburger or two before he went to bed."The bad:Malamud's writing is weirdly inconsistent, and during the parts that he fills with flowery descriptive prose, it can get so over-the-top that you want to throw up your hands and toss the damn book into the BART tracks.
*****.When I read this first novel by Malamud back in the late 1950s, I was blown away.
If you have not read any of Malamud’s works, this should be first on your list.
a natural ball player, is cut short in his career by a woman he totally mis-read, and had to defer his entry into the sport for several years.
We do get to know our ball player very well, however, and soon learn that his simple beliefs in his forms of morality are etched on his soul.
Bernard Malamud paints a much darker picture of the odyssey of Roy Hobbs.
The book takes the arc of one person's career--Roy Hobbs--and weds it to a couple grim episodes in baseball's history: Eddie Waitkus and the Black Sox. The Hobbs of the novel is wonderfully talented--but very human.
In the movie, there is a prolonged slump after Hobbs links up with Paris Memo.
The movie's uplifting ending works.
The novel's darker ending also works.
Even if you liked the movie and its view of Roy Hobbs, you will find the book gripping in its own, very different way.

I am really torn between It was OK or I liked it, so I bumped it up.
Because I think it really is a piece of classic baseball writing.
It was really told like it probably was, and the characters, although less than likeable, were ball players first, and human beings, second.
Money, fame, girls, and baseball.
Little boys, doing what they have always wanted to do.
I loved the play by play and the descriptions of pitches, and umpires, and fans.
I read this book because I have always loved the movie of the same name.
I will continue to love the movie.
He also encounters Harriet Bird who turns out to be a crazed serial killer of athletes, who nearly ends Hobbs's life in a Chicago hotel.Flash forward to Hobbs at 35, who finally makes it back to the majors landing a spot with the hapless New York Knights, their aging manager Pops, their star clown, Bump, his girlfriend Memo (where does he get these names?), the shrewd skinflint owner,Judge, the gambler, Gus, and the sportswriter, Max Mercy, who senses this is not the first time he has met Roy. Hobbs lands a spot, taking Bump's place after Bump died running into a wall chasing down a long fly ball.
I know that the author intended his book to have ties to mythology and the Arthurian legend, but, even at that, the way tries to incorporate the telling of Roy Hobbs’ story into some sort of allegory is clunky and uneven at best.
However, once Hobbs gets to the try out, the novel really ventures off here into some wild fantastical allegory.
I think the author was trying way too hard to take this whole symbolic, Arthurian legend to a new level and it just came out a rather flat, superficial story I could care less about.People label this often “the best baseball story.” I would beg to differ.
Roy has conflicts with many people, including love interests and team management, but primarily he has conflicts with himself.
He weaves into the plot several allusions to baseball stories, including the conspiracy to throw the 1919 World Series.The Natural is a sports-drama with a little humor.
It uses the themes of romance, sports, success, failure, and tragedy.
As Iris Lemon tells him, “We have two lives, Roy, the life we learn with and the life we live with after that.”I gave the book four stars because of its captivating storyline based on a sport I enjoy.
I mostly read this because I somehow had it in my mind that I was remiss in not having seen the movie starring Robert Redford, and since I like to read the book a movie is based on first, well.
I pictured Robert Redford in every scene of the book just because people talk about him anytime the book or movie comes up.
I don't know that I even need to see the movie as his performance in my head was pretty good.
Kevin Baker's introduction comments on the fact that there are no redeeming characters in this book, and that was pretty dead on.
A great novel and perhaps the greatest baseball novel of all time, The Natural is not without its flaws.
But to truly join Roy's team, we need to see a little bit of good from him to counter the crummy things he does, the poor way he treats people, and the bitter loner attitude he portrays to the world.
Roy's legendary bat Wonderboy exists as an entity of its own, its magic clearly understood by the characters but never fully acknowledged.
It was about so much more than baseball - as many baseball books are - but it was also less about baseball than I had expected, less about baseball than you think.
Baseball books seem to me, more and more, to have a special affinity for magic realism, highlighting this idea that some of the things that happen in the game are so unlikely that they can only be explained by magic.
It makes me wonder about baseball books as magic realism - to some extent they seem to have this trait often.
