https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218215.Loretta_Lynn
I know what you're thinking Loretta Lynn?Really?
Coal Miners Daughter isn't the kind of self aggrandizing, everything is perfect, I have not problems autobiographies that most famous people write.
Coal Miners Daughter isn't just the name of her hit song and bestselling autobiography but its who Loretta Lynn is at the core of her soul.
Coal Miners Daughter isn't for everyone the writing style is a little chaotic and if you're not into the Hill-Billy lifestyle it might not interest you, but I as a proud Kentuckian loved it.
read this book or i will take you to fist city.
This autobiography was a solid 4 star, (even with the chaotic writing).
I always like it when autobiographies/memoirs/biographies feel open and honest, and this one did that.
I think that is why this book felt a little chaotic.
She wanted this written in a way that would mirror her from her roots to her stardom, including having this written in her Kentucky dialect.
I know her dialect turned some people off, but it felt authentic to me so that didn't bug me.I enjoyed this and it felt like a little piece of Americana.
It's an easy read. If you're interested in the hill-billy lifestyle then this is a great book. Loretta Lynn was brought up very backwoods Kentucky and it talks about how she became a big country star. Also, she's hilarious.
The most saccharine piece of self aggrandizement I haze ever read! It's amazing someone in the business is this truly naive.
Loretta Lynn was my Dad's favorite country music singer.
Part of that was because he was also from Kentucky, in fact where he came from was just about 60 miles from Butcher Hollow.
My Dad was also a son of a coal miner , one of the reasons he related so well to Loretta Lynn.
I felt like I was sitting down and visiting with Loretta while listening to the audiobook.
She and my Dad were both from the Appalachian mountains with very similar beliefs and backgrounds, being superstitious was one of those particular beliefs.
This audiobook was a joy to listen to is all I can say.
Not because you love Loretta and her music, but because her life story is inspiring.
You’ll truly enjoy the tales of her younger years during the depression when times were rougher than anyone younger than 50 could imagine, but through it all you see that Loretta is a survivor, even in her 30’s when she deals with illnesses that almost cost her, her life, she is a pillar of strength.If you are familiar with Loretta's music, the book reads much like her songs.
I remember growing up hearing my father play Loretta Lynn records and recently watched the PBS American Masters on her, so I had to read this book.
I loved how she bared everything in her life from her roots, to her marriage to her thoughts about people, society and fame.
Loretta Lynn’s Coal Miner’s Daughter is one of the best autobiographies I’ve read.
I whole heatedly recommend this book to any one who loves stories about over coming odds, being true to one’s self and the sacrifices made for success and family.
This book is the true story of a woman who went from a poor but happy childhood in a small coal mining community, to being married at thirteen, having children at a very young age, becoming a grandmother in her twenties and becoming famous as a country music star, under the thumb of her controlling husband.
But what makes Loretta's story truly stand out is that she goes from a nervous and "ignorant hillbilly" as her husband calls her, to a confident person able to stand up for herself and be with her family.
borrowed from a friend at work
Okay, first, a few things:1) This book was fascinating and boring.2) This book was a study in contradictory beliefs.3) I learned a lot about Loretta Lynn and small country life.Seriously, this book was odd.
And moved across the country with her husband who regularly ran out on her and she also bore (such an antique word, I know) four children before she was 20.Yet, she's still happily married according to the book that was published in 1976.She's a self-professed feminist and a lot of her songs deal with women's rights stuff (like access to the pill and refusing to have sex with a drunk husband, etc etc ?).
It's a fascinating story, it really is, but the writing is pretty horrendous.
Lynn penned it with George Vecsey, apparently by dictating it to him and then he transcribed and wrote it.
But she also refers to "my writer George" throughout.
She (and her writer George) also continually write in a "hillbilly dialect" that seems totally contrived, especially given that the writer George is probably capable of proper grammar and punctuation.
It's kind of a miracle that a movie as good as Coal Miner's Daughter emerged from the bare bones of this account.
What an interesting life, married by age 14, babies immediately, and a grandmother at age 29.
I was more interested in her life in Butcher's Holler than by her life since becoming famous, but the whole book was good.
It's a short read and I would recommend even if you aren't a country music fan.
Her life is inspiring-from coal miner's daughter to famous musician.
Not many people can overcome those odds and make their dreams a reality.
And she may claim to not be into women's lib- as anyone who has listened to her music knows, she has a feminist spirit ("The Pill" anyone??).
If you ever listened to a Loretta Lynn song, you know what to expect from this book.
It's written the way she talks, and I swear I could hear her voice narrating it in my head - accent and all.
What impressed me the most in the book was how ignorant and clueless one can be when raised up in a cabin in the mountains.
The only downside is that is is too short, and Loretta went on to do much more with her life (but there are more recent books by her, though.)
I adore Loretta Lynn's music, and I saw this movie many, many times from childhood on up before I ever read the book.
I am grouping this in the feminist category b/c in her own special way Loretta brought the revolution to (white working-class, rural) women who would never have accepted it from the likes of Gloria Steinem or Betty Friedan.
:) Of course, she did stay with an abusive and manipulative man for all those years...
And she hawked freaking Crisco as if staying home and cooking were the most wonderful thing in the world...
"A you've been makin' your brags around townThat you've been a lovin' my manBut the man I love, when he picks up trashHe puts it in a garbage canAnd that's what a you look like to meAnd what I see's a pityClose your face and stay outta my wayIf ya don't wanna go to fist city"(Fist City)1) She's honest, open, funny and her life has been quite an adventure2)She's never lost her 'country girl' soul3)Don't cross her
Just going through and adding books that I read once upon a time. I remember really enjoying this memoir. Never knew anything about Loretta Lynn and I found her to be very interesting.
In 1970, country music legend Loretta Lynn released "Coal Miner's Daughter," a song that tells the story of her life.
I read the book a number of years ago but kept hearing good things about the audiobook version, narrated by Cissy Spacek.
I read that Loretta wanted the writing to sound just like she does, so if you're looking for a book where the pronunciation is always correct and the editing is pristine, you might not enjoy this book.
The style of writing, an oral history, might be difficult for some to read but Cissy Spacek does a wonderful job of narrating.
All women should read this book, even if they hate country music they will love Loretta Lynn.
Loretta is sassy, funny, and smart.
I really appreciated most of all her thinking on women, her forward leaning stance on birth control and abortion, her concern for Indian rights, really everything she had to say.
Loretta Lynn wrote her own songs and broke her own trails.
I didn't expect to open this book and find a little-known (at least to me) feminist foremother, but my hat is off to you Miss Loretta Lynn.
This book is just amazing I admire loretta lynn, Love her songs and she's the queen of country music.
I seen the movie about 20 thousand times it's just amazing sissy spacek and tommy lee jones did an outstanding performance and sissy played loretta lynn so perfectly glad she won the award for this and thanks loretta lynn for picking her in the movie to play her.
All I can say loretta lynn is a wonderful, beautiful, outstanding performer and she Dosent let us down she's always singing and giving it her all.
there no one like MISS LORETTA LYNN !!
So many reviews of “Coal Miner’s Daughter” repeat the thought that Lynn was so honest in her book, telling the good and bad of her life.
But the book does feel a bit manufactured, a bit like she is telling a story her way to get people to think what she wants them to think of her.
Maybe it’s the choice of topics her narrative covers and leaves out, maybe it’s the repetitive plaint that she’s just a country girl, maybe it’s the end of the book where Lynn repeatedly makes you feel sorry for her because she feels unsafe away from home and other people.
I was watching the movie Coal Miners Daughter for the umpteenth time and became captivated with the scene where her father takes her to the train station and decided to read the book.
Sometimes it's the little things.Lets just say after reading this book I now have a profound respect for Thomas Rickman who wrote the screenplay.
The only thing to book makes clear is the timeline, how much time passed between major scenes in the movie.
Other than that, the book is a knotted mess that the movie straightens out.
The book was so inspiring and I learned a lot from just reading her biography.
After that whole time that I would read the prologue and look at all the pictures this book made me wish I started reading it in April when it was bought.
I read this book at school, at home, on the bus, and just about anywhere else I could possibly fit myself into reading this.
I now want to watch the movie thanks to the book and everyone else that has told me about it.

An interesting look into Loretta Lynn’s life. She didn’t seem to hold much back and doesn’t seem ashamed by any aspect of her life. How many mothers would admit they weren’t around enough for their children, or their nanny was more of a mother to the kids? Not many, but Loretta Lynn did. I was more interested in her life growing up in Kentucky because life in the Holler has always interested me. Her husband doesn’t sound all that great, but oh well.
It's probably an odd choice of a book for me - I know nothing about country music, and I'll be honest, I didn't even know who Loretta Lynn was. I think it was a combination of that and the hillbilly dialect the book was written in which just alienated me. Lynn's voice was probably authentic, but I just couldn't warm to the folksy, naive, innocent, proud-to-be-uneducated character that emerged. I am sure that this would appeal to some people, but it didn't work for me.
Loretta's story just made me feel uncomfortable, as it probably should since she was married at 13 and had 4 kids by the time she was 18. Unfortunately, that isn't the part that bothered me the most. She was a grown woman when she wrote this book and yet her stories still felt like they were being told by a child. I found her innocent outlook about everything going on around her to be a bit creepy.
i love her! (her music and her writing!) she is who she is, she's not ashamed of anything & you can take her or leave her! coal mminer's daughter the movie has been one of my favorites since i was 19 and i finally got to see her in concert in aug of 07! through ebay i own the original hardcover and paperback editions of this book!
I'm a huge fan of classic country music, and particularly, Loretta Lynn. As I was weeding the biographies in my library I came across this memoir, written by Loretta in 1974 and was very intrigued. She has had one heck of a life, from growing up very poor in Coal Mining Country, to getting married at 14 and then having FOUR kids by the time she was 20. Just an amazing story.
I have enjoyed several of her songs, on the radio and TV, but I just cannot respect her for putting her career above her kids and marriage! All she and her husband cared about was fame and fortune. Glad that I never supported their greed by buying any of her records!
