https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/504369.Field_of_Dishonor
After reading this book I realized that The Short Victorious War was just a prelude to what Weber wanted to do here.
And while all the other novels of this series have indulged in a large amount of militaristic (as well as political) strategy , this focuses on the character development of Honor Harrington herself more than any other portion of the series I have read yet.It is a story of loss and dealing with that loss.
The war with Haven still looms, but it has yet to have been realized at this point.The book starts with the total disgracing of Pavel Young, who is virtually Honor's sworn enemy.
Probably some other book snagged my attention and distracted me from finishing this amazing series.
But now I'm back and hopefully will finish the series by the end of the year.I love this type of sci-fi as those familiar with my obsession with the Vorkosigan's Saga can attest.
I'm an emotional type of reviewer and the strongest emotional response a book elicits from me the higher the rating I give.
But hey at least now I have the motivation to finish those other books as quickly as possible so I can get back to Honor and her adventures.
Still the character didn't seem (to me) to stay real....true to the way she'd been established...though I assume Mr. Weber would say he's simply showing us another facet of her.
But we survived.***************** Warning Spoiler Below Line *****************(view spoiler)[In the midst of her personal tragedy Honor in this book first goes almost catatonic...endangers Nimitz (her tree cat) by her actions and then decides to flush her career, for revenge.
Putting her own pain and revenge ahead of her Tree Cat and her duty just didn't seem like the character we'd met.
Harrington and her ship return to the home world for refitting - and to deliver Pavel Young to justice.In the last book he lost his nerve under fire.
Harrington's nemesis is to be tried for cowardice in the face of the enemy.
She had no major nemesis to fight against - no significant problems to overcome (other than another star ship or two).
In this book she fights against Pavel who is using the system to destroy the woman he hates.
Pavel orchestrates a well-thought out plot to destroy Harrington and those that she loves.
Honor duels with - not blasters - pistols in this book.
Given the title and the short description this is really not a surprise but I did not like this book in the Harrington series.
I mostly read this one since I didn't want to skip a book in the series.The entire book revolves around political bullshit and vendettas.
The only positive part is that the bratty coward of a ship captain (those who read it knows who I mean) finally bites the dust at the end.I will not give it a one-star since that's what I reserve to the crappiest of the crappy ones and there's nothing "technically" wrong with the book but it's not at all my cup of tea.
This is probably the most interesting half of the novel, as Honor and her merry gang of chums have to work out why the duel started and who is, potentially, financing it, and why.
I didn't recall them ever having been mentioned as a part of Manticorian society before, or did Weber just introduce them as a way to clean house of a few characters ready for the next phase in Honor's life, presumably in exile on Grayson?But, flaws (and there are a few), and obvious attempts to create a bridge novel aside, it was fun.
, to find out what Honor's life on Grayson was going to be like.
These books are formulaic: Honor gets into the trick bag through no fault of her own, sticks to her guns despite pressure otherwise, & goes on to kick ass.
10 minutes is a LONG freaking time & really makes me appreciate the ability to skim through pages.
Luckily, I'm doing something else, so I tend to zone out & don't have to bother fast forwarding, although I did a time or two.
I'm not sure if I'm getting used to her weird accents or she's eased up on them, but I didn't find them as jarring.
The fourth of the Honor Harrington series, this book has a completely different feel and is fought on a totally new battleground from the previous novels in the series.
Those like me, who cringe at any possibility of having to slog through page after page of detailed political workings, need not worry; with the exception of a few sections in the beginning of the book, the main focus is on Honor and how certain events affect her, not the inner workings of Manticore's vastly complex political structure.
These politics become important to parts of the story and Weber doesn't lose himself in explaining how his world is governed; he only gives what is necessary (and perhaps just a little bit more) to understand why this or that happened.
Honor grandit bien en tant que personnage, elle fait face à tout ce qu'elle n'aime pas, notamment le fait de devenir une figure publique, elle subit aussi beaucoup émotionnellement parlant et se combativité est à son maximum pour se battre contre cet ennemi qui la suis depuis si longtemps.Jusqu'ici, en dehors de moments bien spécifiques, j'avoue que si elle était très efficace et intelligente dans ses choix, j'ai toujours imaginé Honor limite timide, du genre un peu effacée.
Mais pour ma part il a été le déclic au niveau du personnage d'Honor que je ne regarderais plus jamais de la même façon.Je dois dire que ça fait vraiment plaisir, parce que j'avoue que j'avais un peu de mal sur les tomes précédents.
Awful, this is where I am going to drop the series.
It's as well written as always, in that it is a pretty easy read, a good, light page turner but...my god.
The plot is awful.
This book reads like a hurt/comfort fanfiction.
It was honestly hard to finish this one with how awful the characterization was.
Weber can make an engaging space naval battle, but his politics are amateurish and he chose to go with none of the former and all of the latter this book.
Well, it wasn't the same formula as the other Harrington books had fallen into. This time there's no galaxy-spanning military action or charge into the jaws of death--well, not intentionally--but it was still too obvious. Even Honor's angst was hard to believe. (We knew her love interest could not last too many more books.) But Honor still comes out on top. Talk about Teflon coated.Disappointing, but still a good read.
There is Mary Sue. There is Marty Sue. What type of Sue is it when the author is male and the character female?This isn't a bad book and it is somewhat intersting. It's just I wish everyone in the book would stop telling me how wonderful Honor is. And I'm sorry, the whole relationship thing didn't quite work for me.
Despite the lack of treecat action, possibly one of the better books in the series so far.While much of the plot became fairly obvious as soon as certain characters appeared, and my dislike of politics being about as strong as Honor's, I enjoyed this one.
It's the first Honor Harrington book to be entirely personal.
She's good at everything she needs to turn her hand to (she can snap-hip-fire a pistol and put three unaimed rounds in someone's chest from 40 metres, which probably puts her at Olympic marksman levels).Still, this one was a joy to listen to.
Good book.
This one was where things came to a head and had to handled only as Honor could handle it, and as honor dictated. It wasn't about space or the future, it was just a great story about people and what they stand for and how they handle themselves. This story could have bet set in any time or place, but I just kept getting flashes of "Hamilton" the musical. The track Ten Duel Commandments was playing in my head and gave me a wonderful soundtrack to the denouement of this tale.
Au champ du déshonneur est un tome franchement féministe, qui délaisse pour un temps les batailles spatiales pour se concentrer sur Honor Harrington. David Weber parvient à la rendre plus attachante encore, en jouant parfaitement sur l’empathie du lecteur avec une palette d’émotion qui va de l’amour à la haine, de l’admiration au mépris. Un excellent tome.
One of the best books in the Honor Harrington series.
(Let me start this off by saying I'm going to make a concerted effort to review everything I read from now on- only exception is manga series, in which I'll only review the first one and anything else I find particularly noteworthy.)I have never liked the Honor/Tankersley pairing.Never.
I am looking forward to seeing more of Grayson, especially since the cover of book five is my favorite of the entire series, but there has to have been a better way for Honor to get groundsided than this.
This is the best of the Honor Harrington novels up to this point.
The undercurrent mantra of the first three books, "But She's a WOMAN!" Unfortunately, gone too is the space warfare that put David Weber on the Map with his outstanding Starfire novels.
Replacing fleet strategic warfare is dueling pistols.Diminished was the pristine perfection of Honor Harrington.
Honor has to win a series of duels (with pistols) to take revenge on the guy who had her boyfriend killed.
The latter group got a tad more interesting with the addition of a couple of body guards with potential.Only read this book if you liked the first two.
The Fourth instalment of the Honor Harrington series brings an end to one of the major antagonist's of Honor's life--the one that has attempted to curtail her career, and her life, since their shared time in the Navy Academy.
The truest description of this novel is that instead of exploring Honor's admittedly brilliant combat manoeuvres it instead focuses on her borderline frightening physical abilities.
Honor Harrington is a physically capable woman who is kind and honourable by choice.
It is a very satisfying read especially for those that are a fan of Honor Harrington as a woman as well as a Navy Captain.
If you start reading at Chapter 18, this is a halfway-decent book.
While different from the first few books in the series, the plot moves along reasonably well and comes to a satisfying conclusion.But if you read the first 17 chapters, you will hate this.
Most likely you'll stop after chapter 4 or 5, when the endless pages of innane political debate and characters making speeches get to you.
The first part of this book is simply terrible, with almost everything that's bad about sci-fi present in abundance.
I really enjoyed this.
It follows directly on from the previous entry in the series, but the plot moves largely ground-side and becomes a story of politics, justice and revenge.
It's easy to criticize; many of the characters are still caricatures, David Weber's attempts to convey emotional depth are pretty clunky, and (technically a spoiler but so painfully obvious it hardly counts) many of the characters only seem to be introduced in order to die before we get attached to them.
But I got sucked into the plot nevertheless, and I read it quickly, and I always wanted to find out what happened next.
I'd read it again - anytime I needed something escapist and fun.
This book feels vastly different to the previous installment. The last book was all big-scaled battles and maneuvers whereas this one was concentrated on Honor's personal relationships and her interactions with her friends and foes. I liked this much better.It was very sad what happened to Paul.... His death becomes a pivotal moment to Honor's life. It will be interesting to see how having loved and lost so quickly and completely will affect Honor's outlook in the future and how she deals with it.
This book avoids the military situations that made the previous books good, and predictably falls on it's face. If you though the "character development" of the previous books was actually convincing then you might like this book, otherwise avoid it.Oh, and the main character is now not only a tactical genius and a hand-to-hand expert, she is now also the best pilot in the military and, after a few days practice, the best duelist anywhere. I'm betting her chili wins first place at the country fair also.
This episode in Honor's life was less dull than I expected - "no space battles" ??? - I was very wary of long-winded political discussions, which happen a bit too frequently in this series.However, the pacing was good, characters mostly interesting, but the motivations and judgement of players was a bit cliched, and the mystery of who was driving the bad stuff was ridiculous. The final outcome was somewhat expected.Overall, I enjoyed the book, which could have been much worse.
Re-read January 2016This was the first Honor Harrington book that I read, having seen it in the library and thinking it looked interesting. Despite not having read others in the series, I was able to follow the story which starts with a court-martial for cowardice during time of war. I found the portrayal of the deliberations compelling and the follow up story to be quite interesting. After finishing this I immediately went to read the earlier Honor Harrington books.
An uncomfortable read or I should say reread, since this is at least the 3rd time through this one. And yet the introduction of Honor's Steadholder's Guard is one of my remembered favored parts. For that matter most of her involvement with Grayson - the impact she has on that society is certainly more than she has on Manticore and an interesting one. A solid read even without Navy battles.
3.75 stars. I love Honor, but Young is so repellent, it made me want to put the book down.And that's when I wondered about simplicity of plot. The characters (in general) are well dream and I like Weber's dialogue and plots. But still, I think he could do better. Nevertheless, this series is well worth your time and effort.
This story is mostly about Honor continuing to deal with the hatred and cowardice of Pavel Young. Honor suffers a deep personal loss and is consumed with getting justice for that loss. She also begins her duties as a steadholder on Grayson.
Honor deals with the fallout from the cowardice of Pavel Young. This story is mostly politics and revenge but Honor kicks butt once again.(view spoiler)[ And Pavel Young finally gets what he deserves (hide spoiler)]
Just reread it,Very bubblegumWhile an ok example of the series, it's not actually very satisfying like the other books. The problems I have with Weber's writing really come out to play when he's not banging on about the military and specific fights, and this book was very combat light.
