https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19631.Birds_of_America
Plus that alluring title (for a birder), Birds of America.
As in this dinner party exchange: "The thing to remember about love affairs," says Simone, "is that they are all like having raccoons in your chimney.""Oh, not the raccoon story," groans Cal."Yes!
The raccoons!" cries Eugene.I'm sawing at my duck."We have raccoons sometimes in our chimney," explains Simone."Hmmm," I say, not surprised."And once we tried to smoke them out.
"Love affairs are like that," she says.
"They all are like that."I don’t believe I’ve ever had a love affair which ended quite so spectacularly.
Moore's writing style is subtle, and laced with a fantastic sense of wit; witness, for example, her slight mocking of the health fad craze in the names she creates for juice bars; or her sly commentary about the misnomer of "busy bee" in the story "Whatever You Want, Fine." Added to this wit is a keen sense of what it means to be on this earth and to interact with someone else (I'm being cliche here, because I'm no Lorrie Moore), to have an effect upon someone's life simply because you happen to walk a similar road together for awhile, and it is the way in which she explores this truth that gives her stories the weight they need to avoid being simple comic pieces.
Maybe the most perfect short story collection I've read (that wasn't a "collected works" or "best of").
Kakutani's back blurb calls the book: "sad, funny, lyrical, and prickly" and that's probably the best way to describe her.
She is awash in those kinds of contradictions, but it's what makes her stories a joy to read.
You always end up where you least expected to go but somehow in her absurd little world, it makes sense.
All the stories are well done and worth reading, though.And psst, Ms. Moore, it's been almost ten years since this book came out.
One of my main strategies for dealing with life is, "If I don't laugh, I'll cry."I think Lorrie Moore's strategy is to make me do both.
Though this may very well be true it's still dispiriting to read about.In some of these stories characters hook up with the wrong people because they're lonely and needy - and then are disappointed.
Another is about a woman who was holding a friend's baby when an accident occurs, killing the child; of course the woman blames herself and can hardly go on.I think my favorite story is about an unhappy spouse who learns to use a gun, then gets to shoot a nutcase who breaks into people's homes to make them sing.
I just looked at the overwhelmingly glowing reviews here on goodreads, and hmm, I just don't get it.5 stars - "Four Calling Birds, Three French Hens"4 stars - the joke in "Beautiful Grade" about the professor writing Flannery O'Connor articles ("A Good Man Really IS Hard To Find," "Everything That Rises MUST INDEED Converge," "The Totemic South: The Violent ACTUALLY DO Bear It Away")-"Real Estate" (I thought I didn't like this one much until I got drunk and analyzed it)3.5 stars - a mix of "Agnes of Iowa" and "Community Life".
"The thing to remember about love affairs," says Simone, "is that they are all like having raccoons in your chimney.""Oh, not the raccoon story," groans Cal."Yes!
The raccoons!" cries Eugene.I'm sawing at my duck."We have raccoons sometimes in our chimney," explainsSimone."Hmmm," I say, not surprised."And once we tried to smoke them out.
"Love affairs are like that," she says.
"They all are like that."-------------------So anyway, the story "People Like that are the only people Here" is great, every word skewered onto the page, and half way through I thought This Is No Mere Story, which Wikipedia confirmed was correct, it was autobiographical.
Some stories are awesome, others are lackluster…but some are awesome...Like this one
El quid de la cuestión era que yo buscaba un tema, la columna vertebral de cada cuento; centraba demasiado mi visión en la anécdota que contaba, cuando la verdad es que termino con la impresión de que el suceso narrado no es sino un pretexto para las lucubraciones, los comentarios, los chascarrillos, sus sentencias y frases lapidarias, y, como no, para mostrar su incuestionable valía como escritora, su personalísimo estilo, que no discuto lo más mínimo.
Sin embargo, como corolario de esa primera impresión tengo que decir que toda esa artillería que despliega Moore en algunos de los cuentos parece estar únicamente al servicio de ese chascarrillo, de ese comentario ingenioso, de esa observación punzante.
To celebrate my one-year anniversary of joining Goodreads, I've decided to read and review one 5-star book from each of the five favorite new reading buddies I've met on GR. First up is  Birds of America , a collection of 12 short stories from Lorrie Moore. It's a favorite book of my new pal Snotchocheez, a kind, wise, supportive, all-around cool guy.Now, in 1998, when  BOA  was released, I was 20. I was a junior in college at Mizzou. I was fed up for life with the academic approach to analyzing
To celebrate my one-year anniversary of joining Goodreads, I've decided to read and review one 5-star book from each of the five favorite new reading buddies I've met on GR.
(I love the dining hall.)This is a collection of twelve short stories, all but one of them previously published in the 
Will I spend 40 pages full-on engaged while she marries some professor just because he insists on it, then takes her to this nightmarish European academic retreat?
I loved three of the stories in this collection: "Charades," about familial aggressions played out over a holiday game, "What You Want to Do Fine," about the breakdown of a romance between two men on endless road trip vacations across the US, and "Four Calling Birds, Three French Hens," about a married mother mourning her dead cat - which, despite sounding like it would mostly be sad, is also so deadpan funny that I laughed until I cried at one point.
Goodreads will not let me change it back from read twice.
The writing is very smart and I like the dark humor, the wisecracks. But the stories themselves are too much alike, the main characters are more or less of the same type and there is not too much happening. Good to read a single story once and a while but not an entire collection.
Todo el mundo te habla de lo maravillosa que es esa persona.
Todo el mundo habla bien de ella.
Por lo que es más incómodo aun.
Ojalá me hubiese encantado y haber llevado estos relatos tan dentro de mí que no cabría otra que hablar de ellos en otros términos.
La falta de encuentro entre dos personas que se tienen frente a frente.¿Tengo que disculparme?
Claro que no.
Pero me siento incómodo por que estas historias no hayan podido ser mis historias.No me queda otra que dejar la jaula abierta y salir de la habitación.
Beautiful stories, obviously. This is also the book that everyone says YOU MUST READ THIS. So, of course I am resistant to it. I did like it, but I also felt like each story hit a similar note...which is probably a good thing for a collection, but is a bad thing for a reader. All of her stories (in here, nowhere else) have this feeling of spending a day in a musty house to me...not sure if that makes sense.
In "Real Estate" she smashed the narrative structure with her 2.5 pages of "Ha!" as a response to her husbands multiple affairs that happen in Spring.
She does this with her witty genius and tricky twists of fate with other characters who act out a similar rage.
But, the story that left the deepest imprint was "People Like That Are the Only People Here" which did loops around illness and the type of loss that happens, how it shreds relationships thread by thread and how when it's over, it's hollow survivors never want to see those people again, that sadness again.

She's an excellent story writer - this is her best I think.
just come across some notes on this from a 1998 notebook: her stuff can hit like a brick round the head.
Bitterness, the brutality of what we can think and feel, and how we can't forgive ourselves.
In 'Real Estate' a death from lung cancer, intertwined with a story of a burglar who makes his victims sing and writes down the words, but can't recall the tunes when he gets home.
The singing night, the spaceship like a set of lit teeth in the sky; the page and a half of Ha's!
Great stuff.
In "Real Estate," Moore writes, "She never knew anymore what was good life and what was bad, what was desirable matter and what was antimatter, what was the thing itself and what was the death of the thing: one mimicked the other, and she resented the work of having to distinguish." In the book's final story, "Terrific Mother," Moore highlights the complexity and ambiguity of life: "...In this temporary dissolve, seeing death and birth, seeing the beginning and then the end, how they were the same quiet black, same nothing ever after: everyone's life appeared in the world like a dark movie in a room.
I just remember reading this book in almost one sitting, I think, waiting for my boyfriend to get home from work.
It is something that winds tightly around your throat and makes you cry in short hot spurts, like, am I really reading a book right now?.
She would try then not to think too strenuously about her whole life.
She would try to live life one day at a time, like an alcoholic - drink, don't drink, drink.
"I always thought someday I would have a little girl and name her after my grandmother." Sidra sighted, peered wistfully into her sherry.
Lorrie “Morbid” Moore’s book of stories were bleak and foreboding, but they appealed to me more than I’d have thought. She is a very talented writer. It’s always appreciated when you can go deep into the heads of characters to discover those remote yet recognizable elements of the way we humans can be. It’s not like the stories are relentlessly dark. There’s even some humor at times – good, sharply observed stuff. It’s just drearier in tone than I’m used to enjoying, so it surprised me when I did.
When describing literature you like, it's easy to reach for superlatives ("the most insightful prose and thoughtful character exploration"; "never been a more sensitive accounting of the rhythms of emotion") in an attempt to sell your friends on it in the hope that they will read the same thing and feel how you feel when you were in the midst of it so that your sense of elevation, of light, of indigestion will be confirmed in another person, meaning that you were not after all drifting alone when you were moved, and that what you felt was real, at least in the feeling of it.
It seemed to me like many of these stories were about characters either finally feeling the depth of their lack of fulfillment or grief or fear or finding some small glimpse of hope in the middle of the lack of fulfillment.
I feel like this kind of writing gets a lot of praise in MFA circles and cutting edge literary circles.
I like books where characters grow and change, and I feel like I've learned something about life or about another way of living somewhere else in the world or about human nature.
In lieu of this trend wherein I do not think I inhabit my oubliette alone, most short story writers attempt to create vignettes (heavy on the French today) that are tiredly unique to each other.
Moore, I think, attempts solidarity by thematically and tonally creating stories that are strikingly similar.
Dare I say that each narrator has the same Mooreish wit an analyst could presume is a solid embodiment of Moore's own cynical wit and perspective?Thematically, there are golden threads that link the concepts of place or where one is from, relationships and tired fidelity, child death (heavy on the gut-Wrench today), academia's ivory toilet, and American Diaspora who live at home.
“There are the notes. Now where is the money?” The short story is no longer the commercial storytelling medium that it was in its heydey, but the copyright page of Birds of America is strong evidence that the short story system can still work incredibly well as an incubator of literary talent and new work. The publisher writes:Eleven of these stories were originally published in slightly different form in the following: Elle: ‘Agnes of Iowa’; Harper’s: ‘What You Want to Do Fine’ (originally tit
Birds was a standout book of 1998, sure, but should this be included among the stories that students of the future use to access Clinton-era America in the way that students of today access the Gilded Age via Fitzgerald and Waugh?It doesn’t take much time browsing through the book with this question in mind to surface ample evidence that the correct answer is a resounding ‘Yes.’Take the subtitle of what is perhaps Moore’s most iconic work, the Bill Buford-edited “People Like That Are the Only People Here”: CANONICAL BABBLING IN PEED ONK.The urination- and pig-sound-looking “Peed Onk” is, we find out, what people embedded in the world of Pediatric Oncology call Pediatric Oncology because, presumably, they must say the words that mean “the treatment and study of tumors in children” so often that they have shortened the phrase for convenience and also have become numb to it.
So I decided that I would try at one of her more famous books of short stories.
In the abovementioned story she lists the names of the children in the cancer ward the last mentioned, Mort and Tod. I speak German and understand the French reference and I thougt well that was clever until she put in parenthesis (Mort and Tod!) Sigh.
Although music pervades society, I still appreciate the absurdity of the character not knowing a song and then scribbling the lyrics down like mad while he is robbing people.
Moore balances the tragically heartbreaking and the ironically comedic quite well and she does modern dialogue better than any writer out there (I really wish she would have written a screenplay at some point).
You have definitely read stories like this before--they appear all the time in The New Yorker, The Atlantic or This American Life by east-coast educated writer with hipster cred--and while I tend to dislike and become extremely annoyed with such stories, Birds of America is, deservedly, one of a few exceptions.
Lots of heart-tugging, gut-wrenching stuff, lots of original observations about humans and the planet on this sweet kind of micro-level.
Lots of quotable stuff, plotted and paced masterfully.
And yet--Maybe it's just because everyone LOOOOOOOOOVES Lorrie Moore, but I found it a little contrived?
Because it was deployed in every story--because it is, in fact, Lorrie Moore's identifiable style, the narrators began to mimic each other.
And I found myself thinking, wait, is that from the story about the woman who went to Ireland to kiss the Blarney Stone?
Or from the story about the woman who bought that ramshackle farm house?
I feel like kind of a jerk reviewing this lowly. I mean, it was...it was nice. They're sweet, funny-ish, lovely-written. Just loses it's charm after five or six stories where.... "I hold an odd job and had a funny thought today and then my friend said, 'oh not that again' and I drove to a tree I like and thought, 'ah yes, this again'. Ta-da!"
Uma dúzia de contos densos, sólidos e bons. Tendencialmente femininos na voz - a mulher na sua 3a /4a década de vida- mas vincadamente andróginos no espírito, são estórias interiores " sobre as ideias pantanosas sobre as quais a vida na intimidade é construída". Vale ( muito) a pena
Si alguna vez te preguntaste cómo se puede escribir y narrar sobre un BEBÉ CON CÁNCER (entre otras miserias) sin caer en la cursilería ni el patetismo, la respuesta es Lorrie Moore.
