https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18108281-the-king
Hey, I just thought of something . . .WHEN BETH GOES INTO HER NEEDING QHUINN AND BLAY WILL BE GOING AT IT LIKE RABBITS FOR HOURS ON END*passes out*________________________________________Scroll down for exciting news on the future of the BDB series, tidbits about the Fallen Angels series, and info on the next book. But be warned: there are spoilers if you've not finished reading Lover At Last.>The next book is about Wrath and Beth and is titled The King; it will be about him having an heir.&g
However, she did say that Layla's pregnancy will take a long time since she is a pure bred, but Beth’s pregnancy may be more in line with humans since she is a half breed.>Lash WILL be back, she just doesn’t know when.>Is there a connection between Michael (Story of Son) and Murdher – answer “Duh!” but doesn’t know if it will be “seen” in a book.>Sola isn’t related to Manny and Butch.>How will it work with Qhuinn and Blay, Layla, Xcor and the baby – KEEEEEP REEEADING!!>Did the Scribe Virgin create the Shadows – they are a subspecies that developed on their own.>In regard to Assail – Warden thinks he’s awesome, she’s obsessed with him and his cousins are totally effin HOT!!>There is a nexus with the Fallen Angels battle for good and the development of the BDB plotline – she thinks it could go either way but a crossover is logical.>There wasn’t anything else (or anyone else) in the barrels with Luchas.
Eeeeeeeeeee we have the cover :DWrath looks scary but I love it!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Omg a 12th book???They are going to try and have a baby!But we have to wait until 2014.
1. Wrath/Beth - LOVED!
Made me cry the scene where he shows the picture to everyone <3 2.
Assail/Sola - First half of the book was good with them, I liked how he was (view spoiler)[popping people all around ahahahhahaha that was awesome (hide spoiler)], but then, in second half Assail turned into a p*ssy (pardon my language) and I didn't like him or Sola.3.
- <3 Loved scenes with him, wish there were more <36.
iAm - the only interesting side-character in this bookI doubt I'll even try the next book.
*buddy with Glam, I had more fun with the buddy than the actual book :DDD*
Follow the continuing storyline of JR Wards most beloved series where we are also discovering more about surrounding characters, impossible romance and an alpha vampire world that you'll never want to forget.What did I love?JR Ward has an imagination that is second to none, her writing style and well thought out story telling is other worldly - quite literally.
In this particular book of the series you can expect more romance, more action, and more 'getting to know' some additional characters, here JR Ward focuses on the king and queen, Wrath and Beth, Assail the drug lord and his obsession with Sola the human con artist and finally iAm and Trez the mysterious Shadows.
Rev-visiting the very first and most beloved couple, fighting for the right to stay together and have a chance at happiness.As usual, she just can't stay there...
What I liked:✓ Wrath and Beth.The reigning couple simply RULES!!!
The threat to the throne brought them more close than ever and the ending simply stunned me!✓ iAmIn a sea of POVs and various characters interrupting my love affair with Wrath, the Shadow was a refreshing new voice.
Vishous couldn't have found a better mate, Ghost or not.✓ Wrath and AnyaGiving us a rare glimpse at the past, we got introduced to Wrath's parents!
5 “Long live the King.” Stars  SpoilersFirst read 2014Reread 4/13/2017“I’m goin’ nowhere, leelan. You don’t worry about a goddamn thing. Understand me?” Beth wanted to believe him. Needed to. But she feared it was a promise far harder to keep than speak. “Beth?” “Make love to me.” It was the only truth she could put out there that wouldn’t burst the bubble. “Please.” He kissed her once. Twice. And then started to move again. “Always, leelan. Always.”-Wrath and BethI loved The King! It was so goo
It was a little bitter sweet though since anyone following the series knows that Wrath Sr. and Anha are horrifically murdered in front of their pretran son.
I knew when I finished the last book that Wrath and Beth were going to be having some problems since Beth caught baby fever and Wrath didn't want a child.
“Pastor Ass-hat, I have a question.” “Yes, my son, you are going to hell.”-Lassiter and RhageEven though I hated seeing Beth and Wrath fight, I loved seeing them grow in their relationship.
Both characters are now so unattractive personality wise that it is hard to root for the survival of the race, let alone whether or not they get the baby Beth so desperately thinks will solve all her problems.At this point in the series there is a definite feel that Ward is taking things somewhere that the characters themselves don't particularly want to go and the books are so formulaic at this stage it's easy to call events before you see them.
- Saxton is part of a major future plot line.- We will see more of Trez and Selena.- Ward is working on Mary and Rhage's baby book as well.- Quhinn and Blay will be mated, their story is not over.
- We will see Layla's young soon.- Havers will have nothing to do with Wrath and Beth's pregnancy.
"Over my dead fucking body."- Sola is 100% human.- The guy who was on the phone with Xcor is Saxton's father.- Can't answer if Throe's family has been in the books....keep reading!- Payne will be laying her hands on George at some point to restore his youth.
5 Blind King stars! I’ve been waiting all year for this book. The 12th book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood. I am obsessed with this series, can’t get enough of my boys. This author could write dozens more books and I would keep on reading. I loved the idea of going back to the beginning- to an original brother. I may have been a little concerned since we’ve already had a Wrath book, but I shouldn’t have been. It was fantastic! I find these books incredibly difficult to review. In each book, we
I may have been a little concerned since we’ve already had a Wrath book, but I shouldn’t have been.
In each book, we have the main couple’s story (Wrath and Beth in this particular book) but that’s only the half of it.
I’ve always liked Beth and Wrath, but compared to some of the other brother’s stories, their tale in Dark Lover didn’t stack up.
The Chosen Selena has feelings for Trez.
Not only do I want more Trez and Selena, but after that little bomb iAm dropped on us, I can’t wait for his story!
I can’t get enough of these books.
April 5, 2014   Sometimes, you didn’t get what you wanted. But if you had all you needed?  2.5 starsThe King is one of the most anticipated books of the year, book 12 of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series. Book 11, Lover at Last was a huge disappointment, so I had no intention of reading further books of the series, but I’ve read it anyway. Why? Well, I realized this series is more and more like... no, actually it IS a soap opera. You don’t really want to watch, or read it anymore, but you wan
The plot is fragmented, tiring, and unnecessarily elongated.Things I couldn’t find in this book:  - originality,  - action and thrill,  - twists and turns,  - surprises,  - lessers, or any capable foe,  - real drama,  - steamy erotic scenes (because they are lukewarm and/or frustrating).Things in large quantities:  - secondary storylines and viewpoints,  - unnecessary scenes (for example who cares about how Xcor is peeling an apple or about the luxury of the foyer for the millionth time?),  - musings, inner monologues, emotional rantings,  - exhausting and irritating pop-culture references,  - overlong descriptions about nothing,  - boring recollections, and repetitive thoughts.
The extra PoV's were helpful in getting me excited for future stories to come.
But I generally liked the side stories as well, with a few exceptions (I've never been a fan of the lengthy flashbacks).
Between iAm, Trez, Xcor, Assail, Throe, Saxton, etc.
The familiarity and brotherhood and awesome sexual chemistry keeps me coming back, even when it takes me WEEKS to read the darn book because of parts that drag.
Maybe it won't always be this way, but sometimes I need to have something familiar to fall back on when I'm tired of constantly having to start new books and learn new characters.
3,5 starsDo I like The Black Dagger Brotherhood Series???? No, I MORE THAN LIKE IT………………  I have a secret to tell..….I was absolutely shattered after Lover at Last…..…yes I did. I lost my all-time favorite boyfriend……yes, Qhuinn left me for someone else!!!!!Anyway, I have moved on…..and what better way than…..yay….more about Wrath & Beth….i adore the King & Queen of all Vampires….So, I get THE KING the day it comes out…I am so excited, over the moon…..And by page 116….I give up…impossibl
That’s what I thought..instead there is not much happening here with these two………because we have all these other characters and couples that, IMHO just got in the way…..like..Assail & Marisol…I get it…their story has to be set up for their future book..but did I have to get so much about them…allright, I like Marisol (hell, I hate the shortened version of Sola…her full name is gorgeous…), she’s a kickass exotic…a Brazilian thief….heroine with the most lovable grandmother….but then she’s in lust for Assail, who I HAVE NOT engaged with…never mind that he’s sexy, gorgeous and is nice to her grandmother and his family…he’s still a mobster and drug dealer…….it’s going to take a lot for him to redeem himself to me!!!Then Trez, the Shadow and his HUGE LUST for the lovely and virginal Chosen, named Selena!!!
If you loved the earlier stories which were filled with passion and romance and happily ever afters obtained through faith, trust, honor, dignity, soul cleansing pain, and making compromises for the one you love because you love them above all else... you'll be happy to know that The King has all of these things, and more!And that quote up there... "Let yourself go and I shall catch you..." applies to so many people and situations in this story - trust, faith, hope... beautiful things.Full revi
If you loved the earlier stories which were filled with passion and romance and happily ever afters obtained through faith, trust, honor, dignity, soul cleansing pain, and making compromises for the one you love because you love them above all else... you'll be happy to know that The King has all of these things, and more!And that quote up there... "Let yourself go and I shall catch you..." applies to so many people and situations in this story - trust, faith, hope... beautiful things.Full review to come.........
☆ ☆  No spoilers and and definitely colorful language abound!   Oh, how the mighty have fallen.  Sigh.The King is upon us, and as a loyal, albeit disgruntled fan, I proceeded with caution. Despite the arduous and at times hysterical journey, I have triumphed.  It was exactly 3% that I realized the error of my ways. I like many of you awaited the publication of what I hoped to be Wards return to her former glory, reconnecting with the characters who started it all. With an omnipresent sense of dr
Ingredients for The Death Rattle   4 parts Miley Cyrus references ( added points with the mention of "twerking")2 dashes of the word "defo" ( added points with the use of "abso" and "jel", use accordingly)9 mentions of the iPhone ( added points with the mention of Apple, Siri, or the opposer Blackberry)1 references to Facebook relationship updates (read: It's complicated)1 nod to Nike's  Just Do It 117 uses of the word "sex"2435 scenes featuring characters no one gives a fuck about1 epic hose down of jizz17 excerpts from fanfiction to save time1 adult temper tantrum with the required use of tranquilizers1 scene of the "good ole days" just to keep the reader hanging on, use sparingly, we don't want them getting any ideas here.
I kept reading on hoping to get back into the BDB mojo, but there was no mojo to be found.
Like Lover at Last, there were too many side characters with their own povs, and all of the side plots made for a frustrating read.
I like getting to know more about the side characters and all, but why the long ass chapters of Assail and Sola interspersed with short, lame ass I-want-a-baby/I-don't-want-a-baby drama between Beth and Wrath??
R. Ward of the first few BDB books is
“Wrath - Beth x Overnight = Psycho-hose Beast”  I was so pleased that I had a chance to read Wrath and Beth's story again. The King was my favorite book of 2014. Although I reread it again this year, I still insist this is as good as the first book of the series where all the stories begins. Wrath overcame his blindness and live happily ever after with his shellan, Beth, in the last books. Yet in The King, Wrath has to face a new challenge when his Beth wants to have a child, that's not easy fo
I was so pleased that I had a chance to read Wrath and Beth's story again.
Wrath overcame his blindness and live happily ever after with his shellan, Beth, in the last books.
Yet in The King, Wrath has to face a new challenge when his Beth wants to have a child, that's not easy for him because even she's a vampire, the risk is still too high, and he can't lose her.
I liked many scenes from The King, especially (view spoiler)[When Wrath shocks the shit out of everyone by showing them his son's pics.
J.R. Ward planned out this book so good I couldn't have asked for me.
WHAT DOING ???. Answered prayers !!! YES !!! Wrath ❤❤❤NeedWantDYING TO READYOU FEEL ME???NEVER IGNORE A SUMMONS FROM THE KING ❤❤❤❤
However, I knew I was going to keep reading the series, and boy am I glad.With The King, I feel that an immensely important chapter has been closed in the Black Dagger Brotherhood, and it makes me happy because I feel that all the Brothers and their Shellans have found peace and the close bond of family, drawing close friends into their net.
It's going to be fun to see where the story leads, and I am in no way ready for this series to end.Character Thoughts:WrathI feel we got to see some added depth to Wrath that was very good for expanding my view and appreciation of the King.
OMGOMGOMGOMGGGG IT'S WRATH'S BOOK!!!!!Ward said this will be about Wrath and Beth. They're going to try and have a baby!March 25, 2014
January 15, 2018~ (Audiobook) Reread It’s been awhile since I’ve read this, I was getting twitchy and needed a Wrath fix. I’m still completely and throughly devoted to Wrath!!       5 Fantastic Royal Stars!! We start this book with an introduction of Wrath’s parents, Wrath and Anha, I loved the insight into Wrath's parents. Their introduction, their mating, and the love they find and share. We also, learn of the incidents that turned the former docile King into a Warrior which we first learned a
January 15, 2018~ (Audiobook) Reread It’s been awhile since I’ve read this, I was getting twitchy and needed a Wrath fix.
We start this book with an introduction of Wrath’s parents, Wrath and Anha, I loved the insight into Wrath's parents.
He struggles between giving Beth what she craves, needs, and really deserves from him specifically a baby, his duty as King, and his desire to still be a Warrior.
But, I’ve got to say I freaking loved the wedding scene, Rhage, V, and Lassiter were hilarious.
“Pastor Ass-hat, I have a question.” Yes, my son, you ARE going the hell.” Lassiter made a sign of the cross and then looked around.
Wrath, Beth and LW ( (view spoiler)[Little Wrath! (hide spoiler)])It is time for Wrath 1. to fall in love again (And for us to fall in love with him again):  “I can smell you,” he groaned against her ear as he ran his fangs up her throat. “The most beautiful thing in the world—except for your taste.”  2. To renew his vows to Beth:  “You have given me something ... I didn't even know I needed. It's the greatest gift I will ever receive--it's, like, completing me already in places I wasn't aware w
I guess this is the book that starts the second part of the BDB series: -It breaks the norm with the consistency of the books titles: Dark Lover, Lover Eternal, Lover Awakened etc.
(Ward laughs evilly here...)-More children are added in the series and now we can see the Brothers in the role of the father.
The series will be more family oriented from now on.-All the main characters have their HEA.
Now the secondary characters will start trying to have their HEA and adopt a more central role in the life of the mansion.
Mayhap this was the worst book in the series- well no - the desecration of Qhuinn and Blay's story sucked really bad.
Verily JR Ward has gotten ridiculous with the slang, hip hop references, and the uneven old world language.
JR Ward did the King a disservice by including all that other bullshit in his story.
Wrath finding himself as King among the vampires, his brotherhood, and within his relationship with Beth.
The book was long, oh so long, yet the ending will feel like JR sucked on some Nitro and took off at 300 mph.
Review Posted on 4th April, 2014---------------------------------------4.2 "LONG LIVE THE KING" Stars When you were without your husband, perfectly safe was relative. Storyline:Multiple Characters POV's, So there's not just one tale to get along with. An extremely hard task to keep the spirit of book and JR did an amazing job with that, though it annoyed me sometimes.Characters Development: Wrath (King of Wrath I) & Anha  flash back of Wrath's father's life, how he married to Anha and ruled
I loved Selena the moment Trez first met in the last book and JRW made sure of keeping the charm of these two characters lively and steamy(view spoiler)[the way things are going with Selena it seems like fade is sniffing down her neck but still there's a lot more of Trez and her story which gives me a hope that soon we'll be having the full fledge tale of these two (hide spoiler)]
* Saxton is part of a major future plot line.* We will see more of Trez and Selena.* Ward is working on Mary and Rhage's baby book as well.* Quhinn and Blay will be mated, their story is not over.
I actually loved this one.
I felt like this story was so much more than the usual lesser slaying and loved how the story really focused more on them as a couple.
This is actually one of my favorites in the later books.
I felt like JR Ward really hit it out of the park on delivering a story that was emotional and heart felt, but still remained true to her BDB style.
These last few books have really made me fall in love with the series again.
**4.3 Long Live The King Stars**"Why are you dong this?"There was only one answer. For tonight...and evermore:"Because I love you more than anything else."Review to come...
Describe The King in three wordsAngela: Satisfying. Emotional. Blissful.Francesca: Sad. Emotional. Heart-warming.Suzanne: I Love WrathAnnie: LONG LIVE THE KING (Yeah yeah, I cheated.)Did reality of The King live up to the hype?Angela: Yes! He certainly proved his worth and then some. It’s not a surprise who the people will pick.Francesca: It certainly did, and in a way that I was not expecting. But Ward is so great at that. This book was magical.Suzanne: For me…yes it did, in fact it exceeded m
He is one hot, very hot hero.Francesca: Obviously my favorite was Wrath and Beth, but aside from the main couple there are many I enjoyed John Matthew because I’m always a greedy whore for him, Saxton – because he’s a male of worth and I just need a full book about him and his HEA, and surprisingly iAm!
I thought the balance of the Wrath and Beth vs the other characters was perfect, there was plenty of the main couple, we didn’t need to spend 90% of the book with them, especially when there were other interesting things happening.
So we all know this is "suppose to be" Beth and Wrath's book and about them wanting/having a baby and while it's certainly that, it's just so much more!I have a love/hate relationship with JRW's writing and I think the deeper she gets in this series, the worse it is. In certain chapters, she was bouncing all over the place and it was a hot mess.  But... it also allows her to give us many more stories and I do love that. However, it did take till about 20-30% for me to really get into the book a
So we all know this is "suppose to be" Beth and Wrath's book and about them wanting/having a baby and while it's certainly that, it's just so much more!I have a love/hate relationship with JRW's writing and I think the deeper she gets in this series, the worse it is.
♥ “I am the King, you realize.” “And I’m the daughter of a deity, motherfucker.”(Best comeback ever!)♥ "Wrath - Beth × Overnight = Psycho-hose Beast."♥ "And hell, when she thought about it logically, getting True Love along with Happily Married and Hot Sex Life was already one hell of a trifecta."♥ “Holy shit.” Rehv shook his head and muttered, “Now we know what the zombie apocalypse looks like.”♥ “I’m not strong enough for this,” he whispered in her ear—like he didn’t want anyone to hear that coming out of his mouth.
His storyline is starting to intrigue me and I like him with Selena.
I love your relationship with your brother, and I really liked how you were there for Beth.
I hope JR Ward rewards you with a nice juicy storyline!*Wrath's parents love story--loved it!
Loved how it compared and contrasted with Wrath and Beth's love story.
Nice bit of storytelling and beautiful connection between the King and the BDB.With this book, I think Ward has wrapped up Beth and Wrath's story.
Some of these stories have been around for a couple of books, so I hope Ward completes at least one of them.
I didn't really like how things left off between them, so, I'm hoping something awesome happens in the next book that will cause them to reunite.I'm not going to lie, when I read the last book, I wasn't that big of a fan of Trez or iAm. But that completely changed with this book.
I loved how he opened up to Beth and really HOPE he finds the woman he deserves really soon.While I wasn't a complete fan of Xcor's story line in the last book, I was still left somewhat intrigued.
“Because that’s what the Brotherhood and their families were. Close as siblings, tighter than blood because they were chosen.”  Man I love Wrath. I could read on and on about him. He's so damn..perfect! All the others povs, well, I frankly don't give a crap about them, only about Wrath and Beth and this time, also John's pov. I would have enjoyed this book much more if the other side characters weren't in it, and to be frankly honest, I skimmed through a lot of those pov... I'm only giving thi
All the others povs, well, I frankly don't give a crap about them, only about Wrath and Beth and this time, also John's pov.
I would have enjoyed this book much more if the other side characters weren't in it, and to be frankly honest, I skimmed through a lot of those pov...
I'm only giving this book 4 stars mostly based on Wrath and Beth.
However, I know that without the others povs, I would have given this book 5+++ stars easily!
I seriously hope we get another book for Wrath.
“Sometimes, you didn’t get what you wanted.
