https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/416527.Night_of_the_Milky_Way_Railway
Moreover, Nichiren Buddhists believe this is the only way to achieve enlightenment in our time, for we live in a time of declining dharma.Kenji was writing Milky Way Railroad as part of an ongoing effort to proselytize for the faith he held so dearly, but he died before completing his project.
For Kenji, everyone is Toshiko.A Children’s StoryMilky Way Railroad is a complex novel, but it can also be enjoyed superficially as a children’s story about a boy who accompanies his dead friend on his journey to heaven.
“Gauche, el  violinista”  Precioso cuento cuya moraleja enseña que pocas cosas en la vida se consiguen sin esfuerzo e ilusión y que no debe perderse la esperanza cuando aquello que intentamos hacer no sale bien a la primera.  “Matsaburō, el dios del viento”  Este segundo relato me recuerda un poco a los manga de Matsumoto Taiyō (“Sunny”, “Ping-Pong”) por esa calma que desprende al hablar de los niños de la escuela y su curioso encuentro con un nuevo y misterioso compañero llamado Saburō (“¡en
Sin embargo si se toma como tal, el relato se puede disfrutar igualmente: es el producto del sueño de un niño solitario con viajar entre las estrellas y encontrar un mundo que sea menos cruel que este en el que vivimos.Hay partes que me han recordado a “El viaje de Chihiro” y un trasfondo que también me ha llevado a acordarme de “El castillo ambulante” y por eso creo que esta es una historia digna de Ghibli, digna del gran Miyazaki… pero curiosamente, los mundos que Giovanni y Campanella descubren en su viaje en tren por las estrellas, las gentes que llegan a conocer, las historias que éstos les cuentan evocan claramente a “El principito”.
A short tale of two boys, Giovanni and Campanella, which deals with themes such as dreams, loss and eventually life itself. It's a bittersweet story with an unexpected ending, that seems to me to have been a blend of 'The Little Prince' and 'The Polar Express'. I just wish I had the opportunity to read it as a child - I'm sure it would have left an indelible mark on me then.
I think I remember reading somewhere that Gabriel Garcia Marquez was amazed when he read The Metamorphosis, that he wished he'd known sooner that someone could write stories like that.
In the end, the train's destination is either obvious or mysterious, depending on how you look at it.One major thing you want in a story about children is for the younger characters to speak their age, because the trope of the child prophet is as dumb as it is smart.
It's one of those books that makes you want to research the cultural context surrounding it, just to be able to point to more details and say why it's amazing.
Miyazawa es un autor extraño. Su estilo, aparentemente inocente y simple, tiene giros de guion propios de los cuentos de hadas. Probablemente esconde mensajes ocultos y hace referencias a mitos y cultura popular japonesa, pero también se puede tomar como aventuras de chavales con elementos fantásticos claros. No me extraña que el autor sea tan popular en Japón, y que su influencia haya sido tan potente incluso para Ghibli.
Es tan precioso, muy onda principito ;v;
Recopilación de tres relatos en los que se mezcla la realidad con la fantasía. Curiosamente el que da nombre al libro es el que menos me ha gustado.

Tres historietas infantiles, de los cuales la que más merece la pena es la que da título al libro.
if kenji miyazawa punched me id thank him
'So long as you're on the proper road, no matter how trying a thing may be, you'll be getting closer, one step at a time, up and down the mountain to real happiness.'----'Campanella,' said Giovanni, sighing deeply, 'we're alone again.
If I could be like that scorpion and do something for the benefit of all people, I wouldn't care if my body burnt up a hundred times over.''Me too,' said Campanella, his eyes welling with the clearest tears.'But what is real happiness, Campanella?''Don't ask me,' he answered dreamily.--A short novel about friendship and childhood, the pursuit of happiness, and the end of both.Short and sweet and packed full of emotions.
Suggestive children story about a couple of boys, one of which (Giovanni) is a social outcast, with an absent father (he is hunting otters in the far north), a sick mother and a set of hostile classmates (all but Campanella) who are always teasing him.
Different versions exist, the usually published or translated, the latest.
In the translation I have read, however, excerpts from a previous version are also provided, which I found quite suggestive, because they give a better view on the intention of the author, although he evidently decided to simplify the story by deleting most of the "preaching".
Compuesto por tres relatos el primero es el que le da nombre al libro,un viaje onírico muy especial:
La obra de Kenji tiene mucha relación con la cultura, leyendas y mitos japoneses, también con su religión y con la sensibilidad con la que él percibió su entorno, es por ello que no es un libro para leerlo rápidamente, a pesar que sean pocas hojas y letra grande, varias veces me detuve a imaginar y a intentar sentir esos momentos que el describía.Varias veces en el "El tren nocturno de la Vía Láctea" me detuve a recordar un viaje que hice al norte, tuve la oportunidad de estas en un observatorio y ver por primera vez una cielo repleto de estrellas,  una alfombra de estrellas , algo así me imaginaba que podría ser, pero con el día y la noche diferidos, con luces cálidas de un tren.
Para empezar nadie en su sano juicio hace un prólogo soltándote spoilers importantes de lo que estás por leer, así que un gran consejo es que NO LEAS EL PRÓLOGO de este libro, solo harás un gran coraje.Tengo que decir que tenía tanta emoción por leer este libro que al final me he llevado una gran decepción.La primera historia al no estar conclusa debido a que el autor murió antes de terminarla, te deja con una sensación de insatisfacción, rebosa de fantasía e ingenio pero no se percibe que haya un cierre, aún con los intentos de los encargados de publicarla, una gran pena.La segunda historia se me hizo la más pesada y aburrida.Mientras que la última es como ese premio de consuelo cuando creías arrepentirte de haber empezado este libro, para mí la mejor y comparable a otros relatos que ya había leído de Miyazawa y que me alentaron a querer leer más de esta autor.
Giấc mơ của cậu bé này lại là sự thật của cậu bé khác.
Đó là một hành trình đi đến thiên đường trong mơ, mà có khi cũng chính là chuyến đi đã được sắp đặt sẵn từ thiên đường.
Dẫu cho ở thiên đường hay hạ giới thì chúng ta rồi cũng sẽ gặp nhau, mang đến hạnh phúc cho nhau, miễn là chúng ta có lòng cùng nhau đi đến cùng trời cuối đất.
Một câu chuyện dễ thương và buồn bã, nhưng lại mát lành như dòng sữa Ngân Hà.
Đẹp như ánh sáng lấp lánh của những vì tinh tú.
No hay que engañarse, pues se trata de cuentitos infantiles pero todos son simplemente maravillosos. Mi favorito es el de los tres hermanos y después de la Vía Láctea. Necesito más literatura japonesa en mi vida.
Exuberant visuals with a heart so pure and good, the book is sure a treasure. Loved it.
Myslím, že s Nocí na galaktické železnici jsme se nesešli - a přitom to nutně nemusí být její vina. Ovlivněn tím, co jsem z japonské kultury zatím spotřeboval, čekal jsem více. Více té kreativity, která je natolik odlišná té ze západní kultury, především. Ne, že by Miyazawa neměl nápady, jen jich bylo pod očekáváními méně.Naopak jsem měl pocit, že ta kniha po mně chce znalosti, které asi nemám. Silnější povědomí o orientálních myšlenkových směrech a jejich osobnostech, například.
Como se lee en la contraportada, es un poco parecido al Principito (que tampoco me parece un libro para niños), pero solo en la estructura y los personajes: niño inocente que va descubriendo cosas del mundo hace un "viaje" (en este caso un tren que va por la vía láctea) y cada capítulo nos habla de un personaje o símbolo que este niño, Giovanni, se encuentra.
I read a different version of Galaxy Train -- I think it was supposed to be a translation for Japanese native-speakers to learn english.
It's short and easy to read -- that's because it was made for a specific purpose.
Understanding who Miyazawa was and who he was writing for is incredibly important (I mean, doesn't everyone do a bit of research on authors before reading a novel?).
I think that this importance is underlined by the recurring allusions to the Galaxy Train in Japanese popular culture.
If you were put off by Galaxy Train, try reading some Miura and Soseki, then come back.
I give the story 4 stars for the story itself; I fear the translation has not done Kenji Miyazawa's beautiful "children's" story any favors.
Alas, it is the only readily available affordable translation.Miyazawa pulls deeply from the cosmic imagery of the Lotus Sutra, as well as it's message that all religions point toward the Dharma.
The message of how we deal with death (to say more spoils it - but this is the story I would use to teach a child and and adult about death) is as profound and moving as anything written.
The strength of the story breaks through what is something of a lackluster translation.
A beautiful story questioning the ideas of happiness, loneliness, and growth.
Something of a coming of age tale but so much more.
The complexity of the tale is impressive and the threads to untangle are very fun.
Perhaps what I enjoyed most is just the images Miyazawa manges to paint.
The sky swirls, colors dance, and one is lost in the aura of beauty put forth by the page.
The story is beautiful throughout.
It is Japanese literature though, so expect to have to read between the lines and do some research on Kenji Miyazawa yourself.
I finished this book in one sitting! A really interesting plot with and ending that leaves you in mystery. I liked the theme the book portrays which is "What is true happiness?", but I wish it was answered more clearly. The relationship between Giovanni and Campanella was interesting and overall the story was very poetic with great sensory details. I recommend this to anyone with interest in a sad yet thoughtful and unique story of Giovanni and his journey with Campanella on the Milky Way Railroad.
3,5 Relatos muy entretenidos, y pese a que no me gustó mucho el relato principal que le da el nombre al libro, me gustaron los otros dos: ✓Matasaburo, el genio del viento.✓Gauche, el violonchelista.Estas historias fueron muy amenas, un tanto raras por momentos... tal vez porque tienen que ver con las creencias del país (las cuales desconozco), por lo que me perdía a veces... pero aún así las disfruté mucho.
An excellent novella taking the reader on a journey through the Milky Way Railway where many new friends are met and adventures are had. Certainly reminiscent of some anime that I have seen (hardly ever watch it though). Unlike the other story (Restaurant of Many Orders) this seems to be more applicable to readers of all ages, with enough adult themes to keep the more matured authors in interest. The story is worth reading alone for the vivid imagery though.
It's hard to sum this story up in a few words. On the surface, it's a buddy trip story, but to where, and why. Then you realize that this simple story has great depth and moves toward the profound. I really appreciated the introduction that gives some background on Miyazawa and his times and provides insight into the content of Milky Way Railroad.
In his introduction to  Night Train , John Bester hopes that it will not be “vulgarized in a cute, Disney-like way to accord with presentday fashions” and I think we’ve come close with  Sometimes the Stars , but tough luck buddy, I still like it.I’ll mark this as a spoiler, even though there are explicit mentions of it in Goodreads’ blurb and other reviewers’ work: (view spoiler)[ There are cleverly subtle but frequent allusions to death throughout, often intertwined with religion, which hint at Campanella and other passengers’ departing from life.
In this way, Campanella’s death in a river with “black waters” sees him journeying across a river in the black sky to get to the afterlife  (hide spoiler)] .Ironically for a man named Bester, Bester’s Japanese-to-English translation of  Night Train  wasn’t the best.
เพราะไมมีใครจะเดินไปกับเราไดทุกคน สุดทายเราตองเดินไปตามทางของเราเพียงลำพัง *-*ชอบมาก เรียบงาย สะเทือนอารมณ แฝงปรัชญาตะวันออก (แทบจะบอกตรง ๆ แตแนบเนียนมากเพราะแสดงเปนรูปธรรมและอานสนุกแบบการผจญภัยของเดก) เรืองเลาถึงเดกสองคนทีเปนเพือนกัน คือโจวานนีกับคัมพาเนลลา ในคืนงานเทศกาลโจวานนีไดพบวาตัวเองไดขึนรถไฟขบวนทางชางเผิอกโดยบังเอิญ และพบเพือนของเขาคือคัมพาเนลลาอยูบนนันในสภาพเปียกปอน (ทำไมคัมพาเนลลาถึงเปียก มีเฉลยตอบจบ อยางเศรา ไมขอสปอยด) ขบวนรถไฟสายทางชางเผือกเปรียบเสมือนหนทางทีทุกคนจะตองเดินทางเมือวาร
เพราะไม่มีใครจะเดินไปกับเราได้ทุกคน สุดท้ายเราต้องเดินไปตามทางของเราเพียงลำพัง *-*ชอบมาก เรียบง่าย สะเทือนอารมณ์ แฝงปรัชญาตะวันออก (แทบจะบอกตรง ๆ แต่แนบเนียนมากเพราะแสดงเป็นรูปธรรมและอ่านสนุกแบบการผจญภัยของเด็ก) เรื่องเล่าถึงเด็กสองคนที่เป็นเพื่อนกัน คือโจวานนีกับคัมพาเนลลา ในคืนงานเทศกาลโจวานนีได้พบว่าตัวเองได้ขึ้นรถไฟขบวนทางช้างเผิอกโดยบังเอิญ และพบเพื่อนของเขาคือคัมพาเนลลาอยู่บนนั้นในสภาพเปียกปอน (ทำไมคัมพาเนลลาถึงเปียก มีเฉลยตอบจบ อย่างเศร้า ไม่ขอสปอยด์) ขบวนรถไฟสายทางช้างเผือกเปรียบเสมือนหนทางที่ทุกคนจะต้องเดินทางเมื่อวาระสุดท้ายของชีวิตมาถึง และแน่นอน ถึงแม้จะมีเพื่อนร่วมขบวน แต่ท้ายที่สุด เราก็ต้องไปตามทางของเราเอง " ทำไมล่ะครับ ผมบอกแล้วว่าจะไปกับคัมพาเนลลาตลอดไป ""ใช่ ทุกคนคิดอย่างนั้น แต่ไปด้วยกันไม่ได้ตลอดหรอก คนทุกคนก็คือคัมพาเนลลาทั้งนั้นแหละ ถึงแม้คนที่เธอได้พบ อาจจะกินแอ๊ปเปิ้ล หรือขึ้นรถไฟไปกับเธอได้หลายครั้งหลายหนก็เถอะ เพราะฉะนั้น เธอควรจะไปแสวงหาความสุขที่ยิ่งใหญ่สำหรับทุกคนอย่างที่คิดเมื่อกี้นี้ รีบไปที่นั่นพร้อมกับทุก ๆ คน แล้วเธอจะได้ไปกับคัมพาเนลลาตลอดไปจริง ๆ "
Dreamy, mesmerizing, philosophical. Beautiful and unpredictable. Supposedly the most beloved children's tale in Japan (although I found many of his others to be just as good or better).I wish this edition had more illustrations -- even though there are quite a few -- because Miyazawa's scenes are so evocative and open-ended. There are several translations of this, and I'd be curious to read one or two more. Miyazawa's language seems like it could be interpreted in myriad forms.
