https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32982.The_Haunted_Bridge
Andrew bought me a 1937 edition for my Christmas present this year. Hands down my favorite present this holiday. I thoroughly enjoyed the thick paper/pages, "old time" typeface and dated verbiage. It was like seeing an old dear friend after many years apart. Brings back wonderful memories for me.
Compared to the last Nancy Drew novel I've read, this one was so much better, probably due to the fact that this is a later piece.Mystery-wise, it is the usual Nancy-Drew-is-so-lucky scheme to be at the right place, and in the right time, to have met people that would help her solve the case, even her finding that small brass chest that would help determining the suspects.I did like the plot-twist where a character was highly suspicious but turned out to be uninvolved.
And, can I just say I loved the old-school feel of the story?
Golf resort mystery for Nancy and her friends! Nancy always plays a perfect round of golf, except when she injures her hand.Suspicious missing jewelry? Keep a lookout for someone wearing lots of it.More golf.An annoying man who always boasts and changes his handwriting.Don't go over that bridge that leads to that mysterious abandoned mansion.Golf tournament.Congratulations, Nancy (as usual.)
Spooky of story of Nancy Drew trying to solve the mystery of a haunted bridge, and then gets involved with jewel thieves.
Amazingly, I don't think there was a kidnapping in this one! The ghost writers known as "Carolyn Keene" must have started getting creative by this one (book #15) as there were some characters and plot distractions and twists in this one that "suggested" the story was going to lead one way, then in the end it turned out to be something else. In fact, the whole Haunted Bridge (which is the name of the book) turned out to be a silly side story.
This is one of those Nancy Drew mystery stories that starts out really strong, with amazing creepy moments and nightmarish imagery, and then suddenly it jumps the rails and turns into this completely bogus, boring country club mystery.
I read the original 30s version and it is notable in that 30s Nancy Drew actually has a personality, and gets irritated at Bess when she starts whimpering about the haunted bridge.
I grew up reading the condensed & edited versions (for more on this fascinating subject, read GIRL SLEUTH) and it is a breath of fresh air to see Nancy basically say, "BESS, CUT THE CRAP" instead of smiling indulgently.
Nancy Drew is the first series I developed an addiction to. Through Nancy Drew, I realized that determination, intelligence, loyalty and most of all, curiosity can make great things. Nancy Drew changed my childhood in ways I cannot even describe or fathom. It has been life when I was a child. This book opened me to the world of books and from then on, I never want to leave it. The joy I feel whenever I pick a book and read, I owe it all to Nancy Drew.
Mr. Drew is on the trail of an international ring of jewel thieves and asks Nancy to assist him. The trail leads to a summer resort area. Before Nancy has a chance to start work on her father's case, a golf caddy tells her a frightning tale. In the dense woods nearby is an old wooden footbridge guarded by a ghost! Intrigued by the caddy's story, Nancy decides to invesigate.
Pretty good addition to the Nancy Drew series. Mystery was interesting though the spooky element was short-lived and explained at the beginning of the book. I found the golf play confusing but otherwise it was a fun story.
I enjoyed this book. I Didn’t get bored, but excitement was extremely lacking. The haunted bridge doesn’t even have a ghost, it’s a scarecrow. The cover picture makes it look like the mystery revolves around the bridge, but it doesn’t. One of the first things Nancy finds out is the ghost is fake. The mystery itself was decent, but still I would recommend to anyone going through the original series.
"Gee Nancy, that's swell!" It was on my shelf so I decided to see if Nancy Drew still held the same allure as an adult as she did when I was a kid. She did! A fun and easy read, but what was interesting was the level of vocabulary compared to children's books today; the vocabulary was much more advanced and educated. Sad. Ned is still a dufus though.
Jag och mor diskuterade någon gång huruvida Kitty går i skolan eller inte och jag kom inte på att jag hade läst någonting om det. Ned gör det, det nämns ganska regelbundet. I den här boken pratade George med sin mor över telefonen och då sa modern att George skulle vila upp sig så att hon skulle vara pigg till att skolan startar. Nu är ju bara frågan hur det är med Kitty...
Is there anything that Nancy can't do? Even after spraining her hand, she manages to bring down a ring of jewel thieves, reunite star-crossed lovers and even win a golf tournament. Can I be her when I grow up?
sometimes u just gotta read some nancy drew.
Classic Nancy!
Okay so this book had the first case of mansplaining that I've seen in an Nancy Drew book.
I was so amused and proud every time Nancy just walked away from this guy instead of entertaining his ego.
I feel like his purpose in the story (besides being the most irritating ever) could have been better.
Like, it turns out he's not actually a bad guy but they think he's a jewel thief and a forger when he just turns out to be a stalker and a liar.
Also there's not a thing on god's green earth that Nancy cannot do.
Nancy could do it with her eyes closed.
I love Nancy Drew so I may be a little biased. However, I really did love this book. This particular book was one of the few that I have not yet read. Nancy Drew went with her dad to a resort to catch a gang of jewel thieves. Nancy solves the mystery in the end, of course. I will not spoil the mystery. The book was really well written. Carolyn Keene always does a great job of making the mysteries interesting and making the characters relatable. I would recommend this book to elementary schoolers of any age/grade.
I wasn’t expecting much out of this book, but this mystery was actually pretty good. The writing was not as archaic as I thought it would be. Only one use of queer (for strange) and gay (for happy). I’m going to slowly read through the books I own (about a dozen), because it is nice to revisit your childhood once in a while.
Overall this mystery seemed a bit lackluster to me. The "ghost" was quickly unmasked as a simple scarecrow, Barty was a disappointing (and annoying) red herring, and the main mystery of the jewelry thieves was less than exciting. Honestly, there was more golf than mystery, and golf is not all that interesting.
The mystery was good. It ended up happily ever after. I liked that. I liked the way Mr. Drew’s mystery connected with Nancy’s mystery. I did not like the ‘funny’ stalker behavior from Barty. A sign of the times I guess, but I’m glad it is so overt. It is kinda hopeful to see we have come this far.
Another mystery with a happy ending!
Enjoyable book for young girls.
I do remember reading this one as a child, especially her playing golf with her injured hand. Great memories!
It really is fun to have the goal to read all of the Nancy Drew Mystery books.
honestly nancy drew is such a life model. the classiest lady teen.
i love it........
I had forgotten how Nancy is soooo good at EVERYTHING! And so modest about it. I can see why 10 year old me loved these books. Reading it again was a nice bit of nostalgia.
There seemed to be less happenings with the mysteries and more about all the sports activities— too much description about the golf tournament.
I'm not going to tell you whether the bridge was really haunted or not because I don't want to spoil it for you.
This isn't the best Nancy Drew book but its an ok read. It focuses on golf a lot. It made me realize i never really noticed how "perfect" at everything they make her.
