https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3830.A_Taste_for_Death
I wasn't gripped from the beginning of P.D. James' Taste for Death, but I'm happy I continued reading. I felt more and more engaged as the story unfolded. To me, that more than made up for the slow beginning. This was an enjoyable and intelligent mystery. This was my first time reading P.D. James, but I'll look for more of her work. 3.75 stars.
This had more twists than the average P.D. James novel. The action really picked up in the last hundred pages. James pays a lot of attention here to providing complete arcs for minor characters, which is a nice touch. The book doesn't just end when the detectives figure out who the murderer is. The characters continue to make choices, trying to make the best of their circumstances, and we get to explore the effects of all these actions. It's even poignant. Good stuff.
The edition I was reading was a TV tie-up, with faces of two actors who played character parts in the dramatization of the novel and it was 552 pages long.Paul Berowne who is an MP and a former cabinet minister is found dead in a church, with his throat slit with his own razor, along with fellow victim, Harry Mack, a homeless tramp.
According to me the whole matter could and should have been condensed to a maximum of 350 pages.I like my mystery novels with a liberal dose of clues and twists.
In the meantime she takes whatever time she needs to set the scene of the crime (a sortof worse-for-wear All Saints Margaret Street, translated to a seedy neighborhood around Paddington Basin, near Paddington Station) and to introduce an incongruous pair: a spinster church lady, whose preoccupation with church vestries and high church ritual have not diverted her from Matthew 19:14, and her forsaken, independent eight-year-old protector.
Some people have time for it; others don’t.After that, the spinster and the eight-year-old will largely vanish until the denouement, after which (to her credit) James sorts them out in a way more realistic than heart warmingly satisfying.
Another Dalgleish novel by P.D James, which means a clever plot, a couple of murders, and some character development of Dalgleish and his team. This one surprised at the end, with the murderer going on a vengeful spree that threatens one of Dalgleish's team. I like this series, and this is a solid addition.
I'm a big fan of James, and of her lovely Dalgliesh in particular.
Her hair, which looked as if it had been inexpertly permed, was pulled back at the sides but frizzed over the high forehead rather in the poodle-like fashion of an Edwardian.
The scrolls of the ears flat against the sides of the skull were so large that they looked like abnormal excrescences.
96)The flesh seemed to have slipped from the bones so that the beaked nose cleft the skin sharp as a knife edge while the jowls hung in slack, mottled pouches like the flesh of a plucked fowl.
James' detective, Adam Dalgliesh, is apparently a poet (we are told this again and again) but we never see him writing or read any of his verse.
Maybe these are present in other Dalgliesh books.James is a fine writer, but she used one narrative tool in this book of which I'm not a huge fan.
It seems these are present just to advance the whodunit aspect of the book.
That's a fine tool to use, but it appears overused here.
It got to be a bit much.This was a fine book, but I'm not sure I'll read more of P.D. James.
Perhaps classic murder mysteries are just not my genre. I found this book PAINFUL to read. For me it was predictable, boring and totally unsuspenseful. I never came to care about the characters. There were endless paragraphs of physical description, mostly about furniture. Ugh! The emotional breakdowns at the end were beyond unrealistic. I'm not sure how people like this stuff, but obviously they do, so what do I know?
I gave it 3 stars because of the writing that is beautiful, but I would prefer only 2 stars because it's becoming boring because of too many details
Couldn't even read this on the plane with no other books on me. I watched soccer on the tv instead. SOCCER was the better option, folks. Frankly finding it hard to understand why this woman is considered such an amazing mystery writer. The fourth time they reentered the church and the light coming through the windows was given four paragraphs I knew this wasn't for me.
First read this on publication in 1986, having read all the preceding Adam Dalgleish series avidly. I stopped after this one! A superb writer, with great descriptive powers and psychological insight into her wide range of characters, the increasingly morbid descriptions of murders, etc, became distasteful, as if she felt the need to match her more gruesome competitors. Also, beneath her insights lies a nasty contempt for the lives of those without sufficient class/breeding, and this seems not just to be a realistic view given to particular characters, but her own basic view of humanity. A shame.
PD James has lingered a lot.
She delves so much on each scene, it becomes really boring at times.
She succeeds in involving you in her characters.
You can understand her characters and all makes sense eventually.The mystery wasn't ground breaking.
When the end came, it was quite predictable.This could have been a good read, if it wasn't so long and descriptive.
Accepting that the intentions were honourable, the editors should have intervened to make it more crisp, as a mystery need be.
This was the second book I'd read in the Adam Dalgleish series.
This time, I got through it.
The primary story involved the finding of two dead people in a church vestry by an older female parishioner and a young boy she had befriended.
Dalgleish and his sidekicks go on to investigate the complex scene to discover whether it was murder, suicide, and the many people who might have been involved.
I wouldn't recommend this particular story to new readers of P.D. James.
Save it for a time when you've gobbled up other stories of hers.
This is #7 of the Adam Dalgliesh cop-poet mysteries series (and I think the first mystery that I have read by the very prolific PD James).
While I think having the protagonist be both a cop and published poet is interesting (from a character development perspective), I found the two elements to be grating at times (e.g., when Adam goes off on wordy, literary tangents, or the author gives long descriptions of Victorian architecture, etc).
However, I did find the plot itself to be pretty good, with a few twists and turns along the way, and I would definitely read another mystery story by PD James.
This is a superbly clever crime novel.
While the who and how around the murder of a former minister and a tramp found in the vestry of a neglected church is interesting and satisfying, what's sets the book apart is the intelligence and subtlety with which the author draws her characters.
Usually even well plotted crime novels depend on a coterie of stereotypes who collectively ham it up for the readers in various wince worthy ways.
With this novel I came for the thrills of murder most gruesome but stayed for the wonderfully developed characters.
Will definetly read more of this series.
As always, PD James crafts her characters with such richness and psychological depth, that the story line almost becomes irrelevant.
Always loved Inspector/commander Dalgliesh, also on screen.
P D James writes such amazing prose. This is a very dense novel with murder very much in the background and the focus being on the people involved with the case. Mostly upper class British types who have much to hide and unhappy police officers.
The past is indeed another country.
I though it was a good book
A very good mystery. But the author goes again and again into some sort of psychological analysis of each and every word, look and gesture of each character over and over again. Seemed excessive and made the book too long.
It's a bit like not giving up on visiting your alcoholic brother, though you know he's most likely going to start sober and be drunk and unreliable by the time the visit draws to a close.I do like P.D. James quite a bit, but I love Agatha Christie.
With James's mysteries, even the best ones, you never know, and can never trust, where the plot is going: there might always be a new element added right before the end that completely twists the path of the story.
So there is no element of suspense - and you kind of want that in a mystery novel, right?
Back when my cable company had the wonderful Ovation channel, I watched an hour long show from the 70s about Agatha Christie.
Not because I like Christie; I don't but because as an English major, I felt obliged to watch it (does anyone else feel this way?).
One of the people interviewed on the show was P.D. James.
Her comments about Christie vocalized why I didn't like Christie (I couldn't quite explain why I didn't like her).
Because of this, I picked up A Taste for Death at a used book sale.A Taste for Death isn't James' best book.
It is still a good book with wonderful characters.

I don't know how I missed PD James's books in my earlier mystery reading--a preference for amateur detectives, I guess. This is an excellent police procedural, if not perfect. The characters are much more real and well-rounded than Agatha Christie, say, and part of the interest is how their personalities and choices serve the same purpose as red herrings did in earlier mysteries. Still, more real doesn't mean completely real, and she sacrifices some of the reality--particularly of the minor or weak characters--for the sake of taking the story where she wants it to go. But I will read more.
Long, long, long. A quote from the next book I picked up would be good advise for the author and editors or A Taste for Death."A good tale moves with a dreamlike speed from event to event, pausing only to say as much as is needed and no more." Introduction to Fairy tales from the brothers Grimm by Philip PullmanQuotable:This had been followed by a sense of personal outrage, an emptiness and then a surge of melancholy, not strong enough to be called grief but keener than mere regret, which had surprised him by its intensity.
Not my favorite of the Dalgliesh series but wonderful description. Less focus on Adam and more on Kate, who has just been added to the special investigative team. The climatic scene with Kate and her grandmother is highly contrived, yet moving nonetheless. Kate is propping her grandmother (just mugged the day before)on the toilet while held hostage by the novel's murderer when Kate learns for the first time the story of her mother and father.
PD James writes good mysteries, yet for me, her writing lacks compassion. I get caught up in the mystery but then like her protagonist I find myself becoming detached, unemotional, just doing my job. Doing my job like a consummate professional, intellectually challenged, persevering, robotic, searching for clues, trying to solve puzzles. But then people matter more than the puzzles. Which leaves me intellectually stimulated, yet empty ...like a heartless poet.
Convoluted who-dun-it, but James' detailed British descriptions and references were trademark. Occasionally I wished for more brevity, but more often I could appreciate the richness of visual or sensual detail provided by the author and the intellectual complexity of the plot compared to many contemporary mystery novels. I see why P.D. James has the reputation she does and will read more by her.
PD James is one of my favorite fiction authors. Her ability to craft a mystery is remarkable. Establishing setting and characters is fundamental to the genre of narrative and she does it intentionally and as well as anyone. I have even incorporated some of James's comments on writing into my hermeneutics lectures. Good novel, great novelist.
