https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1492250.Sleepers_Of_Mars
Pretty average collection of Wyndham stories, mildly enjoyable but not up to his usual standards I think. There's only five stories in here - more novelette/novella length than typical shorts, with three of them concerned in some way with space exploration, whether of Mars or Venus. One of the others ("The Third Vibrator") is the worst of the lot and pretty dire really, but it's balanced out by the best, a creepy Venusian alien of terrible hunger in "Invisible Monster".A collection for Wyndham completists more than anything else, I think.
This one hasnt specifically dated - designs of things arent hard and fast (except the one difference between the Russian and English rockets - 3 vs 4 fins) and the story itself is sound - it doesnt matter what nation you come from on earth, when you make a mistake that big on another planet, you have to face the consequences)"Worlds to barter" It's 1945, and a scientist with his assistant is performing some experiments when they are rudely interrupted by a crash next door.
However there is something invisible inhabiting the ship and one of the three friends is killed.
A bit 'Boy's Own' for me but nevertheless quite imaginative. Early work, I believe.
For those of you not aware John Wyndham published a number of books under the name John Bunyan, these were his less favorite novels.
For a long time despite loving his work I avoided these books as if the author didn't like them I felt I should respect that.
This book conned me by publishing under his proper name that and the fact the first short story was a sequel put this book at a disadvantage.
The stories are however good and somewhat different to the other compilations which I have read.
I probably won't buy a Bunyan book again but wouldn't feel too bad at being conned again.

1939 Retro-Hugo novella nominee.Gave it approximately 1/4 of the way through.
Nothing very interesting happening.
Characters aren't interesting me, the science doesn't seem to be thought through at all (I know it's unfair to judge very harshly - it IS 1938).
Here's my favorite quote: "But you don't want 0.5 of a mile more.
Man, that's an awful lot.
I'd say that 0.1 or even 0.10 will give us all the lead we'll need over that distance." 0.1 or EVEN 0.10!!!
Maybe it's going somewhere.....
but with time running short, and with nothing grabbing me yet, I'm moving on.
Spoilery thoughts on all the novellas here:http://ciaracatscifi.blogspot.com/201...
I only read the title story, "Sleepers of Mars." I haven't yet gotten to the others, but when I do I'll write a review of them as well.Sleepers of Mars is a great story. It's got all of the good stuff of science fiction, exploring a new world, the mystery of abandoned cities, and then, of course, the terror that comes from making a horrible mistake on another planet. The ending was chilling. I really liked it.
If nothing else, these five short stories are an intriguing look into the early career of one of the greatest science fiction writers of the 20th century. I particularly enjoyed "Worlds to Barter" and "The Man From Earth".
Mediocre.
How eerie that in 1933 a science fiction author writes a story about weapons of mass destruction, that create deserts no less.
