https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17306293-shift
And of course you’ve got to read the damn flashback, because if you don’t you may not completely grasp the full ramifications of the ending.
I know Donald is supposed to be a sympathetic character because he was duped and deceived, but let’s face it, he purposely tried to stay uninformed.
I think he’s one of the biggest, redundant and whiney, woobie characters I’ve read in a long time.
It probably didn’t help that in Mission’s scenes, Howey spends long passages describing life in the Silo one more time (like I didn’t get enough of that in Wool?)Solo – His story is very sad.
Unfortunately Howey's skills at character-building leave much to be desired and ultimately drags down the entire series.Here's some of the ways Howey fails at writing characters: he never tells us what anybody looks like.
Anna wants Donald to herself because we're told...and so on.As the main character Donald is as bland as they come, showing no particular intelligence or personality to distinguish himself from the other cast members, who themselves have no distinctive personalities.
It's disappointing and as a contrast i'd recommend Steven King's 'The Stand' as an example of the apocalypse done right with solid world-building and well drawn characters we come to love or hate.
Shift, as the impressive science fiction follow up to Wool, proves that Hugh Howey can write - and write well.
This is a prequel, but is, in my opinion, better read after Wool in order to not destroy the unique aspects of reading Hugh Howey's first work.
That said, I will recommend all serious readers give this book a go after they've tried Wool.
I do love quality science fiction and while I'm lacking something to fully capture and describe about the depth and lack of superficiality or immaturity in this novel I cannot find it.
Like Wool, this book tells a fantastic story for the first 2/3 - in this case, I really did love the way the conspiracy built piece by piece before your eyes, and I enjoyed slowly putting it together with a lot of "OMG" moments.
Those chapters seemed to serve no purpose but to fill space and they just bogged down the story, after a while I was just skipping through to get back to Silo 1.Finally, the biggest disappointment here was that Howey was as devoted in this book as he was in Wool to forcing a happy ending.
PARANOID RANT NEAR THE END WITH SLIGHT SPOILER!The second volume of Howey's Solo trilogy takes us back to the origin of the silos and introduces a few good guys - Donald in particular - a few bad guys - Thurman although we are not sure until Dust exactly how evil he is - and some ambiguous characters - Anna (well, you'll need to read Dust to see how this turns out).
It is truly a sorry affair that  most sequels just do not turn out right. Well, alright,  not most. Some. Can we settle on  a lot ? I can start naming now,(The sequel to Blood Red Road, Metro 2034...)and I am sure you can carry on with this list to eternity. In fact, please carry on in the comments! I would really love to find out  what sequel drove you mad .So basically, I think we can draw the conclusion that  you pretty much have to be J.K. Rowling not to mess up the sequels. So am I surprise
you pretty much have to be J.K. Rowling not to mess up the sequels.
I don't really know where to begin with this book, or frankly - 
a sequel to a mind-blowing book
I can't think of a book that has tortured me quite so lately.If I had to compare it with 
you will probably get sorely depressed from just touching the book
, much less reading it.(Hint: I totally did.)Unfortunately, I can't find much more to say about this book.
Evelina, dear friend, WHY DID YOU NOT DNF??
REVIEW SUMMARY: The sequel trilogy to the best seller, Wool Omnibus, which takes a leap back in time to show how the chaos started.BRIEF SYNOPSIS: A silo architect finds out too late what he’s been building, loses track of his wife and memories, and must uncover the secret behind the silo in order to make everything right.MY RATING: 3.5 starsMY REVIEWPROS: Strong beginning; empathy for major characters; challenging philosophical themes about war and sacrifice to survive as a human race.CONS: Third Shift (Book Three) slowed the story way down with minor revelations and sparse action.BOTTOM LINE: While the first half gave hope that this sequel could surpass Wool Omnibus, the story went downhill from there.
Yes, it's nowhere near as good as its predecessor, the excellent _Wool_.
But I did read it straight through, and with no regrets.What Shift does well is provide context and explanations for much of the culture and history (or lack thereof) that we saw in Wool, and that's cool.
The third is the story of one of the sort-of-unwitting creators of the silos, from the project's founding through his repeated thaws from suspended animation to address crises in the silos, up to the events ending Wool.
Generally, unlike in Wool, so much makes no sense here that it destroys immersion in the book.
But the story is still great, very well written and keeps us tense all the time.
The story leads us to the time of construction the silos and is accompanied by the main figure congressman Donald, who gets the task of the president to make drafts for silos.
But this job will bring him something bigger than except for him in the future.
His whole world will only break up in the future in one day.
The writer leads us to a terrible future in which individuals are determined to do everything to manipulate people with some strange motives.
One thing is certain, Donald must change it all.
I think that every few pages I was going "OMG!"This book is more of a prequel to Wool but should definitely be read after Wool to prevent spoilers from ruining the story.
It plunged me right back into that world and I started once again dreaming of living in a silo every night.
Something in this book is definitely speaking to part of my brain.Looking forward to reading Dust.
Last night, for instance, my husband mentioned to me if I thought there would be fewer uprisings in the Silo if they had more reading material, maybe some fun magazines like Silo Living?
Frica viscerală, teroarea îmbibată de paranoia care va schimba omenirea pentru totdeauna.Deși pe Goodreads cartea apare ca fiind a doua parte a seriei, acțiunea acestui volum urmărește evenimentele care au condus la refugierea ultimilor oameni în adâncurile Pământului și continuă povestea Silozului din perspectiva celor care l-au creat.
ei bine, acum am aflat și nu sunt prea convinsă de plauzibilitatea evenimentelor: (view spoiler)[ cum se poate să distrugi planeta pentru că ți-e teamă de o posibila armă devastatoare a unei alte națiuni?
cum pot trei-patru oameni să-i convingă pe alții că e mai bine să ucizi miliarde pentru a salva câteva mii?
Very savvy of the author to pen Shift after releasing Wool.
The latter scooped me in immediately, whereas Shift took somewhat longer to lure me into its clutches.
To those of you who want your Wool-ish questions answered, you can find them in Shift.You will learn how the silos came into being and why.
Shrinks are in charge of the insanity (I love that!).
Silo 1 - responsible for humanity's very survival, population control management by lottery, the deep freeze, going dark, time becoming strange.
And as always, the up top, the mids, and the down deep, only this time with shadows.
Loving the story!
I would have expected him to be a bit depressed but the way he broke down didn't make much sense, his love for Helen never really rang true especially when he was lusting after Anna so much.
Why was Donald cool with destroying Silo 40 when he had such a hard time shutting down Silo 12?
It was just weird how he had no problem killing the people in 40 when he basically had a break down for the doing the same thing to 12.-What happened to the remaining people inside Silo 12?
-Why didn't Jimmy die when Donald shut his Silo down with that poison white fog?-What happened to the rest of the world?
Although we get nearly all our questions answered and some fascinating tales are told, "Shift" lacks a couple of properties that made "Wool" such a great read.
This may be due to my non-engagement with the main character and my wish to get through those sections efficiently and quickly, but this volume did seem to hold a greater precedence with plot and pace rather than having those small moments interspersed between.But despite these criticisms "Shift" is still a great SF read and complements "Wool" by answering a lot of the questions that came about in that novel.
Iš tikro, tai šita knyga, kaip pasakojimas, labai nukentėjo nuo to, kad tai yra priešistorė.
Ir jei tai būtų tik priešistorė, tai ma ją šunės, bet kad ji dar nemažai persidengia ir su pirmąja knyga, ir tada gaunasi, kad skaitytojas faktiškai antrą kartą skaito apie tą patį.
Na ir kas, kad iš kitos perspektyvos, kad pasakotojas kitas, vis tiek galų gale viskas susiveda į tą patį argumentą – antras kartas.
Man kaip ir patiko ją skaityti, bet kita vertus, nemanau, jog jos neskaičius ir po pirmos dalies perėjus prie trečiosios, pasakojimas labai nukentėtų.
Dare I say I'm pleased to be able to see his evolution as a writer through the entire series; as well-written as all of the Wool books were from the start, I think in Shift he takes his craft to a whole different level.I might disagree with a couple of characters' motivations toward the end of the book, but they make sense logically--if anything, I'm transposing what I would do in those situations without putting myself in that person's shoes.
But if you like well-paced writing, gobs of suspense, fleshed-out characters, and a fearless author, I'd highly recommend starting with Wool I and seeing where it takes you.
While the writing is quite good, I never felt it was as compelling or interesting as Wool.
Shift felt more like an addendum to Wool than a novel that could stand by itself.
I enjoyed getting some answers about what happened in Wool, yet it wasn't enough to keep me interested.My biggest problem was that I didn't care about the characters, especially the main character, Donald.
Before the silos came into play, Donald was a senator.
Then he did something later in the book that completely turned me off toward him, not that it was much of a leap.I would recommend this book to those who have read Wool and have an interest in reading Sand.
The Shift is comprised of three parts: Legacy, Order and Pact, which if you have read Wool, promises answers to some of your questions.
It is true that some of these characters did come across as mere shadows but I cannot help but get the sense that maybe that was the point.In brief, Legacy tells us about what is happening in the world prior to the destruction we have seen and know from Wool.
Here in silo 1 is where the main players come across as one dimensional, mere shadows; more like marionettes dancing to a tune orchestrated by others.
It is in the future that we meet new people, living their lives in other silos, engineered by those original members of The Legacy.
Negaliu sakyti, kad man patiko, ką toje priešistorė perskaičiau, mat trūko logikos ir motyvo, bet bendras suvokimas apie trilogijos pasaulį pasipildė ir tuo likau patenkinta.
Galbūt dėl to, kad pirmąją dalį skaičiau prieš metus ir daug kas pasimiršo, bet nekamavo jausmas, kad šitai jau žinau ir neįdomu, kamavo tik jausmas, kad štai šitai siejasi su pirmos knygos įvykiais – žiūrėk kaip faina.Turint omenyje, kad ir „Šachta“ man nenunešė proto, tai „Pamaina“ plius minus išlaikė liniją ir suskaičiau vietomis labai įdomiai, moralu likau pusiau patenkinta ir susigundžiau tęsti skaitymą.
Donald, as both architect and congressman, seems rarely to think like either, with his main action being going with the flow while wondering what is really going on.I suppose if you're big conspiracy buff, that can make for a compelling narrative, but I'm not and it didn't for me.
Because these people who think through all forward consequences would never foresee that being a problem with their amnesia pills, when a simple photo ID would solve the problem.Additionally, Donald continually gets awakened to solve rebellion problems in other silos but then does very little to solve them, instead spending his time moping around trying to uncover "the truth." And to this reader, at least, the rebellion narratives in the other silos merely repeated the much stronger realization of rebellion in Wool.
I got this in audio because the third book in Silo was BOGO on Audible, and now I'm not sure I care to read Dust (Wool, #9).
I loved Wool Omnibus (Silo, #1) and thought I would be interested in reading the prequel, the "how it all happened in the first place" story, but in the end, not so much.
I actually think finding out the hows and whys do a disservice to the strange and isolated world we read about in Wool and I'm sorry I read this book.
It actually might have been more interesting to focus on him in a My Side of the Mountain kind of treatment.
More to the point, why have canned cat food that's edible 100s of years after the occupation of the silo.
Come to think of it, why are there cats there in the 1st place give the way the silos we occupied!?!?!- Why didn't Donald piece it all together in the 2 years he was given The Order to read, or at least ask a couple of questionsOther things are frustrating too, like the long pointless dialogues (e.g. between Donald and his wife).It was things like this that got me frustrated, but at the same time I wanted to read on......
"Silo", der erste Teil dieser Reihe, hat mich gut unterhalten, zwar mit einigen Schwächen, aber das störte mich nicht weiter, da die zu erzählende Geschichte gut und spannend war.In "Level", dem zweiten Band dieser Trilogie, erfahren wir als Leser nun die Vorgeschichte zu den Dingen, die in "Silo" passiert sind.
Wir als Leser haben kaum etwas Neues erfahren und das Wenige, was einem noch nichts gesagt hat, hätte diese Geschichte nicht gebraucht um erzählt zu werden.
Ja, dieser wird objektiv betrachtet geliefert, aber für das, was passiert, ist mit dies zu fadenscheinig und unwirklich.
As before the action weaves between several different story lines and times, each told from the point of view of a different full fleshed character.Shift and Wool remind me a bit of the TV series Lost -- the self-contained world and its mysteries slowly unraveled -- but where Lost just piled on mysteries with no intention of answering them, these books wrap up satisfyingly.No idea if there's going to be a third installment, and once again I can't imagine how the same freshness could be generated, but this time around I won't be as surprised if he does!
Very disappointed in this book after the great first part in the trilogy. Very dull and tedious.
I simply couldn't finish this, it seemed to go on and on and on with over descriptive paragraphs and pages of nothingness.I didn't realise Shift was the prequel to the Wool Omnibus, I had loved Wool and wanted to know what was next instead I was plummeted into the "before".
But it was tedious reading, I lasted 250 pages and just had to stop.
I had such high hopes, this was just too wordy and perhaps not so clever going back on the timeline rather than forwards.
I'm unsure if I will read the last Omnibus "Dust" now.
Thanks to Hugh Howey, now I can add "Apocalypse where everybody is living underground" to my "I am afraid of list".
Here it goes:"I am afraid of" List (in order of whatever):1.
3. Apocalypse where everybody is living underground.
7. (To Be Filled)9.
(To Be Filled)Comparing my list to the "Fears of 2015", my list is not that impressive.
Going back to "Shift" - it wasn't impressive.
If this was the first book of the series, I doubt if I would have read further.
What book is next in the series?
The order of Howey books is a mind-fuck...
prequel to Wool, showing how the world descended to the Silos as part of (view spoiler)[deliberate plan to be shoot first in the use of a nano-tech weapon and preserve humanity's legacy until the fallout clears (hide spoiler)]main protagonist, Donald, appears as an every-man character who stumbles into the centre of every piece of action and this is my main issue with the story. He doesn't have any strong characteristics or motivation yet so much of the plot is constructed around himfinds himsel


Shift makes me wish you could go higher than five stars in rating books. It's the prequel to Wool, which I liked so much I gave it five stars. And I liked Shift better than Wool.
