https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111222.The_Life_of_Elizabeth_I
Her interest in philosophy and history was enduring, and throughout her life she would try to set aside three hours each day to read historical books.Lord Burghley had said of her, 'She was the wisest woman that ever was, for she understood the interests and dispositions of all the princes in her time, and was so perfect in the knowledge of her own realm, that no councillor she had could tell her anything she did not know before.'Meaningful PassageFor forty-five years, 'though beset by divers[e] nations', Elizabeth had given her country peace and stable government — her greatest gift to her people.
This was a really good place to start.Alison Weir is probably my favorite historian - she doesn't make as many easily-disputable claims in her books, like Antonia Fraser, and her writing has clarity and a nice humorous touch that appears every so often.
Elizabeth "contained so many inaccuracies it would be impossible to list them all" (but she does anyway) and The Golden Age "is another historical travesty, made with only the sketchiest regard for the facts and little understanding of the period." I wonder if Alison Weir has ever watched that HBO series, The Tudors.
I would pay to be able to watch something like that with Alison Weir.
OK, here is my advice: if you want to read about the Tudors read this author; read Alison Weir.
Read her non-fiction books.
She is clear and she knows how to tell the story so it reads as fiction, but every little detail is 100% true!
I believe that the more you know the more you will appreciate this book.
(If you start knowing a lot you can stuff even more into your head…..) I do not mean that to appreciate this book you must have previously read on the topic.
Because Alison Weir makes Elizabeth's life so darn interesting.
Talk about having a disfunctional family.Your Dad marries your Mom when he's still technically married to his first wife.
No matter; your Dad is the King of England.
Your Dad gets bored with your Mom and she looses her head (literally).
Your Dad remarries, and yet again a few more times.
Your younger brother becomes King and he has a few ideas of his own about how you are supposed to pray to God. Your elder sister gets her turn being Queen and she isnt too keen on you or your religion either.
Such is the exciting life of Elizabeth Tudor; Queen of England for 43 years.
I don't like nonfiction as a rule.
But this was one of those rare nonfics that read like a piece of fiction and even though the book is a brick, I read the whole thing in under four days.
It kept my attention from start to finish.
The medieval history of the English monarchy is interesting but not a subject I read about frequently.
Alison Weir (whose name I always spell weird and have to edit) is deserving of the acclaim she has earned to date because she provides information AND entertains.
Most nonfiction authors don't have that magical ability.
I look forward to reading more from this author.
Probably still the best Biography of Elizabeth, despite the 17 years since it's publication. Weir at the top of her game. A must read for anyone interested in the Tudors. The book that ignited my love of the history of the English Monarchy.
Without a shadow of a doubt, the greatest English monarch and Alison Weir guides us through this golden time from under the oak tree at Hatfield Palace in 1558, to her passing at Richmond in 1603.The level of research of contemporary documents, state papers and the almost twenty pages of bibliography provide a most intimate and extraordinary insight into the reign of good Queen Bess.
Published back in 1998, I just wonder why it has taken me so long to finally read this book.N.B. Certainly not averse to a good conspiracy theory, and there are many from the sixteenth century, I notice that a certain American writer of fiction, Steve Berry has just had published by Hodder, a book entitled 'The King's Deception'.
But perhaps it was never meant to, and for anyone drawn to Elizabeth as an individual, it is essential reading – meticulous in its research, and very well written.Weir gives us a splendid picture of the Queen as she navigated the shoals of potential marriage alliances, plots against her and rivalries at Court.
Yet I should have liked to read less of the interminable marriage negotiations – after all, we know from the beginning that they came to naught – and more of the extraordinary England of Elizabeth that still dazzles us today.The fact remains that this book is a wonderful work of scholarship.
I find I really enjoy Alison Weir's style of writing history and biography: easy to follow and detailed/descriptive without becoming dry.
While I am not an über history buff who checks and cross-checks the list of sources, I found that her biography of Elizabeth I was entertaining and factual as far as I can tell - what I read matched up with everything I knew about Elizabeth previously, and was told in a new style that I found refreshing.
Alison Weir provided me with that, and although I have other Elizabeth I tbr-s on my list, I quite loved this one.
More than a man, less than a woman.Queen Elizabeth the First has always been one of my favorite historical figures.
She ruled for over 40 years and is likely the most well-known female sovereign in the Western tradition.At 25 years old, she was at last in control of her destiny, and having lived in one kind of constraint or another for her whole existence so far, she was determined to preserve her independence and autonomy.Liz was not a particularly friendly person, but her charisma was definitely present in her daily interactions with the court.
A good biography or non-fiction book should show both sides or "who knows what she really was thinking" but not "here is what she was thinking" or the author quoting her opinion of Elizabeth being silly over the marriage thing and saying "what was wrong with her?" I believe Elizabeth was brilliant in playing the marriage game, not a needy, I need a man, my womb hurts from not having a child, weeping kind of woman.
I'm not saying she didn't want to be loved or have children, but, weak....no, I don't see it.
After we got through that part of the book, it got interesting.
I absolutely LOVE this book!
While Starkey writes with a pompous style that seems to scream "I am the one and only expert on all things about Tudor England", Weir comes straight out and says that, aside from predetermined fact, she offers theories about what may have happened.
Also, I may be naive, but I like the fact that Weir says that Elizabeth was most likely a technical virgin.
I honestly believe that she knew that she would have relenquished a lot of her power if she became somebody's (namely Dudley's) mistress.
I emphatically reccommend this book to anybody who enjoys biographies of historical figures.
The cover boasts this book as a member of the New York Times best seller club.
I question how many of the book's purchasers actually read the book in its entirety.
A character map would have greatly helped me keep up with who the Duke of ___ and Lord __ were in 1540 compared to different men with the same names in 1585.
How many different titles/names did Robert Dudley have?
Overall, I enjoyed Wier's account of Elizabeth's life, and I would like to read an actual personal journal kept by Elizabeth herself, if such a document existed.
The author succeeds in conveying the uniqueness of the monarch, the dangers -- foreign and domestic -- that she consistently confronted, the grandeur and extravagance of the royal court, the connivances of courtiers, the jealousies of competing counselors, Elizabeth’s unwavering affection for her subjects, and her people’s reciprocal devotion.Elizabeth was remarkably strong-willed.
Elizabeth knew about Mary’s participation, but resisted repeatedly her councilors’ admonitions to have Mary tried, convicted, and executed.
Only when her life was seriously threatened and King Philip’s anticipated invasion of England seemed imminent did Elizabeth authorize Mary’s trial and execution.I was touched by Elizabeth’s emotional responses to her declining health during the last year of her reign.
The book does a superb job describing the relationships of Elizabeth with intriguing people such as Mary, Queen of Scots (how Mary could have survived so long given her perpetual scheming to overthrow Elizabeth is stunning), Robert Dudley (Leicester), Robert Devereaux.
Overall, an exquisitely written book that brings the character of Elizabeth I to life.
The amount of information available about the Queen allows for such a detailed book that the people and times seem to come to life.
In the end, a book well worth looking at if interested in the times and the people.
Weir’s account of QE1’s final days had me spilling tears.
We also get fascinating glimpses of the nuts and bolts of court life, the ambitions, griping, and jealousies of courtiers, the affairs and sex scandals, the intense religious animosities that gnawed away at the foundations of the State and kept the Queen on guard for her life, the relationships between the Queen and her subjects and how she managed to manipulate everyone to keep everything - court, country and herself - together.The irritations I experienced reading this biography had to do with all the repetitions.
While it is fascinating to learn that Elizabeth Regina had 3,000 dresses and new pairs of shoes made to order every week, I had thought that maybe it would be useful to know a bit about the political world she brought to abeyance during her forty-five year reign of relative peace.
There is entirely too much back and forthing about how she kept suitors at bay and not nearly enough explanation of the geo-political context.
What were her relations with the Irish before the rebellion by Tyrone?
However, in its treatment of anything but her personal relations with court favorites like Dudley and Essex, it is superficial.
Weir takes us on a tour of Elizabeth's life, and talks about her court, her politics, her intrigues, her courting....
Weir usually takes time out to discuss the general conditions of life in the era she's writing about, but this happens a little unexpectedly in two chapters in the middle of the book, instead of setting the scene at the beginning.
There's a lot of talk about her court, and the people who populate it, and discussions of many of the stories that grew up around her reign.
This book is richly detailed in giving the reader an up close and personal view of the characters and their various personalities in addition to the historical detail of their surroundings.
I love how smart, witty and forceful Elizabeth could be but on the other hand, she could be very vulnerable--a perfect balance for a queen IMO.
I love this book but I always hate to see (hear) it end.
She should be the narrator for every biography or historical book...
I always enjoy revisiting this one yearly, sometimes multiple times a year.
Long live Queen Elizabeth I!!!
The book thoroughly covers Elizabeth's friendship/flirtation with the Earl of Leicester, the long saga of Mary, Queen of Scots, and Elizabeth’s negotiations for marriage with various foreign princes, which formed an important part of England’s foreign-policy and balancing act with European powers.Ms Weir excels at organizing and presenting her voluminous material and in painting vivid pictures of life at court.
She quotes liberally from contemporary sources, so the reader “hears” the voices of many of the Court figures, from the Spanish Ambassador to Queen Elizabeth to Sir Walter Raleigh to Mary, Queen of Scots.
The Life of Elizabeth I was an excellent pick: I was amazed by Weir’s scrupulous account and I devoured every single page.
It is my favourite Alison Weir book so far (or maybe tied with The Lady in the Tower).Elizabeth I had many good qualities as well as defects, and, if I have to find one complaint about Weir’s book, is that she tends to justify the queen in every occasion.
While full of details, it is also engaging and easy to read, and in the end you will know more not only about the main events which shaped Elizabeth I, but about the Virgin Queen herself as well.
Partly because of the tight focus on one person rather than six (actually seven, counting Hank), but mostly because Elizabeth I was a hard-ass mf'er and all-around badass.Even at her most ridiculous, she was so much more grounded and responsible than her father.
I don't enjoy descriptions of clothes and tchotchkes, which were very important to Elizabeth, but I understand that many people do.
What a character.Elizabeth was an excellent stateswoman and a courageous ruler.
Mostly, she truly got her people, which is not something that can be said about most rulers, including the current Elizabeth.
Ms. Weir brilliantly captures Queen Elizabeth's fascinating character: her vanity, indecisiveness, and other weaknesses are perfectly balanced by her outstanding intellect, political astuteness, and her dedication to the kingdom and her subjects.
I would like to see more on what the so-called regular people thought about the Queen, but obviously sources of this type must be scarce.It is fascinating to read how weak Elizabeth was in dealing with the three main men of her life, Thomas Seymour, Leicester, and Essex.
Alison Weir draws you in as a reader so close to the life of England's arguably most famous- and one of its most successful- Monarchs, that you really feel as if you are getting to know Elizabeth herself.
If you really want to learn about the Tudor Palaces, Castles and stately homes lived in or visited by Elizabeth, the fascinating politics, drama and intrigue that surrounded her, the love she shared with Robert Dudley, yet could never bring herself to be with him, and the fun, games and tantrums that went on in the private apartments, then this book is exactly what you are looking for.
After having some doubts with Weir's authorship with Mary Boleyn: The Mistress of Kings, I was glad to be reassured with her biography of Elizabeth I of England.I've always loved Elizabeth.
I had watched countless movies with her and the fascination grew from there.I knew of the important facts of Elizabeth's reign, but with this book I got a better look at it.
Weir made Elizabeth come alive again.
Luckily Weir a listed a great bibliography, so I'll be checking out some of those.
This a great biography.
Weir doesn't shy away from Elizabeth's faults, but also praises her achievements.
Elizabeth was able to be the all to so many and brought England in her many years of reign to a place where her people were well cared for, felt beloved by her, and made advancements to position England as a major player in the history of seventeenth century Europe.She was indeed the strength her country needed, a brave and strong monarch who one could not help but feel gave up much happiness and certainly the role of a wife to mother to assure that she alone would be the one to take England forward and guide her through the Elizabethan age.
A brilliant account of Elizabeth's life from her succession to her death.
Elizabeth, after the terrible, bloody reign of her half-sister Mary I, had the enormous task of re-uniting the nation of England, pay back incredible debts, and make people believe in the Tudor's once again.
With her everlasting memory and countless good eyewitness reports from the time, Alison Weir re-creates this incredible womans life and presents it to us in her fantastic, easy-to-read way, and makes me love History and the Tudor period even more.
I am currently at the beginning of this book but I can already tell it is going to be a darn good one.
My fascination with the Tudors has not ebbed and continues with each and every character that is introduced.
Within Elizabeth's court there are many interesting personalities, one being Sir Walter Raleigh, another being Sir Francis Drake.
Loved it from beginning to end.
I've always admired England's most productive and successful monarch, but this book gave me insight into her everyday dealings and WHY she made the decisions that she did.
Loved it!!
Alison Weir has written a superb biography of one of the longest reigning and most influential monarchs in British history.
Her writing style makes it seem like you are reading a novel instead of a work of non-fiction.
The book starts with a brief description of her parents and her childhood, but the bulk of the book concentrates on her 45 year reign as Queen of England.
Both her public and private lives are delved into in great detail, and Weir manages to make Queen Elizabeth come alive.
If you are interested in learning about the Elizabethan Era, I would highly recommend this book.
I really did not like this book. I tried so hard to like it, but I just got upset every single time I had to read the same thing over and over again. I understand that Elizabeth I did not want to get married. I didn't need it repeated to me 5-6 times in one chapter. It felt like there was allot of filler was used to make this book longer.
