https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/470495.All_Over_But_the_Shoutin_
As you might expect, being the rural South, religion figures in this memoir, but it’s gently weaved through his stories covered as a journalist, his personal stories of funerals attended, crosses born.
Sometimes painful to read, softened somewhat through the passage of time.It’s his profound love of his family, his mother, his brothers, aunts, uncles and cousins that is ever-constant this memoir speaks to me, the sense of family, the religion of place, the sense of belonging, this is what connects me to Bragg, the recognition of the holiness of family, be they biological or man-made.
Rick Bragg is a poet who just happens to put everything down in prose.He is a proud Southerner who has found a way to get past his young shame at being poor and uneducated, and has found the noble and courageous qualities in his family and "his people" as he calls his community of Piedmont, Alabama, where he was raised.
His father was a drunk who abandoned the family when he was six, and his mother raised three small sons on welfare and family charity, along with picking cotton, doing rich people's laundry, and cleaning their houses.
Bragg's bloated, melodramatic prose and the massive chip on his shoulder made reading this book a chore.
Perhaps if he had spent less time talking about the great things he's done (and quoting himself, ugh) it might have been a better book.
This thing was fingernails on a blackboard for me.There are moments in this book that are nice, and passages that are beautiful, but they are smothered by the rest of the garbage.
It's obvious from the ratings that a lot of folks really love this book, but I am wholly unimpressed.
This book is FILLED with wonderful imagery and is the memior of New York Times write Rick Bragg.
Here's a quotation: "This is not an important book...
Anyone could tell it, anyone who had a momma who went eighteen years without a new dress so that her sons could have school clothes, who picked cotton in other people's fields and ironed other people's clothes and cleaned the mess in other people's houses, so that her children didn't have to live on welfare alone, so that one of them could climb up her backbone and escape the poverty and hopelessness that ringed them, free and clean."
I am a Yankee (although I now live in the South), and this book darn near killed me. It made me cry just about every time I picked it up. I still get weepy just thinking about how his momma came to New York, or when she stood up to his daddy after pouring out his moonshine and said, "just don't hurt my teeth." Some may find Bragg's writing unbearably over-the-top in its aw-shucks Southernness, but if simple lines like that don't punch you in the gut, you could possibly be made of stone.
All Over but the Shoutin' is a beautiful memoir by Pulitzer-prize winning journalist Rick Bragg as a loving tribute to his mother, and a searing examination of his hard-scrabble upbringing in Alabama.
This is the first book that I have read by Rick Bragg but I'm looking forward to reading more of his works because of his powerful Southern voice.
It chips away a person's dreams to the point that hopelessness shows through, and the dreamer accepts that hard work and borrowed houses are all that this life will ever be."".
I had a distinct sense of "you know, for as much as these books make me dream of the South, I will never fit in there." It's an excellent reminder of how deep everyone's roots run.Bragg's memoir is also excellent as concerns his momma, whom he writes about with such love and tenderness that it's hard not to see her from his adoring perspective.
Claiming to understand Susan Smith's urge to make herself appealing to a rich man to escape her poor millworker family background is "emotionally generous" all right, given that she killed her children to do it.
I know his gravestone just reads Baby Bragg and my momma never mentioned him to us, for thirty years, but carried his memory around deep inside her, like a piece of broken glass.
To actually say something.One of the things that Bragg tells a lot of stories about is drunks.
I read this one awhile back, and I loved it.
I tend to like confessional autobiographies that don't shy away from flaws and shortcomings, and so I tend to be partial to works that are.
Bragg's book is all that and then some--growing up poor in Alabama, small town with the those who have too much and those who have too little, and having to deal with it with the support of his mother.
It's tough writing, gritty, and in your face with no apologies and lots of personal pain.
GREAT!(yeah, I know this was a lame critique, but I didn't know where to begin with this one--so overwhelming and so moving)
characterized by poverty and the abandonment by his very troubled alcoholic father to his early adult life as a reporter and eventually to his work at the New York Times for which he won a Pulitzer Prize.It wasn't just Mr. Bragg's story or the way in which he so skillfully wrote it which really resonated with me; it was the way in which he seemed to be trying to make some sense of his life.
He seemed to believe that the only way to understand HIS life was to try to understand the lives of the people in his family and his community.
This is the second book I have read by Rick Bragg, and I'm sure I would enjoy about anything he writes.
This book honors his Mother, but is more of a memoir, with examples of the articles from his career as a reporter.
Rick acknowledges the motivations that took him from poverty to "respectability".
AP awards and Pulitzer Prizes were one of his motivations, but the desire to "make his Mother proud" was primarily what drove him to excellence in his field.
There will probably be at least 1-2 more of his books to be added to my future reading lists.
minimalist, naturalist, with indeterminate ending - the ending doesn't sit right, but it's a fine essay A young man comes to see his dad for the last time, and they can only communicate through the inanimate objects and old stories, so they can't talk about their feelings. Right, like the dad wanted to or the son could. But the son, many years later, says he is still a prisoner of that last meeting. I guess he should go out more often, but more likely, he was just trying for a good ending.
Onvan : All Over But the Shoutin' - Nevisande : Rick Bragg - ISBN : 679774025 - ISBN13 : 9780679774020 - Dar 329 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1997
If he came out and confessed to deep-seated insecurity that would add some nuance to the read, but Bragg mostly, well, just brags.He has covered some interesting stories, and it's interesting to hear him retell them in the book.
I liked that the father was actually painted in a more nuanced way, with some back story on how his war experience may have affected him, and later with the author admitting he may have some of his father's flaws himself.
I found myself cringing at times, while realizing Bragg himself likely did not intend that reaction in me.Bragg is a great writer, and he has a good story to tell.
There are books you read that not only make you grateful for what you have, but especially for what you haven't, or more correctly what you never thankfully experienced.Rick Bragg, Pulitzer Prize Winner for news editorials, touches you to the bone and breaks your heart ever so silenty with his memoirs of growing up in poverty, alcoholism and abuse on account of the father, but love as you've never read on account of the mother.This is not a rags to riches story but one of rising from the ashes to reveal the truth of oneself and one's family from the hardest of times in the back country of the Appalacians.Beautiful story.
As much as I love Southern literature, I hated this one.
His mother strikes me as a lazy, nasty woman who did not discipline her rotten boys or teach them manners.
The author seems to say, "Hey, look at me, how much better I am than anyone!!!
I'm SMARRRRTTTT!" I got so bored with his writing that if I ever get a hold of this guy, I will choke him.
I mean it.
I actually thought about using the pages as toilet paper, but alas, I used it for kindling instead.
No matter how bad a book is, I could never burn it.
But I came close with this one!
I read this after looking at it sitting on my then boyfriend's bookshelf for years, and never considered it.
In a desperate fit of needing something to read, I picked it up, and it instantly became my favorite book ever.
I don't think it still is--it was more a function of what I wanted at the time.
But for a long time I thought that if people wanted to understand how I felt about my mom they'd just have to read this book.His stories about working as a journalist are interesting too, but it was really his stories of his mom that did it for me.
This is a fantastic memoir from a master storyteller who conjures up a deeply human portrait of a dirty poor white family in the US South.
An eloquent writer, the stories he writes about are vivid and show raw and genuine emotions.I liked how the author recounted his less-than-idyllic childhood in Alabama without dwelling in sentimentality and somehow managed to put some humor in it.
If you like memoirs, love stories from the South or simply enjoy skillfully crafted writing, this book is for you.
You do not hate the time you waste; it evokes a much more passive emotion than that.
You could say it is the Southern version of Angela's Ashes, written by a son in tribute to his mother.Bragg is a "good ole boy" whose narrative voice is as thick and Southern as sweet tea.
He and his two brothers grew up dirt poor in Alabama with a long suffering mother and a ne'er do well father.
It is an old story in many ways with an alcoholic father battling his demons and a mother unable to see her way out of a hopeless situation.
Bragg is forthcoming about his own failed relationships and the demons his father passed down to one of his brothers.
A few weeks ago, I wrote a review of Annie Proulx' "memoir" (er, whine session) "Bird Cloud", where I commented that after reading it, she'd be the very last person I'd care to meet in person. The very polar opposite of that book (and that author's life-of-privilege bitching and moaning) is the exuberantly triumphant, life-affirming "All Over But the Shoutin'". After reading  this  memoir, not only do I want to meet Rick Bragg (its author), I want to spend hours picking his brain, shoot some hoo
memoir, not only do I want to meet Rick Bragg (its author), I want to spend hours picking his brain, shoot some hoops with him, go barhopping, play some Xbox, even (*cringe*) catch some NASCAR action at Talladega, meet his mom, eat grouper sandwiches on the gulf...In short, it's pretty hard not to admire this guy after reading this.
But I almost didn't finish the first half of the book, which was written entirely in folksy dialect--as he later says, rustic witticisms.
That may well be his natural way of speaking, but I wonder if his own family reads this and thinks, yes, that sounds just like Rick, or if they, like me, think it's distracting to pack QUITE so much down home flavor into EVERY sentence.
Twain surely had a southern way of talking and telling a story, but he limited the "rustic witticisms" and reserved the dialect for quoted dialogue.
Published in 1998, I believe, this memoir describes the author's childhood growing up very poor in rural Alabama and his path towards becoming a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist at the New York Times.
I give the author a lot of credit for being honest about himself and his weaknesses (the chip on his shoulder about growing up poor and not having access to opportunities and resources; his bad temper; the way in which he pushed people who cared about him away and just focused on his work), but sometimes it got hard to read the memoir of someone who wasn't particularly nice and who kept talking about the ways in which he wasn't.
I thought this was the best book that I had read in years.
Rick Bragg simply tells the story of his life, his father, mother, and his brothers.
It was not a happy life, but he's not complaining.
It's more like a tribute to his mother, how she just kept going, through often horrible difficult times.
Bragg is a journalist, and how he got into that field could have made a good book all by itself.
While it's about a lot of difficult times, it's a beautifully written story that make your heart glad.
Wish you could get to know the author and his family.
Brash, strong Southern voice, compassionate picture of a mother doing her best to make do for her three boys and an alcoholic father who disrupted their lives.
Written as a reporter, purely autobiographical yet authentic with self-censoring fairness. I will read the others in this series.
Many years ago, this book was basically my introduction to memoirs and southern writing. Rick Bragg writes a fine book here.
Poverty and an abusive alcoholic father are hard to overcome, but with the help of his dedicated, loving and hard working mother and her family, he is able to find a way to a job in journalism writing first for his school paper and then moving up through different papers to the New York Times and even a Pulitzer Prize.
Bragg’s intention seems to be to praise his mother for her cotton picking, laundress, house cleaning, welfare accepting days.
This intention is well done and she is a well deserving woman for all she was put through and helped her son come out on top.
I too am Southern like Mr. Bragg. I love the cadence and melody of a southerner's storytelling. It fills my soul. I am proud if my heritage; the good, the bad, and the horrible. This kind of history creates amazing, visceral stories and truly strong, faithful humans...And of course it can beautiful, strong southern men who love their strong beautiful southern mamas.
I very much liked the beginning of this memoir, Bragg's story of his impoverished childhood in Alabama.
Bragg quickly became someone I couldn't sympathize with, as he talks casually about flitting from one girlfriend to another, like changing clothes, and focusing on his own ambition to be a successful writer.
There is nothing wrong with ambition, but somehow he seems to exude this pride, arrogance and selfishness that quickly turned me off.
He spent a lot of the book quoting from articles he'd written.
Self promotion is an instant turn off so this was not a 4-5 star book for me.
This is actually my second time reading this excellent book.
At the center of this story are the sacrifices of his mother, who was often mistreated by her often-drunk husband, and left for long periods of time with no way to support her children.
There were times she would flee, with children in tow, to her family.
("There would always come a night when she put our clothes in paper sacks and buttoned our coats, begging us not to cry, to shush, baby, we're goin' to see Grandma.") This book, however, is not a pity party.
It's a reflection for Bragg of what drove him, what he values, and the importance of family.
