https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33845744-the-incredible-crime
This is very much in the Golden Age tradition of mysteries, although Austen fans may be interested to know that she wrote her novels at the same writing desk as Jane Austen and that this is the first of four published novels; the others being Haunted Farm (1932), Rude Justice (1936) and The Gobblecock Mystery (1938).
Lois Austen-Leigh’s Uncle Augustus was Provost of Kings College, Cambridge and so she was obviously familiar with the academic setting that she features in this book.Indeed, this novel features two very popular settings for Golden Age mystery novels; combining part of the story in the academic setting of Cambridge and part set in a country house.
With the author being linked to Jane Austen it did make it interesting to read.
There were elements of ‘The Incredible Crime’ that I really really loved and elements that I wasn’t so keen on.
My interest was thoroughly piqued when I learnt that Lois Austen-Leigh was the great-great niece of Jane Austen and like her famous aunt, she can weave a good story together.
Prudence Pinsent, our main character is sassy, bold, beautiful and can swear like a sailor.
Cambridge and life in the college are described to perfection, you really get a true sense of the grandeur and intelligence that walk the corridors.
Despite the fact I felt the book was a little all over the place whilst reading, I did enjoy it.
such promise! cool elements!BUT the romance was enraging - the guy wanted to prove he was her superior in all fronts and the novel lets him. SAD FACE
This was written in 1931 and the author used the lingo of the day, which at times, I found confusing. If I understood the mannerisms and lingo better, I think I would have enjoyed the book more. Its no fault of the author, as she was writing for the audience of her time. The plot was decent and the crime was interesting.
There was a lot of circumlocution about smuggling drugs in the style of all the stories of past centuries, and a lot of exploration of whether it was sporting or not (which, the consensus was that rum or such was all right, but not when drugs), and who was involved, and was it okay if the drugs weren't going to be marketed, and wait really who was involved … I was a bit – pardon the pun – at sea for big chunks of the book.
Sooooo disappointed.
Thought perhaps since it had been exhumed after 70 years and put in a lovely new cover and also the niece of Jane Austen (woo woo, it must be good right?) I'd found a treasure.
And it could have been so good!
Writing actually pretty shoddy.
Pretty lame.
And then the mystery??
(view spoiler)[ One of the main characters is murdered and we never even hear about it cause the newly in love are just so darn happy they don't even mind that their beloved cousin is dead  (hide spoiler)]???
Again, so disappointed.
The classic British mystery bones were there.
(Spoilers)Overall I enjoyed this, but I'm left completely confused by the ending and have no idea who actually did kill Lord Wellende, or if he just died of natural causes.
"...you do that by going down the Cam into the Ouse by Ely, by Denver Sluice into the Wash." Austen must not have been writing for an American audience because unless you actually know the neighborhood or have a map of it before you, you have no idea what the people are talking about or where they are going.
That sort of writing is just plain sloppy.Nor is Austen in any hurry to get things underway.
In Chapter Two, they go for a drive and talk.
Maybe it turns into a brilliantly funny satire in chapter 5.
The story takes place during the time between the World Wars, but politics isn't a driving force of the plot.
So minus points for the fox hunting.
And this would be a good time to say that this novel is a suspense novel, not a murder mystery.
Would I recommend this novel to another reader, definitely yes, but I would also make sure they knew what they were going to be getting.
There are three other mystery novels written by Lois Austen-Leigh but I have no curiosity to track them down and read them.
Found this on the New Book Shelf at the local library, although it was first published in 1931, and since I have recently delved into reading titles from the Golden Age of Mysteries, it seemed perfect.
Most recently I have been reading Nagio Marsh and Patricia Wentworth mysteries in order, and so the time period in England is a familiar and welcome one.
I am not sure I would follow up with Austen-Leigh's other three titles if they are published.
This was her first published book, and one contemporaneous review suggested Austen-Leigh try another type of writing.
I would like to thank netgalley and poisoned pen press for the opportunity to read this book. I was really looking forward to reading this book, with the connections to Jane Austen and the fact that I love stories from the golden age of crime. However, this book was a let down. It was overly descriptive with little plot and I skimmed most of it.
Slightly disappointing in there wasn’t really a great deal of action until the last 30 pages. But an ok read.
Note: I received a digital ARC of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
A strange and rather muddled story about a possible involvement in drug smuggling by the inhabitants of a Cambridge college and a suffolk country estate.
There are a lot of characters, most of whom are not very well developed, and not very much detecting, the solution is not very well done, and very hard to believe.
the descriptions of fox hunting are written with most enthusiasm and convincing detail, and at one point the heroine says she is an admirer of the works of Somerville and Ross.
The author might have been better off attempting something on the lines of The Irish R.M., rather than this very odd and unsatisfactory detective story.
Slightly different to a lot of the British Library Crime Classics I've become accustomed to. But in a good way, I think. The crime sometimes seems nebulous, the focus of the story wanders and pretty much everyone is suspected of something or other at some point, with everything getting wrapped in the last chapter. Which can sometimes be very annoying, but it mostly worked for me in this one.
Some books should remain out of print.
(It’s important to remember here that The Incredible Crime was originally published in 1931, when such matters were seemingly considered quite controversial [so much so in fact that all featured swear words are partially blanked out].)Anxious for a bit of a break from Cambridge life, Prudence decides to visit her cousin, Lord Wellende, at his ancestral pile.
Described in the introduction as follows: "The granddaughter of Jane Austen's favorite nephew, Lois Austen-Leigh purportedly wrote her novels on the very writing desk at which her famous relative penned her masterpieces...
Published in 1931, The Incredible Crime is the first of the four critically acclaimed novels Austen-Leigh published during the Golden Age, that period of crime fiction spanning the period between the two world wars." Quite the remarkable introduction to an author of whom I hadn't even heard!
The novel, sadly, didn't quite live up to my hope of being the next Jane Austen, Barbara Peters or Carola Dunn but it was definitely readable.
I am very much surprized that this book was chosen as it doesn’t represent in any shape or form a good classical crime novel – perhaps the fact that the author was a relative of Jane Austen made all the difference in it's selection.
The introductory chapters are jammed packed with characters and a multitude of settings which means the novel gets bogged down at an early stage.
I would give this book 2 out of 10 and I wouldn't want to read any more by this author.
The Incredible Crime was the first of Poisoned Pen Press's British Library Crime Classic that disappointed me.
Instead it was the convoluted path the mystery took in combination with the bizarre insta-love that the heroine falls into with the Professor (once he has a haircut and gets his teeth fixed), that turned me off.The novel was technically well written, but shallow.
Prudence is also remarkably shortsighted and slightly dim compared to the male characters.
The Incredible Crime was not a horrible novel, but it didn't appeal to me as a woman or a mystery lover.
This is another book re-issued by the British Library as part of the Crime Classics series.
Downton Abbey has proved that being interested in this subject is not exclusive of Great Britain people.
I can accept nostalgia, and for my part I add a particular interest in things British, maybe because I count Jane Austen, Agatha Christie and JK Rowling among my favorite authors.
It's mentioned that Northanger Abbey comes to mind when reading this book.
I would agree and go further to state that the characters remind us of some of beloved Jane Austen's characters.
It could be my problem with humor - that is, failing to notice it when it's supposed to be there - but this book was a huge pile of whut.The characters felt like empty caricatures, a romance appeared out of nowhere, the plot seemed unable to entirely decide if crime is bad or not, and I'm not even entirely sure what happened at the end.
Who knows.Also, who cares.
No one in the book was remotely engaging enough for me to care what happened ot them.
The plot was potentially interesting, but it just sort of drifted off into incoherent nonsense.
This charming, talky mystery was first of all, written in 1931, and secondly, a wonderful period piece.
It has all the elements of suspense, tongue-in-cheek humor, and miscommunication.
There are lovely scenes set in Cambridge and the English countryside.
There are even some stirring scenes of fox hunts and tromps through the woods and marshes.
I enjoyed the leisurely pace of this mystery which reminds me so much of contemporary British mysteries on TV.
This mystery is best read on a lazy summer or winter day when you've nothing to distract you from the flow of the story and the complex plotting.
The beginning of this book started off so well.
A feisty heroine set in amongst the dons of Prince's College, Cambridge -- catnip.
And a good portion of the book is highly enjoyable.
Ms. Austen-Leigh describes her characters and the setting very well.
But then she introduces more characters.
A lot of characters.
And Prudence Pinsent turns out to be not as feisty as introduced (part of the times, I guess).
It was generally an okay book but not as good as the usual ones reproduced by the British Crime Classics.

Like her great-great-aunt Jane Austen, the author writes a witty novel the depicts the lifestyle of a certain specific group--here 2 groups, the somewhat cloistered world of an academic college and the hunting set--with a touch of stereotype and humor and relies heavily on misconceptions and miscommunications. You can read the book for the mystery, the manners or the romance. I didn't guess all the details of the mystery but the general gist of the idea became obvious before the end. The characters are lively and the book moves along. It is too bad the author didn't write more mysteries.
A well-written mystery from 1931, the golden age of crime fiction. Interesting characters, a setting I like (upper-class England and academia to boot - I'm sorry, but I can't help it). Lots of fox hunting, too. Although the build-up is great, the actual revelation of the criminal was a bit of a let-down, unfortunately, but all right, so be it. It seems that Lois Austen-Leigh only wrote four books, and unfortunately the other three have been out of print since the 1930s. Maybe it is time to rectify that?
3.5 stars.
This novel is better thought of as an atmospheric book than a good mystery.
Lois Austen-Leigh sets the scene in Cambridge and Suffolk very well, but there is no one mystery-solving protagonist.
The chapters follow a handful of characters (Miss Pinsent, Prof.
Temple, Mr. McDonald, Capt.
Studde), but we don't dive very deep into any of their characters...just skim along the surface.
The mystery is in the background and Austen-Leigh doesn't follow through on it very well.
Still, it's an amusing book that make me want a long misty walk in the country and to see the spires of Cambridge.
2.5 stars.As a lover of golden age mysteries and Jane Austen, I recently stumbled upon this book and couldn't believe I had never come across it before. I had high expectations for it, but ended up quite disappointed. The book felt very slow and the narrative wasn't particularly cohesive. The mystery was boring and it felt like the actual sleuthing and solution were over and done with in 15 pages. There were legitimately funny moments and the potential for either a fun mystery or a comedy of manners, but they were never developed enough for either to fully materialize.
Overall, a rather charming novel with engaging character portraits and plot lines of a byegone era. However, the first few chapters are a little uncomfortable to read owing to a somewhat strained writing style forcing rapid introduction of several characters and plot lines. Once these introductions have been effected the plot meanders at a gently compelling pace to reveal some unexpected twists and turns. An enjoyable read.
