https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12220.A_Streetcar_Named_Desire
It is amidst this backdrop that begins Tennessee Williams' classic play, A Streetcar Named Desire, which still stands the test of time today and became a classic film featuring Marlon Brando and Jessica Tandy.
Blanche DuBois, fresh off of another failure, has taken a streetcar named Desire to spend the summer with Stella and Stanley Kowalski in their one bedroom apartment.
While not my absolute favorite play, A Streetcar Named Desire introduced classic characters, and I look forward to seeing them portrayed on film.
“He is of medium height, about five feet eight or nine, and strongly,compactly built. Animal joy in his being is implicit in all his movements and attitudes. Since earliest manhood the center of his life has been pleasure with women, the giving and taking of it, not with weak indulgence, dependency, but with the power and pride of a richly feathered malebird among hens. Branching out from this complete and satisfying center are all the auxiliary channels of his life, such as his heartiness with
Since  earliest manhood the center of his life has been pleasure with women, the giving and taking of it,  not with weak indulgence, dependency, but with the power and pride of a richly feathered male bird among hens.
He sizes women up at a glance, with sexual classifications, crude images  flashing into his mind and determining the way he smiles at them.”Stanley Kowalski is the male equivalent of Faulkner’s Dewey Dell who proclaims “I feel like a wet seed wild in the hot blind earth”.
Whoa.I did not consume this play as I was intended to.
I mean, honestly, you're not supposed to read a play.
Tennessee Williams didn't write this like "Hopefully in sixty years a girl will read this alone in her room in one sitting so she can fulfill her goal of reading a classic every month." That's not his ideal.That being said.THIS MADE ME FEEL SO MUCH.A play is supposed to be acted, obviously.
It's a lesser experience - like reading a screenplay.
This reading-a-classic-a-month thing is the best thing I'm doing this year.
'Stella!!!' lol I'm finally reading this gorgeous book.
Okay, first of all, may I just say:  you should see the movie before you read the book.  The thing about this play is that it absolutely relies on tension. And that tension is absolutely there in a quality rendition of this show. But it is not conveyed on page. Likewise, most of Blanche’s character is in her nuance, in the subtext of each scene where she acts nervous and worried and in how she is framed and in her fear and turmoil. In a character like this, a character full of ambiguity and hurt
[There’s a scene framing the two sisters as Hollywood lovers and it is weird.] Also, I’d like to point you all to the comment underneath this status stating that Stanley is a caricature of a straight man and Tenesee Williams just doesn’t understand straight men, because holy shit, that is the funniest thing I have ever read.But honestly, I think explaining the subtext wouldn’t be the best decision either for spoiler purposes [a lot of the thematic stuff is pretty easy to understand] or for my mental health [I am running off far too little sleep and I don’t think this review is coherent, probably.] What I will say is that you should see the movie, and then read the play and compare the two, and that I really liked this.
It's the late 1940's and I could visualize the setting of the New Orleans French Quarter (love it) and hear the jazzy blues music playing thru the window as Tennessee Williams brings to life the characters of a very well-built Stanley, his better-half Stella, and her delusional, whiskey-drinking southern belle of a sister Blanche who is in town for an "extended" visit.With two women and one hot-tempered, suspicious man in a dinky one bedroom flat, trouble starts brewing at the onset and never lets up until the ill-fated end.
Loved it!
I felt as if I were a participant in each and every scene."The sky that shows around the dim white building is a peculiarly tender blue, almost a turquoise, which invests the scene with a kind of lyricism and gracefully attenuates the atmosphere of decay.
You can almost feel the warm breath of the brown river beyond the river warehouses with their faint redolences of bananas and coffee."The vibrant and luckless Blanche DuBois arrives on a streetcar named "Desire" to inhabit the cramped and close quarters of her sister Stella and her husband, Stanley Kowalski.
This play felt very real and human, extremely powerful and ultimately quite heartbreaking.
But the play is dominated by the very different strengths of these enormous characters: Stanley's violent force and Blanche's imaginative power.Blanche, like her French-bourgeois predecessor, Emma Bovary, has an old fashioned ideal of romance which she cannot reconcile with her amorous experiences.
Blanche is the very manifestation of these ideals, and her romantic vision of the world is alluring to all around her, her imaginative power is a danger to Stanley's marriage, because it is a reminded to him and to Stella of the kind of life which they can never have with each other.
“They told me to take a streetcar named Desire and then transfer to one called Cemeteries and ride six blocks and get off at - Elysian Fields”  There is a certain high you feel when you read a classic. It's not one that can be repeatable or interchangeable. It attaches on to you and if it's good enough. It might never leave your system. Enter, our setting: New Orleans in the late 1940s, post second world war and the American Dream is thick in the atmosphere. Jazz and sex and booze and gambling
Enter, our Story: Their worlds are about to take a 360 degree turn when emotion, the summer heat, lust, manipulation, cleverness but mostly desire come alive and off the pages written by Tennessee Williams.
The writing screams hidden metaphors, and imagery that makes you want to dance with Blanche, play poker with Stanley, cry with Stella and be apart of the gang under New Orleans moon.
I could go on and on and list the different themes that this story approached, but I'm just going say that there was not a single tasteless moment in this play.
A Streetcar Named Desire, Tennessee WilliamsA Streetcar Named Desire is a 1947 play written by American playwright Tennessee Williams that received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1948.
The play opened on Broadway on December 3, 1947, and closed on December 17, 1949, in the Ethel Barrymore Theatre.
After the loss of her family home, Belle Reve, to creditors, Blanche DuBois travels from the small town of Laurel, Mississippi, to the New Orleans French Quarter to live with her younger, married sister, Stella, and brother-in-law, Stanley Kowalski.
Stanley, in return, does not care for Blanche's manners and dislikes her presence.
I may be arguing against the tide, though if you consider the history of Blanche the rape can be fairly doubted.
I think she lets it happen just so she can have an exit point.Indeed, the perfectly poised and delusional Blanche couldn’t simply walk out of the door; she couldn’t simply accept that her sister doesn’t like her and that she’s a complete manipulator of people and their emotions.
Not that I’m undermining the terribleness of rape, but in this situation I don’t think it’s a valid trigger to insanity.
PopSugar Challenge 2015 SPILLOVER (because I am a challenge failure, oops.) Category: A Play4 StarsWhat a deliciously depressive way to commence my 2016 reading year! After hearing and reading about A Streetcar Named Desire (*glares at Losing It*, seriously authors please stop putting massive spoilers for classic works in your books. PLEASE?! I didn’t get spoiled mind because I already knew, but still!)for many a year I have finally sat down and read it. And what I have to say is this: what the
Category: A Play4 StarsWhat a deliciously depressive way to commence my 2016 reading year!
This play is a relatively quick read, it took me one lazy January afternoon, but it is packed with a punch that lingers much longer than the story takes to tell.
All of the characters within this play are interesting in their own regard, but for the sake of this review I will focus on Blanche.
However, as the story goes forward there are little moments of reality which slip into that gloss messing up the proper image Blanche portrays.
The character transition of Blanche is both fascinating and depressing.
Tennessee Williams writes some brilliant dialogue and distributes it perfectly across an explosive cast of characters. All of it makes for some crazy intense scenes.So while it's natural to imagine this would be an awesome play (which I can't wait to see some day), the experience of reading it isn't, or at least for me it wasn't. Seems like this was clearly written to be performed not read, like most plays are...
Stell-lahhhhh!I read this back in the late 70s and I can honestly say that, while I enjoyed it, I never fully appreciated it.
It was a good, short-read for a school assignment.
And Blanche Dubois came to life as one of the most interesting characters I have ever happened upon.
I want magic!
– Don't turn the light on!"I couldn't stay angry at Blanche for long.
I found myself pitying this sad and tragic character.
The only issue I had reading this is that I kept seeing Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh throughout the book.
Worse, the vulgarians played cards and the heroine used cheap perfume.In his notebooks, director Elia Kazan wrote that it was a poetic tragedy - "the final dissolution of a person of worth." For him, Blanche was a social type who symbolized a dying civilization...the genteel tradition of the old South.
So he levels her with his cock.A tragic triangle : Blanche, Stanley, Stella.
To finally accept Blanche, Stella would then have to return to the subjugation of the Tradition : childhood, younger sister, the South.
می شکند اما باز باید این خیانت ها را فراموش کند شاید تنها شخصیت میچ است که می توان دوستش داشت.مردی که از مادر پیر و مریضش مراقبت میکند اما هیچ خبری از پدر و مادر استانلی و دوستان دیگرش نیست.با اینکه میچ میل جنسی زیادی به بلانش دارد و فرصتش هم پیش می آید تجاوز نمی کند
بصوا يا جماعة مش مهم دلوقتي المسرحية حلوة ولا رأيي فيها ولا الكلام ده .....المصيبة بقي أن مسرحية مشهورة لتنيسي ويليامز وعمل بطولتها مرتين مارلون براندو في فيلم ومسرحية نيجي في مصر هنا يعمل الشخصية ياسر جلال في فيلم الرغبة..لأ كدا كتير اقسم باللهيعني اي حاجة مثّلها مارلون ولا حتي قرأها مينفعش ياسر جلال يتكلم عليها اساسا مش يمثلها ...لما تبقي مسرحية مشهورة ونجيب البطلة نادية الجندي كانت ساعتها لسا راجعه من تل أبيب والحرب وهز عرش مصر مفرهدينها وخدت معاها صاحبتها وحبيبتها الهام شاهين ...هما اصلا جايين مش عشان يوضحوا فكرة تينيسي وليامز في الرغبة..
مش قصة لمصطفي محرم هيا..الرحمة يا جماعة شوية ناقص محمد رمضان واحمد السقا يعملوا فيلم براف هارت عن قصة تحرير مدينة بلبيسنيجي للمسرحية كويسة وفكرتها عجبتني قرأتها من زمان جدا ومعجبتنيش ولكن لما أعدت القرأة نوعا ما كويسة..الرغبة وماذا من الممكن ان تسبب..
Read for class... Plays really aren't my thing.
Blanche was an easily identifiable character...
In the end, you are left wondering if everything she said was real, considering that she is a self-proclaimed liar, "unless it is important", but who determines importance?I couldn't really identify with either Stella or Stanley as much...
I couldn't really accept how someone could choose their abusive husband over their sister, especially given the accusation at the end.
Stanley seemed like a husband jealous of his wife's relationship with her sister and determined to thwart their happiness at every turn...
These characters are not like-able, but they are human.

Following two sisters, Blanche and Stella, we have Stella living in New Orleans married to her husband Stanley.
Because as a reader, things are set up enough that I realized that this was where Williams was going to go."We've had this date with each other since the beginning."I hated that line though, probably because it is implied in Stanley's mind what he's about to do is welcomed by Blanche.
We as readers know that Stella chose her husband and new baby over her sister and ended up not believing her.
It has a wonderful combination of lyrical language and interesting characters.Blanche DuBois comes to stay at the home of her sister Stella, and her husband Stanley Kowalski in a poor area of New Orleans.
Stella is also pregnant with Stanley's child.As the play moves on, Tennessee Williams does a marvelous job of juxtaposing a fantasy world with reality.
Marlon Brando starred in a famous version of this drama.The recent Woody Allen movie, "Blue Jasmine," is a contemporary story with themes taken from A Streetcar Named Desire.
Κλασικό, από τα καλύτερα θεατρικά. Ο Williams θίγει πολλά κοινωνικά θέματα, προκαλώντας τρομερή εντύπωση στην Αμερική της δεκαετίας '50. Η βία εντός οικογένειας, το πρότυπο του ισχυρού άνδρα, η ταξική προέλευση κτλ είναι μερικά από αυτά. Υπάρχει και μεταφορά στον κινηματογράφο με πρωταγωνιστή τον Marlon Brando. Σίγουρα θα έχει ενδιαφέρον
Maybe I'll change my rating after we study it in class but right now it is a dwindling 2 stars.----- Update ------Yep, this definitely got better after studying it properly.
Proposito per l'anno prosimo: leggere più teatro.In questo caso ne è valsa veramente la pena.
So of course, it's Blanche who the world calls "crazy" because she's poetic enough to wish for beautiful things (how appropriate that Stella and Blanche's lost plantation home is called Belle Reve: beautiful dream!) and to try to see beauty and elegance and art in humanity, poetic enough to pretend it's there even when it's not; because she's practical enough to do what she must to survive, like becoming a sex worker; because she's brave enough to tell the truth about what Stanley did to her, even if she knows her sister will pretend it isn't true.Who, in the end, is the crazy one?

Τρίτο κλασικό θεατρικό έργο που διαβάζω φέτος, μετά το "Οικόπεδα με θέα" του Ντέιβιντ Μάμετ και το "Ο θάνατος του εμποράκου" του Άρθουρ Μίλερ, και αυτό με τη σειρά του μου φάνηκε πολύ καλό, ιδιαίτερο, διεισδυτικό και ενδιαφέρον από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος.
Είναι ένα έργο που θίγει αρκετά σοβαρά και σημαντικά κοινωνικά θέματα, όπως η οικογενειακή βία, το πρότυπο του δυναμικού και ισχυρού άντρα, η ταξική θέση και προέλευση κ.α., που σίγουρα θα προκάλεσαν μια κάποια εντύπωση στην Αμερικάνικη κοινωνία εκείνης της εποχής.
Τώρα που το βλέπω, και αυτό με τη σειρά του κέρδισε το βραβείο Πούλιτζερ (1948), όπως και τα άλλα δυο θεατρικά που διάβασα μέσα στη χρονιά.
(The first one is Stella.)) Williams weaves those styles together wonderfully; that's one of his best achievements.Here's me confused about the message: (view spoiler)[I'm not sure what to make of it.
I sympathized with Stanley at his first appearance, because he seemed down-to-earth; then I sympathized with Stella, because Stanley was quickly uncovered as a violent man; then with Blanche, who just wants a fresh start; then with Stanley again, because he's really trying to tell the truth.
I'd like to read more of Williams' plays; I think there might be more to it than that.
There is perhaps, an argument to be made for Blanche, since she's obviously the victim of a nervous breakdown, but given the fact that she was driven to that breakdown simple because she didn't have anyone to take care of her and couldn't live on her own, I have a hard time digging deep enough to find the sympathy there.
Stanley is an abusive a-hole, Stella is an idiot for staying with him and Blanche is crazy...yet somehow, you're supposed to care about them enough to sit through 2 hours?
