https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/548045.Black_Plumes
However, when Mrs Gabrielle Ivory, the staunch Victorian, hears that someone she sees as a former servant intends to try to marry her granddaughter, she becomes involved in a family dynamic which will lead to murder…This is a mystery full of mysterious disappearances and reappearances, intrigue, some good characters – Allingham makes full use of everyone in the household, including servants, who are so often ignored in mysteries at this time – and a little romance.
The story is set in and around a small art gallery and the home of the family who run it, 90-year-old matriarch Gabrielle Ivory and her descendants.At the start of the book, there is shock when a painting in the gallery is slashed, the latest in a series of malicious tricks.
However, all the characters are interesting and I especially enjoyed the conversational style of dashing artist David, whose way of talking has hints of Campion.
The Kindle edition that I read has a preview chapter for one of the best Campions, Look to the Lady, at the end, which reminded me just how witty and compelling those books are.
Nevertheless, it was an absorbing mystery with many potential perps—and it fooled me, which doesn’t happen all that often!
(hide spoiler)]The novel has a few annoying quirks—putting Godolphin’s nickname in quotation marks all the time, referring to Gabrielle as “old Gabrielle” as if we would forget who she was—and I am not fond of the neurotic female characters so common to writers of Allingham’s era (thinking of the ’20s and ’30s; later her characters, especially Amanda, came to appeal more to modern tastes).
But the characters are credible and the puzzle is absorbing, and for me, Allingham’s prose is capable and often deft.
One of Allingham's best.
What she does best, is deal in atmosphere.
She is a wonderful ghost story writer (go find one of them if you don't believe me) and that ability to create atmosphere and tension with a few short words is found here in spades.
The murder of a nervous wreck in an art gallery would not seem to provide much fodder for gothic tension and fear, however, both are found here in abundance.
The willing suspension of disbelief in the reader is always a sign of a well-written book.
This book must rank amongst Allingham's best.
A complete and utter tour-de-force of the writer's craft, this deserves to be better known.
Oh for the good old days of post-Victorian England where everyone knew their place. Upstairs and downstairs, them that has and those who don't, marriage for money, a Victorian pride in all things proper. And a whodunit involving a mysterious trip to the Orient, a servant who is above his station, a strong and cunning matriarch, polite policemen and strange goings-on in the upper crust household of an art dealer. Old Mrs Ivory is a great character who milks her old age to every advantage.
My first non-Campion Allingham!I am tempted to give this a higher rating because I did get a considerable amount of enjoyment from reading it. However, I did figure out both the who and the how; Allingham did manage to keep me second-guessing my choice but I thought that the guilty person was pretty obvious.
Margery Allingham is an author whose books I would love to enjoy but somehow they don't quite do it for me.
I can appreciate she was a good writer and she creates some marvellous characters but somehow I just can't get to grips with her books and this one is no exception.'Black Plumes' is a standalone novel which centres round the Ivory family and their prestigious art gallery.
He is an explorer and seems to think that his ego will overcome all obstacles.I'm sure Allingham's many fans will love this book but it wasn't one I particularly enjoyed and I don't think I would have persevered with it if I hadn't been listening to the audio book as I found it did send me to sleep!
One is that Allingham heftily overuses the narrative device of "Had Frances but known that for years to come this moment would .
Allingham carefully allows its use only among the "common" members of her cast (Gabrielle's snobbery again!) but, even so, it rankles quite a lot, like the casual antisemitism we find in so many detective novels of the so-called Golden Age. For a while the racism seemed to me to be perhaps Allingham's own, but then right at the end she threw my own preconceptions right back in my face:(view spoiler)["Working on the theory that when Mrs. Sanderson said 'nigger' [says David] she might easily mean a high-caste Hindu whose ancestors were discussing theology while her own were still leaping from twig to twig .
Make sure to fill in the year finished to have it added to your Reading Challenge!Now you can track all the times you have read a book.
Make sure to fill in the year finished to have it added to your Reading Challenge!Now you can track all the times you have read a book.
Make sure to fill in the year finished to have it added to your Reading Challenge!Now you can track all the times you have read a book.
Make sure to fill in the year finished to have it added to your Reading Challenge!Now you can track all the times you have read a book.
Most enjoyable Allingham I have read to date. This might be because there was no Campion in it. Weirdly, despite thinking I hadn't read any Margery Allingham, this was really familiar. I remembered the first half, so I know I've read at least that much of it before. This is the fourth Allingham that I have borrowed thinking it was new only to discover that it was a reread. Unfortunately, I returned the others before I added them to Goodreads.
Enjoyed this - a proper old fashioned whodunnit.
Allingham uses Frances Ivory to convey something of the fear and confusion which must surround becoming involved in a murder investigation, placing the story on a more human footing than is often the case with novels following the detective at work.Frances belongs to an old London family, owners of a private art gallery and art dealers.
The witnesses tell the police that they saw a dark skinned man running away from the scene of the crime, and at one point the policemen are discussing it and use the n-word.
I read this book for the first time back in 1991 and reread it last night.
It is one of my all time favorites because it captures England between the wars better than anything I've ever read.
Allingham can sketch characters better than most and make them memorable.
I'm fascinated with how she creates the interactions between the 90+ year old, formidable, Victorian, matriarch (Gabrielle Ivory) and her modern, twenty-something granddaughter (Frances Ivory).
"It was a little skirmish across a century." She also creates a believable love story that is such a side show to this gothic mystery.
I have 18 of Margery Allingham's books on my bookshelf, mostly the Campion novels which I read many years ago.
Not only was the mystery a good one and characters well-drawn, but the author used a technique that gave this story a thriller quality.
It gave me the sense of "Oh, no, what happens?" Since I have lately been enjoying some well-written Regency Romances (by Georgette Heyer and Marion Chesney) I like the touch of a romantic story incorporated into this pre-WWII British mystery as well.I think I will seek out other Allingham novels that I never knew about.
This is my favourite book so far in 2012. It's a nice, tense, parlour-style mystery. Set in one house in London, there are murders committed and the family must deal with a police investigation and their suspicions of each other. It moved along nicely, the characters are interesting and the story is well-written. I particularly liked the main female lead; Frances Ivory and also the Scottish Police investigator, Inspector Bridie. Very well-done. This is my second Margery Allingham and I look forward to reading more of her mysteries.
One of a dated series but enjoyable nonetheless as a rapid escape read, and some of the similes, metaphors, and personifications are endearing.Quotations:"The sound was sharp and spiteful, so that the silence between the two women within became momentarily shocked, as if it had received some gratuitous if trivial insult.""They were laughing again as they stepped into the street, and the fitful wind plucked at their sleeves and threw warm, soft rain in their eyes tormenting them, beseeching their attention."
Non-series Allingham from before she started getting too baroque and unreadable. So the story moves well and the characters feel (mostly) real. But the detective is rather one-note (ugh the dialect) and the entire story suffers by being mostly from Frances's point of view. Frances is kind of boring. You miss Albert Campion.
This is one of my favorite rereads just for the characters. Allingham lived in a time when the old ladies who had been presented at Victorias court were still an active force. This book is a vivid portrayal of one such strong-willed lady and upper class English life in the 1920s.
This is one of my favorite rereads just for the characters. Allingham lived in a time when the old ladies who had been presented at Victoria´s court were still an active force. This book is a vivid portrayal of one such strong-willed lady and upper class English life in the 1920´s.
I was so exited to be offered a digital copy of this book by Crime Classics Advanced Readers Club in return for an honest review.
I first read this it in my early teens, a very long time ago, when I was discovering pre and early post war detective fiction.
family life stopped me reading for many years.
Unfortunately as I read, the bare bones of the plot returned to me including who and how done it.But what I hadn’t appreciated all those years ago was the quality of the writing.
I love the very particular time invoked by these novels and find it surprising and almost refreshing the way with which the gruesome murders at the core of the books are frequently treated quite lightly and occasionally light-heartedly as a means simply to provide the basis of a puzzle.Margery Allingham is an entirely different proposition to the standard ‘golden age’ crime fiction writer and not in any way what I was expecting: much less Agatha Christie and much more Evelyn Waugh.
Margery Allingham writes a beautifully crafted story of murder.
But as with other great Mysteries of hers, I became so enamored of the characters I missed the last clue.
There is something unnatural and fishy going on in the family business.
Her Brother-in-law is trying to force her to marry against her wishes and his own terror is impinging on the family business.
But can he protect her from the Murders that begin at the family Home?
Death is walking those hallways.The interaction between the characters is very strong.
Gabrielle, the Matriarch of the family is either very shrewd and capable of murder- or facing senility.
Even without Mr. Champion and Co.,this is a solid 4.5 .As usual the suspense builds up slowly but su
The feeling I got was that the author wanted to write a period romance, but decided to throw in a mystery so it wouldn't be grouped in the romance section of a bookstore.
She just seemed to be there so the author could say "Looking back on that moment in her later years, she realized that was the calm before the storm" or something similar.
The author uses these statements A LOT.
Additionally, it's possible I wasn't paying close enough attention, but it seemed like information was held back from the audience that would've been useful in giving us a chance at solving the mystery.
A good if convoluted plot. Great character building. Some absolutely wonderful lines, among them: “The sunlight poured into the room through the wide-open window with the energy of a living thing....It found a speck of dust on the mahogany of the antique glass-fronted bookcase and pointed to it as if it had been a crime.” See my shared highlights for a few others.
A good quick mystery. I did have a little trouble with the passage of time at the beginning. It seemed like someone had just walked to the next room, but in fact it was several days later. I suspected the culprit early on, but enjoyed the journey to the solution.
Another delightful murder mystery with a dash of romance!Well written with the guilty party being held as a close secret until it becomes necessary for it to unfold. Moves along at decent pace. The only issue I had was having one ifbtjo
I didn't actually get past the first 15 pages of this one. But I love Margery Allingham and will probably return to it. I seem to be extra fussy this month about my reading material. It felt a little dusty, the plot of this one; and there is no Mr Campion.
I actually read it under its alternative (American?) title, Coroner’s Pidgin. It’s quite good, especially because of the tension about whether Campion is going to get home before his leave expires!
I enjoyed this.
What an absolute delight. A true English mystery. Lots of quirky characters and red herrings.
