https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297627.The_League_of_Extraordinary_Gentlemen_Vol_1
Instead, we get a fun variation of the classic spy mission opener: Mina Murray (nee Harker, nee Murray) is ordered on a mission by Campion Bond (grandfather of 007) to collect members for MI5's "Menagerie." From this moment to the last, The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen Vol.1 is a cracking tale of intrigue and action, full of famous literary characters who most readers are familiar with and probably even love.
It's a theme he tackles in all of his best works, but it takes on a special significance in The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen Vol.1 because this time he is working with established "heroes." Moore makes each and every one of his characters unsavoury -- even nasty -- then allows us love them despite ourselves.
Great good fun!Alan Moore and Kevin O’Neill collaborate on a TASTY!
tale where characters from literature and pulp fiction inhabit an alternate Victorian England and band together to save the empire and have a rousing fine rime of it.Readers will enjoy Moore’s penchant for adding detail to his DELICIOUS!
The “Where’s Waldo” quality of finding references to classic books is half the fun.Besides the CORNUCOPIA!
of allusions and references, Moore spins a novel and spirited tale to boot and adds greater depth to the characters than may be otherwise be imagined.
Well done Alan Moore!The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen takes place during the Victorian Era in London and it is a steampunk version of the British Empire.
A mysterious head of British Intelligence (Mr. M) wants to put together a League to combat extraordinary threats to the Empire.This first volume has Mina Murray ( from Dracula- Harker's wife) acting as the recruiting agent.
The first few stories show how each member was recruited from opium-addict Alan Quartermain to Dr. Jekyll.
They are worth it.The League consists of Alan Quartermain, Mina Murray, Dr. Jekyll, Mr. Griffin (the Invisible Man) and Captain Nemo.
This book brings together a problem-solving team composed of characters from Victorian lit: Mina Murray (whose brief marriage to Jonathan Harker has ended badly), the Invisible Man, Captain Nemo, Allan Quatermain, and Henry Jekyll & Edward Hyde.
Maybe Moore just needs a lot more space and time in order to make characters work.
(There are only two volumes in this series, and they are both slim.) There are a couple of interesting moments in the book.
This volume also contains a painfully written short story by Moore that functions as a kind of prequel to Quatermain's part of the story.
(Yeah, I said it.) The movie took a lighter Indiana Jones-esque approach, & that fits the original characters much better; the paper version takes itself way too seriously & it shows on every page, whether Griffin's rapey antics at the school or Quartermain's sad-sack slumping for lack of narcotics.
But I think Moore would have been better served to write an actual prose novel & include some illustrations for atmosphere -- something like Brom's Child Thief.
Ako vas je film razocarao strip ce vam vratiti poverenje u ove likove i ovu pricu.Sama prica je dosta jednostavna mada se fino uklapa u format steampunk-a i lici na nesto sto bi mozda i Zil Vern napisao ali glavna prednost su sami heroji koji vode ovu pricu.
Ali sama prica je dosta mracna i smestena u okruzenje Londona koje je dosta mracno i odurno tako da do kraja ipak navijamo za nase likove da izadju kao pobednici.Jedna od boljih stvari koje ovde srecemeo je fino uklopljen mix imaginarnih likova iz raznih knjiga i to na nacin koji ihpretstavlja onakvim kakvi su originalno a opet nudi dovoljno razloga da objasni zasto su postali to sto jesu u ovoj prici.Stil crtanja je interesantan, originalan mada ne bas po mom ukusu ali to je vec subjektivno pitanje.
Y tengamos en cuenta una cosa: Este es un cómic para amantes de los libros con mente abierta.Esta es una de las pocas grandes obras de Alan Moore que me quedaban por leer, y llevaba años con ganas, al principio tengo que decir que me decepcionó un poco, me parecía la típica historia de aventuras ambientada en la época victoriana...
Pero los personajes literarios tan oscuros como geniales, los miles de guiños, los paralelismos con las novelitas baratas de la época (penny dreadful)...
todo eso acabó enganchándome y me acabé dando cuenta de que aunque la historia en sí no fuera especialmente remarcable, todo resultaba tan original que me encantaba.
I found this utterly entertaining. What i loved most are the dialogues. The way the characters talk to each other is just beautiful.Can't wait to continue with the series <3
1.5 to 2.0 stars. I was really disappointed with this graphic novel after going into it was high expectations. Not quite bad enough to rate 1 star as there are some clever scenes and some of the dialogue is engaging. On the whole though, this is an AMAZING CONCEPT that deserved better treatment than it received here.
The only adapatation of his work that he had the presence of mind to disavow before its release was the surprisingly good "V for Vendetta." The others of his works produced for the screen were the tepidly-received "From Hell" and the god-awful "League of Extraordinary Gentleman" adaptation, "LXG."The film was stillborn, creatively, lacking the tongue-in-cheek humor and moral ambiguity that made the books so enjoyable, and was very obviously the work of a group of movie executives who were determined to create a hit new action franchise.
The problem: how to make a seriously-intended action movie starring Alan Quatermain, a vampire, the Invisible Man, Dr. Jekyll and Captain Nemo?
(The answer: you can't.) The comic opens with the retrieval of Alan Quatermain from a Moroccan opium den, by Mina Murray and Captain Nemo.
As a diehard Sherlockian, I was a bit confused about the timing--this story takes place in 1898, and Sherlock Holmes is believed dead; however, his "hiatus" was actually 1891-1894, so he'd totally be around at this point.
It would've been nice to see her compatriots--the Invisible Man, Allan Quartermain, Jekyll/Hyde, and Captain Nemo--actually bother to respect her instead of sniping about uppity women behind her back and miraculously saving her when she's sexually threatened (seriously, Moore, would it kill you to write a story in which a woman ISN'T sexually assaulted?).In conclusion: Possibly worth reading if you're a big Victorian literature fan; otherwise you can skip it.
Great concept, terrible execution. Moore manages to reduce about a dozen Victorian adventure classics to fit into his apparently pea-sized brain, and out comes this. This book offended both my conservative and my liberal impulses, with banal pornographic sequences, flat, amoral "heroes" and offensive Asian stereotypes. (Moore has less sympathy for Chinese people than Tolkien has for orcs.) This book certainly isn't suitable for children, and it's too childish for me. So I don't know who the audience is.
Not to be confused with the bizarre but hilarious British television show about a dysfunctional rural town, The League of Gentlemen.This graphic novel is daring, imaginative, artistic and engaging, and my favourite part of it would hands-down be its characters. The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen is unforgettable and practically alive as a work of fiction.
Sorry...not my cup of English Breakfast Tea. I found it rather disappointing.
I'd never read any of the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen before this, I'd only seen the movie (of course it was a bit disappointing to so...)This, like a lot of books that I've been disappointed in is one I think is a good idea.
It just doesn't, "come off".
Willamina who is not Mina (am I the only one who actually read that novel????).
Allan Quatermain is an opium addict, Captain Nemo is still trucking around under the sea...a bit.
you get the idea.
If you're a League fan, enjoy.
En serio.... ¿Qué les costaba hacer una adaptación fiel?
I want to guess that Moore and the artist wanted us to take it tongue in cheek, but it was a bit too offensive for my tastes.I'm not sure how I feel about this book.
I haven't read The Invisible Man, so it's possible he's very much in line with the character from HG Wells' novel, so I guess I'll have to read it and see what I think.I give this three stars because there is something worthwhile about this idea, but I wasn't too thrilled about several aspects of the execution.
‘La Liga de los Caballeros Extraordinarios, Volumen 1’ (The League of the Extraordinary Gentleman 1-6, 2000) es una recopilación de las ediciones en grapa que se publicaron a finales de los 90.
Su misión, enfrentarse a una conspiración contra Gran Bretaña.Se nota que Alan Moore se lo ha pasado estupendamente escribiendo esta historia, todo un homenaje a la literatura de aventuras y ciencia ficción decimonónica.
Rider Haggard, Bram Stoker, R.L. Stevenson, son los autores cuyos personajes se pasean por las páginas de esta novela gráfica.
Al final del volumen se incluye además un relato lovecraftiano de Alan Moore, ‘Allan y el velo rasgado’, también muy disfrutable.
I was so not impressed by this. It's my first Alan Moore book, and possibly my last because this just really didn't float my boat. We see a lot of racism and sexism straight away, and a lot of brutality. I don't really mind brutality in graphic novels, but this was just silly and I wasn't interested in the story. The art was rubbish-y (although art is fairly personal so some may like it, it's just not my style) and the story was just a lot of nonsense (again, in my opinion). Sadly, not for me. 1*
4-4.5 starsThe adaptation-loved-it shelf may change. Bear in mind, I saw the movie years before I even knew the graphic novel existed (and, thus, years ago). I do still love the idea of some of literature's most beloved characters banding together to create a kickass supergroup. And something else I loved about the book that I think got pushed aside in the film, but Mina being the leader? Hell yeah, girl. Looking forward to volume 2, the Black Dossier, and the rest.
Historia en seis numeros donde se forma un super grupo de famosos personajes de la literatura victoriana, Allan Quatermain, Nemo, Jekill/Hyde, el hombre invisible y Mina Harker. Bajo el mando de Campion Bond son encargados de vigilar y luchar contra el robo de cavorita, el primer material antigravedad secuestrado con la idea de bombardear Londres por aire en las puertas del siglo XX.Muy entretenida y original obra del maestro Moore.
Un fumetto vittoriano ma paradossalmente in modo esuberante, che fa proprio di questo il suo punto di forza, reinterpretando - in maniera a dir poco magnifica - alcuni dei più grandi personaggi della letteratura.
L’utilizzo da parte di Moore di questa sorta di “Suicide Squad” vintage mi ha lasciato estasiato.
Un mistero, anzi più d’uno, da risolvere districandosi fra gli eccessi dell’epoca e le originali quanto letali personalità coinvolte.
Ogni singolo personaggio appartenente a questo bizzarro gruppo di eroi?
merita un 10 e lode in pagella.
Due to his history with female characters and playing into 19th century stereotypes, it's suggested that Mina Murray is raped (actually turned into a vampire, but we don't know this contextually), she's almost raped by "beastly" Egyptians, and is constantly threatened/in threat of being raped because of her cowardice/fragility/innate female desire to be dominated (bullshit).
Of all characters, why would Moore bench the vampire?
And Holmes' arch nemesis (view spoiler)[James Moriarity (hide spoiler)] serves as a major character and classic evil villain.
(hide spoiler)] Again, more rape from Moore, although not surprising, and I think in character with Hawley Griffin.
Me acabo de enamorar.
Y yo que iba con miedo porque en su momento vi la película y no me gustó nada... El cómic es extraordinario, y nunca mejor dicho. Dibujo excelente y guión todavía mejor. Los personajes son tan geniales que no puedes evitar cogerles cariño y devorar las páginas con avidez. 100% recomendado, tanto si lees cómics como si nunca lo has hecho y no sabes por donde empezar. Cualquier amante de la lectura lo disfrutará.
I read this a few years ago quickly, and Greg suggested I reread it because I didn't think it was as awesome as he did… :) It is great, I think, on rereading, getting all these nineteenth century mythical/fantastical/literary heroes together to fight crime and save England…. a lot of fun and as are most things by Dean of Comics Moore, smart and entertainingly smart. The art work by O'Neill is great, too.
You can find my review of this trade paperback at:https://bookidote.wordpress.com/2015/...Yours truly,LashaanLashaan & Trang | Bloggers and Book ReviewersOfficial blog: http://bookidote.wordpress.com
Lo segundo que más me ha gustado de Alan y he leído sus obras magnas. Un autentico pulp metiendo a los personajes más clásicos de la literatura como superhéroes. Mezclando aventura, terror, steampunk … Una gozadera.Un mojón para la película.
I had seen the movie based on this story and, as always happens, at least for the first volume the comics is better.
The idea of bringing together some of the most famous literary characters of the 19th century, in a superhero team, is great!
Extraordinary characters, but everyone brings his skills and his 'demons'.
The idea is brilliant.
The artwork is incredible as well.
But I feel the characters lack a certain depth.
The reader is supposed to be familiar with them, but they are literary characters, and putting them in a comic book cuts away a lot of their personalities.
What's more, not all of them are the way I like to remember.
I don't remember Griffin (the Invisible Man) being a multiple rapist and I haven't pictured Edward Hyde as a textbook monster.
Perhaps Alan Moore tried to extend ther personalities in a way, but it doesn't resonate with me.
A really cool concept (fictional characters forming a team of secret agents/superheroes) that was not well-done AT ALL.Hey, if you like rape, you'll love this book.
If you like weak female characters, you'll love this book.
If you like rooting for the rapists, you'll love this book.
If you like your graphic novels chock full of men (but not in the fun way), you'll love this book.
And did I mention the rape?I hate it more and more the more I talk about it.For a fuller review, see http://www.flaminggeeks.com/tripletake/ .
K has reviewed it so far as well.
