https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36464087-ghosted
It’s not that I enjoy writing one star reviews or labeling something as “not for me”, but the reality is, there are books that walk into my life and don’t work for one reason or another.It was the promise of a love story and the loaded title, wrapped in a pretty package, that started the incessant pitter-patter in my chest—I was so sure, this would be one to remember.In hindsight, maybe I should have listened to the voice in my head telling me—after only a few chapters—this wasn’t going to go well and simply moved on.
Sarah verges on obsession trying to find out what happened to Eddie and begins to question whether or not there time together was real.My reading experience: It took until I reached the 50% mark for me to get into this.
being immersed in their time together, I didn’t feel their connection and began to wonder if Sarah was mentally ill.
However, I have a read a few romances recently that kept me reading all night to see if the characters would get together (or back together) and sadly Ghosted just doesn't compare.
Convinced this is the real deal, Sarah becomes desperate for answers and will stop at almost nothing to obtain them, even if this quest includes compulsive phone calls and incessant messaging, until it gradually devolves into the self-depreciating task of flat out googling “why didn’t he call?”...This plot is focused, and squeezes its reader into the manic grip of Sarah’s growing insanity, dragging us on a journey that is both obsessive and dryly comical.
Sure, the plot itself is, at times, redundant and tends to have some dragging points, but woven into this prolonged cycle of Sarah-finding-Eddie are heartbreaking side stories with extremely touching outcomes.
There were several things that rang true in this novel- marriages don’t always work, accidents happen and handling grief is difficult and different for each of us.
But the premise of the book that had a woman falling apart after a one week affair with a man who disappears from her life just didn’t work for me, mainly because there just wasn’t enough of their time together shown to reflect a realistic connection between them for me.
I upped it to 3 stars in spite of the things I didn’t connect with because I did connect with the grief expressed by Sarah and Eddie for their sisters in the letters they wrote.
I'll be honest and say that this book has left me feeling conflicted. The concept of "ghosting" intrigued me but  Ghosted  ended up being something other than what I expected. Sarah & Eddie meet, spend a week together & fall deeply in love. Maybe my romantic heart has hardened with age but the fact that this thirty-something year old woman became OBSESSED with Eddie after 7 days just didn't seem romantic to me. It felt unstable. All her frantic, unanswered attempts to reach out to Eddie
I'll be honest and say that this book has left me feeling conflicted.
Yet, I admittedly was still intrigued by what could have actually led to Eddie "ghosting" her.
Was Sarah actually mentally unbalanced and imagining the connection they had?
Unfortunately, I just never had a big enough connection to Sarah & Eddie's insta-love relationship to feel fully invested in what happened with them and that was the bulk of the book.
If I'm going to be honest, it was definitely more curiosity than anything else, that kept me turning the pages to the end.
I’ll preface this by saying that many readers will be enthralled by Ghosted.
It may be my cold, dark heart but I am not among them.
After spending six days together, Eddie and Sarah fall hopelessly in love.
Both are pushing forty and I can’t help but think this is quite a stretch.
Eddie disappears; Sarah is devastated and spends an inordinate amount of time trying to find him.
Again, blame my cold, dark heart not the novel.
As a debut novel, it’s fine and I think Walsh will have a successful romance writer’s career.
If you are a romance reader, keep her on your radar.
This book was extremely gripping, intense, and a heartwarming story that had me totally engaged and interested right from the very first chapter to the very last page.
ROSIE WALSH delivers an original, well-paced and well-written read here with believable and convincing characters.
I could totally relate to Sarah & Eddie’s characters and their short and intense relationship.
I was totally entertained and flew through those pages!Publishing Date: July 24, 2018This was another extremely compulsive read for me as I was emotionally invested and gripped right from the beginning which followed through to that extremely touching and stunning conclusion.
I think it is totally relatable as a dating fear, that you will connect with someone and then the person just mysteriously vanishes from your life and you are left to wonder what went wrong.
It brought a level of mystery to the story as you wondered what exactly happened to make Eddie stop contacting Sarah.
The pacing of the story was excellent as the author did not drag the mystery until the last 5 pages to reveal what happened.
Kudos to the author for such an entertaining read!I won a free copy of this book in a giveaway but was under no obligation to post a review.
Although I did finish this book, and the ending had some touching moments, I do not feel comfortable assigning a rating.
This is because, quite frankly, I skimmed through quite a bit of this.
I just never connected with many of the plot points, and also thought there was way to much teenage angst present, from a middle aged woman.
A cop out I know, but the best I feel able to do in all fairness.
Read the other reviews and judge for yourself whether or not you think the book will appeal.ARC from Edelweiss.
This is where we started to split as some of us did not buy into the love story and wanted to see more into the relationship between our two main characters Sarah and Eddie.
Rosie Walsh explores something deeper here and it really isn’t a love story but a story hidden deep within the relationship of Sarah and Eddie.
Ghosted does start off slow and sometimes does become repetitive and I with a couple other sisters made my way up to the top of the coulee looking for a way to escape but just as I was ready to jump out I left two of my sisters there and Rosie Walsh pulled me back into the coulee with Norma and three of our other TS and we couldn’t put this book down until we were finished.
This novel turned out to be something completely unexpected, I liked it!Sarah and Eddie met and spend seven wonderful days together with the promise of seeing each other again, however, after saying goodbye Sarah does not hear from Eddie again. She calls him, texts him, sends him messages on facebook with no response on his part. What happened to Eddie? Well, there’s a backstory which you will find out about if you read the book. ghost·ing | ˈɡōstiNG/the practice of ending a personal relationshi
When I started reading the book all I knew about it is what’s described in the synopsis (which is not much), at the moment I had no idea if this was a thriller, mystery, romance, or what and it turned out to be something completely unexpected that I enjoyed.The novel is well-crafted and engaging, the characters are likable.
Overall, I enjoyed it and recommend it to readers.I received an ARC from the publisher via Edelweiss* I read this book with the Traveling Sisters.
The last 80% or so was interesting but not exciting.Honestly, if you’ve read the synopsis then you already know the first 65% of the book.* Girl meets boy.* Girl likes boy.* Boy likes girl.* Boy never calls back.There really wasn’t much more to it than that.Later on we do find out why the BOY ghosted the GIRL and we get a better idea of the who, what, when, where, why, and how of the situation.
No, if you are looking for a story that will give you all the feels.Will I read another book by this author?
I absolutely love it when a book can catch me totally off guard.
When Sarah Mackey meets Eddie David, she suddenly finds herself caught up in a whirlwind romance.
As the week ends, Eddie must leave for a trip and promises to call.
Sarah is devastated and begins to realize there is way more to this love story than she could have ever imagined.
On a personal note, I enjoyed this book immensely.
It read at a good pace, I enjoyed the characters, and it was different and intriguing.
There were mixed feelings about this one, and that’s the great thing about books.
We will even joke to those people that their story should have been a Hallmark movie.So what would you do if the “one” disappears after just seven days?
Urban dictionaries define ghosted as “ when someone you love disappears without explanation...then your family and friends act like you’re crazy.”Sarah stops at nothing to discover the reason that Eddie has disappeared.Walsh’s book dragged at times and she was redundant at several points throughout the book with the theme but overall Walsh created a story worth the finish.The Hallmark channel won’t be producing this story as their next movie of the week, because not everything in Sarah’s journey is all a bed of roses.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I was fully prepared to come to this space and present myself sort of like this . . . . .   Now that I’ve logged on I realize only one of my GR friends has read this selection and she didn’t even rate it because it didn’t work for her either. It was Instagram that was flooded with this one since it was a Book of the Month selection awhile back. What a great feeling to be able to tell myself (at least for a minute) that I read something
I’ve also confessed about eleven trillion times that I either (a) don’t read blurbs at all or (b) only read the first line or two – and duhhhhhhh, I’m a fast reader so it’s not like I really feel like I wasted my life on something even if I don’t fall all over myself about it.Ghosted is the book that proves I should stop doing everything I mentioned above and completely change the way books get added to my TBR.
I’m going to be generous and give it 2, though, because I should have at least scrolled the first page of reviews and noticed all the 1s and 2s instead of blindly jumping off the cliff.
3.5 stars rounded up!
"But if I had my time again, I would not have given up,” Granddad said.
“I don’t believe that love is meant to be like an explosion.
It is not meant to be dramatic, or ravenous, or any of the silly words ascribed by writers and musicians.
But I do believe that when you know, you know.
And I knew, and I let it go without any real sort of fight, and I will never forgive myself that.” I've been wanting to pick this book up for months and I'm glad I finally did.
I had different
“I don’t believe that love is meant to be like an explosion.
I had different expectations for what it would be but that ultimately ended up not being a bad thing.Sarah mets a man name Eddie.
They have seven amazing days together and completely fall in love.
Sarah tries to reach out to him multiple times but Eddie totally ignores and ghosts her.
Sarah continues on the search until the truth unravels about both Sarah and Eddie and their love stories goes from perfect to twists and turns.This book started off really slow for me.

It didn't feel like the sort of afternoon for falling in love with a complete stranger."Sarah is a woman at a crossroads.
I've also seen some readers comment about the dialogue, particularly that between Sarah and Eddie, feeling awkward and disingenuous.
"Eddie's sense of place was so strong, I thought, imagining him combing the local woods for things to carve.
If you and your soulmate took a bit longer to find feelings for one another, or if you haven't found them yet, Sarah and Eddie's relationship will likely come across as unbelievable.
Bazată pe suspans și mister, “Bărbatul care n-a mai sunat” este asemănătoare cu un labirint.
Personajele mi-au plăcut, sunt reale.
Subiectul cărții mi-a plăcut, este ceva aparte, cu care nu te întâlnești zi de zi.
Toată cartea am avut senzația că sunt un detectiv pornit să rezolve o enigmă.
Sunt capabili de sacrificii , se pun pe ei înșiși pe locul doi...în ziua de azi nu prea mai vezi așa ceva.
Am avut parte de o poveste incredibilă!
Singurul minus al cărții a fost coperta, care nu atrage vizual atenția.
am avut parte de o lectură captivantă!
Sarah finds herself bereft and in a state of both longing and confusion, when the man of her dreams, Eddie, fails to contact her after a booked holiday.
I will attempt to illuminate why I adored his novel and why ever since reading it I have been sharing it around with my book worm friends!Ghosted initially reads as a fairly standard British chick lit style love story.
It is a concept I only just introduced to thanks to this book.Although the love story sequences between Eddie and Sarah are relatively short, we still feel completely invested in their love story.
150 pages in and I was still holding out hope that something would spark for me and I'd fall in love the story, after all, I've seen some amazing reviews for it.
These are adults, almost 40-year-old adults, and they read like teenagers trying to navigate their first love.The thing that really bothered me the most were the chapters with Eddie and Sarah.
Some situations that the author added felt so odd and forced for this type of story and I just feel that everything at the end started spiraling and ended up being way over the top.
(Sigh) Another BOTM bust ☹Sarah and Eddie meet and instantly fall in love with each other. They spend seven perfect days together until Sarah has to go back to LA and Eddie has to go on holiday to Spain. When they part ways and he promises he will keep in contact but never does. Sarah becomes increasingly worried that something bad has happened to him. And she may be right...Okay first off, Rosie Walsh enough with the damn grass already! This author has a tendency to over dramatize the scenery t
Seriously we've got it with the grass.The love story is melodramatic at best and with pointless side characters and their irrelevant additions to the main storyline this makes it for less than a good read.
But it was the pretty cover and the promise of a good love story that drew me in.
And Walsh's constant battle with other side characters storylines in the feeble attempt to twist you up even more as the reader fails even more dramatically then the love story itself.Now let's talk about the main character shall we?
I'm writing this review feeling as though I have lived another life and sudden woken up in a new one - that's how deeply immersed I was in The Man Who Didn't Call (or Ghosted as it's called in the U.S.) I could write about the mystery at the heart of this book and the many brilliant twists that I didn't see coming (VERY rare) but what will stay with me, and the reason I cried when I finished this book, is the absolutely stunning way Rosie Walsh writes about love, forgiveness and redemption.
I absolutely loved it.
"Seven perfect days together.
Then he disappeared.
A love story with a secret at its heart."When Sarah meets Eddie they instantly connect and fall in love.
They spend seven perfect days together until Eddie leaves on a vacation, booked prior to their meeting, and promises to call from the airport.
He doesn't call.Weeks go by without a word and Sarah becomes increasingly worried.
Something must have happened to him, there has to be an explanation, the pure passion they experienced couldn't be abandoned.Then she discovers the reason behind Eddie's disappearance.
I will say that I did go into this book expecting a psychological Thriller of some sorts, for those of you all that are expecting that it may not be the best book for you as it was a little bit of a mystery but overall I felt like it was more of a romance...don't get me wrong the mystery elements and the reveal at the end were great and it added to my overall feeling of the book, but there was nothing dark and twisted about it, not really.
And my heart wanted this book.
This books explores one such instance of a woman being ghosted by a man - but what it's really about is *why* this man ghosted her and also how each of their stories plays out from there.
And I loved every summery, beachy second of it.****Also, don't read this next bit if you don't want ANY thing that even has a WHIFF of spoilers.
My husband, when I told him I was reading a book called "Ghosted" assumed it was about someone who got killed - apparently the word ghosted plays double duty in popular lexicon.
Brilliantly plotted, beautifully written, and hauntingly romantic!Ghosted is the immersive, beguiling story of Sarah, a woman who spends seven wondrous days with the man of her dreams only to be devastated, mystified, and tormented with the question why when he seemingly disappears, and his promised call never arrives.The writing is fluid, seamless, and expressive.
The characterization is well done with an unforgettable cast of characters that are multilayered, strong, supportive, and determined.
It's enthralling, twisty, and engaging from the very first page, and I absolutely adored it!Thank you to Publishers Group Canada for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.All my reviews can be found on my blog at https://whatsbetterthanbooks.com
De esos libros que te mantienen despierta hasta las 2.15 de la madrugada porque no lo podés soltar h
I was a bit apprehensive when I started reading this book, but what a lovely surprise! Yes, “The Man Who Didn’t Call” is a love story, but it’s also a tragic story that came with a lot of twists I didn’t see coming. You think you have an idea of where things are going, but actually you don’t, and that’s what keeps this love story refreshing and intriguing. I might actually have to read another book by Rosie Walsh now :)
All of that to say, further exploring this concept of ghosting seemed like such an interesting premise for a book and this one definitely took some surprising and unexpected turns along the way.Initially I wasn’t drawn in to the story, it took me a little while to warm up and become totally invested, but by about page one hundred I was more intrigued.
This definitely isn’t a typical romance though, again it had depth and a darkness that I really liked, recommended for those looking for a very unique love story.Ghosted in three words: Current, Unique and Surprising
