https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/540047.The_Secret_of_the_Forgotten_City
There are rumors that long ago a treasure was hidden in a city now buried under the Nevada desert.Nancy and her friends plan to join a dig sponsored by two colleges to hunt for the gold.
With this amazing clue, however, come a threat and danger from a thief who also wants the treasure.REVIEW: I have not read a Nancy Drew mystery since childhood but still found they are fun to read.
The characters are now in college in this particular mystery and the relationships between the 3 girls and their boyfriends are still much the same.
Yet another wonderful adventure in the Nancy Drew book series.
Nancy and her friends plan to join a dig sponsored by two colleges to hunt for the gold .
Before she starts , the young sleuth receives an ancient stone tablet with petroglyphs on it .
With this amazing clue , however , come a threat and danger from a thief who also wants the treasure .
They are assisted by a fine Indian woman and a young geology student , but both are unwilling participants in a strange plot .
In the end Nancy and Ned nearly lost their lives , just after she has discovered the priceless hidden treasure of gold .
Keene, Carolyn
Don't let the 2 stars indicate that I don't like Nancy Drew books. I absolutely do! Lots of unbelievable events occurred in #52. Of course, Nancy came to the rescue when she knew Spanish just in time to persuade a group of Mexicans to leave their campsite. This particular book, "The Secret of the Forgotten City" revealed the word fagot to me. It is a bundle of twigs or sticks. Also, I am once again conflicted as to use the word used/use correctly. Stay tuned as I unfold that mystery.
As a huge Nancy Drew fan, I am usually ready to rate all the books as 5-star. Unfortunately this one has not aged as well as the others, with occasional moments of indelicacy towards Native Americans and ancient cultures in general.
This one was ok, interesting to me because they came to Las Vegas where I live, so a couple of the places were real and I've been to them.
It's been a lot of years since I read a Nancy Drew Mystery. I really enjoyed the journey back to my childhood!
Sure, they solved the mystery and found the "treasure", but I felt like it was left very open ended with no real details about the treasure itself.
Well this book is really interesting. I do not know how Nancy figured out the whole "aging" process. It was a really exiting book.
Nancy Drew and friends go on an archaeology dig to solve a case. Another fun Nancy Drew mystery!
(of course, if you look further into the author situation there was more than one person using this pseudonym.)Like other Nancy Drew mysteries there are two problems to solve--getting Mrs. Wabash's property returned, deciphering what is written on the tablets she has, and what can be found when the tablets are properly read.
In this case, the bad guy wasn't nearly as bad as other thugs Nancy and her friends had encountered previously and his actions were strangely reminiscent of previous evil doers.Besides the lack of depth and wimpy thug, one of the other issues I had revolves around Mrs. Wabash.
The author would sometimes refer to Mrs. Wabash as "the Indian" instead of using her name.
She solves crimes and often her friends Bess, George and Ned also help her.In the book, "The Secret of the Forgotten City", Nancy and her friends are called to participate in a dig in the Nevada desert where there are rumors of a forgotten city and a hidden gold treasure.
Amid danger and adventure and ancient stone tablets with petroglyphs on it, Nancy solves one clue after another ultimately succeeding in uncovering "The Secret of the Forgotten City" and finding the lost treasure.Definitely not the best Nancy Drew adventure, I still enjoyed reading the book and feeling the adventure and the thrill of finding new clues.
The Secret of the Forgotten City  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 52nd book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew and her friends help find and decipher coded tablets that lead to a lost gold treasure and a forgotten city in Nevada. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love for
Nancy Drew and her friends help find and decipher coded tablets that lead to a lost gold treasure and a forgotten city in Nevada.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
This was a very fun adventure with Nancy Drew. I enjoyed it very much.
She was so brave and smart, and she had the coolest powder blue Mustang convertible (a car that I now have, minus the convertible part.) Every now and then I like to take a trip down memory lane and read a Nancy Drew Mystery.In this installment of the series, Nancy and her friends head out to Nevada to do a little digging.
The six of them make a great team and I’ve always rooted for Nancy and Ned to finally make it official.Overall, this isn’t my favorite Nancy Drew story, but it is still a fun jaunt down memory lane.
I'm currently reading books from the Nancy Drew series can't wait to finish them.- This book starts out with Ned (Nancy's best friend) arriving at Nancy's house.
they go to see who it was but then they see Fleefoot Joe who had just taken some things from this woman.
They go to see who the woman was it was Mrs. Wabash.
She was heading over to Nancy's house to help her out with these stone tablets.
So Nancy's needs to know why Fleefoot Joe just robbed Mrs. Wabash over stone tablets was the lost buried treasure connected with this.
Read the book to find out.
A woman has some tablets which supposedly tell where a Native American man buried a treasure of golden plates.
Fleetfoot is all around, as is usual with Nancy villains, but this time he's caught several chapters before the end, the rest of the story dealing with the search for the golden plates and Nancy almost getting killed in an underground stream.One good thing is that the people running the dig have arranged for any artifacts found to be turned over to a local museum.Another good Nancy Drew story.
This book was so exiciting!
Nancy and her friends Ned Nickerson, Bess Marvin, and George Fayne go on a dig in the Nevada desert to slove the mystery of the forgotten city.
Before they leave they meet Mrs. Walbash, she had tablets that had petroglyphs on them that told a story of were GOLD was in the nevada desert were they were going on the dig.
Will Nancy catch this theif and return the tablets to Mrs. Walbash and help her find the gold?
Find out in this book.
I recommend this book to anyone who likes a good mystery.
Indian gold.Nancy luckily speaks some rare Mexican tribal dialect (Trique?) when they encounter strange men.The Six come up with this tedious code where the third word in each sentence is the important word and they deploy it from time to time but it's more confusing than effective.
At one point they capture one of their tormentors while they're out in the desert, and I guess the police come and pick him up?
He just disappears.Nancy finds an underground river, and falls into it and is swept right to the lost treasure (gold plates, possibly the original Book of Mormon?).
I loved Nancy Drew books when I was younger! I couldn't get enough of them. However, now that I'm older the things that used to scare or suprise me just make me laugh. This book is now a source of entertainment rather than mystery. I encourage younger readers to read Nancy Drew, but it's definitely not something for older readers.
Nancy Drew was better when I was a kid.Never noticed that they were so mean to Bess. "Watch out how much you eat, cousin. You'll get fat!" That's not nice. And this one had a scene where they drove off the Mexicans. At least Nancy was horrified by that.Also never noticed how unrealistic the story lines are. Still, they're fun. I'd read another as an adult.
I can't wait until my girls have outgrown their Nancy Drew kick! I think they are a great read for younger tween girls but I am way past that demographic and bored to tears by yet another Nancy Drew mystery.
There is implausible with the Nancy Drew Mysteries, then there is Implausible and this one was the latter! I just didn't buy the way they located their "quest object" and the missing clues. For me this is where the series really starts to go down hill for a while.
Nancy is on the search for some long-lost golden tablets that can be found by following some stone tablets.
100 starsPeppo read this to me.
Nancy and her friends go on a dig in the Nevada desert in search of the Forgotten City
An oldie but a goodie. Has you hooked from page one right to the end.
this book is really good, but not so good. It's like a mystery but not exactly. They find out about the forgotten city. find some old stuff and chase after the bad guy.
It wasn't as exciting as the other Nancy Drew books.
