https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/388297.The_Sexual_Life_of_Savages
Picked up a very very early addition of this book, tattered and taped together like a paper Frankenstein, in my early teens at some thrift store. It made me want to become an anthropologist. If I graduate this year, maybe I'll buy another copy because mine is a relic.
Other times it just dragged on and on with too much information.Today, the average American reader and especially those who were brainwashed by academia, would read this book and think how ideal it is that the teenagers in this native society get to "explore their sexuality" without judgement and whatnot.
It's about looking at history and other cultures and noticing trends and what successful cultures have in common and realizing that we can only change successful strategies at a very high risk.I recommend skipping this book and reading Mother Nature by Hrdy.
Бронислав Малиновски в началото на 20 в. прекарва доста време сред няколко племена туземци и описва техния живот, като набляга на отношенията между мъжете и жените. Интересно четиво, в което ще намерите шокиращи паралели със съвременния живот и ще разберете, че може да имаме коли и телефони, но сме си хора такива, каквито явно сме били преди сто, и преди сто хиляди години.
Read certain chapters for one of my summer classes - interesting and definitely worth getting from the library, especially when one hears the back story on Malinowski himself and what he did while doing this ethnography that is *not* included in the book ... very scandalous!
For some classic knowledge on sex from an anthropological point of view. Being an anthro and sociology minor, I of course found this very interesting.
An early anthropological view of how relationships develop among the Trobriand people and why they exist. Recommended for those interested in looking at themselves through a fun mirror.
Part 5, chapter 4 "Of Woman Born".Mentioned in reference to the belief that pregnancy was not related to sexual contact. Rather a woman was impregnated by the spirits of the dead.
fantastic view of a society vanished just after the writing of the book.
