https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/868921.The_Imaginary
if you want an introductory sartre text this is it- while he is figuring it out he writes it out. sort of like a precursor to being and nothingness. he is an excellent writer, i think his rhetorical skill serves his ideas rather than obscures, he is the easiest existentialist to read.
In psychology, Sartre is sure different than the "old shaman" Jung.
Being the atheistic existentialist, Sartre doesn't think we can transcend projection.
"When will the beloved become in turn the lover?
The answer is easy: when the beloved projects being loved." Actually, that quote is from Being and Nothingness.
Sartre has a lot of profound things to say about love.
And yet, if love is nothing more than projecting ourselves onto the other, there can be no mystical connection.
Interesting book, though, "The Imaginary..." Easier to find this book under the title, "The Psychology of the Imagination."
In the tradition of Rene Descartes, Jean-Paul Sartre in The Imaginary added his insights into the philosophy of mind through his analysis of the imaging consciousness. In particular, his discussions on the differences among perception, conception and imagining identify the nuances among these modes of consciousness. Though he didn’t have as much empirical data from neurobiology as we have nowadays in the age of AI, his ideas provide some fundamentals of the philosophy of mind that help us understand about how we form images in our minds. Recommended for those interested in the philosophy of mind as well as existentialism.
you need a clear mind to start with this book.
Thus the situation of consciousness must appear not as a pure and abstract condition of possibility for all of the imaginary, but as the concrete and precise motivation for the appearance of a certain particular imaginary.From this point of view, we can finally grasp the connection of the irreal to the real.
First of all, even if no image is produced at the moment, every apprehension of the real as a world tends of its own accord to end up with the production of irreal objects since it is always, in a sense, free nihilation of the world and this always from a particular point of view.
I hated reading this, and I really wanted to like it (I bought my copy at Green Apple Books in SF 12 or 13 years ago, in the throes of my existentialist obsession that prefigured my phenomenological & epistemological interests, hoping that it would somehow unlock a part of Sartre for me otherwise unobtainable.
The arguments he lays out and the very methodical way he structures his ideas are neat, but I would come back to it every time with so little memory of what he was building.
I will certainly come back to this when I have more patience and when I don’t have so many more pressing and meaningful things to devote (reading) time to.
التخيل او المعرفة بالصورة تأتي من الذهن أنه الذهن وقد أوقع على الانطباع الحاصل في الدماغ الذي يعطي وعيا بالصورة وهذه الصورة كذلك ليست موضوعه امام الوعي بنحو الموضوع الجديد للمعرفة على رغم ما لها من صفة كونها واقعة جسدانية فذلك كان سيدفع إلى ما لا نهاية إمكانية علاقة الوعي بموضوعاته وإنما هي تملك هذه الخاصه الغريبه بكونها قادرة على استحثاث أفعال الروح بالحركات الدماغية إذ تكون قد سببتها مواضيع خارجيه على ما هي ليست تشمل على شبيهاتها فهي توقظ في النفس أفكارا والأفكار تأتي من الحركات....
الخبرة الاستبطانية هي الأروع بلا شك في فهم كيف تتجلى الصورة ومن قبل ماهيتها وهل تعد الصورة هي التخيل
Prima caratteristica: l'immagine è una forma di conoscenza, p.18)Sartre, a differenza di Merleau-Ponty, non prende in considerazione il pensiero di Scheler, e pertanto il suo discorso fenomenologico è principalmente imbevuto della terminologia husserliana, in particolar modo laddove si afferma che "ogni coscienza sia coscienza di qualche cosa": c'è sempre un termine di relazione, un oggetto tra noi e la realtà.
Buku wajib untuk membuka kesadaran antara ruang riil dan nonriil dalam kerangka eksistensialisme. Juga titik di mana keduanya membentuk hubungan segitiga dengan kita sebagai subjek kesadaran. Menarik mengetahui Sartre memilah lapisan hubungan antarsubjek dan imajinasi sebagai objek sekaligus ruang di mana segalanya mengada. Namun menurut saya buku ini bisa menjadi sangat sulit dipahami jika pembaca sebelumnya tidak memiliki informasi tentang definisi 'subjek' dan 'objek' dalam eksistensialisme. Jadi ini adalah buku dasar, tapi saya kira bukan buku pertama yang harus dibaca untuk mengenal Sartre.
A great introduction to Sartre's later thought.
روان شناسی تخیل از اولین آثار سارتر محسوب می شود که همراه "خیال"، اثر دیگری که در همان دوران، و در چارچوب فلسفه ی سارتر (اگزیستانسیالیسم و آزادی بشر) نوشته شده است. با وجودی که تقریبن همه ی آثار معروف سارتر به فارسی ترجمه شده، روان شناسی تخیل یکی از چند رساله ی مهم اوست که در فارسی ندیده ام.در مورد ژان پل سارتر، مطلبی جداگانه نوشته ام؛ http://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
A very intuïtive phenomenology, with lush descriptions and clear intentions. Though it never quite reaches that level of phenomenological brilliance as Husserl, it still is a fun and perhaps inspiring read. His notion of nothingness is being developed here, in ways reminiscent of Hegel. It becomes a bit naïve - especially here, the parts on nothingness and the freedom that goes along with it are oh so odd; supposedly its crucial elements.
Another good piece from him, again. Honestly, this is elementary (and i please everybody to read this) and quite good as introductory for neophyte, before try to another Sartre (or another philosophy).All you need is thinking and imagination (or sort of, this book escort you to try imagine sth)Happy reading.
Quite a detailed account of the imagination from a philosopher's perspective. Mostly comprehensible. Introduces Sartre's famous depiction of consciousness as the confrontation with nothingness. The imaginary is the non-existant but attempts to postulate being.
Semoga dapat menjadi tambahan amunisi soal pemahaman logika dan imajinasi.
Ficción y realidad (y sus relaciones) son los objetos de estudio existencial para Sartre, a través del retrato, el signo, los dibujos, los sueños, las obras de arte, lo imaginario.
Affascinante e originalissima teoria sull'immagine in prospettiva fenomenologica.
My favorite Sartre book. A must read for artists.
Read again...
One of my favourite Sartres - very intuitive, not too technical. A good introductory book.
