https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76980.What_Happened_at_Midnight
Another excellent adventure with Frank and Joe - this time they team up with the FBI to bust a smuggler ring! The adventure includes Joe getting kidnapped and rescued, takes them to NYC trailing the bad guys on a shoestring budget, and on a wild sky chase in a bi-plane! One of our favorites! Looking forward now to #11!
A really fun and enjoyable addition to the Hardy Boys mystery book series.
I this story, amateur detectives Frank and Joe Hardy are asked by their detective father to secure a secret radio from his clients house.
Frank and Joe have to capture the smugglers and save the radio.
I liked this story because it was an easy read, but not boring.
One weakness of the Hardy Boys book to me, is their length.
I will continue to read the Hardy Boys books because they are fun to read and I enjoy reading mysteries.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is looking for an easy, fun read.
I said it before, I'll say it again - I really want more of these of the old vintage variety. Wow, what they did to 'modernize' and 'shorten' the Hardy Boys down in later years was a crime. I really loved this one, lots of suspense, a lot more danger, and a great mystery. The details of a different era just made it that much better - turning this into a historical mystery of sorts. Good heavens, do yourself a favor and track down the OLD copies of these books!
A Quickie ReviewThis series is pretty much Pete and Repeat; this book is once again more of the same...but that isn't a bad thing.Content Concerns: See my previous reviews.
Interesting story. There are smugglers, Joe gets kidnapped and they don't know how to find him, and lots of action. Not my favorite HB story, but it was fun.
This story was probably a 3+ but the reader was annoying? How does this get through? Sometimes its ok to not use voices. Especially dont use them when your voices suck.
Hardy Boys series saved the day when some of my fellows used to force me into Nancy Drew. I still hate Nancy Drew but Hardy Boys! Its an all-time-favourite! Their adventures and mysteries are always new, interesting, suspenceful and highly entertaining! I can read these series anytime and enjoy them to the fullest.

this was one of my favorits because this time the Hardy boy team up with a very expirenced crime fighting group, the FBI. this time the hardys and the FBI work together to catch a world wide criminal stugglers gang.
2.5 stars Maybe it's the nostalgia. I've found that I can reread Nancy Drew as an adult and still enjoy them, but I can't find the same appeal in the Hardy Boys stories. I can see why kids would like it, but I'm obviously not the right audience. To its credit it is more action-packed then any ND story I can recall. However, Frank and Joe are not as clever and charming as Nancy.
The mother in me flinched quite a bit during this book.Frank and Joe took a job that lasted only a few hours and hitched a ride from strangers who turned out to be FBI agents following the same bad guys.
And then the wanted criminals who had left Bayport for New York, decided to come back to Bayport and visit the scene of the crime, which is when Frank and Joe called the same FBI agents they had hitchhiked with.
A bystander told the brothers that the blonde man was trying to eavesdrop.Plot:The book had a very exciting and ironic plot.
Two brothers, Frank and Joe, had to steal a secret invention to protect it from thieves.
When the brothers heard about the blonde man snooping on their conversation, Frank remained calm and thought of a plan to trick the man.
The detective duo of Frank and Joe was really strong throughout the book.
Towards the end of the book, the two brothers learned some street skills and to never underestimate people.Recommendation:I recommend this book to people who enjoy mystery novels.
Dixon is a good book writer with the many books and series that he has written like The Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew.
This book is one of my favorites for a reason and it's a very good story and it leaves the reader in awe after reading those last few pages and laughing at them thought the whole book.
I do recommend this book to anyone who likes mysteries and you get sucked into the book easily.
Anyone could like the books because they always have a mystery.
Continuing on my uest to re-read the 190 Hardy Boys books of my youth...
What Happened at Midnight is classic Hardys tale that begins with the boys heading on a mission to "steal" an inventor's invention while he is out of town to keep it safe.
This is one of the original 1920s era Hardy Boys books that was not only updated but completely re-written so if you find an older "brown cover" edition of What Happened at Midnight that story is quite different from the blue cover edition!
This was my first Hardy Boys book. Weird, right? I'd never read them and I've still never read a Nancy Drew mystery. Don't worry, it's on the list though. The story itself was good, but lacked what I've grown accustomed to in a modern novel -- lots of details about emotions and greater realism. Also, there were a few things we had to consult my dad about, such as, what is a ham man? These are a good link with previous generations of readers with consistently engaging and entertaining mysteries.
I loved this book for many reasons, I think it is one of the best books in the Hardy Boys series yet. Like the others it was full with mystery, danger, and Hardy-fun. But this time they added more danger to the boys, especially Joe and had some unexpectful help from a friend. I won't spoil the mystery for anyone and even though all their mysteries to seem to be familiar,this one just added so much more I can't wait to read book 11!
This installment in the Hardy series was kind of a let down story-wise. Not a lot of plot, just a lot of trailing baddies in the air, on trains, and on the ground. However, the progression to dementia continues unabated. Frank and Joe each get a coldcock in this book, and are well on their way to being drooling vegetable by the time they turn 21.KO count:Book: 2Series: 9
After their father asks Frank and Joe to take the role of burglars in order to protect the invention of his latest client, the boys end up getting into trouble with REAL burglars! Dixon is sure to have fans begging for more with this exciting entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
More fun with Frank and Joe Hardy.
Jewel smugglers! It's always smugglers. A whole ring of them. A ring of jewelry smugglers... eh? eh?
Lots of twists and turns in this mystery for Frank and Joe. A secret invention, diamond smuggling, and adventures galore!
Restarted Hardy Boys Series after 8 years and wanted to check out whether I still find it insteresting or not. My 4 stars are enough. Great job by the author.
A much more complex plot than previous Hardy Boys stories.
How the Hardy Boys survived to adulthood is amazing when you consider the number of fights, concussions and other injuries sustained in this book alone
A nice adventure with the Hardys breaking up a smuggling ring. The boys got to skydive out of a broken plane and still outsmarted the career criminal mastermind.
I don't think I've ever read the Hardy Boys before, if I did it was years ago. Not bad, though I didn't like some of the narrators voices.
Great book. Good suspense throughout and good ending.
What Happened at MidnightFranklin Dixon always does a good job thinking of interesting topics for the Hardy boys to go on.
Now I understand how scary and how much people worry and what they do to try to find you.I have always been a fan of Franklin Dixon's books in the past because the books are so interesting.
The last couple sentences keep the reader thinking and wanting to read more of his books.I strongly recommend What Happened at Midnight to anybody.
Even if you aren’t a big fan in Mystery books I think you will enjoy these books.
