https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1228331.Trader_to_the_Stars
Poul Anderson created three pivotal characters (David Falkayn, Nicholas van Rijn, and Dominic Flandry) as a part of his Technic future history and central to a full appreciation of his work is to understand how each of these three impacted his vision.
Van Rijn is the romanticized extreme of this concept and in him Anderson has created one of science fiction’s most intriguing and complex characters.
There are three short stories, “Territory” is very good, but the best may be “The Master Key” and this has trace elements of Joseph Conrad, as if the old mariner could write a science fiction novel and his Congo had become an un-mapped planet.
Nicholas van Rijn is a tough old trader. He would have been at home trading by sailing ship in the 18th or 19th century. Instead, he's the captain of a starship. His shrewdness is amazing. He meets 3 different challenges in 3 different stories in this book. All interesting & typically well written. His speech is a lot of fun, too.This is early in the Polytechnic League books, I think. It certainly comes before A Knight of Ghosts and Shadows which is next on my list. It's been far too long since I read these.
When I was a teenager, I though Nicky van Rijn was cool (but Anderson's 007, Dominic Flandry was even more cool or so I thought).But times have changed and my critical faculties have improved.
Don't get me wrong; I'm not suggesting that socialism is somehow automatically better than capitalism, but it's rather convenient in Anderson's stories that everything turns out for the best in the end, after Nicky van Rijn gets his cut of the profits.The one redeeming point of these stories is Anderson's attention to scientific detail and his use of that to drive the stories along and keep the reader's interest.
Instead of a regular review of Trader to the stars, i've decided to frame this as a response to an existing reader review that can be found here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...It was only in reading this review, and disagreeing with many of its main points, that my own understanding of what I liked about this book crystalised into something I could put into words, so it's worth linking to - even if I believe Andrew has managed to misinterpret the text itself.If there is a single theme in this work it is that we view the world through perceptions filtered by our own situation - our environment, our upbringing, the way we live and think, all has a massive effect on how we see the world.
Irascible, corpulent, avaricious, lustful and a mangler of the English language ("Gabriel will tootle before I get your bepestered Anglic through this poor noggin"), Nicholas van Rijn is the central character in this tryptic of 1960s short SciFi stories.
Hiding Place is an amusing 'where's the crew amongst a ship full of alien beasts'; Territory has the hook of what happens to the 'masters' on a technologically primitive but culturally advanced planet when humans arrive; and The Master Key (oh, ha ha) looks at how 'our way' of doing things might look to 'others'.
Three short shories about Nicholas van Rijn, the title trader.All three revolve about contact with aliens, and his working out what to do.
Very different in other respects.
The first involves discovering which alien beings are the sophonts hiding among animals.
The second, an attack on an alien world.
The third, his hearing the account of fighting on an alien world and working out what happened.And in the midst of it all, though not so much from his point of view, we get the boisterous, superstitiously pious, endlessly lamenting his hard work and danger of poverty, van Rijn.
Quite a character.
The stories here and in the other books in this same universe are often re-skinned Westerns or Explorer tales, with alien races standing in for the “uncivilized” natives who deserve to be both bamboozled and enslaved, forcefully brought into a galactic society because that’s clearly what’s good for them, whether they realize it or not.
The world is designed for Van Rijn’s pleasure and exploitation, and if you have to kill a few aliens or destroy a culture in order to get them to buy your beads while you take their land, then so be it.Here’s the plot of the opening story: Van Rijn was investigating a hostile sector of the galaxy for new trade routes and his ship is on the run from enemy ships.
Nicholas Van Rijn; Libertarian, Capitalist, free-market specialist. CEO of Solar Spice and Liquors, and member of the Polesotechnic League, an organization of interstellar merchants who trade throughout the galaxy. Van Rijn is a pudgy, loud, hilarious, logophile. He is not your typical swashbuckler, but still loves the ladies. Fun read.
3.5 stars. Fun, pulpy 60's sci-fi, with some interesting themes and good action, not generally to be taken too seriously. The protagonist, Nicholas Van Rijn, is a slovenly, swashbuckling, chauvinistic spice trader with a tinge of Sherlock Holmes. He draws on logic and his vast experiences of interstellar exploits to solve, and profit from, varied crises among alien cultures.
Poul is too clunky. Everybody fluffs him up, but he's not my cup of tea: DNF.
The good old stuff. Don't read if you like your books to do your thinking for you.
Which caused me inordinate trouble, but more on that in a minute.It's actually collection of three short stories from the Polesotechnic League Saga.
(Book logging is very good for my memory, which is why I do it.)I wasn't super drawn in by the stories - the protagonist is yet another Flashman/Jubal Harshaw smart fat man who drinks a lot and eats a lot and is awful to females, who find him irresistible.
But ha ha, joke's on me, "The Master Key" isn't in that collection, it's in David Falkayn: Star Trader.
Even though I don't have the faintest idea who David Falkayn is and he's not in the story.Which is to say, hunting that down was unnecessarily frustrating.
This book contains three related 1961 novellas of Nicholas Van Rijn, capitalist adventurer of the interstellar Polesotechnic League.
The crew has hidden itself among the animals, and the science mystery is to discover which they are.Territory - Nicholas and a pretty young biotechnician are attacked by the natives of an ammonia-enveloped planet.
How will he manipulate them so as to become free again?The Master Key - From the comfort of his penthouse, Van Rijn puzzles out the mystery of a first-contact conflict involving his adult son.
Nicholas Van Rijn: love him or hate him, you can't ignore him ...
and I have to admit, I love the big, noisy, rude, crude, hilarious, brilliant and outrageous character.
I bought the three big hardcover anthologies that were done a few years ago (incorporating also the stories featuring Old Nick's son-in-law, David Falkayn), and have read them several times.
The stories in Trader to the Stars go back a loooong way now, which really serves to underscore that characters who are truly grand transcend time.
This is a very slim volume, a good introduction to this character and this universe: highly recommended.
A collection of three short science fiction stories involing Nicholas van Rijn of a trading league. This food and alcohol loving trader solves problems involving other species on different planets. While striving to turn a profit, he always has an eye for the ladies.
I liked this science fiction book of space-faring traders. I especially liked the challenge in the first story of trying to determine who were the crew and the cultural misunderstandings depicted in the last story. I look forward to reading the first book in the series, War of the Wing-Men.
Did I struggle with this one. I found it tedious. The main character was unlikable to say the least. At only 159 pages its short, even then I nearly couldn't be bothered to finish it. Ah well on to the next one.
Great stories. You may know what I mean by saying these are real Analog mafia sort of stories. I think a better presentation, like the recent re-release books The Van Rijn Method etc. might improve the stories.
Revisiting my youth.
I am not a fan to Poul Anderson by himself, this book rambled on a little for me and not a very long one too so just a quick entertaining and fun.
Three long short stories, one of which was in "The Van Rijn Method" and 2 that were in "David Falkayn : Star Trader"
This is really three short novellas. It wasn't the most exciting of space operas, but it was right up my alley- aliens in cultural conflict. A whole star for the term 'fig pluckers'.
Grade B. Short novel. Book B2.
Nice stories about different races and how easy it is to misspeak if you come from different background.
