https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25813937-glory-over-everything
JUST ....OH MY GOSH.....***SOOOOOO GOOD***!!!!!!Anyone who read "The Kitchen House", and found it hard to put down....(pre-civil war, set on a Southern plantation ....black slaves...with catastrophe after catastrophe), ....will 'not' be disappointed - at all- with "The Glory of Everything".
The story takes off where "The Kitchen House" ends...but absolutely this is also a stand alone novel.
Kathleen Grissom gives readers a 'golden- escape-reading-treat', with her talents.,Forgive me...
[note: all the important juicy themes which can add up to a 'favorite fiction' read...if written by the right person], which it was.
It it through memorable characters who in my view are the real heroes that we get a sense of this horrific time : Henry , a runaway slave , a loving father and good man; Sukey , beautiful Sukey, also a character from the first book , whose story will break your heart and leave you wondering how with such a burden of sorrow she can move forward with strength and heart and do what she does for others ; Pan, Henry's son, a precocious boy always questioning but somehow knowing what is the right thing to do and the brave people along the Underground Railroad - these are the heroes.
I have always had a soft spot when it comes to slavery stories.
In this narrative, a missing negro boy sends Burton, a black man so fair skinned he has been living the life of a white man, on a search back to the southern states where his freedom is threatened from a past he left behind.
But return he must, to try and track down the boy who has suspiciously disappeared and is suspected of being enslaved.The stories cross over.
We learn of Burton and how he denied his own ancestry in order to survive in the white Man's world and the truths that threaten to emerge.
I liked this technique as it allowed me to learn a great deal more about the innermost thoughts of those characters that perhaps, due to their circumstances, would otherwise be less illuminated.
Pan is another for whom I felt a soft spot, not unlike that which James perhaps perceived in his heart as well.
I would be interested to learn how the relationship continues to change between Pan and James.
While this is a stand-alone novel, I recommend that you read The Kitchen House first, in order to gain a better perspective on the background of some of the characters.
The sun came up like gold through the trees, and I felt like I was in heaven.” – Harriet TubmanThis beautiful quote introduces the sequel to The Kitchen House.
They tell stories of taking strides toward freedom and the cost for some as well as the triumph for others.”I looked at my hands to see if I was the same person now I was free.
The sun came up like gold through the trees, and I felt like I was in heaven.” – Harriet TubmanThe same as the opening quote, yet with lifetimes more in meaning.
I really enjoyed this but not as much as The Kitchen House. I adored Pan and would love to see a follow up to his story down the road. This can be read as a stand alone novel but recommend reading, or even, rereading The Kitchen House first. 4 stars.
Dare I say I this is a case where the sequel is better than the original?Told through the perspectives of several narrators, Grissom tells the story of a family woven together (and torn apart) by the horrors of slavery in 1830's America.
As in Grissom's earlier work, it's a plot-driven novel with many compelling and interconnected story lines.
While providing a tidy enough ending for this book, Grissom has also left the door wide open for a third installment in the series.
While I was provided a galley I listened to the audio version.
I started reading it on my trip to CA, but couldn't get into it.
Started it again once I was back and I couldn't put it down.
Glory picks up after The Kitchen House and follows Jamie Pyke as he navigates life after escaping Rankin, Master Marshall, and the plantation he lived on.
I loved this one so much more than The Kitchen House-- how is that even possible?
The final third, I couldn't turn the pages fast enough to find out how Grissom would end this one.
I was satisfied with the ending and hope that Grissom continues with telling us Addy's story next.
I chose to listen to a finished audio copy.Jamie Pike from The Kitchen House is now James Burton, wealthy silversmith and artist of Philadelphia.
I think I liked this more than the original, even though I've given them both 4 stars.
There are some wonderful characters that we get to know, and James, although very well formed and sympathetic, was probably my least favorite, when compared to the truly great (and not as well formed) Robert, Pan, Addy, and Sukie.
The story picks up many years after the The Kitchen House and we follow the life of Jaime Pyke who has moved to Philadelphia.
I was glad that the author provided back story to Jaime’s life as it has been quite some time since I read The Kitchen House.
The book kept reminding of the issues still concerning racism in our country.You do not have to have read The Kitchen House to enjoy this book.
The author provides a lot of background to all of the characters.
I really enjoyed the The Kitchen House and I loved this one.
You can read it as a standalone but I found it richer having read The Kitchen House first.
A black man, son of the Master raised as white by his grandmother.
It's 1830 and he is living as a white man constantly looking over his shoulder fearing discovery.
When a long time debt that needs to be repayed brings him back to the south it becomes fraught with danger, secrets and difficult memories.
You don't often get all that in one book.
It will stay with me for a long time.
I was delighted to learn what becomes of Jamie from The Kitchen House.
He is now James Burke, passing for a white man and ends up doing quite well for himself, though he continues to hide the secret of his parentage.
Yet, Grissom makes him a believable character, like him or not.
Pan was a delight to meet, full of the adoration and wonder of youth, until he sees first hand how cruel life could be.
For me these characters were much more comfortable in their skin than James/Jamie.
Grissom fulfilled my hopes of life after The Kitchen House.
The sun came up like gold through the trees, and over the fields, and I felt like I was in heaven.”-Harriet TubmanI absolutely loved The Kitchen House and was thrilled when I heard Kathleen Grissom was writing a sequel.
James embarks on a dangerous journey to save Pan, the son a friend to whom he owed his very life.I really liked this book but I’m not sure I loved quite as much as The Kitchen House.
For example, while I could understand his reasons for wanting to maintain his identity as a white man, I took offense at his disdain toward slaves.
This book follows one of the characters in the first book over several decades.There is a good story idea here – Jamie / James is a “runaway” slave who is so light-skinned as to be able to pass for white, and he makes a success of himself in Philadelphia.
I was caught up in the story and wanted to know how things would turn out, and how the characters would fare.
Grissom has said in numerous interviews that her characters “spoke” to her, and revealed the story in their own way.
In summary, it’s a good story and kept me turning pages, but the writing fell short.
James is the son of the Tall Oaks plantation owner and one of his slaves, raised as white by his paternal grandmother, who escapes the South just as he is about to be sold as a slave.James makes it to Philadelphia where he is helped by Henry, an older escaped slave who lives in fear himself of being recaptured and returned to the South.
James, who is something of an artist, is able to apprentice with a silversmith and begin a new life.Years later, Henry approaches the now wealthy James 'Burton' to take in his motherless son, Pan, and give him a safe place to live, work and perhaps receive an education.
Jamie, Sukey, Belle, Henry, the Tall Oakes plantation - they are all revisited and brought back to life.
As a favor to Henry, James takes in his son Pan as kitchen help.
Upon finding his aristocrat girlfriend pregnant, Jamie's life changes and before he can reveal to Catherine his true identity Pan, trying to do a good deed at the docks, manages to get stolen by slave traders.
Henry and Jamie go on the hunt for Pan. James ends up back in the Tall Oakes area where he knows he is still being sought as a runaway.
Long time readers of my blog may remember that I loved Kathleen Grissom's book, The Kitchen House when I read it back in January 2012.
In Glory Over Everything, the sequel to The Kitchen House, Grissom brings back some of her beloved characters and weaves a new story that was even more riveting and hard to put down than the first book.
There are still some gritty scenes but Grissom focuses quite a bit on the intense fear of being thrown back into slavery that many free slaves struggled with on a daily basis.The secondary characters all play pivotal roles in the plot and are each quite engaging with Jamie's butler, Robert, being my favourite.
Huge love and gratitude to Netgalley, Kathleen Grissom, Simon & Shuster, for providing me with this incredible book that consumed my life for a couple of days and will continue to occupy a piece of my heart and mind for a long time to come....The Glory over Everything gets 5 bursting-at-the-seams stars from me, for the beautiful characters who stole my heart, for the fast pace, for the comfortable flow of the written words and dialect, for the intensity of the plot, the personal growth of the characters, the hint of a changing society, and the emotion it pulled from me (and let me tell you, there are two separate lines within the final couple of chapters that took me by surprise and made me gasp, cry outright and then sob !) My only criticism (and please take this as a huge compliment too!) is that I wanted more of Pan !
Slavery, such an abhorrent institution, the thought that one person can own another and that they feel they have that right is horrifying.
While reading this I couldn't help but ask myself if I had been raised during this time what would I have thought.
Robert, a black man, a man I would wish on my side no matter the circumstance and Adelaide, a young Southern girl, who is a handful, opinionated and wonderful.
There is much on race of course, the differing opinions, degrees of acceptance, even in the North where slavery was not supposed to be accepted.
Mix race ancestry, free black children and the constant threat of slave catchers kidnapping people off the streets of Philadelphia, this story pursues the urgent need to reclaim a black boy kidnapped and sold into southern slavery even at the risk of becoming a victim oneself. This was just a bit too predictable. The voices of the various narrators never sounded authentic, but rather as amateur approximations of parody. And, there were simply too many coincidences necessary to advance the plot for my taste.
Oh gosh. I'm so glad I got to continue on with some of the characters from The Kitchen House. Again, SO MUCH happened in this short book. How can she pack so much in without it seeming overkill? Loved it - not as much as The Kitchen House but I think that would be impossible to top.
Several characters introduced in the first book are mentioned in “Glory” but the main focus lies with young Jaime Pyke, a boy raised in the big house at Tall Oaks, assuming he was white until his heritage was revealed and he escaped the plantation before being sold into slavery.
I found this second novel was slow to start and I struggled to stay interested in the upper-class life in which James finds himself.
The three dimensional characters and resulting emotional attachments seen in The Kitchen House are lacking in this novel.
Glory Over Everything is the exquisite and very praiseworthy second book by author Kathleen Grissom.
I’m glad she decided to write a story that picks up where the Kitchen House left off.
Kathleen Grissom keeps on amazing me with her gift of simple but splendid story-telling.
It’s difficult to explain, but the time you spend with her words, you are literally transported into the story with so much pull, that when the book’s finished, you are simply left bereft.The story of Jamie Pike, son of Tall Oaks plantation owner Marshall and Belle, a slave, is quite extraordinary.
So good!
A novel of family and long-buried secrets along the treacherous Underground Railroad.The author of the New York Times bestseller and beloved book club favorite The Kitchen House continues the story of Jamie Pyke, son of both a slave and master of Tall Oakes, whose deadly secret compels him to take a treacherous journey through the Underground Railroad.Published in 2010, The Kitchen House became a grassroots bestseller.
Meanwhile, Caroline’s father learns and exposes Jamie’s secret, and Jamie loses his home, his business, and finally Caroline.Heartbroken and with nothing to lose, Jamie embarks on a trip to a North Carolina plantation where Pan is being held with a former Tall Oakes slave named Sukey, who is intent on getting Pan to the Underground Railroad.
Enjoyable read. I may not have liked it as well as The Kitchen House but I did like it very much. I loved the multi-narrators. Some things were a little too neat and coincidental in regards to the plot.
The story revolves around blacks, those passing as whites, and slavery both in Philadelphia and North Carolina, mid 1800s.
Compulsive and propulsive until the last page, Glory Over Everything rewards the reader with period detail, edge-of-your-seat danger, and profoundly human characters.Jamie Pyke, passing as James Burton, was a minor figure in The Kitchen House.
He is now a white aristocrat artist living in the upper echelon in early nineteenth century Philadelphia.
Multiple first person narratives inform us of James’ back-story and lives of minor characters, some who were introduced in The Kitchen House.
The book can stand alone but I always love hearing bits of a previously read book fall into a new book I'm reading!
I listened to the audio book (both books) and the narrators changed so I was a little thrown off when Lavinia's voice was so different (the original voice was HER) but she's only a very small part of the 2nd book.
James was a little flat but I guess this was just his formal and self-protective nature.
He was a little slow to come to the proper moral conclusions on more than one occasion because his first impulse was always to protect his secret.
This terrific stand alone sequel to The Kitchen House picks up Jamie Pyke, now James Burton as he makes a life for himself in Philadelphia.
Fair skinned enough to pass as white, he nonetheless suffers the guilt and fear that comes with living a lie.
It is there that Jamie grows and matures emotionally, confronting his own prejudices and fears.
I loved this story.
Told in multiple voices, each one rang with real emotion.I would love to see how Jamie's chosen life plays out......would a third story be too much?
A well-done audio and an engaging story. I feel The Kitchen House is the stronger of the two novels but this is a close second. It can definitely be read as a stand alone however I think reading it near to The Kitchen House may give you a better sense of engagement with the characters.
