https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6681454-caught
If you haven't read a Coben novel you're missing out.
Coben is one of the best, if not THE BEST mystery authors out there.
My life goal is to read all his books!
In the beginning of this Dan Mercer goes to a house with a red door....
Wendy Tynes, a high-profile reporter is who was behind that door...
Harlan's books make me want to sit down and read them and try as I might I can never figure out his ending, he ALWAYS throws me a curve ball, but that is why I love him!Highly recommend!
I will probably always recommend a Coben!
Like I said there were two parts to this book.It kind of threw me because I'm not used to that style of writing from him.
But this was just TOO far-fetched this time.One of the best quotes from the book that made me literally laugh out loud and say "so true!" was on page 319:"I remember one time I heard this English professor asking the class what the world's scariest noise is.
And the professor shakes his head and says, 'No, the scariest noise is, you're all alone in your dark empty house, you KNOW you're all alone, you know that there is NO chance anyone else is home or within MILES - and then, suddenly, from upstairs, you hear the toliet flush.'"
I think if I'd read a paper copy I'd have rated more highly.
True to form though, Mr Coben has delivered an enjoyable romp into quite a windy sojourn of twists, turns and cul-de-sacs.Ultimately this book was quite satisfying in terms of the ending, but in getting there I felt it was just too slow.
In a way, it felt like it kept going and going..
Whilst this is not my favourite of this author, I still very much look forward to all the books I've yet to read by one of my top authors, probably the paper version!
Wow! When you read this one you will need to take notes, create a flow chart, etc. and I bet you still won't see anything coming. Not only did keep thinking that I had guessed where the story was going, Coben had me convinced I was right and the BAM! nope . . . wrong again! This happened about 10 times. Only 4 stars because it didn't blow me away, but it was very good.Also, the mid-life crisis men's club was pretty funny. And, bonus appearance by Win from the Bolitar series.
Sub-plots to die for, story arcs only a major leaguer like Coben could pull off, just enough narration and description to keep you on the edge of your seat and guessing WHO.
He's on Twitter too: as @HarlanCoben - http://twitter.com/harlancoben_______________________________________________________________________________________________________I was able to get my hands on Caught by major leaguer Harlan Coben so I'm slotting the reading of it before Kristin Kimball's non-fiction book The Dirty Life.
This story, so far, and I'm just a dozen or so pages in, has the pacing and intrigue hints I love about Coben's work.
I've met single-cell organisms with more going on upstairs than reporter and all around doofus Wendy, but Harlan Coben made her extremely easy to read about.
Oh, and I know Coben has a long-running series, but it was refreshing to read a thriller that wasn't part of a fucking series.
Final Judgment: Stupid is as stupid does, but, here, stupid is sure fun to watch.Spoiler Discussion: Wherein I spoil Caught, by Harlan Coben.(view spoiler)[So I am to believe that after this girl died of alcohol poisoning in Jenna's house that Jenna kept the girl's cell phone?
I read this book while on holiday last year and really enjoyed it.
Quite a few stories intertwining but focusing primarily on a missing girl and a TV program that carries out live child predator stings.
I have seen a few of the Dateline - To Catch a Predator episodes so I found that story-line quite interesting.
There were times I wondered if perhaps the show had read the situation wrong (however unlikely).
I enjoyed the multiple story-lines and many characters.
"Caught" is very fast paced with interesting story-lines and many dysfunctional yet entertaining characters.
3.5 stars Review to follow
This infuriates Ed Grayson - whose son was abused - and he shoots and kills Mercer right in front of Wendy.
And even if he could be, the jury would more likely congratulate him than convict him.Meanwhile, a 17-year-old high school girl named Haley McWaid has been missing for three months.....and new evidence points to Mercer (now dead) as the possible abductor.
Wendy's been re-examining the evidence that Mercer was a pedophile and - in retrospect - it looks inconclusive.
All in all I liked the book pretty well, and it was fun to see Hester Crimstein and Win - who are recurring characters in Coben's books.
Dan Mercer, a dedicated child social worker, is caught in a TV sting operation by Wendy Tynes, a reporter who has made a career of taping and broadcasting supposed pedophiles caught in the act.
Wendy comes off as pretty stereotypical at first, like a female reporter who has no scruples.
Before long, things become, much more complicated than just Dan’s pedophilia charge.As the story progresses, it may very well be the reader who is caught.
The plot races from Dan to his ex- wife to a missing high school girl to Dan’s college buddies to, back and forth, all with Wendy in the middle.
One should only look at who the author is and then immediately would know that they are in for a treat.This book (like all of this author's books) really packs a punch from the first page until, literally, the very last page.
My impression changed swiftly as the plot unravels and my goodness does this plot unravel fast!I highly recommend this book to...well just about anyone.
Those who are new to Harlan Coben, life-long fans, and those who are still left standing in the dark wondering where have all the good authors gone.
Look no further.
New bits of information kept coming all the way until the very end that changed the context of the story & the characters from good guys to villains to people who made good or bad decisions & then just got caught up.
Wow, what a ride!There were quite a few false notes peppered throughout the story.
I kept muttering that she should take notes if her memory was that bad, but 2 friends told me they didn't catch these issues either.The book was very well narrated & I'll definitely look for more by him.
For one thing, a character who speaks in the first person in the prologue immediately fades into the background after I had become intrigued by his story.
Instead, Coben switches to a new character and I couldn't quite get into her.
In this book, he served only as an easy way for the main character to get information that she would have had trouble getting otherwise.
That was the main weakness of the book: the mystery (there was actually more than one) was convoluted and the main character solved it/them without the reader being able to see all her thought processes or problem-solving actions.
Caught is about Reporter Wendy Tynes, who is making a living by bringing down sexual predators on TV sting operations.
When one who is accused of being a pedophile and is tied to the disappearance of a seventeen-year old girl, Wendy is drawn into a deadly mystery and discovering the choices of right and wrong.The story also has a good message about forgiveness, to forgive others for their actions and to also forgive yourself.
A great plot, great story, great characters, and most of all, A GREAT WRITER!!PS, I also forgot to mention that Win (Windsor Horne Lockwood) from the Myron Bolitar series (also by Harlan Coben) makes a cameo appearance in Caught, which I thought was pretty cool!
Harlan Coben takes on the issue of vigilantism in this story about a high profile TV reporter, Wendy Tynes, who entraps men suspected of being child molesters.
Wendy has been successful with these ploys until she catches one Dan Mercer, who protests his innocence and is acquitted, only to find himself the target of outraged parents.
The point of all this is that Wendy may indeed be guilty of fingering an innocent man, and she longs for his forgiveness, and she must reconcile her anger at the drunk driver with her guilt over her mistaken judgment.
ছোট মরিচের ঝাল বেশি - কথাটা হারলান কোবেন এর এই বইটার জনয পরাপুরি সতয। বই এর আকার দেখেইই বই টা হাতে ন
ছোট মরিচের ঝাল বেশি - কথাটা হারলান কোবেন এর এই বইটার জন্য পরাপুরি সত্য। বই এর আকার দেখেইই বই টা হাতে
Harlan Coben is my mystery/thriller writer like Sophie Kinsella and Emily Giffin to my chick lit books. This man keeps getting my attention with his twist and turns. Everyone needs to read his books! Like now!!!!I'm not even going to get into detail about this book because I'm the worse person to explain a mystery without ruining it. Just take my word that you will enjoy it.
My first! .... Yes my first Harlan Coben novel, so far so good.
This took me a long time to read but I really enjoyed it. It kept me guessing till the very end.
I can buy a reporter questioning her headlining pedophile story.
For example, I don't buy for one iota of a second that any reporter - local, national, international, or alien - worth their salt (as main character Wendy is portrayed) does not have a Facebook account...or that they would not know, at the very least, how to use the world's largest networking site.
I loved the "Fathers Club." I'm probably with the vast majority of the music business when I say that I don't think middle-aged white men should be trying to break into the rap sector, but as a reader I appreciated that Ten-a-Fly made the effort.
(Yeah, I didn't list it above, but middle-aged-white-man-rapping is in this book too!
I enjoyed reading this Coben novel.
Lo and hold, he's being setup by Wendy Tynes to be captured on video as a sexual predator.
Dan Mercer is her latest predator/victim.
The novel progresses on to findout if he's in fact the monster that he's being accused of being.Harlan Coben always manages to take the reader on twists and turns that are never seen coming.
If you're a fan of Coben, you will enjoy this book.
Anyway, I did enjoy this book and can't wait to read the next one I have sitting on my shelf somewhere at home.
Seventeen year old Haley is a good girl.
Which is why, when her mother wakes to find she never came home the night before and three months pass with no word everyone assumes the worst.
Wendy Tynes is a reporter on a mission to identify and bring down sexual predators via elaborate and nationally televised -sting operations working with local police her news program caught in the act; she and her team have publicly shamed dozens of men.
Dan Mercer is a social worker who becomes a friend to troubled teens.
Dan becomes her latest target but his story soon becomes tangled in a web of lies.
Good story.
This book was well-paced and I loved the character of Wendy. In some places the focus was kind of all over the place (we had narratives from a variety of characters like Hester) but it all fell into place. The ending made sense and there were many twists and turns throughout the story. This is why I love Coben's books!
Took me a while to get through this, because of various things happening in my life, otherwise I would have read this book a lot quicker.While the premise was good, the story started becoming pretty unbelievable towards the end, and there were just too many characters and mini plots, obscuring the main story. It was OK, nothing special.
This book did not disappoint me, and I think I enjoyed even more than the ones I read before.
A great cast of characters, a great plot, fluidity, and a whole lot of mystery!
I loved every page.The characters were developed so well, and they were so real.
I felt like I could become friends with a lot of the characters in this book.
I feel that this is a must read book for anyone who loves mystery that keeps you guessing the whole time.
Coben seems to have carved himself out a little niche which could be defined as "the fast-paced thriller where seemingly normal people are hiding dark and life-altering secrets".The good: a complex plot that pulls you into different and rather unpredictable directions, many references to current ("current" 4 years ago) social habits and events, from unemployed white collar guys to social networks to viral marketing.The not so good: like 90% of books belonging to the "fast-paced thriller" genre, it's pretty shallow.
For example, one character is introduced as "flamboyant", which is a pretty uncommon word, and only two pages later he is again described as "flamboyant".
The only thing that saved this one from a one-star rating was the narrator.
She was hilarious.
You could hear it in her voice: I know this is ridiculous but I'm doing my best with it.
She even had to rap as a 45 year old white guy who thinks he can fill a niche in the music business.
Even though this was a pretty bad experience, I'm still going to give Tell No One a try, because it's gotten really good reviews from some really good readers.
I think I may have just picked out the dud in the Coben bunch.
Time will tell.
I've always been troubled by news stories that not all who are accused of being pedophiles (or many other crimes but pedophilia is especially onerous) can be 100% proven to be guilty. But even when then proven without a doubt to be not guilty, the accused's life is still permanently ruined. What a perfect way to cause someone's downfall if you were the type of person to want to inflict such damage on someone. Sad but true this does happen in today's world. This book proved my point and held my interest until the end.
Another exciting book by Harlan Coben!! Love his books!! Highly recommended.
But it appears all is not as clear cut and straightforward as Wendy originally thought or would like and so begins the thrill ride of Caught.What I really enjoyed the most about this book, other than the multiple twists, were many of the characters, but most especially Wendy Tynes.
I would really like to read another book featuring Wendy Tynes.
At the end of each chapter the reader is definitely left wanting more as Coben weaves and unravels many twists.
Caught is definitely a well written, quick read.
