https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1287594.Cheerful_Weather_for_the_Wedding
The story was that although her wedding was but a few hours off, the bride couldn't make up her mind whether she should get married or run off with a previous lover, a dithering sort of person whose job took him on great adventures abroad.
He said that even the servants were gossiping about it.She made the right choice, life with an asshole like that couldn't be worsened.This was one of those Bloomsbury set type books just made for a Julian Fellowes tv series starring Dame Maggie Smith (as in Downton Abbey) or similar acerbic old-lady actress plus great costuming.
(Isn't this what everyone fantasizes about when they imagine winning the lottery?) But due to being cheap, I currently have only three Persephone books, and this is the first one I've actually read.
As Seating Arrangements taught me last year, I love novels based around a wedding that throws together a whole group of people, many of whom have some kind of long-simmering feeling for another member of the party.
This one definitely had long-simmering feelings, as well as dramatic revelations and a number of absolutely hilarious servants and wedding guests.
I read this very short novella by a member of the Bloomsbury Group, first published in 1932, at a sitting - the perfect antidote to some of the longer and heavier tomes I've been struggling through lately.
G. Wodehouse, especially during the description of the ghastly homemade lampshade sent to the lucky couple by the wonderfully-named 'Miss Dido Potts-Griffiths'.
However, the tone is rather more bitter than Wodehouse overall.The book is beautifully produced, as always with Persephone, and an added bonus is the fascinating introduction by another Bloomsbury Group writer, Frances Partridge, who must have been 101 when she wrote this piece reminiscing about the author.
This funny and beautifully written novella was first published by Leonard and Virginia Woolf at the 
This must be one of my favorite movies, I've watched it many times; I would love to get my hands on a copy of this book! I love British movies in general, but this one isn't conventional. It doesn't have the kind of happy ending people would expect, it's definitely a story about first love, family, heartbreaks, jealousy, mistakes, new beginnings, summer, weddings, and the weather.
With this novella written around the time Julia Strachey’s own marriage was failing, we can perhaps see her own feelings to marriage and the possibility for happiness.Cheerful Weather for the Wedding takes place over the course of just one day.
These characters of course are of a certain class – and their behaviours perhaps go hand in hand with that, Mrs Thatcham, a wonderfully terrible creation, manages the day with steely brightness she is frequently distracted and vague – telling anyone who will listen; what a good day it is for Dolly’s wedding.
This is the first actual grey-covered Persephone book I've got hold of.
I've read others from the Persephone catalog in different editions (The Shuttle and Miss Buncle's Book were both very good), but I've never actually held one until yesterday, when I signed for my lovely blue inter-library loan envelope.
The action took place all in one house, and the characters with their fixations (especially the brothers fighting over the socks) reminded me of a humorous play.
Despite having plenty of humor, this book is not happy and I can't say I really enjoyed it.
She is nervous, her mother is flitting about oblivious, and another man is just dying to have a word with her.Strachey has an amazing ability to describe her characters so that they are perfectly visible to the reader.
I certainly didn't always enjoy Strachey's observations of these characters, as it seemed so personal, as if I knew them and hated to have their weaknesses exposed.As a side note, I will say that I thought Joseph's explosion weakened the force of the story.
How can one trust him at this point?) It didn't lessen the brilliance of the novella, though, or of Strachey's talent.
The novella takes place over the course of just one afternoon that happens to be the day of Dolly’s wedding.
There’s Joseph, who loves Dolly – but does she really know?
(Mrs Thatcham, hopefully unknowingly, has put all the guests in the same bedroom – oh if only the novel continued what confusion there would be!) Kitty, the loud sister, has opinions on everything, but is light-hearted and fun.
Why is Mrs Thatcham so contradictory – is she simply ruffled in the middle of the kerfuffle, or is there something more going on?While you’re pondering all this, nothing really happens.
The genius lies in Strachey's deftness to weave a story that doesn't make you feel it's the ONLY story of this family, as if they'd be frozen in a time loop forever, replaying the same day over and over for viewers, never anything new to their characters.
Her genius, is in portraying an episode from various others that the Thatcham family (sans father) is sure to experience, long after the reader has left peeking into their window.
Fictionally, the Thatcham's have moved on to more adventures, and you as a reader are sure of it.
Another title from Persephone Books, a British publisher that specializes in bringing women's work from the 1920s and 1930s back into print. This one is proto-Woolfian (that's not quite fair to say, perhaps, because Woolf had already done some of her best work by the time this book was published.) It's a snapshot of a wedding morning--or snapshots from multiple perspectives. Plenty of class tension, quite a few funny moments, and also (of course) the marry-for-security or marry-for-love debate.
A small and elegant novel about a society wedding, sharply observed, often quite funny, and full of interesting characters but rather slight, I felt -- worth reading, but not one of my favorite Persephones.
It's a beautiful Persephone edition and the name Strachey seemed familiar (author's uncle was a contempary of Bloomsbury group).
An interesting little read.
I actually rather enjoyed the forward by Frances Partridge about the author.
In the forward the bride's mother was meant to be based on the author's mother-in-law.
Apparently Virginia Woolf called the author a 'gifted wastrel'.
Interesting...Edit: Would you believe I read this book, released it last year and didn't update this journal?
Nothing new...Actually I gobbled this wee book up.
It's been over a year since I read it and still I can summon the story to mind.
A comic novella about an English wedding. The wind is cold and the characters come alive in this brief story. There's a lot of drinking and remorse and some twists along the way. Recommend.
Reading this has left me vaguely unsettled. I've never read a novella before and find myself dissatisfied with the entire affair. So many questions left unanswered! Was Joseph telling the truth at the end? Was Dolly? What became of them? I'm amazed such a small book could envoke so many feelings! I will definelty be looking for more by this author.
Persephone publishes rediscovered classics with a leaning toward female authors and experiences.
Besides this book, I've bought a few others from them for my TBR pile.
This is a short one, originally published in 1932 and rereleased by Persephone in 2007, and has a lovely preface by Frances Partridge, Julia's lifelong friend.The action all takes place on the wedding day of 22-year-old Dolly Thatcham, and all occurs in her home before marriage.
So much is going on here in such a subtle way that it shows the wonderful talents of the author.
An amazing little book, and hugely enjoyable.
This was a rather darling little book, despite the issues I had with it, the main one being the ending.
Also, the final revelation was just a little, well, off, and the way it was written left me with the feeling that it just didn't quite fit with the rest of the book.
But oh, the delight of the scene with the bride preparing to turn up for her wedding after consuming half a bottle of rum, with her bouquet in one hand and the rest of the bottle in the other.
Review first posted on BookLikes: http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...Hmm, I picked this up by chance, without knowing much about it. It is the story of a wedding party who receive a guest - a young man who still harbors feelings for the bride.So. amidst the stress of getting the family ready for the wedding - including a couple of boisterous schoolboys - the story tries to focus on the will-they-won't-they tension between the guest and the bride...and it this question that just manages to keep the story going.It's an easy read for a lazy afternoon but neither that cheerful or gripping.
A short but sweet novel about the build up to a 2pm wedding. For me this just didn't get going and I found myself caring very little for the characters or what was happening! There were the odd moments where my interest started to be sparked but then that quickly faded and it all just became too much like a not very funny farce!A quick and easy book to read though if you're looking to pass a couple of hours but not my favourite Persephone
Más que libro sería un relato corto de las últimas horas de una novia de los años 30/40 donde la única gracia por mi parte era saber si el amigo de Dolly, la novia, acabaría parando la boda y declarando su amor o dejaría pasar la oportunidad.Lo único que salva al libro tras descripciones de lo más empalagoso es descubrir detalles sobre la sociedad de esos años, por lo demás no le he visto la gracia.
Reprinted by Persephone Books, a small publisher which reprints "forgotten twentieth century novels" by women, and thank God for that because this novella originally published in 1932 by Virginia Woolf is very good. Taking place over just a few hours in the disorganized household of the widowed Mrs. Thatcham, who is marrying off her daughter Dolly to some anonymous successful diplomat, it is catty, humorous, witty, and perfectly dreadful.
Charming. Witty. A little sad and dead accurate on the way people think and act. If you like domestic fiction like Dorothy Whipple or Barbara Pym or anything that Persephone publishes-pick up this novella and relax. You are in good hands.
In less than 100 pages Julia successfully manages to amuse and shock the readers.In the first page we are told -At the beginning of the wedding morning it was grey and cold.But yet as we read through the book we find the weather being described as cheerful instead several times by the brides mother.What seems cheerful according to Mrs. Thatcham is funny.Mrs. Thatcham as we see seems to be quite overwhelmed by the wedding preparations.
She has no memory of her last word upon these matters, we see her constantly blaming  Mrs. Millman, the parlour-maid for her own confusion.As we read through the pages, we are taken to thought of several other protagonist.
I found this very short book more chaotic than witty with a nasty turn at the end. 2 1/2 ⭐️
You see loads of little nuances and problems-that-seem-to-have-no-cause without really knowing the people involved, like you are a fringe guest.
You meet the ex-boyfriend who can't seem to figure out if he still loves the bride or simply wants what he can't have and seem to follow his journey more than the bride herself (again, a common thing of guests- prior to the wedding, you see very little of the bride).
All in all, a very good read and a bit of fun (especially if, like me, you have been a bride/groom and can relate to the madness of a wedding).
Delightfully observed and beautifully written, Cheerful Weather for the Wedding is a story about a middle-class bourgeois family on the day of a wedding.
Cheerful Weather for the Wedding is really just a perfect little book as the humor and the sadness are exquisitely aligned.
One grim, blustery morning, 23 year old Dolly is preparing for her wedding.
She is not so much relucant as she is apathetic; silent and detached, while she nurses a deep secret.
Meanwhile, the entire household quavers like a disembowelled spirit, sensing disquiet yet unable to name it.
In the opening chapter, Dolly finds a forgotten handbag from yesteryear, a poignant metaphor for her life to be left behind.
Disappointingly, all she finds are fluff, biscuit crumbs, an old bus ticket and a letter from her mother – a constant reminder of what is expected behaviour of a lady in her social standing.
This is the story of a day in the life of the Thatcham family, in their English country house.
It is however, no ordinary day in their lives.
The eldest daughter of the family, Dolly, is to be married that morning.
The house is inundated with quirky guests who say and do the most unusual things.
A ex-beau, Joseph, is plucking up the courage to speak to Dolly.
As the time for leaving the house for the wedding ceremony approaches, we wonder what else might occur on this unusual wedding day.
Will Joseph be able to unburden his heart to Dolly?Full review at http://bagfullofbooks.com/2015/11/13/...
Novella, a snapshot of a wedding day - all the action takes place before and after the wedding, at the bride's home.
The wedding day is somehow not quite a catastrophe in spite of everything.
Julia Strachey was closely connected to the Bloomsbury group and this novel was first published by the Hogarth Press in 1932 (it is a little reminiscent of Virginia Woolf but perhaps with a bit more bite).
Unfortunately Julia Strachey did not go on to write much more, and she isn't as well-known as she might have become if she had.
