https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11481021-beyond-lies-the-wub

PKD's first published story. Sooooo short, very funny. :) Me, personally, I'd have just talked with the poor alien and enjoyed his company, but you know how these idiot humans are. Always thinking with their stomachs. :)Good thing the revenge was totally apropos. :)Very fun. Classic PKD. :)
Thoroughly enjoyed this story.What would happen if your dinner could talk to you and asked you not to eat it?Philip K. Dick has the answer [=
What is a wub?A wub is like a big telepathic pig that is cultured and likes to discuss philosophy and myths.There is almost no way to review this brilliant, original 1952 publication from a very young PKD (24 years old) without spoiling, so I’ll just write that if you call yourself a science fiction fan you should invest the less than 15 minutes it will take to read.An upper level English course called Science Fiction literature should include a discussion of this excellent short work.
Hearing our silence,he would answer his own question,making us repeat after him,"WE ARE WORMS".
And after that every time he asked us 'what are you',we answered,"I AM A WORM".
So every time I hear of a worm or read of it,I am automatically led to think of myself.
A QUESTION TO THE NON-VEGETARIANS OUT THERE INCLUDING ME..If you were to meet your would-be food before it's killed,and if it were to talk to you of of your own thoughts and your philosophy and of the faults and fineries of humanity,would you still eat it.?
Thought-provoking,original,deeply moving.
This is a very funny and very short short story.A crew is travelling from Mars back to Earth and since they are starving, they contemplate killing and eating a pig-like creature one of the crew members purchased on Mars - the titular wub.This, however, is no ordinary creature as the captain soon find out in a very funny way. *lol*Can't put my finger on where I've heard the narrator before but he was VERY good in imitating the different accents of the crew members as well as giving the wub a voice of its own that was distinguishable.
Don’t Parley with Your Food!Appearing in “Planet Stories” in 1952, Beyond Lies the Wub, the first story by Dick that was published, could actually make you become a vegetarian.
All the wub asks him then is for him to look into its eyes while he is firing the mortal bullet … with surprising consequences.The story is not only food for thought, if you pardon the pun, but also grimly funny, for example in a passage like this:”French nodded.
‘I don’t want to see it.’‘Me, too,’ French [!!!] said.”This story actually got me thinking on why some people nowadays take photos of their food and post them.
Questions like these immediately lifted this story up for me to a much higher level than I previously assumed...The hero myth of Oedipus that the wub spoke about refers to the hero going out, individuating, collecting knowledge and then returning to his group.
(For more on this check out: The Hero With a Thousand Faces.) Hence at the end of this short story I would have liked the wub, whom I see as the hero on his mythical journey, to be able to return to his people with the knowledge he's learned.
Dick isn't the greatest of scribblers--characters move with thin or confounding motives at times, flat dialogue--but the situations are magnificent. A ship presumably filling its hold ark-like for a long trip picks up a wub, a filthy creature supposedly tasty but also telepathic and intelligent. From here, as they cynically say, the hilarity ensues. A quick punch in the ethical gut.
"Many men talk like philosophers and live like fools."PROs:* Original plot* Interesting ethical ideas brought up* Surprising twist at the endCONs:* Too short to really delve deeply into any ideas* Simplistic dialogueThis is one of Phillip K.
Dick's shortest short stories.
The plot is different from anything I've seen before and it has a good ending.
I think it has breached potential."But wouldn't it be more in accord with your principles of democracy if we all drew straws, or something along that line?
After all, democracy is to protect the minority from just such infringements."
Back on the farm we had hogs, dirty razor-back hogs. I can do it.ფრიად აღსაფრთოვანებელი მოთხრობაა.
Haha! Original, too.
According to John Stuart Mill: “When thus attacked, the Epicureans have always answered, that it is not they, but their accusers, who represent human nature in a degrading light; since the accusation supposes human beings to be capable of no pleasures except those of which swine are capable”This seems to be the case in the story, where Captain Franco is the true swine (all he can think of is eating the wub, he has no care for its intelligence and culture, and so lives like a fool), despite his human body.
This is a well written thought provoking short story which was also well narrated.A Wub which is pretty much a big telepathic pig that is cultured and likes to discuss philosophy and myths. has been captured, and the crew want to eat it, obviously the Wub disagrees with this and discusses with the captain alternative options.I found this short story rather thought provoking as it reflects human nature and how humans truly are really destructive creatures.This short story is free to listen too and download from Librivox.
As expected from a Philip K Dick book, that was trippy. Talky in the style of golden and silver age science fiction, but I have a fondness for the style as some of my first science fiction exposure was in that style. Not a bad plot, it's a quick read and available free from Project Gutenberg.
http://www.gutenberg.org/files/28554/...-- originally published in Planet Stories in July 1952.Short and.... Well. Things don't end well for the wub. But the taste, I understand, was excellent. ;-}
I wondered if there was something in this story that crossed the gravitational force and escaped me.
All I know is that here is a nice, short story about a wub (A rather stout, big pig-like being) that is picked up from Mars for an amount of 50 cents, fated to land on the tasty plates of the hungry space travelers.
Does he return back, like Odysseus?I am sure reading it will take less time than eating your Eggs and Bacon.
Dick's first published story, it already displays many of his characteristic themes like shifting identity and paranoia. First published in the fading pulp powerhouse Planet Stories in 1952, it's firmly within the confines of b-list pulp science fiction of the time, but there's already something interestingly disquieting about Dick's writing style. (I've bounced off the novels of his that I've looked at, and I may like that style better in smaller doses.)Read on Project Gutenberg.
A good story well worth listening to. The story is told in a narrative and conversational style. The narrator is well spoken, his voice is clear and easy to listen to. The recording good is clean with out any background noises. There plenty of volume. The editing is seamless.
A short audio adventure, "Beyond Lies the Wub," is an interesting Dick tale. Turetsky gives a good performance with distinct inflections of voice. Recommend it for fans of Dick exploring his short stories.
hehe, genijalna minijatura starog majstora.iznova pročitana kao rezultat nekih razgovora ovdje, a usput saznam kako je to i prva uopće objavljena Dickova priča.Prvi puta pročitano: Sirius 24 - ožujak 1978.
Humorous sci fi short story about a spaceship crew who buy a pig like creature intending to eat it on the voyage, only to find it talks and is very intelligent. What to do, especially as they are running out of food? Funny but also disturbing.
Another PKD short work. Interesting story with an interesting twist. The Wub is great! An excellent quick read.
PKD is once again good for a laugh. I really *do* need to get my hands on an omnibus edition, or a collected works volume. Toddling off to add it to my list...
I enjoyed this snappy story as it had amusing characters with an equally amusing twist at the end. Recommended for a casual reading session.
A parable of vegetarianism
An interesting short story that would make for a great episode of Amazing Stories or Twilight Zone.
Wow. Every single story in this book could be made into a contemporary movie. And it was written back in the 50s/60s. Absolute magic.
Delightful first published Philip K Dick science fiction short story with a surprise ending that possibly inspired Douglas Adams' galaxy cow that wants to be eaten.
This had all the ingredients of a good sci-fi story: short, asking a moral question and an unexpected ending. What if, an animal which is about to be slaughtered, had the ability to speak and also intelligent enough to conversant in history, art and philosophy. Would slaughtering of that animal still be justifiable? What an ending to the story!!!
