https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/615233.Clifford_s_Halloween
Clifford’s Halloween by Bridwell Norman Genre: Animated, Reading level: K-3 grade Format: good Comedy and humorClifford’s Halloween is a book about Emily Elizabeth and Clifford the big red dog. The book uses different holidays and illustrates how Clifford enjoys the holidays. Both Emily and Clifford enjoy Halloween and the book talks about the difficulty Emily has to decide what to dress Clifford as. Until finally Clifford decides he want to be a ghost and none of the children who went trick or
Clifford’s Halloween by Bridwell Norman Genre:	Animated, 		Reading level: K-3 grade	Format: good Comedy and humorClifford’s Halloween is a book about Emily Elizabeth and Clifford the big red dog.
The book uses different holidays and illustrates how Clifford enjoys the holidays.
Both Emily and Clifford enjoy Halloween and the book talks about the difficulty Emily has to decide what to dress Clifford as.
At the end of the book Emily and Clifford went trick or treating and are deciding what Clifford should be for the next Halloween.
I enjoyed reading this book because I also love Halloween especially when it comes to getting candy.
I remember this book...ghosts of Halloween past reminded me of what it was like getting ready to show off your costume to your friends.
I love this book! Such a cute story about trick or treating adventures. I recommend this book to all ages! Such a classic book.
I always dreamed of being able to buy a red dog that size and live the adventures I read in each and every book of the series.
Halloween is a holiday that sometimes younger children cannot handle because sometimes things get a little scary rather than fun.
However this book brings about the family fun often needed for this time of the year.
Clifford is having a halloween that many children can relate to and he brings fun to the whole night.
I also liked the colors on the pages, most of the time halloween is dark and scary but these colors bring happiness.
Clifford the Big Red Dog books were my favorite as a child.
With this series there are multiple books that can all be educational for children.
This series had great books that I could work in to my lesson plan for the day.
This book Clifford's Halloween is very cute and explains what Halloween is about.
This big red dog need a costume and cant figure out what he wants to be.
At the end of the book it end with the readers opinion.
Clifford asks the reader what he should be for the next Halloween.
This is a great book for children to read around the holidays!
This is another classic Clifford book that has such great illustrations that they help the text of the story tell the plot.
The illustrations can help students that may not understand all of the words, or are unsure of the meaning of some of the costumes.
You could do a picture walk with just the illustrations and the students would be able to write a great story off of them.
The students would have a blast writing descriptive writings about what costume they think would be best for Clifford.
Clifford's Halloween is a great addition to your Halloween bookshelf. Not a scary tale, one full of fun. If you would like to get your children in the mood for dressing up, this book is ideal. It is full of how much fun you can have on Halloween, especially if you have a Big Red Dog! Clifford's Halloween also discusses what Clifford does for all holidays but, Halloween is his and Emily Elizabeth's favorite!
Every Clifford book would be great to have in a young classroom, as each of them go through a great adventure with Emily Elizabeth and her giant dog Clifford. These books were always some of my favorites growing up and I would love to have many of them in my classroom.
This is a classic original Clifford storybook. He and Emily Elizabeth are discussing what they should be for Halloween this holiday. They reminisce about last Halloween and the fun they had.
We mostly looked at the illustrations and talked about the Indian interpretation, but the whole book is cute! Everyone loves Clifford.
1st Read: October 1, 1976 (**** Rating) Another childhood book that holds memories of a better time in the world.
My daughter loves Clifford books and enjoyed this one because of all the different costumes Clifford had.
This is a great book to read around the Halloween season. Young students love Halloween so much that this book would be very entertaining to them.
This is an excellent book to read within the season of fall or around the Holiday Halloween. This book is excellent for building language. Recommendation for pre k and kindergarten students.
Clifford is the dog of the house around here. There is no arguing that point. I love his "big turkey" he gets for Thanksgiving every year.
My favorite Clifford book as a kid, who wouldn't want a big red dog dressed as a ghost to tricker treat with you.
a classic book that I read as a kid and then got to read to my kids.Tough finding a Halloween costume for a dog the size of a school bus, but they do and Clifford then gets to go trick or treating.
he dresses up as a ghost
This book shows Clifford on several holidays and encourage your readers to think of a good costume ideas.
Clifford's Halloween, a discussion on the monopolistic and entrenched holiday ecosystem that enforces social conditioning and code, leaves an impression of guilt that wrenches even the animals that take witness to the annual moral decimation.
Clifford, who wishes only to serve his lord and master Emily Elizabeth, reluctantly also becomes subservient to the establishment rulers of the holiday holocaust.
This isn't to say that Clifford has changed his moral residing.
Clifford is not precisely moved by the same strings that move Emily, and he ultimately holds a responsibility to both.
Self-Selected Early Reading book: Clifford’s Halloween, By: Norman Bridwell  I love Clifford books, I enjoyed watching the shows and the books are just as good.
They are similar to the shows, especially when Emily introduces herself and Clifford, I said it just like the shows.
Clifford’s Halloween is a book that looks like the pictures are drawn out, witch I feel is cool and it goes with the book.
Clifford’s Halloween is a pre-k book, the vocabulary is broad and easy to understand.
It is a fun book to read to children and I enjoyed reading about other holidays.
A very sweet Halloween story, featuring Clifford, the big Red Dog!Thoughts of my own fond memories of Clifford, kept intertwining with my reading of the story, to the girls!We all thought Clifford would be such a great dog to have!The girls would like me to find as many Clifford books as I can; I told them there is a great place called the library to do just that!(We have only been there about fifty times so far this year!) LOL
Now THIS is a blast from the past! I remember loving this book when I was a kid. So an extra star for pure nostalgia!That said, the book has aged remarkably well. The costume ideas for Clifford are still pretty fun, and I actually kind of like that there's no real resolution (though a thought bubble from the dog himself would have been fun).
My three-year-old saw this book on the back cover of another Clifford book and HAD to have it . . . so we got it (from the library), even though it's almost Christmas. He adores the idea of Clifford dressed up as a ghost. I liked how the beginning goes over all the different holidays: very educational for little ones!
The Clifford series has long been a favorite of mine. I've always loved dogs, and the big red one has always made me laugh and feel sentimental. In his Halloween themed book, he arrives dressed as a big ghost. Oh, Clifford! Fun book for the holiday!
This book is super cute for children who understand the traditions and holidays. This is a book that can be used for seasonal as well as daily. Every one knows the famous big read dog, so adding him to a holiday or even bring children attention and awareness that it is celebrated globally.
This was a very cute book. I have always been a fan of Clifford the Big Red Dog! I was excited when my son grabbed this from the library shelf. He loved the craziness of such a large dog! And I loved seeing the joy it brought to him as he read it over and over for the next few weeks! :)
Copyright 1966 - has Clifford been around THAT long? My copy is from 1986. Scholastic. This was a favorite from my oldest to youngest kids. Clifford the big red dog tries to decide what he wants to be for Halloween. He & Emily Elizabeth reminisce about the last Halloween. My kids loved it!
Fun Halloween story for the students that celebrate!
I've loved Clifford books for years. In this installment, Clifford is a ghost for Halloween.
