https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/629.Zen_and_the_Art_of_Motorcycle_Maintenance
We should be thanking him!And this is just an aside, but part of me always wonders if there is something wrong with me, or if I’m an elitist or delusional because I’ve never read a “life-changing” book.
I read as a kind of re-affirmation of what I think I already know, somewhere deep down.
Well done!” But never have I put down a book and thought, “Before I read this, I was wandering around on this thing we call Earth with the wrong ideas about life/people/religion/mechanical engineering, but now I have been enlightened.
If you think I’m just like Pirsig, you would want to heed my advice about this book and avoid it, wouldn’t you?
I feel like Robert M. Pirsig has wronged me personally.
Certainly when I was reading this book and sort of enjoying it (2 stars-worth), I was also thinking I am just too old to be reading this sort of cod-philosophy, too old and not stoned enough.
Either way, I didn't really enjoy it and it only gets two stars because the writing was ok, the book wasn't arduous to read, some parts of it were interesting and enjoyable.I wasn't that keen on the author's exploration of his mental breakdown either.
There are three threads weaving through this book (none of which, as is pointed out, has much to do with either eastern philosophy or with motorcycle maintenance.)The first is a straightforward narration by a man riding across the country with his young son and two friends (a married couple).
Through the narrator's dialogue with himself, Pirsig puts forward his ludicrous "philosophy of quality," which essentially holds that "quality," whatever that might be, is somehow the fundamental reality of the universe.
After years of people saying, "Oh, you're a philosophy major?
I don't know much about Zen Buddhism, so I can't speak for how Pirsig treated that aspect, but the rundowns on philosophy made me anxious in the way that "Philosophy for Dummies" makes me anxious: you have to assume that the author's interpretation is one that is valid.
And sometimes there was enough value judgment language that it felt like the text was "conveniently" interpreting the philosopher at hand, as opposed to fairly.It's a good book, and I recommend it, but I also recommend reading more about the philosophies Pirsig touches on, eg Kant, Hume, Aristotle, Socrates, Plato, etc.
Plato's Phaedrus said, "And what is written well and what is written badly...need we ask Lysias or any other poet or orator who ever wrote or will write either a political or other work, in meter or out of meter, poet or prose writer, to teach us this?"Modern Phaedrus said, “And what is good, Phaedrus, And what is not good— Need we ask anyone to tell us these things?” I keep re-reading passages from Zen and the Art and Tao of Pooh and Siddhartha and try to make sense in the context of everyday life (which is where I firmly believe any philosophical questions need to be answered - If it is not applicable in your kitchen, it is not real philosophy) and quite strangely the answers seem to come from tying in the learning from these metaphysical and spiritual works with a book like The Story of Stuff - neither a great book nor a literary achievement or a leap in thinking - but it helped me understand the real meaning of the word 'materialism' when I read it in parallel with these other books.
I must start by saying that this is one of my favorite books ever. Although it is deep and complicated and takes a lot of focus to read, I feel that there are a lot of great messages here in the author’s search for Quality. This was my second time reading this book, and I liked it more this time. Interlaced with stories from an across-the-west motorcycle trip with his son and some friends, Pirsig tells the story of his past in an almost former life before being admitted to a mental institution a
As a result we’re getting more and more people in irrational areas of thought – occultism, mysticism, drug changes and the like – because they feel the inadequacy of classical reason to handle what they know are real experiences.”“The trouble is that essays always have to sound like God talking for eternity, and that isn’t the way it ever is.
It’s never been anything else, ever, but you can’t get that across in an essay.”“The allegory of a physical mountain for the spiritual one that stands between each soul and its goal is an easy and natural one to make.
Pirsig, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: "I can see by my watch, without taking my hand from the left grip of the cycle, that it is eight-thirty in the morning."I have read Zen probably four or five times.
The clinical precision of the author is apparent in all the detail here ("left grip", "eight-thirty").
The fact that he looks without taking his hand of the grip, gives us a very cinematic presentation of this otherwise banal scene.
OK, maybe I'm being a little too harsh.
I actually enjoyed the idea of the cross-country motorcycle ride, the details about motorcycle mechanics, and especially the portrayal of the narrator's relationship with his son.
The son was the best part of the whole book.
Unfortunately, there wasn't much space for sonny, because dad was too busy advertising the author's brilliant philisophical insights.
Even more unfortunately, the insights weren't brilliant, and consumed hundreds of tedious pages.
I can't believe I made it through 380 pages of this.
After undergoing electro-convulsive therapy 28 times, Pirsig, in this book, gives his formerly insane self a doppelgänger-like alter-ego, Phaedrus, and bravely tries to piece together that formerly insane self’s thought in order to learn from it.
The haymaker Phaedrus delivers to the glass jaw of the Great Books curriculum at the University of Chicago is enormous fun to read about.
Pirsig claims that everything not on the metaphorical train of Quality is by definition insanity.
The thing I find most excellent in this book is that it points out the step where the mystery comes in, i.e. coming up with new hypotheses, the long sought "aha" that comes when you're working on a hard problem.
That's why I love applied science and engineering.) The other great idea that I use all the time from this book is that the very cutting edge, the place where the tire tread hits the pavement, is always messy and confusing and just a place of floundering around in uncertainty.
Classically—familiarizing yourself with the working parts of the machine, developing a feel for how tight to secure the bolts.Romantic experience is “in the moment.” Classical experience connects the past to the future, allowing us to build on previous knowledge:1.
To care about something will increase its quality.Pirsig creates an analogy comparing knowledge to a railroad train that is always going somewhere:•	Classic Knowledge is the engine and the cars.•	Romantic reality adds the dimension of time—it is the cutting edge of the experience, the moment in time.
The last page I actually read was 217, so I didn't officially "finish" this book, but it will go into my finished pile.
The book is a great example of the archethypical "journey story" that turns sucky.
Early in the book he describes how he got electro fucking shock therapy for this.
Fucking feed that kid, and dont make him climb a stupid mountain because of your own ridiculous ambition.
Maybe this book does a 180 degree turn in the final half and becomes really evocative AND entertaining, but I just dont care anymore.
There are too many awesome books out there I should spend my finite time on.
I learned from this book that you can sell a billion copies of a book that no one should ever waste three minutes reading.
This is just another neo-philosophy book disguised as a novel.
I'm almost convinced that the only reason people buy this book is so that their pseudo-intellectual (read: pompous scumbag) friends will accept them into the hippie circle.
Although I know about twenty people who claim to have read this book, I have yet to meet a single person who actually knows what it's about.
This book is a bigger hoax than the bible.
Here's what I wrote on my bookmark 50 pages in:"the author's logic is self-contained, entirely self-referential and so his argument is self-sustaining!
The kind of guy who never made it all the way back from 'Nam."So that was 100 pages ago and I've had to change my evaluation a little.
He wasn't kicked out of school for "laziness and immaturity" as the official reason went-- it was because his ideas were so RADICAL the whole university system would have come toppling down!The only expert he cites is Phaedrus....who turns out to be himself!
He talks about discovering the beautiful power of Phaedrus' logic and writing.
After years of putting this one off, I finally recently read it and was floored by how it was almost nothing like what I expected: motorcycle talk and philosophy.
I did not expect the contemplations of a depressing, crazy person.
But that's no reason to hate on a book, and I don't hate Zen..., I'm just not in love with it.
The author's son's whiney desperation irritated, but for the right reasons, because it felt so real.
My recommendation is to read this if you like philosophical contemplations, but don't read it if you're only interested in the motorcycle aspect.
I, for one, don't wish to be that person.What you should expect instead are prolonged servings of motorcycle-speak and mechanic lingo and quasi-intellectual discussion of the term 'Quality'—what it is, what it isn't, what it means, how it works, why it matters.
A person whose life is in disarray and looking for order may be put off by the scattered thoughts expressed here, while a different person may have the opposite experience and find Pirsig’s chaotic effusions cathartic.I’m aware that many consider ZAMM an insightful novel and even profound intellectual entertainment.
I started reading this book because i'd heard from a number of people, including comedian Tim Allen, that it was good.
In fact i read an entire Tim Allen book ("I'm Not Really Here") which was kind of about his experience reading Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintainence.
Tim Allen, although not exactly a respectable philosopher (maybe not even just respectable), had some of Robert Pirsig's philosophy without all his inane bullshit.
It's a story about the narrator (Pirsig himself) and his son, Chris, on a motorcycle journey across the country with some friends.
I wonder what Chris thought when he read this book.
This is not a constructive discussion about ideas, this is a presentation of why Pirsig is right, which, because this is a discussion on philosophy, is debatable.
(Except, as far as Pirsig is concerned, it isn't.) I actually kind of enjoyed the story about the main character's family, especially his son Chris.
The problem is that the story is interrupted by many, many pages of what I only can describe as pretentious psychobabble.
I can see how this book would be an enjoyable, ego-inflating journey for someone with the exact same views as Pirsig.
I think if you go into this 400 page novel with the expectation that it will be a light read about a motorcycle trip out West with a couple philosophical insights, you'll probably end up with a similar negative review.
However, if you go into this book with an open mind, and are willing to look at the world through the eyes of a man deeply entrenched in philosophical meanderings to the point of insanity then you will be rewarded with a new way to look at things.Pirsig takes an 18-day motorcycle journey that he made with his son in 1968 and turns it into an autobiographical journey not only about this trip, but into his mind.
Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, Robert M. Pirsig تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سوم ماه نوامبر سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: ذن و فن نگاهداشت موتورسیکلت؛ عنوان روی جلد: ذن و فن نگاهداشت موتوسیکلت؛ نویسنده: رابرت پیرسیک؛ مترجم: اسدالله طاهری؛ تهران، شباویز، 1366؛ در 530 ص؛ شابک: 9645511542؛ موضوع: ذن - قرن 20 مخاطرات سفر هفده روزه ی نویسنده از مینه سوتا به کالیفرنیا با موتورسیکلت است؛ پیرسیگ در خلال سفرنامه، دیدگاه های فلسفی خویش را شرح میدهد و به توضیح بُعد «کیفیت» میپردازد. عنوان کتاب نوعی بازی با عنوا
Pirsig تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سوم ماه نوامبر سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: ذن و فن نگاهداشت موتورسیکلت؛ عنوان روی جلد: ذن و فن نگاهداشت موتوسیکلت؛ نویسنده: رابرت پیرسیک؛ مترجم: اسدالله طاهری؛ تهران، شباویز، 1366؛ در 530 ص؛ شابک: 9645511542؛ موضوع: ذن - قرن 20 مخاطرات سفر هفده روزه ی نویسنده از مینه سوتا به کالیفرنیا با موتورسیکلت است؛ پیرسیگ در خلال سفرنامه، دیدگاه های فلسفی خویش را شرح می‌دهد و به توضیح بُعد «کیفیت» می‌پردازد.
عنوان کتاب نوعی بازی با عنوان مقاله ای ست با عنوان « ذن و فن کمانگیری » که نویسنده‌ ای آلمانی به نام «اویگن هریگن» پس از مطالعه ی فلسفه و فرهنگ بودائی ژاپنی، در سال1936 میلادی چاپ کرده بود.
پیرسیگ در ابتدای کتاب خویش اظهار می‌دارد که: کتابش برخلاف عنوانش، حاوی اطلاعات دقیقی در مورد فرهنگ ذن بودایی یا موتورسیلکت ها نیست.
This is fine because it is not meant to be a primer on classical or any other kind of philosophy; I don't really have an extensive philosophy background but the little I did know helped I think.Not that they have anything to do with the book, but I have a couple of stories about it.
Well, things got kind of awkward at this point, and while trying to avoid eye contact with her, I saw a copy of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance in a stack of books waiting to be shelved, and tried to help myself.
But at the exact same time, this whole genre of book (see: Ken Wilber and his oeuvre, especially A Brief History of Everything) really grinds and irritates.* Don't get me wrong, I love Greek philosophy and Zen Buddhism as much as the next guy (or gal) on Goodreads.
I just feel like I've been given a light mental laxitive.
I just don't really want to double down and read Lila.
I want a different sort of quality I guess.* given that statement, I'm not sure why I'm not as critical of Matthiessen's The Snow Leopard.
According to family lore, my brother gave this book to my father when he - my brother - was in college.
When my father read it, it apparently made a very deep impression on him, 'cuz he turned around and bought 4 copies and gave one to each of his children.
I refused to read it for years because...well...because my father gave it to me.
Clearly, it made a very deep impression on me, too.
Come to think of it, I should probably read it again this year...I love the narrative of the father/son motorcycle trip across the plains.
In the early phases, I thought that perhaps I was responding negatively to the philosophy meditations because the book was a bit behind in the times (over 40 years old now).
But then, as I went deeper into the author's Chautauquas, I understood the philosophy as part and parcel of a narrative that is not quite a narrative -- artifacts from a devastated psyche and the routine of a dad who is worried about his son.
More than philosophy, more than travel narrative -- it might be a new kind of practical reflective writing.
At times, I wondered why the author didn't write more about his son.
I get that some people are put on a path for different reasons, and I'm very happy for all of the people who have found enlightenment or comfort with this book or any other. I mean that from the bottom of my heart.And that's the only reason I'm giving this 2 stars; it's strictly for all the good it has done for so many people.I tried, ok? But I just can't with this hullabaloo about how gravity doesn't exist. Don't feed me garbage and tell me it's steak. I simply cannot suspend logic to buy into that idea.
Sometimes it seems as though a book finds you.
And, sometimes you ignore that book and then it finds you again ...
and, eventually, you give in.
I feel as though this book found me dozens of times, and I regret that I finally gave in.
It may not have had all the answers in the universe and I didn’t expect it to.
I did enjoy the ride (their actual trip enough was enjoyable and wasn't described enough) and even fell for some of the far-out explanations, but not enough of them.
I wish I could say I understood the hype of this book; I don’t.
Reading is much like astrology I feel with some books.
It seemed like, possibly multiple times in a single page, I'd double check how many pages I had left until I finished it...
or how many pages left until the next act.Pirsig said:To the untrained eye ego-climbing and selfless climbing may appear identical.
The ego-climber is like an instrument that's out of adjustment.
He goes on when the sloppiness of his step shows he's tired.
He rests at odd times.
Readers of the book will know what "pro" is and why, my attempts at being both "pro" and having substance are completely at odds.
Dosta mazohizma za ovu godinu. Mislim, čitala sam i ranije knjige koje mi se ne dopadaju, ali ovo je prva koju sam bacila u smeće.I ne sablažnjavajte mi se, naći će je neko u kontejneru sutra ujutro. Nadam se da će je odneti na reciklažu. Biće od koristi.
