https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286453.In_My_Father_s_House
This little book is a touching and inspiring prequel to The Hiding Place, it show how the ten Boom family were all raised in the love of God and also love for all their fellow men.The house in which Corrie ten Boom was raised was bursting at the seams with family, mother, father, children and aunts.
Everyone was welcomed in with such love and kindness.The ten Boom family were members of the Dutch Reformed Church but most importantly they were true children of God. Every decision, large and small was made by the family after asking God to guide them.
An autobiography of a truly amazing person!
I read this in preparation for rereading The Hiding Place for book club this month.
I found it encouraging and uplifting to see how God prepared the ten Boom family to help Jews during the Nazi occupation of Holland.
One of the most amazing things was that 100 years earlier, ten Boom's grandfather was asked by his pastor to pray for the blessing of the Jews.
Prayer meetings were held in their home decades before their home became a hiding place.
The way the family members lived out their faith was inspiring--they used their gifts and were open to God's leading in their lives.
I just finished this book. I can't seem to get enough of this author. I love reading her stories. I love how she lived her life. She was so in tune to the Spirit of the Lord. I would love to have met her in person.
I LOVED this book! Corrie ten Boom is so inspirational. I especially loved chapter 14, Even the Least of Them..., and also the last chapter. She encouraged so many people to trust in Jesus for salvation, and strengthened those who were saved but maybe timid in their faith. And she continues to do that through her books.
A lovely book with much encouragement for witnessing, using time in prayer and wisdom, and God's love and grace being shown through blundering people.
Even though I wouldn't quite go so far as the ten Boom family in how the women taught, I was still blessed by this book and the stories told.A couple quotes:"Children need the wisdom of their elders; the aging need the encouragement of a child's exuberance.""How grateful I am to have lived in my Father's house!
Yes, Lord, I thank You for this family.
I learned to listen to the Holy Spirit when I prepared for the lessons, and when I talked with the children and young people, my "lessons" were more of a conversation with them than telling what I knew".
PG 164"There was a lot of talk about "character building," until finally I asked, "Don't you think that we miss the purpose, when we tell the girls to be good citizens, but fail to bring them to Jesus Christ?" Pg 171"The triangle represented the three stages of development: social, intellectual, and physical; the circle meant the spiritual development.
We emphasized that when the triangle was within the circle, we were in the proper position in our lives as children of God".
AMAZING!
You really can't go wrong by reading something from Corrie Ten Boom. For real. I was glad to learn more about her life before "The Hiding Place." It was amazing to see how much God used her before the war, despite her being so well known for God's work during and after the war. She clearly wasn't always perfect but her life and dedication to God is so inspiring. . .
In this book, Corrie shares memories of her growing up years which were clearly full of spiritual growth, faith building and early work for the Lord that prepared her for her later years and all that she achieved.
This book is another testament of Corrie's faith and taught so much and gave me so much to ponder.
I shall revisit this book time and again just as I shall revisit "The Hiding Place" and "Tramp for the Lord."Special note: Corrie's father was amazing-- if only all children could be blessed with such a father.
This book details the growing up and young adult years of Corrie Ten Boom, the years before the events of The Hiding Place occurred.
The reader learns a great deal about how growing up "in her father's house" prepared Corrie for the events that none of them knew were coming.
And they had an interest in reaching out to others, especially young people, and teaching them to follow God and develop good character.
Along the way there are gems of insights and quotations from Corrie or her father that readers will want to pause and reflect on.
A home soaked in love and faith can produce extraordinary individuals. To understand the full impact of the ten Boom home upon those who lived therein, you must read The Hiding Place by Corrie ten Boom. It will buoy your faith that God indeed cares for those He has created and moves miraculously in the face of human suffering and tragedy.
What an inspiring book! I haven't read "The Hiding Place" since I was younger, but I wanted to read this book before reading it again. I am so glad I did. This novel is great at showing what life was like for the ten Booms before the war and how God prepared them for what they would later have to go through.
It was interesting to read about CtB's life before The Hiding Place.
Nice light book of anecdotes from Corrie ten Boom's early life. At first it felt a little too light for me, but I settled in and enjoyed the verbal salad of stories, sayings, and inspiration.
This was a great book. It was like reading journal entries.
While theologically orthodox, they welcomed those of different beliefs into their homes, whether Jewish, liberal or atheist.
While they led their family in regular prayer and Bible study, they didn't spank or try to control their children's interests.
Though they practiced a social gospel better than any liberal church, they taught the Bible centered around Christ, salvation and atonement, with a view on eternity rather than temporal moralism and self improvement.
They also loved the rejected - the homeless, the mentally disabled (often abandoned by their families), orphans (taking in foster children) and immersed their daily lives in Scriptures, prayer and love towards everyone.
I've read quite a few accounts of Corrie's life including The Hiding Place.
I borrowed another book at the same time called Corrie Ten Boom: Her Life, Her Faith, which I can hardly wait to read!In My Father's House is a wonderful account of the years of the Ten Boom family prior to the events in The Hiding Place.
Some books intersect your life at just the right time, this was one of those!
Tramp For the Lord was an account of her later years.
I was delighted to see what a rich and fruitful life her father lived.
Martha, Central patron, July 2018, 5 stars:Corrie ten Boom's reflections about her life before events in The Hiding Place: The Triumphant True Story of Corrie Ten Boom is beautifully good-humored and inspiring. Reading it makes one think about the small everyday choices we make that shape our characters and equip us (or not) to behave humanely in times of crisis.
It is no wonder the family did what they did to save the persecuted Jews. They already were helping missionary kids, youth, the disabled, German children in post-WW1 Germany. Growing up in the ten Boom home meant scripture was the cornerstone of their daily existence. Christ was at the centre. How could they live otherwise? What a challenge to me.
Inspirational. Oh, to have grown up how, and when, Corrie ten Boom did. She brings it alive in plain and simple language. I have not had her luck in bringing people to Christian faith by simply saying, “Jesus died for your sins!”, but times are quite different now. Still, she is a model for embedding faith, prayer and obedience into one’s life to draw closer to God. Recommended.
This book sets a good foundation by showing and informing the reader about the main character, Corrie, and her family. By reading this first, connections will be made as you read The Hiding Place. Corrie Ten Boom was an amazing woman and from an early age she start s impacting those around her to fall in love with God and how to spread His love to others.
Corrie ten Boom is the greatest. She's top on my list of people to meet in heaven. This is a prequel of sorts to The Hiding Place and it tells about Corrie's life growing up in the Beje (her family's home). Read The Hiding Place first though if you haven't read it (and if you haven't you should correct that immediately).
A beautiful book written by a beautiful soul. It lays out what happened in the years prior to Corrie’s imprisonment in a Nazi concentration camp. She had an amazing family, and a great God who prepared her for hard times ahead. She never mentions God’s sovereignty, but it is deeply woven throughout the book. A great read, and a book everyone should keep on their shelf (if you ask me).
A joy to readHeroes come from ordinary places, but with the right mix of character and circumstances they emerge and change their world. Corrie’s father was the true hero and Corrie learned from him.
Great!If you liked The Hiding Place you should read this. It helps you to see how Corrie grew up to be the woman of God she became.
God sure prepared Corrie ten Boom for the really hard time she went through during World War II. This book covers her growing up "In My Father's House."
Amazing. Highly recommend!
Great, having watched The Hiding Place it was interesting to hear about her growing up and the influence of her father.
I loved reading the stories of Corrie's early years ~ her childhood, her growing up in faith, her ministry with youth in their community before the war.
It is amazing how the early foundations and grounding in the Word of God and His promises gave her the help she and Betsie needed during their time in the concentration camp.
These remembrances gave a fullness to her story and the work of God in and through her simple life, even during the times when she was filled with fear and faced her own personal weaknesses and limitations.
So glad that someone encouraged Corrie to tell about her growing up years in her father's house.
