https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38185340-guard-of-honor
I believe that I first learned about this novel from reading Noel Perrin the Dartmouth professor and book reviewer who praised the author and this novel in particular as deserving more popular notice as worthy to stand beside Melville's novels in the American canon.Cozzens' achievement in creating this war novel is evidenced by the setting, a Florida Air Base, but more importantly in doing this he has brought into sharp relief against the background of boredom and frustration and disappointment which most of the officers assigned there felt, the minor dramas of human lives, loves, hates, jealousies; the competitive spirit leveled at minor goals; and the interrelation of men, whose ranks are more or less the accident of the chance of war.
I suppose this is all well and good if you can identify with the nuanced dilemmas of such a disenfranchised segment of the American populace.In the interest of full disclosure I am a professional, white, male, veteran of the United States Army, and if anyone could identify with the litany of characters Cozzens presents in Guard of Honor, he should be, resoundingly, me.
Indeed, if there is an explanation for Guard of Honor winning the Pulitzer, it might be due to its use of civil rights as a medium for exploring the relative rank, talent, morality, and intelligence of professional white males.There are three main events that happen in 600-plus pages of narrative.
What an amazing author and what a fascinating story.
631 pages describe the events of some 20+ characters over a period of three days at an Army Air Force base called Ocanara, in Florida, USA during September 1943.
All of the characters are linked through the base and the detailed prose is just so satisfying to read as the story moves from one person to another, to their backgrounds, their families, their current problems, their interactions, their weaknesses and strengths, and so many events occur in just those three days.
A totally plausible and wonderful book which I would have been very happy to have had 1000 pages to read.
There were about 10 pages in this 600+ book that I didn't hate.
There were four main events, one dealing with race relations and another involved the death of 7 people, but the total pages used to actually tell those stories was less than 10% of the book.
It was just mindless description after mindless dialogue, with characters you couldn't keep straight, let alone give two shits about.I spent most of this book thinking to myself, "Wait, who was that guy who committed suicide?", which was an event that took place in the first 40 page.
I don't know how much I have to say about this book. I liked it, it was a little bit dated, the ending was a little bit disappointing. I'm not sure the day is coming when it will be recognized as better than any of the WWII books, as asserted on the back cover. I liked this angle of looking at the war, and not a bad book, but not spectacular.
What is there to write to write about a 800 page book written over 3 days based at a WWII Stateside Air force Base?
First off, the detail in this book is incredible as you'd expect it to be (see above sentence).
I really didn't get into the book for the first 500 pages, but looking back see why there's so much detail.
The meat of the book is several situations that arise at the Air Force Base and who the main character, a young general, handles those situations.
Every page fairly glides by like a wave.
Hilarious moments in every chapter and that formidable attention to human detail that marks the experienced, professional, mid-Twentieth-Century author.
It's everything a novel should be in that the focus is on human behavior, customs, habits, morals.
You hate to have to stop turning pages--and when you return to the covers after a break, it is with anticipation.
Cracking good novel in a league with anything by James Jones.No terse or laconic Hemingway style writing here.
500 pages still to go!
The writing was decent, but there really wasn’t much in the way of transformative moments or events.
You are always expecting some watershed moment or some defining event that just never really materializes.
Instead you just get little bits of stuff that add up to the usual problems and mistakes and interactions of a weekend on a military training base.
But you get nothing in terms of what you want and expect.
And all you are left with is a bunch of nice words on a page and much more knowledge about the technical details of military rank, base life, and aircraft design.Pulitzer worthy?
Author introduces the reader to a huge variety of the characters, some major and some minor, though all sympathetic in their own way.
The action occurs on or near the Ocanara Army Air Base during WWII, where many of the men and women are not the military professionals, they are separated from their homes, their families and their ordinary business, in fact they have joined the Army because they were not able to get any good job or to hold it for a long time, they live, eat, have drinks in local bar and sometimes sleep together.
Very nice read indeed!
Pulitzer Price Winner read as part of my law school “Law and Literature” class highlighting the period of World War II.
Very adult and very dense with more character development than plot.Set at a Florida air base in the later stages of World War II, a group of black pilots arrives to be trained as part of an experiment in integration.
The novel really isn’t about World War II, nor is it about corruption in a birthday party, nor is it about race relations.
Not as memorable as others in the World War II genre, and certainly not for everyone, but all in all I found it to be enjoyable.
I tried, I really tried to like this book, and there were several moments where I really did enjoy myself, and then I would find that my mind was drifting away for the umpteenth time as a litany of characters I really should have had a mental picture of by page 300 droned endlessly about technical army information a civilian would never really be interested in.
Honestly, I barely had any idea who anyone was, which made me singularly unable to care about any of them.
Man, I struggled to get through this book. It's hard to say exactly why- plenty was happening. The story and themes were poignant. The setting was unique and even nostalgic for me (Gulf Coast). But the prose was so dense. The author seemed to think every minute detail of scene, inner thoughts and pithy commentary were necessary. Metaphor after metaphor and philosophical ponderings piled on top of sage pearls. Exhausting.The central focus of racial and gender integration in the Air Force in WWII gets buried in the deluge of constant observation. Great topic, tough read.
A much ignored, and I think unjustly so, book. One reason for the lack of recognition is its conservatism. I think it the best of WW II fiction. It is pragmatic, but honest, and just plain good reading.
Cox could be clunky, Coz could be peevish, Coz could be racist, but he writes well about ambition and organizations.
Guard of Honor, a 1949 Pulitzer Prize winner by James Gould Cozzens is a wonderful, leisurely read! It is social commentary set on an Air Force base in World War II. With subtly and nuanced observations, it looks at racism, gender roles, and personality differences. I reflected on the challenge and resulting absurdities of trying to bring so many civilians into military organization to fight a war. The novel's detail about everything military from policies to airplanes provide the reader with an experience paralleling a civilian's on joining the military. This is an overlooked gem.
Finally! After over 2 months.. I thought I would never be done with this book. I don't know what was wrong with it. The characters were colorful, the issues raised - important and I even enjoyed the technical jargon! And yet.. I never felt compelled to open it again after I had closed it and putting it down was always easy. I guess it's just not my book
If you’re going to read this, do it quickly. With so many characters and tiny details in this 631 page book, you will get lost and the story will drag tremendously. However reading it quick means you get to enjoy a well thought out and interesting take on the military during WWII. Obviously, I enjoyed the book but I do think Cozzens was a bit wordy when he didn’t need to be.
I had high hopes for this one for 3 reasons. One, I'd heard that Cozzens had some similarities to Mr. R. Lockridge. Two, it is set on an Air Force base during WWII (could it be another "From Here to Eternity?). Finally, it was a nice, long read (600+ pages). Despite some outstanding sections, it fell short for me due to having too many characters spread too thinly. In addition a number of the reflective passages, though thoughtful, came across kind of dull.
Sorry. I couldn't finish it. But WOW
It's the story of an Army base in Florida over those three days during WWII and the interactions of the characters.
Cozzens is apparently thorough and accurate in his depiction of a base at the time and the characters in it.
However I had a really hard time with this book.
Other than the depiction of the base I found no real plot in this - I wasn't turning the page to see what happens - and found my mind wandering while I was in the midst of reading it.
"There are good things and there are bad things.
The good is that Cozzens regularly has the moments of profound insight into humanity.
The ending is also suitably open, which I really like.
In this case, Ross is way to alert to everything.
It's so unbelievable (fortunately Hicks isn't as bad).
Worse, nobody talks like this!
In this case, it's forgivable but in the other book I'm reading, it's disastrous.
Something about this book, whether it is ridiculously short time-frame, the insights, the ending, or something else, makes me want to forgive Ross and the bad dialogue.


Wow, this was a tough one to get through.
Not that it was bad, but it was so detailed.
It took me a long time to finish, but it was worth the effort.
The story takes place over three days during World War II on a Florida military base.
I couldn't help comparing this to Naked and the Dead.
Guard of Honor takes place stateside and shows the tediousness in the preparation for war (paperwork, bureaucracy, stupidity).
Naked and the Dead takes place in the Pacific during a battle and demonstrates how decisions are really made in a life and death situation.
Bye Bye bureaucracy!
Another forgotten mid-century American classic. Cozzens won the Pulitzer Price in 1949 for this novel set on a Florida Army airbase in 1943, centered on the various minor dramas surrounding the integration of black pilots into the armed services — which I know makes the book sound especially boring. It's not – the writing is straightforward, unsentimental and avoids the usual treacly clichés. Solid & satisfying and virtually out-of-print.(If you can find it, I recommend the Modern Library edition.)
The first time I read Guard of Honor, I thought it was a good story, if a bit lead-footed. My second sitting has not gone much better. It is a long book - not always easy reading- with many subplots and minor incident piled on minor incident. Though it is claimed to be one of the most accurate portrayals of WWII I just couldn't be drawn by it - a luxury perhaps allowed to generations beyond the Vietnam War.
How do individuals maintain their identities when suddently transplanted from civilian careers/lives to military ones?This is not a war book. It is about military culture, and about those who find themselves immersed in it during wartime. About that reflex that causes the strong to protect the vulnerable.
Interesting human study, very descriptive writing, issues not so different from today's, a study of military old boys network and bureaucracy. Every conflict was mundane and resolved quietly. Probably much like the real military. I think the intended issue was racism, but the real issue was the role, rights and oppression of women. Not sure if the author meant that or if it was just the times.
Finished today. Took a long time due to play practice and a book that was very wordy. There were three plots involved but there was more long winded parts where people were thinking about or describing things they were considering about people and events that were going on in the book. I may wait a while before reading another Pulitzer prize winning book if this is how they are.
If you're going to write a book about war then shouldn't there be some action? Or if you're going to build a long book on straight dialogue then shouldn't the dialogue be witty or interesting? How about if you're going to include this many characters that they be the least bit engaging? But no.
