https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67482.The_Third_Wave
Toffler's book describes the transition in developed countries from Industrial Age society, which he calls the "Second Wave", to Information Age "Third Wave" society.
The Second Wave is Industrial Age society.
The Second Wave began in Western Europe with the Industrial Revolution, and subsequently spread across the world.
The Third Wave is the post-industrial society.
Toffler says that since the late 1950s most countries have been transitioning from a Second Wave society into a Third Wave society.
ایشان در کتابهایش از: انقلاب صنعتی، به عنوان: موج دوم، و از عصر اطلاعات، به عنوان: موج سوم، یاد کرده است.

موج سوم نوشته الوين تافلر هميشه داراي بالاترين چاپ بوده استبين كتابهاي مديريت صنعتي بهترين رتبه كتاب
Although it was published in 1980 before home computers, e-mail, and the internet, Mr. Toffler helps make sense of the transitions we faced moving from the First Wave (Agricultural Age) to the Second Wave (Industrial Age) and now as we move into the Third Wave (Information Age).
He covers topics as broad as technology, politics and gender roles and how each of these is impacted by the Third Wave.
There are entire chapters that I disagree with, such as reasons given for the disintegration of the nuclear family, but it is otherwise interesting and insightful, for a book written almost 30 years ago.
برخی افراد به قانون اساسی با احترامی تقدس آمیز نگاه می کنند و آن را حاوی ده فرمان می پندارند که آنقدر مقدس است که نباید بدان دست زد.
آنان به  مردان اعصار گذشته عقلی بالاتر از عقل بشری نسبت می دهند و تصور می کنند که آنچه آنان انجام داده اند احتیاج به هیچگونه تغییر یا اصلاحی ندارد...
اما می دانم که قوانین و نهادها باید دست در دست یکدیگر با پیشرفت ذهن بشری همگام شوند...
همانطور که اکتشافات جدید انجام می شود و حقایق تازه آشکار می گردد و حالات و افکار و عقاید نیز همگام با شرایط تغییر می یابند، نهادها نیز باید پیشرفت کنند
Несмотря на то что книга довольно старая (первое издание 1981 г.), тем не менее в ней автором замечены множество тенденций и признаков эволюционных изменений человечества.Да, многие моменты, замеченные автором сейчас не совсем корректны, некоторые не оправдали себя в предсказаниях Тоффлера, с некоторыми не согласен и готов много спорить, но что я должен признать, так это то что с подавляющим большинством аргументов я очень таки согласен.Если вам интересно знать каким день будет завтра и тенденции изменения мира не забудьте подготовиться к ним заранее прочитав данную книгу.
نویسنده سالها پیش نشانههایی را از آمدن آینده میدیده که میشود گفت هنوز هم دیده میشوند و آمدن آینده را مژده میدهند. کتاب قرار است روندها و تغییرات حال را پی بگیرد و آینده را پیشبینی کند. میشود گفت همین کار را انجام میدهد، ولی خب نه چندان متهورانه. یعنی بهتر از آنکه تصویر آینده را بکشد، حال را تحلیل میکند.موج سوم که در واقع مجموعهای عظیم از تغییرات تدریجی است، زمانی دیده میشود که از بالا، بسیار بالا نگاه کنیم. یعنی شاید واحد زمان دهه باشد و تازه زمین و زمان سرعت گرفتهاند که اینطور شده است؛ یعنی موج
نویسنده سال‌ها پیش نشانه‌هایی را از آمدن آینده می‌دیده که می‌شود گفت هنوز هم دیده می‌شوند و آمدن آینده را مژده می‌دهند.
یعنی بهتر از آنکه تصویر آینده را بکشد، حال را تحلیل می‌کند.موج سوم که در واقع مجموعه‌ای عظیم از تغییرات تدریجی است، زمانی دیده می‌شود که از بالا، بسیار بالا نگاه کنیم.
یعنی شاید واحد زمان دهه باشد و تازه زمین و زمان سرعت گرفته‌اند که این‌طور شده است؛ یعنی موج دوم تغییرات را باید با واحد زمانی صده دید.
مثلا نویسنده فکر می‌کند که ساختار سیاسی همه کشورهای جهان برای حال و آینده ناکارآمد است و فرقی نمی‌کند کدام گروه سرکار باشد.
کاش قصه آینده بود.
I read this book in 1983 just by accident and it is THE greatest book that I have ever read. How close was Toffler in understanding history in such a grand sweep.
dibuat pada tahun 1980-an jelas, belum datang masanya email, komputer, internet, handphone, ipod, dan ledakan penemuan lainnya yang telah mengubah wajah peradaban.
tapi, bak seorang cenayang (Mama Lorentz kalah telak!!) Alvin Toffler, dg jeniusnya meramalkan bagaimana rupa peradaban manusia di masa depan (baca : coz buku ini meramalkan masa depannya puluhan tahun kedepan sesudah buku ini dibuat, artinya masa sekarang)Well, mirip-mirip bukunya Naisbitt ato Hutingtonton ato Fukuyama lah (dan sederet para cenayang 'ilmiah' lainnya), buku ini tak jauh-jauh dari pembahasan mengenai kemungkinan gejolak ekonomi, politik, sosila, budaya, agama, dan tentu saja, terorisme.
pokoknya Naisbitt banget lah...Mambaca buku seperti ini membuat kita berpikir, 
خیلی عجیبه!اونم دوتا چیز خیلی عجیبه!اول اینکه چطور ممکنه کتاب شوک اینده ی اروین تافلر توی بوکریدز نباشه؟دوم اینکه چطور یه خبر نگار انقدر نابغست!ما همیشه فک میکنیم خبرنگارا کسایی ان که فقط حرف دیگه رو تکرار میکنن ولی واقعا اینجور نیست!اینکه تافلر انقدر خوب همه چیو پیشبینی کرده و اتفاق افتاده اینکه قبل از فروریختن شوروی یه کتاب داد و دلایل فرو ریختن شوروی رو توضیح داد در نوع خودش فوق العادست!این کتابو یه دکتر اقتصاد بهم داد و بهم گفت قبل از پزشکی باید اینارو بدونی و بفهمی دورت چه خبره!نمیشد شروعو بذارم بعد تموم کردن این کتابا
از نگاه تافلر سه موج به ساحل زندگی بشر برخورد کرده. هر موج بر سر موج قبلی کوبیده میشه و همه پارادایم ها و اصول قبلی رو به هم میریزهکتاب ارزشمندیه و خوندنش یه باید
who is the producer." So many Internet niche marketers (today’s most popular and fastest growing business model) would read this and agree.
Key insights:(1) Companies needing to take on full responsibility for the consequences of their actions on society and the environment;(2) Companies becoming much more important social institutions of change;(3) Information moving to the center of major decisions;(4) Government spreading its influence so that business and politics become inextricably entwined; and(5) Institutional ethics coming to more closely reflect social ethics.
Once again, with the proliferation of companies taking their selling to the people through "ethically enhanced" business models, or the more modern version of multi-level marketing companies, it is fascinating to see how Toffler's predictions have come to light.
1970...future shock smthing is gonna change,it will change in the fastest way it could! here he discuss the effect that the rate may cause,& leave the tehem of the "change" 4 his next book to discuss! 1980...third wave he define us the chaneg we r facing or going to face in future decades in details 1990...power shift this change "third wave" will affect the basics of distribution of the meaning of the "power" in society!
Елвін Тоффлер в 1980 році описав як буде жити інформаційне суспульство. Можна судити що він в бішості вгадав по всім статтям. І інтернет-форуми, і 3D-друк, і розвиток екологічних засобів добування енергії, і доступність інформації для усіх і всюди. В принципі те в майбутнє в якому ми живемо. Тільки це майбутнє розповсюджене нерівномірно.
3 salient waves of major change have greatly transformed civilization: (1) farming (began with invention of agriculture) , (2) factories (the industrial revolution), (3) our electronic information age (characterized by each individual using a personal computer to extend creativity and enhance happiness). As we move from one major wave to another, upheaval can occur.
The book shines in two main aspects .1.
It presents an extremely coherent and simple explanation to every relevant aspect in today's societies , from economics to politics and from arts to technology.
It helps the reader to understand why things are the way they are.2.
Regardless of that I thoroughly recommend this book to anyone, at the very least it will give you a different perspective on things .
Nice book
According to Toffler's picture of this newest stage of human civilization, we are going to return to many of the best parts of the First Wave, including such things as power decentralization, regionalism, and "prosumerism," or individuals that produce much of what they consume.
Toffler predicted many aspects of this Third Wave future, some of which came to pass, and some of which did not.
An increased concern with environmentalism, which Toffler predicts as one of the most important aspects of the Third Wave, may be growing, but it is at a dangerously slow pace.
Son muchas las temáticas que aborda, pero a final de cuentas, el cambio está ahí, y no importa qué sea lo que diga el discurso oficial, nadie puede parar esto, y ´buscará entrar a la nueva sociedad global.
A pesar de ser de investigación, me encantó ver que estos cambios siguen presentes, y Toffler sigue siendo un profeta, pero también una guía de nuevas proposiciones para como se ha ido conformando la humanidad a nivel global, y como esta se ha ido adaptando, sin necesidad de caer en repeticiones en serie, sino reiterando la diferencia como algo bueno y rescatable.
At the time it was a fairly accurate prediction of some changes in technology and our society.
I had bought 'The Third Wave' quite sometime ago, and finally got around to reading it.
Presentation of historical information I found particularly interesting, but he seemed to struggle with exactly what this "third wave" will consist of.
The last section dealing with what he thinks should be changes to our political system I found unrealistic at best.
Not that changes can and should be made, but he argues for a totally new form of government.
Read many years ago. Interesting as he describes how life, culture, economy, politics--everything changes as these "waves" of progress occur. We are currently in the Third Wave--going from an industrial economy to a technical/computerized wave. He states that the change-over years are always tumultuous because you have a faction of individuals not prepared/educated to move forward. We can see where industrial cities like Detroit are having difficulties and unemployment because either these companies are computerizing their work [thus eliminating unskilled workers] or outsourcing. A great book to read now!
I do not agree with most of the explanations in this book. Mr. Toffler himself at one point confesses that he doesn't know why Third Wave phenomena are happening, and when he does offer an explanation, it is overly materialistic and occasionally just plainly Marxist.However, the book is absolutely brilliant. It is astonishing that it has been written in 1980; it could be written today and become a bestseller. Many things predicted there already happened (communication revolution, breakup of nuclear family), but some are happening right now (electronic cottage). You should read it.
In the first wave, power came from violence or force. In the second, the Industrial Revolution, power came from wealth. Today, it comes from knowledge. The battle for the future is going to be over information. Unfortunately, the book takes 500 pages to say that.Toffler's other books are stronger and if short on time, can be read in exchange for The Third Wave. However Alvin does write a particularly touching foreword about his wife who has been his long time writing partner.
I read this book as part of my course at university, suffice it to say usually anything assigned to you for reading is a bore and usually you end up disliking it.The more I read this book the more it intrigued me, I loved the clarity of vision with which trends in technology, society and human development were charted out.Unfortunately after 10years that's all I remember looks like I will have to re read this one to refresh my memory.
Another read for those who are interested in the economy. I've read it about three times now (one for every wave... hardy-har-har!) and it never ceases to amaze me how on-point Alvin is with his predictions based off of past economic trends.
I've never read a book as many times as I've read this one. Alvin Toffler has done a good job in predicting the trends over the last 30 years.I'm exciting to see the breakthroughs that they predicted in the genetics industry in the coming years.
Great book for near future Especially in developing countries
best book in The matter of future comunication
La segunda ola fue la industrialización que permitió la producción en serie y reconfiguró la economía, la educación y la estructura de la familia.Toffler explica que está naciendo una nueva ola, la tercera, y que se basará en la comunicación y el conocimiento.
Además, dice que esta nueva ola entrará en conflicto con la segunda, puesto que los representantes de esta ola no querrán perder su poder.Escrito en 1979 este libro predijo con mucha precisión cambios que se dieron en los siguientes 30 años.
Toffler pudo analizar el pasado y el presente de su tiempo para visualizar las evoluciones educativas, sociales y políticas de todo el mundo.El libro sorprende en muchas partes.
Toffler uses the metaphor of a "wave" to suggest the way in which these changes to a new type of civilisation occur: the change builds up and travels through the civilisation, transforming social structures, understandings of reality, even our sense of ourselves, in their wake.
The effects of this Second Wave have still not been fully felt across the globe, and won't be complete until the entire world exists within industrial reality, although Toffler says it is currently reaching the final stages of its transformative effects.This brings us to the Third Wave, which is what Toffler says we are undergoing right now.
