https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428520.A_History_of_the_Crusades_Vol_II
The second volume: The Kingdom of Jerusalem and the Frankish East; tells us the history of the princedoms, until the Battle of the Horns of Hattin and the defeat of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, the reconquest by Saladyn. An excellent narrative, and a masterpiece of scholarship accuracy and detail. The history of golden age of the Kingdom and Saladyn's rise to power and the complex interactions of the leaders. From the great statesman King Baldwin and the conflictman Reynald de Chatillon. Finally I can say Runciman makes a comprensive and detailed book about the crusades. I recommend this book.
He may be the comfy old cardigan of Crusader studies now, but I’ve just read this Vol II in conjunction with Christopher Tyerman over these events, and Sir Steven, humane-minded, joying in the plural cultures that were the Holy Land, was rightly knighted, I say.
A challenging and difficult read, with character names among the Franks, the Byzantines, the Armenians, and the Arabs (among many others) that may seem to repeat and confuse, and many locations largely unknown to the modern western reader.
Our western view of knighthood and chivalry is sorely tested by the episodes retold in this book, which are largely based upon first-person accounts copiously cited by the author in comprehensive footnotes and a lengthy bibliography.
Not a book I'd recommend to a reader with a casual, passing interest in battles, sieges, and knighthood, but certainly a must-read for those enthralled, as I am, with the history of the place and period, and who have a background in the subjects at hand.
As before, I quite enjoyed the fact Runciman also talked about the women that were part of the history of the crusades.Given these developments, it’s no surprise that the heroes of the second volume are undoubtedly the Muslim princes that rise up to unite Islam and rout out the Christian invaders.
Saladin appears as a particularly endearing leader, both fierce and compassionate and kindly to his enemies when they surrendered (let’s not forget how “gracious” the crusaders were when they entered Jerusalem for the first time – wadding through rivers of blood was mentioned in case you were wondering).As far as readability goes, this second volumes has some pluses and minuses.
I liked the fact that he got into a lot of the details about the political happenings in the arab world during the period.
Over and over, you read and the arab disaray allowed the crusader states to stick around as long as they did.
But, Runciman takes you through the issues that the arabs were facing during the period.
One issue that was a little tough for me, was that he did not use enough dates in his work.
Reading the two side by side was a good experience because I was able to use the hard facts from Runciman to ground the fictional novel about the same period.
The Crusaders, no doubt, had, man for man, probably better weaponry and tremendous valor, but, in the Middle East, but they never were able to unify fully behind an effective leader, nor was there any statesman among them capable of seeing the greater picture if Christendom was to continue to rule the Levant --- and make common cause with the Byzantine Empire and all its assets.
But again it carries the assumption of at least a passing familiarity with the Holy Land, spewing out places and cities with abandon - and it suffers, as I seem to recall, exactly the same major flaw as its predecessor - all the maps in the book are thrown onto random pages throughout, not really relating to the sections they're in: had the editor put all the maps on the first few pages, for easy reference, the book would be a great deal more palatable for many.
A classic in history literature. Just as good as Sicilian Vespers.
Although this was published in the 1950s the three volumes are still a very serviceable introduction to the Crusades.
This is a top down narrative history mostly taken-up with dynastic struggles between Crusaders and Byzantines, Crusaders and Muslims, Muslims and Byzantines, Muslims and Muslims, Mongols and Muslims, and Crusaders and CrusadersThe success of the first Crusade was quite astonishing.
A not very well organised group of competing noblemen managed to march their army via Byzantium into the Levant and carve out a kingdom and retake Jerusalem within the space of a year or two.
"The Kingdom of Jerusalem" is a far better read than Vol. I "The First Crusade".
By now though, thanks to the foundation gained by reading Vol. I the names and places are more familiar.
This History is better documented than the previous book and the personalities on all sides are delved into a bit deeper.
You gain a better understanding of the establishment of the Kingdom, it's princes petty jealousies and Islam's ultimate triumph over the Franks.
This History is an eye-opener and to anybody who wants to gain a better understanding of where the Jihadist mentality came from, crack open this book and give it a go!
-Erudición y entretenimiento no tienen que enfrentarse, al menos no necesariamente-. Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. Desde la Primera Cruzada, con una mirada hacia atrás para entender el sustrato del Imperio Romano y su herencia, hasta la caída de San Juan de Acre, con una mirada hacia delante hasta Pio II para entender sus estertores, retrato pormenorizado y cronológico de los hechos, personajes y acontecimientos que construyeron el fenómeno conocido como Las Cruzadas.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
its rated highly by most readers but i think it lacks focus and doesnt progress right. it also reads alot like the bible. he rattles off a l0ng list of people and their relatives, marriages, then the name of territory. perhaps 7 or 8 relationships with very little detail. reminds me of sections of the old testament. then when theres action its flat. i really wanted to like it. library had the hardcover 3 vol set. i read about 150 pages of each vol and its all the same structure. not fun to read at all.
amazing ... traces the tragi-comic accounts of the second crusades ,aftereffects of the first crusades..an illuminating account of the rise of zengi,Nur ed din and of course the Sultan... salah ed din otherwise known as saladin...the deference to detail , the geopolitical detail in this book as in first is amazing...
Okay, so I mainly read the bits about Balian of Ibelin because I have a serious crush on the guy, but Runciman's history book is the best I've ever read. I don't even like non-fiction all that much, but I've gone back and reread bits of this multiple times.
A must for anyone who wants to be truly out of date
FS ed.
Put this one back on the shelf. Too depressing.
