https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9301.Rachel_s_Holiday
But if you think this book sounds like a horrible downer, it's not (hide spoiler)]; Marian Keyes is terrifically funny and she makes Rachel a sympathetic character and narrator.
The first person point of view is expertly employed to hide certain things from the reader, revealing them only as Rachel herself is forced to face the truth.
(I'm not usually a fan of first person POV because it feels like sleight of hand or amateur hour all too often, but it's absolutely appropriate and effective here.)I'm glad I stuck with this book even after my initial assumption proved to be ludicrously wrong.
And even knowing that she's in more trouble than she thinks she is, Rachel's done a thorough job of hiding from herself, so as bad as it is, you're almost as shocked as she is when confronted.Even that wouldn't be enough to give in five stars in my mental rating system, but when Rachel is forced to remember her early childhood, I abruptly found myself in tears.
And I don't know why it's Rachel, either.
If I were anyone in this novel, I'd be Margaret, the 'brownose' But for Rachel, I spent much of the second half of the novel in tears for her, and was so proud of her recovery.
Watermelon was pretty good, but this was way better.
I haven't read the author's essays apecifically about her alcholism, but I can only assume that she drew on some of her own experience with addiction to write this.
To learn things as she learns them, to see her experiences through her eyes.
In the first part of the book, she doesn't seem like some out of control crazy addict.
Later you learn about how she really was acting, the things she was doing (as an Oh yeah, I kinda was that way retrospective), and it's eye opening.
Whatever Mairan Keyes is selling....I'm buying.
Rachel's Holiday was wonderful and touching.
It is a talent to take subjects that are so seriouse and bring laughter and humor to them.
What a quirky, fun sense of humor Marian must have.
This book delved into the world of addicts.
I felt a great attatchment to Rachel (the heroin).
She had a lot of similar feelings and thoughts that I sometimes have.--It's hard to live in this world, when you want to please everybody.--I couldn't put this book down, and yet I knew that I didn't want to come to the last page.
Really great.
(From my book blog) I really hate the term “chick lit,” don’t you?
Have I mentioned that I really fucking hate those books?
I’ll get back to them eventually.Rachel’s Holiday came very highly recommended by my friends Jana and Ali, both of whom mentioned that this was one of the few books that has been with them many years, through various moves, bookshelf cleanouts, etc.
It’s written in first person from Rachel’s POV, and seeing her life fall apart through her eyes is insane.
I worship Marian Keyes for proving that chick lit (or, alternately, a book written by a woman for a largely female audience) doesn’t have to suck.
I thought it would be light, fluffy and trivial and what I got in reality was a horrible glimpse into the mirror of addiction and saw myself staring back.Rachel's Holiday follows 27 year old Rachel who lives in New York and parties like there's no tomorrow...
Two, the way Keyes allows the reader to glimpse more and more of Rachel, slowly twisting the way you see her from Rachel's own perspective to that of an outsider looking in on a drug addicts descent and subsequent rise from addiction.The novel touched a lot of nerves for me, and some of the descriptions of what it is like to be an addict made me cry with recognition.
This was not the light chick lit read that I was expecting, and as I started reading it, and getting more and more IRRITATED by this character's addiction and denial and self-destructive behaviour....I thought that I HATED this book.However, I actually quite loved it.
I HAD to know if she was going to come out of denial, if she was going to realize what a stupid beeyatch she was....I really needed there to be resolution for this story.What's interesting is that this writer didn't make the process light and fluffy.
I came to see why she had been such an idiotic idiot head!This book is what the genre of chick lit is supposed to be about: painful productive growth.

I think Marian Keyes is probably the most underrated author in the chick-lit section.My first book by her was "Lucy Sullivan is getting married" and it took me 2 attempts to finish it.
It's by far my favourite Marian Keyes book.
If you don't like it, I would think chances are slim you will change your mind reading the rest of them.Rachel's Holiday is Marian Keyes at her best.
Rachel's Holiday was one of the best books I've read in a very long while.
Rachel has just accidently overdosed, ended up in the hospital, and been railroaded by her family, roommate, and boyfriend into treatment.
Watching her come to grips with what remains of her life in New York, seen in the flashbacks Rachel has during treatment, is both very funny and very sad.
All this in a book that is easy to read, mostly delightful, and very honest.
I hope we see another book about this family (Watermelon was the first) so I can see how Rachel is doing.
This has been my favorite of all the Marian Keyes books I have read thus far!
The story of Rachel is a tale that one can identify with, even if you don't use drugs or drink excessively; this based on the ignorance and stupidity that most of us experience at some point in our lives, and silly as it might sound this book was also in a sense motivational.
The book really gets the veil lifted even if for just short intervals and because on some level one identifies with the characters, you feel the emotion so much more.
This is a MUST read!
While MK writes in her usual hilarious manner, this novel touched on the very serious topic of drug/alcohol addiction. It was interesting and most definitely entertaining but I felt that she pigeonholed Rachel's character to an irritating degree. The psychological analysis of Rachel's childhood was far too pat and I didn't believe that she could so readily accept her tenure as an addict. I enjoyed this book mainly for MK's typical sharp wit and rollicking anecdotes but overall I believe that this novel of hers is my least favorite.
Acabo de leer una crítica parecida a mi experiencia con esta autora con otro de sus libros y me queda claro que no es para míSí bien hay momentos puntuales buenísimos. .. algunos diálogos que te hacen soltar la carcajada y algunas ocurrencias ,no compensan el resto de la historia creo que esta autora no es para miLo he intentado, por si la conexión llegaba mas adelante...pero si empiezas al saltarte párrafos ya no es leer....Así que sefini
Rachel Walsh tiene veintisiete años, vive en Nueva York y su vida es un desastre porque solo puede levantar cabeza con cocaína en las venas, pero entonces un susto la lleva de vuelta a Irlanda a casa de sus padres, que la meten en una clínica de rehabilitación.
Y sus hermanas son igual de malas, pero fantásticas también, cada cual a su manera, y por supuesto que leeré los libros dedicados a ellas.
Ha sido una muy buena decisión volver a encontrarme con Marian Keyes y sus hermanas Walsh.
Toch weer een fijn boek om te lezen, maakt me erg nieuwsgierig naar de andere delen. Hoewel ik dit deel hier en daar toch wat aan de lange/trage kant vind, is het toch zeker wel 4sterren waard! Nu tijd voor de read-a-thon!
All the reviews showed this was about Rachel in rehab and did not sound light hearted at all.
There were also no English copies in the Zürich library.
The next week I spotted this at my favorite English book store and did not put it down for the next 4 days.
It is totally inappropriate for a conservative book club.
The book starts with Rachel not thinking she is a druggie.
The rest of the book flashes back to her pre-rehab life (hot SEX).It's too bad we are not having any more kids I could name a little boy Luke after the "real men." He he!
First I thought Rachel's Holiday was a shallow book, because Rachel was so shallow in the beginning of the book.
Well, but Marian Keyes certainly managed to get some depth in her book.
The book developed as Rachel developed.
In the beginning I thought just like Rachel that the putting of her in a rehab center was some kinda mistake.
I thought her problems weren't very serious.
I think Keyes really managed to describe drug addiction, its reasons and recovering from it.
Marian Keyes isn't crap really!
I really wanna read more about Rachel and her sisters.
3.5 starsRTC.
This was my favourite book for so long. Marian you make me laugh and cry. Rachel's Holiday was the best of the series!
You know, in that care-free chick-lit way, since I've had dissatisfaction towards the ending of other books recently.Okay.
In fact, if I wanted to read romance, reading this book could possibly the worst way to go.
So, what happened was, instead of reading a nice light romance, I spent most of the book pissed off at Luke.
I actually considered rating this 3 stars, because what I wanted was to read a book that would make me laugh, but what happened was the entire time I was reading, the tears just wouldn't stop.
En Rachel se va de vacaciones, la autora mantiene esa frivolidad aparente en su personaje principal y en la percepción que este tiene sobre los demás, pero lentamente da al lector una muy buena idea de la situación y esa frivolidad de comentarios llegan en momentos justos que ayuda a liberar la tensión de la historia que se está cocinando, lentamente.
Este libro despierta varios sentimientos, pero no es sensiblero y tampoco es un monologo de introspección o la vida decadente de un adicto, es una historia simple, que no simplona, sobre una situación y una visión particular de esta.
I have read this book so many times, marian writes about serious subjects and yet manages to inject humour into each serious situation and who better than the Walsh family, lots of Irish sisters each with their own traumas (see other books) and upsets supported by an amazing Irish mammy who cant cook and has her own amazing wit!
devour every book which has the Walsh family in it!
Marians demands by fan's for 'Helens story' and "more please..." Inspired her to write two more in 2012!
Rachel is living in New York and has no idea that her drug problem is completely out of control until she accidentally overdoses and finds herself back in Ireland in a rehab centre.Why is she here?
Being inside Rachel's head was so painful at times- why can't she see what's happening!
first read: February 2011re-read: December 2016I still love this book!
Rachel is not a person who is easy to like.
In spite of all that, I find her character and her story to be entertaining and funny.
Rachel's growth takes a while but it is worth it.
Now, let's talk about Luke and his time-share pants.
I love this man.
He's such a unique, loyal character.
Through most of the book I wanted to punch Rachel and take Luke for myself.
One thing I always wish for in Keyes' stories is more time with the couple together on the page.
This is an interesting book. I think it descripes addiction pretty well in a sense. But on the other hand, I find it a bit shallow at times as the author seems to display every addict as some kind of a crazy stereotype who doesnt want to accept that he/she is an addict. All kinds of people are addicts and a lot of people also enter rehab, well aware of that they have a serious problem, that their lives are in ruins and are ready to change. Not everybody is in there against their own will and doi
But on the other hand, I find it a bit shallow at times as the author seems to display every addict as some kind of a crazy stereotype who doesn´t want to accept that he/she is an addict.
All kinds of people are addicts and a lot of people also enter rehab, well aware of that they have a serious problem, that their lives are in ruins and are ready to change.
Rachel´s denial is very well described but sometimes she just seems too shallow and a bit dumb, to be honest.
One of the many things that makes Marian Keyes stand out is that she is basically a 'humor'-writer (and even a 'feel-good'-writer I guess) that is absolutely best when dealing with difficult subject matters. The second "Walsh"-family book deals with the middle sister Rachel's substance abuse problem (not that she knew that she had one) and the enforced "holiday" back home in Ireland to help her get her life in order after a hectic New York stint. Funny, captivating and wonderful.
Could have done with being about 200 pages shorter. Second book I've read about the Walsh sisters. The other one was better. Did feel like I'd read this before but if I had then it didn't make much of an impression on me. I was cheering Marian for not ending the book in the way you expected but it was short lived as this was before I'd read Epilogue. It does end like you expect it to. Not the worst chick lit book in the world but there are much better ones out there.
We think Marian Keyes' writing is fantastic. Rachel's Holiday is by no means just a chick lit book; it offers so much more. An Irish ex-pat is whisked back home to go to rehab. Marian Keyes' research into addiction and recovery was excellent. We learned so much (as does Rachel!) Humor and life lessons abound in this engrossing read.
I would not necessarily have picked out this book for myself, as reading about addicts is hardly my idea of fun, except I'm trying to read the books that have been selected for the BBC World Book Club and this was one of them.
Well, a good thing I did because it's really good.I'm amazed at how funny and empathetic Marian Keyes' writing is.
This is a book that deals with such a bleak, difficult subject, but does it with such humanity and good humour.
And on top of it, Keyes even wrote in a really nice, genuine romance!I would recommend this book, and I'm definitely going to read more by the author.
I decided to read it at a time when I was without a book.
It took me a little bit of time to actually get into the book but once I did I found it to be rather enjoyable – and honestly, it was highly addictive simply because I wanted to know how it ended.Filled with numerous amusing moments, we bounce around Rachel’s life and the events that have left her in a rehabilitation centre.
Once you’re into the story you soon start to ignore such things.Honestly, it was a really great, really surprising, read.
