https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/445655.Ensign_Flandry
Ensign Flandry by Poul Anderson is on its surface a far future science fiction action adventure, but not much beneath is an allegory about the Vietnam War and American foreign policy.
One of the most interesting parts of this book, and presumably about the Flandry series of exploits in general, is Anderson’s placing this future history timeline at a point where the Terran Empire is old and corrupt, with Flandry heroics keeping the inevitable wolves at bay.

The growing Merseian Empire have, for reasons unknown, begun to arm a sentient ocean-species against their land neighbours, and so the dying Terran Empire, only partially having any idea why they're doing it, decide to arm the sentient land-species of the planet against the ocean species.
What do they hope to gain by dragging the Terran Empire into a war over a nothing planet?
Along the way, we have everything you might expect from a spy novel: tense cloak-and-dagger action, ambiguous loyalties, the compromising of morals necessary to keep an Empire safe.
I'm not sure how this one slipped through the cracks for me. I've read a fair bit of Anderson in my youth. Most notably his Time Patrol stories and his Psychotechnic League stories.I picked up a paperback copy of Ensign Flandry at Camerons's Books in Portland, OR. If you live there, or are passing through, Cameron's is a bibliophile's used book store erotic dream. Southeast of the larger and infinitely more well known Powell's books, which also sells used books and could arguably be called a bi
Most notably his Time Patrol stories and his Psychotechnic League stories.I picked up a paperback copy of Ensign Flandry at Camerons's Books in Portland, OR.
When I saw it on the shelf, I wanted to read it because the Flandry series had a large influence on one of the biggest roleplaying games of my youth, Traveller.
He wrote this one in 1966 and it became clear to me that, on one level, the story can be seen as an allegory for the Vietnam War.This one is a page turner and when it ended, I was left very pleasantly surprised and hungry to read the rest of the books in the Flandry series.
Ensign Flandry, the first volume I’ve read in Poul Anderson’s famous series of books about intergalactic intrigue and espsionage reminds me, of necessity, of Keith Laumer’s famous Retief (of the CDT, Corps Diplomatique Terrestrienne) series and Harry Harrison’s Stainless Steel Rat series.
In fact, while the Retief books and Stainless Steel Rat books to which I referred in the opening paragraph also have the distrust of simple jingoistic causes and authority, as well, Ensign Flandry is the only one of the three that accomplishes its purpose through meaningful dialogue rather than ridicule.
Now I have a little bit of an odd review here and sorry if it's not as detailed as the rest, I would
Space opera done right. Fast, layered, unpredictable, with exotic worlds, challenging technologies and Big Questions in abundance. Joyously, there is no bloat (cf. the modern state of the genre), though there are some cliches in the female character department. Given the sheer exuberance and fun on offer, it is hard to begrudge the book. Forget comparisons to Bond and Hornblower; this is unique, and it is good.
Grade B. Book A1.
The story is decidedly misogynistic but I would argue that, given the time period in which it was written, that doesn't detract from its appeal.
For me it was a fun romp through the galaxy with beautiful companions.
Also, one of those companions was an archetypical warrior queen so the misogyny is toned down just a bit.Basically this is a classic sort of "boy and his rocket ship" adventure with a bit of real science and a lot of speculative science to bolster the plot and help with the suspension of disbelief.
My first foray into one of Poul Anderson’s created universes proved to be one filled with rip-roaring adventure, political intrigue, Bond-style romance and not a little bit of commentary on the soul-blackening compromise of world, or in this case Imperial, government. "Ensign Flandry" not only provided me with some of the everyman-hero-overcoming-all-odds storytelling I was hoping for but was also full of surprises.For the rest of my non-spoiler review, go here.
Flandry is a character I have enjoyed since I first read, way back in the 70s. The right mix of daring do and introspection, set against a backdrop of a 'Roman Empire' in space. Written with Anderson's gift.I will add that this must rank as one of the worst covers ever produced. Totally ridiculous, totally irrelevant to the stories inside, and seemingly designed to repeal any reader of sense and taste.
Cold-war era science fiction, this reads a little dated (only the alien female is seen as both a sex object and a warrior.) Despite showing its age, "Ensign Flandry" features some very nice alien environments, and the treatment of primitive cultures caught in a war between two superpowers is brisk and fun. The descriptions of faster-than-light space combat are engaging, too... Poul Anderson took the imaginanium -driven science and made it consistent and interesting.
I'm coming late to the stories that others cite for influencing their sci-fi games, and this is one of them. I found it for sale at a used store, and I think I certainly got my money's worth.It ran smoothly, but sparingly, over the action. There wasn't much description, and zoom, we were off to another scene. Kinda interesting, that.
It took a few chapters to get a handle on this book, due to characters, description of location, etc., but once this happened, the book took off for me. I really enjoy how Anderson develops his characters, and also makes each of the civilizations seem dimensional. I especially enjoyed the last few chapters, and the finishing chapter is top notch, with a great write up on morality and action.
This is one of Poul Anderson's earlier space opera's, first published in 1966. The technology is somewhat dated, as references are made to "record player" and "data tapes", but otherwise it is a wonderful yarn. There are a number of Poul's books in which Flandry appears, and I highly recommend them all to space opera fans.
The book, and its squeals is nicely done 'future' history that uses the template of the Byzantine Empire (humans here) and the Sassanid (aliens) Persians. Flandry is the capable but somewhat weary defender of a corrupt but necessary Empire. Worth a read.
Old Poul Anderson, putting the Cold War in outer space with a bit of Vietnam. Interesting conversations, actions, some plot twists and a bit of derring-do. Its fun to read some old school space opera.
Horatio Hornblower in space, as young Flandry is sent to a distant colony to help deal with the tensions between humanity and the lizardy aliens that are our chief rival in space.Fun bit of space opera with a bit of political intrigue mixed in.
Similar in approach to Heinein's "juvies", this is an early effort by the great Poul Anderson. Don't let the cover art fool you. There is more to this book than hot alien girls ... but I'm thankful he included some!
Dominic Flandry has all the elan of James Bond and is perfectly willing to play a bit loose with the law to protect the Terran Empire from falling into the 'Long Night' as Flandry calls a new dark age.
Early space opera, in the Captain Kirk vein. Holds up pretty well.
The James Bond of the future, Dominic Flandry's Scottish flair for problem solving and saving the world is fast-moving fun on a cosmic scale.
I found the story good. I had an issue though with the time gaps in the story.
This is a good space opera with serious, dark undertones. Anderson wrote this first volume in the adventures of Flandry long after he started writing about the character. I quite liked it.
Two classic genres - espionage and science fiction - blended together in a fairly quick pace make this book well worth a look.
Third time I've read it in the era of my personal book list 1998-2012. A good 'ol comforting space opera. Enjoy it for what it is, a good yarn from the 60s.
Rip-roaring old style sci-fi. Not deep by any stretch, but still a good yarn nonetheless.
http://pro-libertate.net/20090822/89-...
I loved The Saga of Dominic Flandry! I wish I still had these books. Perhaps I can find them and read them again.
Great book. A little cliche, but I forgive it because it was printed in '66.
