https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38359036-the-tattooist-of-auschwitz
This was probably not the best book for me to read at this time - but then again maybe it was...In the last years of her life, I would go with her to the German Consulate to prove she was still alive, so she could continue receiving her reparation checks.
During the darkest times, there will always be those who shine and Lale Sokolov was one of those.Like many survivors, Lale and Gita moved around until they found their place in Australia, began a family and lead a happy and successful life.
There are hundreds, if not thousands, of Holocaust fiction books in the English language alone.
It's based on the true story of Lale Sokolov, a Slovakian Jew who volunteered to go to Auschwitz to save his older brother and, through a combination of true grit and luck, he's able to survive and even fall in love.
Isn't that a bit heartless?But it's not subject of the book I'm rating.
This book isn't well written.
I wasn't surprised to learn that Heather Morris is a screenwriter, because she relies heavily on dialogue here and really struggles with prose (although, to be honest, the dialog leaves a lot to be desired, as well).
Lale Sokolov is a well dressed, charming ladies' man - however he is also a Jew. On arrival at Auschwitz in 1942 he immediately stands out to his fellow prisoners who save his life when he takes ill.
In the camp he is put to work in the privileged position of the 'Tatowierer' - the tattooist - to mark his fellow prisoners as they arrive in camp.
Although upsetting, saddening and at times quite unimaginable, there is such a beautiful love story at the heart of the tale that you can't help smiling at.
It's really not possible to know what it was like in Auschwitz or the other camps no matter how much we read about the Holocaust, but it is through the stories of the survivors that we can try to understand, even if only a little .
Heather Morris has retold the story of Lale Sokolov, a Jewish prisoner at Auschwitz who becomes the camp tattooist and while there finds the love of his life, Gita.
Lale from the first day he arrives in Auschwitz by cattle car, makes a vow to himself that he would survive this and after falling in love with Gita, he makes a promise to her that they will have a life together when they are out .
4.5 stars!!This is a historical fiction novel based on a true story.
Lale Sokolov tells his story based on true events.
I would say this is a safer read than other Holocaust novels.I really loved Lale's true story.
I loved the love story between Lale and Gita and how they fall in love at first sight.
I love a romance in a novel only when there is lots of suspense.
There are some scenes that are graphic but this is the Holocaust, a horrifying time and as I mentioned before this is a safer read than other Holocaust books.
this was a truly touching story about lale and gita and how the love they found for each other in auschwitz helped them survive.
and i feel rather heartless giving a book with that sort of gravity anything less than 5 stars, but i was very let down when it came to the writing and the way the story was told.
lessons on what it means to be human, how far one would go to survive, how love can be found anywhere, and most importantly, the power of hope.
He was determined to do as he was told, reveal little about himself and always be observant.Lale's upbeat manner as well as deference to his capo helped him secure the job of "Tetovierer", the tattooist.
Food and medicine are exchanged for gems and currency smuggled out of the "Canada" building where some of Gita's friends work to empty the pockets of clothing from new arrivals at Auschwitz.
The chilling accounts of total disregard for life are occasionally tempered by selfless goodness and sacrifice without which Lale and Gita's love story could not have been told.
I recall, as a child, accompanying one or the other of my parents to our family jeweler countless times.
It seemed as if some piece always needed to be repaired or purchased for one occasion or another.
For my tenth birthday I received a small sapphire and diamond ring which was too large and needed to be resized.
I felt, also for the first time, a cold clenching my stomach.
However, I do think this is a book that is well suited for young teens as an introduction to this very dark part of history.
”Based on an incredible true story”  as this states on the cover, this is the story of Lale Sokolov and Gita, the woman who he meets at Auschwitz, both prisoners there. At first Lale is working on a roof, and this is what he does for a while until his kapo says he needs a boy to do his bidding, run errands, bring him food and the like. Then fate intervenes somewhat again for Lale when he becomes the tattooist, the Tätowierer for both Auschwitz and Birkenau, a position under the Political Wing t
as this states on the cover, this is the story of Lale Sokolov and Gita, the woman who he meets at Auschwitz, both prisoners there.
Then fate intervenes somewhat again for Lale when he becomes the tattooist, the Tätowierer for both Auschwitz and Birkenau, a position under the Political Wing that answers only to Berlin.He meets Gita, whom he only knows by the number he tattooed to her arm, no words exchanged of course.
But love is not the only emotion he feels there, having to stand by as the likes of Mengele get pleasure from inflicting terror and humiliation on all, but especially the female prisoners.
This is an incredible book with a story that demands to be heard.  The year is 2018 and it gladdens me that books like this are still being written. It’s important that we never forget Auschwitz and that we never forget the war crimes Nazi Germany committed. Why? Because we need to know and understand what humanity is capable of, we need to know what extreme hate looks like so we can work towards building a world free from it. This is one of our darkest hours, and we need to remember it. This i
They were plucked from the mind of a dying old man (who is also the protagonist) who wanted his story to be heard by the world.
He wonders if for the rest of his life, be it short or long, he will be defined by this moment, this irregular number: 32407.” Lale was the man responsible for tattooing identity numbers onto new entries into Auschwitz.
In the depths of the death camp there is also life, love and family: three things we all need to stay alive.
And it wasn’t until she died in real life, many years later, that he released their story.
Audiobook....narrated by Richard Armitage....( done well):Survivors guilt....... a lifetime traumatic tattoo for a tattoo artist.....Incapable of being apprehended by the mind of the senses. Stories that need to be told.... This one sat for many years - decades - untold...Shame - love - guilt - survival - Love ..... it’s all here. Thank you to the ‘already’ moving & thoughtful reviews which came before me. Sad - Beautiful- powerful - emotional - honest reviews.
Adiante!...Os protagonistas da história são Lale e Gita:Lale é o Tatuador de Auschwitz — o prisioneiro judeu encarregado de tatuar os restantes prisioneiros do campo, com os números que os identificam.Um dia, uma beldade judia de olhos castanhos ( Gita ) encontrava-se na fila dos presos para tatuar, e no instante em que o sedutor Lale se apercebeu da sua presença, foi amor à primeira vista — Lale tatuava-lhe o braço, enquanto o olhar brilhante de Gita lhe tatuava o coração!Nesse momento mágico, Lale soube que iria sobreviver e construir uma vida com Gita, porque o Amor é mesmo assim — profetiza certezas infundadas!
“If you wake up in the morning, it is a good day.”  This was a really tough novel to read - I mean obviously, it is set in Auschwtiz - it was hardly going to be a walk in the park!I don't think I quite prepared myself, or wasn't able to entirely remove myself from the novel, so became completely invested and because of this, it absolutely tore me apart.Based on a true story - Lale uses his education and knowledge of languages to get himself a job as the Tatowierer after each Jewish family must volunteer one young male for 'work'.
They were, but this young man was fortunate, not a good word to use obviously, in many instances that found others either shot or beaten to death.
Maybe this is the story he needed to remember to survive, only he can know that.
The writing is less emotional than some, a kind of storytelling tone, which I guess makes sense as the author was telling a story.
Some of the guards, and all play their parts in this story.I do love how at the end of the book the author lets the reader know what happened to some of the main people in this novel.
Against all odds...The story of two extraordinary people, Lale and Gita survive the horrors of Auschwitz and find solace in each other.
The book is based on their true story.Lale has the job of tattooist and must tattoo numbers on the arms of countless men, women and children.
One day he tattooed #34902 on the arm and Gita.
He recalled this day as the day "he tattooed her number on her left arm, she tattooed her number on his heart." An incredible and memorable story that shows the strong will of human survival and the risks that so many took to save not only their own lives, but those of others.
The story follows their years together at Auschwitz and beyond the war.
A unsettling but gripping novel, based on the true story of Lale, a Slovakian Jew caught up in the horrors of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp during WW2.
He speaks several languages, so soon finds himself employed in the camp as the tattooist, the man responsible for inscribing prisoners numbers on their arms.
He soon meets and falls in love with Gita, a fellow inmate., but can their love survive the horrors of life inside a concentration camp?
I visited Auschwitz-Birkenau earlier this year and found it to be chilling and disturbing.

4 utterly unforgettable stars to The Tattooist of Auschwitz 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 This is the story of Lale and Gita Sokolov, two Slovakian prisoners at Auschwitz who fell in love and all the risks and sacrifices made by them and others to keep them alive and together.It all began with Lale and how he was chosen to be the person who tattoos numbers on the prisoners at Auschwitz and Birkenau.
As one can imagine, this was heartbreaking work; but as Pepau (a fellow tattooist) told Lale, at least it was being done by someone with a heart.
I was lost in the all my heart and soul lush coulee with eight of my Traveling Sisters reading The Tattooist of Auschwitz.The Tattooist of Auschwitz is a compelling and unforgettable story of hope and courage that is so beautifully written based on interviews with Holocaust Survivor Auschwitz-Birkenau Tattooist Ludwig (Lale) Sokolov.
We also felt hope in the love and affection Lale and Gita had for each other in such dark times.
Some of us did feel the love story seemed hard to believe under such horrific conditions but still allowed us to feel hope in times that seemed so hopeless.
It’s not that I find it too hard to read about atrocities, it’s that I worry that unless they are done right, fictional accounts run the risk of trivializing this horrific chapter in human history.The Tattooist of Auschwitz reads like fiction, but is based on interviews the author conducted with its protagonist, Lale Sokolov, over a three year period very late in Lale’s life.
A Jew transported from Slovakia to Auschwitz, Lale survived almost three years before the end of the war.
Ultimately, while it’s based in real historical events, The Tattooist of Auschwitz reads like a work of fiction.
Lale Sokolov survived the brutal hell known as Auschwitz for over two years where his “job” was to tattoo prisoners with their identifying number.
The author, Heather Morris, did an outstanding job giving Lale a voice.
It is so important that stories like this are not forgotten.This was a Traveling Sister read which really enhanced the experience for me.
To find this review, along with the Traveling Sister Read reviews, please visit Brenda and Norma’s fabulous blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....A big thank you to NetGalley, Bonnier Zaffre and Heather Morris for providing an ARC in exchange for an honest review!
As with all holocaust stories, my heart hurts. It bleeds for all those who suffered and still shocks me. But the survivors and the hope is unbelievably real. How anyone ever recovers, I will never know. Forgiveness and healing are themselves a miracle and Each story as necessary and precious as the next.Thank you, Lale, for sharing yours. 4.5⭐️
He wonders if for the rest of his life, be it short or long, he will be defined by this moment, this irregular number: 32407.THE BLURB: The Tattooist of Auschwitz is based on the true story of Lale and Gita Sokolov, two Slovakian Jews who survived Auschwitz and eventually made their home in Australia.
It shows the very best of humanity in the very worst of circumstances.Like many survivors, Lale and Gita told few people their story after the war.

3.5 Stars "Save the one, save the world." The story of Lale Sokolov is certainly one that needed to 
This book follows the true story of Slovakians Lale and Gita who experienced spending several years in the Nazi concentration camp during the Holocaust period.
Lale was a linguist; a Jew; prisoner 34902; and was a Tetovierer (tattooist in German) in the Auschwitz concentration camp in Birkenau, Poland.
I'm always fascinated on this darkest period of the history, hence I read books that contains the said theme whenever I have the chance.
Reading another memoir of one of the survivors made me envisioned what happened to the prisoners of Nazi Germany.
This is a fantastic read and probably the best book I have read for a while and what makes it even more compelling is that it is a true story.This is the story of Lale Sokolov, a Slovakian Jew who was held during World War 2 in the infamous Auschwitz prison camp and worked as the tattooist forced to mark each prisoner with an identification number.
This is a love story like no other and so much more as well.This is a book that took Heather Morris over 3 years to complete and was written from interviews with Lale.
Lale was obviously a charming rogue who managed to survive all those years in Auschwitz despite bringing himself to the attention of the authorities repeatedly and in very serious ways.
I found the author's style to be simplistic which left me detached from events.
I even felt occasionally that the book was aimed at a young adult audience as various atrocities were mentioned only in passing.
As a reader I never felt the pain or the sorrow, just watched it from a distance.
To me the author let the subject down.Fortunately the story is so incredible it stands up for itself.
Almost immediately, Lale was made the “Tatowierer” - the Tattooist of Auschwitz - he tattooed the numbers on prisoners that came into both Auschwitz and Birkenau and he saw the haunted looks on everyone’s faces.
One woman haunted him and he memorized her number and he waited.For Lale, being the Tatowierer had its perks.
The woman whose eyes haunted him, whose number he memorized: Gita.
Though it is a novel about life in the concentration camps during WWII, it is the love story Lale and Gita and one man’s willingness to survive when such a thing seems impossible.
The Tattooist of Auschwitz is a very powerful and emotional read.
The horror of human brutality entwined with inspirational acts of bravery and human kindness.I couldn't put this book down and ended up reading it in one three hour sitting last night.
I felt guilty even thinking about escaping the story to go back to my own comfortable life, and had to see it through to the end with the characters.I had tears in my eyes while reading this, and by the time I reached the Author’s Note and additional information I was properly crying.The Tattooist of Auschwitz comes very highly recommended by me.My review is also available on my blog here:https://littlemissnosleep.wordpress.c...
