https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805478.Letters_to_Karen
I rate this book 2.5 stars!Not what I was expecting.
Although some good points in the letters, there were also some I disagree with.
For example I felt that this book was too traditional where the woman in the marriage is the housewife and the man is the breadwinner.
Even though I love keeping things traditional, in this day and time roles have change.
This is definitely one of those books where you take what you want and leave the rest.
Unfortunately there will be more I leave behind than take with me.
Το βιβλίο "Γράμματα στην Κατερίνα" αποτυπώνει με πολύ εύστοχο και ευχάριστο τρόπο την έγγαμη ζωή,μέσα από τις συμβουλές ενός πάστορα-πατέρα προς τη κόρη του.Όλα τα θέματα που θίγει στα γράμματά του είναι πραγματικά ενδιαφέροντα και άξια θαυμασμού, γραμμένα με ρεαλισμό,σοφία,αγάπη και ευχές για έναν ευλογημένο γάμο.Εκτός αυτού,ιδιαίτερη εντύπωση προκαλεί ο πλούτος του λεξιλογίου του ιερέα,όπως και οι αλληγορίες και τα αποφθέγματα που χρησιμοποιεί.Ένα πραγματικό έργο τέχνης και πολύτιμος οδηγός που συστήνω στον καθένα ανεπιφύλακτα!!
This is a classic! These short letters that a father wrote to his daughter before her marriage are full of practical advice, humor, and tried and true wisdom. I'm already planning on reading through it again after my wedding!

This book has some very practical advice but alongside some very misleading ideas and explanations of life.
Over all this is a very sentimental and typical marriage book.
This book does not focus on God being the one that sustains the marriage and that marriage is not to make us happy but holy.
This book does not mention the gospel and the main point of marriage and thus errs in its ‘practical living’ advice.
When one does not understand the core problem, one then cannot prescribe the right solution.
But only give the advice that would get rid of the symptoms and not the core problem itself.
Charlie Shedd wrote a series of letters to his daughter in response to her question, "Daddy, how can I keep him loving me forever?" Kind of a sappy question, I guess, but I think it turned out to be a pretty nice book.As I said with his other book, Letters to Phillip, it does read as though it were written several decades ago, and yes, the author is a bit constricted by the gender roles of his time period, but in this little book Charlie Shedd gives sound marital advice to his daughter.
"Ayah, apa yang harus kulakukan utk membuat suamiku selalu mencintaiku?"Demikianlah hal yang dipertanyakan Karen - seorang gadis yang menjelang pernikahannya - kepada ayahnya, Charlie W Shedd, yang juga adalah seorang pendeta yang biasa menangani masalah2 dalam pernikahan jemaatnya..Pertanyaan itu pula yang menjadi awal dari ke-25 surat Charlie yang dibukukan ini. Dan mengalirlah segala nasihat Sang Ayah pada putrinya... tentang bagaimana dia harus mengetahui saat yang tepat utk menyampaikan hal yang tidak menyenangkan.. tentang kejujuran dan keterbukaan, tentang mengatur pintu komunikasi secara baik, dan akhir dari semua nasihat itu adalah bahwa cinta mereka harus menyatu untuk mencintai Tuhan...
This is actually the 2nd time I've read this book.
The 1st time I read it while still single, now of course I'm on the other side and was able to appreciate the author's wisdom.
Although some of the points made in the book are a little out dated, in the end it really is a good book about marriage and how to enrich your relationship with your husband.
The copy I read was a gift from my mom, I think she probably read it a couple of times and then passed it onto me.
This book was very personal to me because it was a collection of letters a father wrote to his daughter to advise her on love and marriage.
My Dad recommended it and it felt like those were indirectly the words he would have used.
Also, I am extra honoured he thought I could grasp something so mature and powerful at this age (though I'm no longer young anymore, I guess), and I also think he believes in the relationship me and my bf have shared for over 3 years.
It definitely taught me a lot and I cannot wait to share the wisdom with my beloved♥
Before getting married a friend of mine suggested me this book! And it was the best advise she could have given me in that particular situation. Some days before our wedding I was reading `Letters to Karen`, while my boyfriend beside me was reading `Letters to Phillip`.It was a fun thing to do because these books are very easy and quick to read books. You can find many tips on how to keep love alive over years, all written in a very warm and witty style.
Before getting married a friend of mine suggested me this book! And it was the best advise she could have given me in that particular situation. Some days before our wedding I was reading `Letters to Karen`, while my boyfriend beside me was reading `Letters to Phillip`.It was a fun thing to do because these books are very easy and quick to read books. You can find many tips on how to keep love alive over years, all written in a very warm and witty style.
** Books 172 - 2014 **Buku ini mengisahkan seorang ayah yang memberikan wejangan dan nasihat tentang hubungan manusia dan pernikahan kepada putrinya, Karen mungkin karena saya belum menikah jadi buku ini terasa biasa saja buat saya.. mungkin buku ini akan lebih tepat dibaca ketika saya sedang berhubungan dengan pria atau memutuskan untuk menikah.. saya berikan 2,5 dari 5 bintang untuk saat ini.. mungkin kedepannya bisa saja penilaian saya berubah.. hehe
This book really surprised me, it was letters written to a daughter about marriage advice from her minister father. He wrote them and they were made into a book in the 60's. The surprise was that so much of the council he gave was alot the same as I have heard from General Authorities and from Laura Brotherson ect. I will most likely give it to Saige when she becomes engaged someday along with And They were Not Ashamed.
This is a great book for anyone interested in strengthening their marriage. A father who is a minister writes letters to his daughter about love and marriage. The letters were eventually published int his book. Amazing! Daniel read the one for men called Letters to Phillip and he said it is what helped him win me over!
i read this SO long ago, but i remember that i really enjoyed it. it was short and kept my attention well (obviously, as i read it during a couple of super boring church services at a local church during "visitors week") i do hate rating books that i read as a kid, though, so i skimmed through it tonight and it still seemed really sweet.
I love this little book. It has been so helpful in our marriage. Miguel and I got hooked on Charlie shedd books with letters to Phil and so I got letters to Karen. Dr shedd really is a master of "homespun wisdom"
Each of the chapters taught me some new lessons, because the author Charlie W. Shedd gave some basic guidelines for a sucessful marriage. Of course, I am not going to be married to someone right now, but those little tips were good to know because I probably will be married someday.
The subtitle for this book is "On Keeping Love in Marriage," which is a good description of the book. These are letters written by a pastor to his daughter upon her engagement. My fiance and I are reading them together and we are really enjoying the conversations they spark.
Old-fashioned in its assumptions about the roles of women, and sometimes problematically stereotyping. Nevertheless, there is still quite a bit of truth within these engaging, funny letters from father to daughter on the subject of marriage.
An enjoyable read. The love of a father shines through.
Ditulis oleh seorang Pendeta. Merupakan kumpulan surat nasehat untuk putrinya, tentang hidup berumahtangga.
great advisory book about marriage and its problem. you should read it, either youre in a relationship or already married with three kids whatsoever. recommended to everyone :)
Well written marriage needs from a mans desires.
Advice to a new bride to be from her father. It's a little old fashioned and traditional, but I like the male perspective marital insight I'm gaining.
A very good book overall! There were a few points of his that I disagreed with it, but overall, I agreed with the book!
A father's letters to his daughter on her marriage. Sweet and thoughtful, but rather dated advice. Some of it is profound, some of it is 'honey, make sure you're hair is done.'
First book I ever read on marriage. It's probably a good idea if I read it again! (1965)
great book for guidance in relating with any guy, but especially boyfriend/husband. it's one of those books i'll probably want to read once a year. quick, easy, and enjoyable read.
This was another marriage book to add to the shelf. I really didn't feel like it was different or unique from the other marriage books available.
Really good advice- I would recommend this to every woman out there!
A real gem...it is simply written and down to the essentials.
