https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12527.Pilgrim_at_Tinker_Creek
This is the 2nd book I've recently read which was written in the 70's.
This is also the first book I've read by Annie Dillard.
There are many lovely passages.....Here's a sample excerpt I read a few times myself: "Unfortunately, nature is very much a now-you-see- it, now-you-don't affair.
These disappearances stun me into stillness and concentration; they say of nature that it conceals with a grand nonchalance, and they say a vision that it is a deliberate gift, a revelation of a dancer who for my eyes only flings away her seven veils.
For nature does reveal as well as conceals: now-you-don't see it, now-you-do".
The shifting seasons, attuned to the natural cycle, provide sporadic moments of enlightening contemplations about creation and the forces that make the world spin on its axis under the inanimate, unknown universe that allows stars to become the source of warmth and life regardless of an apparently soulless disorder of things.Dillard’s conception of beauty is based on emptying the mind and abandoning the constant recognition of the self to surrender to one’s surroundings, making the natural world the protagonist and not the background of our erratic, uncertain and insignificant lives.
one of those things that came almost literally from the sky, dropped on the table in front of me with a shrug an nil explanation.
It was an act as careless and spontaneous as the curl of a stem or the kindling of a star."The mockingbird took a single step into the air and dropped.
His wings were still folded against his sides as though he were singing from a limb and not falling, accelerating thirty-two feet per second per second, through empty air.
I had just rounded a corner when his insouciant step caught my eye; there was no one else in sight.
I have since only very rarely seen the tree with lights in it. The vision comes and goes, mostly goes, but I live for it, for the moment when the mountains open and a new light roars in spate through the crack, and the mountains slam.  pilgrim. One who embarks on a quest for some end conceived as sacred. Any traveler.Pilgrim at Tinker’s Creek can perhaps best be described as a journal - a travel journal, in which Annie Dillard tells of her pilgrimage to find God. Now if this was what I had unde
Any traveler.Pilgrim at Tinker’s Creek can perhaps best be described as a journal - a travel journal, in which Annie Dillard tells of her pilgrimage to find God. Now if this was what I had understood the book to be, I never would have read it.
She saw, but it did not mean anything but a lot of different kinds of brightness” … “But even after three weeks experience of seeing,” von Senden goes on, “ ‘space’ as he conceives it, ends with visual space, i.e. with color-patches that happen to bound his view.
"Thomas Merton wrote, 'There is always a temptation to diddle around in the contemplative life, making itsy-bitsy statues.' There is always an enormous temptation in all of life to diddle around making itsy-bitsy friends and meals and journeys for itsy-bitsy years on end.
It is so self-conscious, so apparently moral, simply to step aside from the gaps where the creeks and winds pour down, saying, I never merited this grace, quite rightly, and then to sulk along the rest of your days on the edge of rage.
The gaps are the spirit's one home...The universe was not made in jest but in solemn incomprehensible earnest.
I read "Pilgrim" every year. In high school I wrote my diary as a series of letters to Annie Dillard (so gay). It's basically about a really smart young woman wandering the forest and thinking about nature and god and philosophy and stuff. Think Thoreau reincarnated as a 24 year old chick in the 70s. It didn't win the Pulitzer for nothing! It's a great book to read when you're in a "none of this shit matters" mood. No celebrities. No pop culture references. No boys.
This was not a badly written book.
However, it should not be forced upon poor innocent high school students!
I have had to read a lot of boring books in my high school career, but this tops them all.
Just when you thought something interesting was going to happen she watches birds or something for hours.
I respect her art and her view of the world, but she has even said that it's silly for schools to make 16 and 17 year old kids read this book.
It should be left to the deeper, *tree-huggers* of the world.
For example, there are a lot of stories and anecdotes about nature that were really interesting: "On cool autumn nights, eels hurrying to the sea sometimes crawl for a mile or more across dewy meadows to reach streams that will carry them to salt water." These are adult eels, silver eels, and this descent that slid down my mind is the fall from a long spring ascent the eels made years ago.
I felt her human hands in everything, making the beauty that she often describes into heavy labored prose full of awkward strain and effort.
I love this book, but it frustrates me too. Maybe it's because Dillard was so young when she wrote it. But it doesn't deserve to be compared to Walden. Thoreau is arrogant and has a prescription for every one of society's problems. Dillard asks hard questions and agonizes over the answers. It's never an open and shut case for her. I'll read her books again and again, but I might be done with Thoreau.
I will never look at the world the same way again, and I will spend every day I have.Annie Dillard reminds me that if I live for a thousand years and write every day I will never achieve this simple, perfect beauty, but I never want to stop trying anyway.---Addendum!Now that I've been able to digest this book a bit more, I feel prepared to add a few comments.People have said that this book is about theology broadly, or theodicy specifically (that is, the attempt to make the idea of a loving personal god fit into a cruel, cold natural world.) I don't think that's true.
After graduating college, I entered the high-paying, hard-charging world of retail -- bookselling, to be specific, where I served as an assistant manager for a chain.
The vocabulary is as rich as the creek, the fields, the forests she wrote of, and the allusions to texts and authors equally impressive.Granted, some sections were more a hardship than others, but this was usually due to topic, not writing.
The world, so often ignored and taken for granted by each of us every day, is a constant miracle in ordinariness.
At other times, I was moved to laughter, moved to tears, disgusted, uplifted, fascinated...This is different than any book I've read before.
At many points, I just had to commit to keep reading, and I'm very glad I did.It might be helpful to the reader to do a little research about Dillard before you start so that you can get an idea of her perspective.
I started to read this and put it down out of frustration (it made me feel a little stupid), but I read a short description of Dillard written by Phillip Yancey in his book "Soul Survivors: How 13 Unlikely Mentors Helped My Faith Survive the Church".
She writes throughout one year at Tinker Creek in Virginia, observing and pondering in a way only she can.Between this book and Holy the Firm, I suspect Dillard considers herself a bit of an anchorite.
She specifically mentions that while she is writing this book, she is reading the Apophthegmata, and I think I'm learning that it is the way she limits herself to a small place - a writing room, a creek - that allows her to see more in it than others would.

No idea what I just read but it was beautifully written and strange and I'm glad I read it.
But most of all, I was relentlessly reminded of Dillard's place in it, and I became distracted, as one would when trying to appreciate one of nature's great marvels or quiet intricacies, only you cannot because the person next to you won't sit still and let nature do some of the talking.Too often I missed the forest for the Annie.Necessarily, for a narrative book like Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, Dillard must be present to witness and tell.
This story told me more about suffering than the rest of the book; it put a gnawing in the pit of my stomach and I recalled my own first witness of animals and insects maimed and perhaps suffering.
The narrator in Pilgrim at Tinker Creek expresses awe at the wonder of nature in four seasons in very poetic prose.
The narrator often had a playful voice when she described "stalking" creatures in the natural world at Tinker Creek, located in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia near Roanoke.Annie Dillard is also seeing the Divine in nature.
I don't know if each barnacle larva is of itself unique and special, or if we the people are essentially as interchangeable as bricks." Dillard often writes in a stream of consciousness as she puts down her thoughts about the presence of the Divine in nature, sometimes in awe and sometimes confused.
This book didn't so much change my outlook, as give words to feelings I had had for many years but never been able to articulate.
The funny thing is I've taught this book twice now.
The first time it was amazing; the students got it, and that unit really solidified my connection with that class.
This year I taught it again to a few students.
Dillard even mentions in the intro that she doesn't think this book should be taught to high schoolers, so maybe I was just lucky the first time.
Only regret, I read it too fast.
When reading _Best American Essays_, for example, I often hear unappealing voices (stuffy, self-satisfied, etc.) expressing smart or worthwhile ideas; in other words I like the thinking but not the thinker.
With _Pilgrim_ I felt differently: I loved--loved--the voice without always loving what was being said.
I don't like nature writing.
I don't like sentence after sentence of observations about birds and bugs that I don't find nearly as fascinating as the author does.
She has an interesting section on fecundity, and how humans aren't disturbed by plant fecundity (probably because we view plants as food) but we are severely disturbed by animal (including insect) fecundity.
She talks a lot about disgusting insects, and has a whole section on parasites.
She also has an interesting section on whether the world is a monster or are humans freaks?
She says giving humans (dogs, dolphins) feelings is what is cruel, not death like everyone believes.
She has a very interesting section about how people who used to be blind due to cataracts view the world after their cataracts are removed.
This non-fiction work is a meditation on the extravagance of God's grace. Or at least, that's how it seemed to me. Follow Annie Dillard as she tells the story of her life while living apart from humanity and studying nature - both animate and inanimate. No one writes like Annie Dillard, but new writers can learn much from the way in which she breathes life into words. Highly recommended.
Vividly I recall a comment from a friend in a book group.
She questioned, "And just what was it that you liked about this book?" Obviously, she didn't care for it at all which I have as difficult a time understanding as her question to me.
What didn't I like?
I loved the book.
I also loved the author's way with words.
Since that time I have purchased several copies and given them to friends who perhaps share and can understand my love affair with nature and simplicity.This is due for a reread...and I know just where it is!
It takes some mighty fine writing to make parasites interesting.Earlier in the book Dillard spends several pages discussing the hunting habits of the apex predators of the bug world, praying mantises.
Pilgrim at Tinker Creek reminded me of my prior admiration of the Mantis and encouraged me to do some research on them as I read.
Something I would now like very much to see one day.This is what I read for in my middle age, to learn and to see the world through someone else’s eyes.
Un bebé que acaba de aprender a mantener erguida la cabeza posee una manera franca y directa de mirar a su alrededor con perplejidad.
No estoy limpia ni soy bella ni tengo el control de un mundo brillante donde todo encaja, pero en cambio estoy deambulando sorprendida sobre un fragmento de madera, vestigio de un naufragio, al que he venido a cuidar, cuyos árboles roídos exhalan un aire delicado, cuyas criaturas ensangrentadas y llenas de cicatrices son mis compañeras queridas, y cuya belleza palpita y brilla no en sus imperfecciones, sino a pesar de ellas, de un modo sobrecogedor, bajo las nubes rasgadas por el viento, agua arriba ya bajo.»
Opening lines: 'I used to have a cat, an old fighting tom, who would jump through the open window by my bed in the middle of the night and land on my chest.'
This book is an example of a writer taking a subject as simple and complex as nature, and writing detailed, descriptive prose around it.
However, I've lived part-time in an area very similar to the Tinker creek that Dillard writes about and I share her feelings about the majestic qualities of the mountains and creeks.What I liked about the book though, is the same thing that makes me not give it the highest rating.
Too much of nature, not enough personal story.
Like Dillard writes, "I have often noticed that these things, which obsess me, neither bother nor impress other people even slightly.
To read Annie Dillard is to drink a potent punch that makes one realize what an absolutely horrendous, wonderful, beautiful, and brutal world surrounds us every moment of every day in every direction.
"Intricacy, then, is the subject, the intricacy of the created world," Dillard writes.
Mellifluous prose drips off the page like molasses; or maybe shuffles before your eyes like a kaleidoscope.
Only problem - 271 pages of watching kaleidoscopes makes a reader mildly dizzy.
It was a bit long, and I skimmed the last 75 pages.
I definitely enjoyed her eye for the sacred and grotesque, often concerning the same subject regardless.
I wanted to like this book but I found it boring to the point of aggravation. Dillard writes about nature with wonder and awe - sentiments which in theory I agree with - I just don't want to listen to someone ramble on and on about it for six hours.
This book is why I like book challenges because this isn't my norm when it comes to reading.
This book would have never made it anywhere near my pile, but I'm glad it did.
Granted, this is one of those books you have to be in the mood for and apparently I was today.
I loved the author's stories about nature and watching wildlife.
It was a peaceful read and at times it felt like purposeful journaling.
I couldn't figure out why since this book is mainly about her meanderings in Virginia.
However, it didn't really matter, because I liked the stories.
