https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17331349-think-like-a-freak
Pretty great for non-podcast listeners, but as someone who loves the Freakonomics podcast, most of this material has already been featured on there, and some of it in greater detail.
That all the Big Problems of the world are too tough to solve for ordinary people like us and that we should nibble at the edges.
- A bit about game theory and about how most problems arise due to private vs public conflicts and how we need learn to realign incentives to solve small problems.
Keep nudging the incentives and solving small incentive-problems.
That we should learn - to say “I don’t know” more often, especially the experts.
A few stories thrown in about how stupid people who try to predict the future are.- Also, don’t bring your moral compass into your predictions/decisions.
Think small.
I feel that a lot of self-help or businesses type books now all follow the same formula and in the end talk about the same few ideas again and again.
Like there really isn't a need for a whole book on some of these ideas like thinking outside the box or being comfortable making mistakes.
I really only get something out of reading them if I'm feeling lost unsure about what I'm doing because they kind of help me ground myself or become motivated again.
Otherwise though it feels like a waste of time like how many anecdotes do I need to read about creative thinking honestly.
The data suggest that happy people are more likely to get married in the first place.
It relies on data, rather than hunch or ideology, to understand how the world works, to learn how incentives succeed (or fail), how resources get allocated, and what sort of obstacles prevent people from getting those resources, whether they are concrete (like food and transportation) or more aspirational (like education and love).
A growing body of research suggests that even the smartest people tend to seek out evidence that confirms what they already think, rather than new information that would give them a more robust view of reality.
“Few people think more than two or three times a year,” Shaw reportedly said.
Levitt and Dubner’s earlier two books, Freakonomics and Superfreakonomics were smashing successes because they came up with innovative insights to make sense of phenomena that were rather mysterious, such as an explanation for the drop in the crime rate over the last decade.
They include platitudinous management suggestions that make common sense but not compelling reading, such as in the chapter on “How to Persuade People Who Don’t Want to Be Persuaded," and “revelations” about phenomena ranging from the etiology of ulcers to the causes of obesity that made the rounds of popular magazines years ago.
Think Like a Freak by Steven D. Levitt, Stephen J. Dubner is a book I wish had been around (or I had thought like a freak) thirty years ago. We used to call it 'thinking outside the box ' but I like their phrase much better! Excellent book to try to retrain my brain, not that it is trained now. I think everyone should read this, especially young people.
Levitt’s other “Freak” books, Freakonomics and SuperFreakonomics, but I suspect they’re just more of what’s contained in Think Like a Freak.
Not that I’m against this attitude in any way but it means Think Like a Freak is quite a shallow read.
Trotting out case studies to prove the benefits of thinking like a freak or outside the box, or whatever, doesn’t make this any more valid or compelling.
Think Like a Freak has a few interesting stories but it’s all in service to a completely uninspired and smug thesis that felt like a lazy product than a book they cared about writing.
I loved Freakonomics and its sequel, so was expecting more of the same here, but Think Like a Freak is a very different book and suffers by comparison.
The thing that absolutely blew everyone away with the earlier books was the absolute string of superb eye-opening stories, taking a sideways look at a problem using statistics and psychology (it wasn’t really economics, but it worked as a title).
Occasionally we do get a great little story – I particularly love the exploration of how to do better in football penalty shootouts – but there just aren’t enough of them, specifically not enough really surprising, ‘Wow!’ stories like the ones that fill the previous books.
The books starts by reviewing the thinking process of a soccer player who is about to make a critical penalty kick in the championship game of the World Cup. The authors turn to the data about penalty kicks to see where the player should direct the ball to maximize his chance of success.
While they aren't covering Friedman style weighty economic issues, this book is excellent for what it purports to be - a light-hearted treatment of thinking differently.
If creativity can be taught and if people are willing to take novel approaches to problem solving, then this book provides a way forward.
My fear is that that those who will be most helped by the book will be those who least need it and those who are hopelessly ossified into their own way of thinking will not change.
But that's the risk with any "self-help" book.
This book does nothing to cure my sickness: footnote-itis.
Only one-hundred-ninety-nine more footnotes to go.According to the authors, “the first two books were rarely prescriptive”.
This book teaches me how to redefine the problem by: thinking small, not big; not being afraid of the obvious; and, having fun.
So pour yourself that $1.65 bottle of wine (because it tastes the same as a $150 bottle), sit back, and enjoy this awesome book.Anything that sparks my brain into extra gear is a winner, even if my footnote-itis remains uncured.Thanks to William Morrow and HarperCollins for sending me this book to review.
This book won't be  2.5/5 stars  for everyone. If, like myself, you enjoyed Steven and Stephen's earlier volumes, Freakonomics and   Superfreakonomics  , then congratulations! — you've found a subject area that interests you (albeit a sometimes nebulous one that can show up under the guise of a variety of disciplines). If, for some reason, you only feel comfortable learning about the ways in which data and patterns can reveal the inner workings of our world with these two  Freakonomists,  then t
If, like myself, you enjoyed Steven and Stephen's earlier volumes, Freakonomics and 
I thought of giving a list of recommended reading here, but one of the cool things about Freakonomics is that its principles can be applied to almost anything — for me this has included books on the philosophical nature of humanity as well as ones that helped me figure out how to run a G-D factor analysis to draft my fantasy football team (spoiler alert: it wasn't that helpful for football purposes, but learning how to use 
but, honestly, you might not need to read this book in order to do that.
Like its predecessors, it is filled with amusing stories which usually highlight some economic or behavioral principle (such as sunk cost, cobra effect, etc...).
I feel that this gives the book a more coherent flow.
If you listen to the podcast, many of the stories will already be familiar to you.
This didn't bother me at all as I enjoyed reading them now more than listening to them the first time.
Because this book did neither, I give it a 4+, but I highly recommend it to everyone.
Read the book to find out...
Easy and fun to read. It basically discusses how one should approach problems (big or small) and provides general steps that would help if we follow them through, like admitting when one doesn't know something, figuring out the real problem and its roots, thinking like a child, looking for and providing incentives to get certain things done, and so on. It also has some really interesting ideas that I would like to try myself some time. I recommend it to everyone.
In this third volume, Levitt and Dubner are aiming to teach you the way of thinking outside the box as they do.With chapters as diverse as The Three Hardest Words in the English Language, How to Think Like a Child and Like Giving Candy to a Baby, they bring more stories and anecdotes that demonstrate just how lateral thinking can bring a fresh perspective on a problem, and that sometimes the uncomplicated answer is the correct one.Whilst this is a great read, Dubner writes some very readable text, it feels like a thin veneer rather than having the depth that the earlier books had.
I’ve read the two previous books, seen the movie, and I regularly listen to the podcasts.
So for a fan like me, this book was slightly disappointing because I’d heard most of the material before on the podcasts.
Thanks to Freakonomics, the subject of economics is more human to me, and I’ve gone on to read more books on the subject, most of them more academic in style.
But ultimately, I love what these authors have to say, so I’ll read/listen to/watch anything they come out with, and I’m always looking forward to more.
An entertaining read - or listen to be exact.
Nothing stupendously ground-breaking to be honest but it's stuff that one doesn't really think about being too caught up in the rat race and what might be construed as conventional thinking.
What I really like are the real world examples, while it might not be exactly relevant for my field of work in the financial sector, are more accessible and easy to connect to.
The audiobook has added material which is a compilation of a few Freakonomic radio/podcasts which I am still going through.
Pretty interesting stuff as well.
Might it prompt me to subscribe to their podcasts?
Levitt and Dubner continue to dazzle readers, freaks and soon-to-be-freaks with their fascinating way of combining data and narration to present interesting (and very much informative) stories on various fields.In this book, the "theoretical" ratio slightly increased than the previous two books as the intention is lay down the foundations of "how to think like a freak", basically how to rely more on "data" and less on "anecdote". It is still full of splendid stories.
The book is full of a wealth of interesting stories with non-standard approaches to problem solving. Incredibly interesting stories.----------------------------Книга сповнена величезною кількістю цікавих історій з нестандартними підходами до вирішення проблем. Неймовірно цікаві історії. I read books on Scribd or Google Books by Readlax Chrome Extension
The authors asked the question did the ads cause the sales?
Or did the sales cause the ads?
The company took out ads on the three biggest sale days: Black Friday, Christmas, and Father’s Day. The same company paid for advertising inserts in newspapers year round.
The authors suggested the company run an experiment to see if those ads paid off - by doing no ads in selected areas for a few months and then comparing sales data.
I don’t think I’d want to invest money in that company.The authors looked at religious communities in Germany - or somewhere near there.
Think like a Freak is a book that teaches people to think like kids.
They made a website that asks people to flip a coin on whether or not to make a major decision then report how happy they were at a future date.
Their conclusions came to the fact that there is an upside to quitting something.They advise getting into other people’s minds and figure out what really matters to them to get them to do what you want.
Watch what they do rather than what they say is how they offer to accomplish this.Also included in the book were other people’s stories where they thought like freaks and became very successful.
This book is similar in format to their previous works - present a supposedly unconventional idea and support it with some entertaining storytelling. It's a very fast, mildly interesting read. Unfortunately, I had the feeling that I'd heard almost all of these stories elsewhere, so the book feels more like it's filling out a book contract than breaking great new ground in human thought.
Полезнее фрикономик, но мало.
I listened to the audiobook and couldn't get excited. This was suggested for book club and I have not read any of their previous books. Nothing out of the ordinary here. A few stories got me laughing. Especially the one about people stealing more wood on a trail with a sign asking them NOT to, than the trail that had no sign at all. 2.5 stars rounded up kindly to 3.
Bunch of really interesting stories. Just think outside of the box!
Тепер при словосполученні "фантастична трилогія" я уявлятиму не Володаря Перснів. Сукупність математики, статистики, логіки, економіки і ще чорт зна чого у раціональних пропорціях у вигляді конструктивної методології можуть стати довершеним способом пізнання дійсності. Якщо ви "нормальна людина", то вам буде важко не піддатись численним спокусам нормальності, тому прочитайте цю книжку і думайте як фрік!
The premise of the book is that we spend too little time in analyzing issues from different angles, and end up making wrong decisions too often."The conventional wisdom is often wrong.
"I LOVE folks who can understand the difference between correlation and causality.
I think it is absolutely fundamental to decision-making, but is ignored frequently enough.
The authors talk about incentives, causality, ultracrepidarianism (quite a mouthful, eh?) and storytelling, among other things.While the content of this book doesn't differ too much from earlier ones, I still found it deeply insightful and useful.
In this book, the authors continue in the same vein by presenting counter-intuitive ideas illustrated by interesting stories that help the reader to understand why those ideas actually do make sense.The authors go a little further this time by trying to help the reader make better decisions by thinking like a freak.My husband and I listened to parts of this together on a car trip; we shared laughs and our ideas on what we heard.
Either way was very enjoyable and entertaining!I am not sure my brain is fully freaked out yet--I am looking forward to the next Freakonomics book!
لم أتوقع أن أنهي الكتاب والحمدلله بهذه السرعة! لكن الكتاب (خفيف) بعدة معايير؛  معلوماته الجديدة القليلة مثلاً،  أفكاره التي يمكن تلخيصها في صفحة واحدة أو اثنتين، أسلوب كاتبيه وهو أسلوب ولا شك بسيط وممتع.  يختلف هذا الكتاب عن سابقيه بهذه (الخفة) غير المحمودة طبعاً،  ويفتقر إلى وجود صورة متكاملة أو موضوع مطروح بعناية من كل زواياه.
referred in Adam Grant's list "The 12 Business Books to Read in 2014": http://www.huffingtonpost.com/adam-gr...
