https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400924.Chronicles_of_the_Black_Company
It's filled with amazing descriptions of places and people, of journeys to the end of the world and of battles against the darkness.Glen Cook really manages to shape the legend of the Black Company into a great work that any fantasy fan should find the time to read.
Through the experiences and musings of Croaker, the reader experiences a haunting story of war and death, love and loss, and even regrets and nostalgia, as the annalist recounts memories from earlier, happier days.“With the Black Company series Glen Cook single-handedly changed the face of fantasy—something a lot of people didn’t notice and maybe still don’t.
"Oh, 'twould be marvelous if the world and its moral questions were like some game board, with plain black players and white, and fixed rules, and nary a shade of grey."war is hell.
and so characters like Shed the Innkeeper and the tyrant known as the Lady - much like soldiers with names like Elmo and Croaker and the Captain and the Lieutenant - become real in a way that i have seldom seen accomplished in other works of fantasy.great job, Cook.
giving up at 31% (after reading book 1).
OH...The Black Company, how you have won my heart!
Reasons you should read this series1.
Bad-ass Mercenaries2.
Magic and Creepy Ass Wizards(Goblin)<---Still love him!4.
The Dominator <---Ok, I will admit, every time I read this my mind went into the gutter.7.
(view spoiler)[Still mad at him...damn him!
(hide spoiler)]8.
The Characters, they're original and you really connect with them.
I love high/epic fantasy, and this was my first try into dark fantasy and I have to say that I'm a new fan.
I recommend this to anyone that is ok with characters DYING!!!
Ugh, my heart still hurts for those that perished.
We had the pleasure of reading this book from Croaker's narrative, who happens to be the Annalist of the Black Company's POV.
While i no longer blacklist books (yes, i was that finicky) simply for being in first person narrative, i absolutely do not understand why every single thing has to be from Croaker and there's a shit load of characters in the book.
Reading Croaker's perspective it's easy to think the author's writing is shit, which it is for the most part but in Book 2 and 3, the writer introduces not sure if it's 2nd or 3rd Person Pov for other characters not in the Black Company and it's brilliant.
The people they work with only consider them a useful tool to be discarded when they outlive their usefulness, so expect a lot of backstabbing and double-crossings always present in Glen Cook's writings.
The mercenaries are definitely not nice guys, who do a lot of dirty work, but they grow on you and I found I cared about them by the end of the first book.
In this book it is a guy who also happened to be the Company's surgeon aptly named Croaker; he does not spend his time writing about nature, landscapes, cloths, food, etc.
Any book that makes me want to drop my relatively comfortable life to join a mercenary company with at best a fluid sense of morality is doing something right.
I accidentally began reading the second compilation of books in this series (The Books of the South) before this one, but I quickly realized that it seemed that I was missing a lot of information.
It also means that most of the characters we encounter in the Black Company are morally ambiguous, which is exactly one of the things I like in a fantasy novel.
I read about the first 75 pages of the first book, The Black Company, and I just can't get over the feeling that something is fundamentally missing from the story.
I can't get a handle on who exactly the Black Company is, how many of them their are, their history, or any specifics on the individuals who make it up, past vague generalizations.
More time is spent detailing the one new addition to the group, Raven, than on the narrator, Croaker, the few important magicians, or the seldom mentioned chain of command.
Glen Cook drew me in, led me to fall in love with characters, and then let me down.
I had to push myself to get through this book.I love the characters.
I liked how each of them had their own personality and feeling to them (something the Nazgul lacked).
I didn't really like how they flew on carpets though...The books lost my attention when Glen Cook would choose to skip important details about events by not including Croaker and just skipping to the result of the event that we never got to read about.
Ok, since I don’t have Mr. Greg’s reviewing skills I’ma keep it short and simple! This is like somebody gave the guy who wrote this book a fucking Minigun and loaded with bullets of awesomeness and told him to aim directly in to my brainand then the mother fucker went trigger happy! This is good shit! I read it twice in a fucking row! It got it all! Awesome wizards, kick ass villains, drama, action, more action and more drama! And the hottest villain ever!!! EVER!!! I have a crush with The Lady now! I love this mother fucking book!
G.Cook's writing style takes some time getting used to. He often drops you in a middle of things without much explanation and it feels like you've missed something. Don't worry - all gets explained as you go along.But if you like grim-darks, grey cynical characters, sly humour; if you like your fantasy full of action and character interaction with none of the boring food, scenery and clothes descriptions - it's totally worth it. :DThe Black Company 3.5 * reviewShadows Linger 4*The White Rose 5*
He is one of the first if not first one to write dark fantasy and bring it on a personal level that is now all the rage like the works of the George R.R. Martin, Joe Abercrombie and Steven Erikson, where fantasy during his time were still Tolkien copycats with a band of heroes going on a quest. Basically he wanted to write fantasy based on his experience during the Vietnam War.
Tired as we were, we expected to see more bitter fighting before winter slowed the war's pace."Croaker!
The men were harvesting the fruits of victory."They're barbarians," the Captain observed without rancor."Got to let them cut loose sometimes," I reminded him.
"Better here than with the people of Lords."The Captain agreed reluctantly.
It left the men disdainful of women warriors, despite their having fought better than their male compatriots.Smoke began drifting our way.
The Captain muttered, "Croaker, go make sure those fools don't fire the forest."I rose, picked up my bag, ambled down into the din.There were bodies everywhere.
For the most part, Cook eschews made-up words -- everybody in the Company goes by nicknames, and most of the cities are named things like Deal, Juniper, Oar, etc.)
Couldn't keep reading...This book got such good reviews in the places I checked and I had had my eye on it for some time, so I was looking forward to enjoying a great fantasy story.
I felt like I was reading something my grade 6's would write!
I could get NO feeling for any of the characters so far, not even the narrator - they all felt flat and contrived and empty.
So I abandoned this book...life is too short and there are too many other good books to read to waste time on one that doesn't pull me in and keep me hooked.
The Black Company - 4 stars - Shadows Linger - 5 stars - The White Rose - 5 stars
Fantasy books that make it so easy for the reader to identify the “good” and see the “bad” as nothing but true evil.
I suppose if you see life through rose-colored glasses, a land in which Good is never beaten for more than a generation and bad men always get their just due, whether it be at the point of a sword or falling into molten lava grasping with a ring, well, books like these will be quite shocking to you.
Good and evil are on a sliding scale, and men and beasts move across the scale, whether voluntarily or by force, or merely by being a victim of circumstances.
Military fantasy about a company of mercenaries, with one of those completely flat, non-ideological conflicts where we’re told X and Y persons are evil, but we have no context for any of it.
Just don’t’).I think my real problem is that this is told by the company doctor writing the history.
And then the book is cutesey magical duels and non-ideological battle summaries.And I’m pretty sure if you want to swallow that down, you need to actually like the 98% elided bland military fantasy Cook wanted to write.
I've read the first two books in Serbian, but the translation was discontinued over a decade ago. Looking forward to reading it again, this time in English.
Full review to be submitted at a later date - but it's safe to say that as a reader, and as an ex-soldier, this is one of my favourites.
"The Black Company" is quite simply the best fantasy series I have ever read.
When asked for the elevator pitch for "The Black Company" I usually say that it is "Band of Brothers" set in a fantasy realm.
Usually, eyebrows go up and even those who have never read fantasy are suddenly interested.
The first person narration is provided by "Croaker" (the reader soon finds that all Black Company members are given a pseudonym, having cast off the names of their families).
Whether you like fantasy or not, check out the first book.
If you like it, keep reading.
A great read... Cook is arguably the father of all the gritty fantasy that has followed. Can't wait to read more in the series.
"Oh, ‘twould be marvelous if the world and its moral questions were like some game board, with plain black players and white, and fixed rules, and nary a shade of grey."
I came to this via Erikson and Esslemont's Malazan series, and the influence on those authors descriptions of military life from this trilogy is apparent.I'd imagine that when this came out it was quite different to other styles of fantasy on the market (as I recall from the early 80s).
the missions, and fights, and often variable morality makes one think of modern warfare rather than traditional fantasy warfare.
I could go on, about the Taken, and the Lady, and the troops of Black Company but I won't.
you won't regret it.
I really liked these books.Thinking back on it, I can't remember much of the first book but I do remember that I wasn't really that interested in the story until the Second book.
Maybe one character's point of view in a sort of memoir style about what happened in their life with detailed accounts.
The books are written from the point of view of Croaker, the Company Annalist and the Physician.
The Lady was and is my All-time Favorite character in this series.
I liked the way the books were written.
What I didn't like about the series was that there were some pretty sharp gaps in our knowledge.
I identify so much with The Black Company characters that I actually start to miss them, and end up re-reading the entire series again every few years.
Ergo, narration suffused with real-time agony and sweat, and even here and there an irrepressible sense of wonder that will not be extinguished.One last thought on the writing style: I love how Glen Cook can so finely-tune his nuance with just the right descriptor, without ever becoming wordy or pretentious.
I think my heart actually stops!Finally, to the best part of the series: the wonderful characters.
I really enjoyed this classic grimdark series.
First, I really liked the Black Company as a group of people.
And of course, the bickering of One-Eye and Goblin.
I also liked the Croaker as a narrator.
The rest of the characters were great too.
Surprisingly enough, my least favorite character was Raven, despite him being pretty dark, strong, and mysterious.
But compared to Silent, Goblin, One-Eye, or the Captain, he was a little one-dimensional.
(Or much more similar to other characters in other grimdark series.
I also enjoyed the strong female characters (the Lady, Darling, even Whisper).
It is a bit different than other Fantasy books I have read in that it is more or less in journal form as per the Croaker, the company’s physician, historian, also the narrator of the novels.I really like how Glen Cook does not portray the characters as too strong or powerful and grounds the novel in a more human perspective.Also, you have to really think about what you are reading as his style changes a bit as it moves along...
R. Martin readers will enjoy this as he introduces many plots and twists as well as the introduction of a number of warring factions along the way.A great finished series to tide you over until good ol' George R.
R. puts off his next book in the "A Song of Ice and Fire" series.
this book contains the first three volumes of an absolutely amazing fantasy series introduced to me by my friend jesse. the black company books offer bloody-minded and gripping military fiction, with cleverly done concepts of sorcery and its practitioners interwoven. at the time I was reading this I thought, "this might be the best goddamned fantasy I've read since Tolkien." rather, scratch the "since Tolkien" part. since reading this series, I have discovered a couple of other ones in the same league, but not many.
These men, scoundrels, desperadoes, and grim bastards through and through, with nothing else in their lives, yet have a family and a reason to endure in each other.The Company is their moral compass, when all is relative to who is paying for their services.With efficient prose, compelling characters who truly engage and endear themselves to the reader, and a riveting story that is well-crafted, exciting, and very much unable to be put down (I’ve cleared the whole omnibus in less than a fortnight), Chronicles of the Black Company is as close to the perfect Fantasy book I believe I’ll ever come.
