https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252452.The_Glorious_Adventure
Richard Halliburton was quite the character. I've read some of his letters to his parents in the Princeton University Archives regarding his travels to Greece to research this book, and so I have an idea of when his narrative departs from the truth. That it occasionally does, but most of his adventures are firmly grounded in his own ambition and ability to see the 'romance' in every landscape. Halliburton's travels offer a last gasp of the Romantic aspects of the 'age of exploration' —before tourism/globalization turned most charming old world localities into key chain stores.
Charming.
Man, I love Halliburton. No one has or had a vision like him, he can find the magic in everything. This should be a companion piece to The Odyssey or at least get a paper back to read while you travel Greece.
Extremely enjoyable travel memoir from the 1930s. Halliburton was a famous band popular travel writer of the time. This book details his attempts to retrace the travels of Odysseus, even finding the Cyclop's cave. It's full of pleasures and gives off a glorious Mediterranean glow. Halliburton was definitely a gay romantic (in the broadest sense of the term), which makes this not a book for the hard-boiled . . . but it just make the rest of us yearn for our own Odyssey.
Great book to read! I’ve gone back to re-read several chapters to relive the excursions & spontaneous friendships made along the way
travel tales tracing route of Odysseus. very funny and interesting
Inspired by the ultimate traveller Odysseus and a few lines of Tennyson which encapsulate the adventuresome Greeks indomitable spirit, Jazz Age american adventurer Halliburton sets off in the footsteps of Homer's hero, to "Sail beyond the sunset...till I die...To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."He begins, thrillingly, with an ascent to the very top of mount Olympus where his small company of companion Roderic and a plucky eleven year old shepherd boy become amongst the first people to reach the summit where they get caught in -what else!- a thunder and lightning storm.Thereafter he visits Delphi and conjures up some oracular verse through the help of an English poet and an inebriated Roderic; trespasses on the Acropolis after closing time and witnesses the full majesty of the Parthenon in the moonlight; and attempts to run the very same (nineteen, not twenty six mile) inaugural Marathon that Pheidippides ran in 490BC to inform the anxious Athenians that the Persians had been defeated.He just about manages that with the aid of a few breaks, an injection of some vile wine and a taxi-cab taking him over a third of the way.
It is no wonder Ulysses was so disconsolate.
In fact I never heard one laughing at all.
If SHE had been in Calypso's place, Ulysses probably wouldn't have grumbled so much.
But including even Venus, I think goddesses would be a deadly bore after a week or two.
I'd prefer Jimmy any day."Two small things bugged me: Halliburton occasionally hopped between the Greek and Roman names of the gods, and I wish he would've just picked one.
Adventure traveler Richard Halliburton sets out in 1926 with a camera, toothbrush, and eight different translations of Homer's Odyssey, intent on retracing Odysseus' mythic footsteps from fallen Troy to Ithaka.
He approaches travel as a sustained publicity stunt, and casts himself, in some pretty goopy purple prose, as a Rudolph Valentino of the road.
The adventure is riveting ...
Still, Halliburton's enthusiasm, energy, and high spirits make for some entertaining reading.
in fact he's pretty superficial, but in a fun and rollicking sort of way that makes The Glorious Adventure (1927) a quick, fun read.
Halliburton cleverly weaves his quests, quasi-pilgrimage with moments of the Homer's classic and sometimes blends the two into humorous anecdotes.
Loved every page of this book from the summit of Mount Olympus to the Parthenon, the wakes of Hellespont, the swirling vortex of Charybdis, to the summits of Stromboli and Etna, and finally to Ithaca to rescue his beloved Penelope, not to mention countless isles and sirens in between!
Strongly recommend this book to all who love adventure, humor and Homer's classic, not to mention traveling vicariously through Richard Halliburton's gallivanting through the Mediterranean!
Richard Halliburton is certainly one of the most interesting "travel writers" I've had the pleasure of reading.
After sitting board in his living room, he decided to embark on a chapter by chapter journey following Homer's "The Odyssey." His adventures are certainly the madcap variety -- filled with crazy ideas helped along with a bit of alcohol.
He never takes himself too seriously and his writing style is terrific -- he injects enough humor to keep the story light and interesting.
Really wonderful reading -- especially in the first few chapters, where his adventures are particularly hilarious.
A wonderful book!
Everyone needs to read at least one Richard Halliburton book. I love his writing and adventures. Halliburton was an explorer in the 20s and 30s, he died while on one of his travels. He's a mix of Indiana Jones and F. Scott Fitzgereld. Reading his books you get a taste of a time long gone, when the world was not as small as it is now. Every new continent, city, town and mountain held new wonders and only the bravest would explore.
I'm afraid I never finished the book (it had to be returned before we moved). However, what I read I enjoyed. I think I will try it again after I have read The Odyssey. Since Halliburton was following the path of Ulysses, I think I would get more out of it knowing more than just the Cliff's Notes verion of the story.
Příjemné připomenutí Odyssei. Autor nepřestává překvapovat nečekanými nápady a jeho popis italských reálií jsou uchvacující. Jeho líčení osobité a naplněné hyperbolami a vtipem.Kdo nezná Odyseu asi nepochopí, pro příznivce řeckého nedobrovolného cestovatele srdcová záležitost.
I got this book from my great grandma after she passed. When I first picked it up, I didn't think it would interest me, as it wasn't the type of book I normally read, but it really hooked me. The way he describes everything makes me want to go to the places he went to and experience them myself.
By that I mean people who love travel, not people who are lovers while traveling.
This is another great adventure book from Halliburton. This is a raw tale of true unplanned adventure that spans the globe. You can't put it down.
A Another wonderful tale where Richard Halliburton follows the tale of the Odyssey and goes everywhere Ulyssess did--brilliant!
