https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552357.Thieves_World
Shared World anthologies. What a brilliant idea! The concept was that a setting would be provided and some basic rules set down, such as 'no killing another author's character without permission.' And then recruit some top notch writers to come and play.This book still has a nice fat place on my shelf.
I saw this in used bookstore and grabbed it to check out one of his more adult written books.
Surprisingly good, my type of spec/fantasy book, packed with creative miniplots and ideas, not wordily written, sparse and minimalistic and then on to the next creative concept, situation, or character.Also, I wonder if maybe this series was far more influential than I know of.
Seems like it spawned several spin-offs and I even see some heavy character resemblances to GoT.Also, I feel like the used bookstore owner was pretty disappointed that I didn't try to steal this book.
Go grab a book about elves or something."
It's an anthology of fantasy short stories edited by Robert Asprin, who wrote a series of books informally known as the "Myth" books (they were comedies about a demon named Aahz and a sorcerer's apprentice named Skeeve and the books' titles all had puns in them: "Another Fine Myth", "Mything Persons", "Myth-adventures", etc.) - I read a few of the "Myth" books in high school and they were pretty entertaining.
For those who don't know, Thieves' World is a shared world, in which different authors create their own characters and write stories about said characters.
Authors can use each other's characters, but they can't kill them, and I believe that the creator gets some power to either approve or disapprove of the actions that their characters take within the story.
This particular anthology was a good mix of authors that I am familiar with, and authors that I am not.As with all anthologies, I liked some stories more than others.
However, although I was more fond of these stories than the others, all of the stories were quite good.
At a time when squeaky clean heroes were in, this anthology walked in with nothing but ne'er do goods and outright villains, no heroes to be seen, and lots of interesting stories to tell.These stories fight right into the sword and sorcery ethic of the late 70's, drawing from Leiber, Moorcock, and the like.
I'd say that the stories were supposed to be more misogynistic just to be edgy, but having read other 70's sword and sorcery, the misogyny is par for that time period.
Having the women prove equally thieves, conspirators, smugglers, opportunists, and other assorted bas-asses would have been welcome.While I can't call the book a classic, it's easily a good enough collection.
-Idea muy innovadora hace más de treinta años.-Género.
Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta.
En la ciudad de Santuario, emplazamiento fundado por esclavos huidos al sur del Imperio Rankano antes de que anexionase ese territorio a sus posesiones y que durante un tiempo fue floreciente pero ahora va viniendo a menos, se entremezclan las vidas de diferentes personajes.
Novela formada por una serie de relatos interconectados, coordinados por Robert Lynn Asprin para dar a este Fix-Up especial tanto consistencia como continuidad y que incluye trabajos suyos, de John Brunner, Lynn Abbey, Poul Anderson, Andrew Offutt, Joe Haldeman, Christine DeWees y Marion Zimmer Bradley.
Primer libro de la serie El mundo de los ladrones.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
ნორმალურზე უკეთესიამთლად კარგი და გადასარევი არაა, მაგრამ იკითხება ჯიგრულად. თან მოთხრობებია და დიდი რომანით ტვინი არ გებურღება
This is the first shared world anthology I've ever read back in the late 1970's, it may be the first ever published, lots followed like Wild Cards and Merovingen Nights two of my favorites.
Merchants, artisans, porters, servants, slaves, wives, nomads, courtesans, entertainers, beggars, thieves, gamblers, magicians, acolytes, soldiers, and who knew what else mingled, chattered, chaffered, quarrelled, plotted, sang, played games, drank, ate, and who knew what else.
Horsemen, camel-drivers, waggoners pushed through, raising waves of curses.
Smells thickened the air, of flesh, sweat, roast meat and nuts, aromatic drinks, leather, wool, dung, smoke, oils, cheap perfume.
I'll admit that Thieves' World is less sophisticated than the Wild Cards series or the Ring of Fire books, but it's still good storytelling.
I enjoyed Brunner's tale of magic and revenge (Sentences of Death), and, of course the first tales centering on Hanse/Shadowspawn (Shadowspawn) and Jubal (The Price of Doing Business).
Poul Anderson's Gate of the Flying Knives was OK, but if felt a little "old school sword and sorcery" where there is heroism, magic and swordplay, but ultimately the crisis is resolved through the use of a scientific (in this case geometry) principle.
I give Thieves' World a 3.5.
They can use each other's characters, touch on the same events from different perspectives, whatever.This first volume does a good job setting up that concept and delivering a solid collection of stories.
The through-line, of the new royal governor's arrival and its ripples in the city, is tenuous at best.Marion Zimmer Bradley's concluding story of the character Lythande is a particular standout.A good, solid, fun fantasy book with some rough edges for atmosphere, but without the dark seriousness that can weigh down more contemporary fantasy stories.
Maybe the fifth star is from nostalgia.
I can admit that.
Just like I admit I made sure I got the edition marked with the cover I still remember so well.Sanctuary.
This thing has been dreamt of forever.
Cynosure and Tanelorn are two other names for it, as well.
A great concept.
One writer builds a world.
Others inhabit it.
Their characters dance together briefly.
They mingle, the powers that inhabit this shadowy city.
I like it.
Read the damn book!
But the characters are awesome.
You expect to find Fafhred and maybe Brust's characters in the alleys here.Yeah, go read this.
It's dark, it's stunning, it's twisted in ways that mere humans can't understand.
It's Thieve's World.
These books are my favorite fantasy series of all time.
I've read each book so many times, I can't remember the number.Robert Lynn Aspirin spearheaded this series, miraculously linking the stories, each by a different sci-fi/ fantasy author, into a coherent whole.
Each character is woven into the fabric of Sanctuary.
The anus of the Ranken Empire, Sanctuary is home to thieves, murderers, vivisectionists, drunken guards, naive princes, wizards, witches and creatures so evil, there's no place dark enough to hide.Enter Sanctuary, but beware!
This was the first "Shared World" series, at least as far as I know, and it is still the best in my opinion. I thought the idea was great, to get a lot of good writers telling stories in the same basic universe, the same city even, and be able to use other people's characters and settings. It worked for me.
Imagine a shared world where great authors play in the same streets telling overlapping stories about characters who run into one another, and know each other's deeds. Such is Thieves' world, and I'm glad I know it exists now!
Read previously in '93 or '94. Time for a re-read!---------------Much better than I had remembered! I wish authors would undertake a similar effort today.
I loved this series as a young teen, really loved them, although even then the earlier ones weren't my favourite -- so I am finally going back through them and reading (or in this case mostly skimming) the stories, and writing down what I think of them, and then I can decide what to do with the actual physical books.
So -- a bunch of stories, all of them grimdark before that was a term, lots and lots of violence (especially sexual violence), hardly any sympathetic characters, and that over-the-top sword & sorcery style in which the gods show up to cause chaos and there are only six important people in the entire city, all of whom everyone unimportant knows.
The story collection is centered on gritty thieves, magicians and the assorted dregs of a fantasy city riddled with crime.
The world is a fairly conventional fantasy setting and it is often inconsistent, although it is rightly pointed out that this does not matter.The stories vary widely in quality as you might expect.
By far the best is the story by John Brunner.
Nothing here is truly terrible and some of it is quite good, but one gets the feeling that the authors are not that invested in the stories other than Brunner's which is very good.
Any 'shared world' collection is bound to be a bit uneven.
"Thieves' World," the grandfather of all such fantasy anthologies, is no exception.
Some also seem as if they were hurried a bit and could have seen more editing.Decent story lines, though, and they mesh well enough with each other, despite the different authors — authors who are sort of writing fan fiction with each other's characters.
Maybe that adds something to the world building, to the depth of the characters and settings.
Still, it is mostly fairly routine sword and sorcery style fantasy, entertaining enough to recommend as a fun read but not much more.
Overall I enjoyed this anthology. Some stories were better than others (imho), but since they were all short stories, the less-good ones were fast to complete and then continue on to the good ones. I especially liked how the main character from one short story would appear in the background of another (and vice versa). (Side note: This did make it a *little* difficult to keep track of who's who, since there's a fairly large cast of characters and not all characters show up in each short story, but I don't view that as a bad problem to have.)
The first book of one of my favorite anthologies of all time.Some real winners and losers here, but I'll review just this specific book (not the whole series)Lynn Abbey, Robert Lynn Asprin, and Christine deWees really brought an 'A' game. Marion Zimmer Bradley and Poul Anderson completely phoned it in.The characters, themes, and atmosphere of this series/anthology is top-notch, and there's a lot more hits than misses. This first book is not vital to the appreciation of the series, but it sure helps!
This is the first collection of a set of short stories based on a world built by Robert Aspirin. There were a couple good stories in it, but they didn't appear until the last half of the book, and the stories in the beginning were not very gripping to me. I have the next five collections already (they were a buck a piece at the used book store) so I imagine I'll try them again, but not an auspicious start to a new universe.
Revisiting my youth with a reread of this book. The world the authors create together is incredible, but some of the short stories are only so-so, with others being outstanding. The so-so ones suffer a bit from being out of time, feeling a little dated. Reading it, you can see why it was considered ground-breaking material, and the stories that work are excellent. I’ll be moving on to the Tales of The Vulgar Unicorn.
I got the first four books from a local sale and picked them up after reading the description and seeing they were published by ACE. They earlier stories were slower but the further i got the harder it was to stop reading this book. The stories were well intertwined and i enjoyed the very unique characters. I’ve always liked rouge type characters and this book had more than enough. Very satisfying read.
Love to hate Sanctuary! The stories written by Asprin and Bradley were riveting!! Not all of the other writers kept my interest. A very intriguing cast of characters emerged from this enterprise, so I may have to find more of this series.
Možno skôr 3,5...ale veľmi sa mi páčil tento nápad - jeden vymyslený svet a rôzni autori...som zvedavá na ďalšie príbehy :)
Second time reading series. Enjoyed it as much as the first
A decent little fantasy anthology, the stories started out a little slow, but got better as the book progressed.
Dropped on 50%.Pricu tesko pratim i nije ostavila nikakav utisak na mene. Ne zelim da citam nesto sto mi nije zanimljivo.
An interesting concept, stories by different authors using the same characters and town. An older book, but I like the older stories at times.
Dobra antologija,šteta što još nisu preveli više knjiga.
