https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666634.Supernatural_Horror_in_Literature
Esta fantástica y exhaustiva edición, nos llega de la mano de Valdemar, e incluye el famoso ensayo del Maestro de Providence, sus relatos de terror preferidos, textos sobre narrativa fantástica (algunos inéditos en castellano), algunos apuntes autobiográficos y una completísima bibliografía y notas a cargo de Juan Antonio Molina Foix.‘El horror sobrenatural en la literatura’ está considerada por muchos como la mejor disertación sobre la ficción sobrenatural que se ha escrito.
'The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.'  Supernatural Horror in Literature is Lovecraft's take on horror fiction. It is a pretty long essay consisting of ten chapters, each focusing on different things. And it is really good. The chapters are self-explanatory:Introduction The Dawn of the Horror-Tale The Early Gothic NovelThe Apex of Gothic RomanceThe Aftermath of Gothic FictionSpectral Literature on the ContinentEd
It's interesting to see (in more places than one) that he honestly hated when authors explain everything in the end ('One great thing may be said of the author; that he never ruined his ghostly visions with a natural explanation' is just one of the examples).Lovecraft lovers would find the following quote on Walpole amusing: 'Walpole in 1764 published The Castle of Otranto; a tale of the supernatural which, though thoroughly unconvincing and mediocre in itself, was destined to exert an almost unparalleled influence on the literature of the weird.' As far as I'm concerned, I am aware of the flaws but he is still one of my favourite authors.
Really, an editor should go through the text, collect all the stories and authors Lovecraft mentions, and then make them into a shot story collection, with this essay as an introduction--hard to think of a more effective primer to the genre than that.Unfortunately, I wish that Lovecraft had gone into greater depth about the style and methods of horror writers, particularly when he was going through all the example authors.
(He also uses italics for titles both of books and short stories, apparently not being aware of the convention of using normal type and quotation marks for the latter; and he doesn't seem to be aware of the broader periodizations and historical context of Western literature as a whole as a frame for his treatment.) Generally, his meaning is clear, but in the cases where I've read the same works that he has, I don't always agree with his critical judgements, which tend to reflect his own personal preferences.
Unlike his own creative works, however, this critical piece, though knowledgeable and useful, is neither original nor essential.He writes justly of the gothic and early romantic traditions, and the three modern masters Arthur Machen, M.
Poe, on the other hand, perceived the essential impersonality of the real artist; and knew that the function of creative fiction is merely to express and interpret events and sensations as they are, regardless of how they tend or what they prove—good or evil, attractive or repulsive, stimulating or depressing—with the author always acting as a vivid and detached chronicler rather than as a teacher, sympathiser, or vendor of opinion.
Every time I reread "Supernatural Horror in Literature," I find something new to appreciate. This is an invaluable resource, both for what it tell us of the development of the Gothic, weird fiction, and horror (and, for that matter, science fiction and fantasy) -- Lovecraft is a well informed and insightful critic who grasps context as well as content -- and also for what it tells us of Lovecraft's influences and inspirations. Anyone interested in imaginative literature should consider this a "must read" work.
Dagegen würde ich nach Lovecrafts Definition aber Kafkas Verwandlung zum Horror zählen müssen.Was mich häufiger beim Lesen verärgerte waren ethnische Zuschreibungen wie: Im Abendland, wo der zum Mystischen tendierende Teutone aus seinen schwarzen nördlichen Wäldern nach Süden gekommen war und der Kelte sich an seltsame Opferhandlungen in Druidenhainen erinnerte, nahmen sie eine furchtbare Intensität und eine überzeugende Ernsthaftigkeit der Atmosphäre an, die die Wirkung ihre halb ausgesprochenen, halb angedeuteten Schrecken verdoppeln.Dem irischen Schriftsteller Charles Robert Maturin schreibt er „ererbten keltischen Mystizismus“ zu und später setzt er noch einen drauf: Der semitische Geist scheint, ebenso wie der keltische und der teutonische, eine ausgeprägte Neigung zum Mystischen zu besitzen, und der Reichtum an geheimem Wissen um schauerliche Dinge, die sich im Ghetto und Synagogen erhalten hat, muß viel beträchtlicher sein, als man sich gemeinhin vorstellt.Man darf bei solchen Äußerungen nicht vergessen, dass sie 1927 niedergeschrieben wurde.

Leer a Lovecraft es siempre una experiencia estimulante, ya sea en su faceta de escritor de ficción o ensayista. En El horror sobrenatural en la literatura demuestra sus conocimientos sobre un género del que es uno de sus mayores referentes y aporta su opinión autorizada de algunas de las mejores obras de terror de la Historia. Una pequeña joya de lectura (y consulta) imprescindible. Reseña completa: http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/h-p-...
Read this rad, free, typoriffic eBook accessible through goodreads, which led to downloading a dozen ePub files for books listed available via the Gutenberg Project.
Not sure how many I'll actually read but, like Bolano's Between Parentheses, this explodes your to-read queue (out of respect for others' update streams, I only added one book I couldn't find at the Gutenberg Project site).
Fear drives "weird" stories, which are weird (not like bizarro) if they suggest a sort of mystical dread.
That might be the coolest thing, actually...through this book, I've discovered all sorts of other authors I wouldn't have known about.If you're a Lovecraft fan, you also will enjoy this because it gives additional insight into how the author thought about his craft.
It's impossible not to read the later chapters and realize how strong some of Lovecraft's influences were.The Bad: At its worst, this book is just Lovecraft listing book after book, extolling the virtues or limitations of each.
It gets slow at times.Also, Lovecraft appears convinced that the best writings of dark fiction are those writings who happen to look and think just like H.P. Lovecraft.
Споменатите вътре книги са с внимателно и безстрастно показани силни и слаби страни в търсенето на необяснимия космически ужас.Стилът на писане е непретенциозен, но показва висока ерудиция по въпроса (не че някой се е съмнявал).Тоя човек е изчел всичко, ВСИЧКО по темата.Страшно много ми хареса и ми предостави информация за купища автори и книги, които трябва задължително да погледна.Друго любопитно нещо беше, че срещнах двама трима автори, рекламирани като големи вдъхновители на Лъвкрафт, а той им е отделил само по 2-3 изречения.
За сметка на това е нахвалил имена, които не са се появявали никога в България.
Una grandissima risorsa per lettori e scrittori. Inutile dire che ho aggiunto nuovi titoli in wishlist e che ho segnato un sacco di cose.
Nela, o autor deixa claro o que para ele configura como sendo o mais importante elemento de uma história de horror: o medo do desconhecido.
Nesses capítulos, Lovecraft discorre sobre o início da Literatura de Horror até autores que eram seus contemporâneos, destacando que obras e autores ele acreditava serem importantes.
Para aqueles que estudam o próprio Lovecraft, sua opinião sobre os outros autores e suas obras acaba se tornando uma interessante forma de avaliar que critérios utiliza e que e referências ele tem em suas próprias produções.
Certamente recomendo a leitura, mas lembro que é um livro que serve mais como ponto de partida que destino final para leituras do gênero.
Aunque esperaba una serie de ensayos enfocados en la técnica y la crítica del relato fantástico y de terror desde el punto de vista de uno de los grandes del género, resulta que este libro no es nada de eso. A decir verdad, podría considerarse como una recopilación de los grandes autores y obras del género comentados por Lovecraft, incluyendo spoilers, todo hay que decirlo. A pesar de todo, resulta una lectura muy interesante y, a la vez amena, muy especialmente por la pasión con la que escribe el autor americano.
3.5
This is an amazing essay on weird fiction, the only problem with it is that it spoilers lots of books big time. That is extremely annoying and prevented me from giving it 5 stars. It would be a great introduction to weird fiction if not for this. However, this reason alone makes me advice against reading it if you haven't already read a lot of weird literaure.
Even in cases where I’m not as enthused as HPL was, (eg: Lord Dunsany), I’m interested to see the influences on my favorite writer of weird fiction.
For others with as much interest in him as I have, this book is a must-read.For the rest of you, and I think this would even include those of you who hate Lovecraft, you may still find this book interesting.
Those who don’t enjoy HPL’s prose style may actually find his non-fiction more palatable, and as a reviewer he has considerable respect for reader and writer, and any goodreads reviewer could pick up a pointer or two from this slender booklet.
The greatest survey of horror and supernatural literature ever, only marred by the author's tragic mortality.
Lovecraft was a sensitive soul and true fan of The Weird and this essay appropriately dismisses the works of great writers because they are not The Weird.
I think this is my third time through this essay (which is also a great reading list of the serious student of horror) and the love of this particular (admitted) niche has never stood out so clearly.
A must read for fans of the art.
This started as a historical essay on weird fiction that was published in 1927 in a magazine called The Recluse. The edition I was able to find is a 1973 reprint of a 1945 reprint. Interesting that no one since has taken on the task of writing about writers, and that Lovecraft's thoughts have stood the test of time.I've pulled some names out of this edition. Perhaps I can even find some of the novels mentioned and thereby see into the past in order to more understand supernatural horror today...
This should perhaps be more aptly titled "The History of Supernatural Horror in Literature." Lovecraft does an excellent job of listing works that contain cosmically horrific elements and themes – and that's it. If you're looking for a Grand Unifying Theory of supernatural horror, this isn't the place to find it. It's more genre-definition-by-name-dropping than critical combination of theoretical ideas. Nonetheless, it's an interesting and useful resource. I don't know that I'll ever read it all the way through again, but it will definitely be useful as a reference.
Probably the only downside: SO comprehensive, I have no idea if I'll ever be able to read all the tales suggested. Highly recommended for anyone reading or writing in the horror genre. And highly readable, also.
Lovecraft not only wrote very fine horror fiction in his own right, he was a student of the genre and this is an excellent introduction to the topic of supernatural literature, although, of course, it does not deal with later works.
Lovecraft is no doubt the king of the early 20th-century horror genre.
Lovecraft was terribly influential for Stephen King, who in many ways exceeds Lovecraft in popular appeal and breadth of possibilities for the genre.With these strengths in hand, and despite these disadvantages, H.P. Lovecraft provides the reader with an engaging long essay/short book in Supernatural Horror in Literature.
In particular, this essay shows that Lovecraft was remarkably well read, providing a reading list in his analysis of the genre that would delight and disturb readers for a decade.
This is a short book, but worth the read if you're a HP Lovecraft or horror fan.Supernatural Horror in Literature is HP Lovecraft's essay on...well, supernatural horror in literature.
I'm also jealous from all the works of weird and horror fiction he name-drops that he must have read to research this essay.
Go read some of his short stories first and form an actual opinion on his work.One of the most amusing things about this essay, besides gaining about a down more titles to my TBR list, is that Lovecraft rates cosmic horror as the highest form of horror.

Essentially a long essay on what he likes and suggestions for how to go about it. Interesting if you're an aspiring writer or looking for reading suggestions, provided you can find any of it.
Well written overview of the past centuries of mystical and supernatural writings. The older version of King's Danse Macabre, and shorter as well. Definitely arose curiosity of a few other authors I hope to read from in the future.
Great essay from HPL. You can find almost all of his writing influences mentioned in here . . . then add in the house library he had access to from the time he was a small child . . . especially the sciences . . . voila!
A very informative and thorough exploration through the greats works of the genre, by one of the masters of the genre. I particularly like that Lovecraft drew particular attention to Bierce's The Spook House and Kipling's The Recrudescence of Imray, as I found those to be the scariest of their respected authors also. I also wonder, if he were still around, what Lovecraft would have to say about Stephen King.
