https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386210.Just_Me_and_My_Mom
This is another great young kids series.
The books are for kids a bit younger than the Berenstain Bear series, but still fantastic to read to or have as your first books that your kids read to you.
Each book in the Little Critter series generally has some moral to the story, even if you have to look a little bit to find it.
If you get a chance, check out this book and the series as a whole; I highly recommend them.
This is such a cute, loving book.
He just wants to show his mom all these cool things but, the people in charge of the places they go are not thrilled.
They go to a museum, an aquarium, an art museum, and a fancy restaurant but, things don't go so well at each one.
All is good in the end though, he still had a lot of fun with his mom.
I think this book would be especially good to young readers.
I loved this book, and the illustrations make it that much better!
This is cute story about a kids day spent entirely with his mom. They do all sorts of things together that kids in my classroom might be able to relate to if they have done them as well. It also has good illustrations that really put the story into perspective.
Grade/interest level: PreK-2ndReading level: 460LGenre: Comedy, picture bookMain characters: Little Critter and his momSetting: the bus, the city, a department storePOV: Little Critter'sSummary:The Little Critter series focusses on a young boy who goes on all kinds of typical adventures that young children can relate to.
In this book, Little Critter spends the day with his mom.
While in the city Little Critter gets in to all kinds of trouble.
The book ends with Little Critter and his mom heading home happily.
The pictures are funny and hearing Little Critter's point of view makes the books very relatable to young children.
These were a childhood favorite. Little Critter's highly relatable innocence shines through in every book. This time, he and his mother embark on a special day together visiting a museums, an aquarium, and a lunch out. Favorite line, "Then we went to the art museum but it was full of weird pictures and I was tired." C'est vrai Little Critter! (What kind of animal is he anyway?)
Another favorite from the Little Critter books, though I didn't like how Little Critter touched things in the museum he wasn't supposed to. I think I'm too hard on these books sometimes, but maybe it's just the adult in me.
This book will always remind of my mother - and she still makes it a point to remind me of when she used to read it to me as a child. I still have the same copy tucked away in a box somewhere. I suppose it's become an heirloom!
Lost a star for the “Indian” exhibit page. Smh.
Good CHRIST, it's stressful to do literally anything with children
My daughters learned to read on the Mercer Mayer books. I loved every minute of it. Especially the spider.
This book could be used as a mirror for young children. They might realize just how much their parents do for them. It shows how strong the love is for one's child even when they make mistakes.
Little Critter goes into the city with his mom and wreaks havoc at a museum, although not understanding it. Look for his little froggy on each page.
I LOVE the Little Critter books. They were my childhood. I enjoyed reading about Little Critter's mischief and shenanigans. This was a fun book I read.
I love this book, it was always a good reminder to me of what it was like shopping with my mom.
Little Critter spends the day in the city with Mom. Very cute. Perfect for Mother’s Day!
These books are cute, though this one gets three stars for the illustration details that tell much more than the story. The mom's expressions are classic.
A mother and son spend the entire day together on the town. It's a very colorful book with funny pictures.
This short story was a nice way to talk about the child and their mother and how they spent their time together. It shows the importance of family.
Good afternoon I'm sunny.Today I read a story called Just Me and My Mom by Mercer mayer.This is a fiction book about animal.Little critter and his mother go to the city.I give a rating of 4 star out of 5. The book was very good.
As always, I love Mercer Mayer books. It introduces a lot of new places for a child to explore in the big city. Some places they may have been and it would open up great discussions. The illustrations and story are easy to follow.
In “Just Me and My Mom” the little critter goes on a train ride with his mom for the day.
He experiences all kinds of new things including visiting a museum, a hot dog stand, and an aquarium.
The critter goes all over town learning all sorts of social norms with his mom while traveling through the city.
This was a great learning experience for little critter.It’s a great story of bonding with your mom while going on a great adventure!
I really liked this book because I remember loving the days that my mom took the time to do something with just me, just make memories.
This story goes into detail of the activities the pair do, the areas they visit, and the encounters they have with issues every normal child experiences with their mother.
And the quality of this story is relevant and relatable to children of all cultural backgrounds.
I chose this story to be a form of equal representation that all families have bonds that are so strong and everlasting that no mistake can break that connection.
Also, in relation to my text set’s theme, an immigrant family can depend on parents, aunts/unclue, or other forms or household leaders to guide the children to make better decisions.
This story was about an all-day outing with a boy and his mom.
At the end of the day she still loved him, and they had a peaceful, accident-free ride home.In the classroom, this book could be utilized to discuss single-parenting, and single-parent households.
It could teach the students that living with only one parent is not a bad thing; it is just different from what everyone thinks is normal, and it is just as normal as living with two parents, or with grandparents.
I would have the students write about all of the things them and their guardian would do on an all-day outing.
Critter is such a troublesome child.
Although the story line is skued the whole story is told like if a child was explaining their day to somebody who wasn’t there: all the exciting parts.The story is cute.The Little Critters series is always a family favorite next to The Bernstein Bears.
The pages are filled with colors and pictures depicting the actual story line.
A great book for one-on-one story-time where a child could interact with what’s going on.
Pages had been torn but fortunately the story was still intact.
This book doesn't work well for a read-aloud.
Or at any rate, it didn't work well for my three-year-old.
The pictures sort of finish the story for the text, but my three-year-old is still pretty literal (as most kids his age are) and so he needed/wanted me to describe what was happening in each picture to finish the text of the story.
I think he's probably just a bit too young for these Little Critter books.
I'm thinking I'll reintroduce them around the time he starts independent reading.ETA June 2016: Well, I didn't have to wait as long for my son to understand this as I thought I would.
The text is written in such a way that the reader is hearing the story form the “little critter’s” point of view, but seeing the story as it really is from the illustrations.
Therefore, the pictures enhance the text.
This book is most suited to young children about age three to six.
The pictures are detailed and colorful and fill both sides of the page to the very edge.
The reader could certainly read this book by the pictures alone.
I would use this book as an easy reader for those who are just learning to read or who cannot read.
I like this book a lot, but it isn't my favorite Mercer Mayer book.
Although this book is like all the other books in the way that little critter gets into trouble every where he goes it is not as funny to me as the other books.
My favorite part is when he brings his frog into the 5 star restaurant so they get kicked out and have to eat hot dogs.
Little Critter is excited about this but his poor mom does not look thrilled in the picture.
I LOVE Mercer Mayor books.
They love finding the hidden frog or cricket on each page and the stories are always fun.
This book is as the title suggests.
Little critter goes on a train ride with his mom and they go on a fun little adventure, just the two of them.
We got this book today at my daughter's doctor visit for her 18 month check up.
Brought back some fun memories.
My 3 year old loved finding the hidden frog on each page and it soon became a contest to see who can find it first.
Lovely book!
This book also has an old, probably outdated, disc that included games and a walk through of the book.
I loved the interactive game with my book.
The game would read the text and then you could click on the characters and they would do or say something.
It was a lot of fun and helped to spark my interest in reading.
All the Little Critter books have wonderful adventures.
This book is about Little Critter's day with his mom when they go to the city.
Always made me want to go out and do stuff, like in the book, with my mom right away.
I have always enjoyed the Little Critter books. When I read this story it took me back to my childhood. I love the illustrations and the short and easy read of the story. I think these are excellent books to have in a classroom library. I think that elementary students enjoy reading them as well. There are so many in the series that you could easily relate to an activity or just read when you have some spare time in between transitioning or at the end of that day just to let students enjoy hearing a story read out loud.
