https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51606.Johnny_Got_His_Gun
I think I finished it in five sittings, with great big tears rolling down my face.
Johnny Got His Gun sounds like it was written during the early stages of the Vietnam War (I think because the tone is very Salinger-esque), but it's actually set during WW I.
This is a great book to read when you're facing a dark time in your life.
I don't think life could be any worse than this protagonist's, who has lost his arms and legs, in addition to sustaining serious burns to his face as results of injuries he incurred on the battlefield.For some reason, I group this book with 
A scathing anti-war novel, in which the main character is one of the profoundly, hopelessly wounded, the human wrecks of war. It is told in the first person, by the voice of a person now voiceless, trapped in his mutilated body, confined to his hospital bed, and--as this person virtually unable to communicate communicates with the reader, telling us his story--we come to realize the true cost--and futility--of war.This is an angry, honest book. Thoroughly memorable.
Johnny Got His Gun, Dalton Trumbo (1905 - 1976)Johnny Got His Gun is a novel written in 1938 by American novelist and screenwriter Dalton Trumbo and published September 1939 by J.
...عنوانها: تفنگت را زمین بگذار؛ جانی تفنگش را برداشت؛ نویسنده: دالتون ترامبو؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه آگوست سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: تفنگت را زمین بگذار؛ نوشته: دالتون ترامبو؛ ترجمه: شاهپور سخی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر تیسا، 1392، در 241 ص، شابک: 9786006662169؛ ، داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی - سده 20 مرمان «تفنگت را زمین بگذار»، کتابی سرشار از رخدادهای تلخ، و دردناک است.
This novel about an American soldier who was severely wounded while fighting in World War I was so disturbing it took me several tries to get through it.The novel is told in a stream of consciousness, with soldier Joe drifting in and out of memories of his parents, of girlfriends, of more innocent days.
I think the audiobook performance made it easier to read and appreciate Johnny Got His Gun. If you've tried to read this book before and struggled with the run-on sentences, I recommend trying the audio.
Because it wasn't your fight Joe. You never really knew what the fight was all about.""There's nothing noble about dying.
The difference is, I buy Charlie's speech because he's knee deep in satire and it's not as jarring when he steps out of that satire.
Maybe this is unfair, but Trumbo's effort is affected and, dare I say, as unnatural as the devices that conspire to keep his protagonist's body alive while neglecting his mind.
Maybe Trumbo believes he has captured the reader to the extent that he can preach to him/her.
I guess most people coming to the novel are looking to be preached at.
Besides, Bonham is eventually able to communicate with hospital staff through Morse Code.
Every time I read a book, I feel committed to it as if to a relationship.
Even if this never changes the fact that I don’t vote...this absolutely got me to give a damn and know why I hate war.I would have made my students read this when I was teaching - if I had known about it.If you don't read anything this year - read this.This book is like my first love.
It will be the year 2058, and I will see a young girl reading this on a airplane and be launched into delicious nostalgia.
I read this several years ago and I remember enjoying it. It was dark and frustrating - what would you do if trapped in your own body?Also addresses the brutality of war as one on the outside might not understand.What I thought of the most while reading it was the footage from the movie version that was used in the Metallica video for "One"
I simply have to read this book. It, including its author, has been cussed by Ann Coulter on her latest blog post. That is recommendation enough for me!
16 χρονών και αποφάσισα να πάω μία βόλτα από την βιβλιοθήκη του σχολείου καθότι εκείνη την περίοδο είχε αρχίσει να αναπτύσσεται η πραγματική σχέση μου με αυτά.
Το μάτι μου έπεσε σε αυτό το βιβλίο για το οποίο είχα παντελή άγνοια σε μία έκδοση που δεν νομίζω καν να είχε περίληψη .
Αυτό το κουφάρι υπήρξε στο μυαλό μου για πολύ καιρό και ήξερα ότι κανένας λόγος δεν θα ήταν ποτέ αρκετός για να με πείσει ότι ο οποιοσδήποτε πόλεμος σε αυτόν τον κόσμο έχει το ελάχιστο νόημα.
Γιατί είχα διαβάσει αυτό το βιβλίο και δεν θα μπορούσε κανείς πια να με ξεγελάσει.
Unforgettable: one of the most original, clever and powerful novels I’ve ever readJohnny Got His Gun was first published on 3 September 1939, two days after Germany invaded Poland, and is about a 20-year-old American infantryman Joe Bonham who suffers a direct hit from a German shell in the last days of the Great War. Unsurprisingly, its powerful anti-war message also had a profound effect on Americans during the Vietnam era.Dalton Trumbo conveys this anti-war message across 20 short chapters, each explores a different aspect of Joe’s life before the war, or his thoughts on his current predicament.
There are such beautiful passages in the book when Johnny remembers his ordinary but so precious life in Colorado with his family and his friends or girl and in those parts, Trumbo becomes almost Proustian in his attention to detail.
Every memory is so vividly recounted that you begin to think of your own ordinary memories and travel down your own life and then that's where Trumbo gets you.You finish this bleak and sorrowful book with an immense gratitude.
What a kick in the guts! As many have already pointed out, this should be a required reading for all those who sit in their nice sunny offices and send other people's kids to war... I've discovered Trumbo very late, but fortunately not too late.
Ενα βιβλιο πραγματική γροθιά στο στομάχι!Ενας Αμερικανος στρατιώτης του Α' παγκοσμιου πολέμου μένει χωρις άκρα, φωνή, ακοή, όραση και όσφρηση.
Οι γιατροί τον κρατούν ζωντανό σε ένα δωματιο ενώ αυτός αναπολεί στιγμές της ζωής του.Ενας εξαιρετικός συγγραφεας, ο Ντάλτον Τράμπο, γραφει ένα βαθιά ανθρώπινο, αντιπολεμικό, υπαρξιακό μυθιστορημα.
Συγκλονιστικό, θα μου μείνει αξέχαστο.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WM8bT...Now the world is gone, I’m just oneOh God, help me Hold my breath as I wish for deathOh please, God, help meDarknessImprisoning meAll that I seeAbsolute horrorI cannot liveI cannot dieTrapped in myselfBody my holding cellLandmineHas taken my sightTaken my speechTaken my hearingTaken my armsTaken my legsTaken my soulLeft me with life in hell
Johnny rips its own heart out and throws it in your face. It's a nightmare. A freak show. It's claustrophobic and uncomfortable. It's so fucking necessary.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WM8bTd...
It was a narrative that yearned to be heard.1918 was not a good year in America to be a healthy male between the ages of 18 and 26.
America was in the throes of the Great War. To meet the costly demand, bodies were desperately needed.
Once whole, now reduced to a mere slab of meat.
Thinking...We sing praises to those lives lost in war yet we seem to forget through many generations the countless victims who return not whole.
Those sad reminders can't be swept under the carpet.To those returning from war, they find that their home, their Shale City is not the same.
It really is possible, in the end, to hold two thoughts in your mind, at the same time, with equal intensity, and not become completely mad: that is the the anguish of war.
Both Trumbo and Barry achieve this complicated equilibrium and never let up.Trumbo's anguish is more punchy and didactic, much like the assured rhythm of a machine gun, delivering bursts of energy and fatal information all in one.
Εντάξει, τι να πω γι' αυτό το βιβλίο; Παρά τις δεκαετίες που έχουν περάσει από τότε που το διάβασα, παραμένει ένα από τα σημαντικότερα πράγματα που έχω διαβάσει. Μιλάμε για μετεωρίτη.  Έχετε φανταστεί πώς θα ήταν να ζούσατε παγιδευμένοι μέσα στο κεφάλι σας, και μόνο εκεί, όπου η κάθε σκέψη, συναίσθημα, ανάμνηση, φόβος, η κάθε λαχτάρα και η κάθε στιγμή να κρατούν μία αιωνιότητα, χωρίς να έρχεται κανείς να σας σώσει, να σας ξυπνήσει από τον εφιάλτη; (Πω πω, και μόνο που θυμάμαι το βιβλίο για να γράψω αυτές τις γραμμές, με πιάνει σύγκρυο και πλάκωμα στο στήθος).
Il tono drammatico, lo stile poetico, la prosa che, con le ripetizioni studiate e la non casuale assenza di punteggiatura risulta compatta ed incisiva, insieme alla tragica storia narrata e al messaggio universale che racchiude, rendono questo libro IL Libro, quello che non bisognerebbe impazzire per cercare, quello che dovrebbe essere ovunque e alla portata di tutti per far capire quanto l’odio non conduca da nessuna parte, quanto la violenza della guerra sia inutile e quanto la sua ipocrisia sia una delle truffe più grosse al mondo, e quanto il valore della vita sia il bene supremo concesso su questa terra, bene che nessuna ideologia malata si può permettere di portar via.
Great novel, with a message I completely agree with. WAR IS BAD. It did get just a little tedious at times and I didn't think the flashbacks and digressions added anything. Otherwise it was all good. Apart from the war. War is bad.
«Αγόρι μου, πάρε το όπλο σου και φάε αυτούς τους μπάσταρδους» Όλα κρύβονται μέσα σε αυτήν την φράση, φίλε μου.
Και σήμερα φοράς τον ρόλο που πρέπει να πολεμήσεις για την πατρίδα, να σκοτώσεις τον εχθρό της πατρίδας – κι ας μην τον γνωρίζεις.
Προστάτευσέ μας, δώσε μέλλον για την πατρίδα και τα παιδιά, γίνε ο ήρωας της μάνας πατρίδας, του έθνους που κουβαλά τόση ιστορία και αξίες που πρέπει να παραμείνουν καθαρές από ξένους.
«Αγόρι μου, πάρε το όπλο σου και φάε αυτούς τους μπάσταρδους» σου θυμίζει μια φωνή και ξέρεις πως κάποιος από τους δυο σας θα είναι σύντομα νεκρός.
Johnny Got His Gun. The paradox of fighting for liberty:how free can a dead man be? I'm writing this review after reading the book for the second time (I read it in high school [10 years ago, OMG]) and totally confirmed that this is a great piece of fiction, absolutely worth reading.Before my second reading, a lot of details were blurred, and I barely remembered important fragments. I was only sure that I really liked this novel and that, certainly, its a book different from the fiction I use to
Trumbo uses flashbacks to tell the tale of a young man who is fighting in a 'war for democracy'.
These flashbacks are more than just an ordinary literary device: Trumbo is not only trying to tell a story, he is making a statement: he wants to make clear that each soldier, each young man fighting in war is a human being, someone who loves, who struggles, who has dreams, a loved son, a hard worker: a person.
Trumbo tells more than a war story, he takes advantage of Johnny's thoughts and memories to state his anti-war and pacifist agenda.To read this novel, considering it merely as an entertaining piece of fiction is a waste of Trumbo's talent and ingenuity.
Author Dalton Trumbo was inspired by a newspaper story about a Canadian soldier in World War I who had lost all his limbs and all his senses except for the sense of touch.
The story takes us inside Joe's head to his stream of consciousness thoughts, sometimes thinking about ideologies and often flashing back to the past.
The title is based on the refrain, "Johnny Get Your Gun", from the American World War I song "Over There".The author's life is as interesting as the book, and has recently been made into the movie, "Trumbo", starring Bryan Cranston.
“But it wasn't a dream” (Trumbo 63).Since it's publication during World War II, through various wars and political movements, Johnny Got His Gun has been a book in the spotlight.
This is not to say there wasn't dissenters and pacifists prior to World War I, but it is saying that they were being silenced and that the general public didn't want to listen to them.
“When armies move and flags wave and slogans pop up watch out little guy because it's somebody else's chestnuts in the fire, not yours” (114).Over time, Johnny Got His Gun has become the book most synonymous with the anti-war sentiment around the world.
Now that the war is through with meI'm waking up, I cannot seeThat there is not much left of meNothing is real but pain nowHold my breath as I wish for deathOh please, God, wake me--DarknessImprisoning meAll that I seeAbsolute horrorI cannot liveI cannot dieTrapped in myselfBody my holding cellLandmineHas taken my sightTaken my speechTaken my hearingTaken my armsTaken my legsTaken my soulLeft me with life in hell The famous lyrics from Metallica's "One" from the perspective of Joe Bonham, wound
I can't love that only a few years after this book was written and published, World War II happened.
The one thing I can love is Dalton Trumbo's phenomenal writing throughout this entire novel and his ability to make you feel 
Personally, I loved the writing style and I don't think this novel would have had the same impact if it was written any other way.
That chapter is the most powerful part of any book I have read in my life.
I feel like everyone on Earth should read this book; maybe wars wouldn't be a thing anymore if they did...
Reading this book really makes you realize that war is real.
It isn't the crisp uniforms of army officers, the fast, air force jets, or the big boom of navy guns that we see in commericals for the armed forces; images that paint a distorted picture of the reality of war.War it dirty, dispairing, desperate, and destructive.War is death.Johnny Got His Gun is a book that shows another face of death.
It's a kind of death where your mind becomes your enemy, a foe that is as brutal as any that can be found on a battlefied.It's not possible to read this book and not see war and words like "patriot," "honor," and "freedom" in a different light.A Brutal and powerful novel.
If you want to read a really good book about WW I - why young people decided to sign up for it, what it was like at the front, and what the war did to people - read Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front, because Trumbo will tell you pretty much nothing about it.
Honestly, I am pretty astounded that so many reviewers describe Trumbo's tale as a story about the atrocities of war, because it talks about the protagonist's life before the war (mainly about his family, friends, and girlfriend) and after the war, as an invalid in a hospital bed.
A scathing anti-war novel.
But he can think alright, which was more than enough, because he thought like this,“did anybody ever come back from the dead any single one of the millions who got killed did any one of them ever come back and say by god i'm glad i'm dead because death is always better than dishonor?
did they say i like death better than losing liberty?
did any of them say hurray i died for womanhood and i'm happy see how i sing even though my mouth is choked with worms?” And what kind of liberty were they fighting for anyway?
Koliko se sjećam sve sam ja njih pročitao (Serpico, Konje ubijaju zar ne, Psi od slame, Vrt ...., Frenezija, Klut...) no neke su isparile iz malih sivih stanica.Uglavnom "Johnny" je bezvremenski dragulj, grozni horor o užasima rata i užasno unakaženom vojniku (nešto stravično) koji pokušava nekako iskočiti iz svoje "samice".Stvarno je točan komentar kako ju nikada nećete zaboraviti ako ju pročitate, a treba ju pročitati svakako.Čak sam tek sada otkrio da ju je autor napisao i prije II.
I finished this book in December of '07, Johnny Got his Gun, and it made me want to shoot myself in the face.It is written in second person limited, which is annoying enough if not for the added limitation of narrating through a character with no eyes, nose, ears, mouth or limbs.
Written primarily in stream-of-consciousness, I simply wanted to cut my eyes out so that I could at least fall asleep on my 5-hour flight.
Johnny was supposed to be an anti-war novel, receiving a mountain of praise for being eloquent and emotional.
It sure did drive me to emotion - uncontrollable masochism.
