https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59102.Testimony_of_Two_Men
Set in the early 1900's, it tells the story of Jonathan Ferrier, the once-respected doctor of a small Pennsylvania town.
His reputation is now in shreds due to the death of his young and very beautiful wife Mavis as the result of a botched abortion, for which Jonathan was arrested and tried.
Acquitted of the crime, he is haunted by the past and in the process of selling his practice to a new doctor as the story opens.
Politics, family drama and doomed romance are woven together with some history of the early days of "modern" medicine, when washing your hands between surgeries or patients was a "new-fangled" and possible foolish practice.
I have been a voracious reader since childhood and I read this after viewing the miniseries of this book on TV.
I don't really remember the miniseries all that well but I did end up reading the book after viewing the TV program while I Was a youngster in the 70s.
Caldwell really brings the setting of the story to life with her phenomenal descriptions of everything from the people , to outdoor scenery, to clothing and furniture.
Caldwell is truly the outstanding painter of "word pictures" and that is just what I like and demand from my period reading material.
Loved this book. I have my old copy which is yellowed, pages are dog-eared, notes in the margin. How it changed my life as a young girl. It's the book where I thought, "I might write a novel."
With the current interest in historical novels, I'd like to see some of her books made available again, especially this one.01/19/10: Nice to see that Chicago Review Press will be reissuing TESTIMONY OF TWO MEN on April 1st - though paperback and hardcover copies of this book can often be found in used bookstores, it's been unavailable to the general public for far too long.
Prod Desc: Someday the town of Hambledon might forget the lies they told about their brilliant young doctor.
From this compelling story of a doctor at war with the world he has been taught to heal, Taylor Caldwell has fashioned a novel of an unforgettable, angry idealist -- a novel in which the drama of new medical frontiers becomes part of a sweeping chronicle of love, death, desire, and redemption.I was introduced to the wonderful writing of Taylor Caldwell while still in high school.
This is a story in which one becomes completely immersed and is superbly told, start to end.
I'm giving it a 3- I think that I read it for the first time about 40 years ago, and it was one of my favourite books for many years.
Re-reading it as an adult was a different story- it's still a good (if long) story, but I can see more faults than I used to.
But it's problematic, and I don't think that it's aged well.
By the time I was done reading and went to look up Caldwell's wikipedia it was no surprise at all to learn that she wrote for the John Birch society, and was anti-semetic, and anti-equality.
I wish that I hadn't re-read it as an adult.
I didn't love it, but didn't hate it.
I might have more to say about this novel later. For now I'll say it's a great story about a larger-than-life physician trying to survive being moral (when he isn't being outrageously cynical) in an immoral world. Jonathan Ferrier is like all the positive characters in The Fountainhead rolled into a ball and kicked across the county.
Gripping reading. I found the characters fascinating and the insight into the nature of people really exciting.Didn't enjoy parts of the book - once or twice (not often), it was a little slow; also I felt some of the violence and sex described was unnecessarily crude or graphic.
Nevertheless, the people in his village, where he has worked and treated them all his life, have turned against him, certain that he is guilty.
Ferrier is an excellent and modern doctor, with a keen eye for his diagnoses, which usually disagree with what older doctors say.
He is so straight-forward and apparently cold that people tend to believe he is wrong.
Unfortunately, over and over again time has proven him right.
He has become very bitter, feeling abandoned by his peers, the people he has helped so many times, and his family.
Excellent analysis of society and human beings.
It's been 45 years since I first read Testimony of Two Men, so I wasn't sure if it would live up to the memories.
While I certainly remembered the gist of the story, there were so many details that I had forgotten over the years that it held me captive, once again.
This does not detract from the story, in the long run, so it's worth it to just push through.I'm so glad I re-read this book because I had such fond memories of having read it in high school.
Thoroughly enjoyed reading this from the first page to the last. This is Peyton Place and Tennessee Williams plays (and a little bit of Pride and Prejudice) all rolled into one, depicting the small town life at the turn of the 20th century, with its prejudices and all that pent up tension. The hero of the book, Jonathan Ferrier, is simply magnificent, and the evolution of medicine around that time was fascinating to read.
Fascinating look at human natureI'll rarely read a book more than once, yet I've read this three times over a 40 year period. It is a fascinating story that dives into turn of the century medicine.
Taylor Caldwell's "Testimony of Two Men" is a wonderful book. This is my second time around. I read it when it first came on on the shelves. 50 years later, it still has you think about man's humanity. Very timely.
Enjoyed it a lot
Long and wordy, but very well-written tale of a brash 1900 doctor, scorned by the town for a murder he did not commit, and his relationships. Seemed like an interesting old-fashioned classic to me.
I had forgotten about Taylor Caldwell. I remember reading some of her books and somehow missed this one. I liked it.
An enjoyable readAn enjoyable read and an interesting study of human nature. There was a miniseries made of this years ago; I think I'll see if it's available on Amazon!
Awful, repetitive and never ending.
Outstanding writing. Good novel. Definitely a good read!
It's hard not to be impressed by the scope of it—600 fairly engrossing pages; there's nothing to argue with in the writer's overall technique—she spins a good story and knows her time period; and I was sympathetic to the basic premise of the novel.
Jonathon Ferrier, the doctor-hero of the story, is certainly persecuted, but not so much because of his medical know-how.
But there was just a little too much preaching for me, even though I was often sympathetic to the author’s point of view.I remember when Taylor Caldwell was a huge name.
And I remember reading and loving this novel way back in the day.
At the time I was a young nurse and was fascinated by the ignorance of the men who did so much harm to their patients with their refusal to accept asepsis and one man's if rather extreme fight with both his own nature and his intolerance for weaknesses in his fellowman.Jonathan Ferrier is my favorite fictional character and I promise myself if I ever had a son I would name him Jonathan.
Many have said Miss Caldwell is too wordy, I think this novel is perfect the way it is and have read it every year or two ever since.
Excellent book, portraying not only the difficulty the medical profession had within its own ranks to recognize germs and the prevention of infection, but also the intricacies of human motive and behaviour in general.
Her books cover historical figures and well as fictional characters/stories which portray a historical period.
But what I love is that she had understanding the socio-political climes in which she sets her stories and it's interesting (or perhaps just sad) to read how nothing really changes.
What was true of our socio-political world in 1900 and 1920 remains true today.
I first learned about sepsis and antiseptic from this book.
I was amazed that the world thought there was no such thing as dying from little things you couldn't see called "germs" .
Was a real eye opener in my 20's about medical history, and how hard some doctors had to fight to make other doctors wash their hands before delivering babies.
Unheard of!!
great story...
After this, I can't get enough of medical history, medical history novels and the like.
Was thoroughly entranced in this novel.
her novels are a bit preachy.
Live and Learn.
Live and Read.
My favorite Taylor Caldwell book. The main character sacrifices himself for a town that wrongfully hates him. He struggles with the problems of injustice and pain. He becomes cold as his service to the town is continually met with mistrust and rejection, yet he serves and eventually learns to love again and find hope. So well written. Caldwell is able to sharply focus the individual's struggle in a sea of cruel humanity and bring out the beauty of selfless sacrifice in the name of humanity. She brings out the best of humanity in the individual that struggles against humanity itself.
The e-book version I downloaded from Kindle was TERRIBLY edited. It had obviously been scanned, but unedited. Many times you'd read "hps" instead of "lips". Punctuation added or missing. There were probably as many such errors as pages.The book was interesting, but ultimately a let-down. The main character somewhat resembled Howard Roark from The Fountainhead, but learns the necessity to compromise – something Roark would never do. I thought of Ibsen's David Stockmann, also, but again his principles were abandoned.I wouldn't recommend this novel. There are better.
This is an epic novel that has a little of everything; philosophy, medical history,love, sex, and a murder mystery. Yes, it is long, but it's the kind of book you can get immersed in. I looked forward to picking it up every night before bed! The characters are flawed, even the protagonist; and it is the struggle of these characters to do or not do the right thing that moves the story along. That story is unpredictable, exciting, and at times alarming. A great read for fun!
I first read this book probably over 30 years ago, and have read it at least once or twice more and would probably read it again. I could hardly get enough of Taylor Caldwell's books back then, and still treasure the ones I got from my Mom. This was made into a TV mini-series, one of the first of its kind, and it was intriguing - a family saga that unfolds over the years, with death and deceit an integral part. I want to go read it again!!!!
The story was intriguing and the writing breathtaking at times. There were many passages where I thought I'd surely give the novel five stars just based on the beauty of the words alone. But ultimately, my emotional connection to the characters waned in the end and I just didn't feel as compelled or invested enough to award that final star. Still a read I don't regret. The thoughtful commentary on human behavior and judgement both inward and outward was reason enough.
I read a number of Caldwell's books back in the 1970's and thoroughly enjoyed them. At the time I found it interesting her mention of the International Bankers--very wealthy people who "control" governments and politics. Several of her novels center around this theme. This is probably the book, though, that I remember and enjoyed the most.
