https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849287.The_Twelve_Dancing_Princesses
However, that still cannot make me accept the fact that the princesses would knowingly send potential suitors to their likely doom, simply in order to safeguard their secret dancing)With that in mind, I actually somewhat prefer Marianna Mayer's adaptation of the Grimms' tale, although I do believe that it is a bit text-heavy and more suitable for older children (I could imagine younger children becoming a bit distracted and losing interest or focus).
However, this is CLEARLY an adaptation of the Grimms' tale mentioned above, and I simply cannot understand (and accept) the fact that Marianna Mayer has not provided an author's note, or even a short blurb acknowledging her sources (I mean, it is not as though the Brothers Grimm are unknown entities).
Though the story is a bit over-long, it is nicely told. This earns five stars, though, due to the absolutely exquisite artwork! Oh, wow! What a gorgeous presentation. From the sweet little borders to the full-page spreads, this is nothing but beauty-beauty-beauty! Rich and decadent, full of flowers and silks and romance. A highly recommended visual feast!
I also enjoyed that in this version the hero is a gardener and not (yet another) prince.For a fairy tale for young kids, I did think the tale part was very long, perhaps too long for one sitting with young children.
that will keep them enthralled as they listen.I doubt I’d ever have reread this fairy tale if not for this online book group so, once again, thanks to the Picture Books Club and the Children's Books group.I do think it’s a weird little tale, but that can be said of many fairy tales.
Let me start by saying how beautiful and vibrant the illustrations in this book are - they are truly eye catching and classic.The story is also beautifully told. Like most fairy tales it isn't incredibly in-depth, but Mayer manages to say a lot with a few carefully chosen phrases so that it feels like there's so much more to the story than it initially would appear.With beautiful words and exquisite illustrations, this book manages to capture and convey true enchantment.

I read this with a small head lamp I held in my hand and then looked at the pictures again in normal lighting later.
The illustrations are gorgeous and hold magic especially when looked at with the little light I rolled it around the pages, some several times.
I loved the way the castle looked.
Hopefully if you give it a try you will get the same effects.The story is a version of the Twelve Dancing Princesses tale.
The story of princesses who every morning have worn out satin dancing slippers and the mystery of how they got them.
Some precious-lady stereotyping, but not much. Gorgeous art, lots of white people.
Beautifully illustrated and told, this book was recommended to me by a writer friend, as I am working on a fairy tale; and it was perfectly lovely.
Our girls like to look up books on our library's online catalogue. This weekend she looked up dancing. For fun, we borrowed a couple of versions of the Brothers Grimm story, The Twelve Dancing Princesses. This is a very elaborately illustrated and expanded version of the tale. It's a longer story overall than the other story we read and the intricate illustrations are gorgeous. We really enjoyed our little experiment.This book was featured as one of the selections for the April 2011 Royalty-themed reads for the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
What a beautiful and stunning book.
I remember reading this as a child and being mesmerized by the illustrations and the story line.
Nothing has changed two decades later.
The author Marianna Mayer writes a story that can easily be categorized as a fairy tale.
Each page shows impeccable details that makes the story rich.
I gave this book a five rating because it is timeless and keeps the attention of the reader through and through.
If you have not read this book, read it as soon as possible!
I've read this tale from many, many years ago when I was about eight. So it was such a delight to read this again, and with the lovely illustrations by K. Y. Craft! My kids loved this book!
A good fairy tale, although somewhat, obviously pre-feminism.
I can't remember a time when I didn't have this book. I was enchanted by the BEAUTIFUl illistrations! I LOVE this book!
What a gorgeous book. I couldn't stop staring at the pictures.
“THE TWELVE DANCING PRINCESSES”: is a beautiful fairy tales children’s book written by Marianna Mayer, Kinuko Y.
For girls at that time, dancing is an endless passion, but they cannot share that truth with their father, the king of the kingdom.
In addition to the lesson that the reader receives after the story, that there is no need to know what the truth is, parents are the people who we need to share our hopes and desires.
If this was a story created by Mayer and not a retelling, I would not hesitate to give it 5 stars, but the truth was not.
A king lived with his twelve beautiful daughters.
He loved his daughters so much and would do anything for them.
Every night he would check that all his daughters were in bed and then he would go to bed himself.
The king tells people of his concern and asks for others to help him figure out the mystery.
Whoever figured out what was going on would receive a prize.
Who is going to solve the mystery and receive the price?
A fun story unlike other fairy tales.
Great illustrations to go with a fun story.
The Twelve Dancing Princesses tells the tale of twelve sisters who are locked in an enchantment. Each night, they go to the Twilight Kingdom where they dance until dawn. Princes who have tried to rescue them are poisoned so that they never leave. Only Peter, a common gardener, has figured out the truth behind the mysterious princesses. It is Peter's love for Elise, the youngest, that breaks the spell and releases everyone from the Twilight Kingdom. This is a fun, though superficial, folktale. The illustrations are breathtaking but if you are looking for a tale with deeper meaning, look elsewhere.
I love, love love Kinuko Craft's artwork, indeed I have ever since I was a child. I actually read this book as a child but rediscovered it when looking for another book. I still love the artwork, the sumptuous attention to detail, the stunning use of colors. I think I largely have to give credit to her artwork for making me love the story so much. Part of me wants to hunt down all the fairy tales she illustrated ... maybe one day.
Genre: Traditional Literature Date: 11-30Grade: 1-4This book was another story I was not familiar with until I picked it up. It's the story of 12 enchanted princesses who dance the night away with little choice. Everyone who tries to break the enchantment goes missing until a lowly gardener decides he wants to take a shot at it. It's a bit unrealistic how the story happens, but it is fun to imagine the dancing princesses and what might happen to them at night.
One of my favorite fairy tales! Marianna Mayer has such a way with them. And the illustrations are stunning to say the least.  https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8...https://www.goodreads.com/author/show...https://www.goodreads.com/author/show...
I grew up with this story and this particular rendition/edition is so beautiful. The detailed, gorgeous illustrations only underscore this fascinating story and I can highly recommend this not only as a must-have for your little princess(es)' bedtime reading but for adults alike. Truly a magnificent book!
This book has the most beautiful illustrations. And the story is very compelling. Each night the 12 princesses dance through their dancing shoes and the kingdom wonders why. But only a lowly farm boy can find out the truth. This is one of the best versions of this story available.
I like the retelling of this story and I love the illustrations. This story is usually told the exact same way but I love the way that the author changed it and made the gardener more princely, noble and chivalrous than in the actual story.
my favorite kid's book, beautiful artwork
One of the most magical memories of my childhood was reading this book, over and over and over again.
This is a beautiful telling of The Twelve Dancing Princesses with gorgeous illustrations. My kids and I love this.
Great old fashioned illustrations.
This is the most comprehensive version of the fairy tale that I've read.
The story of 12 beautiful princesses and the mystery of their tattered shoes. I would give the story two out of five stars because it seems to be almost unbelievably embellished.
Enchanting paintings accompany a beloved story of twelve sisters looking for adventure and the gentleman who catches them at their own game.
