https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/293625.Child_of_God
You are either going to have to find some other way to live or some other place in the world to do it in.”What the sheriff should have done, if he’d had any inkling of what was to come, was to gunnysack Lester, and throw him in a deep river.
Lester doesn’t seem like the type that would ever think paying taxes was in his best interest.
Lester had such a good time he brought her back to an abandoned house he’d been using for shelter.
Child of God is another impressive addition to the American mythology of darkness that McCarthy has built.The story of Lester Ballard is not for the squeamish as McCarthy illuminates his depravity without ever shielding the readers eyes from the disgusting sights.
Chronicling his life, McCarthy depicts Ballard as a man alienated by his community, chased like a rat into hiding because of his differences and difficulties putting on a normal persona in the world.
It is short as to not begrudge the reader with too much darkness and entertaining and engaging enough so that most can finish it in a sitting or two.This is a bleak novel with little to nothing in the way of redemption within the book.
Kind of a really useless fact.And now the actual review.ME AND CORMAC, WE GO BACK A LONG WAY.This was a re-read, my first for years, and once again I loved Cormac's outrageous, daring style.
Now Barbara Gowdy, in her arresting story "We So Seldom Look On Love", makes a case that there are indeed true necrophiles, people that only love people if they're dead.
Now Lester Ballard, if he could only of met a nice girl some time in his early life and could of settled down somewhat, it may have been the making of him.
FIGLI DI UN DIO MINORE?
Mi colpisce nell'opera di McCarthy il ruolo che è sempre affidato alla natura: grande coprotagonista di tutte le storie, dura, selvaggia, violenta, ostica, ma non cattiva, non maligna – racchiude la colpa e il peccato, e una sua qualche redenzione.
Great day in the morning! He is making me homesick! Just the speech patterns which McCarthy nails. It reminded me of River's Edge although the movie seems mild by comparison. Maybe, I'm just grateful that it used an inflatable doll.Dennis Hopper as Feck and Daniel Roebuck as Samson "John" Tollet from River's Edge (1987)
Child of God: Cormac McCarthy's Outcast First edition, Random House, New York, New York, 1973 "He moves in the dry chaff among the dust and slats of sunlight with a constrained truculence. Saxon and Celtic bloods. A child of God much like yourself perhaps. The setting is Sevier County, Tennessee, in the 1960s. Our protagonist is twenty-seven. He is an orphan. His life between the suicide of his father and the loss of his home is an unanswered question. We are dropped into his story in medias res
Child of God: Cormac McCarthy's Outcast
I am constantly reminded of the words of John Steinbeck from East of Eden: "You must not forget that a monster is only a variation, and that to a monster the norm is monstrous.” Child of God is McCarthy's third novel, published in 1973.
Or, call it a necessary breather, particularly after being wrung by the neck by Outer Dark.It took the novel being selected for a group read by members of "On the Southern Literary Trail" to cause me to begin to turn the pages.
There is something inherently wrong with Lester Ballard. As he skulks through the backwoods of Eastern Tennessee, a hunting rifle is his only companion. Ballard's skewed thinking, awkward ways, and repugnant proclivities render him unfit to be around other people. Darkly disturbing, fascinating and repellent. Another walk in the dark with Cormac McCarthy. This is his territory.
HE SEEZ DEAD PEOPLE. THEN FUCKS THEM.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsAllow me to introduce you to my new boyfriend, Lester Ballard . . . .  Ha! Just kidding. There’s apparently even a limit to how weird I like ‘em. However, just in case you think Mitchell and I are slipping, please note that this title was added to the TBR once we discovered it was about a necrophile, which is basically our literary equivalent to . . . .  As I said before, the story here is about a man named Lester Ballard . .
If you don’t enjoy McCarthy’s style of writing, the shock and awe factor won’t be enough to turn you into a fan because it is still sparse and he is still allergic to quotation marks.
Really, even if you do enjoy McCarthy’s style of writing, the sheer amount of shock and awe factor contained in this one might turn your stomach and turn you away from picking up his stuff in the future.
I have to say McCarthy did a pretty freaking stellar job writing Lester Ballard, since I couldn’t help but feel sorry for him at times.
Creeeeepy!!! I couldn’t help but think of Ed Gein while reading this book. Yuck!! Very morbidly entertaining. Lol.
What made me squirm was Cormac’s ability to actually get me to relate to the lonely outcast and feel some sympathy for him, showing me the human side to a character we would all regard as subhuman.
What happens to those who have been locked out of normality by the same societies that judge them?'Child Of God' is like nothing you've ever read before.
Read this book and you will be shocked.
It is a must read for any avid adult reader; a book that is both brave and depraved at the same time.
“He did not know how hawks mated but he knew that all things fought.”― Cormac McCarthy, Child of GodAnd HE has sent me here?*Look, I've read a lot (ok all) of Cormac McCarthy and this is not your mother's McCarthy.
I think this novel was the final pupa-state before McCarthy emerged as THE absolute dark monster of American fiction and heir to Faulkner's title of ambassador to the strange malevolence of America's soul.
There is an old Mormon children's song called "I am a Child of God." The title of this book just always reminds me of that innocent and rather wholesome nugget from my youth.
I usually try to stay away from any kind of review or description of a book just prior to reading, but I had recently come across the fact that this was supposed to be McCarthy's darkest work.Boy, I'll say.This book will make you feel like you need a long shower afterwards.
If you like that squirmy feeling that arises during off-kilter scenes of violence and sex, by all means give this one a try.Now it's time for a couple of tangents for my own amusement...First, does anyone else have a fixed mental image of a writer when reading a literary work?
Lester Ballard is a strange guy, a marginal.
He kills strangers, whom an unfortunate chance has placed on his way, without affect, emotion, or anger.
He kills, driven by his instinct, an animal instinct.
As Lester Ballard moves away from civilization, alone and miserable, more and more animal, he sinks into madness.This theme treated by another person would have sunk into vulgarity and ease.
McCarthy is a demanding author.His story is dark, gloomy, desperate but he never falls into easy trash and lust.
the story resembles the life of Lester Ballard; a wandering aimlessly, guided by chance.
Such a Cute Little Novel about a Cave-Dwelling Necrophiliac Murderer The narrator of this short novel describes the main character, Lester Ballard, as "a child of God much like yourself perhaps." A 27-year-old hillbilly outcast in 1960s, Sevier County (Smoky Mountains), Tennessee. He had no parents, recently lost his home and cannot carry on normal relationships with women. When he finds a couple dead in a parked car, he takes the woman with him to be his necro-concubine in a house in which he'
Such a Cute Little Novel about a Cave-Dwelling Necrophiliac Murderer
He had no parents, recently lost his home and cannot carry on normal relationships with women.
When he finds a couple dead in a parked car, he takes the woman with him to be his necro-concubine in a house in which he's squatting.
When the house burns down, along with the woman's corpse, he goes out to harvest other women to meet his needs by shooting/killing them and taking their corpses to a cave in which he takes up residence.
This is one of those books that, when you read it, and really like it, it makes you wonder if you should be worried about yourself.
I mean it’s kind of like finding something brown and wondering if it might be chocolate and tasting it and discovering that it really is something vile and disgusting.
I mean you found the brown thing on the floor, so there was no way you REALLY could have been expecting chocolate and then, Oh look!
There’s another something brown and you taste it again!
I mean this book is written by Cormac McCarthy – so I knew what it would be like.
Reminiscent of a recent good story with a similar darkness, The Devil All the Time by Donald Ray Pollock.The main protagonist is a an individual whose disturbed, a sociopath, who does the unspeakable with the dead.There are shocking moments, repulsive and bizarre, in one place in the story he carried off a dead woman, along with the squirrels he hunted, to a resting place to partake in unspeakable acts.He also has the murder of a child to his name, there is yonder much toil, blood, and darkness.The tale is shockingly, vivid, and terrible in content, but told in great sentences, with words in the right places.Told by an author who can make the groutesque and terrible beautiful with his lyrical craftmanship.The right length of novel that would linger in your mind either in shock or awe."To watch these things issuing from the otherwise mute pastoral morning is a man at the barn door.
Maybe it’s because I hadn’t read this book in nearly 20-years, or because I’ve just generally been on a Southern Gothic kick as of late, but I’m giving this bastard a grade it really doesn’t deserve.
You honestly could have read twenty-five percent of the book by the time you finish this sentence.
Now twenty-seven percent.So I’ll say this: if you think, like I certainly do, that more books could benefit from hillbilly ghouls ticking scratchscratchscratch against the lens of your eyeball with the yellowed filepoints of their fingertips, then Child of God be with you.
Perchè adoro la capacità che solo poche persone hanno di raccontare i fatti come sono, senza indorare la pillola nè per sè nè per gli altri, perché il parlare d'orrore di McCarthy sembra comunque una poesia, un flusso d'acqua che inevitabilmente scorre e dice tutto, anche ciò che preferiresti non sapere.
Non si può neanche parlare di malvagità, si parla dell'uomo/animale, peggio, di una bestia senza affetti, sola con le pulsioni primarie, è lui il primate di cui parla riferendosi al bambino che compare per qualche pagina, è un uomo che non è mai stato amato.
Typical dark, dark McCarthy book. Really breaks contemporary stereotypes of where you think the story is going.
It's our first look into Ballard's surprising youth, and his blunt, almost humorous exchange sets in something almost likable about him, regardless of, or perhaps due to, his flippancy.Like The Road, the land is hostile and giving in equal amounts, but nearing the end, there's a terrifying scene of claustrophobia and darkness so intense that the madness culminates not in the actions of people, but in the collapsing of the psyche.
Going through the robotic motions of survival, McCarthy's Ballard is a man and a creature unforgettable, and Tennessee is a landscape hazy and shadowed, lurking with undertones of violence, betraying and nursing and secretive.Child of God is a novel to be hallowed.
La discesa agli inferi...DOVE?In un qualunque paese del Tennessee tra alture e fitti boschi.QUANDO?Negli anni '60.
Povertà, incesti, ku klux klan, convivenza con una natura selvaggia ed un clima rigido...CHI?Lester Ballard.
La narrazione è asciutta, senza l'intento di essere un romanzo psicologico.
Lester Ballard è un uomo nato negli inferi e qui si mette in scena la sua ulteriore discesa nelle cavità terrestri.
(view spoiler)[ Il luogo deputato al completo deterioramento della psiche, infatti, è una caverna.
Un perfetto nascondiglio per ciò che Ballard diverrà (cioè un serial killer); una splendida metafora per un viaggio senza ritorno nella propria pazzia.
Let me warn you now.) Not to be deterred, I bought a flashlight from the grocery store and walked through the pipe for a long time, finally coming out on the other side of a busy road.
All I found inside was water and dirt, but I returned awhile later to put some treasure in the box: some old toys I didn't play with anymore.
It's an ingrained aesthetic, and I don't know what childhood trauma or early experience lies behind it, but it carries over into the books I read, the colors I like, and just about everything.Anyway, to conclude my review of the book: Cormac McCarthy is me.
Go Spelunking!“You think people was meaner back then than they are now?
I think people are the same from the day God first made one.”People are bad to the bone.
I don’t think I’ve read a more misanthropic book in my life.
What?If those last few sentences make it sound like there’s poo poo play in this novel, don’t worry, there isn’t.
But that’s about the only depravity you can think of that isn’t.
Lester Ballard has a lot of issues.My favorite thing about this novel was its unexpected humor.
No one told me this book was funny.
The cruelty displayed toward him is thoughtless, and you can actually see what drives him to do what he does.There are some amusing asides that remind me of the stories that the sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones character) tells in No Country - little nuggets of life in a nothing little town - that are great.Overall, I think this is a great book - it made me feel an immense amount of compassion for this man - some might think he is a monster, but you see how everything played out, you see what was driving him to that point in his life.
Orrore, raccapriccio, violenza, miseria? Sì, ma non solo.McCarthy mi piace sempre di più. Lui racconta l’irraccontabile con la sua prosa scarna, ruvida e splendida, mentre io non posso evitare di farmi coinvolgere, di metterci i sentimenti, le emozioni, gli interrogativi che sempre riesce a suscitare in me."Quando se ne furono andati, restò a guardare le orde di stelle fredde disseminate lassù nella cornice del buco, e si domandò di cosa fossero fatte, e di cosa fosse fatto lui".https://youtu.be/TlDumR6QOpE
Cormac McCarthy has an ability to turn a savage, degenerated human qualities into poetry, dark but still poetry. Loved this book. My video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6oDyZ...
However, in spite of the perpetual mystifications, the message remains clear- human degradation in its purest form.''Child of God'', although far from his finest work, even now, exactly four decades after publication, possesses more imagination than most national, international, multi-trillion bestsellers of our time.
Yes, the violence is ever present, when you reach a point reasoning that this is as bad as it gets, McCarthy will cross the line with such blasé- take reason out of the equation, or forget ''Child of God'' .Cormac McCarthy has a trademark ability to elicit empathy for his protagonists no matter how terrible their actions are.
Read ''Child of God'' and don't turn your head when it gets ugly.
Whereas in his later novels, McCarthy explores ideas of right and wrong, morality and justice, there is no trace of these in Child of God: only a sheer plunge to the depths of human depravity; an intimate confrontation with the worst that a man can become.
And despite the grim subject matter, this is McCarthy at his most lyrical and poetic.
These images are beautiful, twisted, chilling and yet surprisingly intimate, personal and even comic, in a very morbid way.
It is confronting, it is uncomfortable, and it stays with you.
I finished this book yesterday morning and then was an absolute emotional wreck for almost the whole rest of the day. I don't know if there's any connection or not (I also didn't eat the day before except a Greek yogurt, a rice pudding, and movie popcorn and also drank a shitload of Earl Grey AND stayed up too late AND saw Let the Right One In [which is exquisite:]), but oh my LORD. This is a book I will never recommend to my Mom, to say the freaken LEAST. Just utterly stunningly backbreakingly horrifying.
