https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/755299.Web_of_Dreams
I enjoyed the ending of this series and look forward to reading more of these books (that I have adored for years).
I have so many of them just sitting on my book shelves and after reading this one I have this intense need to start on another series that I haven’t read yet.
If you are a new V.C. Andrews reader, I recommend starting with the first book of the series of course.
Just be sure to make sure it is the first book in the series as you need to read them in order.
Yes, Tony was a slimeball for what he did, but leaving his child up in the mountains without even checking up on its welfare?It seems that these flaws are Andrew Neiderman's making, since VCA was unable to finish this book, and Neiderman had to finish it for her.
These flaws are what keep this book from being 5 stars, and it would have been great if Neiderman had paid more attention to VCA's detail to make sure he didn't contradict or retcon anything, but what's done is done and you'll just have to take this book as it is.
Need to be reviewed.ETA (9/25/15):Trigger Warning: Rape mention.
Child sex abuse mention.V.C Andrews is my ultimate guilty pleasure read (currently).
That freaky doll that Leigh had to pose in the nude (at 12 years old!) for her step dad to paint and later sculpt, which served as a catalyst for the rape itself.
That whole plot line made my skin crawl.
I admire the bravery of survivors who reach out are believed, and have the abuser(s) get prosecuted.
I didn't realize until now how much this plot-line has really affected me.So this book took me on a whirlwind of emotions from lolz to sadz.
While our fourth book gave us Annoying Annie, Heaven's daughter, the fifth one showed us where all of the sick secrets ("the evil Casteel curse") began with Leigh, Heaven's mother.The book starts out with Annie and (not actually her brother/cousin) Luke at Farthinggale, there to bury Troy, Annie's real and fabulous father.
Shame on you, Clive.Jillian spins into her own world, constantly working to keep up her beautiful youthful appearance, and ignoring her own daughter, new husband, and adorable brother-in-law, who is essentially her stepson because he's four and being raised by Tony.
Not Annie's Luke, but Heaven's father!
Cleave owns a cruise ship company, which Jillian loved at one point because it made her feel wealthy and important, but the bloom is off that rose and she now yearns for a mansion with a maze – hmm, that is awfully specific.The book goes on to tell the full story of Leigh, and it ends with Annie flipping through the rest of the blank pages and finding a letter from a PI to Tony, explaining that Leigh died in childbirth.
Wow! This book was so bad, it was great! I just can't believe anyone would be as stupid as Leigh and her mom were. No way, Jose. (Although I guess you don't read V.C. Andrews for its realism!)"My stepfather wants to paint nude pictures of me and makes inappropriate remarks. Is that normal?" "Yes, Leigh. He's an artist. And artists have to paint nude people. Particularly my 14-year-old daughter."Ugh. I think Leigh should have taken karate lessons. Then she could've taken care of sleazy Tony AND mommy dearest!

I WAS SO MAD WHEN I DISCOVERED JUST HOW SELFCENTERD JILLIAN REALLY WAS. I FELT SO SHOCKED WHEN I READ THAT LEIGH WAS NOT CLEAVES REAL DAUGHTER. HOW THE CINDERELLA STORY THAT JILLIAN INVENTED WAS NOTHING MORE THAN WISHFULL THINKING ON JILLIANS BEHALF. WHAT I WISH WOULD HAVE HAPPEN IS FOR THERE TO BE A BOOK EXPLAINING WHY JILLIAN WAS SO HELL BENT ON BEING SO MUCH IN LOVE WITH HERSELF.
(Rating based on my remembered feelings when I read this book as a 14 year old.)
She takes her daughter Leigh to meet Tony and his little brother Troy.
Their parents died in an accident and Tony is more of a father to Troy than a brother.Lying about her age, Jillian leaves her husband and marries Tony Tatterton, who believes she is 20 years younger than she actually is.
Then there is a letter from a private investigator letting Jillian know they located her daughter in the Willies and that she had died in childbirth and that the baby lived, (who was Heaven Casteel, named by Luke).It was a good book but a little long and drawn out.
This certainly doesn't hold it's own with classic literature but it was almost 500 pages & good to hammer in lots of verbs & nouns.
Our nymphette Leigh although maybe slightly curious & flattered by her stepfather's attentions, is not seduced, but raped by him, which I think makes quite a powerful & accurate statement about the nature of the Humberts & Lolitas in the world.
If not an actual rape, I'm sure Andrews wished to express that behind all such twisted relations involving abuse of power, there is at the very least a kind of rape of the soul or will.
I read this book in record time; it had amazing word usage and emotion.
A line in particular caught my attention and pulled at my heart "I want to take care of you from now on, protect you, love you.
The emotion and love in the words made my heart want to explode, just from the way you can almost feel how in love with her he really is.
The entire book amazed me and held my attention, but there was one part that just reached out and grabbed me.
I'm really good I did.This is the story of Leigh, read through her diary by her granddaughter.
Although Leigh loves living in the splendour of his mansion and her step-brother, Troy, she misses her father and her old life.
And as her mother becomes more distant, encouraging her daughter to 'occupy' her husband, Leigh is drawn into a life she hates.
Leigh's life is tragic and disturbing, but makes for a page-turning read!
My only critiscm is that Leigh is supposed to be 12 when she starts the diary, but comes across as being a lot older and sophisticated than that.
When Virginia became seriously ill while writing the Casteel series, she began to work even harder, hoping to finish as many stories as possible so that her fans could one day share them.
Beginning with the final books in the Casteel series they worked closely with a carefully selected writer to organize and complete Virginia's stories and to expand upon them.
The novels that may have been begun by Andrews and finished by Neiderman were Garden of Shadows, Fallen Hearts, Gates of Paradise, and Web of Dreams.
Jillian and Tony are simply monsters, I felt sorry for Jillian in the previous book, but now I think she deserved what happened to her.
Troy was such a wonderful boy, and he grew up to be the Troy we all love, despite the circumstances the surrounded his life and Farthy.
I can't help but wonder: What happened to Luke?
Would Leigh and Luke have been happy if she had not died?
And finally, as I read in a review, how did the diary end up at Farthy if Leigh had it until she died?
This novel is technically the last book in the Casteel family series, but I actually read this book first because a) I hate suspense and b) it bothers me when I don't know what is going on.It's hard to review this like anyone else might because I DID read this book first, but rest of the series aside, I did enjoy it.
At times it was slow and boring but the characters were fascinating and at the time it was like nothing I had ever read before.
VC Andrews knows how to hurt you right in the feels. I loved this series so much. It was so haunting, sad and beautiful. I'm glad we got to see Leigh's story and to see what was really going on at Farthy. Loved this book a lot.
It was slow but I loved hearing it from Leigh's POV
Je dois dire que j'ai vraiment adoré ce tome et l'histoire de Leigh qui va découvrir de la plus terrible des manières la vraie personnalité de sa mère, Jillian, ravissante égoïste uniquement soucieuse d'elle-même et de sa beauté.
Pour un peu, Jillian réussirait à voler la première place de la "pire mère du monde" à Corinne (la mère de Fleurs Captives) tant elle exige de sa pauvre Leigh, faisant en sorte que sa propre fille éveille le désir de son mari (tout ça parce qu'elle n'a pas envie de coucher avec lui de peur de s'abimer...).
Totally ridiculous story and unnecessary prequel to the 'saga' has bookends of character finding diary of grandmother - except it is not a diary - it is not written like a diary, it is written by someone reflecting on life years later, except they could not be - anyway apart from that the three main characters are all ridiculous caricatures - two dimensional and what is it about crazy mother characters? It was veery easy to read, although it was also too long.Nothing to see here.
I just wasn't as in love with this book like some of the others in this series. I sadly felt like I already knew what was going on and so the parts that should have been stand out big parts were just a reminder from the previous books anyways. It was interesting though right at the very end to see that Heaven's father was actually the one who wanted to name her and that truly up until the point of childbirth he was in love with her and ready to be her father.
This book answered some questions but definitely not all of them. It also explained a few things about Luke and Leigh's relationship. I wish it would have explained a bit more but I also feel as though I now understand Jillian and how she drove Tony into the slow evolution of what he became. This wasn't my favorite of the series but mostly because it was a backstory and I knew how it was going to end, having read the prior books.
The author did a great job with the emotions and mental pictures. The ending was perfect…it made sense. This novel grabbed my attention the whole time. I think Jillian and Tony are just monsters. I did feel a little bit bad for Jillian in the previous book, but now I think she got what she deserved. I was stunned to see how different Luke was from his characterization in Heaven. I wonder if Leigh and Luke would have been happy if she had not died
Far from a literary masterpiece, reading a book like this is like watching a movie. No intellectual input required. Therefore as a respite I do enjoy reading books such as this - as long as there is a good enough story to keep me going. And this story is like a tawdry soap opera - very escapist.
Thank God it's over !Yes 5* for bringing the story to a conclusion however in 2018 it's despicable to think that this story was written. It wasn't right then and it's definitely not right now. Admittedly it's only fiction but how can authors write these things. Grooming of children is dreadful , I had to skip a lot pages as i found it too awful to read.
Not the bestI have this book a two star rating. I liked the story of Leigh but I think it's a little lack lustre. I think this should be the first of the series. I do understand why it was written last through. So it ends with the death of Troy Tatterton, father to Annie Casteel.
3 stars = enjoyableI fell in love with VC Andrews' work when I discovered Flowers in the Attic in Grandma's guest room, and proceeded to binge through the Dollanganger series, My Sweet Audrina, then the Casteel series. This telling of Heaven's mother Leigh's youth and family's betrayal of her is shocking and sad. It ends in a hopeful note, which only makes the first book even more tragic.
V.C Andrews spins such stories that you can't stop reading, so much sad happens to her characters, that you are drawn to them and feel for them, and can't wait to see if they finally get a happy ending!!!
I read this series many years ago, I thoroughly enjoyed it from start to finish.
Another emotional journey with Virginia. I have absolutely loved reading this series. It made me laugh and made me cry. I'll definitely read the series again in the future. Wonderful.
