https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1895792.The_Fury_Dark_Reunion
Back in the early '90s, when I was an adolescent (oh how I date myself), I read and reread these books.
In short, each book is like reading a 250 super model photo shoot.
Perhaps that is part of the allure for many kids who read these, but I distinctly remember talking with my friends about which character in the book we'd want to be...and frankly, all are either shallow or wracked with glamorized self-loathing.The remaining question is why on earth after all this criticism did I give the books 4 stars.
In the Fury, Elena wakes up as a vampire and tells the feuding brothers that there was some other dark force that killed her.
Katherine captures Elena, Stefan and Damon with plans to kill them.
Elena manages to thwart her plans and kills Katherine, but dies herself.
No more Elena means no more books right?
(Sigh.) They summon Stefan to help them fight some new evil and Damon tags along as well.
What kind of vampire series would this be without werewolves?
There is no denying that the Vampire Diaries novels get even sillier as the series progresses.
They also suffer a bit from the "I've killed my leading lady repeatedly, now what do I do" syndrome typically only faced by soap opera writers, as well as from the problem of having to rehash old news for readers who have potentially jumped into the series in the middle.
I'm as convinced as ever that a strong, steady diet of trashy YA novels from about 9-16 is about the best thing you can do to ensure you'll be a reader forever.
The first book in this bind up I enjoyed, but the second one not so much. Idk why, maybe because it took a while to get anywhere (atleast 1/4 of the book ugh) but I just didn't enjoy it as much as the other 3 I've read. I listened to the audiobook for the last half, which was nice, definitely made me push through it quicker. I'm glad the storyline is completely different than what I know now, but I'm not sure I'm gonna continue, thinking where it's going with it.
I'm a bit confused as to why this series is so popular.
I started reading the second bind-up of Vampire Diaries as soon as I finished the first one.
The Fury means Elena's life as a vampire, trying to kill Katherine but, in the end, doing the most unselfish thing anyone could do, as Bonnie describes it at the end of book 3...
she risks her life and slowly dies, transforming into ashes, but not before making Stefan and Damon promise they'll take care of each other..
And, finally, The Reunion is the part where Stefan, Damon, Bonnie, Meredith and Matt ally together to confront Klaus, an Old One (like original vamp, who never dies) and bring Elena back - yay!
I think this is my favourite one so far.
Both of them together, but more specifically, Dark Reunion.
Its just a coincidence Elena isnt in that one.
Its not because she is gone that I like it.
I like Elena, but Dark Reunion is the most intense so far.
They dont really explain a lot, including character motives.
There were several things that ppl did and I dont know why, which is kinda bugging me.
And then at the end, wtf happened?
I'm not complaining, but it was kind of a big deal and they didnt explain how it happened at all.
I usually read the book first before I whatch anything based off of it to see the differences.
I dont even know why i gave this book 2 stars.
Another thing is the book kept trying to say she is independent and fierce.
But then she just melts and cries any time something happens to her.
I understand the whole dark and mysterious thing, but you have to get some thoughts and feelings out of him.Lets move on.
The action scenes are so short when your done you are like......
I just do NOT like LJ smith as a writer.
I always found Elena to be selfish and I still do.
Her personality changed a little in this book, so at least she's not that selfish anymore and she actually treats her best friends better.
I wasn't surprised when the old power turned out to be Katherine, I saw it coming.
The only problem I had was that they defeated her too easily, she was an older vampire and she just died so easy.
The second part of the book was better.
It was the same thing with Katherine though, Klaus was defeated so easily when he's an Original he shouldn't have been defeated so fast.
The Fury and Dark Reunion by L.J. SmithThird and fourth in The Vampire Diaries series4.25 starsElena has changed and she’s no longer human.
The Fury and Dark Reunion are what I consider to be the strongest books in The Vampire Diaries series.
I still remember the intense feeling of finding a book that I couldn’t put down and I constantly wanted more.Whimsical Writing Scale: 4The main female character is once again Elena.
I liked her, but not nearly as much.Kick-Butt Heroine Scale: 4The main male characters are Damon and Stefan.
I love The Vampire Diaries and I feel like this was where the series really started to flesh out.
then dogs start attacking people and things start going really crazy.But in the end elena finds out that damon could be good and they find out the Other power is Katherine!
She decides to kill stefan and damon and elena.
Something has come to the town and elena tells bonnie how to stop it but she needs stefan.
Anyways the bad guy is Klaus and he wants stefan dead and to suffer bc he cant kill elena whos killed his precious katherine.
But stefan and damon and matt and bonnie and meredith and caroline and with the help of ghost elena the bad guy goes bye bye.
In fact, I am not quite sure why LJS decided to continue on with this rather weak series 15 years later.While I enjoyed "The Struggle" and "The Fury," the series went downhill in "Dark Reunion." Not to give anything away, I think the ending of "Dark Reunion" was crazy and incoherent, it came out of nowhere, nothing was explained and had too many ideas never introduced in previous books.
In my opinion, this series should have ended on a high note with "The Fury."From what I've heard, the new 5th book in "Vampire Diaries" series "Nightfall" is even more bizarre than "Dark Reunion." I think I will stay away from it, just don't want to taint my opinion of LJS any more.
The plot really got crackling, and I liked how the characters worked together to try to deal with their problems.
I liked the way her changes and problems were handled.
Bonnie remains my favourite character in the series, with her sense of humour and determination.
I also liked the addition of Alaric.
This series has much of what the Twilight saga lacks--real peril, tension, consequences, and satisfying closure regarding certain problems.
The central romance isn't as strong here as it is in Twilight, and I'm fine with that for the most part.
None of this series' major male characters come close to being as interesting as Jacob Black.
This was alright, not as fun as the first. It had it's moments with a nice creepy big baddie (although no explanation as to why one of the "old ones" would be wearing a tattered rain coat???) But the end fell apart for me, I'm sure it was intended to seem like Bonnie coming into her powers- but seemed a lot more like an easy way out for the author to bring characters she liked back. Ehhh. When this author is good, it's like watching classic Buffy, but unfortunately when she falters, you're left with some wishy washy crap.
This book has some realistic attributes that really tie the story together.
The characters that are from the first book are the same but they go through different changes and life experiences.
After a tragic event that happens people start to get away from Mystic Falls till they recover from the event.
I give this book a four out of five starts.
The reason for the rating is that there are too many important and big events that happen in the book, but it does keep the reader very intrigued.
A supernatural twist to an everyday person's life always makes a book intriguing.
The story remains fast paced from the beginning to the end making it even easier to complete than the first three.This book is very fast paced and full of action through every turn.
It's almost likely they could have cut her out of the story completely and it still would have been just fine, except for a few major points to help progress the plot.The one small statement I would like to make that does compare against the TV SERIES is that I swear Matt always gets the short end of the stick.
I'm going to divide this review into two parts, since it's actually two books in one :)I think I liked the Fury more than I liked Dark Reunion, because Elena was such a Mary Sue in the forth book I almost wanted to cry. (view spoiler)[ The woman was -dead- during almost the entire forth book and she still saves everyone. And then get back to life to be with her friends and the man she loved the most. So realistic (hide spoiler)].In the Fury, Elena changes after some sort of dark force kills her.
I'm going to divide this review into two parts, since it's actually two books in one :)I think I liked the Fury more than I liked Dark Reunion, because Elena was such a Mary Sue in the forth book I almost wanted to cry.
(hide spoiler)]I gave this books 3.5 stars because I enjoyed reading Damon, and I liked the ending and a part of me was hoping that Dark Reunion would be as good or even better, but nothing but disappointment was waiting for me.Stefan barely functions at all during the forth book.
In The Fury Elena, alongside her friends Bonnie and Meredith, struggles to control her nature and discover the source of the evil Power that is haunting Fell’s Church.
Damon and Stefan are summoned by Bonnie, Meredith and Matt to face down a powerful villain, who is determined to have Elena for his own.I enjoyed Volume 1 of THE VAMPIRE DIARIES well enough, my biggest complaint being that the heroine Elena was very hard to take to.
I like this book way better than the first one, although I still want Damon and Elena to be together.I don’t really get it, Damon is such a nice nice guy why did Elena fell in love with Stefan?
I want to read the next volume, I want to find out if there’s a chance that Elena would fall out of love from Stefan and realize that the one she loves is Damon.I think it’s sad that Damon has always been the one who’s left behind, the one who never felt his love was reciprocated.
In #4, as frosting on the cake (one presumes), they manage to resurrect her after defeating the next big threat.As I said, these are pretty terrible, and while they're amusing if you are looking for something to mock, I am kind of going to have to recommend that if you want something better constructed, you should watch the TV show instead.
While the storyline and character descriptions vary slightly, I am finding it thoroughly entertaining.With that said The Fury and Dark Reunion are no exception.
Ultimately, it is therefore no surprise that the resurrected book series is by no means a short journey.If I had to compare which volume I "liked" the best, I would choose this one out of the first two, but having said that my enjoyment of The Fury and Dark Reunion would not have been whole without the setting establishment and character development found in the first volume.
I was shocked with the differences between the first two books and the show but even more so with these.As with the first two what I loved about the books is that there are things which are hinted at in the show but never really crop up.
Getting to read about these things in real detail is a great thing, a way to make you see what the show is really missing out on.
After how big of a deal was made of the evils in the books the characters really did seem to come out much better than they should have, overcoming it in an overly simple way.
Plus you’re getting two books in one!
This was as good as the other books in the series.
I will admit i was shocked to discover that Kathrine was the Other Power, i honestly thought she was dead and in the past.
I thought it was interesting having the second part of this book- Dark Reunion, mainly in Bonnie's POV.
Don't get me wrong i'm glad she's alive, again, but how exactly did that happen?
It's pretty obvious that he likes her, and it's good to see that he's finally getting over Elena.
I'm interested to see what happened in the next book in this series.
In the 3rd book "The Fury", Elena died, came back as a vampire, and had all the narcissistic plots evolved around her...
In the 4th book “The Dark Reunion”, the gang, sans Elena, battled the evil force.
[Finally, a character died and should stay dead.] Next thing you know, a flash from the sky blinded everyone and guess what, our beloved Elena returned as a normal human girl again [sigh…I’m an idiot for reading this series…]Have to give myself prop for enduring this book series.
Thank goodness the TV series revamped the characters (with less emphasis on how gorgeous the people look) and reinvented the whole storyline.
Well, if I only read books of this caliber, I'd probably hit triple digits in a year.
;) I read this (a two book omnibus) in a day, without spending the day reading, so for people looking for an easy read, this is it.
I'm not sure if this was a trilogy that accidentally became a quarter, but it sure felt like it.
It was a little bit like the author decided that the ending of book 3 was "too tragic" and decided to put a bandaid on it.
A bandaid that also included Civil War soldiers fighting on the same side.
Methinks she could've scrapped the last book entirely.
This book was far from perfect, and it was bad, but it was also amusing? I don't know. I've read so many bad books, that this one seems kind of harmless. I don't know.More articulate review to come?
I have too many other books lying around waiting to be read for me to waste anymore time right now on this one, seeing how it's not holding my interest at all.I love,love,LOVE the show... so maybe that's why I'm having a bit of a hard time really feeling this one. As always, TEAM DAMON!!!!
4.5
As things unfold, and the spirit of Honoraria Fell (or whatever her name is – really, that name confused me) comes back from the dead to warn the citizens of Fell’s Church, Elena and her friends must once again face the forces of evil and save their town.The Reunion starts off on a different note.
Bonnie, you go girl, and you might turn out to be my second favorite character after all.SPOILERS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.Probably because I’ve seen the TV Series, but it was clear from the start of The Reunion that Klaus was going to be the villain of this story, and that Elena was coming back.
i have read some other books of this series and i kind of liked the first two books and hated a later one, so this here is kind of in the middle.
there is tension, there is good suspense and there are some characters i actually like and felt compelled to read on to see what is happening.
it's not even explained, it's just like: hullo, i'm back then.
and now it's all smiles and dances and no one cares how this happened!
i should be through with teenage vampire literature, and then i still read another one, haha!
