https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16718.Gun_With_Occasional_Music
Can he find the killer before he runs out of karma and winds up in the deep freeze?If Raymond Chandler and Philip K.
Dick spent an evening together doing hard drugs, this would be the book that would result.
Lethem weaves together the sci-fi and noir elements together so tightly that an evolved kangaroo doesn't seem out of place after his first appearance.The world of Gun, with Occasional Music, is a bleak totalitarian version of a future California.
A scientist named Twostrand invented a process to create evolved bipedal animals out of ordinary ones like kittens, kangaroos and sheep.
The style and voice and plot are pure Raymond Chandler, set in a weird future of talking kangaroos and mind-altering drugs. It's a wild ride that's largely successful, though not as ambitious as other futuristic genre mash-ups (for example, China Mieville's The City and The City), in part because it hews pretty closely to a standard Chandler-esque plot and in part because the futuristic elements aren't quite as developed. Still, there are moments of sheer brilliance here.
Chandler, Dick and all the other genre-y hard-boiled "The statuesque blonde had to pick my doorway to stand in and suck out all of my secondhand smoke before I could get hard" stuff I hate called and reminded me that I try to never read this kind of thing.
Or is that the questions?Naivete called and it wanted its easyness back.
My life called and said that it wanted itself back from me.A tragic waste of time (yes!
Okay, why?Lethem wanted to throw in shit like talking kangaroos and people on drugs like Acceptol and Forgettol.
Video reviewManages to offer some of the most unforgettable world-building I've ever read without pausing the action for more than a few words at a time. Offers an absurd dystopian future that's just absurd enough to be convincing. Fuses hardboiled with scifi as seamlessly as to be unfair. Rocks.
Lethem's Conrad Metcalf is a well-executed Philip Marlowe cover song with just a little bit of record scratching thrown into the background for texture.On the other hand, those same columnist quotes, blurbs, and reviewers all seem to liken Lethem to Philip K.
It's a bit of a stretch, some optimistic name-dropping to match up Lethem's mystery/noir heritage with some similarly classic science fiction antecedent.
-- substitute Jim Henson-esque "evolved" animals for Mugwumps but otherwise that's it, right down to Peter Weller as Conrad Metcalf.Or maybe Punk's review has got it down: "It's Blade Runner meets Who Framed Roger Rabbit?"Where was I?
And any book that says both "In Los Angeles it's illegal to know what you do for a living" and "Tell him next time he wants to talk to me, don't send a marsupial" should be in everyone's library.This character develops, is one thing somewhat new: he loses his early self-consciousness about his metaphors, and eventually solidifies enough to end a chapter with the brilliant line: "It was time to stop fucking around." The love scene says: "The thing I wanted wasn't lost in the past at all, and it never had been.
A self I should have been, but wasn't.
“Sometimes it’s better not to think in questions, but I can’t seem to get out of the habit.” ― Jonathan Lethem, Gun, With Occasional MusicScience fiction slams into a hard-boiled, noir pulp (imagine 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' written by Chandler and directed by David Lynch'). Fun, quick and in parts even close to brilliant. Lethem is one of those writers I'd stamp with "Most Likely To Disappoint Me". He has a ton of potential, but far too often I see that potential sizzle away. Most of that energy, however, was captured in this book.
I can come up with my own reasons for most of these things, just take gene therapy, bioengineering, and cloning and project it forward twenty years, but it would have been nice if the story could have given me a hint to their origins in this fictional universe.Above all, the novel is a mystery, though a failed one.
The mystery plot is weak, but the universe Lethem created makes up for the lackluster detective story.The book is funny but disturbing, playful but violent.
It's not so funny." Exactly.
The only thing that comes close are the bizarro titles I've read this year, but this has the extra bonus of being three times the length of most of those books.Conrad Metcalf, PI (Private Inquisitor), lives in a world where conversation is frowned upon, and asking questions is permitted only by professional Inquisitors.
Dick's vision".I was also reminded at times of Jack O' Connell's "Quinsigamond" series of futuristic crime thrillers:  Word Made Flesh,  Box Nine,  Wireless (Quinsigamond #2), and  The Skin Palace.This novel is set in near-future Oakland.
Your karma card gets punched (or demagnetized) and you lose karma credits.
"You killed her", I suggested."I don't remember," he said.
You loved her and you killed her."..."His eyes cleared and his jaw set.
The building around us was quiet, deathly quiet, and outside my window the night was like a dark nullification of the existence of the city.
Nobody ever stopped the creatures to ask them where they were going - no one wanted to know.
that all seems window dressing, a spin on what is primarily a detective story.
lots of what i would consider the speculative elements don't actually seem to go anywhere -- why is text outlawed?
i never did understand the society that the story spins out in -- these sci-fi elements don't seem to signify.
a good beach book, i think.
i'd give it 3.5 stars but i can't get excited enough about it to give it 4 -- it's good writing but something about his voice seemed a little smarmy at times, perhaps because it was his first novel?
Gum-shoe Conrad Metcalf is a Private Inquisitor, once an Inquisitor (Police with wide ranging & draconian powers), who consolidate their power to completely control the populace at large.
The populace are further controlled by drugs, free of charge.
My guess was he'd been that better man as recently as a couple of weeks ago.” *** Metcalf is hired to follow Celeste, the wife of a prominent & influential doctor.
Dick's vision, Chandler's wit & I would add Dashiell Hammett's hard-boiled aesthetic, with a touch of Orwell's 1984/Animal Farm.
Or are we supposed to believe his attitude at the end of the book -- which made no sense -- was in some way related to not being a full, complete male?
(view spoiler)[In the few years he was asleep, he watched society degrade drastically, including near complete transformations of the few people he knew from before.
And we are supposed to believe he was okay with going back in the freezer and reemerging years later again, with some naive idea it may somehow get better on its own?
(hide spoiler)]Don't get the idea I hated this book from my above criticism.
The story is a slab of thick noir starring the every-P.I. Metcaff.
Letham casts the heavy as an evolved kangaroo, and his world also features 3-foot tall evolved babies.
While this could come off as "Disney Does Noir", there's very little here to remind us of Baby Herman from "Roger Rabbit".
The book is bleak in all the right places, with just enough wise-ass contrariness to offer a little hope.
And the story ends as it should, as the world and its players dictate that it must.
No little green men can save you now.
This is a fantastic book.
The dystopian world Jonathan Lethem builds is presented so casually and is actually one of the most terrifying I've ever read of.
Sure, many aspects of this world have been in other books, but not quite like this.
And there's just something about how this is written that makes you laugh while a chill runs down your spine.
The story itself is interesting with a great ending to the mystery.
But I do think that the most interesting part of this book was the world in which it took place.
And so well written!
HOLY WOW! what a great book! Maybe not 5 stars but most definitely a solid 4 and a half. Don't have the time to expand on that right now but if you like weird, original noir like nothing else you've ever read, then pick this one up! So happy i already have another of his books, Amnesia Moon, which i'll be enjoying very soon!
This is a fun and quick read. But in the days after I finished it, I found that my impression took a bit of a dip as I pondered it, and it lost its four-star rating in the process.But first, a curiosity: this is the second off-beat mystery novel set in Oakland that I've read recently. The other one,  Swing: A Mystery  by Rupert Holmes, isn't SciFi at all, but also involves a musical theme which is even more central to the plot.As the blurb and other reviews have remarked, Gun, with Occasional Mu
But in the days after I finished it, I found that my impression took a bit of a dip as I pondered it, and it lost its four-star rating in the process.But first, a curiosity: this is the second off-beat mystery novel set in Oakland that I've read recently.
Dick is best known for confronting questions of identity and existence, which Lethem never taps into here.
(But see postscript, below.)What we have here is a basic noir detective story set in an uncertain time with some scifi elements.
Something happened before this story took place that re-branded police investigators are "inquisitors", eliminated written journalism, and conditioned the population to feel uncomfortable about asking questions?
I've never read Jonathan Lethem.
The story was a good, hard-boiled detective tale.My problem with the book were varied.
The big one was some silly science fiction concepts that, to me, made no sense.
Another science fiction thing that makes no sense is their using cryogenic freezing to "punish" criminals.
On the upside, the main character, Conrad Metcalf, a Private "Inquisitor," is a man of firm moral convictions that is hell-bent on finding the truth.
But unlike the other Inquisitors in the story, at least Metcalf hunts for the truth until the bitter end.
A nice little mixture of the standard down-on-his-luck detective story and the dystopian science fiction future setting, with some humor mixed in - what's not to like, right?
Lethem gives us this cobbled-together society with evolved animals, "evolved" babies, this wonderful mixture of government-issue chemicals that pretty much everyone imbibes with regularity, and a karma-tracking system - but why?
World-building shouldn't be at the expense of story, but if you're going to come up with some quirky new future society, it pretty much ruins the effect if you just throw a bunch of random crap together and don't bother to explain how it got that way.Also?
Like Morgan's Takeshi Kovacs, this is detective story set in scifi setting with some dystopian flavor (all descendent of Asimov's Baley-Olivaw)--that makes it part of the nerd-boiled sub-genre.I suppose nerd-boiled fiction isn't really for me.
The resulting elixir combines the drawbacks of both and, having too little space for development, edits away the benefits of either.
(I still like Asimov, just because, though.)Recommended for those who pick the scabs off other people's lives, neophyte gunsels, and people who look over-age.
Jonathan Lethem, an obsessive reader of the sloppy but exhilaratingly inventive Phillip K.
Dick, began his writing career with a period of somewhat less sloppy but still exhilaratingly inventive science fiction of his own.
Not to say that Lethem's sci-fi is better than Dick's but that at his best, his prose is a little more even, his concepts a little more tightly executed.
As Lethem's first novel, its reach may slightly exceed its grasp (hmmm, perhaps in a predictably Dick-like manner afterall), but it's still a very auspicious start.
I read this as part of my challenge to Read Around the World as documented in my blog: http://highlanddrive.blogspot.com/This time I went to Oakland, California (where I was born!) This, I think, is not the Oakland of my birth.
It's an Oakland where you need a license to ask other people questions.
It's an Oakland where drugs are not only legal, but de rigeur.
It's an Oakland were "evolution therapy" has made not only intelligent animals, but also intelligent toddlers, or "babyheads".
(Very creepy.)Into all of this, we find Conrad Metcalf, a private "inquisitor".
That means he can ask people questions and investigate things.
Yes, there is a quote that starts this book off by Raymond Chandler, and yes, it is written in that hard-boiled detective style, and yes it is set in the future and deals with individuality and choice, which brings up all of the Dick references, but this is a book that more than anything is channeling the lovechild of Huxley and Orwell.
Like Huxley and Orwell, this is the tension, that loathing of the normal people and their vices mixed with that desire to be them, that complicity that accompanies the desire to buck.
I tried about eight times last night to post my review, but lost the text every single time.
I think I'll just start mailing in my reviews, eh?
I really love film noir, though I haven't so frequently read the pulpy literature variety.
The evolved animals and karma are such a bizarre, neat concept that I'd really like to see more novels in this particular world.
Walter Surface, the other grizzled old inquisitor, seems like a super cool protagonist for a follow-up novel.Alas, it having been more than twenty years since it's release - that's probably not happening.
Then again, I haven't read up on Lethem's work since then...

So, because of being a detective-noir fan, I have been wanting to read this for a while. A dystopian future world detective story with sentient animals and karma points.... sounded right up my alley, literature-wise.The gritty detective story was there...a complicated cheating spouse turning to murder scenario with enough complication to hit the right notes.However, I found myself questioning the world-building a lot. Was there a reason for baby-head humans, kangaroo gangsters and gorilla detectives? Rabbits at the dentist office made sense, but I couldnt see why they existed in the first place...3 stars for me!
This first novel is very good noir science fiction detective mystery novel with some time travel and non human characters, from the then unknown Lethem, who has gone on to become a big novelist.Try it if you like original science fiction coupled with a mystery and with a detective as the main character.
Fizzes along as a nice blend of detective noir and future dystopia. Some nice concepts such as musical guns and musical news broadcasts. Not quite as mind-blowing linguistic wise as "Motherless Brooklyn" but a pretty decent debut.
Really sharp cross-genre sci-fi mystery - enjoyed it immensely.
(Admit it, as you live your life today, don't you find yourself thinking sometimes, gee, this is exactly like that scene in *blank* movie, or, this event in my life should have dramatic music right now - which I've often wondered is inadvertently reshaping our actual memories and thinking of events away from reality towards movie cinematic drama ....however, Lethem is going to a darker place than this.) Controlled thinking by social means might result in having a world of robotic people, which is where Lethem's world appears to be going, so I couldn't understand with the level of genetic manipulation already being used by the authorities why things weren't totally locked down already.
