https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6779.Six_Not_So_Easy_Pieces
Let me start with a one-sentence summary: this is a thoroughly enjoyable little book explaining, in a beautifully intuitive and holistic way, the main core features of Einstein's relativity, without getting bogged down into too much mathematical detail.
However, having said that, I would still recommend this book even to a more intermediate level reader, as the way how Feynman manages to get to the core of things with lucid rigor, and simplicity, and how he manages to holistically connect all the different aspects of the physics he is explaining, is something magic and a great pleasure to experience.
All of our ideas in physics require a certain amount of common sense in their application; they are not purely mathematical or abstract ideas. It is difficult to review these books, as their titles are so descriptive. This book, as well as its companion, Six Easy Pieces, is a book that can judged by its cover. But this is a book reviewing site, after all, so review them I must.As you probably know, this book, like its predecessor, consists of excerpts from Feynman’s legendary Caltech lectures.
The best way to think of them are as Feynman samplers; you will not be able to eat your fill, but the books leave a pleasant taste in your mouth.I don’t mean to suggest that you won’t learn anything from this book; far from it.
Perhaps the best example of this is his explanation of simple machines in the first volume; he jumps past all the rules we learn in grade school, and explains it all in terms of conservation of energy.
You will by no means be given a rigorous understanding of relativity from this book; but Feynman does, in his inimitable way, give you a “feel” for it.
Bu durum fiziğe mesafeli olanlar kadar, ortalama fizik bilgisine sahip olanlar açısından da böyle.
Kolaydan zora doğru sıralanmış 6 bölümden oluşan bu kitap, üst düzey fizik bilgisine sahip olmayan okuyucuların da bu hayli soyut kavramlar hakkında az buçuk fikir sahibi olabilmesini sağlıyor.
Bunda beceriksizce yapılmış çevirinin de payı olabilir belki.Sonuç olarak, çağımızın en önemli kuramlarından biri olan İzafiyet Teorisi hakkında genel fikir sahibi olmak isteyen herkese bu kitabı okumalarını tavsiye ederim.
Fizik ile teması hangi seviyede olursa olsun temel bilgilere erişmek isteyen herkesin bu kitaptan bir şeyler alabileceğine inanıyorum.
C'è chi ha il dono di rendere facili anche le cose più difficili. Chi è capace di trasmettere poesia tramite le formule di trasformazione. Feynman è capace di tutto questo e anche di più. Un saggio da non perdere se si può contare su solide basi matematiche e fisiche.
It is a foundational ingredient of the very universe in which we live." On that note, it is encouraging for many readers that this book offers a great opportunity to take that extra step to learn the mathematical constructions for the effects of Lorentz transformations, Einstein's equations, relativistic dynamics; equivalence of mass and energy, Lorentz contraction and transformation of time.
An event (physical reality) is defined by both space and time because the position of an object is characterized by the time.
The "now" is an idea or a concept of our mind, it is not physically definable at the moment, and we have to wait to observe it separated by distance in (light) time.
In contrast to "Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher", there was a lot more mathematical formalism that was a little tough to follow, but with patience could be understood.
The six lectures are put together so you can better understand Einsteins' special and general relativity.
The book really made me appreciate the power of mathematics and interpretation to determine the nature of the real world.
I actually found out how they determined E=mc^2!
The book also had Feynman's characteristic humor and crazy imagination to illustrate really tough physics and mathematics.
I really wish Feynman's entire lecture set wasn't so expensive :-(.
This book is aimed at teaching Special Relativity to students who have high school algebra (thus can handle a co-ordinate transform) and Newtonian mechanics.
Simple enough, but almost every physicist today says relativistic mass is misleading, and he himself admits that it “surprisingly enough, is rarely used.”For example, he tells us that the Caltech synchrotron requires a magnetic field 2,000 times stronger than would be expected on the basis of Newton’s laws to deflect the increased mass of a rapidly moving proton.
The rate of time flow in a gravitational field increases, so we should send the projectile as high as possible.
Whew! This one was not-so-easy. My Algebra, Trigonometry, and Vector Analysis skills are very rusty. However, that being said... the ONLY way to see the ultimate beauty of Einstein's theories is to "do the math."Feynman is awesome.
Not a hard read because it's broken up into small chunks, but hard to absorb--heavy on derivations which are sometimes interesting but require a lot of brainpower. Hopefully though continued exposure I absorb just a little at a time. Did have some fun re-revelations about relativity.
The book like its successor is an amazing introduction to the wonders of physics.
However, due to the subject of this book, it does demand a certain aptitude and effort from the reader (it is not-so-easy as the name honestly suggests).
If you have a background in Science, you can really reap the benefits of this book if you are willing to scribble a few equations onto your notebook.
But even if you aren't able to understand the mathematics of the concepts discussed, the consequence of the theories discussed is spectacular and it is worth knowing about the weird ways in which nature works.
For all of those who took introductory college level physics courses once upon a time, and wish to know more about the development of the science during the 20th century, this is a very authentic introduction.
Part of his original "Lectures on Physics," written and delivered for an audience of undergraduate college students, this shorter work covers some of the most important ideas and discoveries of modern physics including Einstein's special theory of relativity, space time, and gravitational equivalence.
Persistent references to other parts of the original work sometimes leave information wanting, but generally the concepts covered are well explained in a creative but direct manner intended to shed light on difficult ideas without being convoluted or contradictory.
Feynman designed these lectures so that, he hoped, physics non-majors would be able to grasp the concepts, while majors would get a sense of the excitement of physics and maintain their interest.There is a lot of math in the book, but one can ignore most of it (as I did), and try to understand the ideas from Feynman's very clear and simple language.
But, simple as Feynman's language is, these concepts are hard for even a smart person to get his or her head around.
We have grown up in a 3-dimensional world that we understand somewhat, and it's not easy to grasp relativity, curved space, of space-time, let alone curved space-time.
Essential reading for relativity enthusiasts (of the weekend variety, I might add- the more academic ones might be better served by lectures given by the wild-haired maestro himself).
Requires, and assumes, knowledge of Std XII Maths and Physics- you'll be pretty lost if you don't know what the hell differentials and integrals are.
Though written in Feynman's casual, conversational style, the book never fails to make your head spin, and it's fun to put the book down on your chest in the middle of a chapter and think about how your reality ain't so real after all, dude...I swear, science is drugs!
I learned that there are somethings I cannot grasp and sometimes these things are not understandable by most people. I am one of them when it comes to this book. However, the main thing is that I learned that this man was unique in that he was brilliant and could teach also. A most commendable combination in any person....plus he had a sense of humour! I honor the man even though I did not understand most of the book.
Richard Feynman was a brilliant, creative teacher. In this volume he tackles some of the trickier subjects in physics. He starts slowly, even simplistically with a discussion of symmetry and builds one upon the other taking the reader through some relativistic topics and finally concluding with a fantastic description of space-time geometry. In a few short lessons, he showed me what had taken months at university to understand. I wish there were more teachers like him today.
Very appropriate title, especially if one has not read complete lecture series. One more book that needs to re-read.Classic Feynman otherwise.
"The thing is reality itself is fascinating..!!"
What a phenomenal exposition of the mysteries of science..
Vaikka kurssista on tullut fysiikan klassikko, niin omasta mielestään Feynman ei onnistunut opetuksessaan erityisen hyvin.
Kirjan esipuheessa professori Kari Enqvist mainitsee, että eräs hänen haastattelemansa Feynmanin oppilas oli todennut, että Feynmanin saapuessa tuntui kuin Kristus olisi tullut paikalle.Kirjasta ilmenee hyvin Feynmanin laaja-alaisuus ja valtava tietomäärä.
Fysiikan lainalaisuuksien matemaattinen esittely ja niiden kaavojen johtaminen oli kyllä selkeää, mutta siinä määrin vaativaa, että harvalla lukijalla on niiden omaksumiseen riittäviä taustatietoja.
Vuodelta 1905 peräisin olevasta suppeasta suhteellisuusteoriasta Feynman toteaa, että siinä kumotaan yli 200 vuotta menestyksellisesti sovellettu Newtonin liikelaki, jossa mm.
Feynmanin mukaan Einstein osoitti, että nopeuden kasvaessa massa ei pysykään vakiona vaan kasvaa.
It’s all relativeUnlike the earlier publication, this selection of the Feynmann’s Lectures is focused on a single Physics “piece”.
Chapter after chapter, in a crescendo of complexity, the reader is ushered into one of the most fashionable, while the less understood Physics subject.
The author’s craftiness becomes evident as, starting from vectorial transformations, he demonstrates in an understandable and easy to remember way first the Special, then the General theory of Relativity.
While the editorial work could not erase a couple of reference to some of the Lectures’ chapters, the book is self consistent and works well both as a student support or as a pleasing recreational read.
Insight for non-mathematiciansI've often wanted to understand how mathematics has been used to define laws that are proven, or not, by experiment. I can understand how experiment can find the mass of an electron, for example. But how can a series of equations predict the mass?This book provides just such insight without a lot of heavy mathematics. You should brush up on basics of motion and the calculus of derivatives to make the most of the book, but it's really not required.
This is a very entertaining book by an amazing teacher. As a Physics student, reading this book gave me a great advantage while taking courses on modern Physics. The book is a series of lectures intended for second-year Physics students at Caltech, so do not despair if you cannot grasp every single idea in the book. I highly recommend reading it after reading Six Easy Pieces.
Really accessible book. Similar to QED in terms of level of physics knowledge needed. He did really well with writing for the average lay person. It also has some unique thought experiments for developing an intuition regarding relativity. I especially like the ant on the reverse hot-plate analogy.
This is not easy reading if you're not a physicist or a mathematician. You can likely make it through it and learn things even if you have difficulties with the math. I found it worth the trouble even when it made my head ache.
Writing this review many months after reading the book I find I can't remember how well it worked for me. The book has the same style and accessibility as its predecessor but the maths can be difficult to follow. I think I need to read it again!
Hilaaa diya!!!
This isn't as accessible as Six Easy Pieces (perhaps obviously) but it's still solid Feynman lecturing and a great read for anyone interested in the material.
I listened to the audio, and it was very enjoyable. I'm ordering the paperback so I can go through it again.
Honestly just an increasable book as an introduction to special and general relativity. Would recommend for people that are in high school that are quite advanced or undergraduate students
"Feynman'ın Fizik Dersleri" kitabından çok güzel ağır konulardan alıntıları var. Eğer çok büyük kitaplar okumaya vaktiniz yoksa ve/veya Feynman diline alışmak istiyorsanız güzel kitap.
