https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24724602-flash-boys
Considering this is about my husband, I might be more than a little biased. :)
I was surprised to find that the book was really interesting though, I had no clue about High Frequency Traders or dark pools or even the arrest of Sergey Aleynikov which is honestly absurd.
I think the information was accessible and easy to understand but I don't think it would be interesting to anyone who didn't have some interest in the engineering or math of the whole thing.
I know the whole purpose of the book was to talk about the small group of people trying to change things but I thought all the logistic stuff was the most interesting aspect of the book.
Even back at that time, most sophisticated players in the market knew they’d have better luck breaking their order up, trading chunks here and there at different times and different exchanges as liquidity would allow rather than spooking the market with an order size that was bound to change the equilibrium price in an instant.Q: Yeah, but what about the front-running, where speed demons would take their knowledge of Brad’s intention to buy and go to other exchanges to buy ahead of him, driving up the price and making Brad pay more to get all the shares he wanted?OK, first of all, please use quotes when you use the term front-running.
“Shining a light creates shadows” ― Michael Lewis, Flash Boys There was a temptation to write my review before I had finished reading.
It is a wild west where everyone is getting the shaft, except for the large banks and the high-speed traders.“Every systemic market injustice arose from some loophole in a regulation created to correct some prior injustice.”No one is better at exploring the technical world of money and finance on Wall Street (and in Sports) than Michael Lewis.
There would also be no Flash Boys without Sergey Aleynikov, Brad Katsuyama and Ronan Ryan.“The U.S. financial markets had always been either corrupt or about to be corrupted.”These characters MAKE this book great.
He describes the activities of so-called "High Frequency Trading" (HFT), where buy and sell orders to stock exchanges are intercepted and prevented from occurring at the stated price.
They play a large role in the way big banks earn money from brokers and high frequency traders.The first half of the book gives the background behind HFT, how it operates and why it is allowed, even encouraged by the big banks.
It is the ONLY stock exchange that actually publishes its rules, making the process transparent to investors and brokers.I didn't read this book--I listened to it as an audiobook.
Michael Lewis turns the story of Brad Katsuyama and IEX into the Hero's Journey to the promised land.In typical fashion, the story starts as a plot-based thriller, becomes an incomprehensible mystery of high frequency stock trading, then a parable of what's gone wrong with civilization, and finally it ends on a bleak note of hope: that the good guys will come out ahead and bring all of society with them, like has always happened in the past.The biggest problem for me is that, what Michael Lewis is known for, explaining crazy complicated things in a way anyone can understand, he doesn't really even attempt here.
On Reading & RatingFor my money (which, since I'm neither a Wall Street tycoon, nor a Russian coding genius, isn't a whole heck of a lot) this isn't  Michael Lewis'  best work. My reading experience was a mix of fascination and frustration. Why the latter? Lewis covers (and condemns) a whole bunch of different things. Agreement aside, as a human who reads books, this lack of distinction is what resulted in the bulk of my star-docking (I'd give it a  2.5/5  if half-stars were street legal aro
evoked some pretty heated internal debates between Mara and Other Mara I'm gonna let you know where I'm coming from (by all means, feel free to skip ahead—I'll even spoiler-ize this section it all the more skipable for you).(view spoiler)[My knowledge of markets and how they work in general is definitely skewed.
That being said, I'm also learning that people are willing to pay you (despite my protests) for accessing and compiling information that's out there for free because, well, you know how to get it, and they simply don't have time.
Of course, there are different types of information asymmetry when it comes to financial markets.
So yes, some can play the market and make no losses whatsoever for years on end, precisely because they take no risk.Go here for a detailed summary, it is worth understanding: http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/S...Now, this is an interesting concept and it is also a story that needed to be told, but it did not require these many pages to do it in.
Most of Lewis' books have stuck to the story of one guy or a group of people working their way through a maze, being very clever doing so, and coming out with game-changing revelations.
For the first time in Wall Street history, the technology existed that eliminated entirely the need for financial intermediaries.
Whilst definitely an interesting read and providing the right amount of shock factor, I felt like I was just skimming some areas without digesting any of the information.
Maybe this is to do with my own limited understanding, but it felt like the core story was dragged and repeated to reach the subsuquent length.
This overtelling led to any feeling of shock at the corruption detailed becoming muted and my enjoyment waned a little as the book progressed.
This story is definitely one worth reading but be pre-warned that there is a fair amount of repitition.
definitely Lewis's best book since Moneyball or Liar's Poker, though I'm waiting to talk to some high-frequency trading friends before i make final judgments.
definitely a hell of a book to read here in Lower Manhattan, in the shadow of Wall Street, before going in for an interview at Goldman Sachs.
nonetheless, fascinating.update so i talked to some coworkers who were at Two Sigma (another HFT firm), and they had some pretty good counterarguments, mainly that spreads have been tightened almost to zero, and that many techniques are simply the logical conclusion of natural trading, and have simply made intractable bad practice.
In today’s world, the information he shares about high-frequency trading (HFT) on Wall Street feels dated before it arrives on the page…before we read it…before we can act on it.
Katsuyama gathered a collection of folks no one could make up in their wildest dreams and sought ways to hamper the effects of high-frequency trades on investors.
Three days after the publication of Lewis’ book, Attorney General Holder announced the DOJ has an on-going investigation into high-frequency trading on stock exchanges.
Reading this book I found myself at first laughing with Lewis, then laughing at Lewis, and then wanting to throw the book in the trash, because he gets the history of HFT completely wrong.
Instead of listing my complaints I'd direct readers to better analyses, like these from Manoj Narang, Cliff Asness, Matt Levine, Matthew Phillips and Michael Peltz.Lewis would do well to heed the advice of (his cousin) Nicholas Lemann, former dean of Columbia University's journalism school, on the care that need be paid to "framing" a narrative—which Lewis completely botched in Flash Boys.
http://www.ialjs.org/wp-content/uploa...
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BATS_Glo...
Lewis’ protagonist, so to speak, is Brad Katsuyama, a broker at Royal Bank of Canada (eh?), who saw the unfairness of this system and sought to redress the balance with a new model stock market called IEX.
It’s inspiring that guys like Katsuyama would try something like this especially as many people have the idea of Wall Street being a place of unrepentant greed, ego and corruption - which it largely is.
Flash Boys wasn’t a book that spoke to me very deeply but I’m glad there are guys like Michael Lewis and Brad Katsuyama out there, using their wits and skills to keep fuckers like Goldman Sachs in line.
Michael Lewis humanizes his expose of high-frequency trading and the state of the U.S. stock market by focusing on a few key characters and their stories.
Highly recommended reading - I'll bet most people aren't aware of what is going on in our markets and how scary it is.One tiny footnote on page 164 that cracked me up - when the "hero" of this book, Brad Katsuyama, creates a new trading exchange dedicated to institutionalizing fairness in the markets, he names it the Investor's Exchange, which was shortened to IEX.
To avoid that confusion, they created another." (quoted verbatim from the book).
I gave this a decent go - about 25% of it - but I just couldn't get past the fact it's just way too slow and much too boring. It's also very technical, in terms of explaining how high-frequency trading in the US equity market was rigged. And though the author takes time to try to explain it, the explanation is so protracted and woven into discussions between various brainiacs that I lost the will long before I fully understood what was going on.Not for me I'm afraid, I gave up on this one.
The argument goes something like "it isn't fair that a bunch of anonymous brokers are gaming the system and not letting RBC gouge my client as much as I used to".
Look trading isn't "free", but it is a lot cheaper than it used to be.
It would be nice if wall street firms and brokers were more honest with their clients about the rebates and real trading costs but as Adam Smith said "It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest"
Fascinating, terrifying account of how the equities markets have been systematically undermined in the last 7 years. Essential reading to understand the state of the public markets today.
What he eventually discovered was what is currently referred to as high-frequency trading (HFT), a new up-and-coming Wall Street technology that enabled a very select few who possessed it to gain an unfair advantage over those who didn’t have the technology.I won’t pretend to completely understand the technical stuff (Lewis does a decent enough job explaining it all in layman’s terms, although one probably needs a degree in computer science to fully understand it), although it essentially deals with the use of fiber-optic cables that give HFT traders a jump of mere milliseconds and nanoseconds on big-money trades.
Michael Lewis has gotten to the absolute core of how the stock market works, to the nitty-gritty of the little black boxes that make the flashing connections, to the advantages and disadvantages of fibre optic over microwave signals.
Lewis has worked as a broker and has shone light on the dealings which the brokerage firms and the big Wall Street banks keep hidden from investors.
Flash boys, high-frequency traders, need the speed of a signal faster than light.
Surely things have changed in part due to the investigation done by Michael Lewis in researching for his book Flash Boys.
The author is great at explaining complicated technical subjects and telling a good story around them.
In the middle of the book I was so angry at the rip-off of investors, I was thinking of writing letters.
But by the end of the book, I didn’t have to.
Some good things happened.
And now, various government agencies are investigating the problems described in the book - SEC, FBI, CFTC, FINRA, NY attorney general, and US attorney general.The audiobook narrator Dylan Baker was excellent.DATA:Narrative mode: 3rd person.
Setting: 2002 - 2013 U.S. Book copyright: 2014.
(The result, of course, was the Reuters agency, now Thomson-Reuters Corporation.) By using obscure techniques to learn the intentions of unsuspecting investors milliseconds ahead of everyone else, HFT traders move the market up or down almost instantaneously, buying the investors’ stock at lower prices or selling to them at higher ones.
(An HFT firm doesn’t invest; it only trades, ending each day with no stock in its name.)Lewis’ hero is a brilliant young Canadian named Brad Katsuyama, who for many years was head of electronic trading at the little-known Royal Bank of Canada office on Wall Street, earning $2 million a year.
while this was an interesting and well-written read, it seems to be severely lacking in evidence and more akin to an attempt to shift public opinion for the benefit of certain interested parties.
the starting premise is that brad thinks hft is bad, and from there it's just assertions and statements like "see, we found out this or that kind of thing is happening, i told you hft is bad" without really explaining what is bad.
make lots of money
What is more, the author not only points out the problem and the culprit but he also offers an effective solution and a glimpse to a promising future.2) Well-explained.Concepts discussed in the “Flash Boys” are technical and quite complex; however, Lewis explains most of the things very clearly and uses a lot of illustrative examples so that even the readers without any previous knowledge of or interest in the stock market (yup, that’s me!) can understand and appreciate the book.3) Compelling.Who would have thought that a business book can also be quite entertaining and full of colorful characters?
Brad Katsuyama & his motley bunch of Wall Street misfits - an eccentric outfit by all means - decided it was time for things to set right, to give everyone a fair chance to prosper in the market.
Even the sorry tale of the Russian computer programmer Sergei Aleynikov, whose arrest made headlines a few years ago (and eventually inspired the writing of this book), is symptomatic of the underlying problems of the US financial framework.Even though "Flash Boys" is not the kind of book I'd usually read, Michael Lewis' powers of narration are what make it a triumph.
These are so valuable that they are hidden well away and guarded by heavily armed men, and not even the experts know exactly what happens in these dark pools.Those that do know won’t tell either, as they are making an absolute fortune.This market, that we have been assured is open and fair, is rigged.
Lewis writes about the fight that he went through to become accepted in Wall Street, how banks still refused to trade with them, even when explicitly told to do so by their customers as they couldn’t take a cut from their high frequency traders.Lewis does have a way of getting complex financial shenanigans across, and in this book he has a good go at it.
Through sinister sounding things like "front running", "rebate arbitrage" and "dark pool arbitrage", which Lewis describes clearly for lay readers, high frequency traders have taken billions from ordinary investors and made the stock market an even more forbidding and unfair place than it already was.Sometimes I wonder why anyone, who is not an insider, invests in the stock market.
In fact, I resent that unproductive middlemen take a piece of everything that I invest.More than that, I am insulted that the strategies employed by high frequency traders are defended as if HFT perform some sort of service.
I found this incredibly readable for a book set in the Wall Street and having to do with high frequency trading.
I read it as part of my Good Reads Challenge: https://www.goodreads.com/user_challe...I found this book as a choice in the Kindle Unlimited library so I decided to try it.
The author not only makes things clear and readable, but he also makes people that I wouldn't normally find sympathetic and likable exactly that.
I was flabbergasted that there are ethical and open and transparent people working in Wall Street.
Brad Katsuyama is a smart and admirable man.I was pleasantly surprised by this book and would recommend it to others.
I got this book in the mail on Wednesday evening and finished it on Thursday evening.
Once again Michael Lewis hits a home run.
I did not understand high-frequency trading (HFT) but this book makes it easy to understand not just its functioning but its consequences for investors and the economy.
As usual Lewis unfolds the story as personal narratives of key players.
As with The Big Short, he focuses more on the heroes than on the villains (there are many).
The most damning indictment is of the SEC and its inability or unwillingness to protect investors.This is a must read!
This is an absolutely fantastic read. I know nearly nothing about the stock markets but Michael Lewis explains how a lot of people who actually work for Wall Street and should know how it works also don't have any idea what's going on. He shows how separate people working for separate firms all came to the same realization and, better than that, actually did something about it. A great narrative with great characters and a great message. Enjoyed it immensely.
Отличная книга про то, как снимают стружку с инвесторов на рынке. Помогает избавиться от иллюзий, веры в громкие названия и красивые объяснения.
