https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16685.The_Cat_Who_Walks_Through_Walls
There is a saying that when pizza is good, it is great, and when it’s bad it’s still pretty good.
This saying may also apply to RAH titles.
This is not one of his greatest, but not bad either, pretty good.
Heinlein's the world as myth concept, imaginative and entertaining is as good as his earlier work, even though this is a product of his later, weirder phase.
Like many of his post 1970 writings, Heinlein had taken a turn towards the bizarre, but if a reader is patient enough a good read can be had.

This was my very first RAH book...the one that got me hooked. I thought it had a cool cover and was in the discount bin so I had just enough for it. I was 15. I couldn't put it down. Since then, I've read almost everything he has written and have loved every single one!
The charismatic protagonist is likable in a James Bond sort of vein, his banter with his girlfriend is punchy, his quirks are endearing.Things start getting weird the moment another female character enters the story.
(Classy!)The story rapidly degenerates into a harem anime with occasional future-wanking ("Look this is a moon rover bus!"), at which point the entire thing shifts from 5th to 1st gear without use of a clutch.
Review from 01:I am a great lover of the words of Heinlein.
But this book has got to be one of his worst.
While it has some very interesting quantum physics threads, and some interesting character as aware entity moments, it does not hold together.
The relationships of the main character and his children (near the end of the book) are confusing and more explicit than needed/wanted.
The 'mysteries' the main character was trying to solve fell apart like wet tissue paper.
I was dissapointed that the ending did not allow resolution of many issues the book tried to explore.
What was heinlein thinking?
The best part of the whole thing, in my opinion, is the lovely book cover.
When it was first published, I remember that cover catching my eye in the book stores and I thought then that I wanted to read it.
I had only read Stranger in a Strange Land at that point and would probably never have touched another RAH book if Cat had been my second.I appreciate that if you read this in your teens or are a die-hard Heinlein fan, your opinion will differ substantially from mine.
Unfortunately RAH’s late fiction doesn’t work for me at all, to my disappointment.Book 208 of my science fiction and fantasy reading project.
WARNING: You must read Heinlein's "The Moon is a Harsh Mistress," "The Rolling Stones," "Time Enough for Love," and "The Number of the Beast" before reading this book.
The Cat Who Walks Through Walls is a volume in the continuing saga of Lazarus Long and what has come to be known as the World as Myth stories.
Because this is World as Myth, there's a lot more to the story than Richard is prepared to believe.
Those of us familiar with (and half in love with) Lazarus Long might be put off by Richard's disdain for the man, but his position is understandable.
As can be expected from Heinlein, there is passing commentary on the governement of the habitat(all privately owned and controlled).
Many characters from other Heinlein novels were incorporated, though it did not feel like a heart-warming visit with old friends.
The author missed some good opportunties to address more legitimate thematic issues such as the nature of humanity (through emergence of consciousness in computers, as he did in The Moon is a Harsh Mistress), the nature of human existance (as he did in Methusela's Children) or just good old sci-fi adventure (many of his novels.)
Ok, I'm only partway through, but I'm going to post my thoughts so far.The first Heinlein book I read was Stranger in a Strange Land, which I found among my mother's book when I was 12.
Updated upon completion of the book: all the sexy stuff faded into the background in the last quarter of the book, which I liked, and the general idea suggested by Heinlein as the explanation for the existence of the multiverse is intriguing...
When I bought this book a couple of weeks ago, I was with two friends, one of whom is a fairly decent sci-fi fan, and the other of whom is a completely nutty sci-fi fan.
Perhaps what my friends remember fondly is the permissiveness of his society - there is plenty of snuggling and kissing and all that sort of stuff (not explicit, of course) that goes on, some of it age-inappropriate, and it is common for men and women to greet each other by kissing passionately (that's with tongues, to you).
His stories, projected through lush language and vivid images, have always given me a chance to escape whatever task I'm doing and invite me to "live" in his world for a bit.
Heinlein takes a romance and tries to stuff it between space opera and detective fiction.
I can't say that this ménage a trois fails, exactly, but I have a feeling that space opera and detective fiction had more fun.
For me, the story is bogged down by the romance, sometimes giving me a feeling that Heinlein wanted to change his approach to storytelling to show that he was able to reach more readers.
It represents yet another installment in the "World As Myth" theme that he used so often later in life, and therefore includes many characters from his older, better works - including, inevitably, Lazarus Long, who continues his long (pun intended) degeneration from the original interesting protagonist of "Methuselah's Children" into an annoying incest-freak, Heinlein surrogate, self-parody (I suspect), and all-around jerk-who-must-be-worshiped-due-to-his-natural-moral-superiority.Still, Heinlein retained his great gift as a storyteller even at this late date in his career.
By this time in RAH's long career - well aware that his time was short, I suppose - he wrote for those familiar with his work, therefore, I have reread all of the novels that are referred to in this one (which has an absolutely great cover, by the way), in order to fully appreciate it.
E. van Vogt, in the sense that Book 1, 2 and 3 come off as if this were a fixup novel made of three semi related shorter works.RAH here is still sharp and full of witty humour.
If you don't know who Lazarus Long happens to be, read my review of my much hated read of Time Enough for Love.
Richard Ames is a guy who went to dinner with his girl and ends up on a chain of really horrible events.The story, however, starts to get really messed up and strange.
I loved Gwen and cannot begin to describe how happy I was to see a female character so well written by Heinlein.
This bothered me for a long time until Gwen and Lazarus get into an exchange with each other.
I have enjoyed some of Robert Heinlein's books, but I struggle with his Luna series.
This book is part of that series.
While there someone comes up to the table and tries to hire Richard as an assassin.
Why the next to last page of course!
Why resolve it sooner?Anyway Richard and Gwen are now on the run after they quickly get married and then they experience disaster after disaster as they try to escape the planet they're on, then the Moon, and finally Earth.
The first 150 pages were good, but then it dissolved into a physics mess.
I remember liking this book less when I read it long ago.
Heinlein's "World As Myth" series doesn't appeal to me and I tend to prefer the older juvenilia and middle novels much more.
The thing is, I've become such a fan of his, and particularly of his wonderful characters, that the opportunity to meet most of the characters from most of his novels again was a happy one.I wouldn't suggest this book for anyone not already a serious Heinlein fan.
I imagine it would be pretty much a failure to any other audience.2012 Reading: All that, but more so.
This is kind of two separate books smooshed together.
The first half is pretty straight-forward space adventures, and then everything gets weird after that.
Not bad, just weird and very separate-feeling from the first half.
This is not uncommon with Heinlein, and it didn't ruin the book or anything, but I did kind of feel betrayed that the first half was somewhat meaningless.
Also, the ending left me hanging more than I would have liked.
I plan on reading the rest of this "series" (having already read Time Enough for Love a year or two ago) so perhaps that will complete the picture for me.
Overall: enjoyable read, but somewhat unsatisfying.
Neskaitāmi personāži, raibi notikumi, un uz beigām mazliet apnika sekot līdzi visām tām laika līnijām un cilpām, kā arī varoņu dīvainajiem radu rakstiem un, kurš ar kuru un kad ir pārgulējis.
Bet, spriežot pēc nobeiguma, arī autoram tas uz beigām bija mazliet apnicis.
Vārdu sakot, Heinleins par savām iemīļotajām tēmām - mūžīgo jaunību, anarhiju, skarbo dzīvi uz Mēness, daudzsievību un daudzvīrību, rudmatainiem cilvēkiem, paralēlām laika līnijām un vispār šī pasaule ir mīts, un viss ir tikai mūsu iedomas.Neskatoties uz daudzsološo nosaukumu, kaķis parādās tikai uz grāmatas beigām.
Un, protams, ka tas ir Šrēdingera kaķis.
Inventive, funny, uncomfortable at times - what was it with Heinlein's "paddle your bottom"/ pubescent girls fetish? - and a little bit hard to remember who is who with all the name changing. In its favour, you would be hard-pressed to call it dull. Plus it was great to catch up with one of my favourite Heinlein characters, Jubal Harshaw. "Front!"
Undecided rating. 5 stars for dialogue. 5 stars for Mike the Computer but Negative 5 for that plot thread never obtaining resolution(??).
That said, there are other Heinlein books that are better overall.
There are too many ties into other books of his, most notably, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, The Number of the Beast, and Time Enough for Love.
So, this book is a little treasure for fans of Heinlein's works.If one hasn't read Heinlein, either start with Moon or one of the juveniles (with the caveat that the juveniles are definitely a product of their time), but if people have read at least the first two of the aforementioned books, they should give it a try.
Yay, it worked again!" Not to mention all the little tidbits that are put in that have nothing whatsoever to do with the story but seem to be horribly important, such as the shriner's fez Ames returns to its owner which is followed with a line of foreshadowing, "And I thought that was the end of it." The next time you hear about the shriner and the fez is at the end of the book, "Oh, by the way, you're charged with this guys' murder, don't go back to Luna any time soon." Then, of course, there's the incest, the mid 40's main character almost having sex with a 13 year old girl (Oh but its ok, she's physically mature, right?!), and the main character spending half the book going, "I'm not doing what you tell me to do even if it is to save the universe because I don't like the way you acted towards me," and then, suddenly, "Oh wait, yeah, I suppose I'll help after all, YAAAAAAAAY!"
Do you know how the cat can walk through walls?
Because he doesn't know he can't.
The first 2/3rds of the book played out like a James Bond novel.
But then starting on page 255 everything changed...no more repartee, no more thrilling chases, no more edge of your seat fight scenes (did finally get to meet that cat though).
But the last chapter saved it and it became a fairly decent book overall.
5 stars for the first 2/3rds, 2 stars for the next 115 pages and 5 stars for the ending.
Abandoned 3/4ths of the way through. Life is too short for this shit.
This was Heinlein's penultimate novel, and is very interesting in the way it fits in with the rest of his works both philosophically and contextually, though it's not nearly as good a novel on its own as most of his others.
The book is part of his final sequence, World as Myth, and attempts to tie in many of earlier works and characters, most notably The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, (curiously) The Rolling Stones, Stranger in a Strange Land, Time Enough For Love, and (unfortunately) The Number of the Beast.
So, this book was going to be a three-star review, and swerved into 4-star territory at the last minute. This is a characteristically weird and fantastic piece of sci-fi from Heinlein, and I think my major problem with it is that I should have read most of his other work before reading this one. There are apparently a number of recurring characters that this book ties together, and I've never met most of them before.
But I don't want to pick up a decent seeming sci fi book only to find it full of nothing more than gratuitous sex and little else, likely designed to shock and titillate.
I think Heinlein has written a couple of decent books I've liked over the years, but generally he's very overrated and he's really a disgusting person.
The thing that made me want to stop reading this book, which I did, was that so many unlikely things happened to Ames and Gwen in a 20 hour period, that it was completely unbelievable.
I'm going through my Heinlein collection trying to decide what, if any, to hold on to and what to toss.
Or perhaps they knew Heinlein was dying (if he were, this is a guess) and so respected him they took the book anyway.
Fast in many places then the action stops to translate the hero into Heinlein's last series, the world as myth which involves a lot of info dumping to bring readers and the hero up to speed.
Then Heinlein ends it on that aforementioned cliffhanger after a final chapter at breakneck speed.
I certainly don't think people should try this book without the first two in the series.
Heinlein uses both - in abundance.Some readers seem offended by the sexual themes in his books, which include incest and polygamy.
Heinlein explores the concept of eliminating ethical concerns via technology so that the entire social structure (including hierarchy as we understand it) can be changed without adverse consequences.
Far from being sexist, I believe Heinlein simply demonstrates the stereotypical and amusing aspects of both mankind and womankind, and how their difference may be combined towards a greater good.When I have read the prequels to this book, I will update this review on The Cat Who Walks Through Walls.
decided to read this because The Moon is a Harsh Mistress is a favorite and this book is sort of related.
The icky Heinlein sex obsession has turned up, in the usual form of young women throwing themselves at an older jerkwit of a protagonist, with shades of incest.
Reports of the late-Heinlein ickiness is why I didn't choose to read the earlier books in the World as Myth series (if it is actually a series) and I may be missing some context.
