https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99052.Masters_of_the_Dew
3 starsThe writing was choppy and I felt like it jumped a lot or it stayed within the same scene for quite some time. That being said, it was a wonderful story on a dream and how one strives for himself and for his people. Manuel believed that the village will have water and worked hard to get it. I really enjoyed the ending!
A masterpiece!!!! A must read when it comes to Haitian literature and culture. Universal themes (race, class, inter generation conflict, love, loyalty, etc) are explored and it's amazing how it reveals how relevant this book is today for present day Haiti.
Curious because, generally speaking, peasants don’t write novels — the hero of this story is illiterate, in fact — so these books are written by outsiders, for whatever reasons of their own.Jacques Roumain was from a wealthy Haitian family, educated in Europe, a politician, ethnologist and at the time of writing this book in 1944, a diplomat.
In the original, Roumain apparently struck a compromise between using Haitian creole — which would have been authentic but difficult for his French-speaking readers — and putting pure French into the mouths of his peasant characters; songs and proverbs are quoted in creole and the dialogue is sprinkled with creole words.
Il y a quelque chose du grand classique français (je pense comme ça à Zola, Mérimée...) et de la tragédie grecque, mais à la sauce haïtienne, avec un langage et des dialogues exotiques et colorés, c'est assez savoureux et dépaysant.
Magnifique,
"Masters of the Dew" written by Haitian author Jacques Roumain and orignally published in 1944 was a very interesting and entertaining read.
The novel follows the struggles and efforts of villagers to overcome division and hardships in the rural Haitian town of Fonds Rouge.
(Roumain himself was exiled to Cuba) Ultimately Manuel succeeds in uniting the villagers of Fonds Rouge and restoring peace and prosperity to the town.
However, I cant disagree with the entertaining aspects of the novel and Roumains literary skill certainly saved "Masters of the Dew" in my mind.
All things considered, i would recommend "Masters of the Dew" to anyone interested in Haitian culture and society.
A masterful example of the Caribbean literature staple, the peasant novel, Roumain's Masters of the Dew is a beautiful story of triumph over poverty and harmony with nature. Roumain's Marxist ideology permeates the undercurrent of the novel, however the narrative is generally free of any overt political expression. Langston Hughes translation is masterful and conveys the story extremely well. For any reader, this book couldn't come with a higher recommendation.
Written in 1944 just months before Jacques Roumain's untimely death, in a lyrical French interspersed with Haitian Creole, it captures Haitian culture and traditions whilst communicating the author's clear message about the need for people to rise above their divisions in order to unite against corruption and poverty.
The novel also spoke to me on another level, probably not intended by the author, that of the devastation of our planet by the human species, and of the need for people and nations to look beyond their differences to make positive changes.
This was my first venture into Haitian literature and Haitian philosophy. I really enjoyed it and strongly connected with the mother and father in the story, and with the sense of struggle, and putting aside grievances for the good of the community as a whole. It's a very dynamic book with dynamic characters, and I think it is an essential piece of literature.
Roumain did a wonderful job in bringing out the characters in this novel. However, there was not much of a plot to it, in my opinion. It was a good book, but not quite like the writing of Danticat. This novel told more of the story of Manuel and his journey. There was not much else about the culture, etc. Still, worth the read.
Un Chef d'œuvre. Une histoire d'amour extraordinaire. Un style incomparable. A lire absolument.
Interesting, vivid and politically inspired. The sexism is of its time and culture but still took the edge off it for me.
Jacques Roumain dessine dans son roman-phare les contours de la pierre philosophale...
When I first started reading this book, it was difficult to understand.
The way they speak in the book is a lot different than anything I have read before.
I also did not understand some things about their culture at first.
Once you read a few chapters you really start to understand the book.
It is actually a really good book with a lot more to it than you would think.
I would recommend reading this book to anyone who likes to read and is ok with taking time to understand things.
Poetic writing telling the story of a community divided by hate and lack of resources.
He is perfect in every way, woos women effortlessly, and is loved by all, to the point that it's sickening to read.His lover, a shy woman, falls deeply in love with him from just one conversation, and they make gross love on their second date, where all her fiery-ness disappears and she is forever putty in his arms.The book has many, many misogynistic themes, including women all being too chatty and whiny, calling them bitches, easily persuaded, etc.
Besides that, everything that happens is cliche and all the characters are boring and predictable.
A small community in Haiti is suffering from the lack of water, as well as from being divided due to a family dispute. One man who has been away for 15 years returns and vows to find a solution to the situation. This book was a nice quick read, interesting and moving. However, I found it to be extremely sexist - which is partly due to its context, but it was just ridiculous - as well as fairly predictable. I suspect it also suffered from the translation into English.
This is a story about the land in Haiti and a bold proposal to reconcile an old feud to save it. I was especially interested in the connection with the main character's experience in Cuba. Be sure to read the introduction by Michael Dash explaining, among other things, the context and problematic translation by Langston Hughes of the Haitian term "neg."
This is a cool little novel with its share of problems. It ends with an ultra-cheesy twist, and some of the characters are thin: the villain is almost mustache-twirlingly Evil. But it's a great investigation of Haitian society, and the way Roumain blends first- and third-person narration is really interesting, especially given his culture's narrative tradition.
Love this book! It's like the Caribbean version of Romeo and Juliet; so poetic and lyrical at times that you forget you're reading a novel. The writing was very powerful, and I definitely found myself feeling very strongly for the struggles of the characters. The ending is sad and uplifting all at the same time. This is a very heartfelt novel.
Definitely a communist text, which, considering the history of Haiti (the setting) I don't really find that surprising. I would probably think communism is a good idea too if I lived in such an extreme wealth divided country. I think the death of the main character, Manuel can be read as a christ figure, which is pretty interesting considering Marx's views on Christianity.
Etre coupée d'internet ne m'a bien entendu pas empêché de poursuivre mes lectures. Ce titre est un classique de la littérature haïtienne à la langue savoureuse. Un "Roméo et Juliette" dans la paysannerie misérable du centre de l'île, à la fois fable écologique et éloge de l'union comme condition d'émancipation, ce très beau texte est à redécouvrir.
I can see why this book is considered a classic The beautiful prose often caused me to pause. I ended it with a tear in my eye, as I was rapidly pulled into the story and the life of misery and unity of these characters. A destiny not fully evaded, even to this day. The themes are very current.
J'ai aimee ce livre tres bien! J'ai lu ce livre pendent un cours de la literature de l'afrique du nord et la diaspora et c'est parfait pour ca. Je veux re-lire pour avoir plus de sense du roman, mais c'est un histoire tragique mais realistique du haiti pendant ce temps.
I read this right before I went to Haiti and so much of it could still apply today. I actually got to see a combite while I was in the countryside and I felt a special connection to it because of the book.
Style ampoulé, récit s'annonçant ennuyeux et nombreuses fautes de grammaires dans mon édition = j'ai abandonné à la page 20...
This was lovely. It's so easy to see why it's the classic Haitian novel. It's going to be hard to choose just one excerpt to translate.
This is the most beautiful Love story. It connects every human being to their roots no matter where or how deep they lie.
The writer's who said this novel was seminal were more than right. A romantic homage to a misunderstood country. The story is as relevant today as when it was first published.
Era un po' che non mi commuovevo con un libro. Storia di bontà e intelligenza; accurata, fresca, semplice, limpida, fluida nella scrittura.
