https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51660.Food_of_the_Gods
The premise sounds interesting enough: we stopped doing shrooms and got worse as a society, along with a history of cultural drug use.I'll summarize the book in case the premise sounds interesting to you, so you can get the gist without reading it: - Some ancient cultures used mushrooms.
And once you realize that Terence can't even provide interesting accounts of drug trips, you start to think very hard about your life and why you're 200 pages deep in hell.Some of his theories, like mushrooms helping our brains evolve language, are completely unfounded, and he has no research to back it up.
I'm not going to spend a lot of time trying to convince you why this book is FUCKING AMAZING - so you'll just have to trust me.
This is truly a mind-fuck for those in search of knowledge; even making the (well supported) case that the original "fruit of Eden" was something a bit more taboo than an apple.
This book includes, in one capacity or another, almost every drug known to mankind around the world - its bio-cultural effects, origin, history, chemistry, psychedelic nature, spiritual implications, and its candidacy for consideration as; what he calls: The Original Tree of Knowledge.
I later read 'The Invisible Landscape' on a Buddhist retreat (inventing my own programme which supplemented meditation for copious amounts of time spent reading other people's books in the dormitory).I had been aware of 'The Food of the Gods' for many, many years but had avoided this book due to its explicit dealing with drugs (I had rather gone off them), though had lodged in my head a recommendation by a poetry teacher (Tom Sherrin) to give it a go, so a month or two ago I ordered the book, basically to get it out of the way.
So, for example, a tree has a structure and pattern behind it, but different people might interpret the meaning of it, in stories or art, depending on their own perspective and the context in which the tree was presented.
8 it says; "What men call the super natural is actually the natural not yet understood or revealed."Are plants the missing link?Quotes and Notes:*Author makes association that when eve ate the forbidden fruit it was psilocybin-containing mushrooms."The government not only restricts research on psychedelics that could conceivably yield valuable psychological and medical insights, it presumes to prevent their religious and spiritual use, as well.""I learned in India that religion, in all times and places where the luminous flame of the spirit has guttered low, is no more than a hustle."pg.6 quote"...beta-carbolines can be used in conduction with DMT to prolong and intensify visual hallucinations.
This book is great-much more than a treatise on "shrooms" and dope. Have you ever thought about the mind altering power of purified sugar, the politics of coffee, and the parallels between these and what we consider to be more dangerous drugs like cocaine?
قراءة في أثر المخدرات في الديانات الشامانية القديمة ، و في الحضارات المندثرة ، و هذا مرده أن المخدرا
In Food of the Gods, McKenna takes a historical look at the relationship between plants and human beings.
In addition, McKenna’s description of the environment that early humans thrived in is truly one-of-a-kind.The second and third parts of the book focus on the restriction of psychedelic medicines, which is then followed by these plants being ignored and forgotten.
Plants are the missing link in the search to understand the human mind and its place in nature.Overall, this book comes highly recommended.
A lot of people write off Mckenna as a charlatan or performer, but having just discovered him, I'm impressed by his creative thinking and pathos. I encourage everyone to read him, I think his voice is necessary in a world where addictions run rampant and our understanding of ourselves has hit a trough where value is measured by productivity and consumerism. Some of his ideas are way out there, but if you give him a chance and go there with him, without judgement, the ideas will inspire some pretty interesting questions. I loved it, Ill read it again.
Before the brainwashed hippy types that read McKennas books start pointing fingers and condemning me for saying this I've read stuff where even these South American Indian shamans that guide white people through Ayhuasca sessions have said they believe that it effects whites differently than other races.
I have experience with mushrooms but none with Ayhuasca/DMT but I think these can be a gateway but are not the "Tree of Knowledge" as he calls it.
Like I said I don't always agree with McKenna but he's always interesting.
This one is no doubt one of my personal favourites, and i recomend it to every open-minded person. I sincerely hope, that every reader will understand it correctly, yet i understand that this is impossible. Whenever you would like to discuss the book, i would like to join the discussion.
Since reading that and Food of the Gods I've enjoyed many hours of listening to recordings of McKenna's lectures.This book is a highly speculative, yet plausible, account of how human evolution may have been influenced by psychoactive mushrooms.
McKenna's claims that low dosages of psychedelics enhance visual acuity and therefore confer reproductive advantage to those populations utilizing them has some credibility as such seems to be the case.
So far as McKenna's claims for am increase in the sex drive, another reproductive advantage, go, I have no opinion.
That too is a plausible case of a drug affording a reproductive advantage.
This book is some 90% right on the money, I'm just not sure about part which correlates availability of psychedelics in an area with evolution of consciousness. This is a bit of a far stretch, but who knows. Very interesting read that's for sure. Especially parts about drugs which are not considered so hard core in today's society, or aren't considered drugs at all: tea, coffee, tobacco, sugar, TV...
McKenna neither validates nor condemns drug use.
Boomers more for its exploration of the soul, and Cocaine for its long history of human use.
I feel like if McKenna had his way, a mushroom experience would be a requirement for life, and nicotine and alcohol- society's "okay" drugs, would be considered the root of all evil.
If we're using drugs as an escape rather than a spiritual exploration, then we're not using them for the right reasons, in his view.
It flits back and forth between western society and shamanism, and their differences in the way of drug use.
At the time, I thought it was really, like, wow, man, but, having been around people who have found anything but wisdom from their relationships with drugs, I am fairly sure it would piss me off if I read it again.I can still recite the first line of the CD he did with the Shaman:Human CONSCIOUSNESS represents such a RADICAL break from the forces of BIOLOGICAL evolution that PRECEEDED it, that it MUST indicate some kind of ATTRACTOR or DWELL POINT in the history of...blah blah blah.I'd pretty much forgotten all about it.
I remember loving it when I was stoned, but I wouldn't care to read it now.
Fanciful ideas and interesting concepts, but at the end of the day chuck-full of new age psycho-babble.Some of the things he asserts are interesting and engaging to think about and entertain, but most of what he says seems to be fueled by his own adventures as a psychonaut and not concepts that are based in any measurable reality.
thanks Terence, i'm gonna go do shrooms now...But seriously, on second reading I applaud how concise and descriptive this book truly is. It might take a few times to get into it, but you'll come away with a very interesting perspective.
forgot I even read this until I stumbled upon it earlier- will be re-reading in between novels- Reminds you, Man has always required food, shelter, precreation and of course, getting out of ones' head.
If we were ever truly enlightened, you would recollect skimming this tome with me from time to time.Now pass the coffee.
BUT, I was expecting to read more about the magical effects of mushrooms, as used in shamanism and old-world paganism, so it was hard to stay interested when the book turned into a politically persuasive commentary on society every few lines, rather than the mysterious and therapeutic effects of these strange species of fungi (and other expansive chemicals).
I don't necessarily disagree with a lot of his politics, but as I said, I was looking for more facts and a more detailed history of psychedelic use and their influence on religion, prehistoric tribes and evolution, indigenous culture/shamanism, etc.
El autor da argumentos contundentes del problema del azúcar, café, tabaco, cocaína y la heroína que llevan a un estado de intoxicación preocupante en nuestra sociedad, pues por lo que se ha visto, éstas drogas dañan la mente y son las más adictivas que se han podido crear.
Por otra parte, expone que la droga que nadie siente es la televisión y, ésta, nos está afectando en gran medida.Pero para el autor todas las drogas psicoactivas no son dañinas, pues invita a experimentar con los rituales tales como el yahé y el ayuhasca, el DMT y los hongos, argumentando que es una forma de conexión la madre tierra, Gaia.
cools
Some interesting theories on religions but very dry in some places and I can't agree with all his conclusions.
It practically turns drugs into a new religion.I recently finished a book, called  Seat of the Soul, that amazed me in how people will just dream up new ideologies based on the stuff they think is cool, and then try to rope in popular politics and modern science (especially physics and biology) to support it.
When you don't know what the hell you're talking about, but you want to sound like modern biology is on your side, and you want to develop a transcendent philosophy, it's tempting to assume that evolution means progress.
I did not care for this book.There were a few parts I did like, including a wealth of historical information about the use of psychedelics in various cultures throughout history, and some interesting theories about their role in the development of both ancient and modern religions.
(In fact, part of his argument for the stoned ape theory is based on misrepresentation of one particular study.)I can handle crackpot theories if they're interesting enough to contemplate, which McKenna's are.
In fact, he seems to imply some distinction between plant-based hallucinogens and other drugs (a category in which he also includes TV, caffeine and sugar).
So if one can grasp the ideas the book is trying persuade you to believe, it could make to be an interesting read.At an overview perspective, the book goes over how all types of mind altering substances have played a role in developing cultures.
So in a sense, the theme is going into how society today finds effectiveness, efficiency, and being able to medial tasks for long periods of time to be important versus how historically, the only mind altering substances ingested were used to try and expand spirituality.
Their authenticity lies in their ability to obey and follow mass style changes that are conveyed through the media.
Contains a couple eye opening sections that describe the modern (~1500-present) sociological aspects of plant-based drugs and the complex political and industrial drives that shaped their representation in western culture.
He promotes the plant entheogens as tool for the dissolution of the toxic “dominator culture” he describes (hyperbolic in my opinion), inducing a participation with reality rather than an avoidance or distraction.
A tool used for millennia for social bonding, individual mental health and connecting the human enterprise to its roots in the earth— roots seemingly forgotten and popularly dismissed.
There’s plenty owed to the ultra-skeptical, if not narrow minded, scientific culture and industrial technology (modern medicine for one).
Reality is not simply 'experienced' or 'reflected' in language, but instead is actually produced by language." -- Terrence McKenna"Common sense assumes that, though languages are always evolving, the raw stuff of what languages express is relatively constant and common to all humans.
How then, can the Hopi world be like ours?
How then, can their world be like ours?" -- Terrence McKenna"Too little attention has been devoted to examining how language creates and defines the limits of reality." Terrence McKenna"Eating a plant or animal is a way of claiming it's power, a way of assimilating it's magic to one's self." Terrence McKenna
At first when I saw the title of the book I expected a list and history of the worlds drugs.
The book is basically a history of humanity thus far and our relationship with drugs.
(READ THIS BOOK)Then it does contain a history of the drugs and how modern humans use drugs in a consuming, dominator style (explained in book).
It is only recently in our history that we consider drug culture "adverse to social values" and the book explains why.Basically with the discovery of alcohol, humanity changed from fun loving nature people, into greed driven, all consuming, self righteous know-it-alls.
I was excited to read some McKenna but it must have been written pre internet, before all his talks and this kind of info were archived on the net.
I felt I knew everything already and this was one of those books written for maybe some extra cash, a little labor of love kind of thing.
I felt it could have worked or maybe he was just trying to do some good.
The real thing probably is to eat the right foods that the healthiest cultures somewhere in the world incorporate into their diet, which would certainly allow people to feel good.
