https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137625.The_Maya
Coe seems to rely on the many photographs in the book to 'show' and the photos are plentiful and great.
I wanted an in depth analysis of the Mayan Calendar and the doomsday prophecy.
The calendar was discussed but when Coe edged towards the guessed alignments with Venus and Mars and their impact on the Mayan people, he shied away again.To me, it was like he wanted to be taken as a "serious" historian only and those areas of presumption and hearsay are best left to others like the great Graham Hancock - everyone needs to read Fingerprints of the Gods.
Μια ιδανικη εισαγωγη για οσους θελουν να γνωρισουν τον μεγαλυτερο αρχαιο πολιτισμου του Νεοτερου Κοσμου, τους μυστηριωδεις Μαγια.
The book though insists on the fact the various Spanish and then Ladino people who imposed that ethnocide could easily succeed because of the many common points between Maya religion and Christianity.
Genocide, on the other hand, is the killing of as many members of this group, the Maya, as possible in the shortest time possible.Maybe the book does not insist enough on the fact that this divine sacrifice has deep roots in a more general mythology, particularly the Popol Vuh and the Divine Twins.
This was the best of the introductory books I've read about the Maya. Coe is a clear and engaging writer, excellent as a popularist. Newer editions are much updated as the Mayan script has since been decyphered. For an account of that see his Breaking the Mayan Code.
My Blog: The Book Nook ---> http://allthebookblognamesaretaken.bl...It's always a bummer when I think I am really interested in a topic and then after one book about said topic, I am completely unsure if my interest is waning or if the writing is just that dry/dull/etc.In this case, I think it is that the writing is just that dry and I felt like I was reading a textbook.
And this...I just could not get interested in it.
Perhaps the problem is I have very little background knowledge of my own and thus my very shaky foundation can't hold what was delivered in this text.
I always like to have a factual book on the go at the same time as a fiction and though books like this are generally often more work than pleasure, I must say that this was a pleasurable read as an introduction to a subject I previously knew very little about.Quite possibly the most comprehensive book written on The Maya to date.
I bought this on recommendation of one of my University lecturers in preparation for my honeymoon to Mexico because I had not studied Meso-America either as part of my academic studies nor for pleasure.Coe has constructed a volume rich in illustration, description, plenty of maps, explanations that are easy on the eye and covering the sum total of Maya history from the earliest settlers to the European conquest.
Coe gives a good overview of the Mayans.
Coe’s last chapter summarizes how this practice continues to this day.The richness of this culture is seen in the Mayan ruins, particularly the ceremonial centers spread throughout this large area, but Coe’s descriptions come across more or less as a listing without much of an attempt to explain the reasons for them and their significance.
Given that the pre-Columbian Mayan culture evolved totally void of contact with the cultures of Asia and Europe, it is interesting to speculate about what pre-Columbian cultural practices (religious beliefs and practices, etc.) reveal about human nature.
Extremely dense - think of this as a textbook - but apparently the most comprehensive collection of information about the Maya.
I learned a lot but it was slow going.Fun trivia: you know that 2012 bs?
(ETA: we've all forgotten this but there were some nutjobs who thought the world was going to end in 2012.) It's this guy's fault.
In an earlier edition of this book, he idly pointed out that the Mayan calendar is cyclical and a cycle ends in 2012; conspiracy theorists took it from there.
In this edition he comments on it, with a combination of shame and amusement.
A big frustration with this book is that Coe will describe an architectural feature, or a piece of jade work, or a stela in terms that make the reader acknowledge its importance, but....
He does this throughout the text and by the time I finished the book, I was ready to say good riddance.
The book is around 200 pages; did the author and/or publisher skimp on illustrations?
Future editions should be expanded to include some sort of illustration to accompany portions of the narrative that Coe is using to emphasize a piece of art of a building.
I'm read this in preparation for the lecture I have to give on SAS this May, and I'm very impressed with how thorough and accessible it is. I also like that Coe is up-front about what is unknown and/or debatable, and gives differing opinions about controversial questions.
Full of information albeit a bit dry. I guess it is a very good book if once you knew it all and now need to look something up. As a layman, I wish Paul B. Johnson wrote a book on the Maya civilization.
I met Michael Coe!! He came to a talk with David Stuart(Which was amazing!). We didn't even know he'd be there, especially since I live in such a small town/area!
Interested in the Maya people of ancient Mesoamerica? Great maps, timelines, and information that is easy to find through the index. I've used this as a quoted resource in 4 books that I've written.
No they do not believe in a 2012 doomsday lol!
an overview of Maya civilization----from the SixtiesFar from being a Maya scholar, I'm just a reader interested in ancient civilizations, one who visited Copan decades ago, but hasn't forgotten it.
I read Arthur Demarest's "Ancient Maya" first.
That volume provides a much more up-to-date view of the Mayas, one in which many new techniques have been used, DNA understood, more Mayan writing deciphered, and a picture in which forty more years of research could be taken advantage of.
Coe's writing style is more readable than Demarest's.
A reader can find interesting material on Maya thought and writing, and their calendars.
Relax - there's no test!This is a consummate introductory overview of Maya history, society, and the archaeological record.
If you have even a passing interest in the Maya, this is highly recommended.
If you are planning on visiting a site, you owe it to yourself to read a book or two prior to your visit, and this one is a great choice.There are portions that may bore you.
But if you want to appreciate the scope, the accomplishments, and all the things that make the Maya fascinating, pick up this book.Also note the editions and the style.
The style is fairly academic but written for a general audience by a couple outstanding authorities on the subject matter.
The Maya was a textbook I read for my Archaeology of Mexico class and I actually read the entire thing!
haha) I thought that the book was informative and also simple enough where a student or a leisure reader could pick it up and have no trouble getting into it.
Coe deftly takes you through the entirety of the Maya Empire and I can honestly say I learned a lot and had a pretty decent time reading the book.
I'm sure the newer editions have even more current information so if you can afford it as a student and you love this subject I'd say its worth buying the newest edition.
Having just also read this book’s companion on the other Mesoamerican peoples, I don’t know if I was just fatigued by the subject, or if THE MAYA really is the lesser of the two works.
It’s well written and especially well illustrated, but it also feels a bit too long for a mere introduction.
Coe is the leading popular Maya historian in English, so part of me thinks he and his co-author Stephen Houston are less willing to make edits because they just know so much.
On the other hand, academia seems to know objectively more about the Maya, so it might be that.
A really solid introduction, anyways.
Just back from TikalThis book is easy to read but gives a lot of information that put Maya scholarship into context over time. It helps to think of in terms of time periods and migrations. Truly an amazing culture
five star for what is; a, or possibly the, classic introduction to Maya world
This is a really good, short overview of what was known about the Maya at the time. Also, the plates of photographs have nice quality.
It is even enjoyable to read in many sections, though inevitably, for me, the greatest enjoyment came in the last few chapters, where Coe manages to incorporate information from Maya epigraphy and books, Bishop Landa's early post-contact accounts, and some 20th century ethnographies.I picked up this book to get a basic sense of chronology and regionalism in Maya studies.
Coe nowhere tells you, for instance, where in the voluminous accounts of Bishop Landa you might find a particular nugget, say, on patrilineal land ownership.
*Review of the 2011 8th edition*Just like Coe's Mexico: From the Olmecs to the Aztecs, this is a straightforward, information packed book on the history of the Maya peoples and culture.
It starts from their unknown historical ancestors and works its way up to their modern descendants, with plenty of beautiful photos to help one get a sense of the amazing variety of skill these amazing people possessed: from the tiniest, meticulously carved items, to the mountain sized pyramids that are still being found and uncovered in the jungles, to their incredible script used to capture their language.And just as with the other book, while the information is always interesting, its delivery can make it a frustrating experience.
Great reference book. It needs to be read several times and perhaps not in chronological order to try to assimilate the culture. In a nerd like fashion, I marked maps with Orange tabs, other topics with other colors
A complete cultural misunderstanding on the part of Coe must have contributed to the lack of any one dominant idea about the Maya, and the labeling of various parts as "holy," "Sacred," "divine," etc.
It does not refute the logocentric worldview inherent in such publication.
However, the writing really is not a logocentric treatment of the subject in question.
In other words, nowhere is it mentioned that Maya is still a spoken language, with continuity unbroken, in the parts of the world which still have ears to hear the authentic Maya voice.
That voice is still heard, but obviously not by Michael D.
Michael Coe is clearly very knowledgeable about the subject matter, which is great because I struggled to find much written about this topic at all.
He covers everything from geography and topography to hieroglyphics to archaeology, and also breaks down the chronology of Mayan civilization.
This isn't wholly Coe's fault, but since this subject is so uncertain and much of the "facts" are still under dispute, I struggled to differentiate between the certainties and the guesswork.
I personally found the last few chapters infinitely more interesting than the first few as they discuss the downfall of the Mayan civilization and the struggles of modern Maya.
– Several days day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
No.Short storyline: A lot of discussion around the Maya.Notes for the reader: The first 50 pages are useful.
There are a lot of pictures, though few maps to figure out the places and times they are talking about about.
After the first 50 pages, when they get to an interesting point, they mention it will be covered in chapter nine.
Chapter ten totally confused me.
As if they lumped it all together, and leave it up to the reader to figure out when one time period, or place ends and another begins.
It only has one paragraph at the end about the lifestyle of the ancient maya.
The civilization ended abruptly but people went on to build the civilizations of the Toltecs and the Aztecs after the Mayas.
Most Maya cities were built up like onions on top of old buildings so the oldest remains are at the bottom of the pile.
The Spaniards found that the Maya had a practice of baptizing their young people before Christianity arrived.
Coe does an adequate job of explaining what we think we know about Mayan culture and civilization.
Basically everything that Coe says is either asinine or in dispute, and while Coe does attempt to explain some of those disputes at times, he seems to not what to get overwhelmed by the academic debates.
To be fair, Coe's task (summarizing what we currently know about Mayan culture for a lay audience when "knowledge" is changing almost daily) is Herculean and he doesn't do a bad job--he just doesn't do a particularly good one either.Oh, and the pictures are plentiful and beautiful.
It details what we know (based mainly on archaeological finds) about Mayan culture, focusing primarily on the pre-Columbian civilizations.
It is a fascinating, if slightly dry, book (I imagine it's primarily used as a textbook).
Mainly it details digs and ancient sites and what was found on these digs (there's a lot of description of pottery and wall paintings).
I imagine this book would be really handy for travelers planning on visiting some of the sites described in the book.
In fact, there's a short chapter at the end of the book that specifically addresses travel to Mexico and Guatemala to visit various Mayan sites.
