https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35204.Splinter_of_the_Mind_s_Eye
This book is very basic, by-the-numbers sf--but with the added thrill of being written right after A New Hope came out. Thus, the entire story is about Luke and Leia's sexual tension. Sure you always intended them to be siblings, Lucas. Sure.
That was that genesis of Splinter of the Mind's Eye.En route to a secret conference, Princess Leia Organa and Luke Skywalker crash land on the mysterious planet Mimban.
This was the first non-canonical Star Wars story, so what makes it refreshing is that it is not full of self-aware references to things mentioned in the movies or other non-canonical works.
The relationship between he and Leia bears a striking resemblance to that of Indiana Jones and Willie Scott in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, and their trek across Mimban feels more like an Indy adventure than a Star Wars tale.
Plus, I had a lightsaber (a white plastic tube from a golf bag that I MacGyver'd into an ersatz Star Wars toy) and not enough plot to fill out my own pubescent Expanded Universe, so I was a-Jonesin' for plot hooks and adventure ideas.
But we'll leave it at that.)In this case, the Dark Side was controlled by Emperor A'landean, and he was a cruel master.
If anyone thinks I'm off on that, go ahead and explain the Star Wars Holiday Special, which came out ten months after this book in 1978.
The Star Wars universe is, ultimately, an inclusive one.
When in hindsight we look at how the Star Wars saga turned out, with Empire Strikes Back being not just the high point of the series, but of sci-fi/fantasy movies in general, this "what-if" looks tragically unambitious and rather stupid.
It's also fun being in the company of Luke and Leia and Darth Vader because you can play the Star Wars theme in your head while you're reading, and ponder the fact that Carrie Fisher was pretty sexy in the first movie before she became a bit rubbish later on.
I don't know what the story is behind this book.
I read it well before the second Star Wars movie was released, thinking it would be it.
In fact, it's not part of the Star Wars story that I know of.
Originally, this was supposed to be the basis for a low budget sequel, but then Star Wars hit it big & it was decided there would be a big budget sequel & this book got scrapped - or so I read somewhere.I don't think it followed some of the story line that emerged later, either.
I read this when it came out.
it was riding the "wave" of the early Star wars mania.
I remember it being a mildly interesting science fantasy read.
Got to be careful when you write those early novels.
It was like a James Blish Star trek novel written back in the early days where he had the Enterprise traveling at "near light speed" instead of using the "warp" idea and the crew was dealing with time distortion and taking years to travel....oops.
In it's day, this book would have gotten a higher rating from me--I was a big Alan Dean Foster fan. However, since it was published prior to the release of The Empire Strikes Back, it does suffer plot- and characer-wise now. But if you're a fan, it's worth a read for old time's sake. Although I must say that even back then, it made NO sense that Luke (from a desert planet) would know how to swim while Leia would not. That still baffles me.
They wind up in an underground cave, float across a lake on lily pads, Leia has another panic attack and screams her head off (Which again, is understandable, because she's in a dark underground cave full of water, covered in bruises and injuries and still terrified of Imperials, not to mention she can't swim!) They fight some random aliens, meet up with Halla, and wind up in a temple where Plot Device Red Crystal is.
Vader gets away, Luke is now hurt, but Plot Device Crystal heals him inexplicably.
I wonder why i didn't read this as a kid?
I remember seeing this and the Han Solo books, but didn't read them.
Luke is a lot smarter here than he is in the movies.
At times i wondered if this story wasn't intended for Han Solo at some point in its development.
This resonates with the pulp sci-fi (space opera, planetary romance, etc.) that inspired the movies.
Maybe instead i should make a shelf for things that use the trappings of sci-fi to tell fantastic stories?
The Barsoom books would go there, too (big influence on SW).
This novel was written after Star Wars: A New Hope was in production, but before anyone knew if there was going to be a sequel or not.
Obviously, we all know that The Empire Strikes back went in an entirely different direction that what we see in this sequel novel and it is interesting to me to see how the original direction of the series was imagined and a few things that actually were taken from this novel that make appearances in Empire.
A great read for any fan of the Star Wars franchise.
Years ago, I read this novel, "Splinter of the Mind's Eye" (the title alone is pretty kick-ass) by Alan Dean Foster, which I think was one of the first Star Wars novels published that wasn't a novelization of one of the Lucas films.
I recall very little of the plot, but I remember enjoying it.
I'm pretty sure, though, that Foster's novel doesn't quite follow the continuity of the other Expanded Universe novels, which is why it kind of exists in a literary limbo of "alternate universe "Star Wars" novels.
Regardless, it's a must-have for any Star Wars fan.
Holy crap this was bad!
This was a script made into a story.
Made for a cheap sequel to Star Wars.
That was written before the first Star Wars (IV) was finished.
It was commissioned by George Lucas in case Star Wars was not a hit and he couldn't get a more expensive sequel made.
It is at best a novelty.
The writing is bad and the characters act nothing like they are supposed to.
This is only for completest Star Wars fans.
This is Star Wars Christmas Special bad and just as painful to read as the former was to watch.
My favourite Luke fuck up was his conflicting ~knowledge~ of alien beings--which given he's a farm-boy from Tatooine, would be as this passage states...almost nil."Once he saw something that looked like a four-meter-long pale snake slither off into the underbrush at his approach.
21Followed later by Professor Luke making friends with the Yuzzem (a Wookie-like creature who talks in growls and grunts)....."'Why it didn't tear your head off.
But yet, (in reference to asking Luke to kill her and then himself before letting Vader get to either of them)there were gems like these--and I fucking quote: "'Swear it!' she demanded, her voice that of a steel kitten." p.
And funny.Oh, and P.S. Vader's fucking lightsaber is red.
I've seen it mentioned elsewhere that it is odd that the Yuzzem return Luke's lightsaber to him at one point when nothing in the preceding story suggest that they would have known it was his weapon.
Also, Luke knows the Yuzzem's language, but the explanation for this is really convenient, and frankly internally inconsistent.
The rationale Luke gives is that as a farm boy, he had a lot of time to learn things, the Yuzzem language being one of them.
The Empire Strikes Back really moved the story forward and helped everyone realize that this was not just a series of movies, but an epic tale in (ultimately) six parts.
Splinter of the Mind's Eye was the first ever Star Wars Expanded Universe novel, published the year after the blockbuster release of Star Wars (A New Hope) in 1978.
None of the characters really resemble their on-screen counterparts, and in some places seem to be their total opposites.This book is fascinating as an historical exploration into the nascent Star Wars Expanded Universe, but not as a story, sad to say (especially given such a great, overly-dramatic yet awesome title which is never actually brought into the story).
Entertaining read. Basically a lightweight thriller with Star Wars characters, it's definitely a product of the time-between-the-movies when no one had any idea what was to come. It doesn't work in a post-Empire Strikes Back universe, but that doesn't make it a bad story. If you grew up on Marvel Star Wars comics and never read this you should.
It's too short to really develope any serious plot. Very much so a book written to be a movie.
Back to the Beginning5 December 2017 - Sydney Here I am, sitting in a craft beer bar in the Rocks that I had not known of before, and I had thought that I had visited all of the pubs in the Rocks (and there a quite a few). Actually, come to think of it, despite having been to Sydney multiple times, and also visited the pubs of the Rocks multiple times, I still haven't taken the official Rock's Pub Crawl. I should try to do it sooner rather than later (maybe my next trip) because one of the pubs
Okay, I'm sure that he had had some discussions with Lucas, but by the time this book was being written, a sequel to Star Wars wasn't actually yet assured, and it was more likely than not that the film would simply spawn a series of novels and maybe a couple of low budget movies.
So, there is no indication here that Darth Vader is actually Luke's father, and the 'I love you Leah' is rather interesting to read, especially with what we know.
Mind you, with the release of 'A Force Awakens' the whole Star Wars canon has been turned on its head, and books that have been written since are pretty much obsolete.
So… obviously this is from the parallel universe of the Star Wars that could have been. Read as a SW book, it's jarring, because the Star Wars tone hadn't cemented yet, and weird things happen, like Luke and Leia murdering the first half dozen faux-ewoks they meet. Read as sci-fi book on its own, it's not good. It's a standard macguffin-hunt, but no one seems that interested in the macguffin. But the last twenty pages are GREAT. Vader is terrifying, and the final battle with him is edge of the seat exciting.
Things that bothered me:Vader's lightsaber is blue,Spelling C3PO See Threepio,Calling Artoo a Detoo unit instead of an R2 unit,The sexual tension between Luke and Leia,Vader calls Luke "Skywalker" therefore he knows who he is
What could have been but thankfully wasn't.
Great read! I would recommend this to anyone with a minute interest in the original Star Wars trilogy!
And I tell you this story because I want you to understand the sheer amount of masochism required that when I find out Lucas had planned a low-budget alternative to the Empire Strikes Back in case a New Hope flopped, my first thought was, “I need to read this!” Back when George Lucas commissioned Alan Dean Foster to ghost write the novelization to A New Hope, he also suggested a side-project, a plan B, an option to implement if no studio trusted him with so much as a coupon for IHOP, let alone a film budget.
Ono kad A.D. Foster nije znao da su Luk i Leja rod
Science-fiction fans will probably find things a bit boring and those excited by the enigmas of lost civilizations will not be mystified, but Foster does a good job of making his world both normal/familiar enough that it becomes believable and alien enough that it seems wondrous.
Things get much more interesting when Vader, a character already developed elsewhere, comes onto the scene to steal the show.
What could and probably should have been left out was Luke's sudden ability to speak and understand an alien language when it became advantageous.
Leia's development was also pretty well done (although it could have been spectacular if the story had been told through her perspective instead of Luke's).
While giggling.Second, the plot, while fairly exciting, feels like it came from a random Dungeons and Dragons game the author once played, as Luke and Leia follow Halla down into catacombs beneath the earth, and do battle against the creatures within.Foster is an award winning author and, frankly, it can’t be for turns of the phrase such as this one, found on page 246: “Swear it!” [Leia] demanded, her voice that of a steel kitten.
Despite the low-rating, I actually did enjoy this book, in a "this-book-is-total-schlock" kind of way.
This would have made an interesting film, the kind MST3K or RiffTrax would feature.In that context, this was enjoyable, and also in the context that this would have been 1978, where the only other thing to base the story off of was the first film.
None of that stuff existed or was known yet.Overall this was at least an interesting read, and if it weren't for the whole...uh, you know...violence-against-women thing...it would certainly have made 2.5 stars rather than just the 2.
I don't know how much influence George Lucas had on the writing here -- I know he was heavily involved in the plot -- but it's the actual writing that makes me cringe.Quick one-sentence summary (with spoilers): OK, so Luke & Leia crash-land on a planet, enlist the help of the indigenous population to fight off the empire, and emerge victorious.This was written before both the Empire and Jedi films, and there are plenty of elements here that were pulled into both of them.
The ebook version I read had an additional 100 or so pages describing the Star Wars expanded universe and the first chapters of a number of books from the canon.
I'm not saying you can't go dark with Star Wars, but this feels messy and muddled, like they sincerely didn't realize what they yet had with this franchise and started blindly running in the wrong direction with it.
Vader comes in way too late to feel a natural part of the story.
It's a really poorly done dynamic that does a disservice to both characters.Overall: Glad I've finally read it after all this time, but there's so little there of interest, and half of what is there is sloppily executed or just plain gross that I don't recommend it and doubt I'll ever re-read it again.
Revisited this book after a few years and had a blast!
You can get summaries of this all over the place, here are my impressions on the book revisiting it as a grown man vs a boy.- There are so many parallels with ROTJ and ESB that it is hilarious to see where GL borrowed liberally from this book.
The jungle setting of Mimban/Dagobah, Vader losing a limb to Luke, the uprising of the small native species vs the Empire, - Luke and Leia's inappropriate romance.
Luke, some decorum please!“They trudged on, Luke stealing admiring glances at her when she wasn’t looking.
