https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64725.A_World_Out_of_Time
First he flies around a huge black hole and narrowly escapes being sucked into it. Later on in the book, they stick a giant tube into Uranus, turning it into some kind of planet-sized rocket, and use it to rearrange the Solar System's architecture.I know so little about Freudian psychology that I imagine these scenes tell us something about the state of Mr Niven's psyche. Marvel at my naïveté if you will!
Too much of Brave New World to start off with and too similar to The Time Machine (with the 'master and slave races' thread) for the rest of the book.
It is tough to keep a book together with only one interesting character, especially when it is not the main character, and sticks around for less than a third of the story.
All in all, the book had me bored out of my senses waiting for something new to happen.Maybe it was a mistake to not read Ringworld first.
It is going to be hard for me to come back to Niven after this drudge-fest.
(Re-read this as part of summer-long nostalgia trip of Larry Niven's Known Space books. Although A World Out of Time, takes place in a different fictional universe, I had good memories of the book and this felt like the right time to revisit.) There is one major difference between this book and any of the Known Space series that you should know about --- no FTL --- hence no hyperspace, no Outsider drive, no instantaneous communication. What we have is the lightspeed-observing Buzzard ramjet - o
There is one major difference between this book and any of the Known Space series that you should know about --- no FTL --- hence no hyperspace, no Outsider drive, no instantaneous communication.
With this key limitation, Niven's narrative has to work with centuries of transit time, long stretches crossing the empty gulfs of space, and all the arcane physics dealing with astrogation, cosmology and time dilation.
The first half of the book is fast-paced and unpredictable; all about the physics, with vintage hard SF story-telling from Niven.
He must have liked FTL so much because he later made up Hyperspace II.Post-script: Notwithstanding the challenges, writers still try galactic space opera without FTL.
As always Larry Niven is better at coming up with great story ideas than actually writing them.
This one starts out feeling like a short-story, and as such it is fantastic.
Without giving away too much of the plot, the first part of the story is a grand adventure of galactic proportions.
The hard science gets in the way of the writing at times--it would be better if the story followed the rules of hard science, and had less plot driven by pounding the math into our heads.
A great deal of it feels like The Pak Protectors reversed.
I have always enjoyed a good Niven story.
(I'll get to the 3 star rating).I've often said nobody does aliens like Niven.
Well this story takes a different turn.
He can take hard science and big ideas and write a story that is easy and enjoyable to follow.Reasons for 3 star and not 4 or 5This unique plot turns into typical Niven.
While enjoyable I couldn't help but think it could have developed into something different, something better.
I've read the Fleet of Worlds series and never got the idea.
However, in this story it seems to come across boldly.
Charting humanity's future history20 January 2014 There are a number of science-fiction books around where the author attempts to chart the future history, in a speculative manner of course, of humanity. Isaac Asimov does that in his Foundation universe (which begins with the Robot stories and ends with Foundation and Earth) and Larry Niven does the same thing with A World Out of Time. The theme that I see in this idealistic setting is how humanity can create the perfect society in the perfect w
Isaac Asimov does that in his Foundation universe (which begins with the Robot stories and ends with Foundation and Earth) and Larry Niven does the same thing with A World Out of Time.
However, Corbell has different ideas, and deciding that he doesn't like the world in which he has awoken, turns the ship around and flies into the centre of the galaxy.
However, Corbell then turns around and heads back to Earth to discover that everything has changed (which is not surprising because he has travelled three million years in the future).
"Свят извън времето" не е награждавано произведение.
Майната му на това!Темпото на написаното варира, като перфектно отразява случващото се.
Интересни второстепенни герои.Писан преди над четиредесет години, всеки съвременен фантаст би могъл да завижда!
Сюжетът започва през 1970-а и завършва три милиона години по-късно (!!%№*!!!)!Лари Нивън не е сред най-популярните фантасти у нас.
Макар и скромно да съм прочел около половината, и то преди над десет години, все още успявам да си спомня по нещо за всяка от тях (рядко явление за мен).
Винаги интересен и оригинален, способен да опише свят не - а цяла вселена в сравнително малко страници.
Larry Niven is one of the grandmasters of science fiction. He knows how to weave hard science, characterization, and plot into an interesting and compelling tapestry. A World Out Of Time is rich in hard science but a little light in the plot and characterization areas. However, it is an entertaining blend of hard science and adventure story. The Plot A man named Jaybee Corbell was frozen in the late 20th century due to incurable cancer. Since the freezing process destroys cells, Corbell is reviv
A World Out Of Time is rich in hard science but a little light in the plot and characterization areas.
There's no convenient sci-fi faster-than-light travel or communications in this book.Secondly, some of the speculative science was interesting.
That's pretty much expected for an adventure tale, but I can't help but think that, with better characters, this novel would have perhaps appealed to a wider audience.Also, the political/sociological description of the Earth 3 million years in the future was rather disappointing.
A World Out Of Time is worth a read if you're wanting a good old sci-fi adventure with some hard science thrown into the mix.
Jaybee Corbell, his cancer-ridden body frozen in 1970, is revived 200 years later in a body that is not his own.
It is there, on a world that has reverted to a more primitive state, that Jaybee Corbell’s true adventures begin.Characterization is not very deep.
This is hard/SF (science based) adventure story with interesting characters, but not a deep character study with a few deus ex machina moments.Not part of Niven’s Known Space universe, 'A World Out of Time' shares a number of similar ideas: devices that provide instantaneous between various locations, the knowledge of how to move planets, fountain-of-youth substances and deep sleep tanks for long space voyages.
But when he returns to earth 3 million years in the future to a very changed Earth, that's when the story falls apart.
The two halves of the book really have nothing at all to do with each other, and I found myself just wanting to get through to the end so I could go on to something else.Didn't like the characters, the plot was disjointed, choppy and often felt like some kind of science fiction keystone cops with people racing around all over the place searching for something they weren't even sure really existed.Wouldn't recommend it.
Okay boys and girls, are you ready for the ultimate water-controlling state?
Well tough, because other boys and girls have become immortal and have misplaced the Earth next to Jupiter and you're a corpsicle and you're a LONG way from home.
Or at least a short hop to the center of the galaxy and back can be considered a long way, if only in relativistic time.Sure, the characters are sometimes spotty, but as a fantastic idea-generator, Niven excels.
I think I might enjoy the novels even more because I like to use my own imagination while I read and fill in the blanks as I go, giving more depth to the worlds I see.
Hijinks involving the ship's computer, the residents he finds on the planet he eventually lands on, and his main adversary once he makes it to the planet, then fill in the rest of the story.I would almost place this in the category of pulp scifi.
I shall try to summarize the book this way: Niven came up with some really creative science fiction elements, and tried to wrap a story around them that would compel readers.
That made no sense?" But due to my tenuous devotion to the story itself, subservient to the desire to just finish the darn book, I did not always go back and try to figure them out.
Costei rivela che molto tempo prima, dopo la fine della civiltà industriale, gli umani si sono differenziati in tre raggruppamenti: due di adolescenti che non invecchiano, i Ragazzi e le Ragazze, e un terzo gruppo che discende dal ceto dirigente dello Stato (i dittatori, ora noti come dikta).
Pierce, revealing his true name as Peersa, attempts to bully Corbell into continuning the State's mission, but fails when it becomes apparent that he must obey Corbell's orders.Corbell extends his life through long periods in cryonic sleep, but is an elderly man by the time they reach the galactic core.
As he learns about Earth's past, will he unlock the secrets of dictator immortality and discover who moved the planets?Of the three Larry Niven books I read over the past few months, A World Out Of Time was the one of the more enjoyable and imaginative stories.
It puzzled me for a while; when you look at the listing for the audiobook of Larry Niven's wonderful 1984 novel  The Integral Trees  on Amazon, it has a parenthetical comment, (The State series, Book 2). The Kindle and print listings note this same novel as (The Smoke Ring series Book 1). I began to get paranoid. Was there a pre- IT  novel written about a powerful State for that ominous year?Yes, there was. It turns out that reading the first novel last is a good thing.In 1976, well ahead of bui
The Kindle and print listings note this same novel as (The Smoke Ring series Book 1).
series: AI personalities super-loyal to the State, slave corpsicles, and evolutionary, adaptive changes to the human body and mind.
In a last-ditch effort to bring him back, a minion of the State remote-programs his ship's computer with his own personality, but to no avail.
Then there's the AI ship, Perssa, who might yet, at last, have something to say about Corbell's fate.Wide-ranging, epic even when the world-building is restricted to the Solar System, this novel deserved to be resurrected and included with the 
Soon, though, he gets a chance to escape and flee into Earth's far far future where many things have changed and survival is even more complicated.This is 70s-era science fiction, and it shows.
There's an extended sequence where the main character runs from an old woman in the ruins of the Earth hundreds of thousands of years in the future that just seemed to drag on endlessly, and although it got briefly better around that, it circled back to that plot in a particularly annoying way.
The first half has Corbell awakening in a new body and finding out he is basically a slave of the State -- 200 years after he had himself frozen before he died of some sort of cancer.
Corbell, through the use of a RNA drip, is taught all he needs to know to carry out a mission that will take hundreds or thousands of years.
But Corbell wants to return to earth and eventually - 3 million years later - he does.
I'd rather just be left wondering what happened to earth in the 3 million years!
Ever happened, how you're just strolling down the street and suddenly get that feeling: you coul really do away with a little old good science fiction book, space opera, or something like that?Larry Niven is a master of science fiction.
And though some may say, misogyny is a huge problem in classic science fiction, but Larry Niven is not guilty of that sin.Sure, we get a white savior hero and a future dystopian society of prepubescent boys.
For any wanting to learn more about the worlds created by Larry Niven, I would not recommend starting with this book.
This is my third Niven book and I just can't get enough.
My favorite book so far as been Ringworld but I also found this one to be very interesting.
I loved how the novel technically takes place over a huge time period because the main character goes into cryo so often.
This book encompasses so many theories of how the world could go in the future: What if girls ruled the sky and boys ruled the earth?
Plus there's a whole Les Mis kinda part where a government official is obsessed with bringing to justice the main character.
Lots of action and plenty of interesting science.
,,Свят извън времето“ е книга, причислена към жанра фантастика.
Въпреки това в нея се наблюдават и типичните за приключенския жанр елементи.
Самият автор се е съсредоточил основно върху действието (предполагам, че това е нормално за жанра).
Сюжетът е ясен, което ще рече-лесен за проследяване.Имало едно време един мъртвец.Всичко започва с разказа за един труп.
Труп, който 220 години преди началото на самата история, e бил личност на име Джеръми Бранш Корбел.
Научавайки за болестта си Джеръми е изправен пред две възможности- да умре или да се съгласи да го замразят с надеждата в далечното бъдеще хората да открият лек за заболяването му.
This novel is set in Niven's The State universe (along with The Smoke Ring and The Integral Trees), which is an interesting counterpoint to his far more famous Known Space books. The sociological explorations are reminiscent of the best of Mack Reynolds' books from the previous decade. Niven's scientific speculations are challenging and thought-provoking, and though his world-building and puzzle-posing tend to put his character development on the back burner, I found this one to be a very entertaining read.
This would have been much more of a psychological thriller and fun AI and space story (view spoiler)[very much like Poul Anderson's Tau Zero (hide spoiler)].
Though the best sections were the first two chapters, Niven devotes so much more attention, detail, and space on the less interesting later events that the marked imbalance taints the last two-thirds of the novel.
Still, Niven hasn't run out of interesting ideas, and there's fun to be had, particularly if you don't mind that he basically copied over these same ideas into other books of his (view spoiler)[the Ringworld sequels  (hide spoiler)].
It is definitely bad science fiction writing, but I think well of creative ideas, however poorly presented.
However, Corbell revolts and hijacks the ship for his own journey to the center of the Galaxy.
Added to this, Corbell was captured by Mirelly-Lyra, who was also a returned star ship pilot and refugee from the past, although she was from Corbell's future.
Corbell escaped from Mirelly-Lyra and became enmeshed in the struggle to survive in a very harsh environment and negotiate his way through hostilities between warring factions on the planet.
This book presents a very complex plot with awesome time-travel consequences, mind-boggling physical transformations of the solar system and the environment of Earth, and inexplicable societal turmoil.
Re-published by Blackstone Audio in 2012.Read by Tom WeinerDuration: 7 hours, 59 minutesFirst published in 1976,  A World Out of Time  is a grand adventure that literally follows its hero, Corbell, across the galaxy and across three million years of time as he reacts to one twist after another that eventually finds him carrying the fate of the entire world on his shoulders.The story begins with Corbell being revived from being frozen in a cryogenic chamber almost 200 years after he had been froz
is a grand adventure that literally follows its hero, Corbell, across the galaxy and across three million years of time as he reacts to one twist after another that eventually finds him carrying the fate of the entire world on his shoulders.The story begins with Corbell being revived from being frozen in a cryogenic chamber almost 200 years after he had been frozen in the 1970s because he had in incurable form of cancer.
Several years ago (and by several I mean much more than 20!) I read Larry Niven's novel The Integral Trees and enjoyed it so much I went on to read The Smoke Ring.
Now I am (at least) 20 years older since I read these "first" two novels, but I remember I loved the world building and the characterization.
It is with this Larry Niven background that I gleefully dove into reading A World Out of Time.This was a good novel, but, I don't know, there seemed to be something missing in this novel, and I'm not sure why.
I thought it would be grisly, but then he gets into space.
Kind of funny.
I'm still hoping to discuss 'The Soft Weapon' short story someday (was adapted in the Star Trek cartoon), but there's no audio version yet.I finished it quickly for a discussion on Sffaudio.
As usual in these things, I liked the outer space parts more than the on the ground in primitive societies parts.
Based on his classic short story, Rammer.
No, the kindle book doesn't have page numbers.
Although all his books seem to have the same kind of spaceship propulsion, the Bussard ramjet.
G. Well’s The Time Machine, with the added issue that Corbell, unlike Time Machines unnamed time traveller, has no way of returning home, making this a “fish out of water” story at its bleakest.A common criticism of Niven’s book is that it is short on description and character development, and though both these complaints are true I find it a positive aspect of the work.
Good. I can't quite give it 4 stars simply because there just quite isn't enough substance to the plot once you get about a third of the way through. It is interesting enough to keep going to see how it ends, but the majority of the interesting stuff happens in the first third or so. Still worth reading.
i first read this when it was first published and now,in the 21st Century so many parallels to our world today were almost predicted in the fashion of a true Sci Fi classic. If it were in my means i would make a anime movie of this book...
Qualche spunto interessante lo offre ma nel complesso l'ho trovato lento, noioso e inconcludente. La trama, dalla metà in poi, diventa sempre più una cagata pazzesca.
