https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817791.The_Blind_Side
Sucks for those who don't, though...The Blind Side is a nice, concise slice of today's true American Pastime, and it's the sort of feel-good story that will appeal to a broad audience (and by broad I don't necessarily mean dames!) *twiddles cigar and jiggles eyebrows ala Groucho Marx*.This is essentially the story of Michael Oher, current NFL offensive lineman, former skid row forgotten child of delinquent parents.
Football enthusiasts, historians and strategists may glean some interesting insights from this well-written, flowing story with its palatably presented data tucked in as thought-nuggets through out.
The story of Michael Oher is compelling (and ongoing), and it's hard not to root for him.That said, I have my suspicions about the altruism at the heart of the story.
As much as Lewis tries to drive the point home that the Tuohy family are just generous, kind people, I do find the story of Michael's recruitment and subsequent (spoiler alert) commitment to Ole Miss very suspect.
I simply don't believe the Tuohy's motives were pure in adopting Michael, and I don't like the way that Lewis casually brushes off the idea that this feel good story could have arose from more sinister origins.
The Blind Side features two story lines, one traces the evolution of offensive football since the early 1980's specifically the way it reacted to the way Hall of Fame revolutionized the Outside Linebacker position was played.
Michael is projected to be a first round pick in April's NFL draft.There have only been a handful of great books on Football published in the past 20 years, and this is one of them.
Hoop Dreams detailed the machine built around taking poor black athletes from the inner city and sticking them into primarily white school systems that only cared about those athletes to the extent that they would help their sports teams win.
When an NCAA investigator feels that this adoption (and the tens of thousands of dollars thrown towards Michael) might be some attempt to circumvent the rules and buy his favor, Lewis can't help but vilify her.
A poor black football star inside the home of this rich white booster could be made to seem scandalous, and so here they were, bothering Michael.
Ok, so if you want to read this book- just know that it is not just an inspirational story about a poor kid who makes it to the NFl, it is also a very matter of fact book about the evolution of certain postions in football (mostly the left tackle, who protects the blindside of the QB) and also about some of the changes in the game of football.
The other is mildly intriguing and probably not as a big a story as it seems.When telling the story of Michael Oher, a poor black kid from Memphis adopted by a loaded white family and the journey he takes from uncommunicative, unschooled, untrusting child to a succesful lineman starring at Ole Miss it's a good story.When writing about the emergence of the left tackle position in the NFL it was hard not to skip passages.Left tackle is an key position and the excerpts from players and coaches is interesting.
There's no real comparison to other ways the game has evolved.The Michael story left me uncomfortable.
It basically alternates between chapters about football player Michael Oher's "history" & the emerging importance of the position of left tackle in the NFL and in college football.
I was okay with it, but tended to start skimming the further I got into the book.The chapters specifically about Michael Oher were more engaging, although I feel myself left with a sour taste in my mouth as to the role the Tuohy family played in developing this young man's sports career.
Hence, his is an inspiring story and the Tuohy's should probably be commended for their unfaltering support of Oher.
The book is mostly about Michael Oher, a homeless black teenager who was adopted by a white family in Memphis who then went on to be a successful football player.
There are also a few dense chapters devoted to recent changes in professional football and how the player who guards the blind side of a quarterback now has greater value in the NFL.
(Not being a football fan, I skimmed those sections.) But the chapters about Oher's rise and turnaround were fascinating and thoughtful.
Michael Lewis is a gifted reporter and I plan to read more of his books.
The Blind Side is a book about a homeless teenager who gets adopted by a married couple who sees him on the side of the road and gives him a ride and a place to stay.
The protagonists are the people who adopt him are pretty much his whole community.The only antagonists are the streets he is trying to get away from.
By the streets I mean the town where he used to live.Main conflictHe lived with a mom who didn’t even know who he was he pretty much didn’t have an actuall family he had to fend for himself.
The main conflict is trying to get his grades up so he can attend a college.
I'm huge NFL fan and Ravens are one of my favorite teams (mostly because of Ray Lewis) but I didn't know the Michael Oher story until the movie was released.
But I can totally see why Michael himself had problems with how he was portrayed in the book.
It's like reading the "Jungle Book" or "Tarzan" , Michael was raised by pack of wolves for 15/16 years then brought into civilization or even an alien from outer space coming to live on Earth learning the ways of humans at least according to Michael Lewis depiction of Mr. Oher in this book.
Michael Oher's story was touching and I loved that specific part in this book.
Michael Lewis wrote this story so well.But then he got all technical about football, coaches, players, and plays.
Football, to me, just seems to be a very long game of fat-man tag.So that is the reason it gets 4 stars.
I loved Michael Oher's story though.
Michael Oher has now acutally come out with his own autobiography/memoir so the next time I have to read a sports book, I think I will choose that one, just to see his side of the story.
This is the story of a black kid from the country's third poorest zip code in Memphis who was adopted by a wealthy white family (they own their own jet) and with lots of support from the father of a son and from coaches and teachers and tutors played football at Old Miss and made it to the NFL and multi-million dollar contracts.Woven into the story of Michael Oher is the development of the importance of the left tackle in professional football.
And the story of Michael Oher, adopted by what would seem like the last family in the world to love and care for someone like him, is a delight.
I am a big Michael Lewis fan, but Blind Side really missed the mark.
Instead, it becomes a story of how wonderful a white family is for taking in a poor, black kid who is then groomed to play football for the NFL.
There are so many shades of gray in this true story, but Lewis never really "goes there" and it becomes clear why in the acknowledgments - he is childhood friends with the rich white man in question.
The story itself raises some very interesting questions, but the author is never the one to ask them.
My husband read this as a sports book, but as an educator I was very interested in the barriers poverty presents for getting through (or even "to") school. My father-in-law recently reminded me of the book when he recalled that Oher and his brother grew up in a section of Memphis where Census results showed not a single father in the entire zip code. Is anyone starting a Memphis Children's Zone?
Had no idea what was going on. I don't speak football.
When I turned around and watched the game, I was disinterested to the point of wishing I could read a book, right there on the side of the field.Once, as we girls were cheering "O-F-F-E-N-S-E: Offense, Offense, Go Team!" a dad of one of the players threw an empty soda can at us and shouted, "You idiots!
In fact, I read part of THIS BOOK while my husband watched the Broncos game.So, now that you know this about me, you know that you can trust my review.
And, if you love football AND feel-good stories, then you might just find this a 5 star read.
After seeing the movie I was curious about the book and though I'm not a big football fan decided to give it a read.
I was a bit daunted by depth of the coverage of the evolution of football in the book but I can't say I wasn't warned...
There were a few sections (particularly when the footnotes got to be close to half a page) when the football details became too much for me but I'm sure that dyed in the wool fans loved it.
If you'd rather not learn a lot about football but are still curious about the Michael Oher story, by all means, check out the movie.
I'm not even going to bother putting the excerpt for this book since if you've seen the movie you know what its about.
I'm going to put it straight that i am not a sports fan.
I know absolutely nothing about sports, nor do i care to learn.
Unfortunately the book is nothing like the movie.
In fact unless your a sports or football fan that it's probably safer to stick with the movie.
Many times while reading the book i felt like i was back in statistics class again.
Reading the pages, but really having no idea what the hell is being said.

I loved this book! Love, love, loved it. Interest in football? Zero. Interest in the surge of importance of a single football position I maybe could point out on the field, but probably not? Nope. Interest in the motives and actions of a white Christian Republican uber-rich Memphis family? Not even. Interest in this book which contains all of the above? Incredible. I couldn't put it down. That is the mark of a very good non-fiction writer. Do you like football? Read this book. Do you not like football? Read this book.
کتابش رو نخوندم اما فیلمش رو دیدم و یکی از بهترین فیلم هایی بود که تا حالا دیدم و سر شار از مفاهیم آموزشی ، تربیتی ، انسانی و روانشناسیه دیدن این فیلم رو به همه دوستان پیشنهاد می کنم داستان در مورد زندگی واقعی مایکل اور نوجون امریکاییه بی خانمانیست که توسط یک خانواده ثروتمند و انساندوست مورد سرپرستی و حمایت قرار می گیرد ...
The only difference is, that Michael Oher’s story is real.Michael Lewis has written so many great novels and “The Blind Side” is no exception.
Michael Oher mysteriously starts off as a homeless teenager, we have no idea what happened to his parents until very late in the book, but up until then it constantly leaves the readers thinking why has this boy been put in this situation.
I’m sure that Michael Lewis wanted to instill the idea of kindness and community into everyone’s lives.Throughout the entirety of the book you feel for Michael Oher as if the entire story was happening in front of you.
The author breaks down the portions of football you need to understand in order to get at the real story he is trying to tell, that of Michael Oher.This book can be appreciated on many different levels.
There is just so much to this story and Michael Lewis does the job beautifully!As with any book made into a movie, I recommend reading it before watching it.
But even doing the reverse, I found the book enjoyable and want to watch the movie again.
It wasn't the use of the n-word that changed my recommendation, as I feel words and ideas like that help spur conversation with tweens.
I have zero interest in football and wasn't planning to read this book, even though I consistently like everything that Michael Lewis writes. I came across a copy at a book swap, took it home and read it in 24 hours. Fantastic. An amazing story. Lewis is the master at explaining complicated data and trends and making them feel relevant (and understanding which ones actually ARE relevant); and linking them with real people's real stories. He makes these people so interesting, maybe more interesting even than they are in real life. He's a master.
Great book i would recommend it to many people who like sports books
I'm not really into biographies, but this has to be one of the most fun, interesting, and well-written biographies I've ever read!
(only read up to 300 at this point)This book is very interesting and tells a great story about a kid from horrible neighborhood who is taken in by a wealthy white family.
But it dosn't just tell a story about Michael Oher, we learn and understand a lot about the job of a left tackle.
Another favorite part of mine is how the Touhy family believed in this kid and he never let them down.Trying to grow up with out a father is something unimaginable for me but what Michael Oher went through his whole life is undescribable.
On many occasions, Michael fled from foster homes to reunite with his mother, often rendering him homeless in his search.
Keep in mind I am not a football player, but the author of this book, Michael Lewis, writes with such a fervor when describing sports that it made football beautiful, and like that of a perfect science.
I was compelled to read this book after seeing the movie twice in theaters, once with my family and once with my friends.
I recommend not only to football fans, but all sports fans for its love and emotion of athletics.
I find that most of the movie sticks to themes from this book, but takes certain liberties along the way.
I read it as a socioeconomic story about an athlete with high potential, in which at first no one had a stake in, then, with a lot of help (and luck), everyone took a stake in him; yet, by the end, Oher himself, had taken a stake in his own potential.
Learning how the recruiting of high school football players to college has changed and progressed.
Learning how the entire game changed, with the importance of the offensive line, and the value of these players increasing not only to protect the quarterback, but to get paid!
The history comes concurrently whit Michael Oher's story.
It's great to hear an underdog story, and shows how remarkable Michael Oher's journey was.
From a silent, awkward kid no one would talk to- to a confident high school player who is being pulled in every which way because he's wanted by every college to play for them.
Worth a read for anyone who enjoys football.
