https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/576381.Cherry_Ames_Chief_Nurse
ACTING Chief Nurse, that is.
Picking up days--hours?--after ARMY NURSE left off, CHIEF NURSE finds ACTING Chief Nurse Cherry Ames going into battle, and not just the battle to win the respect of her new Commanding Officer, Colonel Pillsbee, although that's harrowing enough.
No, it's jungle combat, complete with mosquitoes, long marches, and mobile-hospital patients with all kinds of physical and psychological wounds.
One silent patient suffers the further indignity of a typo in the text, which has the doctors and nurses searching for damage to his vocal "chords." Otherwise, a very exciting episode in the life of Nurse Cherry Ames!Thanks for reading.
It was certainly a rarity among books for young girls at the time to see such fairly realistic depictions of battle scenes, and as I was reading it I was once again gratified that Cherry and her nurses are never portrayed as damsels in distress.
They are treated as courageous, intelligent women, except by one or two nasty old fossil characters, who are rather a blight on the book.
Cherry seems to always run up against these types.
I also found myself wincing a bit at the “monstrous Japs” of the time and genre.
It’s worth a read, but it may make you uncomfortable here and there.
I read this mostly for nostalgia's sake :P I used to love this as a kid, and my friends and I formed this club thing surrounding them and it was great. I don't think the books still match up to my old view of them but eh.
I am being pleasantly surprised by the Cherry Ames series. I never read them as a child, but they are pretty entertaining, even if they are a bit dated and mildly racist. They hold up pretty well for being nearly 75 years old, and they have been fun to read.
Wonderful memories I read this book about 50 years ago and loved pt so much. I can't believe I found it again after so long! Can't wait to collect all the others too.
You can't go home again, and you can't read the books of your youth again either.
This book gives a good view of live as an Army nurse in the South Pacific during World War II.
I read some of these as a kid, and re-reading them has been really, really fun.
Glad to see both Cherry and Charlie reunited and very glad there is no appearance of Rex!
At the beginning of this book, Cherry has been promoted to acting Chief Nurse (at the age of just 22!), and sent ahead to a Pacific Island to await the arrival of the rest of the Spencer nurses.
Naturally, Cherry's flyer brother, Charlie just happens to appear at the hidden airbase on the next island, to help her solve the mystery that involves one of his crewmates.The first four books in this series were published in 1944; obviously with the intent to entice young women to become nurses.
I wonder how many of these women were disappointed when their experiences did not live up to the promise of Cherry's — no quick promotions or exciting mysteries to solve.
This was really enjoyable!
Although the characterization and plot development is not especially deep, I think this book does a good job of showing both the hardships and the urgent necessity of wartime nursing, while still being entertaining to read.
Some of the minor subplots the book incorporated were quite enjoyable, though.
For example, I was pleasantly surprised that a storyline about a new anesthesiologist went in the direction it did.This remains a time capsule of the way wartime army nursing was presented to contemporary young adults.
Being a product of its time, that means it does include some degrading comments about the Japanese.
This is the fourth book in the series and I think is the best of the first four even the others have also been really good.
In this case Cherry and her nurses are on a Pacific Island.
The book does a very good job describing how they get set up and the various problems that they encounter.
There's also direct action in the book as the island that Cherry and the nurses are on is attacked.There's also a lot of anti-Japanese material, of course.
It notes, in one case, where the Japanese attack a hospital area.
It's a really, really good addition to the series.
I just can't get enough of this series!
It is so awesome!
This time Cherry is right in the thick of battle as the U.S.A. fights Japan in World War II.
She must treat the soldiers gun shot wounds and tropical illnesses.
Cherry is strong, young, and independent, which is so awesome to see in literature- especially when this series was written.
This was a time when women weren't really out getting careers much.
Forget gymnastics and figure skating, women can face the dangers of war just like men and learn valuable skills and have a huge influence on the world.
Cherry STILL hasn't emptied a bedpan but in this one, she honest-to-god goes to war. Has to dive into trenches when her Pacific island is attacked in WWII. Good on ya, Cherry! As this one is set during the war, it features anti-Japanese topics more than others, and as I contemplate sharing these books with a young friend (whose grandmother recalls reading the series), I'm thinking that we'd have to have a conversation about why we do not call people Japs any more.
Quite liked this! I've been on the hunt for interesting books for my 10 year old niece, where there is a strong female character with all the decent human qualities, and one where romance isn't off the cards, but not a main topic of conversation.I've always liked mystery books of this type, and this is as good as any.
I really liked this series as a child, but it's not holding up for me now.This book continues Cherry's career as an Army nurse during WWII. She is stationed on an island in the Pacific where she serves as Chief Nurse at a temporary hospital during the war with the Japanese.
This I think is the best of the Cherry Ames books. There are far too few books about nurses at war and this one manages to do it for a young audience in a - I think - realistic way that gives you a feeling of both the danger and the courage during a war.
This book was new to me, I must have missed it as a child. Cherry Ames goes to a Pacific Island and sets up an evacuation hospital during WWII. Interesting to learn about the medicine practices of the day and get a little fictionalized historical propaganda from the era.
Loved this series as a kid, enjoyed them just as much as an adult. Loved Cherry's adventures as a nurse as well as mystery attached to story. Interesting to note differences in medicine at time book was written with today's standards.
It was incredibly interesting to read a book that was set during WWII, and also written during that time. The blatant sexism was a bit much at times, and I found my eyes rolling more than once, but overall, this was a gripping tale of bravery of the nurses during that time.
Read as a young adult.
I am really enjoying the Cherry Ames books. It's time they were introduced to today's young ladies.
This series if books is a lifelong dream come true. I'm in heaven.
Quick fun read. Nice nostalgia.
Interesting to read...especially regarding the cultural differences between 1944 and now!
Racist as fuck.
The WWII setting was thrilling!
