https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144006.Dinotopia
His imagining of his new and strange world carries a depth and weight that, to be trite, truly transports you there--but then, that's what he built his career on.A competent draughtsman who plied his imagining of ancient Egyptian rituals and architectural recreations in the pages of National Geographic, Gurney's style evokes the travelogue of a naturalist (which is, happily enough, his story's frame), so that the sometimes indulgent fantasy or unremarkable characterization mostly comes off as an occasionally unlikely (or overly likely) world.This isn't to say that his art is always wholly successful--there are rough patches here and there, especially when his sartorial and tonsorial choices cause his characters to resemble late 60's hippies.
James Gurney is so devoted to the world of Dinotopia, to the culture, the language, the architecture, the clothing, and the characters, that I am amazed even today at how seriously I take the book.
Those who think they could never swallow the idea of sentient dinosaurs (saurians in the book are treated as an interesting merging of peers with plowbeasts) may just be surprised at how unimportant the broad disregard of scientific accuracy is: Mr. Gurney has included the dinosaurs to add a sense of wonder, to show culture differences, and even to seriously examine what life would be like if, well, if we could have a friendly chat with a forty-foot taxi.
Era que literalmente los dinosaurios estaban en todas partes.
Soy de los que considera que la idea de una Utopía carga siempre una ingenuidad implícita, pero aquí ésta no se siente por ningún lado.Si bien el relato (hábilmente presentado con el motivo del manuscrito encontrado) es parco y no caracterizado ni tampoco detallado en palabras, al fin y al cabo a lo que vinimos es cómo el arte de Gurney es el que cuenta la historia.
Mejor que lo vean ustedes.Al final, Dinotopia es una historia sencilla e inocente pero que apela sin escarbar demasiado en nuestro sentido del asombro y de la fascinación.
"You of the west," Malik said, "think of time moving in a straight line, from past to present to future.
You think of meaningless units of time - weeks, hours, minutes - based on what?
And when you do, you will measure your life in a different way." And indeed, after reading this, I too saw the world in a different way.I no doubt appreciate the extensive time and research that must have gone into the making of this wonderful story.
Jeg ville have ELSKET den her bog i min dinosaur-besatte barndom!
Det var meningen at der skulle være dinosaurer med.
Men jeg nåede kun at tegne forsiden med en Triceratops og de tre hovedpersoner før jeg gik død på første side.Har læst DINOTOPIA højt for min syvårige dino-fan herhjemme.
Sproget er lidt gammeldags, og der er ikke rigtig noget plot - men hold nu op en fantastisk verden.
Og der er endda et dinosaur-alfabet og dinosaur-sange (med noder!) og en masse vidunderlige tegninger.
Og ham Will er altså ret sej <3Vi har heldigvis allerede fået 2'eren hjem fra biblioteket!
Ojalá más libros así. Ya no sólo ilustrados, sino que las imágenes son parte de la narrativa hasta el punto que no se puede valorar el texto por sí solo. La historia en sí es convencional, pero creo que el libro pretende más ser una excusa para explorar el mundo que contar una historia.Lo he disfrutado mucho, y la edición es una maravilla. Qué ganas de ponerme con los siguientes.
I realize that I'm waaaaay late to this party, but I just randomly found this book in the library, and I have never even heard Dinotopia before.
and this book does exactly that.
Had I come across this book in my teens, I would have been completely invested.
The artwork is gorgeous, the setting is detailed and unique.
It was a couple of small inconsistencies (why would they call dinosaurs by their modern Latin names?...), but I was willing to gloss over them for the sake of a truly original setting.
I don’t normally review children’s book, but I was recently reminded of this story that I read with my dad growing up.
This is a “MUST READ” for all kids and particularly fans of dinosaurs as far as I’m concerned.
What makes this book particularly good, however, is that the story goes beyond an (acknowledged) somewhat unrealistic premise.
All in all, I believe this is a book that both children and adults will enjoy.Who should read it?
All kids and fans of dinosaurs (of all ages!).See all my reviews and more at www.ReadingToDistraction.com and @Read2Distract
This is one of my favorite books to read and I love that I get to share it with my daughter.
The story is about Will and his father after this get into a ship wreck and land on an unknown island that they find out is filled with dinosaurs living with people in harmony.
It's their journey of getting to know the people, dinosaurs and their customs.
My favorite thing about this book is the wonderful drawn pictures and how detailed the book is.
This book is, in a word, extraordinary. The artwork is sublime in its beauty conjuring images of a land lost to time yet not so lost as to be forgotten. That is, it feels like the place could actually exist in our world. Also, Gurney's talent for historical illustration is evident in all of the paintings herein; the Dinosaur Abu Simbel is breathtaking. In terms of story, it is a great homage to Jules Verne's work and a moving tale of discovery in its own right. I will DEFINITELY be reading the sequels in the future.
I remember being a kid, looking at this in my local library. I was too young to read it, but would stare at the pictures, entranced, imagining what the story was. This weekend, I came across a copy in a used bookstore and decided it would be mine! I was not disappointed. For a grownup, this is a fast read - a fun introduction to a fantasy world where humans and dinosaurs live together in harmony. Of course, the illustrations are gorgeous.Similar title:Gnomes by Wil Huygen
One of the most visually captivating books we have ever read. The story is beautiful and tender. The illustration is true art. This is a wonderful book for children's imaginations!
I recently saw a twitter post that said something along the lines of “Every illustration in Dinotopia is a gift.” I couldn’t have said if better myself!
I adored this illustrated story as a child. Rereading it as an adult confirmed the enduring magnificence of the illustrations and also the story's powerful evocation of wonder. Gurney is far from a Darwinian ideologue. Much of the narrative seems to hint at a desire for a sort of Jeffersonian and Edenic world in which violence is eradicated and the pristinity of the natural world is retained even as a high civilization develops within it. And the obvious addition of dinosaurs makes this attractive to children, but it is far more than simply a children's story.
I owned a copy of this book as a kid and flipped through it countless times, to admire the beautiful illustrations. I never actually read it until this year, and what do you know? The writing is actually pretty great too. What's more the interplay between the images and the text is very well handled. The whole story is a great exercise in world building.
Amazing illustrations from one of my favourite stories.
When I was in primary school this book was one of my favourites in the library. I read it over and over and I especially adored the illustrations, which are stunning.
I love the setting of Dinotopia and this book is basically a setting book as while there is a story it goes into greater detail about everything. Describing the customs, the language, the regions, and even into the government it goes a little into everything. Also I love the style of the book to as it is given as if this was a real journal that someone found and it is done pretty well with some really cool artwork and the setting is really creative to.
The pictures are what make this book magical. So wonderful. Everytime we came to a 2 page spread, no text, we'd just look in awe. Even I would come back to them again while waiting to gather to read more. Really beautiful artwork. And a cute story.
1) Deutsche Rezension2) English Review 1) Deutsche Rezension Dieses Buch ist zu gleichen Teilen interessant und lächerlich. Und das so ziemlich von Beginn an.Sicher, der Autor konnte damals nichts von den „Federn“ auf einem Protoceratops wissen aber ich denke nicht, dass man es als leguanartig mit einem Papageienschnabel beschreiben kann. Zudem hat diese Insel eine Menge Tierarten aus allen möglichen Stellen der Erdgeschichte, wo man sich wirklich fragen muss, wie das möglich sein soll.Die Bilde
Zudem hat diese Insel eine Menge Tierarten aus allen möglichen Stellen der Erdgeschichte, wo man sich wirklich fragen muss, wie das möglich sein soll.Die Bilder sind von guter Qualität, das Buch hat einige nette Ideen (z.B. eierförmige Nester, die „Stühle“ etc.) aber manchmal musste ich mich schon wundern:Warum wurden auch Therapsiden und Archäosaurier (die keine Dinosaurier sind) mit hineingenommen?
It looks like a slightly modified hang glider and nothing else and the captain is also in the same place so how does he get it up with the weight of additional people?And even if the book pretends it to be nonsense, I can understand why Arthur Denison is slightly paranoid and Crabb thinks the island is a prison and people are the slaves of the dinosaurs.
I don't remember actually reading it (the first time), only having known that I had.
The story of the shipwreck and having to find a way to live on a deserted island has been the basis of many (many) of my dreams over the years and there is always something about those types of stories that draw me in immediately.The first book I remember reading (after the start of the fixation) that had the same idea was Dinotopia.
To get us back into the learning mood after recess, my teacher would read us a few pages of Dinotopia everyday (until she eventually had to move on to other books, since this isn't very long).
I fell in love with the gorgeous illustrations.
I fell in love with the world.
I follow this man on Instagram because I love his artwork so much.Eventually I need to buy this book in hardback, since my poor paperback is so well read that the pages are barely hanging together.
Re-reading this book as an adult has not lessened my love for it.
The journal entries, and accompanying art, document the lives of a father and son who, in the 1800s, survive being lost at sea.
The story has an old-world class to it and the journal style allows a lot of details to be worked into the book about how these two races live together.The art is the obvious focus of the book; it is superb.
Even if you don't like dinosaurs, get this book for the art alone.
Even if you don't like dinosaurs, get this book for the art alone.
It's worth it.Both the story and the art have a charm that is indescribably beautiful and full of heart.
The cover has a really nice virbrant painting.
If that wasn't good enough the painting wraps around to the spine and back of the book.
This really detracts from the overall appearance.
On the inner cover there is an inscription from grandma indicating the book was a birthday gift in 1994.
There is also what appears to be chocolate stains (what i hope are anyway) on the back cover that really mar the illustration on it.
It feels good in the hands and looks great on the shelf.Overall I give it 5 bandaged bix arms out of 5
I was so young when I first loved this book.
The illustrations are as beautiful as ever, and the depth of the world-building is enchanting as ever.
But the Meaning is what I love the most.
It really is about a Utopian society.
One of the laws of Dinotopia is "weapons are enemies, even to their owners," and such a simple truth rings true today.
Simply put, Children's books are the best books, for they use craft and art and single-minded interest in dinosaurs (among other things) to illustrate that common ground can always be found.
I was obsessed with dinosaurs when I was a child and although I've had this book since then and have seen bits and pieces of the TV show based on it, I'd never actually read the book until now. What a gorgeous, magical, rich and utterly believable world Gurney has created. I want to live atop an oak in Tree Town, fly through the skies on a Skybax and explore the caves of the World Beneath (in the next book, hooray). The artwork is superb and intricately detailed and the storytelling assured and inspired. Beautiful.
This was easily one of the most formative books of my childhood; every time I re-read it I get a lovely warm glow of nostalgia. The illustrations/paintings are remarkable, the story full of the same energy and whimsy and wonder of the great adventure classics like Journey to the Center of the Earth and Treasure Island, and the characters -- human and saurian -- are great. (But yeah, weren't the early 90s AMAZING for the dinosaur-obsessed? Jurassic Park, Dinotopia -- hell, even the Power Rangers had dinosaur-shaped Zords!)
I have fond memories of checking this book out from the library as a child. I bought this for my daughter so she can enjoy it too. "Dinotopia" is a great little fantasy, beautifully illustrated, about an island in the Pacific where humans and dinosaurs have lived together for thousands of years. The book is written in the style of a nineteenth century scientist's field journal, which only adds to the fun. There is some warmed-over subtext about living in harmony with nature, or something like that, but: pterodactyl riders!
I received this book as a gift from my mom. I love children's books. This is wonderfully told and illustrated!! I have read this book several times to my 6th grade advisory kids. I have created quizzes and projects to go along with it. One project was to have each student draw their best tree houses. The art has been amazing.
I absolutely LOVE this book!!! I got it when I was about 3years old and forced my parents to read it a thousand times before I was able to read it on my own. This was the book that really motivated me when learning to read was boring. Even now I still read it at least once a year and it never gets boring. I'd be surprised if there is a kid that doesn't like this book.
