https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530773.Corregidora
All Ursa has are the blues and her beautiful voice which changes after her tragedy: "It sounds like you been through something.
And when it comes time to hold up the evidence, we got to have evidence to hold up."It’s interesting about the body being memory that has been touched on in so many books, it's even more interesting that Ursa's memories of her mother and grandmother are perhaps just as strong as her own memories: “It was as if their memory, the memory of all the Corregidora women, was her memory too, as strong with her as her own private memory, or almost as strong." The story relies mostly on dialogue, both internal and external.
i felt comfort in this harrowing intergenerational storytelling of plantation sexual violence?
the text has a living body.
and of course a crucial plot point is the body as the medium of transmission of the story of us all.
the blackness of a ongoing living past is here precisely a feminist understanding bringing fullness to the partial enlightenment subject.
we live the stories that brought us to where we are.
this knowing seemingly defies literacy, and the beauty of her writing is a black feminist intervention on literary scholarship people use "economic" as a merit when describing black prose, and it kind of irritates me.
Jones looks back on the physical enslavement of black women through the generations of one family and draws comparisons with modern cycles of abuse between men and women.
This means Ursa cannot bear future generations and the novel revolves around her coming to terms with what has happened and the consequences:“I am Ursa Corregidora.
Tha's the first thing they would think about, cause if you had somebody who was a good fucker you have plenty to send out into the field, and then you could also make you plenty money on the side, or inside.”Ursa learns the secrets of the past gradually, over time, whilst she is herself being abused by two husbands.
I wanted a song that would touch me, touch my life and theirs. A Portuguese song, but not a Portuguese song. A new world song. A song branded with the new world. I thought of the girl who had to sleep with her master and mistress. Her father, the master. Her daughter's father. The father of her daughter's daughter. How many generations?  February has been good for relieving the drought in my state and bad at maintaining my mental health. The ongoing drought (ha) in my reviewing enforced by stud
Nevertheless, the rewards are many: another work I would not have purchased had I not been familiar with the 500 GBBW, a text which melds in coincidentally powerful ways with my critical thoughts on the structure that is intersectional social justice, and a meditation on the maelstrom that is misogynoir that takes all of the rape culture, all of the appropriative culture, all the gendered capitalism, all the performative respectability, all of the biology, all of the sir/sur in names, all of the history that will be kicking so long as white people think they're walking over its grave, and grits it out in 185 pages of truth, sex, and self-expression.
But was what Corregidora had done to her, to them, any worse than what Mutt had done to me, than what we had done to each other, than what Mama had done to Daddy, or what he had done to her in return, making her walk down the street looking like a whore?" Although the plot of Corregidora that drives forward focuses on desire and Ursa's romantic relationships, the real driving force of the novel is the past and its inescapability.
Given this, Ursa's responsibility, as handed down by her mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother, is to bear witness by bearing children and passing these lessons on to them.
Ursa, a blues singer is repeatedly told by her mother, grandmother and great-grandmother "to make generations" so that their suffering will never be forgotten.
She falls into abusive relationships with men and ends up having doctors performing hysterectomy on her.
On the one hand, we can hear the voice of Ursa's grandmother telling her about the plantation horrors.
On the other hand we hear Ursa's own voice and how she tries to deal with the pain.Despite this being a short book, many people have given up on it due to the dark matter.So once again, I stress that this is not for the faint-hearted.
If you've ever listened to blues, then you know the feeling this book will give you.
Set in the 1940s, Blues singer Ursa Corregidora is haunted by the past -- not so much her own, but rather the past of her great grandmother, her grandmother, and her mother.
Simon Corregidora, a slave owner, raped both Ursa's great grandmother and grandmother.
They obsessively tell the story of all this -- the rape, the torture, the abuse -- to Ursa's mother and to Ursa herself.
I realized today that the only reason I was pushing through this book was to say that I'd read it. But that's not enough reason to read nearly 200 pages, so I stopped somewhere after page 100. Everyone speaks so highly of it and of Gayl Jones as a writer. I might need to check out her other work because this one lost me on almost every other page.
I first read this novel more than 10 years ago and it became a favorite because I could easily identify it as a blues novel.
However, upon re-reading just a few days ago, I was reminded of why Gayl Jones is my favorite author.
The importance of history and "generations" is something that would have gotten past me years ago, but I see how it forms the central point of the novel now.
The story is told from Ursa's point of view, so the reader must step into her world.
From the time that Ursa Corregidora is able to listen, she is told by her great-grandmother that she must retain "the evidence" in order to pass it on to her children.
However, "the evidence" is an oral history of how her great-grandmother was raped and then used as a whore by her white slave owner, Corregidora, as was her daughter (Ursa's grandmother) after her.
Not only is this a disturbing history for a child to commit to memory, but her great-grandmother's resentment and distrust of men were also passed onto a young Ursa.Although Ursa had a black father, she resembles the Portuguese Corregidora.
Simon Corregidora was a Brazilian slave master who used his slaves as prostitutes and raped them so that they would bear his seed.
Father to both her mother and grandmother, Ursa Corregidora is his legacy.
“They burned all the documents, Ursa, but they didn’t burn what they put in their minds.
We got to burn out what they put in our minds, like you burn out a wound.
Except we got to keep what we need to bear witness.
That scar that’s left to bear witness.
We got to keep it visible as our blood.”
An explicit look at sexuality in some very tangled relationships; a rather twisted love story. There’s lots of pain here, paralyzing grief, crushing burdens from the past, an inability to determine one’s own desires, but I found it deeply satisfying. I love the immediacy, the straightforwardness of the writing style. Absolutely beautiful!!!
Corregidora! Wow! this is a powerful little novel. It's small in page numbers, and it is HUGE in theme. It is the epitome of Black women's fiction in under 250 pages. It is painful, it is uplifting; It is informative.This is a stellar effort while she was still in grad school. Quite Gayl Jones: Still waters run deep, for sure!Great Read!
An intense novel, terse as a modern lyric, a monologue organized around its central image: the three generations of women in the house, telling over and over to the child of the fourth generation the story of the brutal incestuous pimp and rapist slave-owner Corregidora, the father of the heroine's grandmother and her mother, hence the source of her surname.
Not to mention the novel's similarly unpleasant--arguably till the end--depictions of lesbians, from the slave-owning Corregidora's wife, who also sleeps with the enslaved women, to Urse's frenemies Cat and Jeffy.
In a similar style as Toni Morrison, this novel discusses the issues of feminine identity in the African-American culture just after the Emancipation.
My issues with this novel are the same I typically have with books by Morrison--I'm okay with feminist issues, I'm okay with racial issues, and I'm okay with sexual issues, but when you combine them, it tends to be a bit much.
I also find the profanity distracting rather than an aid to the novel.
Perhaps because of these reasons, I had a difficult time relating to or empathizing with any of the characters, let alone the protagonist.
A disturbing but beautiful novel that illuminates some of the psychological residue of slavery on the descendants of enslaved people. One thing that I also appreciate is the fact Jones's writing acknowledges that the legacy of New World slavery is a diasporic issue, shaping the historical trajectories of people throughout the Americas.
Rating: 3.5 stars
SIX WORD REVIEW: Slave and relationship history, the same.
devastating

This is a brutal book, to be sure, but I read it in one fell swoop, mainly because I knew I couldn't stand to dwell.Margo Jefferson's review is accurate:"History and fiction have yielded little about those black slave women who were mistress and breeder to their white owners.
There are some facts and figures, but they tell us nothing about the women themselves: their motives, their emotions, and the memories they passed on to their children.
Gayl Jones' first novel is a gripping portrait of this harsh sexual and psychological genealogy...Jones' language is subtle and sinewy, and her imagination sure.
Gayl Jones fulfills that pledge."
Usually, I'm quite swift in reviewing books, so it's a bit strange for me to come back to a book which I read in one sitting, not really feeling all that engaged by it in the first place.'Corregidora' is one of those books that is concerned with the legacy of slavery in American culture.
More specifically, 'Corregidora' is about those people with mixed heritage.
There's loads of people who have some sort of 'black heritage' in America, even if they don't look it.
The protagonist of the novel, Ursa, is a black blues singer who is trapped in an unhappy marriage.
Well, this book was going to get like a 3/3.5 rating from me until the last 2 pages.
But the real issue comes in the end, in the last two pages.I know that when we study and explain this book at class I'll get a better perspective and understanding and I may come back here and change the rating but for now, what I have understood from the last lines is a really bad advice or explanation of everything, in my opinion.
Maybe I'm crazy guys, but I don't understand ****.

Very difficult reading here ( or re-reading, as it is a book I read 25 yrs ago). I read my old paperback, pub 1986 and the James Baldwin quote on the front cover: Corregidora is the most brutally honest and painful revelation of what has occurred, and is occurring in the souls of Black men and womem". As a white woman it is way way too easy to forget my privilege. We live in such a hugely racist society, and human history is so damn brutal. There is so much to learn, to remember, to witness, to change.
Im not sure how I want to rate this. I want to give it a 5, and a 3. I would give it a 5, but it left me so confused and raw feeling. So maybe that makes it deserve the 5 actually. I dont know. But I think I have a literary answer for anyone who asks me why I study psychological issues related to WoC (women of color).
I'm very torn about how I feel about this book. The language is very vivid, and the story is at times very upsetting, but necessary as it gives voice to a story that needs to be told. I just don't like the ending. I don't understand how she goes back to her first husband.
This is an amazing, important book.
My apologies to any Gayl Jones fans but ... WTF?
Searing. My God.
