https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2141233.The_Illustrated_A_Brief_History_of_Time_The_Universe_in_a_Nutshell
Anyway, the leather cover immediately reminded me of my high school yearbook and the inside was like one of the funner Houghton Mifflin textbooks with pictures in the margins and whatnot.The chapter I found most intriguing was The Arrow of Time, which sounds like an awesome Doctor Who episode (and if it isn't, please make it one, Moffat!).
The chapters on Wormholes and Physics and The Unification of Physics were incredibly fascinating as well.Also included with this edition is The Universe in a Nutshell, and the title immediately makes me think of this:If ABHOT is like a university lecture, TUIAN is like having a drink with a professor after finals.
A Brief History of Time is stuff that can be introduced by a zillion TV documentaries nowadays, of course, but the benefit of the book is that it explains exactly why we know so much of what we know.
But there's a great, great many aspects to our world and even universe that are understood and explained with a better answer than simply, 'because'.
The depth and breadth of knowledge imparted by these two companion books is extraordinary and simply cannot be summed up shortly.
It truly takes someone like Stephen Hawking to condense the universe into a nutshell!
Stephen Hawking is a brilliant man whose greatest contribution to society is not his science, but his ability to write about difficult concepts in simple language. His sense of humor is greatly appreciated. Hawking makes learning fun!
One of the greatest minds, a reminder that it's easy to dismiss someone based on their ability to communicate or their disadvantages. I work in a Neuro theatre and often deal with people who due to illness or injury find it hard to respond, wonder how they feel I treated them.As for the book, love science and find black holes fascinating even if I had to read the book several times to understand exactly what professor Hawking meant.
There's a reason I never took physics...And that all of my science credits for my BA consist of studying the biographies of Copernicus, Galileo, and Einstein.This stuff is COMPLICATED, y'alls.I read Brief History of Time in high school as an assignment for Non-western Civilization from one of the best teachers I ever had.
But over all, Brief History is pretty understandable, and eye opening once you can wrap your mind around the concepts involved.Perhaps part of the problem comparing the two books is that relativity as a theory is over 100 years old.
Often science books use language that seems to want to repel people from being interested in the subject it's discussing where with this book, you get the sense that Hawking really wants people, and children to learn and understand the concepts that he's explaining.
A lot has been made out of intelligence and how children who don't understand or are interested in science or mathematics are not intelligent, where in reality we have to consider how the subject are being explained to them, and reevaluate how differently people perceive the world around them and learn.
Some nice updates since the publication of Brief History of Time, which I loved, but not much here for those of us looking for some satisfying extension of his earlier primer on theoretical physics.
His treatment of string theory piqued my curiosity, but ultimately led me to check out Brian Greene's Elegant Universe for a more extensive treatment of string theory.
I'm reading that now, and I'm seeing that Greene is a little better at finding the best metaphors for elucidating abstractions like these.
Didn't like the computer-generated graphics that served as illustrations.
Disappointments aside, Hawking does have a gift for explaining these theories and their bizarre implications for the general reader.
This was way harder to read than I would've thought, being a worldwide "popular science" bestseller.
It's probable that most people bought that book and just kept it on their coffee table to impress visitors.
Some stuff about black holes and the life of the universe simply blew my mind.
In the later chapters, I had a hard time distinguishing proper science form boundless speculations, but I guess that's the state of the art in quantum physics meeting general relativity (whew!).
Other chapters made me wish I was smarter, or at least better to envision n-dimensional objects!
Call me Codename: pea-brain (nerdy joke).
oooh... Pictures!
Hawking handles two examples: localized instances of the phenomenon resulting from the collapse of large stars, termed “black holes,” and the postulated explosion by which the universe might have begun – the “Big Bang.” In treating this last, he is careful to point out that though our current understanding of the laws of physics might take us right up the moment of the Bang, they are rendered meaningless at the singularity itself and thus we cannot speak scientifically about what might have come “before” (if the notion of time would even still apply) or speculate as to possible causes.
Identical cover but does not include "A Brief History Of Time", as shown in the photo...Different version, perhaps?)I had originally purchased a copy of "A Brief History of Time" many years ago at a used bookstore and it just sat on my bookshelf collecting dust.
Then, about 4 or 5 years ago I had purchased this illustrated "sequel", (which is really more of a revised/abridged version to the original, in my opinion) that I had found brand new and as hardcover on Amazon.
The full color illustrations throughout the pages in this book make what you're reading all the more fascinating.
Stephen Hawking explains the mysteries of the universe in a way that the layman can comprehend.
However, Hawking takes great care to prevent a backlash from this understanding: Did the universe begin the way it did for the sole purpose of allowing creatures like us to exist?
If we take the anthropic principle too far, we are using science to support divine creation and thus undermining the quest to understand nature.The book is divided into topical chapters (Space and Time, Black Holes, the Uncertainty Principle, etc.) There is also a second, less clearly defined division: the history of human understanding of the universe, support for one of Hawking's theories (the no boundary principle), and finally a hopeful conclusion.
However, I think Hawking does a good job explaining things in ways most people can understand, to a point.
I am reading Hawking’s Brief History of Time (1996) very slowly because not having a science background it’s like reading in a foreign language which I only partly understand, similar to my reading in Russian.
After having struggled through these chapters I was shocked to hear the science news on January 22, 2014 from Professor Hawking that "The absence of event horizons means that there are no black holes, in the sense of regimes from which light can't escape." (Charles Q.
Hawking concludes with brief outlines about Einstein, Galileo, Newton and he stands with them, as if, which reminds me of Dante.
On the one hand, it's a needed addition to the world to have an approachable tome on quantum theory and relativity.
And the addition of illustrations helps *some*, though not as much as you'd think.The problem, I have to say, lies with Stephen Hawking himself.
I can't help but think this is one more attempt to make every scientist in the world, EXCEPT Stephen Hawking, look bad.4) His choice of illustrations is weak.
To whit: Stephen Hawking, by telling me how great he is and how awful other scientists are, has proven what a jerk he himself is.
After having my mind stretched nearly to the point of having all preconceived notions torn apart, I emerge into an "elsewhere", as if into a parallel universe (or some other place and time of our own).In other words, I learned a few things from this book.
That said, some entry-level interest in these things, and certainly a great degree of patience with some of the more complicated matter are required to persevere through this book.
Several concepts/fields still remain fuzzy and require further exploration for me (e.g., the intricacies of quantum mechanics and string-theory), but overall this is fascinating stuff.What is more, the computer-generated illustrations were remarkable and often, though not always, helpful.This review is for "A Brief History of Time".
I would also include elementary students in that recommendation but Hawking at a couple of different points mentions Penthouse magazine and gambling and hell and I just don't think that's age appropriate for 10 year olds.
For instance, in the section discussing the arrow of time there's a big picture of a cosmic-y looking hourglass that takes up an entire page.
I think it would be better to show examples of the equations used to formulate some of the theories he mentions.
Sure most people, myself included, wouldn't know what all the symbols and numbers represented exactly but at least they could get used to looking at these ideas in a more precise and meaningful format.
Stephen Hawking is one of the greatest scientists of our generation.
And this book shows not only his breadth of knowledge, but also his uncanny ability to explain even the most esoteric of concepts in simple, sometimes humorous language.
Though the book is slightly outdated, it is a good primer for "what scientists believe about the universe today." It is a survey, so many times it does not go too in depth.
There were many chapters that left me scratching my head.
I seriously admire Stephen Hawking.
I've only read the first of the two books in this volumne but BHofT literally blew my mind.
I'm glad I bought the illustrated version because the graphs and diagrams helped me to understand a lot of the concepts that would otherwise have been incomprehensible.
I admit there were times when the technical aspects of the book found me nodding off and there were more than a few pages that I had to read at least 3 times before I understood what the hell it was talking about...but overall this book totally changed my outlook on the universe.
Stephen Hawking is a great genius . The man who is always thinking and spending his time to know the aspect's of Time , Light , speed , e.t.c. This is a great book which explained and questioned a lot . For many of the questions we don't have precise answer related to Universe ,Galaxy, Star , Bigbang theory. I have questioned a lot to myself like Anything can travel faster than light, if it happens how would be the time relativity for that object.
I definitely enjoyed A Brief History of Time more than The Universe in a Nutshell. I found it more accessible and enjoyable to read. But I learned a lot of stuff reading both of these and I'm really glad I chugged my way through them. The illustrations in this edition really made it easier to follow along to. I think if I'd read this in a purely text book, I would have gotten lost. The pictures give a nice break to those of us reading a little out of our depth.
This was a amazing book to read if you are interested in science beyond a basic level. I found my self captivated for hours reading this book. Even so it still it took me a couple of times to read to fully understand everything that goes on.
I can't help but think how really small we are in the universe. Excellent. Saw Mr Hawking's speak at Cal State LA many years ago. Was overwhelmed by him.
Popularization of the current research in physics. Black holes, M-Theory, etc...
Not exactly easy/pleasure reading, but written with clear language and bountiful examples.
I think this is a great read especially the illustrated version. Reading this was more benefecial than any physics class ive taken.
Ese gran sueño útopico de muchos seres humanos, entre otras interrogantes más.Este grandioso libro resuelve muchas de mis interrogantes, explica teorías científicas, la teoría del big bang, la gran explosión que dío inicio al universo, la historia de las creencias, por ejemplo de filósofos hindúes que aseguraban que el mundo era un plato plano sostenido por cuatro elefantes que a su vez estaban sostenidos sobre una gran tortuga; como los descubrimientos expuestos a travéz del tiempo, les costo la vida a muchos científicos, ya que la iglesia católica en la antigüedad los consideraba herejes.
for the masses.Unlike Newton's groundbreaking scientific treatise, A Brief History of Time doesn't contain Hawking's own body of scientific work, but rather an overview of the development of theoretical physics, including relativity and quantum mechanics.
It's well worth reading, but it's also perfect for keeping in the living room—you can always open it up to an interesting illustration and show off your physics knowledge!In fact, I would go so far as to say that understanding these two concepts (that there may be more than four dimensions, and that curvature in three dimensions is a straight line in four or more) contributes to an understanding of the majority of this book.
He rectifies this in The Universe in a Nutshell, providing a much more comprehensive look at how general relativity might allow time travel.
I can understand the theories well enough, for the most part, to read books like this. I've never been much of a mathematician though so the numbers behind it just kind of slide away. Still very interesting stuff. And I loved Hawking's dry humour.
This combined edition is full of wonderful illustrations that add and help in understanding the text.
what is time and space?
