https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27774758-an-ember-in-the-ashes
“This life is not always what we think it will be,” Cain says. “You are an ember in the ashes, Elias Veturius. You will spark and burn, ravage and destroy. You cannot change it. You cannot stop it.” I think a lot of people will understand me when I say that the best kind of books are those that provoke strong emotions in you. My favourites are made up of books that filled me with happy excitement or, alternatively, books that ripped my heart out and made me cry. An Ember in the Ashes, however,
Elias - the son of the Commandant - makes up the other perspective in this book.Initially, I drew some comparisons between this and Legend, but though I liked the latter, I still don't think it's anywhere near as compelling, interesting, fast-paced or evil as this book.
I loved the use of prophecies and the way Elias has to try and understand what they mean in order to do the right thing.
Such a great read and I can see people eating it up and being desperate for more.The book is rounded off well and is supposed to be a standalone, but there's room for more here and I'd love to see the author revisit this story and these characters.
I'm glad the sequel is officially happening, because I need more!I thought both main characters were great.
I did prefer Elias' chapters because they were more action packed, though Laia went through some excellent character development!
As for secondary characters/the romances, I wasn't a huge fan of Keenan, but I loved Helene!
I can't wait to see how this develops in future books because WE ARE DEFINITELY GETTING ANOTHER BOOK YAY.Overall, this was an awesome read!
Probably the best debut novel I've read in a while, and I'm really looking forward to discussing this in the liveshow!
An Ember in the Ashes is truly a unique and captivating book that I recommends everybody reads! Cannot wait for the second book in this series =D
HOLY SMOKES THAT WAS GOOD. I'm sososo happy that there's going to be a sequel. I'D BE SO MAD IF THEY JUST LEFT ME HANING LIKE THAT. YOU CAN'T DO THAT. YAY FOR SEQUELS. *throws confetti*
4.5 This book is totally going to have a sequel.
I had been under the impression that my initial review explained my thoughts in enough depth, but apparently not; apparently my opinions on this book and why I did not like it were not clear enough for some people, who continue to feel obliged to enter the comments and explain to me as if I am a fucking idiot why this book was GREAT.
You fucking asked.
So in two weeks there will be a new review of this book for all of you to enjoy and that will hopefully penetrate the senseless WALL of arrogance that that some of this series' stans have surrounded themselves with.
Really enjoyed this one!!! Flew through it - here's my booktalk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iUzvC... =D
3 1/2 stars. The field of battle is my temple. The swordpoint is my priest. The dance of death is my prayer. The killing blow is my release. An Ember in the Ashes is THE book I was looking most forward to in 2015. I can’t say that I’m completely pleased with the way it turned out, because, being my most anticipated title, I naively envisioned this to be P-E-R-F-E-C-T-I-O-N or, at least, perfectly enjoyable. But, don’t worry, Sabaa Tahir clearly did a fine job at putting together an intensive ser
But, don’t worry, Sabaa Tahir clearly did a fine job at putting together an intensive series of events that superbly form a story.
A story that will grip.We follow the path of two main characters: Laia and Elias.
‘‘Don’t tell me you believe in myths of junn and efrits and wraiths that kidnap children in the night?’’‘‘No.’’ I think of the raid.
‘‘I don’t need to believe in the supernatural.
I look up at the stars hanging low in a sky that makes me think I’m seeing the infinite.
the price of living is steep.this book is doing a lot of work - it's a fantasy novel, but it's also addressing very important themes of oppression, literacy as power, the dangers of history repeating itself, compassion, the distinction between loyalty and thinking for yourself, the double sidedness of power, and that "right" and "wrong" are subjective and can be a matter of perspective.
(because it is usually a girl) with this book, the notions of choice and destiny come into play in various ways throughout the story, with an emphasis on the impact of choice upon one's character.
“The field of battle is my temple. The swordpoint is my priest. The dance of death is my prayer. The killing blow is my release.”  One word.E*X*P*L*O*S*I*V*E*Dear Book Gods,I beg you to forgive me for not reading this masterpiece sooner. I will graciously accept any punishment you deem appropriate. I would also like to thank you for bringing this book into my life. You guys rock!Sincerely, Sabaa Tahir's new stalker fan The story   “You are full, Laia. Full of life and dark and strength and spi
Laia and her family try not to stick out, until her brother is arrested for treason and the only way to make the Resistance set him free is to become their spy within Blackcliff, the infamous military academy that breeds human weapons, the Masks, whose only purpose is death and destruction.
“You are an ember in the ashes, Elias Veturius.
An Ember in the Ashes is one of those books.
Both of them have another love interest that makes them confused, but I strongly believe they are mere distactions, a way to show that Elias and Laia come from different worlds and there are people who are more suitable for them, but the attraction and connection between them is off the charts and simply, they belong together.
My original review for this book consisted of the following statement:Ugh. So boring.And for some reason those three words have kinda pissed peeps off and landed me in some hot water elsewhere.
Publishers love getting bloggers involved in campaigns to help promote their books because it's a fantastic way to generate hype and buzz for a title.
Things like this was worthy of an eyebrow raise because Laia was attempting to spy on the most dangerous person in the story, The Commandant, knowing that their previous spies were tortured and killed.
Still, since this is a 2-star review, there are some things that I did like.
This review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the Books.This book was amazing.
Sabaa Tahir, I love you.An Ember in the Ashes has been hovering on my to-read list ever since it's release about a year ago.
It got a lot of praise, a lot of hype, and it's all totally warranted.
It even earned a spot on my 'favourites' list.Laia's grandparents are murdered and her brother taken prisoner; her only course of action is to join the resistance against the empire to save her brother.
Elias is a soldier for the empire, but wants nothing more than to desert.
This one will be popular.
This book will destroy you.(PS: Elias is mine shhhh no one understands him like I do)
i am going to take the whole ‘new year, new me’ to heart, beginning with not waiting YEARS to read a book that everyone has told me to read.
i was very much impressed with the world building - this introduced a lot of different aspects, and whilst not everything immediately affected the plot of this particular book, i felt like there was so much set-up for an amazing series to come.
i was immediately hooked and drawn into the story.
Well, she’ll give you a minute or two, then it’s back to chaos again, AND IT WAS AWESOME!I can’t believe this was actually intended to be a standalone at first.
I still want more, but this book has set up the world and the characters really well and I can’t wait to see how this will progress in further books.
Laia’s POV came across slightly insecure, but I’m assuming that voice was intended.
I’m hoping for more brutality in the next 2 books.
Seems like Sabaa Tahir is destroying her readers with her latest book and I want to be part of it.
There had better be a sequel for this book!
Penguin, you can't just leave us hanging there!The first few chapters are absolutely riveting (you can read an excerpt here, btw: http://www.mtv.com/news/2051414/exclu...), and the cruel, merciless world these characters inhabit is well drawn.
The feel of this book reminded me of the Legend trilogy, actually, though I think Ember is more complex in plot, characters, and setting.
It's fantasy that feels a bit dystopian, which is pretty interesting.
I'm mulling over a couple of major points that I think could have made this book better (view spoiler)[one of which involves complicated romantic entanglements (hide spoiler)], but overall I enjoyed this very much.
Buddy reread with my baby,  Hayley! WOW is all i have to say right now.I'll edit my review later. ------------------------------------------ “Once, i'd have wanted someone to tell me what to do, to fix everything. Once, I'd have wanted to be saved." WOW! I really don't know what to say without spoiling everything. The beginning was a little slow but what came after was totally worth it!... Who said this is a stand-alone novel?? HELLO? Did you miss that heart wrenching ending? There is no way in
There is no way in hell.Elias, Laia, Keenan, and Helena are are main characters.
I won't be talking about the plot because i don't want anyone getting spoiled.
First half of the book i couldn't stand him!
Loved how he helped Laia when nobody was there for her.
I loved Laia, she wasn't kick ass or sharp witted.
If Laia is too week for your taste then Helena is your girl!
I hated how she treated Laia just because she is a slave.
Her ending broke my heart into tiny little pieces!KeenanKeenan is with resistance, second in command!
Reread May 2018: 5 stars easily.
SO much better the second time around omfg4.5 stars!!
OHHHMYYYYGOOOOODDDD Even though it took me about 100 pages to actually start understanding and enjoying the book, I STILL LOVED IT!
As I was reading I kept imagining Laia as the girl on that famous Nat Geo magazine with the bright eyes and IT MADE THE EXPERIENCE SO MUCH BETTER.
I loved how both Laia and Elias developed in this book!
(Though I did enjoy Elias' POV more at most parts, maybe just because it was more action packed.) And the worldbuilding, AHHHH.
Maybe the hype train altered my expectations for this one or maybe I'm entering a dreaded slump, but I think I'm going to put this one down for now and try to come back to it when I'm not feeling so distracted.
courage and Honor..Izzat ;Which an Arabic word means proving yourself Honored, Loyal and Brave..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a personal issueFor me there's always something wrong with a YA novel..a tiresome pace, too much coincidences, silly love story, too young characters to do all this, unimaginable world set, too much unnecessary characters, RANT, lots and lots of rants in every topic.Sometimes I feel some authors only interested in the category only...only females under 21 allowed.Well, not in this case, as a male reader over 30 I can probably say I enjoyed this novel as I never had with a YA since 2013’s The Diviners..may be a little bit more-they're both totally different anyway.-And with the uniqueness of this one I can say it's one of my best reads ever along with Harry Potter, Game of Thrones series..here is a solid 5 stars Novel..I'll try to review without too much rant about how perfect the writing is.
An Ember in the Ashes is a deceptively simple read.
Short chapters and the youthful viewpoints might put this book firmly in the Young Adult category.
But the questions considered in this book are the very questions that must be considered as one moves into adulthood.
An Ember in the Ashes pits the false security of submission against the terrifying price of gaining choice.
Set in an oppressive society, the two view point characters could not be more different in status, nor more alike in their subjugation.
Some sort of danger was always brewing and I never knew what was going to happen next.The story centers on Laia, a young lady who lives under the terrifying rule of the Martial Empire.
Few dare to resist.Among the most feared of the emperor's forces are the specially trained soldiers known collectively as the "Masks".
Laia manages to escape, but lives with unbearable guilt for being such a coward.Determined to rescue her brother and make up for abandoning him at the time of his arrest, Laia sets out to find the Resistance.
However, I am so glad I pushed through the beginning of this book because boy did this get so much better.There's this shitload of info dump and slow, boring plot towards the beginning that made me want to shoot myself in the head because fuck, man, I don't need so much info dump and boredom right at the beginning!!!
The writing and character's were extremely uninteresting and dull and I simply could not care and found myself skimming through the shit that was the first 200(??) pages of this book.
His POV for the first 50% of this book was also uninteresting and boring.
So here are a few better-fitted words to drive my point across- Amazing, alluring, addictive, awestruck, captivating, fantastic, powerful, wonderful, etc...
It's a horrifyingly terrible place, that is run by fear and death.
A world of loyalties, lines crossed, futures foretold, treachery and of course the Resistance.
Masks are to be feared but Elias is different from the rest.
I LOVE him so so so much ;) An Ember in the Ashes surpasses all the hype and I highly recommend this book/series to everyone looking for something dark and that will draw you in completely.
Let it remind you of who you want to be.
HOLY SHIT
Nope.I know Sabaa Tahir hardly received any criticism and absolutely everybody is amazed.Not me.I'm the opposite of amazed.For starters, the concept is ancient.
Sabaa Tahir was not.Next thing, the characters are shallow.
There is no character depth in Laia, nor Elias, nor in anyone else.
I know this is a debut novel, but sadly it also reads like one.I don't understand this hype, this rating, this book.
This is my most disappointing read of 2015.And I know it comes as a total shocker - I won't even touch the sequel.Find more of my books on Instagram
THIS REREAD WAS EVEN MORE EPIC THAN THE FIRST READ IN 2014. Love this book and the audiobook was AMAZING. My first audiobook ever. Off to go read/listen to A TORCH AGAINST THE NIGHT for the first time!
However this was so unexpected and now it's one of my new favourites and I could cry with happiness, because of how much I loved this, but I'll stop rambling and try and write a review, even though in my head I'm thinking I need A Torch Against the Night right now.
I'm looking forward to reading about her in the next book!What I liked?- I have a soft spot for Izzi and Cook, and I need to know EVERYTHING, back stories included.- TRIALS!
