https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1223795.May_Day
A very interesting and relevant story, brilliantly written, in which poor people drink with their enemies and then attack their own well-wishers, and rich people prioritize champagne with breakfast over helping friends in serious trouble. I think everyone should read this. It will give you a memorable intellectual reference point for any time you take a look at society/politics.
Una prosa delicata che descrive le rivolte del dopoguerra Americano.Consigliato!
Look, we all know that Fitzgerald can knock out a story, so let's just assume that this is pretty well written.
The blurb says that this is Fitzgerald's most overtly political story, and I buy that.
What I wasn't expecting is how current it felt--reading May Day was exactly like watching old episodes of West Wing.
I kept thinking, Oh, this is still an issue today!
Obviously the details have changed.
We have fewer socialist Rabbis yelling in the streets, for example (I think.
I haven't been to New York in a couple of years).
I read this because of the title.
It's set on May Day 1919 (and was published the following year) and I thought it might make a nice read as I prepare for May Day 2018.
Turns out the story doesn't have much to do with May Day per se.
There is a political theme of class tension that runs throughout, and the fact that it's May Day seems to be provocation enough for a riot at the office of a radical press.
He introduces a raft of characters, none sympathetic and most intoxicated, and weaves together three interlocking stories over the course of a day or two in New York City.
An interesting read. I was easily and quickly pulled in at the beginning. It is clearly a Fitzgerald book based with his very clear and distinctive way of describing people and settings. It goes through the course of two days with a cast of people. (Almost) each chapter switches to a new character after having passed/had an interaction with a previous chapter. I enjoyed it because I don't often read novellas. The ending was much more abrupt and sadder than I had expected or anticipated. This book definitely fits in after a post-WWI time.
Always love Fitzgerald. Novella quick read and delightful.
SIX WORD REVIEW: So that's why he is famous...
Review initially published on my blog, Writing by Numbers,  here.It has come to my attention that some people understand the word “decadent” to be a purely positive term, mostly reserved for chocolate cake.
If that’s you, get your hands on some Fitzgerald, stat.Folks, decadence isn’t just luxury.
Nobody brings this concept to life better than Fitzgerald.
At times Fitzgerald is dryly funny, loading up characters with innocuous dialogue that doubles as incisive social commentary.
But the momentum comes from lives spiraling out of control in the disorientation of post-WWI New York.The pocket-sized volume is part of Melville House’s series devoted to showcasing novellas in minimalist bold-colored covers.
Each review contains exactly 213 words.
The country was euphoric that the war was over, but while the future looked bright for some it didn't look so appealing for others.Fitzgerald taps into the hysteria as the 'Smart Set' of Yale graduates and moneyed 'flappers' dance the night away at swanky Delmonico's while disenfranchised returning soldiers cause a riot at the offices of the socialist New York TrumpetResult: everyone gets sozzled, tragedies and pranks do the Charleston.A quintessential tale of the Jazz Age.Sample:Dean emerged from the bathroom polishing his body."Saw an old friend of yours last night," he remarked.
She's still sort of a pretty doll—you know what I mean: as if you touched her she'd smear."This story has plenty of smear.
I had a hard time reading this, and it took me several days to push through.
Scott Fitzgerald.
It's a side of Fitzgerald readers don't get much- it seemed personal and, yeah, maybe a little angry.
But ultimately, this felt like I was reading something very close to Fitzgerald's heart and soul more than any of his other works.
I think a person could study it very close, and walk away with a better understanding of Fitzgerald than even Gatsby, perhaps.
I think it could be used just the same as a study of people, of culture, of the aftermath of war.
A novella based happenings in an Ohio town, but this story interweaves several plot lines in New York City. It's meshes together so well, in a style I feel like no one did until the 2000s. The characters feel like Fitzgerald's usually do - some reach, some very poor, some ex-soldiers, some beautiful, bored girls, and always, in true style, saying so much without coming out and just saying it. Fitzgerald really is a portrait artist. He doesn't tell you what to think or feel or understand, he just talks and you get the message.
This beautifully packaged series of classic novellas includes the works of Anton Chekhov, Colette, Henry James, Herman Melville, and Leo Tolstoy. These collectible editions are the first single-volume publications of these classic tales, offering a closer look at this underappreciated literary form and providing a fresh take on the world's most celebrated authors.
In questo racconto emergono tutti i temi ricorrenti nei libri di Fitzgerald: musica, alcool, denaro, eccessi. Il racconto prende le mosse dal ricordo, che viene, però, ben presto abbandonato nel turbinio del presente vissuto dai personaggi. Si tratta di un libro intenso, dal ritmo incalzante e imprevedibile.
A short and interesting story
I had always been a bit wary of Fitzgerald's short stories; a bit too long, a bit too wordy and a bit too dated- thank god I got over that! This story is by turns funny, tragic, critical and caustic. If you want to put a wry smile on a beautiful day read this- but read with caution because it could leave scars on you outlook and soul.
I bet Fitzgerald wrote this short novel while he was drinking an entire bottle of bad liquor. Characters seems like all the same. However, this is the first Fitzgerald's ambitious project ever. He tried, at least his narrative improved with this exercise.
{4.5} Packs a punch!
Wow. I did not expect that ending at all. I had to read that part twice just to take in what happened. No build up. Just happened out of nowhere.
Embora encare o futuro com entusiasmo, a sociedade norte-americana está mudada, os rapazes que partiram para a guerra já não são as mesmas pessoas, a instabilidade política é agravada pelo confronto de ideias e receio pela infiltração comunista, resultando em tumulto e protesto.
Outro par de soldados, Key e Rose, apesar de não exibirem os melhores escrúpulos, parecem-nos perdidos, sem saber que posição da sociedade lhes compete.
Com um final muito forte, o compadecimento pela tragédia em May Day não nos é instintivo e o seu impacto pode passar-nos ao lado devido à fraca ligação aos personagens.
There’s the main protagonist, Gordon Sterrett, a Yale man who finds himself in very dire financial straits after the war, and who calls upon his old friend, Philip Dean, for financial assistance.
It really did feel like a subtle setup of all the themes that Fitzgerald revisits in his later work: luxury, despair, love, a changing world.
I didn’t love any of the characters which sort of separated me from the novel, but the ending had me reeling, and pondering the effects of a grand despair.I would definitely recommend this book to any lover of modern literature or of Fitzgerald.
For in that instant they quite suddenly and definitely hated each other.and:The entire mental pabulum of these two men consisted of an offended nasal comment extended through the years upon the institution--army, business, or poorhouse--which kept them alive and toward their immediate superior in that institution.
The weakness of the story is likely shared with other Fitzgerald stories: none of the characters are likeable enough for the tragedy to really matter but that doesn't mean it's not a fine bit of writing.
Americans earned there way to their class level but then there was (and still is) the problem of the youth, the ones who didn't earn their way into the social position they find themselves.Anyway this story revolves around several groups of people from different walks of life who all ultimately intermingle one fateful May Day evening and the reader is thrown into their mindsets, thoughts and actions when given the freedom to act of their own free will.
I think the person most injured in this whole tale is the poor woman who had the unfortunate fate of falling in love with the young college man.
But both of them can just write about the most innocuous things, yet I will voraciously read it, speedily I might add, and thoroughly enjoy it.
The flow of the conversations coupled with the selective and minimal word choice is what leads to this I believe.Now May Day is not quite so "boring" of a book, in that a fair share of events do occur, including the very dramatic end.
And my oh my I thought Fitzgerald wrapped up the book excellently!
And it is his definitive ending that gives this book the push over the edge of excellence for me.
I was struck as I read this story by its similarity to the writing of J.D. Salinger, and the ending to May Day only confirmed the resemblance, partiularly to Salinger's early post-war story A Perfect Day for Bananafish.
The second half of the story is pretty sparse writing, more in the style of Hemingway, Ernest, but still packs a punch.
I enjoyed it as a piece of writing, but I couldn't say what was good about it - the whole was better than the sum of its parts.
We've been reading short stories by Fitzgerald in class and while I love the way he writes, the stories are often boring- either because he recycles the same plot (poor boy, rich girl) over and over again or because of the length (I even struggled through the more crazy "A Diamond the Size of the Ritz").
Because the action is taking place in the present and we switch around so often between characters, and also because of the setting evoked, Fitzgerald's writing and his talent for showcasing the 1920s are at their best.
'Dit is geen verslag van de veranderingen van de stad maar van de veranderingen in het gevoel van deze schrijver over de stad,' schrijft Fitzgerald in het essay Mijn verdwenen stad.
Maar onschuld is geen doel op zich en terwijl onze geest tegen wil en dank rijper werd, begonnen we New York te zien zoals het was en probeerden er iets van te bewaren voor degenen die we onvermijdelijk zouden worden.' (p.148 & 150) Een dag in mei is zo'n bewaarsel, een weergave van gebeurtenissen die zich misschien niet hebben voorgedaan, maar zich wel zo konden afgespeeld hebben zoals beschreven in deze novelle.
Being a sincere admirer of Fitzgerald , I am pained to say that this story didn't really live up to my expectations , and on the contrary, left me somewhat disappointed with the abrupt and dramatic ending .
I could see glimpses of the beautiful author that he was to become in the later years here and there in this novella , but could not really feel for the characters much .
But I just couldn't feel it wholeheartedly.
Maybe this will change if and when I reread the story.
"May Day" was superb in just about every way a literary piece should be; beautiful language, clear tone and effective yet concise character development.
Each character presented a particular attitude reflecting the current social climate of an ended war; an event of such magnitude that would effect even the most passive of people.
But what I found most interesting, again, was Fitzgerald's seemingly hopeless tone.
The greatest war of the time had been won and what was going to change?
Whose lives were going to be better?
This is the first multi-focused story by Scott Fitzgerald with a bigger amount of characters than the usual; "his first great novella".(view spoiler)[It is although mostly concentrated on Gordon Sterrett's life - a young student at Yale who is experiencing big financial issues and tries to get help from his friend, Dean.
This leads to another plot thread - the events of Dean and his friend Peter (later Mr In and Mr Out).
There are also presented the events of Edith - a young, rich woman who was in love with Gordon before and thinks she still loves him.
Surprised this one isn't talked about more.
The same elements of opulence, regret and fatalism, but in different proportions.
The slight political bent and the NYC setting gives it more of a foothold in reality, too.
The doomed protagonist seems a little less ephemeral than Amory Blaine, and his foils exhibit a more subtle immortality.
"Damn good looking.
She's still sort of a pretty doll-you know what I mean: as if you'd touch her she'd smear." [9:]"To Dean the struggle was was significant, young, cheerful; to Gordon it was dismal, meaningful, endless." [20:]"Any floor," said Mr. In."Top floor," said Mr. Out."This is the top floor," said the elevator man."Have another floor put on," said Mr. Out."Higher," said Mr. In."Heaven," said Mr. Out.
