https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/802001.Maigret_Sets_a_Trap
کتاب خوبی بود و من دوستش داشتم موضوع قتل ها کاملا روانشناسی بود. سیمنون واسه مخاطب ارزش قائله توضیحات صفحه پر کن نمیده خلاصه همه چی میگه. البته اگر دوستانی که در نقد واردتر هستن ابن کتاب رو بخونن اشکالاتی در همین قضیه خلاصه طور بود کتاب میگیرن. اولین مگره بود که میخوندم و صد البته ازش بیشتر هم خواهم خواند.
I gobble Maigret mysteries up like a bowl of chocolate.This mystery is about a serial killer.
Someone is killing women in Montmartre.
They are murdered around the same time at night in the same neighborhood.
Who is doing it and why?The story largely circles around the psychology of a serial killer.
And why does this particular murderer kill only women in a certain place at a certain time?
This is what Maigret, using the principals of psychology plans to find out.Of course he does and the result is interesting, but you'll have to read the book to find out for yourself.
Maigret Sets a Trap (1955) is about a serial killer who stabs plump women in Montmartre with a pen knife and slashes their clothing.
We never really get into his mind in any of the stories.
We, as it were, stand next to him and watch his mind and instincts at work.
In fact, at the end of Maigret Sets a Trap, we hear his monologue, as he is not quite willing to admit that his prime suspect was not, in fact, the killer.
How he solves the case is nothing short of brilliant -- and, typically, instinctive.
Paris is gripped by a fear that anyone female could be the next victim and the police seemingly devoid of ideas, short on clues and meaningful leads.The book starts with an arrest, perhaps not everything is as it seems and down to subterfuge and Maigret’s own intuition.
The professor has his own ideas and the conversation perhaps gives Maigret the courage of his convictions to carry his plan forward and Set a Trap.This use of female police officers to go undercover and help draw out the killer is common today in the detective genre.
Simenon was ahead of his time. The psychological approach is similar to today's crime novels. I like Maigret: he's just a clever detective solving crimes. The writing is crisp; the book is short. No pyrotechnics, very little soap opera about the detective. Boisson cette fois: un blanc Vichy.
There's no sitting and contemplating the crime and the psychological aspects of the criminal over countless meals and drinks in Parisian bars here, instead you get an internal self-analysis of Maigret himself as he doubts his abilities as a detective and specifically his decision making in the case of the 18th Arrondissement slasher and his last ditch attempt to draw the killer out.
For fans of the detective and the books he is featured in this would be a welcome addition, much like the meta-fictional Maigret's Memoirs, but coming to this story first would surely give you the wrong idea about the series, not to mention the fact that TV cannot do internal self-analysis and doubt justice, so what were they thinking?
Un Maigret a tinte forti, che a differenza di altri inizia subito nel cuore delle indagini: in sei mesi sono state uccise cinque donne per le strade di Montmartre, sempre alla stessa ora e con le stesse modalità, senza che tra le vittime vi sia un collegamento.
Maigret sta trascorrendo un’estate pessima, depresso e preoccupato per il fallimento delle indagini finora svolte, finchè gli viene un’idea per dare una svolta alla vicenda.
L’esito sembra favorevole, ma come sempre non aspettiamoci la soluzione classica del caso, con il colpevole che confessa inchiodato dalle prove a suo carico.
A first-rate Maigret, with the usual feel of Paris, its characteristics and characters, but this time majoring on the psychology of a serial killer and how Maigret uses his understanding to trap the murderer.The GR blurb:‘It is a hot and steamy summer, and Maigret is hatching a plan to capture a serial murderer by playing on the killer's perverse vanity.
He finally succeeds when an important clue leads him to a trio of suspects.
But the three are entangled in a web of guilt and possessiveness so tight that the unraveling nearly exhausts the Inspector--until, at last, he discovers the tortured motives behind the murders.’
Maigret's friend Pardon introduces him to a psychiatrist who helps him profile the serial killer, so to speak, and provides the theory which leads to the setting of the trap.
Without introducing a spoiler, I think I can say that Maigret's second trap, in the form of one of his famous group interviews, reveals the killer in a dramatic fashion and is the best thing in the book.
Jérome, who writes on trussel.com, has posted photos and a google map of the locations of the murders in this book.
Fun if you are a map junkie!http://www.trussel.com/maig/momten.ht...
The novel takes the reader to Paris in early August.
At the headquarters of the Police Judiciaire at Quai des Orfèvres, Inspector Maigret feels very much like a man under siege.
The press, sensing that a big story is about to break, have made themselves like permanent fixtures in the police station.
Maigret has been hard pressed to determine who the murderer could be, as well as a possible rationale behind the killings.
Most of the novel is taken up with the steps taken by Maigret to set up a trap to snare, once and for all, the murderer and restore tranquility in the neighborhood.
For those readers who think psychological profiling is a recent phenomenon, this novel will spring a surprise as it was first published in 1955.
Maigret's attention to detail and wide knowledge of human psychology are well to the fore here.
A hot August in Paris sees the conclusion of a case which eventually comprises six murders and a vicious attack.
Maigret appears to make a huge miscalculation in setting his trap.
The man he is sure committed the first five murders, and the attempted murder, is in custody when the sixth murder is carried out.This is Simenon in fine form and given another almost faultless translation.
3.5/5
A French detective sets a trap for a serial killer.A short fast paced crime thriller, well written with good characters – my 4 star rating is because I’m still not sure what the trigger for the killings was.
Ahh, the quintessential Maigret! Here we see the formidable detective using his sharp wits and his uncanny ability to understand human nature to catch a serial killer whose motives is not plain greed or malice, but a rather devious one. Simenon projects the dark, hazy atmosphere of summer nights in Paris where Maigret and his team, lurk around the shadows, waiting for the perpetrator to spring his trap. And when the trap is sprung, then begins Maigret's excellent deduction of the killer's raison d'etre.My Rating - 4.5/5
nota typical Maigret novel and yet....this is one of the best I have read so far, the story raced along far more than usual with genuine tension in the first half that I put the book down, wanting to savour the moment and not rush on, only to pick it up moments later because I had to know what happened next. Simenon and his character Maigret said they were not interested in the workings of professional criminals but in what makes ordinary people commit unexpected crime.
Here is the perfect specimen of that sub-genre of the police procedural in which a serial killer is on the loose. Written in 1955, it does not have all the over-the-top trappings that modern readers have come to expect and so some readers may find it too simple, but to me it is better (and by better I mean more true to life) than the current stuff clogging the drug-store paperback racks.
Maigret csapdát állít - és a csapda működik! Vagy nem? A szokásos, feszes tempójú krimi, nagyon tetszett. Bővebben hamarosan. :)
La trappola di Maigret (1955) vede il commissario alle prese con un intricato caso: infatti, negli ultimi sei mesi, ben cinque donne parigine sono state uccise da un uomo misterioso, il quale si serve di poche coltellate e strappa loro i vestiti.
La trama riguarda il classico omicidio seriale verso le donne, il quale viene svelato grazie ad un intreccio fra un sapiente uso della psicologia e le doti investigative e logiche del commissario e della sua squadra.
Infatti, nei romanzi di Simemon, non solo ritroviamo una piacevole e dettagliata evocazione della Parigi dell'epoca ma anche stralci di psicologia, al fine di "giustificare" in tal direzione la mente del reo.
Já o segundo título pareceu-me mais bem escrito, mas totalmente rotineiro na execução da sua história."A Cilada de Maigret", que deve ser uma das aventuras da personagem mais adaptadas para cinema e TV (a mais recente tem Rowan Atkinson), leva tudo isso para outros caminhos: a escrita é, como no melhor de Simenon, curta mas incisiva e psicologicamente pormenorizada, e o mistério não passa por um "whodunnit" clássico, mas pelas constantes revelações do que está por detrás do mal que desencadeia a série de assassinatos em Montmartre.Simenon, dotado de uma genial contenção narrativa, criou aqui uma história de mistério exemplar, em que Maigret é muito mais do que o simples "motor" da investigação.
I loved this book, especially after reading ‘Find Her,’ because Simenon’s books are stellar examples of tight narratives that are diverting, but also *mean* something.
After a dinner conversation with a psychiatrist, Maigret has gone out on a limb to set a trap for a serial killer who has already murdered five women on the streets of Paris; Dr. Tissot has revealed a basic weakness in the mind of the sociopath that Maigret may be able to use to his advantage.
Published in 1955, ‘Maigret Sets a Trap’ anticipates many of the police procedural tricks with which we are familiar today, but with a humanity and sadness that detective novels don’t often call upon.
A very psychological, not to say Freudian, case as a weak man acts out against the control of his mother and his wife, one of whom commits murder in an attempt to protect him. The set-up is very well done, particularly Maigret figuring out the profile of the serial killer, but the solution too pat and comes too easily after the distinctive button is recovered after an aborted attack. Because Simenon wrote these books to a set number of words, they frequently end too suddenly with the conclusion not measuring up to the premise. Less than four stars.
I Paris har fem kvinnor fallit offer för en brutal seriemördare. Vad är sambandet mellan de meningslösa överfallen i Montmartres gränder? Polisen har ingen ledtråd, allmänheten är otålig och tidningarna pressar på. Maigret tar hjälp av en framstående psykiater och bestämmer sig för att gillra en fälla. Medan mörkret faller över världsstaden efter ännu en brännhet sommardag, har Maigret inte annat att göra än att vänta.Välskriven. Kan tycka att Maigret själv är ganska tråkig, trots all daglig likör.
Another easy and enjoyable read before bed. In this one, a mad man has killed five women in Montmatre without any witnesses. Maigret uses the press and undercover women cops to get a clue and find the killer. He becomes consumed with the psychology of the man and eventually becomes as interested in what made him act as who he is.
Havia llegit una bona part de les novel·les de Maigret amb quinze anys i ara, trenta anys després, les recupero per apreciar-ne coses diferents i recuperar aquest magnífic personatge per situar-lo millor en la constel·lació d'herois de novel·la negra. Uns herois que es cansen, s'equivoquen i s'emprenyen.Ara ja sé d'on ve Wallander...
Superb psychological analysis- solved by one soft word!
Maigret sets a trap for a serial killer of young women.
http://speloncalibro.blogspot.it/2007...
3,5 bar down, slowly and predictibly rewinind , reeling plot with a little surprise in the end ( not shocking )
I would advise to read this book.
Bonus: The main suspect is a disgruntled architect.
