https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319790.Exercises_in_Style
MetaFrom what point of view should I review the book?
Evidently: from all possible points of view.SnobbishNeedless to say, I am reading the original French edition.
Well, I should know better than to read this kind of book in the bathroom.PedanticIf nothing else, very educational.
this isn't as easy as one first thinks.
I'm not even up to double figures, and I'm already running out of ideas.
But he is quite inspiring.PracticalI will put the book on the coffee table, and read a couple of pages every now and then.
I don't think you're meant to go cover-to-cover.
The next time I happen to hop onto a bus, then there is every chance, Exercises in Style will immediately come to mind.
In different ways, told in different voices, different styles, and different points of view.
The book somehow, and I don't know how, contrives to feel kind of profound even though it appears at first to be pointless.One is left thinking by the end, of the endless possibilities that any simple story could be told.
The best way to read this (I found it helped anyway) is in as little time as possible, otherwise it's pleasures start to thin out.
Only one book has ever “changed my life” (god, if only things were so simple that a book could change your life!) and that is Joyce’s Ulysses, and that only in terms of my ideas of dedication and rigor.
This is not a review of Ulysses, and this won’t go on much longer, I promise.So what does an extremely intelligent human being interested in writing literature after the reckoning with Joyce do?
It attempts an observation and notation of what exactly language can do with fiction post-Joyce.
This is what postmodernism is all about, coming to terms with Joyce).
UPDATE: Queneau's Exercises in Style is given the Geoff Wilt treatment in Verbivoracious Festschrift Volume Three: The Syllabus.-- Who the fuck writes the same thing 99 times over?
Just have to show their practice forms, you know, can't be satisfied with just writing a book, oh no, they have to show their working, you know.
What story can be told about a brief bus ride and a button?This insignificant and infinitesimal event can be turned into a surreal vision:In the centre of the day, tossed among the shoal of travelling sardines in a coleopter with a big white carapace, a chicken with a long, feather-less neck suddenly harangued one, a peace-abiding one, of their number, and its parlance, moist with protest, was unfolded upon the airs.
Then, attracted by a void, the fledgling precipitated itself thereunto.In a bleak, urban desert, I saw it again that selfsame day, drinking the cup of humiliation offered by a lowly button.And it can be turned into a philosophical thesis:Great cities alone can provide phenomenological spirituality with the essentialities of temporal and improbabilistic coincidences.
Το βιβλίο αυτό ήταν σκέτη απόλαυση!************************- Οτ λιβλιο ταυτό νατη τέσκη λαυπόαση- Το βιβλίο ναούμ, ήταν σκέτη ναουμ απόλαυση ναούμ...- Το αντικείμενο με το σκληρό εξώφυλλο και τα φύλλα με γράμματα προκάλεσε τέρψη οφθαλμών και σκέψης...Κάπως έτσι λοιπόν ο συγγραφέας παραλλάσει την ιστορία ενός νεαρού σε ένα λεωφορείο και δημιουργεί 99 διαφορετικού τύπου ιστορίες, οι οποίες είναι απολαυστικές και αναδεικνύουν το μεγαλείο της γλώσσας και της συγγραφής!!!4/5 αστεράκια. Το διάβασα απνευστί με ένα μόνιμο χαμόγελο!!!ΥΓ: Πολύ καλή η δουλειά του μεταφραστή....
This is a lot of fun at the beginning as you realise exactly what Queneau has challenged himself to do here: rewrite the same little scene about a gangly young man in a badly fitting overcoat and an odd hat, in different styles, ninety-nine times!
You skip to ninety-nine in a desperate attempt to save your sanity but no, it is not to be, the last line is more maddening than anything that went before: you are left wondering who Theodore is and why Albert didn’t recognise him when Theodore was advising the gangly young man in the odd hat how to alter his badly fitting overcoat in front of the Gare St Lazare?
(hide spoiler)]Stephen M(view spoiler)[ While they make for an engaging and sometimes hilarious read, these stories also work with an overall conceit within the novel that concerns itself with the problematic relationship between philosophical thinking and human interaction.
You're coming to bed with me." (hide spoiler)]Ian Graye(view spoiler)[Fit Enough to ReadMy wife is the oneWho exercises in style,While I just read books.
(hide spoiler)]Riku(view spoiler)[I feel a slight anger towards the author for playing this trick on me, for leading me on into reading the entire book, without giving me anything new which I had not received from the first story.
Perhaps.It definitely takes a lot of talent for someone to tell one completely unremarkable story 99 times and still make a fun and readable book out of it.
Being illiterate in literary matters, I may not always be able to appreciate writing proficiency.
I read for fun, not for 99 exercises in reading!People who have a better eye for word play, will probably enjoy this book better.My rating for this book kept fluctuating throughout.
Also, writing style needs to be suitable to the content.
One of the works of art was '10 million years', basically all the numbers from 1 to 10 million written in 10 fat books.
Ενα εξαιρετικά πρωτότυπο ανάγνωσμα όπου ο συγγραφέας χρησιμοποιεί 99 διαφορετικούς τρόπους να εκφράσει μια ανούσια μικρή ιστορία. Μπορεί κανείς να το διαβάσει σε 10 διαφορετικά μέρη, σαλόνι, κουζίνα, αναγνωστήριο, τουαλέτα κλπ. καθώς και με άπειρους τρόπους ανάσκελα, καθιστά, όρθια, τρέχοντας, περπατώντας κλπ. Πολύ ενδιαφέρον αν κάποιος σκέφτεται να ξεκινήσει τη συγγραφή βιβλίου ή να κάνει καριέρα στην πολιτική. Εν κατακλείδι το ξεκίνησα με μεγάλη χαρά και ενδιαφέρον, κάπου στη μέση άρχισα να γυρνάω τις σελίδες λίγο πιο γρήγορα και στο τέλος είχα εμπαιδώσει σε άριστο βαθμό την πραγματικά παντελώς ανούσια ιστορία. Πέρα από την πλάκα αξίζει να διαβαστεί...
Several "styles" are just lopping off the beginning of the words (apheresis), or cutting the ends short (apocope), or, hell, just removing the middle (syncope).
You read "Prosthesis" and think, hmm, that's interesting, I wonder what he's going to do here.
There's nothing interesting about it; you already know the story and you've figured out this so-called "style." So you skip it, only to realize that if you do that with each one, you're skipping 80 percent of the book.
The premise of this book is simple - a little anecdote about a man on a bus, a story so bland that you wouldn't even put it into your cycle of small talk.
Queneau tells the same story in over a hundred different ways, ranging from Operatic English to Tanka to onomatopoeia to set theory to high art to Cockney slang.Such a book would normally be untranslatable, and there are some noticeable changes from the original.
Cockney slang is a substitute for 'Vulgaire', and the rhyming poetic couplets in the Alexandrine style have likely lost much of their glimmer.
(reread 09/13/15)  The English translation better be good, because this? This is brilliant. "Il y avait aujourd'hui dans l'autobus à côté de moi, sur la plate-forme, un de ces morveux comme on n'en fait guère, heureusement, sans ça je finirais par en tuer un." PS. I would love to write my review as Raymond Queneau, that is to say, using several literacy techniques to relate the same story over and over and over again, but let's face it : my English needs improvement before.
So, as it turns out, I've read the book in 8th grade, and found it so awesome, that I wrote down in my diary some of the story renderings.  This time around, not so much. Eventually, I grew tired and I didn't really finish the book. But I suppose that's the sad fate of re-reading old favorites...(Loved the illustrations though!)
Ουτε ένας ουτε δύο ουτε τρείς αλλα 99 τρόποι για να πεις μια οχι ενδιαφέρουσα, οχι ιδιαίτερη αλλα καθημερινή ιστορία που βρίθει οχι απο λύπη, στεναχώρια, δέος αλλα απο έξυπνο, αβίαστο, εκλεπτυσμένο χιούμορ. (Μόλις χρησιμοποίησα τον ένα απο τους 99 τρόπους για την κριτική αυτού του απολαυστικού διαμαντιού που μας αποκαλύπτει την δύναμη που έχει η γλώσσα.)
The Translator Translated In a crowded Paris bus of the S line, the narrator sees a young man with an unusually long neck who wears a soft hat with a cord instead of a ribbon. Standing on the platform at the rear, he gets annoyed with another man whom he accuses of jostling him every time anyone else gets on or off. As soon as he sees a vacant seat, he throws himself into it. Two hours later, the narrator sees him again outside Saint Lazare station. He is talking to another man who tells him to
These variations, all of which use comparatively normal French, come over clearly in Barbara Wright's translation, and with a wit to match the original.
They could be very useful examples for writers—in any language—in demonstrating just how many ways there are of telling a story.The French have a proprietorial relationship to their language, erecting a self-perpetuating Académie to determine what is and is not acceptable, generally fighting rearguard battles against neologisms and foreign imports.
Many of these are very difficult to understand in French, and remain so in the English versions also.Translation is a tricky business, because Queneau is effectively a translator himself, recasting his story in so many variations that many of them become almost different languages.
СОФИЙСКОНачи бате, качвам се в рейса неска по обед, щото бегах от даскало.
Вика, вика и избега да седне, бате, казвам ти, пълен гъз.
Към 5, бехме се направили на гъз с френдовете, и се връщам пак с рейса, бате, и гледам оня същия гъз пред Попа с некъв същия като него, бате – и оня: „Аре опраи се бе, глей къв си изсулен”.
Въй, лек, неска ако знайш ко стана...
Начи по обяд се качвам аз в 211, ама фраш ти казвам, лек!
Esercizi di stile, sono appunto 99 esercizi che l'autore ha fatto per la stesura di un libro.
Qui, nello specifico, l'esempio che fa è su una semplice situazione quotidiana che può succedere a chiunque...Di certo è un libro adatto agli addetti ai lavori, cioè scrittori, giornalisti, ecc...
Nel complesso, comunque, un libro che merita una lettura almeno nella vita.
Per chi ama i libri, la letteratura e tutto ciò che sta dietro alla stesura di un'opera letteraria, questo libro è imprescindibile.
When I got to the more abstruse linguistic games, I started wondering how these could ever be translated into other languages, so I bought the English and German versions of the book and played my own game of contrast and compare.
These gems only come to light if you read the French and English versions side by side, and I wont spoil the fun other than saying that the ones I found are in "Cockney" (her rendering of "Vulgaire") and "Reported Speech" (a freshly invented exercise to replace "Passé Simple", which of course does not exist in the English language).The German translation by Ludwig Harig und Eugen Helmlé is also good, but follows the original with less inventiveness.
The same story, about a brief and petty quarrel between two passengers in a bus, one of whom is later seen in a train station with a friend who advises him about the perceived necessity of adjusting a button on his overcoat, told 99 times, each in a different style, is what makes up Queneau’s unusual book.
But the late Barbara Cartwright boldly took on the task of translating Exercices de Style to English, though not after overcoming her initial reservations, which she shared in her preface to Exercises in Style, published in 1958, just over a decade after the release of the French original: “I thought that the book was an experiment with the French language as such, and therefore as unstranslateable as the smell of garlic in the Paris metro.
I think this is a book that should be read in its original language of French.
Zisse manne gotte aingrie ouise a tchappe hou oise traidingue onne hise tose, ainede zène ouènete ainede satte dahoune.A bitte léïteur Aï seau hime againe ine fronte ove ze Gare Saint-Lazare ouise a danedie hou oise advaïzingue hime tou mouve hise oveurcote batonne a litteule bitte ayère eup.I plan to read Zazie in the Metro by the same author (the co-founder of Oulipo) since I don't have particular reservations against reading prose works in translation.
What Raymond Queneau brings you in Exercises in Style is a set of 99 narrators; each equally amusing, entertaining and knowledgeable.
In addition to that, this edition also includes unpublished exercises, exercises published outside of Exercises in Style and 10 exercises written as homage to Raymond Queneau by various writers.The plot of the story is simple; mundane even, almost boring if you hear it from a friend as an anecdote.
This witty shape-shifting narrator should be enjoyed with a dose of few exercises at a time, otherwise it might lead to brain-indigestion and cause a brain-ache, which is definitely not healthy for you as a reader, nor it is fair towards Queneau while passing a quick judgement on Exercises in Style.
* Edit: May 13 2011 *I finally bought a copy of this ingenious little number and read it through again.
I think my favourite mode has to be ‘Reactionary,’ where the narrator makes angry pronouncements on the world around him while telling the bus altercation story.
I looked up some of the more specific verse forms that escaped me on the first read and smiled more knowingly.
(A more knowing smile involves greater purchase on the lip-corners).
Oneworld Classics have also brought out a new edition of The Sunday of Life, and We Always Treat Women Too Well is in the pipeline.
Обаче за да не вади кестените от огъна, той бързо си обра крушите и цъфна в един парцел за лично ползване.По-късно го видях на селския пазар, направен на бъзе и коприва, понеже имаше на палтото си нещо, което не беше цвете за мирисане.ГЕОМЕТРИЧНОВ един паралелепипед, придвижен по вектор, изразен с уравнението 84 x + y = C, суингосуидът А, представляващ полусфера с две описани върху нея окръжности, като радиусът на всяка окръжност е по-малък от радиуса на полусферата, има допирателна с обикновения хомоид B.
Thoughtful My reaction to books like Raymond Queneau’s Exercises In Style is comparable to my reaction when faced with certain works of conceptual, or modern, art, such as, for example, Martin Kippenberger’s Wittgenstein. What I mean by this is that the enjoyment I derive from them is superficial, is immediate but not long-lasting; in fact, I tend to find equal or greater enjoyment in the concepts or ideas being described to me as I do in experiencing them myself.To my mind, the most basic pre-
My reaction to books like Raymond Queneau’s Exercises In Style is comparable to my reaction when faced with certain works of conceptual, or modern, art, such as, for example, Martin Kippenberger’s Wittgenstein.
Raymond Queneau’s critically acclaimed novel, Exercises in Style, is like Martin Kippenberger’s Wittgentstein dancing the mazurka with Vladimir Nabokov, while trapped in a lift.
I cannot think of a single book that has entertained me quite as much as Exercises in Style.
Until the night I opened Raymond Queneau’s Exercises in Style.
To whom it may concern,I am writing to you regarding my recent experience of reading Exercises in Style by Raymond Queneau.
.... --- .-- -- .- -. -.-- ..-. ..- -.-. -.- .. -. --. - .. -- . ... -.. --- .. .... .- ...- . - --- ... .- -.-- - .... .. ... -... . ..-. --- .-. . .. - ... .. -. -.- ... .. -. ---... .- -- .- -. --- -. .- -... ..- ... .... .- ... .- -... ..- - - --- -. .-.-.-
Given its status and how loved this book seems to be on GR, I feel somewhat like it’s an epic F.A.I.L on my part to not have been blown away by it.
Other than that, it’s mostly gimmicky, sometimes amusing, and occasionally interesting.
I liked the episodes rewritten as told by a yokel or in mangled French as spoken by an English person (amusing), as well as the episodes rewritten as haiku or from a different perspective (interesting).
It was so packed too!!In the mode of “Precision”?At 5.32 and 34 seconds, I entered a vehicle 15.65 metres in length and 2.34 metres wide used to carry passengers from Place de la Concorde to Place d’Austerlitz.
This shames me to say but I was not originally on the bus with Queneau's Exercises in Style, yet I pretended to be, sitting right beside the dude with the long neck and the eccentric hat.
So I sat there reading his proper novels, genuinely enjoying them as the bus jostled and my feet hurt and the long neck irked me.
I did not know so I rode around in a party on a bus because I was ashamed to get off, and gave it 4 stars to pretend I liked it, while all the true believers continued stepping on my aching feet.
There have been quite a few books that have caused me while reading to think "If I ever teach a creative writing class, I've got to use this!" Well this book actually coerced me into creating a new shelf "to-assign-in-creative-writing-class." Happy New Year!
Will it be a Happy New Year?
You'd Better Have a Happy Fuckin' New Year, Ya Git!
Happy and Joyous New and Fresh Year and 52 Weeks!
Ummm...I suppose Happy is the right word...uh...New...Year it seems to be.
How can one wish others to be Happy?
What's the point?p.s. My mommy got me this for Christmas.
As much as I am into the idea, the way Raymond Queneau puts it into effect is short-lived and becomes rapidly gratuitous, blatantly reduced to puns when it's not to mere shifting of syllables and letters. Too bad, but at least, it sets a precedent.--------------------------------Autant j'ai adoré l'idée, autant je trouve que son application s'essouffle vite dans des jeux purement formels d'inversion de mots et de lettres. C'est dommage, mais il fallait le faire !
