https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6216137-sherlock-holmes
Mr Trevor Bennett comes to Sherlock Holmes with an unusual problem.
He is Professor Presbury’s personal secretary, and Mr Bennett is also engaged to the professor’s only daughter, Edith Presbury.Professor Presbury is himself engaged to a young lady, Alice Morphy, a colleague’s daughter, although he himself is already over sixty years old.
Nonetheless, the trouble seems to have begun at about the time of Professor Presbury’s and Alice’s engagement.First, the professor suddenly left home for a fortnight without telling anyone where he was going.
Of course, Holmes knows that what dogs do in the night is often important!
Well, it was fine. Good in start, slow in mid and creepy a bit but in the it was just fine.
This one, I do not think, measures well scientifically, but whatevs
Holmes knows from his study of dogs that this is significant.Upon returning from Prague, Professor Presbury told Mr. Bennett that certain letters would arrive with a cross under the stamp, and he was not to open these.
Before leaving the professor's house, Holmes has a look at Edith's bedroom window, and sees that the only possible way for someone to climb up there is by using the creeper, rather unlikely for a 61-year-old man.Holmes has formed a theory that every nine days, Professor Presbury takes some kind of drug which causes the odd behaviour.
God! I'm loving these stories so far. This is actually new. Usually the cases are related to murder and such but this is the first time Doyle displayed a fantasy topic. Defiantly a favorite.
The eighth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. A professor is acting strangely before his upcoming wedding to a much younger woman. An interesting mystery.
It was interesting at first. Then the revelation let me down. A fun read but better not think about it too much because it's rubbish the more you think about it.
It is an interesting book but along the way it becomes boring
Pored priče iz naslova knjiga sadrži još nekoliko Holmsovih avantura i sve se dešavaju nakon njegovog 'oživljavanja'.
Dakle Morijarti je mrtav a Šerlok rešava slučajeve koji nisu naročito nadahnuto napisani, iako je simpatično čitati te staromodne dijaloge u svoj njihovoj naivnosti.
Saznajemo i kako se Holms na kraju karijere povukao u jednu vilu gde je mogao na miru da živi podalje od gradske vreve i kako je čak i u tim idiličnim uslovima poneki slučaj znao da mu upadne u krilo, dakle sve ono što je čitalačka rulja želela i smatrala izuzetno važnim a nesretni Dojl nije imao snage ili hrabrosti da im ne da i time ih pouči dobrom ukusu.
The eccentric scholar Professor Presbury is acting a wee bit more eccentric than usual. His moonlight stalks throughout his estate are all but terrifying his household. Is he made with lunacy? Holmes and Watson are the solution to this conundrum. The Adventure of the Creeping man is definitely one of the more offbeat and "fantastical" stories of the Holmes canon. With a very strange climax and more questions than you can shake a stick at, this story is something a bit different than the other cases in Watson's lockbox.
This story verges on science fiction. It was a little creepy but a fairly average Holmes story.
Our last read for my Sherlock Holmes class for this term - good, but it is time to move on. I have a whole disc of 60 or so of his stories given to us by the professor of the class. So, I will probably be revisiting Sherlock from time to time - definitely good reads for a couple of free hours!
Vergezocht, oninteressant.
starts turning into some jekyll & hyde story and its not a very good one
Not convincing at all.
One of many interesting treatments of rejuvenation....when truth is stranger than fiction!
=)
Probably the only Holmes story I didn't enjoy.
Excellent, thought-provoking ideas at the end of this story about a world where the "least fit" survive
