https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168579.The_Ascent_Of_Rum_Doodle
Over a bottle of Ghurkha Beer emblazoned with the famous Tenzing Norgay Everest photo, I was inspired on reading from the blurb scrawled on the strangely moving wall that the bar was named after a famous 1950’s mountaineering ascent documented in an equally famous book.
Ghurkhas came thick and fast, as elephants in a Dumbo nightmare, and I lapsed into something like the vomit inducing exhaustion of altitude sickness and forgot Rum Doodle as the illusion of a terrible Himalayan ague.I came across this book recently, now rediscovered by Bill Bryson who forwards this edition, wandering friendless in a charity shop sheltering from the rain.
The British never really regarded surrealism as a serious artform and most examples of British surrealism are in fact strange comedies with no especial interest in the concerns of the original Surrealists (Freudian psychology, automatic writing, unpalatable honesty regarding sexual desires, etc).This novel stands comparison with *Three Men in a Boat* or *Diary of a Nobody* but it's much more extreme and silly and ingenious.
It is very rare that I read books twice, let alone three times.
I still regard it as a tremendous comedy!
I'm a bit in the middle of these two.
The writing was over the top and there were lots of funny paragraphs - I just didn't laugh as much as I had hoped.
My expectations were very high, especially because Bill Bryson in the foreword calls this the funniest book he ever read.
Sometimes it was also trying a bit too hard to make people laugh.
I think I might have enjoyed it a lot more even I hadn't read the foreword and the caption which both gave away the funniest parts of the book.
İnsanın doğa ile mücadelesini yücelten ve kafamıza kafamıza vuran binlerce eserin arasından bir güneş gibi doğan bu mizah abidesi, kendi çapında aşılması zor bir zirve teşkil ediyor dersem, sanırım çoğu kişi bana içten içe hak vermekte bir beis görmeyecektir.
Elbette kişinin kültürü ile şekillenen mizah anlayışı, bu sarsıcı komiklikteki eserin algılanmasını da belirleyecektir.
Yine de gönül rahatlığı ile diyebilirim ki Catch-22, Douglas Adams ve Aziz Nesin denildiğinde gülmemek için kendini zor tutan nesiller, elbette ki neyi kast ettiğimi anlayacaklardır.
Buna ek olarak, çeviri diline değinmek gerekirse, lafı çok dolandırmadan diyebilirim ki, akıcılığı bozmayan ve mizahla okurun arasına çok girmeme başarısını sergileyen bir çeviri dili söz konusu.
I have to be really honest about this book.
To be honest, Bowman's style of writing it is really tiring and I was often drifting with my focus on the book.
Although I have to say that's probably my problem and not Bowman's.
As a matter of fact his writing is surprisingly good and very well polished.
What I did not like about the book it's the fact that almost every part of it seems like a sitcom, everything is happening and nothing seems to happen.
Maybe my rating it's very personal, however I must say that I don't think The Ascent of Rum Doodle a bad or bad written book.
9/10Neşeyle okudum, çok eğlendim, şaşırdım.
Bambaşka bir şey okudum.
Tek okuyuşta tükenecek bir kitap değil.Farklı bir mizah görmek istiyorsanız mutlaka okuyun.Çeviri ve editörlükten de bahsetmek gerek: Harika bir çeviriydi, bana garip gelen, düşük gelen hiçbir ifade yoktu; sözcük oyunları Türkçe'ye çok iyi aktarılmıştı, Ali Erdem Çelebi'nin eli zihni dert bulmasın.
Bunun yanında yazım yanlışı ve typo da yoktu, editör Emre Yavuz ve düzeltmenler Hande Çelebi ve Özge İpek'in ellerine sağlık.
Sade kapak tasarımının sahibi Meltem Çelebi'yi de anmamak olmaz, sağ olsun.Umarım 16 Metrekare yayınevi Bowman'ın diğer eseri "The Cruise of the Talking Fish"i (evet maalesef sadece iki eseri var) de yayınlar.Not: Tek üzüntüm Bill Bryson'ın önsözünün çeviride yer almaması.
The Ascent of Rum Doodle  is a jaunty parody of inept mountaineers, who couldn’t organise a raffle at a village fete let alone master the 40,000 (and a half) ft climb to the peak of ‘Rum Doodle’.These ‘professionals’ have the most ironic surnames like Burley, who was was anything but as he was out of sorts after failing to acclimatise to any step of their journey, the team’s medical assistance was provided by a Dr Prone who contracted everything from mumps to malaria, while Constant unintention
Strategies were developed to minimise exposure of his contribution to their endeavour but his presence was ludicrously unshakeable.And with the exception of Binder’s incessant obsession for dredging up every team member’s fiancée status (regardless of how curious their replies are) this story is completely dominated by men.
He said, no, his wife was the unsympathetic kind and his children considered one mother quite enough."Binder’s valiant efforts to provide his calamitous conquerors with the necessary encouragement turned into an ascent of endurance rather than an expedition.
An overlooked classic. Read it in a single sitting. Extremely silly, in a good way, and often funny enough to bring tears.
Absolutely hilarious, giggled like a schoolgirl all the way through. I'm off to meditate on the responsibilities of leadership...
Menaced by Pong, the cook, who could reduce any potentially decent meal to swill in seconds, the men test the limits of their courage, endurance, and capacity to be around their leader without losing their tempers.A very slight book, this didn’t take long to read and made me smile throughout – that could have been tested had the book been much longer, but thankfully it knew not to outstay its welcome (unlike Binder) and finished while I still thought well of it.**Also posted at Cannonball Read 9**

A classic British comic novel about a shambolic Himalayan mountaineering expedition.
Perhaps a forgotten classic - it's been familiar to me for a long time and I didn't know it wasn't well-known until I read Bill Bryson's introduction.
(There's an awful lot happening, so less time to be so.) There's also a touch of Goonish / Pythonesque surrealism and a dash of Ealing charm.
And quite a lot of comic repetition.
Knowing the kind of memoirs being parodied may make this funnier, but plenty of reviewers say they enjoyed this regardless of familiarity with climbing books or the sport itself.
I love the serendipity of books. 1 month ago I discover this obscure and forgotten spoof on my bibliophilic son's ever growing bookshelves. Today I find a reference to it in another book I am reading... ! In this age of political correctness and sensitivities to all kinds of imagined slights The Ascent of Rum Doodle could never be written.for this reason alone it deserves to be rediscovered and celebrated. Thank God for a time when people could see the funny side of things without taking offence.
Rum Doodle is one of the funniest, silliest (in the best sense!) books I've ever read.
Bill Bryson's commendation on the cover is spot on: "One of the funniest books you will ever read." A spoof of the mountaineering community in the early 20th century, Bowman's deadpan style of delivery is a sheer delight.
The boy's natural delight at owning a weapon of destruction drew his attention away from the subject of fiancees, thus relieving an inner tension which might have resulted in a political career."Absolutely ripping!
Dieses Buch ist einfach unglaublich lustig! Freunde des trockenen und subtilen Humors werden an dieser Bergsteigergeschichte definitiv ihren Spaß haben. Ich kann es nur empfehlen. Leider ist es relativ kurz :/
Loaned to me by a friend who said, "this book is very funny." I couldn't agree with the assessment more. It was a good treadmill read, although I nearly fell off a couple of times.
Nie można przestać się śmiać. Wyśmienita lektura na weekend nie tylko dla tych, którzy uwielbiają książki podróżnicze.
Una historia de lo más divertida y disparatada a partes iguales. Hacía tiempo que no me reía tanto con un libro y la traducción es todo un acierto... jajaja.
Muchas ganas de leerlo en inglés – con tantos juegos de palabras traducidos, tienen que ser casi como dos libros diferentes.
LOVE IT! One of the best and funniest books I've ever read. I'd recommend it to everyone who loves a good spoof. My first reaction was that I needed to buy a copy so I could grab it and start reading again anytime I wanted.
I think Bill Bryson is one of the funniest authors out there.
Bill Bryson thinks Rum Doodle is one of the funniest books out there.
Therefore, I should find Rum Doodle extremely funny, right?Nope.That was my reasoning when I picked the book up from the library, but no.
I probably would have kept smiling if I'd kept reading, but the story didn't grip me, and the humour wasn't sufficient to keep me turning pages on what was (to me) a boring tale.Perhaps if I'd ever been a climber, I'd have found it more engaging?Anyway.
except to a mountain climber.
I am delighted to find that after 37 years as a used bookseller, i can still discover a new favorite book and fall in love.
Though I am slightly embarrassed that I am only discovering Rum Doodle NOW, but perhaps books come along in your life just when you need them.
The Ascent of Rum Doodle can only be described as a Good Show epic running on all cylinders.
The conquering of a mountain has never and will never be this funny.
Give this book to someone whose never ending devotion you wan to earn, they will follow you up Rum Doodle without question.
This is a farcical story of a group of "climbers" setting out to tackle the daunting (and imaginary) summit of Rum Doodle. It's told in first person by a decidedly non-omniscient narrator who observes the laziness and bickering of his climbing team with unfailingly naive goodwill. I enjoyed the dry, subtle humor--laugh-out-loud in many places. A bit slow at times, but all-in-all a funny read. I'd probably give it 3.5 stars if I had the option, but it deserves to be rounded up rather than down.
I'd already read 'The Ascent of Rum Doodle' so this was very much to read 'The Cruise of the talking Fish' and complete my Bowman experience. It didn't disappoint. Although not as accomplished as Rum Doodle and far more fantastical in its ideas, the comedy was just as sharp and amusing and the characters extreme, albeit half of them were animal able to communicate with humans. It has made me realise that this is the Bowman book I need a copy of as opposed to Rum Doodle on its own.
Recommending it for people interested in:-Mountain climbing, ropes, crevasses, porters, boys, skunks, gurgles, warples, compasses, thermometers, Rum Doodle, North Doodle, teamwork, champagne, and, of course, the thrill of achieving something together(along with porters that are beyond praise).Hilarious and succinct; thoroughly enjoyed this one.
One of the best comic novels I have ever read. Extremely well observed and deserves to be thought of as one of the true classics of comic literature along with P.G.Wodehouse. I particularly loved the leader of the expedition who exemplifies the stereotype of the optimistic but not at all worldly British ex-public schoolboy.
Very British and very funny. A lovely gentle humour runs throughout much in the vein of 'Diary of a Nobody' and 'Three Men in a Boat'; two other books of which I am inordinately fond. A great read.I want to watch 'Ripping Yarns' again now.
You will find this book promnently on the front shelf of every bookstore in Thamel, the neighborhood of Kathmandu where all the mountaineers stay when in town, going to- or coming-back. Wonderful parody.
While reading this book, be prepared for the question to be asked of you repeatedly, "What is so funny?"
It wasn't hilarious, but it was amusing. Short read as well.
