https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39045.I_Don_t_Know_How_She_Does_It
I wonder if it's just me.These are the things I found wrong: whenever Kate, the main character, had time to spend with her kids, she seemed to really hate it.
Kate couldn't wait for Monday to come so she could unload the kids on the nanny.
I think it's because I see this balance between career and family as a real problem women face, that I might someday have to deal with, and instead of addressing it in a constructive way I think this book ridiculed it.
I don't even know why I stuck with this book for so long. IT'S OKAY TO QUIT BOOKS, Erin.
[Note: I'm reviewing this quite a long time after I finished the book because I've been really busy for the past couple of months. I can still remember what I really disliked about this book, so I'm going to write the review, but I might be shaky on some of the precise details. Be warned.]Are you a man who has lived alone for any portion of your life?Are you a man who can complete most domestic tasks?Are you a man who managed to dress yourself this morning?If so -  CONGRATULATIONS!  I really don
At one point, Kate goes on a rant that men insist upon being waited on by all women in their life: first their mother, then they get married as a solution to no longer having a mother to clean up after them, and expect their wife to do notihng but take care of the house and the children.
But the worst element of all was in Robin Cooper-Clark, the bigwig whom Kate works for, that she has used as a nice foil to her husband's neediness and made me think that, yeah, maybe this reasonable and kind figure meant that I Don't Know How She Does It wasn't utterly mired in misandry.
The book offers up som hilarious scenarios and really pinpoints how the corporate world discourages career women as mothers all while saying they as a company is a very family friendly place.It also takes a critical look at the stay at home moms that gave up so much that they try and channel all of their life into raising their kids and condemn any woman that chooses not to follow that path.
To have them grow up and be stay at home moms like themselves...
When the book came out, there was a media firestorm that took advantage of the presumed premise of mommy wars -- pitting stay-at-home mothers vs.
Kate Reddy, heroine of the novel, does have issues with stay-at-home mothers, but only those she calls the Muffia, women who are devoted to making her feel guilty about her own choices.
However, these are not the only stay-at-home mothers in the book, and this isn't the driving plot.
(hide spoiler)] I'm sick of these books that reinforce stereotypes such as "men need women to take care of them, and isn't that the most important job of all?" Contrary to popular belief, it's possible to be a working mother and be both a good worker and a good mother, and men are actually capable of doing things like cleaning the house thoroughly, cooking good dinners, and expertly changing diapers.
That's not to say it's not difficult, but I felt this book almost poked fun at it, and ultimately sided with the "Muffia." You would think most women would want to rid the world of these kinds of stereotypes, but we do a good job of keeping them going.
I was so disgusted with the self-centered, self-righteous worldview of the main character I quit the book 150 pages into it.
I think not.
Reaping seeds of a lifetime of selfishness, I think so.
150+ pages I endured of her spinning her wheels, dissatisfying everyone, herself included, just so she could "have it all." The woman's movement wasn't about "having it all" it was about having options.
Jesus said "Whoever seeks to preserve his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will keep it." And I think that is a far more beneficial way to look at life, marriage and motherhood, working outside the home or not.
It wouldn't be a lie to say I wanted to read this book for years. I passed it on the bookstore shelf, I don't know how many times. Well, maybe my intuition was telling me something. I found the main character Kate to be a lousy mum, sorry if that insults any working moms, but she really was just crap. I just found myself to be very unsympathetic towards her.

Then she should dog ear pages of the book and force her spouse, partner or child's sperm donor to read.
In fact, it was almost a job to finish it--since it basically looked, smelled and felt like my life (with the exception that I spend a shit ton more time with my kid then the, shall we say, heroine, and I would give my left boob to stay at home and raise him--but that's a whole other review and requires a lot of details as to why I'm not staying at home but instead have committed myself to a really jealous boyfriend--i.e., my job).
I think I read this within a year after it first came out, circa 2003, when I was still working in the financial district full-time, and had two little ones, ages 5 and two, was commuting to Manhattan by train and could lose myself in a book for about 45 minutes each way.
The hilarious email exchanges in the book would have to be texts now, I suppose.I thought Pearson was such a fresh, talented voice, but was very disappointed in her uneven tribute "I Think I Love You," which attempted to capture the David Cassidy fangirl experience of the 1970's.But back to Kate Reddy.
The whole, fragmented, pissed off, full of love and anguish truth.Of course, the book tells the truth in the form of a fictional narrative, but two of Ms. Pearson’s literary devices are so real that I bet they’re sitting on the kitchen counter or in the head of every mother reading this right now: the court of motherhood and the list of things to remember.The Court of MotherhoodIn the book, the Court of Motherhood takes place in Kate's dreams.
But I believe the court of motherhood is such a societal constant that it is in the head of every mother, working or at home.
Don't read on if you haven't read the book!!
OK, this book bugged me.
Parts of it were good -- the parts that talked about the conflicting pull between home and work.
Then -- at the end -- she QUIT her job.
Basically, the message that this book gives is -- you can't balance working and mothering, so you might as well quit.
There ARE ways to balance both -- ways that don't have to cost you your entire salary, your dignity, your job, or your relationships.
You just have to work hard to find them.
I was engaged, I wanted to know what happened, I was invested in the characters, it had an excellent plot line, and so on.What was bad about it, was it made me angry, it made me upset.
It made me not enjoy my day to day interactions with people I was so upset by this book.I don't know exactly how to put why it made me so miserable, but I think that it put me into the mind of a person that was on a busy sidewalk having there head trod on.
Motherhood, Womanhood, and ParenthoodOf course anyone can read this but it takes the 3 states of being to connect with the story.As a mother to a 2-year old son, I was able to connect and understand most of Kate Reddy's 'concerns' (although not so much on the petty and exaggerated ones).
Every mother would understand when I say we want to be needed and we want to be present in every significant event of our child's/children's lives even though we know we sometimes can't.My job then may not be as demanding as Kate's but when work takes you away from your kids, do you think it matters who has the more demanding job?
Running a house with two children and a high powered career is like being tied to two horses running in different directions.
Time off for myself felt like stealing.
This was just another area in which we were unequal : mothers got the lioness's share of the guilt."I highly recommend it.P. S - if you haven't seen the movie yet, don't bother.
With panache, wisdom, and uproarious wit, I Don’t Know How She Does It brilliantly dramatizes the dilemma of every working mom.I hated the main character in this book!
I know a lot of women like her at my children's (private) school and the entire time I read it, my stomach hurt because I was being reminded of one mother or another that I can't stand.
This is a generous 2 star book for me.
THERE ARE MUCH BETTER CHICK LIT BOOKS OUT THERE THAT HAVE MUCH MORE POSITIVE MESSAGES FOR BOTH MEN AND WOMEN.
I saw the movie for this book before I read it.
When I saw the movie, I didn't realize it was a book.
I wasn't reading as much back in those days.
so I decided to read I Don't Know How She Does It. As a working mother I thought that I would be able to relate to Kate Reddy in this book.
But I couldn't find the connection in this book.
While the book as a whole was good, I didn't find myself invested in it.
I don't know if I would have felt any differently about the book if I hadn't seen the movie, though.
The main character, Kate, has a demanding full-time job in London's financial sector, an emotionally absent husband at home, two small and needy children, and a finicky nanny.
At one point she announces to the reader, "If you think I could be one of those stay-at-home types, then you don't know me at all." At the same time, she is so deliriously (literally) miserable, you wonder if she actually knows herself.
These two points are very well done in this book, and make it worth the read (and buy).
I Don't Know How She Does It: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother [Kindle Edition](October 1, 2002)I saw the advertisement today on TV for the movie made about this book.
It looked to be fun, funny and engrossing so I immediately bought the book without ever reading any of the reviews.
Frankly, my motto is “don’t judge a BOOK by its movie”, in other words, books are always much better than the movies, right?
I’m afraid I did the reverse with this book; I judged the book by the movie preview and now I’m going to beg Amazon for my 12$ back.
I just have ZERO faith in myself that I'd ever be able to balance the two without buckets of Xanax and a therapist on speed dial.Kate Reddy is having a hard time.
Trying to find the time to be a good mom to her kids, wife to Richard, and give her job the attention it deserves - is not working out, and Kate needs to figure out her priorities - and fast!I love Allison Pearson's writing - its quick, descriptive, and so witty.
Kate trying to figure out how to be a mother in a man's world, is equally sad and hilarious and I had fun reading this.
This book pulls off the feat of being simultaneously intensely depressing and incredibly funny.
If you are a stay-at-home mom, it will convince you that you made the right choice; if you are a working mom, you'll think you're doing great because, I guarantee you, you're doing a better job at juggling than Kate Reddy is.
Kate is a high-powered hedge fund manager who has to fly across the Atlantic every week or two while managing two kids, a nanny she's terrified of, and a house-cleaner whom she's embarrassed to ask to clean.
The ending is fairly satisfying, and two days after finishing it, I remember the funny bits more than the depressing ones.
Kind of a Bridget Jones's Diary for the mommy set, this book is almost too clever to like. But I liked it. Still, as a card-carrying underachiever, I couldn't always relate much to Career Kate. Too tidy ending(s) tempt me to shelve this with fairytales.I liked the Mary Poppins references and other pop-culture bits, those I could get, anyway. Liked the discussion about food (or not) in heaven and why there isn't a McDonald's. Liked the email exchanges, mostly. Liked her husband and her other romantic-interest guy, even if he did resemble George Clooney.
I get where it was going. I really do. There were some parts that made me laugh and I definitely felt for her. Unfortunately, it's also a rehash of "men are infants and women must do it all," which I'm just tired of.
While I empathized with Kate through all of the book, as a working mother myself, I really came to hate her.
In fact, just by the title, we're supposed to be full of awe and admiration for Kate, wishing we were her.
I read this book after the sequel, in which I liked Kate!
Kate's age here and The time between the next book to add up.
Also people fired from EMF in this book show up working at EMF in the next one.
And as I said in my review of the sequel, the book was much longer than it needed to be.
As a result, she's in a constant state of extreme exhaustion, and she ends up ignoring her husband for most of the book and being constantly wracked with guilt over her failure to be there for her kids.She makes heaps and heaps of money, and basically seems to be willing to accept having a deeply horrible life and a work environment that treats women like @#$%&*!
But it made for some painful reading.That said - on balance I really liked this book and would recommend it, especially to working moms.
Its hilarious but also sad, and is written in a punchy manner that makes you not want to put it down.
Makes you sympathise with her a lot.
I think this book shows the reality of women trying to 'have it all' - its not saying that women should or shouldn't have a career vs be a housewife vs both, its saying that we need to look at the reality.
(And if you don't want to have children and just want to have a fulfilling career and a partner, then that also works well!)
Especially entertaining are Kate's email exchanges with two of her girlfriends, as well as with the American client.::: What I Didn't Like :::Nothing ruins a good book for me like a pat ending, and unfortunately, Allison Pearson ties up all her plots and subplots with a neat Hallmark bow.
About 1/3 of the way through reading [okay, skimming] this book, I started to make a mental list of my own: Don't mistake inability to cope with grief for men needing to be mothered by women.Don't punch a hula hoop at the grocery store.
Or gave store bought cookies instead of home made pies...honestly, you would think, from her attitude, that all immigrants and children with working mothers grow up hating everyone and committing murder because they cannot have the ideal socio-cultural norms because of their backgrounds.Finally, I really hated the ending where she decided to stay at home, but wasn't happy there either, still up till 2 AM packing lunches, and dreaming of getting back in there...?
(Note: Yes, yes, I know the book is set in Great Britain, but as an American wife, mother, and full-time working woman, I could identify completely with the main character and what she feels compelled to do to keep her life on track.) Other reviewers here who slam the book as being misandrist somewhat miss the point, I think.
While I'm not the high-powered hedge-fund manager Kate is, I nonetheless know what it is like to be up in the middle of the night making treats, sewing costumes, etc., getting a couple hours of sleep, and then having to work a 10- or 12-hour day before going home to get dinner on, help kids with homework, spend quality time with the husband, and on and on it goes.
