https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863838.Witch_Cult_in_Western_Europe
This book is written by Anthropologist Margaret Murray to outline the survival, beliefs, and rituals of a pre-Christian witchcraft-centric "old religion." Unfortunately Murray subjectively interpreted the confessions of witch trials and manipulated and cited her findings out of context to support her theory of an old pre-christian religion based around a horned god and a goddess that survived the persecution of witch trials in europe.
The value in this book is not that it is historically accurate, but rather as a starting point of which to understand where much of the source material for modern day Pagan religions draw from.
Finally reading it gave me perspective on not only the controversial issues it touches on (the possibility of a real, widespread survival of pre-Christian Paganism and its suppression during the Witch Hunts), but also the controversy which has surrounded the book itself since its publication.
Many of the quotes (especially by the wonderfully bold Isobel Gowdie) showed fearlessness, honesty, and the kind of bluntness only possible with a person who doesn't see anything shameful in their actions.
Happily, the surrounding text often sums up these quotes for we English speakers.
Thoroughly unconvincing as actual history, and thoroughly entertaining as an exercise in world-building. I only wish Murray hadn't left such great swathes of her source material in its original Ye Olde French.
A bit dry...
It's a good source for quotes and starting points for further research, as it is well-organized and -categorized alongside being at least two-thirds direct quotes and passages.
But it is fairly difficult to read.
The quotes are not translated, so you see: Middle English, non-standardized Early Modern English, Scotch, French (Early Modern?), and German (I do not know German, so I can't guess what period of the language).
You also get to read Us as Vs and Js as Is. Otherwise, I find this subject very interesting and appreciate that Murray approaches it as an actual historical cult rather than a bunch of people's corroborating flights of fancy.
Interesting and very pleasant.
I was only reading this because of its being so influential. I couldn't finish. Despite the subject matter, it was agonizingly boring. Yes, even though I speak French.
Interesting!
A little slice of history. I wish I could see this literature study redone with better scholarship.
