https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301374.The_Gentleman_in_the_Parlour
Maugham does seem to honestly reveal what he saw and experienced, both the good and the bad, frankly admitting his own shortcomings and stating clearly his preferences and personal interests.
Beginning in Burma, the route taken is via Rangoon, Pagan, Mandalay, Amarapura and Kengtung in northeastern Burma, on to Thailand visiting Ayutthaya, and Wat Suthat in Bangkok, on to Cambodia visiting Phnom Penh, Kep and of course Angkor Wat, on to present-day Vietnam visiting Saigon, Hue, Turan, Hanoi and Haiphong and finally departure to Hong Kong.
The book is less a travel guide than a description of what Maugham experienced as he made this trip.
Embala-nos com palavras muito bonitas, como um barco a navegar calmamente num rio.A viagem, as pessoas, as histórias, as paisagens, as sensações; tudo é bonito neste livro.“Pensei para mim que os homens são mais interessantes do que os livros, mas têm o defeito de não podermos saltar certos capítulos.
Temos, no mínimo, de folhear o livro inteiro para encontrar uma página que valha a pena.
E não podemos colocá-los numa estante e pegar neles quando nos apetece; é preciso lê-los quando a oportunidade se apresenta, à semelhança de um livro de uma biblioteca itinerante que é muito procurado, e temos de esperar a nossa vez para o ler e, quando o recebemos, não podemos ficar com ele mais de vinte e quatro horas.
Maugham was not known as a travel writer, he wrote novels.
This book is the story of several trips: One up the Irrawady river to Mandalay in Burma, then a trek across the Shan mountains into what was then Siam, after that down the Mekong to Saigon and up then up coast to Hue in Vietnam.
I enjoyed reading it because I just got back from Burma and saw both the Irrawady and the Shan mountains.
And he tells sad stories like the sixty year old Italian priest living in the Shan mountains who rarely saw Westerners and would never see Italy again.
Едно време в английската гимназия, когато ни подготвяха диктовки за класни работи, често подбираха текстове от Моъм, тъй като има страхотен речник (т.е.
Книгата е написана от Моъм по време на негово пътуване в Азия.
Не е класически пътеводител, а е много лична - разказва за интересни и странни хора, с които се е запознал по време на това пътуване (и аз като Моъм се интересувам от хората и този негов подход ми хареса), както и за начина, по който човек се променя, когато пътува.
Um dos melhores livros de viagens que li, não apenas pela excelência da escrita, mas também pela mis
In the years in between he was very productive and wrote some of his most famous books as ‘The Painted Veil’ (1925) ‘The Casuarina Tree’ (1926) two full length plays and the novel ‘Cakes and Ale’ (1930) High points in this travel story are his (mule) trip to upper Burma, his period in Bangkok and his description of Angkor Wat in Cambodia.
But more than a traveller Maugham remains a story teller and writer, some of the stories he tells us from this trip he published elsewhere to, sometimes even before this journey.So more than a travelogue this is a very carefully composed novel in the form of a traveler’s story.
Reading Maugham's colorful descriptions of his travels in a small volume with yellowed pages easily lulled me back eighty years into the time he wrote which is so different from how one would go to SE Asia nowadays.
Taking a break from writing fiction, he filled his journal with interesting stories of people he met along the way.
The beauty of his writing shown through each page; for example: "The coconut trees with their disheveled heads were like old men suddenly risen from sleep." Written from his heart, the journal felt like a way of getting a look inside his soul.
I felt a bit sorry for Maugham here. The old boy doesn't really get much joy from any of the places he visits, and encounters several tragic and pathetic sorts of figures, who whilst he mocks, are really just a mirror of himself (maybe that was the point but I doubt it). I think his pompous prose is really overrated.
I always enjoy his work and was delighted to find this book. Didn’t realise it was travel rather than a novel and found it a bit harder read though enjoyable and quite an insight to travelling between the wars. Would be interesting to try and cover his journey today.
Maugham's world is one seen through thoroughly British eyes and his encounters with Asians are barely sketched in, something like a minimalist pencil drawing.
Maugham eschews local foods in favor of tinned British goods found along the way, which he covets.
At every opportunity, Maugham feels the need to insult: the costumes of the Vietnamese are beautiful but sadly uniform; Asian art may have aesthetic value but remains childlike in its tendency repeat themes; Burmese architecture has aesthetic merit but, well, who cares about the history of its many kings.
Oh, Mr. Maugham, if I didn't love you so you'd have drawn my ire with this one.
I am a Maugham fan, absolutely adoring The Razors Edge, but not appreciating the Summing Up (perhaps because I hadn't read enough of his books yet).
On the flip side, I really enjoyed reading about how tedious travel was, and how things were back in those days (e.g., in Haiphong, all Westerners arriving were printed in the newspaper!).
Makes me appreciate how much of the world I get to see today with such relative ease.This book is great fun to read, especially if you plan on doing a similar journey.
E, contudo, gosto quase sempre da que vou lendo, nem mesmo um livro menor como "A Formosa Lusitânia" de Lady Jackson me defraudou, enriquecido que está pelos venenosos (verrinosos?) comentários de Camilo.
Este livro não constitui excepção.
O que mais me aprecio neste tipo de literatura é, quase sempre, o talento do narrador em salientar, por palavras, paisagens, tipos, lugares, sensações.
Nas mãos de um mestre como Maugham, os locais ganham forma e côr e cheiro e as pessoas têm pele e ossos e nervos.
É um bomn livro, que não envergonha o Autor.

Having enjoyed The Painted Veil, set in China, I was expecting an interesting travel book, and was disappointed. I found the first section on his trip through colonial Burma annoying; Maugham came off as too bwana-ish for me. Thailand wasn't much better as he came off rather cranky. The (unfortunately shorter) sections on Cambodia and Vietnam were the highlight for me.I had been unable to get through his autobiographical The Summing Up as too dense to be worth it, so ... I guess I'm just not a fan of his non-fiction.
Excelente escolha para companheiro de viagem por terras de Sião. Li e reli cada linha, sentindo verdadeiramente os mesmos odores, as gentes, alguns dos locais já percorridos, as cores...quase 100 anos após a aventura de S. Maugham, o Oriente não pára de me fascinar!!
Beautiful prose, gorgeous descriptions - how I wish I had travelled to Asia when Maugham did. Always a pleasure to read his Asian writings.
But that perspective of Maugham's, I suppose, is what makes this book work so well.
As he describes venturing through mountain trails on the backs of mules, exploring the ancient ruins of Siam and Cambodia, and encountering the mysteries of Bangkok and Saigon, it all sounds more like an expedition, an adventure, rather than a mere traveler's report.
In particular, he is at his strongest in describing the Moment, that time spent on a sampan during a Saigon night, the bewitchment of the ancient ruins of Angkor disappearing into the gathering gloom of evening, or the indescribably hidden unknowns of Bangkok that refuse to let themselves be known to the visitor.I especially enjoyed his encounter with Bangkok.
This book is one of the best travel books written at its time. Currently travelling through Southeast Asia (and being a fellow writer), I share many of the sentiments W. Somerset Maugham experienced. I am amazed about the timelessness of this novel even though so much has changed over the last 80 years since its publication. I'm so glad I found this in a Cambodian bookstore- it's a classic.
Um pitada da Ásia com uma escrita informal.Uma descrição da Ásia há alguns anos atrás.Que em algumas situações nos mostra, que por lá o tempo anda bem mais devagar do que nos países dito desenvolvidos.
A marvelous work by Maugham. Even in something as pedestrian as one might think a travel book might be, his use of just the right phrase and his common sense humanity shine through.
Chapter four contains many instances of I; chapter five is problematic.
“The Gentleman in the Parlour” is very descriptive, going into detail on the buildings and surroundings, the clothes the people wear, the food they eat, the weather – if this is your thing then you’ll enjoy the heck of out this book.
It feels like you’re being told a story by a human version of Carroll’s Cheshire Cat. But overall I would rate it quite low in this writer’s list of great works and would instead implore the curious reader to pick up his more accomplished and beautiful books “Of Human Bondage” and “The Painted Veil”, the latter of which is set in South East Asia and is a far more entertaining book.
Maugham himself deprecates his ability to write several times, claiming himself nothing compared to a poet.
Yet he still attempts to find poetry in the people and places he visits.
Sometimes it works, but other times, such as his visit to Angkor Wat, do not.
In one paragraph, he claims Angkor Wat is beyond description—or at least his ability to describe it.
This book is a continual push-pull of a writer wanting to find something special to write about while also refusing to do so but attempting to do it nonetheless.
Somerset Maugham is one of my favorite authors, so I was kind of looking forward to this book, but it wasn't nearly as great as I expected.
It is a travelogue of Mr. Maugham's solo trip from Rangoon to Hong Kong in 1920.
Things were very different back then and his story of his trip traveling along as a privileged white English man captures a time, place and attitude that seems completely alien to my life.
And the fact that Somerset seemed to know how strange it was, while at the same time taking advantage of it adds a touch of a schizophrenic edge to the whole thing.
A rather humdrum account of mainland SE Asia in the early 20th C. Punctuated by occasional brilliantly insighful, yet tragic accounts of the lives of colonialists residing in foreign lands far from familiar environs. Maugham's expertise at narrating human drama is readily apparent even in his non-fiction work. Indeed, the people he met through his travels formed the basis for many of his short stories. Descriptions of scenery and surroundings are somewhat less memorable. Thankfully they are not long enough to make the book too tedious.
Probably for Maugham super-fans only, so that means I liked it. It's a travel memoir, and if you can imagine traveling through Burma (now Myanmar), Siam (Thailand), Vietnam, etc. by donkey and boat, then this is the book for you. Full of the usual Maugham stuff, of Englishmen in far-flung outposts of the empire, drinking and sweating and marrying the natives but still treating them as a lesser race.
Brilliantly written as you'd expect from WSM but a bit plodding and uneventful.He does however manage to perfectly capture a part of the world that is gone forever thanks to appalling conflict and awful politics.
Outstanding little gem of a book! A must-read for all those who enjoy travel writing and especially writing about the East. A very perspective book that is a perfect time capsule of Indo-China in the 1920s.
O lectură uşoară , relaxantă după care rămâne un parfum exotic al unor tărâmuri îndepărtate. Am făcut o scurtă recenzie pe blog :http://roxana-martek.blogspot.ro/2016...
This travelog reminds me of my own traveling - dealing briefly with the sights, while recounting the routine of travel, the people encountered and the details of a journey. Interesting to read about places he visited almost 100 years before we did.
