https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192887.The_Unpleasantness_at_the_Bellona_Club
While the woman's time of death was fixed right away it was completely unclear in case of her brother.
Lord Peter Wimsey was asked by an attorney of one of the interested parties to investigate.
Auguste Dupin (do not even let me get started on noir PIs) Lord Peter Wimsey is bland, like plain steamed chicken meat.
This time his initial investigation gripped me and did not let go.
Unexpectedly the second half degenerated into a melodrama with all people talking about feelings of a young woman non-stop.
No serious investigation was made and the identity of the culprit came as a byproduct of these talks.
This is the fifth Dorothy Sayers novel I have read in her Lord Peter Wimsey series, and I continue to enjoy her writing, and Lord Peter’s character development.
His intuition continues to develop – even when some of the suspects have lines of evidence with arrows at the end pointing right at them, Lord Peter finds cracks in those lines and shows how they were bent to point in the wrong direction.These are not fast-paced, heart-racing novels by any means.
He's been dead two days.' Look at old Ormsby there, snoring like a hippopotamus.
. .'ABOUT THIS BOOK: Ninety-year old General Fentiman has been estranged for years from his sister, Lady Dormer.
The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club is #5 in the series and Lord Peter's personality is beginning to flower - he really is quite a sweetie with a kind heart, a man who likes to see people happy.
Sayers is best known for her mysteries, a series of novels and short stories set between World War I and World War II that feature English aristocrat and amateur sleuth Lord Peter Wimsey.
Published in 1928 this Lord Peter Wimsey mystery is set around Remembrance Day. When Wimsey arrives at the Bellona Club he meets up with his friend, George Fentiman, who is a victim of poison gas and shell shock during the war.
This novel sees Lord Peter Wimsey, and author Dorothy L.
Solicitor Mr Murbles asks Lord Peter to investigate which of them died first; as the terms of Lady Dormer’s will mean that if she died first, Robert and George Fentiman will inherit a fortune.
Sayers novels and Lord Peter Wimsey is one of my favourite fictional sleuths.
Their roles have shifted to encompass more than ever before; but there is a feeling both that this is not appropriate (as in the case of George's opinion) and that it hasn't been earned (see Robert's "I bet she never did anything in the Great War, Daddy" when talking about Ann Dorland's inheritance.
I also appreciate that Sayers found a way to structure her story so as to use it as a reminder of an ongoing issue at the time: Men living with cases of shell-shock years and years after the Great War. Listening to the way it was handled by the gruff, privileged Englishmen who populate this story was actually unexpectedly affecting.The next in the collection is Strong Poison, and I’m very curious to see if I like it any better in radio version than I did in print.
A Crimean War veteran, General Fentiman, died in his chair at the Bellona Club.
Lord Peter Wimsey is there too.
Since the general was very old, nobody asks any questions.
Well, not until they realize it is very important to know the exact time of the general's death because of a surprising inheritance.Next thing you know, any other weird things pile up and Lord Wimsey is asked to find out the exact time of the man's death.
You may think where the author is leading us, but I wouldn't count on it.Lord Peter Wimsey is one of my favourite amateur investigators.
On the surface, a pleasant puzzle-piecey little murder mystery, with Peter bounding here and there, declaiming and detectiving his way to an answer.
What an uncomfortable book, with people turning and twisting and snagging on each other like brambles on silk.
Everyone stuck inside a little box called marriage or poverty or shell shock or police rules.
This book is all tight spaces – the badly lit veteran’s club, the body crammed up tight in the phone box, the stifling social scene.
There’s something bitter and angry down deep here, something peculiarly postwar and female and stuck in a way I can’t put my finger more precisely on.
Another thing that struck me this time round (and I may be completely wrong) is that Ann Dorland, one of the heirs and thus a potential suspect, was a prototype of Harriet Vane, who will turn up in the next novel as LPW's love interest.
I could develop it for the next novel".A good mystery, of course: Sayers is nothing if not ingenious (although this is two times in quick succession that the victim has been an elderly person who would soon die anyway...) But it's the brooding, foggy feel of the book that really gives it its worth.

Now of course what makes Lord Peter Wimsey the main protagonist is that he is ALWAYS two moves ahead of everyone else in the story.
At times it feels like even the narrator is trying to catch up with him and it makes for good reading as you are trying to guess ahead of the protagonists only to find out that Lord Peter is still ahead of you.
Well this is the first but not last Peter Wimsey I will be reading as I have been told that from here it really takes off into some Sayers' best mystery writing.
I couldn't locate my copy so I had .to get it from the library.
When all else fails, try the library.I remembered some of it.
And there is interior discussion for Wimsey, remembering when he had to check in somewhere to chill out.
As this book came out in 1928 this is something that would have spoken to the audience then.
And the book begins on Armistice or Rememberance Day, so nerves would already have been on edge.
I haven't read any of the Wimsey stories for a while and so had forgotten how much I enjoyed them.
11/29/16 - another re-read.
It’s fortunate for me that these books are so familiar to me by now, because I got distracted by other books in the middle of this.
It’s not my favourite of the bunch, which helps to explain why; I do like the conflicts between Parker and Peter that’re brought out by the nature of the story, the awkwardness between them as Peter has to suspect one of his own friends.
I can never quite decide what I think about those endings: they give Peter a kind of out, so that he doesn’t have to do the ungentlemanly thing.
There’s some excellent character interactions — especially one between Lord Peter and Parker, where Peter is somewhat resenting the fact that he’s working with the police and potentially having to betray friends.
Yes!This is one of the not-really-high-stakes mysteries, though; the death was of an old man, and was somewhat predictable, and the person who killed him didn’t try to cover his tracks by attacking other people.
A solid mystery, but not the most emotionally involving of the Wimsey books, nor the cleverest.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
Nonetheless, it’s a solid mystery novel and it raises some interesting moral questions.In the beginning of this novel, Peter is asked not to investigate a crime but to ascertain the exact time of death of an old member of the Bellona Club.
If you read this novel before reading any other in the series, you wouldn’t know how Peter looks or what his family is like.
I guess it’s not #1 in the series after all, but then why does it list the year of publication the earliest of all other Peter Wimsey novels?
Honestly, I've been reading all these Dorothy Sayers books in secret recently, but I can't hide it anymore.
It's female flowering dogwoods, power-saws so she can do more home repair, and mystery novels by women.
Like Tolkien, I draw the line at Harriet Vane, and yes "Wimsey" is so precious a name for a character that I feel mildly ill.
This is why my mom is so into re-reading the same mystery novels.
I don't even know what I'm talking about now: I'm rendered inarticulate because I just want to finish up and rush back to bed with another Wimsey.
Featuring Ian Carmichael as Lord Peter Wimsey, Peter Jones as Bunter, and Gabriel Woolf as Inspector ParkerThis has never been my favourite of the books, though it does touch on some of the horrors of war (in the figure of George Fentiman) and there are some interesting moral issues — particularly because this is one of those books in which Peter chooses to offer someone a “gentlemanly way out”.
To offer a way round the law?It’s one of those stories in which Peter is asked whether he’s a detective or a gentleman, and he pretty much dodges the issue.The radioplay is a fun enough adaptation, though the pacing is bizarre.
This is the book where Sayers starts to hit her stride with Lord Peter.
He is suddenly beginning to look like a fully fleshed out man, perceptive, subtly hard-edged, sometimes silly, and thoroughly likable.
The mystery gives us a chance to see him puzzle out two different puzzles while watching him measure up people.
I like how Sayers throws social commentary around artfully.
She never preaches, but I always find myself nodding along, wondering why I didn't think of that.
The reason I didn't is that I am not the inimitable Dorothy Sayers.
What a class of writers those Oxford Christians were!
An elderly member of the club, General Fentiman has died in the club, and while the circumstances aren't suspicious, there is a problem.
However, there is some confusion over exactly when General Fentiman died as nobody really noticed.
He was just sitting there in the club having a snooze...Wimsey is brought in by the Fentiman's – fellow club members and all that – to help clear the confusion up, and keep the club from any more 'unpleasantness'.
Both of them have biases that they're trying to be objective about – Wimsey obviously sympathises with his friend Fentiman who has PTSD and Marjorie sympathises with her friend, Ann Dorland, one of the top suspects – both pretty unsuccessfully.
The fact that roughly 90% of my assigned reading material this semester is stuff I would be reading for pleasure anyway is truly a wonderful occurrence.
Dorothy Sayers, in my opinion, is one of the major novelists from the golden age of detective authors in the 1920s and 1930s in the US but the best author has to be John Dickson Carr. His "Devil in Velvet" (time travel book regarding a pact with the devil) was sublime as were all of his other books, I believe that there were more than eighty, although the latter ones, in my opinion, were not so good.Still Dorothy Sayers definitely deserves her place in history.
Lord Peter shouldn't have given it another thought, but the next thing you know we are following him through the book trying to figure out just what did happen to the old man.
So they both died the same morning which brings a mass of confusion into the story, I'll let General Fentiman's lawyer tell you and Lord Peter all about it:‘A good many years before her death, Lady Dormer—who, as I said before, was an eminently generous-minded woman—made a will.
But this didn't even bother me, first because he has a very sweet conversation with a female suspect and is generally lovely, and also because this is the fifth Lord Peter mystery and that means that Harriet Vane is coming in the next book, and she is going to rock his world.
A Peter Wimsey mystery would not be complete without at least one delightfully clever exchange between two characters, and this book doesn't disappoint.
Only I warn you that I shall make a point of asking you the meaning of all the risky bits in a very audible voice.''That's your idea of amusement, is it?''Yes. It does make them so wild.
Old General Fentiman is found dead in his favorite armchair at London's Bellona Club, still clutching his morning newspaper.
So begins The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club (1928) by Dorothy L.
Fellow Bellona club member, the monocled Lord Peter Wimsey, decides to get involved in determining exactly when and where the old man died.
Much of the book takes place in the Bellona Club itself, and Dorothy L.
The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club is not just an intriguing mystery, but an all round very well-written novel.
Lord Peter Wimsey is on the scene and asked to make private inquiries.The answer to the first question is pretty clear from the start; but just as the reader is indulging in self-congratulation for penetrating the mystery, it becomes more complex.
In this installment of the Lord Peter series, we find him becoming more mature than in earlier books—less flip and more serious.This was a satisfying book for me, with only one of the characters (Robert) not entirely consistent or believable in my view.
As ever with Sayers mysteries, the narration is elegant, the scenes richly evoked, the dialogue clever and natural.
I am entertained by the mysteries that Sayers invented, but I think what I truly adore is getting to know Lord Peter and his history more fully with each installment.
While I think that Sayers started out making Wimsey more like Wodehouse’s Bertie Wooster (only in the first book mind you), but I am so glad that she turned right around and began to use him as her agent in both sleuthing and social commentary.
He's been dead two days.' Look at old Ormsby there, snoring like a hippopotamus.
All because health professionals just expect folks in nursing homes to die and are unwilling to look further).
Η 5η ιστορία του Λόρδου Peter Wimsey κυκλοφορεί από τις εκδόσεις Ωκεανίδα με τον τίτλο "Δυσάρεστα επεισόδια στη Λέσχη Bellona" και έχει μεταφερθεί σε audio book με αφηγήτρια τη Μαίρη Πάντου.Ο εκλεπτυσμένος Λόρδος καλείται να εξιχνιάσει ένα ακόμα μυστήριο.
Η ιστορία διαδραματίζεται στο Λονδίνο, στη Λέσχη Bellona, στην οποία τυχαίνει να συχνάζει συχνά πυκνά ο Λόρδος προκειμένου να σκοτώσει την ανία του.
Part of the problem with this book is I set it down for a week or so.
Not a good idea for a book with a somewhat complicated plot!
there were several times when the plot felt like it was winding down and then PLOT TWIST happened to keep it going.
I can like plot twists like that, but the ones here just felt so last minute.
And it was all pretty convoluted.Didn't really like the end either.
(view spoiler)[Peter basically encouraging the murderer to kill himself!
Though I guess I do see where he was coming from.
(hide spoiler)]Oh well.
I'm sure Sayers knows her strength is in good conversation: the final chapter is a load of snippets of dialogue without indication of who says what, but the characters are so vivid and well-defined in this book that we can tell everything from the dialogue.
For example, Parker accuses Lord Peter of being difficult because he's 'artistic', and the narrator observes that 'For some reason, the word "artistic" produces the most alarming reactions in people who know anything about art.' Does that clarify my clumsy observation?
Centuries of the 'women-and-children-first' idea, I suppose.
We're obviously meant to find him a sympathetic character, and as long as I'm wearing my Suspension-Of-Disbelief Hat I do like him, but sometimes he catches me by surprise when I'm feeling awkwardly 21st-century and then I'm strongly tempted to take a shovel to him.
As the series continues his more irritating mannerisms wear off, and he reveals himself in all his glory as a full-on Renaissance man and polymath, loved by people in all spheres of society and irresistible to women.
Is it, as we're obviously meant to see it, a great romance between two people who were destined to be together?
