https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33253215-the-heart-s-invisible-furies
Maybe there were no villains in my mother’s story at all. Just men and women, trying to do their best by each other. And failing. This book. THIS BOOK. I cannot remember the last time I became so thoroughly immersed in a story, fell so deeply in love with the characters, and had my heart so fully ripped out. The Heart's Invisible Furies is a masterpiece. Most people will know Boyne from his hard-hitting children's book The Boy in the Striped Pajamas, but this book is something else entirely.I'm
I cannot remember the last time I became so thoroughly immersed in a story, fell so deeply in love with the characters, and had my heart so fully ripped out.
At one point, the characters have a discussion about authors and what makes a good book and I found this quote especially fitting:
It is rife with the sexism and homophobia typical of the era.The story moves from the postwar period, showing an Ireland that is almost theocratic in its obsession with the church, to the more liberal 1980s in Amsterdam, to New York City in the middle of the AIDs crisis, and back to a more modern Ireland that is moving towards the legalization of gay marriage.There's a lot of the kind of humour I really like, which tempers a story that is in many ways an incredibly sad one.
No one talks about sex, yet it's all they think about".....( says one New Yorker character in the story).
......"Ireland is a backward place – – people with no empathy for anyone" ( says a character in Amsterdam) ......Belvedere College is a catholic college for boys: ....
GREAT DISCUSSION BOOK .....BECAUSE YOU'LL miss this novel so much when it ends - you'll be excited to talk about it with other people!
I didn't want the book to end!!!Meet sexy handsome outgoing best friend Julian.
Meet Good girl Mary Margaret Muffet: FUNNY DIALOGUE in every scene she is in!!She becomes Cyril's first fiancé.
The first paragraph of the book is what grabbed me:  Long before we discovered that he had fathered two children by two different women, one in Drimoleague and one in Clonakilty, Father James Monroe stood on the altar of the Church of Our Lady, Star of the Sea, in the parish of Goleen, West Cork, and denounced my mother as a whore. Pretty powerful stuff, that. Little Cyril is telling the story as a babe not even born yet and the story he told, whew. I was appalled at what that priest did to his
Little Cyril is telling the story as a babe not even born yet and the story he told, whew.
I guess they loved Cyril in their own way and was never hurt but all of his life he seemed to miss out on something.
The story is told in different times of Cyril's life, from birth until old age.
Cyril was a gay man living in a time where you could be put in jail for it or killed and nothing done about it.
I loved how the story connected so many people in the book over the years.
Long before we discovered that he had fathered two children by two different women, one in Drimoleague and one in Clonakilty, Father James Monroe stood on the altar of the Church of Our Lady, Star of the Sea, in the parish of Goleen, west C ork, and denounced my mother as a whore.  I imagine I must have been under some sort of a curse for the last sixteen years or so. How else to explain that I just finished reading my first John Boyne novel. Must be the luck of the Irish, well the Irish-Americ
In addition to the priest of the opening paragraph publicly shaming and expelling a pregnant 16-year-old, a murderer is set free because a jury finds “that his crime had been committed under the extreme provocation of having a mentally disordered son.” Crooked cops, bribed jurors, a blackmailing lawyer, child-abusing priests, (by reference only, thankfully) political sorts of the terroristic stripe, a boy expelled from a school on trumped up charges because of his parents’ politics, violent homophobes, pimping parents, corrupt financiers, compulsive womanizers, and over all, the shame and hypocrisy nails hammered into Irish society by The Church.
While it helped to give a "complete" picture of the social climate and setting, it also made the book drag, in my opinion.The book tells the story of Cyril Avery, a boy born out of wedlock to a young girl that was outcast by her family and community when her pregnancy was discovered.
They only laid claim to him when it suited their personal interests, such as when his adoptive father faced jail time and wanted to appear more sympathetic to the jury.Cyril's only friend was a boy named Julian, who Cyril had been in love with since they first met.
Baby Cyril is adopted by a wealthy but unconventional couple, and although he isn't badly treated, he's never shown any real love and is constantly reminded that he's not a real Avery and never will be.As Cyril grows older, he begins to realise that he's not like other boys, he has no interest in girls, and indeed when he meets Julian Woodbead at the age of 7, he's completely obsessed with him and this will continue for many years.
I became completely invested in the characters, and wanted to rage at the way Cyril was treated because of his homosexuality - he just wanted to live like everyone else with the one he loved - was that too much to ask?
John Boyne embodies the heartbreaking history of Ireland and the Catholic Church in the post war years from 1945 to 2015 through the ordinary life and times of Cyril Avery.
The most important people in Cyril's life are childhood friend, Julian Woodbead who he meets when he is 7 years old and the dedicated and insightful Dutch docter, Bastiaan, encountered in Amsterdam who views Irish attitudes with bemusement.
A Catholic Church bought to its knees by abuse and scandals is a welcome progressive development in Irish history, the people voting for gay marriage even more so.
When I first started reading this I had no idea of how much I would end up loving this book.
I fell in love with the child produced, Cyril and we will follow his life over the course of seventy years, each segment continuing after the passing seven years.
When he is seven something happens that changes and affect his life for many, many years.
A tragedy will unfold there, once again changing the course of his life,and eventually we end up full circle back in Ireland but an Ireland much changed.
BEST OF THE BEST IN MY BOOK!In THE HEART'S INVISIBLE FURIES, the story begins in Ireland and Catholic priests rule.As for this reader, John Boyne rules.....Get ready to laugh, be shocked, appalled and heartbroken (continuously) as you read Cyril Avery's life story.
The writing is so effective here, I could almost feel the.....um fallout.Anyway, as the story evolves, even in America, Cyril and "his lot" endure cruelty and hardships of the worst kind.
As for the reader....the shocks just keep on coming.DO NOT miss this one!
Highly Recommend!Many thanks to NetGalley, John Boyne and Crown Publishing for the ARC in exchange for my honest review.
The story a man struggling in a society that doesn't accept homosexuality, living with the odd people who adopted him at three days old, who said he'd never be an Avery .
How is it possible for him to have a capacity for love, for caring when he experiences no love or comfort or caring in these early years with his cold "adoptive " parents?
But mostly it is one man's journey in his struggle to be who he is in times when it doesn't seem possible and mostly his unwavering and amazing capacity to love in spite of everything.
Few authors can slay me emotionally while simultaneously making me think, the way that John Boyne does. His book  The Absolutist  (see my original review), is one of my favorite books of all time, and also made my list of the best books I read in 2012. Five years later, I still can't get that book out of my mind or my heart.While not all of Boyne's books have caught my interest, his latest,  The Heart's Invisible Furies , utterly knocked me out. I read the entire book in one day (thanks to two a
There was a little too much violence in this book (not truly graphic in every case) but I know the scenes were in keeping with the world and time in which they were set.This book didn't leave me in tears as often as The Absolutist did, but it moved me all the same.
I know I'll be thinking of the beauty and emotion of The Heart's Invisible Furies for some time.NetGalley and Crown Publishing provided me an advance copy of the book in exchange for an unbiased review.
In fact, I learned that most Irish, male or female, gay or straight, are actually obsessed with sex in one way or another.
As Cyril’s life changes through his boyhood into his twenties, then his thirties, he still hasn’t figured out that maybe life’s challenges are actually there to teach him something; that maybe self-pity and nurturing feelings of being misunderstood are not a healthy way for anyone to make something productive of their life.Even life-changing and positive relationships don’t seem to work for our Cyril.
The rumbling undercurrents of anger alternating with abject self-pity did put me off, but maybe that was intended.
The Heart’s Invisible Furies made me feel everything, I laughed, I was sad, I was hopeful and then disappointed, I was enraged by the people’s mentalities and I even wanted to punch a couple of the characters in the face, even the main character (and hug him afterwards).
The novel begins in post WW2 Ireland, a country of sexual suppression ruled by the mighty Catholic Church.
The novel is the story of the child’s life.
One of the main characters is Ireland and its stupid, stupid Catholic prejudices and hypocrisy.
There are some coincidental meetings between characters when I had to scream No way, in my mind.
As you can see, I loved this novel and it seems the year started very well.
Cyril loved Julian from the moment they meet, but even his best friend won’t accept the truth when he finds out that he is gay and becomes very upset with him because he didn’t tell the truth from the beginning.As time moves forward, many different events take place.
Will Cyril ever find the love he deserves and will it last?-There were parts of the story that were slow, but something would happen to pull me right back in again.-I had many emotions when reading this book and even laughed and cried a few times.
"Why should we take advice on sex from the pope? If he knows anything about it, he shouldn't." -George Bernard ShawAt the outset, author John Boyle sets the scene that will lay the foundation for this bittersweet, decade-traversing novel: sixteen-year-old Catherine Goggan is with child in a god-fearing, godforsaken part of rural Ireland. But this is Ireland in 1945, when blind prejudice is as ubiquitous as clover in the meadows. And, because of her supposedly egregious sin, the town's misogynis
Acting as God's sole representative on Earth, he kicks her to the ground and summarily banishes her from the town, never to darken its doors again.There ensues a rites-of-passage story shadowing the chequered life of her son, whom she's forced to relinquish after giving birth to him in the most desperate of circumstances.Adopted by Dublin's most eminently dysfunctional parents, the boy is named Cyril.And it's here that the story barrelled along wonderfully for the first 40% of my read.
In “The Heart’s Invisible Furies,” John Boyne takes us on the journey of Cyril Avery’s life.
John Boyne makes you fall in love with every single character in this brilliant novel.
Cyril, his best friend Julian Woodbead, Julian’s sister Alice, Bastiaan and Ignaac.
Then, at the age of seven, Cyril undergoes a defining moment.
In that exact moment, Cyril knows.
He also knows that in Ireland, in that day and age, it is not acceptable, thus Cyril keeps it a secret and so it begins.
I loved this novel like no other.
Lindsay and I loved Cyril like no other character.
A young man named Seán gets on the bus at a later stop and eventually starts up a conversation with Catherine, and when they arrive in Dublin, it is to Seán’s friend Jack’s place they go, where Catherine will end up staying.
Told in seven-year increments, in 1952 we are introduced to young Cyril Avery, the adopted son of Roger and Maud Avery.
We follow Cyril from Dublin to Amsterdam, to New York, and eventually back to Ireland again, covering more than the struggle for gay rights; this also touches on the topic of sexual slavery, and more.
Reading a big book can be like eating a massive plate of noodles, when you really just want to get to the luscious meatball nuggets buried somewhere in there (vegetarians, please imagine tofu nuggets; I must make this analogy relatable!).
This is an epic story about a gay guy, Cyril (ha, rhymes with squirrel, in case you didn’t know) who grows up in Dublin at a time when the attitude toward gays is brutal.
But I never felt like the book was lecture-y or message-y.-It’s a story I won’t forget.
I am having a hard time finding the proper way to describe my love for this book.
I felt an immediate connection to this novel – from page 1, I was fully invested in Cyril’s life.
I felt so many emotions throughout the pages of this captivating book – happiness, anxiety, sorrow, sadness, anger, disappointment, excitement……and the list goes on.
Can’t wait to read his other work!This was a Traveling Sister Read with the lovely Brenda and Susanne and their company along the way made this journey even more enjoyable!
To find this review, along with their Traveling Sister reviews, please visit Brenda and Norma's fabulous blog at:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/2...
On reading the first bit of this story I thought everyone five starring this book had lost their minds...it wasn't bad but I was not turning pages very fast.
(You are going to have to read this one because nothing can describe this book.)Cyril starts to grow up and begins to realize that his feelings for his best friend Julian are not what the people around him would feel comfortable with.
And it's a magical trip.The only thing I'd have to say bad about this book is that I think the size of it may keep people from reading it.
I’m happy say I do not regret for one moment the fews days following that I felt compelled to read and review an entire book in the same day just to stay on schedule.
Even in the lightest moments in this book, there was a heaviness in my heart that may have dissipated but never completely went away.The Heart’s Invisible Furies if full of heartbreak, longing, and even humor – one of the most emotive books I’ve ever read.
But this is one time where you can believe that hype.The Heart's Invisible Furries tells the life story of Cyril Avery, well, he's not a REAL Avery.
Eventually, Cyril is adopted by Charles (love him) and Maude Avery and spends his early childhood with them.
Cyril is a bit of an odd one at times, sometimes so aloof, he appears clueless.
Seriously, one of the best audios I've listened to in a very long time, and probably a favorite of mine.
I'm looking for the print now and my only dilemma is.....do I read it, or listen to the audio the next time I revisit this one.
4.5 stars"Long before we discovered that he had fathered two children by two different women, one in Drimoleague and one in Clonakilty, Father James Monroe stood on the altar of the Church of Our Lady, Star of the Sea, in the parish of Goleen, West Cork, and denounced my mother as a whore."Catherine Goggin, age sixteen, had the misfortune of finding herself unwed and pregnant in a time and place wholly unforgiving of her condition – the time being the mid-1940s, and the place Ireland, a country then in the clutches of an unforgiving Catholic Church.
Cyril, Catherine, Julian, Charles, Maude, Mary-Margaret and Alice are among the many that nearly walk straight from the pages of the book and into your own life for a time.
Brilliant!!! I cried plenty, laughed lots, gasped at times, and sobbed on numerous occasions. A very emotional book, full of endearing (and some loathsome) characters and incidents. Fantastic writing, clever story telling, the sequence of events combined with fiction and factual were sublime. My favored aspect of this book was how the story lines were scattered here and there but eventually they all came to fruition. Best of 2017, in my top 10 favorite for the year.
Boyne in this story not only told us about the Ireland of 1945 but also how things slowly changed there and how it effected the society.
Then there is a jump of seven years and we are again left at a moment of big change in Cyril's life.
Even though Boyne kept the tone of the story light but there was no denying the horrors and difficulties that homosexuals faced in those times.
This is a beautiful story about changing times, kindness, forgiveness, and acceptance/tolerance of people about issues that they don't want to face and hide away from.
Easily one of the best books that I read this year.

Among the tales of sorrow and of ruin that come down to us from the darkness of those days there are yet some in which amid weeping there is joy and under the shadow of death light that endures.—J.R.R. Tolkien, The SilmarillionI love a fairy tale.
From the hunchback old woman delivering the foundling babe to the castle until the happy wedding at the end.
Well, not precisely a foundling, nor royalty in a castle for that matter, but close enough.
The key phrase "a little hunchbacked Redemptorist nun" comes up a lot.
But, you hear a lot more about the great infatuation of his life.I enjoyed the book so much that none of that mattered.
This is my second book by this author and I have not got a single word of criticism to make about his writing.The Heart's Invisible Furies tells the tale of Cyril Avery's life, right from his mother's unfortunate pregnancy to his eventual death.
Cyril is a wonderful character who makes some shocking mistakes along the way but does good things too.
Without him Cyril's life would have been very different.I think Boyne has a talent for writing amazing and slightly unexpected endings.
In The Heart's Invisible Furies the final pages were unusual, happy, sad, emotional and ultimately perfect.Altogether one of my favourite reading experiences this year .
A brand new life is handed over to adoptive parents Charles and Maud Avery by a tiny hunchbacked nun.
The wee babe is to be Cyril Avery.
He will never be allowed to forget that he is not a real Avery.
Such very odd parents (make that adoptive parents - do not get that wrong or you will be corrected).
Cyril is sheltered and naive, but his world changes exponentially when he meets Julian.
A vow is made, 'I would be normal if it killed me.' Love, loss, friendship and all that it implies.
I loved every minute of this, and am truly sorry it is over.
As I read, I felt that I couldn’t get enough of Cyril’s first person narrative spanning the 70 years of his life as a gay Irishman.
Through Cyril’s story — including his mother’s story — he shows the complex ripple effects of a world in which unwed mothers and gay people are treated with utmost contempt.
-I loved how Cyril’s story spanned 70 years and engaged with Irish and world history.
Sure, it felt a bit grandiose at times to have Cyril directly involved in so many world events, but Boyne’s novel is grandiose.
