https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33602101-glass-houses
5 🥐 🥐 🥐 🥐 🥐 So you’re a fan and you’re starting to get stressed.How much longer can the author keep our hero sustainable?Or perhaps you’re superstitious and thinking #13 could mean bad luck rather than a baker’s dozen.How many murders can one small town suffer?How many times can you enjoy a cafe au lait with a warm croissant dripping butter?I know.As long as she keeps writing we will continue to turn the pages and be hungry.This one was exceptional, the best one yet; she’s taken it to a higher level—a higher love.There was so much goodness inside, if it was a restaurant it would be awarded 3 Michelin stars.
The less said the better since I don't want to give anything away, so my review will be very brief.
I will say fans of this series will not be disappointed, this one may well be the best so far.
A hard thing to accomplish in series of this length.
Gamache will put everything on the line.
So, so good, very suspenseful and as always the characters of Three Pines will pull together.
There is after all a great deal of love in this little town and a great deal of good.
No Gamache.The Cobrador: A tall, hooded figure robed in the midnight hour of black takes its position in the village center of Three Pines.
Is anyone safe from the guilt laid upon them for what they perceive as their own debts?Louise Penny has more incredible story frames locked within her mind than there are grapes in the Tuscany countryside.
The story opens with Gamache on the stand in the heat of July being endlessly questioned about the murder that took place the previous November.
My sincere appreciation to Minotaur Books and to Louise Penny for the opportunity.
It pains me to do this, as this is one of my favorite series, but I can't give it more than 2.5 stars (fair).With a new Penny book I settle in to spend time with my favorite characters in the quaint village of Three Pines.
The books have always been as much of a character study as a mystery, and it’s one of the things I’ve loved about the series.
I didn’t care for the opioid epidemic theme, and although the book opens with a murder trial, the victim isn’t identified until well past 50%.
"There is a higher court than courts of justice and that is the court of conscience. It supersedes all other courts." ~Gandhi In this 13th book of Louise Penny’s “Inspector Gamache” series, the peaceful village of Three Pines is being threatened by something menacing. A tall figure stands still and silent in the village square wearing a black robe and black mask. Menacing just by virtue of its dark presence, like a personification of Death itself.The stories of the cobrador of Spain tell of a p
In this 13th book of Louise Penny’s “Inspector Gamache” series, the peaceful village of Three Pines is being threatened by something menacing.
A tall figure stands still and silent in the village square wearing a black robe and black mask.
The author adds a dimension to this and the figure in this story becomes one of Conscience rather than debt.
The risks he is taking are huge and there are no guarantees that things will work out according to plan.This is one of Louise Penny’s best novels in the series so far – and that is saying something, as I have loved every one of them!
Labour Day weekend, and we get to spend a couple of days together...Last year, I went gaga over Louise Penny's annual dose of Armand Gamache and the folks in Three Pines.
Starting in a court room in Montreal, with Armand as a witness, Penny depicts the minutiae of a trial dealing with a murder that took place several months earlier -- I love good courtroom dramas so this aspect of the book was a real treat for me.
What a disappointment. I’ve enjoyed this series from the start but the last two books have been so far fetched. The previous book was about the small town, Three Pines, finding a huge war cannon in their forest, and Glass Houses, is about conscience. I dislike it when a series goes way off the mark and steers into different territory. I just want to read about a good old murder and listen to Gamache quote some poetry.3 out of 5 stars.
Anton is a dishwasher working in the bistro, and Jacqueline works in the boulangerie even though her talent does not include making baguettes.
This will not be the wonderful visit with old friends that I expect.There is a Cobrador, a masked, black-robed and -hooded figure standing on the village green hour after hour, day after day.
Chief Inspector Armand Gamache says the figure is doing nothing illegal.
All this makes me feel unsettled.
I asked the author, “Who are you, and what have you done with Louise Penny?” Then Penny picks up the pace and hits her stride in the second half.
Readers new to Penny’s series ought to begin where the stories began and progress accordingly.I have finally completed this major Louise Penny binge, reading her entire collection of Gamache novels that have been released, with one more set to land on my iPod in the coming weeks.
I have come to see a great deal of development in the series, both in the settings—particularly Three Pines—and the characters, especially Armand Gamache, the constant protagonist.
While I have come to the end of the binge, I can see great things for Penny, should she continue the series well into the future.
Scenes flip back and forth between a court case where you don’t even know the defendant is and the time leading forward from the figure arriving in Three Pines.
There’s always a bit of philosophy at work.
The biggest question is always why a murder was committed, not who committed it.
And here, there’s the added question of how things will play out against the drug cartel and what will be the cost.
I love returning to these characters; getting to know them a little better each time.
Make sure to read the author’s note at the end.
An enjoyable, engrossing read.
Modeled after a Cobrador, or Conscience with a capital C, everyone in the Village feels certain it has come for them.This is a hard review to write.
I’m a huge Louise Penny fan - I loved the first 11 books in the Inspector Gamache series and eagerly preordered the 12th, pouncing on it as soon as it arrived.
It is 75% of the way through the book before we find out who the accused murderer is.
The last chapters in the book, where the action finally comes to a head, reminds me of the old Louise Penny.
Since the last book Armand Gamache has moved on to higher things and now he is Chief Superintendent of the Quebec police.
Glass Houses commences in court with Armand giving evidence against an accused murderer.
In Penny's usual fashion she makes the reader wait for most of the book to find out who this murderer is.
In fact we spend a lot of the time in the dark as Penny and Gamache dole out information in tiny increments.The story is excellent and all of our favourite characters appear at some point.
We will have to wait until the next book to find out.
3.5 starsIn this 13th book in the 'Chief Inspector Armand Gamache' series, the detective is trying to destroy a drug cartel.
The book can be read as a standalone.*****Armand Gamache is now Chief Superintendent of the Sûreté du Québec, which he's spent years ridding of entrenched corruption.
Though the statue-like figure doesn't say a word, one can almost sense it thinking "J'ACCUSE." The creepy individual isn't an overt threat, so - though it makes the townsfolk VERY uncomfortable - there's nothing Gamache can do about it.
I was so very excited when I found this book on my holds shelf at the library.
I travelled this past week for work and enjoyed this book like the rest of Penny's masterpieces.
I've paid a month's late fees (I should have just bought the book)!I am definitely on the short list of Louise Penny's best fans!
Truly she is brilliant and her books are works of art!The good news is my wife caught her breast cancer early and after a crappy year her prognosis will look great.
Like a lot of good readers, I was as interested in Louise Penny's personal loss as her latest novel.
Still Life came out in 2005, but a feel like I've known her longer.Whitehead, (Dr.) Victor Michael B.A., M.A., M.D.C.M., C.S.P.Q., F.R.C.P.C (born April 10, 1934), was called to Glory on September 18, 2016, after a breathtakingly, achingly valiant and dignified battle with dementia.
Predeceased by his parents, George Victor and Doris (Jack), his brother Edward and sister Carol (Lloyd-Jones), and his first wife, Sheilagh (Ryan).
Michael leaves behind his wife Louise (Penny), his sons, Michael, Richard (Kathy) and Victor, two grandchildren and countless friends...
I didn't think i could be surprised by our dear author again, but my God was i surprised and nicely so ;Gamache crossed a big line !
Our beloved police chief applied the famous saying that "the end justifies the means" by letting thousands of people die in order to draw the evil to him and cut his head so to speak , it was a huge gamble for him: everyone was turning against him and the popo ...
A very suspenseful tale, flash-back style ......On a sad note my deepest sympathy to Ms P : may your husband find peace in the afterlife.
We all know the residents so well: Clara Morrow, the hugely successful portrait artist; Dr. Myrna Landers, the retired psychologist and now owner of The New And Used Bookstore right next to the Bistro; Gabri Dubeau, who ran the local B&B with his partner Olivier; Katie and Patrick Evans, the contractor and his architect wife who build glass houses; Jacqueline and Sarah from the bakery (in her world a good baguette was a magic wand that solved all problems); Anton, the new dishwasher and bus at the bistro; guests Matheo Bissonette and his wife Lea Roux, the member of the National Assembly, old friends of the Evanses; and the rest of Three Pines.It all became weird with that Halloween party in the Bistro, when Gamache thought the person in the black costume looked like Death...
Unique to the series, Glass Houses opens with Armand Gamache on the witness stand giving evidence in a murder trial.
His recounting of the events which led to a murder in Three Pines the previous November bring chills to those in the courtroom.
She adds details and quotes which sent this reader off to research, hoping to understand, with deeper analysis, what is going on in the hearts and minds of the speakers.
The Three Pines gang slip into their expected roles and add light to what is often a very dark read.
But...why is Armand Gamache now on the witness stand testifying about a death that occurred during the time the hooded figure was present?We follow the situation by being introduced to the trial and then back again to the events in Three Pines with the hooded figure standing on the village green.
This is one of the best Louise Penny books so far. The isolated Three Pines setting is very believable as a small town somewhere not far from Gaspe and the Magdalen Islands. Penny gives Gamache a good twist on just how big and hard to solve drug trafficking is.Here and there are a few detours and characters that felt unnecessary, but that's an exceptionally minor point in the way Penny continues to bring alive this part of the world and the way she describes Gamache's willingness to attack a huge problem in a way that is both head-on and round-about.
But even before the forest held a weapon for Doom's Day use- the direction it was heading did give you clues.This book #13 has abysmal order of operations to telling the tale.
If it's November you know one fraction of the information you need for the context to this tale (it's when "the group" was staying in the B&B and when "the murder" occurred); if it's mid summer sweltering trial heat (no a.c. in the court)- than you know it is "later" the next summer and we view all the pertinent players at the trial for that crime.But that's just a small part of the fear factor that's the core issue of this book, beyond the drug cartels or crime occurrences.
It supercedes all other courts."  Mahatma GandhiThe 13th book in the Armand Gamache series deals a great deal with our conscience and how the conscience can make you feel or act out.
Timely and highly inventive on Ms. Penny's part, although I felt it got a bit complicated (and a tad drawn out) toward the middle.
Gamache has found his voice!
This audiobook had a piece at the end with Robert Bathurst and Louise Penny having a 30 minute conversation about her writing process.
It was the first time they'd met in person and Penny was very open and forthcoming.
3.5 starsI had mixed feelings about this latest book in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series.
But the next day the mysterious figure appears on the village green.
Someone has identified the mysterious robed and masked figure as a Cobrador.
And then one day the mysterious figure is gone and then a body is found.This is not just a murder story.
It toggles back and forth between the murder trial in July and the events in Three Pines back in November.
We learn who the murder victim was.
We learn about Armand's plan on the war against the drug cartels.
What it is, is real; human.With the story moving back to Three Pines, we meet/are reacquainted with so many wonderful characters.
Even so, Penny never loses sight of the fact that the book is also an excellent, and ultimately highly suspenseful, expertly crafted mystery with twist upon twist upon twist.
Just when you think her new book can’t be better than the last, it is.
If you’ve not read her before, you really should.GLASS HOUSES (Pol Proc-Armand Gamache-Montreal/Three Pines, Canada-Contemp) - Ex	Penny, Louise – 13th in series	Minotaur Books – Aug 2017
Good Grief this was a great read for me.I spent three quarters of this book immersed in a trial without even knowing who the defendant was, or even if they were female or male.
I mean in the sense that I know there were other things that happened prior to this book, but I didn't feel as though I missed out on anything!!!I know I am preaching to the choir when I say that I was so mesmerized by this book.
I grew to love these characters and really miss them now that I've left Three Pines.Thanks to St. Martin's Press and Net Galley for providing me with a free e-galley in exchange for an honest, unbiased review.
Unfortunately, there is something deeply annoying about the way Louise Penny writes that I struggle to see beyond."This was closer than she'd ever been to him, and for a more sustained length of time.
She had them too."The wise Gamache, superintendent, is lying to the court at a murder trial.
At the same time, Gamache is trying to do something about the run away drug problems.
I definitely regret reading this.
I am so tired of the saintly, wise Gamache and even the lovely villagers of Three Pines could not put me in a good mood.
This is definitely my last Louise Penny book.
5+ stars ~ My favorite in the series! Louise Penny has outdone herself with the 13th novel in the Armand Gamache series!I absolutely loved the format of this one; alternating storylines that make the book more suspenseful.There is so much love in this book and in the village of Three Pines. The ending left me with tears in my eyes.
Unrealistic "victory" and strategy to stop drug cartel that moved at a very slow place. I have read all the books in the series but I think I need to stop.
And if you go down there you better just beware, but the same should be said for Louise Penny’s fictional town of Three Pines—the location where most of the murders in her novels happen.
This dark imposing figure alarms and agitates the entire village until everyone is bouncing around like a case of golf balls that had fallen off their semi onto the freeway asphalt.And then comes the murder!The mystery is fantastic, but we all read these novels for the characters—they are the real draw here and continue to be so.
About three years ago, I started reading the Inspector Gamache series by Louise Penny.
Immediately, I fell in love with the quirky characters, the intricate plots, and - above all - the quaint setting.
Most of Penny's books take place in the village of Three Pines which is in Quebec, Canada.
Penny is excellent at weaving together seemingly unrelated story threads to create something far more complex and clever.If you haven't read an Inspector Gamache book, I highly recommend them.
