https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161852-the-fifth-season
The civilization that we meet in this book, the Sanze Empire, has survived for centuries by harnessing the power of orogenes -- people born with an innate ability to control their environment.
The orogenes are held in contempt and called "roggas" by ordinary humans.
Despite all their power, they cannot control their own lives.
I can't say much about the plot without giving away some of the wonderful surprises, but if you want to read about a truly dystopian world that holds a mirror to the darkest of human motivations, this novel will haunt you long after you finish it.
Let this world be inhabited by people who believe the Earth hates them, who value survival above all else, and have organized their society around making sure some of them will make it through the years of darkness, and famine, and poisonous air and water that follow such geologic disasters.
She makes the other sentient race truly alien, as a different sentience should be, lest you end up with just stranger looking humans.
And yet, as you read, you get the feeling that this could be our world with some magic and some mythical creatures mixed in.
O.M.G.Post-apocalyptic mixed with Fantasy? My two favorite genre? Hell yes! This was such a good read! The writing does take some time to get used to (one section the narration is told at the second person for example!) but I didn't find it slow and found myself immersed into it very quickly but more time was clearly put into it than the average Fantasy so it might be why it can take a bit more time to get used to it!Totally recommend it and I'm planning on reading the whole trilogy pretty much back to back!
This story is set in a world called the Stillness, where earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other terrible things impacting the earth are constantly happening, but there are people who are able to manipulate the earth to ease them.
If a orogene isn't killed by their community before they are turned in, they are taken to a training school called the Fulcrum where they are deemed worthy enough to train Everyone in the Stillness is trying to survive the world's unforgiving environment.
There were a few things I didnt like but overall it was pretty amaze balls!
This world Jemisin created is like nothing I have read before.
At first I was afraid I wasn't going to understand anything in the book but to my surprise my little brain cells pretty much understood the whole thing.
It seems like everyone and their cousin has read this book so I'm not going to write an in depth review, you can go read all of the wonderful ones out there.
In closing, if you have been putting off reading this book, don't put it off any longer!
I can literally use the word “fuck” to display every emotion I have about this book. Like, I swear if I were a thousand years old and had already seen everything there is to see seven times over, the plot twists in this book would still have been about the last goddamn thing I’d have ever expected.Absolutely brilliant.
4.5/5 StarsI will not start my review for this book with some praises. Don’t get me wrong, this is an amazing book (oh shit I just did), but I’d like to start this review instead by saying patience is virtue is apt here.  “For all those that have to fight for the respect that everyone else is given without question.”  This book and my review will be dedicated to all of you.The Fifth Season, the first book in the Broken Earth trilogy is, in my opinion, a book that will truly require some patience
This book and my review will be dedicated to all of you.The Fifth Season, the first book in the Broken Earth trilogy is, in my opinion, a book that will truly require some patience for you to read.
I think of the plot of this book as an intricate story that gets better and easier to read the more you progressed, just like how assembling jigsaw puzzle started overwhelming but gets easier and more addictive the more you progressed.Jemisin has also done a stellar job in her characterization.
:) :) :) :) Was there any doubt?Old Review (from a few hours ago):Re-Read 8/20/16, the day the Hugo Awards Ceremony is to take place for the novel I voted for.
The question is: What the hell is the lace up to?Jemisin is fantastic for mythology and mythology building, but what is best about this book is the sense of long history and cycles and the deep feeling like it is all headed somewhere huge.
You did something Big. Thank you!Update 4/27/16And so now we learn that this novel has been nominated for both the 2016 Hugo and the Nebula!By my review above, I'm pretty certain I've expressed how much I love this book, and that has not changed one bit.
—for all those who have to fight for the respect others are given without question. From reading  this dedication,  I knew this would be a special book, and I was... right.Uh, okay, I feel like the fact that this series won a Hugo award [two, actually - and it’ll probably win a third] does show some degree of quality. But that won’t stop me from getting into the details of why this book works so well!! First of all, the writing is fucking gorgeous, but doesn’t take itself too seriously - there’
I… love the writing of this book.
There are three povs within this book, and I love all of them.
I was just thinking this recently after reading This Savage Song, but it bears repeating: a book using a enemies-to-besties friendship as its key dynamic is everything I have ever wanted and I am blessed.
I want to read 300000000 pages of them being deep-level best friends with a romantically-overtoned but still deeply platonic bond.
But I think what really, really makes this book work, on a deep level, is the thematic core.
4.5 stars.  What you know for sure is that you're not a child. You don't want to know what would happen if you were (this world is nasty). But you walk. Restlessly, you walk. At this point you're not sure it means something. You go on, though, because you're intrigued. Orogene, guardian, pirate, commless, you're part of the humanity anyway (they don't think you are). You're no stranger to rules (death awaits if you are) yet life destroys them at times (this is the way the world ends, again). So
What you know for sure is that you're not a child.
You don't want to know what would happen if you were (this world is nasty).
But you walk.
Restlessly, you walk.
Orogene, guardian, pirate, commless, you're part of the humanity anyway (they don't think you are).
You're no stranger to rules (death awaits if you are) yet life destroys them at times (this is the way the world ends, again).
(Friends do not exist.
Orogenes are not people.
You're not sure how it happened but you laugh.
"But this is the way the world ends.
In this way Jemisin uses her impressively intricate narrative to also explore themes of individuality and the One versus the Many.
This allegory is especially noteworthy in our post 9/11 world where powerful individuals can affect change as much or more than a sovereign nation.
Really don’t see that much.Jemisin’s intricate use of tectonically powerful super humans, shunned by the rest of mankind, is also a fitting and resonant metaphor for our own responsibilities to our faltering world.
It's also obvious, from nearly page 1, that in a world that is as geologically unstable as this one is, one prone to periodic apocalyptic eruptions that cause years-long, civilization-destroying winters (the 'fifth seasons' of the title), that the orogenes could be the key to survival itself.Essun knows that it was her husband, the boy's father, who killed him.
She also knows that the boy's abilities came from her - she also is an orogene.
More!My one slight criticism of the book (and this is me as a non-parent) is there there is quite a lot of dead-child-as-motivation.
A beautiful haunting tale told in the way that I love, with little regard for the linear illusion of time. And the voices, oh the three voices.
Oh yes, when I tried to read the first installment of "The Broken Earth", I just failed to finish it and ended up throwing the bastard on the barbie along with some shrimps and prawns...
I know I should be talking about "The Fifth Season" but, I'll tell you what?
Noosa Heads "The Fifth Season" won the Hugo for best novel.And I'm like...
I gave it a go a few months ago because of the hype and the praise, and 50 pages in or so, I was this close to tossing the bastard on the barbie and calling it all the known names on earth.
☠ DNF at 38%. Please someone give me a medal.The gif is strong is this one. Consider your little barnacled selves warned.This was such a delightful read.Just kidding. Bloody stinking fish, this was painful as shrimp. 99,99999% of you People of Despicable Book Taste (PoDBT™) thought this was deliriously mind-blowing and scrumptiously original and fantabuliciously well written and all that crap, which can mean only one thing:   you   I read the book terribly wrong. Strange. That has rarely ever ha
So everybody and their shrimp seem to think Jemisin's writing is beautiful and masterful and innovative and unique and original and please somebody kill me now because stuff like this: 
Not to be contrary or anything (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)], but I happen to think Jemisin's writing is gimmicky as fish and disembodied and stilted and flat and unemotional and forced and impersonal and disconnected and tries so hard to be edgy and cool and clever and hip that it ends up making you me feel like you're I'm reading a bloody Creative Writing 101 essay and damn this has to be the most exasperating, tedious, lackluster, fabricated, irritating, dull thing I have read in a bloody shrimping long time and it reminds me of Red Rising which very logically makes me want to shudder to death and this sentence seems to be over now so you might resume breathing and stuff.
Jemisin's world-building exists side by side with a world teetering on the brink of destruction.
Natural disasters such as earthquakes and volcanoes have wreaked havoc on the Stillness, the super continent and only land mass of this world.
The powers (magical abilities) of Orogenes are refined in specific schools and attuned to these natural disasters.
They might not be able to prevent the world from ending.
(Or maybe they can?) Still, in a society with radically different customs, beliefs and social structures, Jemisin's characters (specifically her strong heroines) stand out and make this a truly enjoyable read!
There was that cryptic prologue, with its smattering of information about the world (then right away saying that none of these places or people I just read about actually matter – wait, what?) as well as the curious narrative style, including one character whose chapters were written entirely in the second person.
While this is my first Jemisin novel, years ago I actually started to read A Hundred Thousand Kingdoms around the time it came out, but for whatever reason I put it down and didn’t get a chance to pick it up again.
Sale Alert: Amazon Daily Deal 03Oct18 $2.994.5 Dystopianesk Fantasy Stars  “When we say “the world has ended,” it’s usually a lie, because the planet is just fine. But this is the way the world ends. This is the way the world ends. This is the way the world ends. For the last time.”   This was pretty different. It there is such a thing as dystopian fantasy then this is that. Not only are you on a world where there are the regular humans and lands and society. But there are also people whose magi
It was interesting to see the story from the different perspectives; a girl just discovered to have power, a woman in the Fulcrum trying to achieve an upper place in that society and a woman hiding her power and trying to live a normal life.
The story of the woman in hiding just trying to live a normal life was probably my second favorite PoV because when the end of the world comes and she sets off from the community she has been hiding in for years she picks up a very interesting traveling companion.
Updated 8/23/16 Even better second time around. I think it deserves a bump up to 5 stars. It took me a few chapters to get into the story, but once I did, it was a smooth, fun ride. Awesome mythology. The polyamory scenario wasn't bad either.
So clever.I've been on a reading binge of mostly sci-fi/fantasy fusion and let me tell you, this book will rock your world. Hats off to Ms Jemisin. In all honesty I can't fathom how the idea and execution for this series could have originated from someone's brain.A must read for lovers of sci-fi fantasy!
This is by far the best book I've read all year. I don't even have words right now
So I start the book and after chapter one I'm thinking Holy Crap how is this getting such a great rating?
Chapter two was a different character perspective.
That is a chapter where you have to be soulless not to bleed from the perspective of this character.
You have to give this book those three chapters to make your decision and it is a bold one by the author.
At first it read like I was getting directions, you take a left and then you pull into the parking lot, but once I got over it I can only say it was brilliant.
I took a few pages for me to be okay with Jemisin's writing style because I'm not used to book-language sounding so much like speaking-language.
Each of the characters (view spoiler)[(experiences of the same character) (hide spoiler)] were fascinating and enjoyable to spend time with.It also took (more than) a few pages for me to get a real sense of this world.
I'm still not entirely certain I found that frame of reference but there was enough explanation to satisfy me and I guess (view spoiler)[since the world is over, it doesn't really matter anymore, right?
this book is spectacular. smart, clever, well crafted, well timed, full of great characters and great scenes. I love fantasy but it lets me down a lot. Sometimes I feel it's the same plot rehashed, over and over. The Fifth Season is unlike anything else I have ever read. No wonder it's so popular, and N.K Jemisin won not one, not two, but THREE Hugo awards for this trilogy.  But this is the way the world ends. This is the way the world ends. This is the way the world ends. For the last time.”  A
At the beginning of this book, the end of the world is starting, but this apocalypse is looking to be a lot worse then the previous ones.From here we follow three main characters: Essun, a woman who’s son has been murdered by her husband, and is now trying to find him and her missing daughter.
One thing I loved about the plot of this book was the subversion of the typical magic user trope.
It was interesting how Jemisin constructed this power relationship and for me was one of the most intriguing parts of the plot/world.I genuinely think N.K Jemisin has come up with such an innovative and unique plot line, and this made my appreciation for this book grow a lot.
I read a lot of fantasy and obviously love that genre immensely - still, I don't usually give fantasy books five stars but this one definitely deserves every single one of those stars because it is pretty stinking fantastic.The world N.
But the biggest strength of this work is that this political core does not diminish the greatness of the storytelling, Jemisin does not sacrifice her story in favour of the message and the balance she strikes is impressive.The book follows three narratives and all three of them were brilliantly done.
The Fifth Season is one of these books.
There is nothing ordinary in the Fifth Season: neither the way it is told, nor the story it treasures.
I do not think I can talk about this novel as if it is a normal book and analyse the usual elements.
There is more to come and I cannot wait to read The Obelisk Gate.PS If you liked the Broken Earth Trilogy, please give City of Bones a try; this is the book that Jemisin took many inspirations for Stillness from.--My review of The Obelisk Gate.I am dying to read The Stone Sky.
School book! Honestly almost close to a 4.5 for me! I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would, and I’m even considering picking up the next one....hmmm🙈
4 Stars for The Fifth Season  "This is the way the world ends....
The Fifth Season follows three women - Essun, Syenite and Damaya.
The characters in this story, even the secondary ones, were engrossing and all add to the overall plot and pace of the story.
Seismic activity is a constant threat to humankind and it truly brings meaning to the saying "survival of the fittest" with its end-of-the world effects.
Humankind survives these devastating "seasons" with the help of the oregenes like Essun, Syenite and Damaya, yet they are despised, feared and are actually slaves.
I have a list in my head of the people dead or alive that I would like to have at my dream dinner party (other guests include Octavia Butler and Samuel Delany) and N.K. Jemisin is for sure on the list now.
I cannot WAIT to read the next book.–Casey Stepaniukfrom The Best Books We Read In May 2017: https://bookriot.com/2017/06/02/riot-...
And now I have a few questions: What kind of moron would wait to read this book?
What kind of moron, indeed.–Derek Attigfrom The Best Books We Read In September 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/03/riot-r...
4.5 stars.Brilliant, wildly imaginative and truly unique, it came as no surprise that N.K. Jemisin’s Broken Earth trilogy was an award-winning one.
There is the usual third-person perspective for two characters, Damaya and Syenite, but not before one gets thrown off kilter by the rarely seen second person POV for Essun, which came right after the Prologue that was written as the first-person narrator.
The manner in which the stories of Damaya, Syenite and Essun come together can only be described as brilliant.
