https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/923614.The_Black_Star_Passes
It meant the brightest group of teen-agers, youngsters who were willing to play with ideas and understandings of physics and chemistry and astronomy that most of their contemporaries considered "too hard work."I grew up with that group; the stories I wrote over the years, and, later, the stories I bought for Astounding Science Fiction changed and grew more mature too.
Astounding Science Fiction today has many of the audience that read those early stories; they're not high school and college students any more, of course, but professional engineers, technologists and researchers now.
Heinlein, A.E. van Vogt and many others, thereby ushering in science fiction's "Golden Age." It had been a good 35 years since my last underwhelming Campbell dose, and so, figuring that the time was right to give him another chance (as a writer, that is), I picked up the volume entitled "The Black Star Passes." Originally released in hardcover in 1953, the three linked novellas in the book first appeared in 1930 (when Campbell was only 20) in the original science fiction pulp magazine, Hugo Gernsback's "Amazing Stories." And it would seem that my memory of more than three decades past was not in error; these tales are decidedly dry, crudely written and creaky...but still, somehow, compelling, and surely of historical interest today.In the first novella, "Piracy Preferred," which takes place in either 2116 or 2126 (depending on which of my Ace paperback's typos is to be disbelieved), a supercriminal has invented an invincible knockout gas as well as the secret of invisibility, with which he commences to steal from the aircraft of Transcontinental Airways while they are in mid-flight!
Great classic science fiction novel. I fully enjoyed reading it. Highly suggested for those of you who like reading this type of literature
Campbell has no characters, just mouthpieces to explain how the machines work.
He has some interesting ideas, but he doesn't know which ideas those are and spends all his time on the wrong ones.
For example: in the midst of a first contact situation on Venus, surrounded by an alien city on an alien planet, Campbell spends - I kid you not - three pages explaining how the Venusian elevator works.
The stories do get progressively better, but Campbell never gets over his "machines are more interesting than people" fetish and the stories don't get good enough to warrant spending any time on them.
Arcot, Morey and Wade discover there IS life on other planets, and with it comes terrible and amazing new technology that will help them save their own planet and eventually the solar system from threat of destruction!Science fiction as a genre is relatively young, compared to what is available on the bookshelves today.
But older SF is sometimes even more interesting a read than modern SF because of its lack of technology.
I'm an English major, not a physics professor, after all.I really enjoyed the humor at the beginning of the book, and the sky pirate's (Wade) storyline, but it kind of waned from there.
I didn't want another dnf book, but when I found myself being frequently reluctant to read this, I decided there wasn't much point continuing.
The plot is fairly good, and would probably appeal to hard science fiction fans.
And honestly, I grew sick of such an intensely male dominated book.
Apparently the world of 2017 is without the female sex.
Aside from a comment about a "mere woman" not being suitable to christen their ship, and the mention of alien women in a crowd, females do not exist.
I'm used to male dominance in classic sci fi, but sometimes it gets to me.
Some interesting ideas, but overly technical. This was a hard one to listen to without zoning out. Initially I would rewind the audiobook a little, but I got to the point where it didn't matter because the jargon was simply not captivating. Too much detail on the workings of machines and not enough story or character development.
I really wanted to like this anthology of three short works, because I read JWC as a kid, and remember adoring The Islands of Space so much, I still have the ancient paperback.
Sad to say, this work is rather a mess of vastly overblown pseudo-tech and undeveloped characters.
Hmm. The other problem of characterization the stories have is that women do.
Which of course makes you and me (nudge, wink) guess that Arcot, Morey, Fuller and Wade are gay, and outside of working hours are quite happy with their own company.
No women work with/for them.
It meant the brightest group of teen-agers, youngsters who were willing to play with ideas and understandings of physics and chemistry and astronomy that most of their contemporaries considered “too hard work.”I grew up with that group; the stories I wrote over the years, and, later, the stories I bought for Astounding Science Fiction changed and grew more mature too.
They've got a fine flavor of our own younger enthusiasm.For new readers of science-fiction—these have the stuff that laid the groundwork of today's work, they're the stories that were meant for young imaginations, for people who wanted to think about the world they had to build in the years to come.Along about sixteen to nineteen, a young man has to decide what is, for him, the Job That Needs Doing—and get ready to get in and pitch.
I have never read a science fiction book which is so heavy on the science. If this is what the majority of early science fiction was like, it's no wonder that so many people chose to enter the science and engineering fields after reading it. The book and the science is dated, but it's still a fascinating read, and the science picks up when the story lags and vice versa.
Classic A classic really good read of early SciFi. It is a good Space Opera from one of the masters. Take some time to go back when you first started reading science.
‘A sky pirate armed with weapons of his own invention…First contact with an alien race dangerous enough to threaten the safety of two planets…The arrival of a dark sun accompanied by marauders aimed at the very end of civilization in this Solar System…These are the three challenges resting the brilliant team of scientist-astronauts Arcot, Wade and Morey.
When Wade, the pirate, is captured he is cured of his kleptomania and joins Arcot and Morey in their labs.The boys then design a spaceship and head to Venus where they intervene in a war between the North and the South of the planet.
This novel is comprised of two novelettes and a novella that all tell a continuing story."Introduction"The introduction is Mr. Campbell reflecting on his work.
Give it a read if you care about the classic views on science fiction."Piracy Preferred"This novelette has the most interesting ideas in it.
Oh and the war at the end is not that exciting.The biggest flaw in all of these is that they are plotted like someone is trying to solve an equation.
WHich is a shame because there are some great ideas in here, but overall I wish I'd just read the first novelette.
I don't know if engineering scifi is something that exists, but if it does this is it. Campbell Jr. describes technological and chemical inventions in minute detail and leaves the actual adventure as a sort of sidenote. Some enjoyable moments though. My biggest problem was probably the narrator who was equally (un)enthusiastic about space battle and new parts for a space ship.
Genocidal Hero ScientistsThe heroes of these stories, Messrs Arcot, Morey and Wade, like science.
I mean they REALLY like science.
When they apply their latest formula to the construction of some new device meant only for killing on an industrial scale, not once do they pause to consider if they are doing the right thing.
In one scene they are literally stepping over the bodies of their latest thousand victims, and make no comment at all on the matter.They are emotionless ciphers.In the retrospective introduction, a slightly apologetic, perhaps embarrassed Campbell tries to justify these stories with the get out "You know...
John W Campbell Jr is, of course, a legend of the Golden Age of Science Fiction, but I’d never had an opportunity to read any of his stories until now.
Which might not be so bad if the science discussions/performance didn’t take up two thirds of the story.
But at a time when some people are calling for a return to this style of Golden Age SF, The Black Star Passes makes the case for why it’s a good thing the genre evolved.
My little brother is almost eight years younger.
As soon as he could walk he wanted to spend his time with me.
When he was little this was easy enough.
In the summer of '66, Fin was seven.
I'd gone off with a lawn chair to read Campbell's Black Star collection on the ridge past "the burn place" near grandmother Lajla's cottage.
Fin had followed and refused to leave.
Surrendering to his entreaties, I started to build a path from where we burned our garbage to the ridge running parallel to Lake Michigan.
Fin labored mightily.
I read the book.
John W.
Campbell one of the main figures in the golden age of science fiction as an editor, but could he practice what he preached.
Err, no.
Certainly it seems dated now, not the technology, but the writing style, the simplistic way everything seems to be build and some of the different names of things which today we have established names.
However I am reading it when totalling different things are expected in a good science fiction book.Overall not very enjoyable and I'll probably leave the other two books for a while, if I read them at all.
I quite enjoyed the stories in the first two installments in this volume, and felt primed to enjoy the story of the third.
The beginning premise of the third installment was intriguing, but I was utterly turned off by the portrayal of war and genocide as the default option.
Out and out war as the only conflict almost equates to no actual conflict.All of the stories bogged down for me when the author delved into highly detailed explanations of the chemistry and physics involved, but only because I REALLY had NO idea what he was talking about, and he seemed to assume, not only a base knowledge, but a Bachelor's degree knowledge of the subjects on the reader's part.
I had high hopes for this book, but, sadly, I was disappointed. The main thing that made this such a difficult read was the dialogue/monologues. This was basically a sort-of indirect guide to creating cool stuff. It focused WAAAAYYY too much on information that surrounded engineering, so the constant "science and engineering" talk became nearly insurmountable. The stories really didn't focus much on the main issues at hand in the plots, and they almost became short textbooks on physics and building advanced technology.
BAD no TERRIBLE science and a writing style that is jarring to say the least.This is supposed to be a classic of the genre so I plodded through the entire book. I was hoping that the book would improve as the story progressed, but except for long winded descriptions of machines and circuits there was nothing in the book. This despite the fact that there are two intelligent alien life forms and cultures that could have been explored Can't say it was worth the effort.
While sci-fi is meant to have fantastical ideas, they're also meant to be to some extent believable, and a lot of this, particularly the environmental and social areas, which should really be the most identifiable parts of the story. While the story is old, and to some extent dated, you couldn't really lose yourself in it, because of the jarring unbelievable parts.
I read this book because I was curious about John W Campbell. Is this the way Sci-Fi authors wrote in 1930? It's very much like a documentary or history book. No emotion at all. The story didn't grip me at all.
Very old fashioned SF. There's a lot of technobabble and the characters are generally given short srift. That would have been OK if the story had been better, but I didn't think the action was all that well done. Some of Campbell's short stories are much better.
Quite interesting for an old one.
The Black Star Passes by John W. Campbell (2000)
4
One of the best space operas ever (for the time).
2.5 stars from Sandy: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
John Campbell in his salad days. He was a much better editor than writer, even later on, but this one is ... turgid and scientifically very silly, and sociologically very sillier.
