https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74775.A_Falcon_Flies
Smith throws a little of everything into the storyline: there's seafaring, and pitched battles between ships; there's hunting, and nature; there's exploration, and the slave trade; there's romance with more than a touch of Mills and Boon to it; there's history, and one man's burning passion for a lost city.In fact, there's so much going on that the book rarely has time to slow down, although the return of some unnecessary elephant hunting marks my least favourite aspect of the novel (I thought Smith put that behind him long ago).
Robyn Ballantyne is a missionary like her father, but also has a medical background, both areas of education she wishes to bring to the African people.
While on their voyage, the Ballantynes learn that their captain is key in the slave trade and will stop at nothing to continue this prosperous form of economic advancement.
As Smith forks the story, both siblings begin their own adventures searching for Fuller Ballantyne and discovering the riches that Africa has to offer them.
Fuller's discovery opens new pathways as Smith educates and entertains the reader in the first novel of the series.

Bettie's Books
This is a reread for me. This time around I found it to be long and drawn out. Not nearly as interesting and enjoyable as the first time around 15 years or so ago. As historical fiction goes, Smith does a good job telling of early Africa and the exploration and exploitation of the continent. First of his Ballantyne series.
Having taken place in Africa in some of the places we lived and visited, I enjoyed that part of the book immensely.
But when I finished it, I was dissatisfied because I felt no sympathy for either the hero or the heroine.
The heroine, while very headstrong and accomplished, was entirely too self righteous for me to like her.
The only person I liked was the captain and he was a slaver.
Call me soft and sentimental, but I like a book with sympathetic heroes that I can root for and a happily ever after ending.
This was the second Ballantyne novel I read, although its first in the series.
It steps back several generations to trace the originations of the Ballantyne family's fascination with Africa.
Robyn Ballantyne's place as a strong female character, a doctor when that was unheard of and willing to fight to the death.
The details of the operation of a slave ship and the slave trade.
The contrast between Zouga Ballantyne and his sister Robyn in how the deal with finding their father, long thought lost to the dark continent, only to witness his last days.
Powerful, details, engrossing stuff.
I have read other stuff from this author.
'River Gods' was great, the 'Seventh Scroll' was good, the other two books in that series was whack-a-doo!
I had read a later book in this series that was not too bad, and thought I should start at the beginning.Started out OK, then suddenly turned into a cheap romance novel!
One star is reserved for books I simply could not finish!
This author shows moments of brilliance, and is not a bad writer, but is inconsistent.
When I read historical fiction I do not want a romance novel, or an occult novel.
Wilbur Addison Smith is the best known author on stories based in Africa. All his books are based on some country of the mystic African continent! It has lot to do with his birth place which is Zambia also in Africa! This book is based on the slave trade which was flourishing in 18th century in entire Africa and I must say that it has been researched really well. I can definitely connect with his writing after spending 2 years in Africa...a real good read.
I tried this book out because I heard it was good historical fiction. At about 100 hundred pages in, one of the main characters attempts to murder a man......only to end up sleeping with him because male magnetism is more than she can resist. SERIOUSLY?! Who thinks of this crap? After this happened in the book, I couldn't bring myself to read more.
In another Smith serious that follows the "Ballantyne" Family... They go to Africa... and they start a life trying to make money from diamonds/gold... by exploiting the locals... but it's pretty historical (though fictional) it includes Cecil Rhodes the man(as in Rhodesia)... The whole series is good... i have one more to read in the series...
Really enjoyed getting back to 19th Century Africa with the first of the Ballantyne novels. A mixture of hunting elephants (again), missionary work, the slave trade, imperial ambition and passionate affairs (by the female missionary no less). Looking forward to reading on from the various story lines established in part one!
Not one of my favourites, but still pretty good.
Excellent book.
interesting history of the slave trade between africa and america, and the efforts of the european countries, especially the british, to end the slave trade.
This is a great beginning to the Ballantyne Series, action packed with some really interesting characters introduced.
Wonderfully interesting.
Really paints a picture
Didn't like the ending, but since it is by Wilbur smith, it was of course, as usual, amazing
It had been many years since I last read one of his books, but in the past few months have found myself exploring them once more.
Wilbur Smith is one of my mother’s favourite authors, and as she has been in and out of hospital over the past 6 months, I had given her a Kindle so she would have something to read while she was in there.
It has been a great bonding experience for us, and I have enjoyed revisiting Mr. Smith’s work.A Falcon Flies is the first book in the Ballantyne Series by Wilbur Smith.
Horrible.
Instead of character development, we simply have a series of character tropes.
The heroine is simply a male fantasized version of some female adventurer out of a Danielle Steele novel.
The heroine's interests are the typical friend-zone good guy and bad boy with lots of "animal magnetism".
Everyone's motivations throughout are like, "Wait...
what?" This novel felt like someone who is used to writing mindless ya thrillers (that are highly touted one week and find themselves on the clearance rack the next) tried their hand at some R rated historical fiction.
This book was super interesting and was a hard read.
It was very intriguing and required critical thinking and reading skills.
Something I loved about this book is it can be read on it's own, or it can be read with the other books in the Ballantyne series.
I really loved that Robyn, a woman, was a strong heroine and very predominant in the book.
I think it is notable because the book is based in the 1860's, when women had less rights.
I would definitely recommend this book to adults and young adults.
Reason being is that the book has some mature subjects and it is a very hard read.
Excellent story. I love these types of books about family saga. I like it even more when it involves historical fiction. I already the second and third book so I'll keep reading about Zouga and Robyn. Thanks for this great book.
Fantastic book for the first in the Ballantyne series! A lot going on from start to finish and never a dull moment! Few things I would have liked closure on (although I think it was made clear) however I would recommend as a good stand alone book from Wilbur Smith
Good historical fiction about the history of Africa. Part of a trilogy. Wilbur Smith has written a lot of books that take place in Africa. Some call him the Michener of AFrica.
Stupid sex scene in first 50 pages. Didn't finish. Didn't know it was (at least part) crappy romance novel.
Loved the Elephant Hunter........
'Africa crouched low on the horizon' and Wilbur had me hooked for life with this first sentence. I've read all his books since and still enjoy them as soon as they're published.
Several typos slipped through, but the interwoven stories still shone through regardless. A fascinating read about seafaring, "untamed" Africa, and the inherent differences between men and women.
Good ' howeverMr Smith is an excellent writer however this series is overly wordy. So much so one tends to skip sentences and even paragraphs to get through the chapters.
