https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125190.Swallows_and_Amazons
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Swallows and Amazons, despite it being a popular old-fashioned children's book that almost every adult in England would have read, has never been on my radar and I don't think I'd ever even heard of it before.
I imagine it's because some people think that Titty would make me laugh (there was a titter, but I am English).There's not a lot I can really say about this book, despite nearly giving it five stars.
The flow of the book was almost perfect and we went from one day on Wild Cat Island with the children to the next with ease.
The age when simple tools (or perhaps ridiculously impractical tools) like that are exciting is the age that this book was written for.It is a wholesome story of children having boat related adventures in the English Lake District in the circa 1930.
It's the sort of book that just doesn't seem to get published today.Four young siblings ask permission to camp out on an island in a lake during their summer vacation.
(OK, except for the mother asking the absent (military) father's permission before giving her blessing to the expedition - but getting both parents' approval for a major undertaking isn't that unreasonable.)No, not every child has the luxury of having this kind of summer vacation...
The book doesn't even feel dated...
They sail around in boats and have jolly good fun. I am amazed how little I remember about this book, which I know I read when I was about nine. Some of the things I read then I can recall in fair detail, and for many others there are still key scenes or plot elements that stay sharp. This one: total blank. Sorry, Mr. Ransome. Maybe aliens have operated on my brain.
I wrote a review of this and it disappeared. It was a good review, too, nicely scathing about the tedium and the kids playing with matches and ending with a reference to Heart of Darkness as a metaphor for British colonialism.That it disappeared only solidifies in my mind the idea that it was the finest review I've ever written, or ever will write."Boring bloody slog" will have to serve.Library copy.
This is a superficially simple tale about four siblings spending a week camping on a small island.
They meet two local sisters and play pirates with them.
I'm sure if I had read it as a child myself I would have loved the concept.
The kids set up camp and we get a lot of useful information about boating.
However, as the days pass and the characters' personalities became more developed, I found myself really liking them and enjoying their immersion in their imaginations.
I particularly liked how well the kids get along, something siblings hardly ever seem to do in contemporary stories for children.
The book that truly made me fall in love with books. How I longed to be part of that little gang with freedom, boats, picnics, adventures etc.I vividly recall passing my 11+ exam (those of you of a certain age will understand) and my parents buying me a 'proper' typewriter. How I adored that machine! I used to sit at my 'desk' typing out great chunks of this book. No idea quite why I did so, but I can only assume it was bound up with my love for it.
Remember the first time I read this book, it was in reading class when I was about 10 years old...40 years ago!
I distinctly remember about thirty in the class, mixed boys and girls and how exited we were to have our turn to read a paragraph.
I remember the story was used a lot when I was in primary school.
We went to Botley camp in Somerset and there must of been 80 children from different schools and only 6 teachers to look after us.
We actually reenacted the story and dressed up, made bows and arrows, split into two huge groups and had sooooo!
My daughter Arwen always loved this book, and I found her a copy from 1939 this year for Christmas.
So of course I read it.It's among the most charming childrens' books I've ever read.
It has a marvelous blending of real life and imagination (and I'm sure it was an inspiration to CS Lewis for his Narnia books.
It's only when you think that the kids in the book would all be in their early 90s now that you realise those times aren't all that far away - there are people alive that will have grown up like this.
Camping out alone on an island alone, in charge of a sailing boat and being allowed to charge about pretending to be pirates...fantastic.This is a kid's book but lord knows how they're expected to get through 418 pages while keeping their attention span.
I don't know if kids these days would 'get' the language and terms of reference so in a way, Swallows & Amazons has almost become a book that is best read by adults.
Because of these books, Logan started taking wilderness awareness classes, got a pocket knife for his birthday, and basically began taking an interest in physical and outdoor things more.
We've listened to all of these books in the car and she's got a wonderful reading style and does amazing, but not over-the-top, accents.
This book has inspired him to want to learn some survival skills and maybe together, we could try "roughing it" in the approved Swallows and Amazons way.That's something I really like about these books.
He makes a tale of adventure a handbook to adventure." Yep, this series is like a guide book on camping and sailing.
I grew up reading Enid Blyton -- The Famous Five, The Various Happenings of Adventure, the boarding school stories (like Hogwarts without the magic) -- I loved the hearty, rosy-cheeked English children with their pluck and their tinned pineapple and potted meat sandwiches.
There was usually an amusing talking parrot and/or foreigner too.
I never read Arthur Ransome until a few years ago, but gosh would I have loved it back then.
The Swallows and Amazons books are like Enid Blyton's adventures written by a much better writer, starring funnier kids, with parents that aren't appallingly neglectful.
Better drowned than duffers; if not duffers, won't drown...In this first book of the series, the Walker children's father gives permission for them to spend the summer camping out and sailing in the Lake District of England.
They expect to spend their time exploring, making maps, improving their sailing skills - and do not expect pirates or rivalry from others on the lake!I recently tried to read this aloud to my nephew.
I found that really did not work because there was too much nature and sailing, and that made it hard to share my affection for the book.
It's hard to comprehend now, when parents won't even let their kids play out in the front yard, that children at one time were allowed to roam free outdoors like this, sailing and camping and being resourceful, and letting their imaginations run wild. This a wonderful book that is too often forgotten and overlooked these days. Instead of buying marketing gimmicks like The Dangerous Book for Boys, do your kids a favor and let them read this.
She claims they're her favorite books (and to have unseated Harry Potter in that position is high praise from her indeed).I do think they take a special kid or an adult with the right frame of mind to enjoy.
The emphasize independence, friendship, imagination and kid adventure.
Sure, but not in the same way kids today are.We have looked for other books with a similar sense of adventure and imagination and have not found anything else quite like these books.
We've also looked for other books about kids and sailing and have not found any.
Se me atraganta la literatura juvenil actual. Soy de los primeros que no les hace clic la idea de que los muchachos que aprenden a leer hoy tengan que hacerlo –y emocionarse- entre una serie de distopías cutres y descafeinadas con protagonistas Mary Sues y triángulos amorosos bobos por un lado, o por el otro novelas hiperrealistas donde protagonistas infinitamente más sabios y sarcásticos que lo que su edad sugiere luchan contra todo tipo de estigmas sociales dignos de una novela naturalista. D
Su serie de doce libros de Las Andorinas y las Amazonas puso al distrito de los lagos (sí, el de Wordsworth) en el imaginario popular inglés como un lugar tranquilo y evocador, donde uno podía hacer su infancia.
La primera Historia de las Andorinas y las Amazonas presenta a los cuatro niños Walker y a las dos niñas Blackett en un inocente (y por un momento no tan inocente) verano idílico en uno de los lagos.
Arthur Ransome wrote a sweet book here of his adventures of a short summer vacation living on an island in a lake off the English coast as children.
I loved how his mother set it all up for the neighbors to keep watch on the kids without interfering.
It got me to thinking about a wonderful performance and talk about leading lights and the song Lead Kindly Light.This is one of those books that isn't intense reading, but is rather enjoyable, easy to follow, and sweet.Some quotes I enjoyed:"'We are going to land on a desert island, to look for pirate treasure-- the treasure the pirates took from Captain Flint.
The summer days of imagination and adventure are told here so matter-of-factly that nothing impresses or moves the reader.
Several times I was expecting something to happen and was disappointed, and the only time that a thing does happen was told in quite an anticlimactic fashion.
were blended right into the narrative, simply as the things kids do - or don't do and reap the consequences.
No didactism, no sermons, and the Walkers have the best parents ever.Perhaps actual kids, bringing fresher imaginations to the task, would enjoy and appreciate this book better.
Not so well known in the States, but a children's classic in Britain.John, Susan, Titty and Roger have gone to stay in the Lake country for the Summer with their mother while their father is away at sea.
When they discover an island on the lake, they beg their mother to allow them to camp on the island for the remainder of the Summer holidays.
So sailing out in the boat named "Swallow" they soon find that the island is not as uninhabited as they thought, someone has camped there before, and means to come back.
Who sails in the other boat the Amazon?
I read and re-read the series for years, and when we finally managed a visit to the Lake District, spent a lot of time exploring maps and lakes to find Wildcat Island and the rest of the places in the books.Now, revisiting it as an adult, I'm still delighted, enthralled, and impressed.
I'd forgotten enough of the plot details that I was genuinely interested to find out what happens next, but since I was now reading it with adult critical faculties, could appreciate some aspects even more (and to some extent appreciate my own 1970s childhood even more).The distinction between the children's real lives and fantasy lives is expressed beautifully, right from the start, as Roger tacks up the field to his mother.
They literally sail a boat to an island multiple times, and camp their on their own (of course, with occasional visits by the mother to check up on them.) They spend most of their time there on their own, fishing, cooking, playing a war-game or two, and doing something that a lot of adult hikers couldn't do.
Titty, one of her daughters, is watching the camp when the other kids set off to mock-fight the Amazons.
There's not enough play-fighting or conflict, but a lot of camping, sailing, and idyllic life.
I enjoyed this book a lot. It was fun to hear about the children's adventures, and how they captured the Amazons on the island.
This classic of English literature was read by most British children in the mid-twentieth century.
I liked the whimsical adventures of the children, though the nineteenth century style which favors description and character development amidst slowly unraveling plots was a little fatiguing for this busy contemporary mama.Bogged down with homeschooling responsibilities and distracted by other titles, Swallows & Amazons languished on my shelf, awaiting my return.
I read "Lord of the Flies" which referenced Swallows & Amazons as an inspiration for the young British boys cast upon an unknown desert island.
SWALLOWS AND AMAZONS is the fiirst book in a good, old-fashioned English juvenile series penned by Arthur Ransome and published in 193O.
Swallows is the name of a sailboat used by the Walker children (John, Susan, Titty, and Roger), the main characters who are spending the summer at a large lake with their mother and toddler sister Victoria while their naval seaman father is away.
Amazons is the name of the sailboat of two sisters Nancy (Ruth) and Peggy Blackett, who become friends with the Walkers.
#2016-aty-reading-challenge--week-12: a childhood classicSWALLOWS AND AMAZONS FOREVER!!Set in the Lake District of England in August, 1929, this timeless book of adventure features four children of the Walker family (John, Susan, Titty and Roger) who are given permission to sail to a small island and set up camp for a few days.
The four intrepid sailors sail off in the Swallow and do quite well with some help from the 'natives'--those who live on the mainland--and a few visits from mother.
But soon they are attacked by two other sailors from the ship The Amazon who claim the island is theirs!
I wish I'd found this book when I was a kid.
I would have loved it.
Instead I devoured Enid Blyton.
I'm hoping to get my son to read it.
He's already been through the Enid Blyton stage.
I think he'd like this tale of childhood adventure.
I loved the wholesomeness, of the story and the kids.
These are kids that are Competent.
It certainly is attractive to think that in the modern age of helicopter parenting that maybe childhoods like these still exist somewhere in the world.
I sure hope so.
It was interesting in reading this to see how much more responsibility and freedom were given children back in the 1920's.
I loved the children's imagination and adventurous spirits.
It was clever how the work was as much fun as the play - sometimes more so because of the reward of accomplishment.
For me I think the descriptions of how to do things got a bit long at times, but the finding their fun in the task at hand did make up for any lagging.
It's just a sweet, enjoyable book that would be grand to read to children...
especially if you can allow them to not only imagine but to engage and explore!
As a child these were my favourite books, I loved stories of adventure and my family holidayed in the English Lake District where these books are set so I knew the places they visited.Whilst on holiday I would imagine meeting the Swallows and Amazons on every lake.
At school my friends and I would play Swallows and Amazons.
My best friend Sarah and I, being the only ones who were truly obsessed by the books would take charge and we would, of course, be the Amazons.

Ah, being ill means all of these "currently reading" books are out of date. I love this whole series, and reading it was a revisit. I would recommend them to anyone. I read them with the Geeklet, generally, and they never disappoint: there is adventure, but we never have to be afraid of bad things happening (too much, anyway); there is tension, but happy resolution; there is challenge and facing the challenge. Characters who push themselves, who dream, who read classic books and envision themselves as the protagonists in their own story. So good!
