https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2426675.The_Four_Graces
"Life was like that, thought Liz. You drifted on for years and years --then, suddenly, everything happened at once and all the things that had seemed so stable dissolved and disintegrated before your eyes ...
The characters from the previous books are secondary characters and only footnotes in some cases.We see another glimpse of village life and perseverance during wartime.
We see life through the eyes of Liz, Sal and Tilly -- village wisdom and philosophy on life, relationships, new relationships and friendships, unwanted relatives.It's all told with much sincerity and a quiet humor.
I'm giving this five stars because this may be my new favorite comfort read.
I imagine re-reading this as soon as a few years smudge my memory of it.
It's easy, it's witty, it's English.
There's a vicar—Mr Grace.
English village pastoral.
The vicarage is a tight circle: The girls talked..., but their conversation veered to and fro in a manner which a stranger would have found bewildering in the extreme, but which the Graces found perfectly natural.Not much happens, but it's a joy to just sit and observe people.
If you like Little Women, you would enjoy The Four Graces.
I started to read this book, but alarm bells began ringing as the name "Abbott" was mentioned. I raced to Goodreads to see if this was part of the Miss Buncle series, and after doing a bit of digging, found out that it was #4. That information is not clearly stated, but if you go to the author page and look at the series, you'll see that it is listed.Since I have not yet read #3 (The Two Mrs. Abbotts), I'm putting this aside for now. (Darn it, I was really enjoying it!)UPDATE: March 31, 20153  s
I started to read this book, but alarm bells began ringing as the name "Abbott" was mentioned.
•	Neither of the Mrs. Abbotts appears in this book (but the younger IS referrenced).•	A man named Mr. Grace was very briefly mentioned in TTMA – I’m not exactly sure what he was, but I don’t think he was a pastor!
“Mr. Grace came out of the bar and asked if she were feeling poorly and suggested a small brandy or a glass of port.” - The Two Mrs. Abbotts•	The vicar’s name in TTMA was Mr. Dance, was married, and had a daughter named Marguerite.
The main characters are the Grace sisters, daughters of the vicar in Chevis Green.
Similar to Little Women, this story is about the daily lives of the four sisters during World War II as they work hard to keep their father comfortable, their home running smoothy and do their part for the war effort.
Their father is a bit absent-minded, but they love him terribly and don't want any more change to come to the vicarage.
In many ways it reminded me of a Lucy Maud Montgomery story with adult characters and also Little Women at times.
It would have been better if it was longer, I think, with more time developed to make the sisters stand out from each other a bit more.This book can stand on its own, though it has extremely incidental references to a couple of characters from The Two Mrs. Abbotts.
For one thing, a lodger comes to stay--an archaeologist of indeterminate age who is checking on some nearby Roman ruins.
It's domestic drama and humor in the midst of a bigger world drama, which just has to take a back seat.My favorite character is William Single, the archaeologist and lodger.
What a lovely book!
I've been a fan of the Mrs. Tim and Miss Buncle series for years but I've never had a chance to read any of her others until now.
This is the wonderful story of a widowed vicar living in rural WWII England with his three daughters.
(The fourth daughter is in London and doesn't figure in much.) It's about a fete and trouble over the church flowers, rationing, a designing Aunt from the city and young love.
A sweet tale that reminded me of Miss Read or Karon, it has certainly encouraged me to track down more of the author's stand-alone novels.
You feel great poignancy reading this knowing that Britain was fighting for the country that D.E. Stevenson was describing but that when they won, they lost it anyway through modernity and industrialization.
The country she describes is one where young women are free to work, love, and play.
As someone said, "It is Little Women meets World War II."As I read it, I had no idea women could work in so many careers.
After I had read it, I stumbled across an article from 1941 in the Guardian about how World War II in England was a greatest time for women's equality.
The vicar of Chevis Green is a widower with four daughters, each of whom is splendidly drawn by Stevenson with her own personality and challenges.
Addie is serving the war effort by living and working in London.
Liz is a "land girl", serving as a farm hand in place of a young man who has gone off to fight.
Sal and Tilly live at home, helping their father with his parish responsibilities.
Though a couple of the girls have love interests, this book cannot be classified as a romance.
The friendly conversations, the bravery through hardships, and the literate dialogue make this book a treat.
What can I say about this book?
This is the first book by this author that I've read and I'm hoping to collect the rest.
It's a book that has no great adventure, no mysteries and no great secrets yet it's a very good read.
Human nature is the thread running through the book.
The characters were wonderful.
The four sisters and their father were nice genuine people with out being boring.
Aunt Rona, while a very unlikable character was familiar.
I think we all have one of them in our families.A nice gentle read to while away the hours.
I do enjoy D.E. Stevenson books.
It's called the Four Graces, but it's really about 3 sisters as the 4th is out of town during much of the book.
The story takes place in an idyllic English village during WWII - but the focus is on the Grace family, not the war.
The story picks up where the last of the Buncle books left off.
As with the 3rd book - you don't need to have read the others to read this one.
You may want to hop back to the 3rd after reading this, however, as the story is alluded to briefly.
E. Stevenson?Of course it was a good book.
-_-The three of the four Grace girls (Liz, Sal and Tilly) are delightful in their own ways (feel the title is a little misleading as the fourth, Addie, is barely in the book) along with their father the kindly vicar.
But anyhow as all these books go theres happy endings all around, including mistaken and real romance, budding friendships and cute characters.A quote I liked from one of Mr. Grace's sermons:"The best way to plant happiness is to do at least one thing every day to make one person happier, and to do it for God."
This is the 4th book in the loosely connected series that started with Miss Buncle.
I have enjoyed all these books but this one really resonated with me for whatever reason.
I read several passages aloud to friends and went to look for my own copy on the used book market.
Alas, this seems to be one of the popular, expensive ones.
I did pick up a few others that were less expensive since I have liked Ms. Stevenson's writing so much.
I only hope that Sourcebooks picked up the rights to this one and will republish it soon as they have with Miss Buncle and Miss Buncle Married.
Make yourself a cup of tea, and settle down for a cozy English village read! A charming tale.
I loved this humorous romantic comedy with the four Grace sisters set in a small English town during World War II, so in addition to the usual romantic vicissitudes, the characters have to cope with rationing, blackouts, etc. I find this prolifIc author can be very uneven, but this is one of her best, and if you enjoyed Miss Buncle’s Book, you’ll probably love this one, too.
“But it wouldn’t be much good for a man to plan his garden, to say to himself, ‘It would be nice to have hollyhocks in that corner and lupins in front, and a trellis with sweet peas over there…and it would be a good idea to plant stock near the sitting room window so that we can smell their sweetness on a summer evening.’ No, he’s got to sow his seeds and water them.
Let’s plant happiness in our little patch; it has such a sweet smell on a summer evening.

Stevenson is an excellent writer and tells a pleasant story.
That's what THE FOUR GRACES is -- a pleasant story, with nothing too upsetting, a comfortable English setting and a HEA.
And for many rather obvious reasons (war time, four sisters, four very different personalities, one absent parent, the advent of suitors, etc.) I kept thinking of Alcott's LITTLE WOMEN.
Alcott created depth in someone like Jo March, with whom women have identified for generations.If you're on a D.E. Stevenson kick, as I've been recently, you'll read this anyway -- but there are better out there.
This book just begs to be re-issued by Persephone. Beautiful, beautiful story of four sisters in England during World War II. Very quiet, and yet very, very funny. One of my favorite lines: "even the best people have at least one bat in the belfry."Definitely recommended--and I'm keeping my eyes open for more Stevenson.
Les aventures sentimentales et familiales des 4 filles d'un vicaire, dans un petit village anglais. C'est, comme toujours avec D.E. Stevenson, plein de charme et de drôlerie (le personnage de la tante est tout particulièrement truculent !) et plus profond qu'il n'y paraît. Une lecture réjouissante.
This was just okay for me. I wasn't even sure how this book relates to the first three in the series. It is fun to read of times gone by when life seemed more simple, although I'm not sure it really way.
Posiblemente sea el más flojo de la serie de la Señorita Buncle aunque si te gustaron los anteriores seguramente pases un buen rato leyendo éste, sobre todo si te apetece una lectura rápida, agradable y ligera. La autora podría haberle sacado más jugo a la historia, sobre todo porque de las cuatro gracias principalmente se centra en dos.
I usually give higher stars to D.E. Stevenson books, and this one was enjoyable as usual, but the plot thickened and then thinned much too fast and I missed Barbara Buncle. She wasn't in it at all, even though its 4th in the Buncle series. It's still a pleasant book with engaging characters and a lovely English village setting.
Always a delight.
Stevenson ' s characters, as delightful as they are, are usually just portraits.
Barbara Buncle, for instance, lives a charmed life and one can't really imagine anything seriously going wrong in her life.
The only REAL person in that while series seemed to be the Dr's wife.
The novel was delightful and, as many others have said, had much in common with Little Women.
The strength was in the characters who were much more mature than some of her others but not quite as pity-full as in The Young Clementina.
Whilst I read many different genres, this type of lighthearted, romantic style of novel filled with social observation is really my favorite type of book to curl up with and forget about the world.
The Four Graces tells the story of four sisters, their parson father, and the village that they call home.
The family is very close, and although the four sisters are all quite different, they have a beautiful bond with one another and with their father.
The Four Graces is a charming novel!
The four Graces are four sisters with that surname.
It takes place in England during World War II, but the story-line rather reminds me of something between wars---graceful (of course) and mannerly.
The cover of the current reprint book I read shows four young ladies and a tiny black dog.
Unfortunately, I don't think they bothered to read the book, because the four sisters are shown in flapper costumes (from the 1920s) when the book is set in 1946, with one sister wearing a military uniform at work.
And there is no dog anywhere in the story.
Pretty cover, just absolutely no connection with the story.
What can the people of rural England do but respond with grace and humor?
The idea to keep calm and carry on comes from this period, and D E Stevenson lived it herself, trying to keep her own family together while her husband, a member of highland regiment, was often deployed.
People you would want as neighbors.
People you would want as friends.
Well, not Aunt Rona, but everyone else.From the gentle parish parson to his four daughters, we come to know and love them all as they cope with the violent changes in their lives occasioned by a madman's activities.
E' comunque carinissimo, anche se mi ha un po' infastidito il fatto che il romanzo contemporaneo The Misinterpretation of Tara Jupp di Eva Rice, letto un mese prima di questo, ha una struttura molto, molto simile.
Ovviamente la versione migliore è quella della Stevenson, sarebbe stato comunque meglio averla letta per prima.
Parla di quattro sorelle che vivono con il padre, prete, in una piccola parrocchia inglese durante la seconda guerra.
Il romanzo segue queste quattro ragazze, piuttosto diverse tra loro, le loro avventure, amorose e meno, sullo sfondo della vita di provincia.
While the main characters happen to live in the same town as Barbara Buncle/Abbott, I wouldn't consider this a fourth installment in the Barbara Buncle series.
She is not even mentioned once.
Only two people from the previous three books make a few brief appearances.
Honestly, this is easily my least favorite of the quartet.
Maybe it's just that I'm busy with the season, but I just was not drawn to the characters like I was in the first three books.
(Maybe I missed Barbara!
lol) I'm rating it 3.5 stars and rounding up just because I loved the first three!
The blurb states Little Women meets WWII. I'd say Stevenson is a 20th century shadow of Jane Austen. Her female characters are so delightful and whimsical and she captures village life in full. The four Grace sisters are anything but typical of their time and yet they're so much fun to meet and know it's no wonder so many people are attracted to them! This is a perfect curl up in a blanket with a cocoa, tea or coffee and wile away an afternoon book.
