https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18122.The_Amber_Spyglass
The Grand Evil Lady (who was so great in Northern Lights!) suddenly out of the blue starts loving Lyra.
He didn't show how Chuch uses religion to manipulate the consciences of people - we are treated only to Pullman's version of the Church, which is evil because the author told us it's evil.
There are many more questions about the angels (how did Baruch and Metatron became angels from men, but no one else did?) but Pullman never bothers with them.Then there is the separate tangent of dr Mary Mallone, a former nun who rejected the Church and all faith entirely because she ate some marzipan and kissed an Italian.
Couldn't Pullman throw me some surprises beyond How Damn Long He Took to Get Around To It?7: Easy ending, take 2: Let's see, Will and Lyra fight against God and All the Angels, against the pull of their own daemons, against not only all creation, but all of creation on multiple universes, they lose friends to bullets, explosions, souls ripped out, and a myriad other ways as legions of people die to either protect them personally, or what they stand for, the two of them travel to the freakin' Lands of the Dead in order to remain together, and they eventually get it on in all sorts of transcendant-garden-of-eden ways, restoring the entire multi-verse with the Glory of Their Hot Sweaty Action, and then....and then...and then an angel says, "Oh, you guys can't stay together, cuz a some bad stuff would happen then."And in ONE PAGE they say, "Jeepers, that's too bad.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: A sad but necessary ending; its exceptional last chapters may have seemed unconvincing if penned by a lesser writer.
My entire review could be this: Phillip Pullman's "The Amber Spyglass" is one of the poorest closing books of a trilogy ever written.
At one point, I actually stopped reading "The Amber Spyglass," put it down and vowed not to finish, but I wanted to be able to slag off the book with authority, so finishing became a must.
My wish went unfulfilled.Maddening, frustrating, and a great disappointment because of what it promised, China Mieville got it right when he made his list of 50 books every good Marxist should read and said, "in book three, 'The Amber Spyglass,' something goes wrong.
Did I know, he asked, that Pullman was actually in conversation with John Milton’s Paradise Lost as he wrote the series, which came to be called His Dark Materials (the title from Milton), particularly in The Amber Spyglass?
Since in many ways he is commenting on Christian/spiritual traditions as they are evident in literature, Pullman wants to be in conversation with people who have read John Milton’s Paradise Lost and/or C.
Instead of Christianity's idea of One All-Powerful God, Pullman flips that script to show us the limitation of that view through the specter of The Authority, who is frail, weak, sniveling, small-minded, associated with a bad group from the Church called The Magisterium who wants to control your minds and souls and bodies.
and in many ways, both the ability to lie and the ability to kill come back to haunt both children (particularly the latter) - they don't just get a free pass by the author.
and as i've mentioned, overall i found the novel to be deeply spiritual - pullman may be a curmudgeonly atheist; the morality of the book itself is not.- personally, i thought the Chronicles of Narnia (one of my favorite series) was far more overt in its religious teachings than Golden Compass was in its 'question what you have been taught' lessons.
I absolutely fell in love with Lyra.
Maybe it’s because I’m a girl or because my heart still remembers the depth of that first love.
Will was the boy every girl wants to fall in love with.
Sigh....I liked how Mrs. Coulter was deep enough to be both intrinsically evil and love Lyra with a blindly, maternal love in the end.
I liked little Roger’s complete faith and how Iorek’s devotion was tempered with a knowledge that was higher than either of the children’s.
I wish I would have read it slower so that I could have enjoyed Lyra and Will's company a little longer.
I think.- What else happened?- Well, I know I shouldn't have stayed up reading that physics book.
I think angels were dark matter?
That was a good thing though.- You're still not making any sense.- I know, I know!
We'll be so tired tomorrow.- I just want to write this down before I forget it.
I think I could turn it into a book.- Tomorrow, George.- Okay, it'll wait until the morning.
And you know what?- What?- I'm so glad we're in the same space-time continuum.- Oh George, that's the most romantic thing anyone's ever said to me!- Heh. I thought you'd like it.
“All the history of human life has been a struggle between wisdom and stupidity.”    “I stopped believing there was a power of good and a power of evil that were outside us. And I came to believe that good and evil are names for what people do, not for what they are.”     “I will love you forever; whatever happens. Till I die and after I die, and when I find my way out of the land of the dead, I’ll drift about forever, all my atoms, till I find you again… I’ll be looking for you, every moment,
“All the history of human life has been a struggle between wisdom and stupidity.”
“I stopped believing there was a power of good and a power of evil that were outside us.
And I came to believe that good and evil are names for what people do, not for what they are.” 
“I will love you forever; whatever happens.
Till I die and after I die, and when I find my way out of the land of the dead, I’ll drift about forever, all my atoms, till I find you again… I’ll be looking for you, every moment, every single moment.
I was horrified when I read it and truly disgusted with the unexpected direction the series took.
I did not want to read this one because I did not want my memories of the first book shattered completely.
It’s essentially one big book, one story.
Each book is not self-contained but needs to be read in sequence; they are not structured like individual books: the story keeps flowing to the last page.
It was not the ending this series needed.
He was in the last book, and his presence here helped pull the story up in my estimation.
I and several of my friends went and enjoyed ourselves.And then suddenly they closed the doors, turned off all the games, and a preacher got up and proceeded to try to "save" us.True, we had already gotten our money's worth, and we we could have gotten up and left (even though all of us wanted to but none of us had the nerve).
But then in the third book, Pullman closed the doors and turned off that great storytelling and I found myself sitting through a tedious sermon waiting for it to be over already.
The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, #3), Philip Pullman His Dark Materials is an epic trilogy of fantasy novels by Philip Pullman consisting of Northern Lights (1995, published as The Golden Compass in North America), The Subtle Knife (1997), and The Amber Spyglass (2000). It follows the coming of age of two children, Lyra Belacqua and Will Parry, as they wander through a series of parallel universes. عنوانها: نیروی اهریمنی اش کتاب سوم - دوربین کهربایی در دو جلد؛ نویسنده: فلیپ پولمن؛ تاریخ ن
The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, #3), Philip Pullman His Dark Materials is an epic trilogy of fantasy novels by Philip Pullman consisting of Northern Lights (1995, published as The Golden Compass in North America), The Subtle Knife (1997), and The Amber Spyglass (2000).
It follows the coming of age of two children, Lyra Belacqua and Will Parry, as they wander through a series of parallel universes.
ا. شربیانی
3.75 stars
Laughable to say the least.Understanding that this book was geared towards young teens, I still couldnt help but think that any teen who had not had these doubts or questions or wonderment about God should be tossed out in the snow.
In fact, there is only one atheist character in the book, Mary Malone and she felt and empetiness and a loss without her connection to God. I found her rejection of the Church odd.
Here, the Church clearly works for a corrupt and evil angel and considering little things like the Crusades and the Inquistion...not to mention the insane theocratic drive of our current President and candidate Huckabee...Pullman may have hit it on the head.
The reinterpretation of Milton by means of Blake by Pullman, His Dark Materials as anti-Narnia, and the trilogy as a profoundly religious work written by a non-believer.
The down side of this incredible openness and excitement about the universe and all its many varieties of Oxford is that that the series can be diffuse, some characters are much weaker than others despite having important roles to play in the story and more seriously it is hard to take the Authority and The Church seriously as antagonists when we see the heartless cruelty of chief rebel and Miltonic Satan Lord Asriel ultimately aided and abetted by the no less hideous and beautiful Mrs Coulter.
¿Conocen esa mezcla de felicidad y tristeza, ese dulceamargo, que solo los buenos libros pueden dejar? Que aunque pase el tiempo, los sigues recordando, y quisieras que la historia continuara, aunque sabes que se desarrollo justo como debía ser, así me hace sentir "La Materia Oscura"EL comienzo del final, la tan esperada guerra neoapocalíptica ha llegado, con sus terribles bandos, comandados por Lord Asriel y Metatron... la historia de la vida humana ha consistido en una lucha entre la sabiduría
Que aunque pase el tiempo, los sigues recordando, y quisieras que la historia continuara, aunque sabes que se desarrollo justo como debía ser, así me hace sentir "La Materia Oscura"EL comienzo del final, la tan esperada guerra neoapocalíptica ha llegado, con sus terribles bandos, comandados por Lord Asriel y Metatron...
Para mas de mis reseñas sobre los libros de La Materia Oscura pueden ver los siguientes enlaces:Luces del norte aquí La Daga aquí El Oxford de Lyra aquí
I’ve finally finished my reread of His Dark Materials before starting The Book of Dust. It is literally decades since I read it and all I could remember was that I loved it, and the mulefa. But of course there was so much more to it than that. And I cried my eyes out at the end.It also made me feel like I’d love to chat to Philip Pullman about his metaphysical beliefs and the meaning of life. Wonderful writing. Wonderful story.
Heartbreaking, cynical, beautiful, potentially life-changing.
This book was twisted. The plot was very contrived and the characters have lost the remaining appeal that they had in the first 2 books. The "redemption" of Mrs. Coulter and Lord Asriel is utterly unconvincing. Pullman makes an open mockery of God, whom he depicts as a weak, timid, helpless old being manipulated by a twisted, tryanicial angel. No, Lyra and Wil don't kill God in the end, but Pullman does. The story culminates in the predictable recreation of Adam and Eve's experience in the gard
Pullman is right that men have corrupted the truth, and this is manifest in many false teachings in religions today, but he is wrong in concluding that this is God's fault, or that the very idea of God is false, and that God himself is a corrupt invention of man.
Pullman is also right that human passions have wrongfully been suppressed by many religions.
True religion strikes the right balance between the full expression of human passion and approprate self restraint.
Finally, Pullman is also right about one thing in the Garden of Eden: it was a good thing, ultimately, that Adam and Eve partook of that fruit.
I have to say that reading this book was at times overwhelmingly painful and my main motivation for actually finishing it was to be able to know for myself that there was no redemptive ending (at least in my eyes) to be found.
Regardless of how someone may have responded to the anti-religious overtones, the shortfalls in how the characters developed, the simple resolution of problematic relationships between the characters, the disjointed storyline, the questionable timelines when trying to synchronize the disjointed stories, the shortcuts in solving problems, and my general lack of sympathy for any character exhausted me.
They didn’t really have to do much problem solving on their own-yeah they ‘experienced’ much but even then their motivations were generally self serving.
Nevertheless, no matter what was said and done by him and Mrs. Coulter in this book, they are simply irredeemable to me.But Pullman never makes it easy and so all of the characters have good and bad sides and most of the time the author even plays with our expectations and our definitions and turns them upside down to emphasize that neither any world nor any creature therein is black-or-white.The fact that while the battle has of course a gigantic scale, it’s not really about it (not only), was a wonderful notion as well.
OH MY GOODNESS!!! This cannot be a children's book, because I am not feeling child-sized feelings right now....my heart...oh my heart....This was SOOOO good, the entire trilogy, amazing! This book, however, was the best of the entire trilogy. HANDS DOWN!Wonderful, amazing, and so damn relevant. What an amazingly brave and thought provoking book....I'm gushing.....This book makes me gush.I can't wait for the new trilogy to come out...please find a way...(those who read it know what I'm talking about!)
A República do Céu As aventuras de Lyra e Will continuam a surpreender-nos por entre um rol de querelas mistícas entre bem e mal...Lyra cresce, amadurece, descobre o amor, e... apercebe-se da urgência em criar um mundo novo e melhor!Subscrevo ;)“Temos de ser todas aquelas coisas difíceis, como alegres e simpáticos, corajosos, destemidos e pacientes, e temos de estudar e pensar e trabalhar muito, todos nós, nos nossos diferentes mundos e então construiremos...”“— E depois?”“— Construiremos o quê?
A República do Céu As aventuras de Lyra e Will continuam a surpreender-nos por entre um rol de querelas mistícas entre bem e mal...Lyra cresce, amadurece, descobre o amor, e... apercebe-se da urgência em criar um mundo novo e melhor!Subscrevo ;)“Temos de ser todas aquelas coisas difíceis, como alegres e simpáticos, corajosos, destemidos e pacien­tes, e temos de estudar e pensar e trabalhar muito, todos nós, nos nossos diferentes mundos e então construiremos...”“— E depois?”“— Construiremos o quê?”“...a república do céu!”
Maybe she still had the hots for Asriel, maybe her maternal instinct kicked in 12 years too late, maybe she genuinely thought Lyra was a good kid...or maybe Pullman just needed to create a series where the main character's mother loved her and was willing to stretch the reader's suspension of disbelief as much as he needed to in order to get there.
This book, this 3rd and final volume, is an incredible conclusion to this outstanding series. It has left me drained. It has left me heartbroken. But it has also left me in awe. I have followed Lyra Belacqua Silvertongue every step of the way on her amazing quest, and I could do it all again right now. This book is deserving of all the praise and awards it has received. It truly is a masterpiece of fantasy literature. Well done Philip Pullman, well done.
While I don't believe the book is flawless, I felt a lot of reviewers took out their frustrations on Pullman's politics or his decision to twist the happy ending rather than on the storytelling itself.
Ultimately, I felt he wove these new lives in without ever losing the sense of Lyra and Will--who I think were even more smartly written and complex here than in either of the other two books.
While I loved Mrs. Coulter as a deliciously cruel villainess, I think his decisions with her character in this were both surprising and wonderfully done.
Everything I loved about the first book is completely gone, the author seems to have forgotten that he's telling a story rather than railing against organized religion almost non-stop, the characters seem to have been lobotomized, and it was just long, horribly boring, and extremely anti-climactic.
What started out as a very fun fantasy story with a great protagonist, truly menacing villains, and a highly inventive and interesting world became a pretentious, thinly strung together collection of lectures on the evils of organized religion held up on cue cards by stick figures that are sort of dressed like the characters in the first book.
(This fits within the scope of my review of the full series)Book three was just a mess.
It's almost nonsensical as it strives against reason and its own narrative to bring the story to some kind of resolution.
Though they do end up killing the Enoch from some world.
Things happen because in Pullman's mind they need to, not because it would make any sense for something to happen a certain way.It's hard to believe it but this book was worse actually than The Da Vinci Code.
At least that was merely stupid.
This was stupid, senseless, and (perhaps worst of all) boring.
- Possible spoilers - Fantastic ending to a brilliant trilogy, although I don't know how many times I have read these books this last one breaks my heart every time. Will and Lyra's relationship blossoms so well over the course of the three books and I'm almost tempted to stop reading before the end and try and trick myself into believing they lived happily ever after!
Lord Asriel and Mrs. Coulter, at best morally ambiguous in the previous books, have become good for unclear reasons.For all these narrative problems on the fringes, the central story involving Lyra and Will is strong.
The alethiometer frequently tells Lyra that things are right and wrong, not just true or false.Second, the relationship between god and the demonic element (The Authority) is exactly the same as it is in Christian accounts of Satan.
In both cases things can be set right by recognizing and rejecting the false claims of the demonic authority, a miraculous and unexpected intervention by the true god, and learning to love one another.
