https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114141.Sanctuary
Here are some of our descriptions of what Jo looks like:Tall & thinShort, red, curly hairBlue eyesPale skinLong feet (they made a point of this)Also, she smokes and wears baggy clothes.So, here's what I have in my head:Seriously, could we not make her sound even remotely attractive?Jo goes home to an island where her family runs a bed and breakfast inn.
It seemed like the right thing to do.) The problem is that none of these characters are all that likable except for the guy who loves the slutty sister.
With some books you have to take some time to digest it before you can talk about them, but with others the feelings come bursting out the second it's finished.
That's how I feel about this book.
It is so amazing!
There are strong characters, including the island, itself.
Sanctuary is an inn on a small island of the coast of the Carolinas.
The incomparable Nora has written an amazing stand alone novel!
The sex scenes are ridiculously hot and the murders are written with the horror she gives the 'In Death' books.
Excellent book!!
Ok. Fair enough- you don't expect a romance novel to change your life but this was just...bad.Your loving mother disappears in the night?
Don't worry about her- hate her!
She must have run off.
True, she never showed any signs of unhappiness or unfaithfulness, but you know women...
Your best friend disappears from a bonfire?
When you check her house, nothing is missing and it's clear she never came back from said party?
Pshaw!
No worries!
She's probably not dead- she must have met a man and run off with him.
Just like your mean mother.Oh!
4 stars - Dutch paperback - I have dyslexia - I read this book while laying in hospital. I was having my first child, Yasmine, and because of high bloodpresure needed bedrest. This novel took me to another world without thinking of the problems every time. Beautiful family saga with some mystery by anonymous sent photos. 🍀🌷🦋🌹
SummaryPhotographer Jo Ellen Hathaway thought she'd escaped the house called Sanctuary long ago.
She'd spent her loneliest years there, after the sudden, unexplained disappearance of her mother.
But Sanctuary may be the most dangerous place of all.My thoughtsThe disappearance of Annabelle Hathaway 20 years ago had a profound effect on her family.
The family is torn apart and has become strangers to each other.I liked the three stories of the Hathaway siblings and how they finally discover the truth about their mother’s disappearance and each find their own HEA.
Griff & Alexa (Lexie) definitely.
[image error]Lexi & Griff on the beach...........
This was slow and boring in comparison to some other Nora Roberts' novels. I also didn't feel any "bond" with the characters, and I didn't like how the story switched between different storylines and characters. I also didn't quite understand why the Hathaway family could so easily believe that the dissapearance of a loving wife and mother of three didn't have anything to do with some crime. They believed that she just walked out on them and resented her memory. That really didn't play right for me.I recommend Virtue Falls by Christina Dodd instead!
I really like this approach and the three romances in this book are just great.
When she pulls herself together she heads home to the family inn, Sanctuary, on the island of Desire off the Georgia coast.
In addition to Jo there is older brother Brian, younger sister Lexie, father Sam and second cousin Kate, who has basically held the family together since the disappearance of Annabelle.
Also returned to the island is Nathan, who was a pal of Brian's the summer Annabelle went missing.
Jo has her own problems and the family is such that heartfelt sharing and caring, well, is just doesn't happen.
She becomes haunted by them and hits her wall when she receives one that appears to be of her mother Annabelle, dead, and who disappeared 20 years ago.
Jo returns home to the house called Sanctuary, to restore herself and hopefully put her demons to rest.When Jo's mother disappeared, her father shut down and left the care of her, her older brother Brian and younger sister Lexy, to her Aunt Kate.
It also becomes apparent that the person stalking Jo has followed her to the island.I enjoyed this story but it took me about 100 pages to get interested.

Here's another longer NR book that tries to develop three different romances in the same book, and again, I'd rather she stuck to one per book. I feel like she didn't do the main romance justice.And there was just a little too much nastiness in this one, rapes and murders, and...*spoiler here**stop reading if you don't want to know whodunit.*... the really evil sociopaths were the father and brother of our hero. Didn't like that much.
What made this book go all the way down to 2 stars for me:1) So Nate KNOWS full well his dad raped and killed Jo's, Brian's and Lexi's mom and yet, the way he acts around them is so breezy and comfortable and he even starts (casually, at first) flirting with Jo. It's so unnatural and unrealistic!!
I found Nate's behaviour just baffling....And as for Jo, no matter HOW MUCH I had fallen in love with a guy, after I got to know that his dad killed my mom, I couldn't be with him.
3.5*  Great beginning, lots of suspense , but somewhere midway it fell flat! Didn't really convince me of the killer's motive! Couple had a weird relationship, too.... Not a lot of chemistry...
This story us about a family that was torn apart by a tragedy that happened twenty years ago.
When she us released from the hospital she goes back home to the island to spend time with her family.
Jo Ellen - afraid to love anyone so she burgs herself in her work and keeps her distance from her family.
Sam the father- so hurt, full of anger, and just wants to know why she left them..After all this time they find out that their mother didn't leave that she was in fact murdered all them years ago.
I liked the plot and the main idea for the story.
I don't like hearing a curse word every other word in a movie, why would I want to read it in a book either?
Sorry, but you can totally tell a woman wrote this book.
Yeah, when a male writer writes a love story, there is sex.
I can handle maybe one detailed love scene in a book, but please, I'd rather not read it every other chapter.I really liked the end of this book, which is probably the only plus I can really say about it.
It just isn't my kind of story.
On a scale of one to ten, it's better than a kick in the pants. Marginally.
I always enjoy Nora. I find her style good to escape in four a few hours. yes her books are fairly predictable but getting there is always good.
I loved it. It was great. Full of suspense, love, and mystery just like all of Nora's books. I loved the island setting, too. It was easy for me to paint the image in my mind being a Floridian.
She's also naked...And dead.When Jo Ellen comes out of the hospital, the photo of her mother is gone, like it was never there, and she takes refuge on the island of Lost Desire, in her home, with her estranged family, in order to get back on her feet, thinking she'd be safe.But evil has followed Jo Ellen.
La nota final es un 3.5Como siempre digo Nora Roberts tiene dos tipos de libros, los que escribe en la actualidad con tramas enreversadas, personajes profundos, grandes misterios y trabajos artísticos muy interesantes.
Aunque ambos trabajos son artísticos la autora no los ha descrito y los ha transmitido como hace en otras ocasioones, quizás porque aún estaba desarrollando ese aspecto de sus protagonistas.El final me pareció algo precipitado y me hubiera gustado que el epílogo hablara sobre lo ocurrió años después del final y no tan solo unas horas.Por todo lo anterior y por el excelente y único estilo de la autora, no me cabe más que recomendar sus libros y seguir descubriendo más de sus joyas.
Norah Roberts is always entertaining. This romance/mystery is set on an island in Georgia and follows the arc of not only one romance but three. Great beach read.
Proslost nam se uvijek vrati, ostrvo Zelja krije tajne koje napokon bivaju saznate...
In dem Roman „Insel der Sehnsucht“, geschrieben von Nora Roberts im Jahr 1997 mit englischem Originaltitel “Sanctuary“, geht es um eine Familie mit drei Kindern, die durch das spurlose Verschwinden der Mutter von der Insel SANCTUARY zerbrochen ist und wieder zueinander findet.
Nach dem Verschwinden der Mutter der Hathaway Kinder: Jo Ellen Hathaway, Brian Hathaway und Lexy Hathaway als sie noch recht jung waren, ist das Leben nicht mehr so wie es früher war, klingt klischeehaft, ist es auch.
Doch war das nicht genau die Absicht des Absenders Jo Ellen, die ihrer Mutter so unglaublich ähnlich ist, wieder auf die Insel zu bekommen?
You never report it or look more closely into it, for real?- Your friend suddenly disappears and you find it strange but do not do anything about it, seriously?- Why Nora Roberts LOVES putting a character of a slutty sister in almost every book?
This one (Leslie) was slutty and annoying just like any other.- Nathan almost fucks Jo's sister (Leslie), but manages to stop in time, and that makes it okay?
Would you like to be with a man who gets a boner around your younger sister?
(view spoiler)[Would you really like to end up with a guy whose father and brother raped and murdered your mother?
I have read one Nora Roberts in the past (Midnight Bayou) which I really liked.
Strangely enough, it was the ONLY one of her books I liked.
The very first sentence in this book reminded me too much of DuMaurier's "Rebecca", for a start; a little unoriginal.
If you love over-the-top sex scenes (and let's face it, nobody in the real world would have sex like these people), an island full of beautiful people (talk about unrealistic) and something which doesn't require a lot of thinking to read then this is for you.
Perhaps that was due to the fact that this book was more than 400 pages long.
I didn't like the fact that every single person is strikingly handsome, happens to find a soul mate right there waiting for them, and they keep having fabulously stupendous sex all the time including all the first times, which is soooo likely.
Also including in the case of one person who's never enjoyed sex and all of a sudden has awesome orgasms all the time.
Gee, where does one buy the ticket to this island, where (mad murderer aside, granted) one bumps in to beautiful sex gods and goddesses who are just waiting for their Mr or Mrs Right to show up?
Well, it had to happen, I guess: I finally found a Nora Roberts book I didn't like!
I really hate reading about people keeping secrets from each other for the whole book.
I don't think it was adequately explained why people believed Belle just left her family with nothing in her possession and no past history of treating them badly.
And I had the murderer pegged the minute I read the first sentence introducing him/her.
The setting up of another character as the must-be-him murderer was too overdone.
I really, really did not like the play-by-play rape scenes.
Nunca pensé que pondría una estrella a un libro de Nora Roberts, pero aquí estoy.Nora Roberts no es ni cerca la mejor escritora del mundo, pero en sus libros siempre he encontrado historias románticas sencillas y entretenidas, de esas que son mi, nada oculto, gusto culposo.
No lo voy a negar, cuando comencé este libro le tenía expectativas porque me recordó a Claro de Luna, que es lo mejor que he leído de la autora, la cual se trataba de una historia de misterio con una buenas dosis de romanticismo ¿Pero que me encontré?
369 de una historia vacía, con unos personajes que no son sólo planos sino que involucionan a medida que avanzan las páginas.
En definitiva, una pérdida de tiempo.
She spends the rest of the night thing about the photos, a possible stalker, and her family, which she despises and about her mother Annabelle who supposedly walked out on the family and their island home/inn when she was a kid.
The killer also comes to the island (and I already know who it is...).Nathan runs into Jo and thinks she's hot and looks like her mother who is dead....he immediately hits on her hard and she repeatedly brushes him off.
Esta fotógrafa pensa que conheceu o seu novo refúgio para será que consegue encontrar o amor? Talvez o amor da sua vida ou ficará em perigo?? É um romance com aquele mistério já bem característico desta autora e que adoro tanto ler. Fico tão embrenhada na leitura que não consigo parar de ler. Adoro!http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Cannot put my finger on it but I do feel that something was lacking in this book. Maybe a little more depth to the mystery? I am not so sure. Don't get me wrong I enjoyed the story just felt a little empty at times.
