https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112325.Earthly_Possessions
Anne Tyler makes tiny lives sparkle. In fact, she's way more about character development than plot, and the actual content comes from a resistance in the protagonist to change. We've seen this previously in her later novels, "The Accidental Tourist" & "Breathing Lessons." That she avoids exaggeration in her prose & opts for a clean, crisp telling is a real valediction of her earthly prowess.

3.5 stars, rounded down.Anne Tyler can take quirky, oddball, and unorthodox and turn it into familiar, approachable, and honest in the course of a 250 page novel.
What it actually becomes is an opportunity for Charlotte to consider her life in a different light, and while she learns more about herself, so do we.
This is not one of her best works, but it felt very familiar to me (without feeling predictable) and I enjoyed reading it.
Nice break from the disappointments I have had lately.
A break to regroup and consider the next step...we all need that from time to time.
It is refreshing to read a book that is not set in the past, yet is without references to our modern conveniences because they simply weren't around yet.
Charlotte Emory has felt trapped pretty much all of her life.
Growing up with her mother sighing and complaining that her own baby was switched with the wee baby Charlotte shortly after birth, it's not much of a reach to think she felt as though she didn't belong there.
Now, at age 35, Charlotte has never really shaken the idea that she should be living some other life.
Charlotte is ready to make the break and leave.
"The marriage wasn't going well and I decided to leave my husband."So begins Anne Tyler's story of a woman named Charlotte, 35, from a small town in Maryland, sometime in the mid-1970s.
Charlotte Emory is kidnapped by a young ne'er-do-well at the bank counter, and on their hasty flight south to Florida in a stolen car (the passenger-side doors locked with chains), she looks back upon the entirety of her prosaic life.
Her parents' unhappy marriage, father a gloomy studio photographer, mother an ailing Zeppelin of a woman, her childhood spent in dreams of flight from her narrow circumstances.
Looking forward now to catching up with the rest of Anne Tyler's oeuvre.
In the present, she has been dragged away, at gun point, as the hostage of a bank robber named Jake Simms.During the flashback chapters, the reader gets the story of how a young woman tried to go off to college, but family events called her back.
Meanwhile, on the run with Jake Simms, Charlotte is, once again, not in control of events.
As in every Anne Tyler book, the main character finds a way to grow, to see things differently, and take back her life on her own terms.
Hade P l a n e r för denna söndag, men omprioriterade och släpade upp kudde och filt till Sheen Common för fyra timmar i solen med en Anne Tyler från -77. Roadtrip och vardagsvisdom i form av longitudinellt ifrågasättande av tvåsamhetsnormen. Underbar!
I've said it before and I'll say it again. Anne Tyler is a constant. Good solid writing with a lovely story albeit sometimes tragic in theme. earthly possessions is no different. A bank robber and his hostage learn they're not so different when they're caught in a car for weeks running from the law. I loved the robustness of the characters and the many comical moments. Read it if you need a book that doesn't make you work too hard.
A paperback copy of this book was given to me by one of my favorite college professors, Barbara Mallonee, after I finished a writing course with her. She wrote a note in it saying that from what she knew of me, she thought I would like the writing of Anne Tyler. I have to thank her for introducing me to Anne and for being such a wonderful, inspiring teacher. She is one of the role models I used when I decided to become a teacher myself.
This is my fourth Anne Tyler novel, and although I liked it a bit better than The Tin Can Tree, it is still not on par with Breathing Lessons or The Accidental Tourist.
I was interested in her marriage and family life.
What I wasn't interested in was the subplot with Jake, the bank robber.
The fact that the book was so short made it difficult for Tyler to fully explore the differing points of view of the various characters, which she does to full effect in Breathing Lessons.In short, this is a good, not great book.
But this portrait of Middle America, where a housewife married to a preacher gets kidnapped by a dumb male, who is about to embark on a book-long quest to find his teenage pregnant girlfriend, left me speechless.
So Charlotte had a terrible childhood, let others push her around and and did for them instead of for herself her whole life, and then she wants to run away.
Charlotte ended up back with her husband, and Jake ends up with Mindy in Florida or North Carolina or somewhere.
The whole book was about how they were all SO happily trapped by their circumstances and poor education.
I coast by daily, letting others push or pull me in the direction that suits them.
To me it's just easier to let someone else steer my life.
Reading this book has made me a little more aware of my coasting and I know I need to take charge of my life in general and stop asking people 'what do you want to do today' or 'what do you want for supper' etc...
But let's face it.
I know I probably won't.At least I can escape into a different life every time I pick up a book!http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/7...

How have I not read any Anne Tyler before?
Beautifully constructed slightly odd narrator Charlotte Emory.
Wonderful inciting incident grabs you from the off.
Loving kind characters even the bank robbers - she finds the humanity in everyone.
Sometimes very funny and poignant at the same time.
Felt like a long time ago but then Mindys reference to Elton John made me realise it's set in the late seventies I think.
Kept thinking lots of the sections in Charlotte's past were standalone short stories.
Only 200 pages but so much in them.
Not a word wasted.
3.5. You’d think a novel centered around a highly passive protagonist would be boring, but if anyone can make that character interesting, it’s Anne Tyler. This is one of her books that glides along and convinces you that fictional people are real. I wish I could give it another star but...I guess I’m just too passive.
That’s a premise I think most of us can identify with, at least at low points, but I felt less connected to these characters, saw less of my life in them than I usually do with a Tyler novel.
There are flashes of the Anne Tyler I love, in the descriptions that are just so exactly right that they paint a clear picture in our minds or remind us of a feeling we’ve known before, but it was a bit too gloomy and lacking in the humor and warmth of Tyler’s later works for me to totally enjoy this.
NOTE: I hate the look and feel of these Ballantine editions.
Oh, Anne Tyler, you are a genius.
Characters that breathe into you off the page, you almost feel like a voyeur, peering into the details of their lives.
She has longed for escape, and one day she decides to go to the bank to get the money she needs to leave, when she is taken hostage in a bank robbery.
I can't shake the characters - it's as if I've known them for a long time and feel attached.
That's Tyler at her usual best.
Long waitlist for her latest, A spool of Blue Thread.
Anne Tyler creates characters that are so well-developed they seemingly pop off the page and inhabit your life.
This is the genius of Anne Tyler.
Short on plot (who needs it?), this book resonates through all its quirky characters, as seen through the eyes of Charlotte Emory.
Charlotte is taken hostage in a botched bank robbery and hustled off in stolen cars to Florida.
The chapters switch between the story of her life in Clarion and the story of being a hostage.
I adore Anne Tyler's books.
This is a reader's treat--so go ahead and treat yourself to this book.
I picked this up at the library because I had read and liked several of Anne Tyler's more recent novels, but hadn't read any of her older ones.
I read this one in just a couple of days, and enjoyed it.
And for some reason, I never get tired of it...I suppose because it's all about the journey to self-awareness and learning to appreciate what you have, and that never really gets old.
Anne Tyler is genius. There is so much here. None of it easy, but a lot here. The book twists on the stories we tell ourselves and the stories others tell about us. On marriages and growing up and the importance of objects and their folly too. Brilliant.
A bored housewife is kidnapped and goes on a road journey with her young hopeless kidnapper. Well-written, and I appreciated the bleak humour, but all the characters are so passive, stupid, barely functioning that I found this a depressing unenlightening read.
I'd heard so much about Ann Tyler's Breathing Lessons that I went to the library to borrow it.
Unfortunately, the only Ann Tyler available was 'Earthly Possessions', one of her lesser known work.
During this long-awaited escape from her stifling, overcrowded family life, she tells her own story of loyalty and frustration that will resonate with anyone who at times may have felt love for people and things to be a burden instead a blessing.In a way, this book reminded me of 'The Stranger' by Albert Camus, although Charlotte is deeply human and not at all a psychopath!Well worth the two or three evenings it takes to read.
This is the first Anne Tyler book I've read in years, having read several as a teenager in high school.
EARTHLY POSSESSIONS is a quick read, a short and snappy book that tells the story of a woman who has spent her whole life planning to leave home.
The story seems to be more of an exploration of the circumstances in which the lead character is forced to reflect on her life, her family and her decisions until she ends up coming full circle.
I can't say I loved it, though it was interesting and - as always with Anne Tyler - very well written.

I always feel like the characters in an Anne Tyler book are familiar friends right from the beginning of each book and this was no exception.Charlotte has a life she did not choose for herself.
She loves her husband but he frustrates her by the life he chooses for them.
She loves her mother but is ashamed of her at the same time.
When taken as a hostage she goes along willingly because it becomes her way to escape.
When she gets the chance to return, will she take it?
Will she keep running?
Will she end up happy and content in the end?
Rating: 3 starsTyler's writing style draws readers from the very start: she phrases things in a way that comes across as both simple and captivating. The first few chapters stood out. On the whole, however, I didn't feel as if the story reached its full potential. i was hoping for something more to be gained...or perhaps, later on, I started to find the glimpses of Charlotte's past distracting.
Ann Tyler is always a fun book to read. Quirky characters usually unhappy with their hum drum lives who none the less do magnificent things. This rather unhappy young lady, planning to run from her husband and his extended family that all live together in Baltimore area, gets abducted from the bank by a 20 something mixed up kid. Fun to read and laugh at the antics but always profound feelings of her characters.
I enjoyed this book and I loved the main character.Maybe I shouldn't be as willing to admit I like the main character, a woman desperate to minimise her possessions so that she can up and leave when the moment is just right.
I definitely enjoy the freedom of being able to move anywhere relatively freely, so how will I cope when I'm "all tied up in the lives here"?
I haven't read much from this setting, very middle-America, and it's an odd little tale.
A quick but very pleasing and thought-provoking read.
Charlotte has always wanted to run away. She has lived in Clarion all her live and never left town. Even for a vacation. Then a trip to the bank sends her on a unexpected trip as she is taken hostage by a bank robber. Short easy read book.
This was my first Anne Tyler book. She's a good writer - period. This was a short novel, well told. Interesting characters described with simple language. Or maybe they are simple characters told with interesting language? In any case, I'd gladly read another book of hers.
