https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353.Time_Enough_for_Love
Time Enough for Love demonstrates the fundamental attractiveness of science fiction, the eternal hope that things will get better.
Time Enough for Love goes one step further and introduces us to Lazarus Long (though he was in prior Heinlein novels) as the oldest living human, over 2,000 years old.
Heinlein’s voice, whether Lazarus Long, or Jubal Hershaw, is that of Heinlein himself, his experience is cast upon science fiction of the future.
The best thing about Heinlein is that he is a good writer, a great writer of science fiction.
- Mr. Lazarus Long, since you happen to be passing through the early twenty-first century, could you give us a few priceless gems of homespun wisdom for the Goodreads membership to marvel at?- Gosh darn it, when I see all the cute females on this site, how can I say no?
Could you just pass me the...
cuneiform tablets?
Next time someone calls you a motherfucker, simply take them at their word.
Of course, a time machine is useful here.4.
Don't make these lists too long.
By the time you've got half a dozen items, everyone will already be yawning.5.
Time Enough for Love is like Arabian Nights, but in reverse; Laz is telling his stories for his right to die.So the structure necessitates a kind of “bracketing” set up, wherein Lazarus’ tales are divided by his present experiences in the rejuvenation clinic.
Heinlein brings everything together nicely once Lazarus regains an interest in life and goes on to set up his free-lovin’ hippie commune on the planet Boondock, and all of a sudden his present becomes the next tale.The number one complaint that I’ve noticed in other reviews is with Heinlein’s apparent preoccupation with incest.
There is plenty of Heinlein's reshaping/questioning of social mores in Time Enough for Love (much like Stranger in a Strange Land); however, without the driving force of Stranger's narrative behind it, Time Enough mostly feels disjointed and long-winded.
There are some interesting stories here (including one involving colonization on a more primitive planet and time travel to one's own youth); however, the more developed stories occur very late in the novel.
Throughout the book, his spokesman makes interesting observations on life and love (but some of that is undermined by Heinlein's patriarchal tone, preoccupation with incest and his seeming belief that most women want to have lots and lots of children).
In other words, I know the man's limitations.With all this said, I still think that TEFL qualifies as a curmudgeonly masterpiece, and it banged my head against a wall again and again and said "Get a life, man!
In TEFL, like in other novels, Heinlein cut through taboos (and especially those relating to sex and its many expressions) with gusto.
And along the way, for those who think about the potential for significant human longevity becoming a reality fairly soon, it gives us a lot of food for thought.
In a book with nearly 600 pages, only 30 of them contained a story I cared about.(view spoiler)[The author’s command of the English language was acceptable, but there were a few spelling errors that made me stumble, not to mention irritating characterization of everyone but the main character (affecting nearly all of the females).
While Heinlein is fully capable of stringing together a coherent sentence, his inability to SHOW and not TELL leaves the story to drag on quite painfully for nearly 600 pages.The first issue I have with this story is the disturbing lack of conflict, which is what usually drives the characters and plot forward.
I'm almost halfway through it and I need to write a half review because I'm going to lose my memories just like Lazarus Long.#1.
This is a pathetic old man (Heinlein was 66) hanging on to his memories of a bygone era.
It goes without saying, but this is some fucked up gender shit.
Now I know how this weak ass shit is going to end.OMG the synopsis was a lie.
I wanted him to die soooo badly.
You want to know about the plot of the second half?
Three more shit Heinlein books and I'm done forever.
This was a book that took me a long time to get through, but when I got done, it was well worth it.
I found that reading the book in segments, a part here and a part there, worked better for me.One of my favorite parts was the Notebooks of Lazarus Long, a section of maxims full of common sense.
In some ways reminded me of works like One Thousand Nights and a Night and Don Quijote (not the Man of La Mancha's idealism, but the novel's integration of different genres and elements).
This has become one of my favorite books.
I could read stories about Lazarus’ life for months, but unfortunately this book only contains two.
This is the first of the last four books Heinlein wrote, and it was clear he was nearing the end of his life, looking mortality straight in the face and writing his fantasy of living forever.
I wish I had access to the complete memoirs of Lazarus Long, but unfortunately they won’t be available for a couple thousand years, and I’m pretty sure I’m not going to live that long.
That is all.I think RAH transcends mere sexuality (or he's a horny old goat, one) and winds a tale in his 'future history' series that is unlike anything else I've ever read.
IOW, I don't think he could have quite told the tale without sorta 'getting rid' of standard morals about sex and love.This IS one of my favorites of the series, but I've got to re-read it to remember why I was left with such strong sentiment about this particular book.
(Which I'd imagine was NEVER RAH's intention.)I love Lazarus Long, cranky old coot who needed to be put in his place and that place, at least in part, is (in part) in my consciousness.
Yuck.Lazarus Long, the main character of this book, is a great character in a lot of ways.
Interesting & horrifying on different levels which Heinlein uses as the vehicle to explore a lot of subjects in this brick of a book.
(I think the sayings are also published as The Notebooks of Lazarus Long, same things, just a way to grab more money.) A lot of it is interesting, but be prepared to skim other parts.
He gets very wordy as Lazarus (Heinlein) expounds on certain ideas.Unfortunately, he descends into exploring sex, not a topic that he handles well.
(If there is a form of heterosexual incest that isn't featured here, I missed it.) I borrowed a copy of this book from a friend who's a bigger Heinlein fan than I am, and he warned me that it was a book he hadn't been able to finish (and he didn't want me complaining later that I hadn't warned him ;-).

"Lazarus, we need your wisdom." In the midst of a dozen people who utterly love him, Lazarus Long is slowly restored to love of life and living and finds a challenge and a reason to live.
During this process, the 'wise' old man gives his memories of his long life, and proves the value of teaching the young, though he is loathe to do so.
Old people realize that the young often don't want the hard-won gems of wisdom they possess.
I highly recommend this novel to people of mature years, as they'll need the wisdom to sort out the gems from the rubbish, and to ignore a growing sexuality prone to depravity and incest.
Not his best (in my openion). Tying up the Long's story. In his later years Heinlein got more comfortable with putting his thoughts into his books. I find him (and some may disagree with this or find it odd) very close to Ayn Rand in some ways.
All right, another rating biased by the age at which I read this book.
I read Time Enough for Love in what was then the Soviet Union over the course of a white night.
At any rate, Time Enough for Love is a decent enough story and entertaining.
Par for the course with Heinlein, though, is negotiating his complicated relationship to gender and his often overblown moralising.
This is not to say that these issues are wholly negative; Heinlein's relationship to gender and morality is more or less a caricatured libertarianism but, like libertarianism, is often theoretically interesting.
al., this book has enough proverbs, pithy sayings, thou-shalt-nots, and who-begat-whom's to qualify as a potential "Hedonists' Bible." Unlike some of Heinlein's other works, the gratuitous sex is kept to something of a minimum (not ignored!), and he instead focuses on the attitudes and platitudes that have allegedly kept his main charater alive for 2500+ years in an exciting and dangerous universe.
Still, they admit, it's a pretty good yarn, and so leave in even the "obvious" lies so that the reader may come "to better understand" the oldest man who ever lived.I read this book years ago, but just recently re-read it to refresh my memory, and had a blast doing it.

A Review-----The Players-----Terence Ash – publisher and editorRobert Ash – younger brother, sub editorChartwell - Office assistant and explorer of the darker corners of staplesEdgar – warehouseman and dogsbodyHeinry Lein - writerTIME ENOUGH FOR LOVEHeinry Lein - Hello I wonder if you would be so kind as to look atthis.Robert Ash - What is it?Heinry Lein - A manuscript.Robert Ash - A manuscript?Heinry Lein - You Know Ink on paper ....Words.Robert Ash - Oh!
I've reread a few Heinlein books recently, and I realize as I have with so many other books that I read when I was young, (believe it or not, I think I might have been 10 the first time I read this, I was certainly no more than 12) how much they shaped my sense of myself.
I also realize that my attitude towards accepting people into my family circle comes in large part from Heinlein and to some extent Bradley, who I also read at an early age.
Yuck!
Since his introduction (which I read in the "The Past Through Tomorrow" collection), I've always been captivated by the long-lived, sage, straight-talking know-it-all (even when Heinlein called him Jubal Harshaw), and he makes a great protagonist for the various tales collected in this pseudo-novel.
That Heinlein uses Lazarus and the Howard families (a two thousand year old man and a family genetically bread for long life) to make a case for the brevity of life and living every moment to its fullest just makes it all the more interesting.For those that say this work is mysogenistic, I guess I can almost see where you're coming from, but in all fairness, all of the characters in this novel are pervy and sex-obsessed.
The leader of this planet has foolishly asked the rambling old man to tell him random and stupid stories from his past, giving the lecherous bore an excuse to waffle on ad nauseum for the next, literally, 600 pages - way way way too long.
He seems to spend most of his life adopting baby girls and then sleeping with them once they reach puberty.
Its only saving graces are his amusingly outrageous aphorisms and a readable last 100 pages - where he goes back in time to WWI...
and sleeps with his own mother (there is a LOT of incest in this book).
In the end, our protagonist, Lazarus Long, proves himself to be, literally, a motherf***er.Wikipedia says: "Three novels from (Heinlein's middle) period, Stranger in a Strange Land, The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, and Time Enough for Love, won the Libertarian Futurist Society's Prometheus Hall of Fame Award, designed to honor classic libertarian fiction." Stranger in a Strange Land and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress are two of my favorite science fiction novels.
I don't put Time Enough for Love in the same class.
I knew that Heinlein espoused libertarianism and free love; Time Enough for Love made me wonder if he had an Oedipus complex.
A number of fellow poly-folk and friends whom I respect highly had mentioned this book when discussing their awakening to their polyamourous natures, and so I decided to pick it up a while back.
Heinlein's writing is difficult for me to read because I feel it's a bit convoluted and sometimes poorly executed, but he is a great storyteller, and while I can't say that I agree with all the values espoused in his novels, I do think that in the long run, I understand why this book has been so influential on so many of the people I love and respect, and I enjoyed being given that insight.
My favorite book of all time. So many stories, so much wisdom, and a cast of characters I love spending time with. I can't give it an objective review. I'm just too much in love with it. This is the story of the lives of Lazarus Long, oldest member of the human race. He's been alive for thousands of years, and saw humanity go from the idyll of pre-World War I to the conquest of space and beyond. He's practiced nearly every profession, sired hundreds of children, and now he's bored with life and looking for something interesting to do.
Before everyone rants on me, yes, I know there are many problems with this book. but I read it long before recognized or understood (as in understood on a gut level) about things like sexism, incest, etc, and this book hit home with me. I haven't read it in decades and now I am almost afraid to. I want to keep the feeling in my heart that I have when I just think about Lazarus Long, and other characters, of course.My memory sings five stars to me and that's where it stays.
This was the only Heinlein book we were banned from reading when we were kids because it made such a convincing argument for sex outside of marriage or any other social construct. This is also one of the best love stories of all time. Go Dora!
One of his themes is that any type of sex is ok, as long as no one is harmed by the action, which excuses a lot that many would find unacceptable such as statutory rape or incest, or when the story was published, homosexuality.
I agree that the reason for the taboo of incest is the problem of genetic nightmares resulting from the action and the way he wants to do it, does remove the problem.
However, I think in our culture, we are pretty far from being able to deal with incest, and I would not recommend it today.
And maybe it's terribly prudish of me, but then the main character slept with his two female, young teenage clones, and my stomach kind of churned.
It's not like that was the first thing to bother me, I wasn't a huge fan of the main character to begin with.
Perhaps I needed to have some background on this character before I started, but I'm honestly not sure I would have wanted to.
So anyway, I'm sorry, I really wanted to like this book, but I just can't pretend I did.
