https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46685.The_Good_Mother
the plot centers around a divorced woman, her 3-year-old daughter, molly, and her artist lover, leo.
one of the questions that the novel raises, i think, is what makes a good mother.
when anna's custody of her daughter is threatened by her ex-husband due to leo’s (innocently intended and probably not harmful) actions, anna's strongest response is to abandon leo to increase her chance of retaining custody of molly.
it is arguable that the most important demonstration of the story is that if you try both to live a free life and be a good mother at the same time society will slap you down.
As Anna begins to get back on her feet, she starts seeing a new man, Leo, and for the first time in her life, she feels free.
When an incident occurs between Leo and Molly, Anna must decide what's important to her and figure out how to get it.Besides being a page-turner, Sue Miller's first novel contains intricate themes and forces readers to ask themselves tough questions about society’s expectations and what makes a good mother.
Her words construct vivid images in the minds of readers, so much that they can feel Anna's world around them.The Good Mother is an important book to be read by anyone with an open heart and mind.
I was physically accosted by an unfamiliar woman when I was checking this book out in the library.
She was quite literally shaking with anticipation for me to read, love, and devour this book.
It was by far her most absolute, favorite-of-all-time book!!
I know how it feels to love a book so much that you just want to share your joy and have others love it just as much.
Well, let me say that it's not the worst book I've ever read, but I certainly wouldn't chase somebody across the library and gush unabashedly over it.
The cover of the book poses a question about whether she should chose her lover or her daughter when she is being…..the good mother.
The reviews which are actually just summaries focus solely on the situation which occurs between Anna's lover and her daughter and creates a sense of her facing this Sophie’s choice type situation.
Yes, there is a situation in the book where Anna, the protagonist, faces the situation of sexually inappropriate behaviour between her lover and her daughter.
It is impossible not to empathize with the man, Leo, but also understand why Molly’s father wants her out of that home and away from her mother.I wept for Anna and for the unfairness of life.
Came across a dusty copy in a secondhand store recently and so I'm curious to re-read as a cynical thirtysomething old bag.
We'll see....Finished this today and well, interesting that my 13 yr old self zoned in on the sex and glossed over the main thrust (arf) of the book, the custody battle for the child.
It was an ok read, but I found the main characters self absorbed and they just keep shagging all the time, morning noon and night, Its really irritating.
I see those mothers at Trader Joes blocking the aisles.
If you really want to enjoy this book start half-way through it.
I don't know why her editor didn't think of chopping the book down.
It likely would have sold a lot more copies.
The story is about a mother who gets divorced and retains custody of her child.
I often felt conflicted as to whether or not I wanted the mother to keep raising her child or not.
I'm not sure I liked the ending but at least it wasn't slow paced.
I don't know whether or not I would recommend this book.
Added 2/14/11. I finished reading this book in September 2011.As I got into the plot, I found parts of this story very compelling. I never thought I'd enjoy reading a book about a child-custody battle between a husband and wife, but Sue Miller has presented the story in such a way that you gradually get drawn in. That seems to be the nature of all of her books that I've read so far. She slowly draws you in. The ending is very sobering.
Miller pulled off something difficult here, making Anna a sympathetic character in spite of her careless behavior. A thought-provoking book.
The first half of the book kept me wondering if there was even a plot. When I figured out where the story was going, I no longer cared enough to finish it.
Surprisingly, the movie pretty much followed the story line in an abbreviated version.
Some scenes were directly from the book into the movie.
Was Anna a good mother to Molly?
What does it mean to be a good mother?
Will a good mother leave her child with a strange man?
The book was written in 1986, a fact that must be taken into consideration.
This book made me think.
This book made me think.
I was angry at the stupid mistakes made by the characters in this book.
But don't we all make stupid mistakes?
However, I despised the main character.
The story was about a family, Anna, Brian and Molly.
Anna and Brian get a divorce and Molly goes with Anna.
Anna meets Leo. She is very sexual with Leo and the sexuality bleeds into the relationship with Molly.
Brian sues for custody.
Anna is limp and doesn’t do a damn thing to fight for Molly.
This is not a character I could ever relate to.
Like her history and her family.
To me the most important part of her history was the fact she could not say no to a guy.
Boo. I thought I would really like another Sue Miller novel after "The Senator's Wife," but the main character in this book is so unbelievably narcissistic, I just can't find anything remotely redeeming in her.
I don't have a problem with Anna Dunlap leaving her husband - I do have a problem with the totally reckless behavior that followed, and I can't force sympathy for someone who would sleep with a guy AFTER he had been accused of something so wildly inappropriate.
I thought about what it would be like if my husband was in a similar situation with our daughter, and that just skeeves me out.
The Good Mother was a disappointment for me in several ways.
In fact, I would suggest that most people in the circumstance Leo placed her in would have protected her daughter by contacting the police and getting him charged with sexual misconduct with a minor, or depending on how angry they were choosing a Lorena Bobbit approach to settling matters.
A Good Mother would have protected her daughter at all costs!
This was a highly rated book in all the reviews I'd read. It was the first of several Sue Miller novels I intended to read. I chose The Good Mother for all of the possibilities this subject presented. For me, it was terribly written. Not one main character was to my liking and the clinical, flat tone of the writing made it tough for me to even finish. I'd like to see this topic tackled by an author I like. It could have been a really good book.
3.5. The writing is fantastic but the story was meh
Read it a long time ago. I remember liking it.
Almost blind to certain changes around her, Anna will soon find that these shocking changes will threaten her new love, her new "family" and will eventually force her to prove she is a good mother.I am not entirely sure, but I think that I may have read this book many, many years ago.
Some of the scenes in it seemed slightly familiar to me, but I don't think that my having read it before affected my rereading of the book too much - I still couldn't remember the ending of the story!
The only reason I picked it up was because I had previously read "While I was Gone", by Sue Miller, and quite enjoyed the book.
Sue Miller writes so vividly~ capturing exact moments, feelings and actions of her characters in such a real way.
The Good Mother really explores all ways that we may define what a "good mother" is…the main character Anna struggles with this throughout her life and through the events surrounding this book.
While this novel was published in the late 80s, I think it would garner lots of discussion among reading groups and book clubs.
I didn't particularly like this one.
I read it because it was mentioned on the cover of Harvesting the Heart, though I have two other books by this author that made no impression on me (to be honest, I think it was by mistake that I even had more than other one).
On the surface, I can see why this can be seen as similar to Jodi Picoult's work - the family drama, the court case...
Mostly, it felt like a book carrying a heavy-handed feminist slant and was barely masked in the plot.
If I could give this book 2 1/2 stars I would, because there were moments when I enjoyed it (most notably the courtroom scenes).
I thought she was extremely selfish in the first half of the book (seriously, who brings their young daughter into bed while having sex?!?), and any mention of her daughter seemed almost gratuitous.
I began to sympathize with her in the second part of the book and thought that her feelings about her daughter and lover finally seemed genuine, but it was almost too late at that point.
Beautifully written.
The mother in question wasn't, good...that is.
The novel was written before we had articulated magical thinking.
If that's the subject, then it's a brilliant treatise on magical thinking.
If Miller is saying the freedom limiting context of the larger family, grandfather particularly, is the only safe way to raise a child...she might have pulled that off.
But Anna, her protagonist, stumbles through her life, unsatisfied except for the critical fling with Leo, because she can't "hear the melody line before she plays it." She's right.
Shoulda worked harder on learning to do thatAnd endless bodily fluids in nearly every bloody chapter...really?
Good writing but it's hard to be sympathetic to the main character. She leaves her husband to find herself and becomes involved in a passionate affair with an artist. Her husband sues for custody and he wins on the grounds that her new found sexuality makes her a poor mother. I loved the writing but the "I gotta find myself and discover sexual passion, even if it damages my child" makes the character hard to like.
Anna Dunlop has amicably broken from her husband, and has primary custody of their four-year-old daughter, Molly.
During the course of her affair with Leo, she did not seem to consider what effect her behavior might have on her daughter, or how Molly might share her interpretations with her father.The book was written in 1986, and reviews published then called it "important" and "timely"; perhaps I judge too harshly from a thirty-year hindsight perspective.
Anna seemed naive in the ways of custody battles, unable to conceive of her child being taken from her, or that she might have to prove that she was a "good mother".
The parents and the young daughter seemed real to me, but the new boyfriend seemed too good to be true at times, too bad to be true at other times.
I just didn't believe that she would steal a gun and go to the beach and shoot it and then bury it.She rose to the occasion of being a very good mother when the father was awarded custody of the daughter and they lived in Washington, D.C. and she moved there to be nearby.
This book feels dated but the central question it asks about what it means to be a good mother hasn’t become any less urgent.
The protagonist allows her bohemian and childless boyfriend to run around the apartment naked in front of her young daughter and once the daughter even touches his penis.
The couple sleep naked with the daughter and once have sex while she’s in the bed.
Personally I was sickened by the mother’s continuing relationship with her lover when it became clear what he’d done and it was likely to cost her custody of her child.
I wanted to like this book, I really did, but I just couldnt not get into it.
I only stopped at the court scenes and the conversations so that I could get the general gist of the book.
By all rights, it should have been a great book.
(And I can firmly say that is one reason we have a no nudity policy but COME ON!!!)Maybe if I read this in a different time in my life I would have liked it more.
BUT, I had just finished book five of Harry Potter and am in the midst of a big move, so those things may have caused my dislike.)

Can anyone ever do both well?Recently divorced, Anna Dunlap loves her young daughter Molly to distraction.
Then Anna meets Leo who makes her feel like a sensual being for the first time in her life.Their love-filled life is blasted by legal proceedings launched by her ex-husband.
It was painful to read the lengths Anna had to go to to prove she is a good mother.
I felt that any family would not hold up well under the legal microscope.Harrowing, at times, this book honestly portrays one woman's emotional journey through hell and back.

This novel explores how we define what a good mother is. I found all the characters unlikable. I was unable to identify with Anna with each mistake she made. I found Anna's character infuriating and I found her behaviour appalling and shocking. Although Anna's behaviour was inappropriate, she was undeniably a mother. With all her faults she proved herself in the end. I particularly liked the descriptions of her childhood summers at her grandparent's camp and the relationship with her family.
