https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2046.Stories_and_Early_Novels
Chandler's work has much in common with the bigass Story Of America.
And the pageantry overhead is unexceptional, tedious, banal.In Chandler's period-perfect mid-thirties works, we see a lot of the threadbare and the seedy, last night's makeup, and the smoke & liquor remnants of celebrations long concluded.
Stars glide overhead in the night sky, and really big & powerful cars are parked outside.
When he wakes up, the cards in the deck have usually been reshuffled, and all new threats are at hand.Have to say I was reminded of the concerns of social drama, too-- there is more than a little of the Willie Loman character and his tormentors, in the equivocators of Chandler's floating world.I really don't know what Chandler wants for a conclusion, if he does.
Very nice edition. Thin (not India) paper; a ribbon for bookmark; includes a detailed biographical chronology and even notes on the text.
Yet Chandler manages to lubricate this minutiae with enlivening doses of humorous simile and insight, allowing them to easily nose their way through to the deeper leaves of human nature.It is somewhat tempting to say that the stories in this volume, following Dashiel Hammet, bring little new to the genre.
In fact, many of the pulp shorts in this collection almost seem like shines to Hammet's work; a logical progression or a taking up of the mantle, if you will.
The stories are quickly familiar--friendless shamus sets off to solve case of either blackmail or stolen pearls (seriously, you’d think he’d at least vary the gems); he gets on by being disarmingly open with all but the key facts, but is too hard boiled for anyone to fully trust him.
Story ends in a big shootout in which friendless shamus is miraculously spared.
From ten feet away she looked like something made to be seen from thirty feet away.” or “She gave me a smile I could feel in my hip pocket.” I’ve barreled on to volume two, knowing it means I will soon have no new Chandler novels in my future.
In my first round of reading Chandler (I had read The Big Sleep, Farewell My Lovely, and The Long Goodbye before starting this collection) I was most impressed by the language and the world-weary cynicism.
This time, while I still loved those things, I also came to appreciate the nature of Chandler's detectives, especially Marlowe.Unlike a lot of detectives, especially serialized detectives, Marlowe isn't that smart.
Many times Marlowe comes to the true explanation because he rejects false explanations that others accept because they're easier or more convenient.
When it comes to gritty crime writing, Raymond Chandler is still the best.
You can have the great dialogs of Elmore Leonard or the gritty scenes of James Ellroy's Los Angeles but they sit at the feet of Chandler and Philip Marlowe.I picked this edition of Chandler collections because it contains 'Red Wind', probably his best short story.
I love the beginning""Those hot dry winds that come down through the mountain passes and curl your hair and make your nerves jump and your skin itch.
Chandler is the king of pot-boiler crime writers.I'll knock off a star because the collections are kind of pricey.

The PG Wodehouse of Hardboil. "I felt terrible. I felt like an amputated leg." "The voice that answered was fat. It wheezed softly, like the voice of a man who had just won a pie-eating contest." "I wasn't doing any work that day, just catching up on my foot-dangling." Chandler's concern with mood to the point of cannibalizing plot points word-for-word and leaving plot holes is incredible (but you wouldn't notice). Top 10-ish despite some of the seedier plot elements.
You can really see the evolution in his writing from reading his stories and then into his novels. Re-reading the novels it brings back images of the movies that were made from these books.He writes cinematically with such visual descriptions of people, places, and action without getting bogged down in the descriptions. Now I want to see the movies again.
I really enjoyed reading Chandler's stories and first novels in order this way. The progress of his development as a writer and storyteller is obvious and quite interesting to track. I particularly liked the stories "Guns at Cyrano's" and "Pick-Up on Noon Street," and absolutely loved The High Window by the time I got to it. I'll definitely be moving on to Volume II.

The only thing better than a Raymond Chandler novel, is a collection of Raymond Chandler novels.
This one contains the first three Marlowe novels and an assortment of Chandler's early pulp stories.
Everything here is a winner.-The Big Sleep is classic hardboiled crime fiction that hits all the beats.
-Farewell, My Lovely is probably Chandler's best of this collection.
-I can't rate the pulp stories because they are all so wonderful and varied that I re-read them over and over again.
Each time I find something new.Check this collection out and I'm sure you will find something you like.
This review refers to the novel "The Big Sleep".This is Raymond Chandler's first novel featuring the private eye Philip Marlowe and my second outing with the tall, no nonsense shamus ("Lady in the Lake" being the 1st).I had been warned of the convoluted structure of the first half of the book so I paid close attention to the characters and was glad I did.The story is entertaining and had an adequate amount of mystery in it right up to the conclusion. I have the Chandler 2 book set from LOA so more Marlowe will be in the offing.
This book is wonderful -- maybe not perfect -- but wonderful all the same. And, to me, Chandler's writing tightened and improved as he went along, so the final story in this collection becomes the best.
These were fun reads. All the jargon of the 1930's was a hoot!
Very good. Descriptions are marvelous. Lots of old slang. Farewell my lovely especially good. Plan or reading the companion volume of his late works.
I only read The Big Sleep. I need to read another novel at least to have a more informed opinion.
Love the way those detectives talk. LOVE those metaphors they sling around.But could not keep all the bad guys (and gals) straight, except in "The Goldfish," which gets 5 stars.
This is surprisingly good. I mainly bought it because of the publisher, but Raymond Chandler is an entertaining author, even with his predilection for powder blue suits.
By this time you have likely guessed the dirty garment is a sheet covering several dead bodies.I'd rate The High Window as one of Chandler's lesser novels.
There's also a funny running gag about Marlowe's interactions with a lawn jockey standing by the front door of his client's house.
At one point Marlowe tells the lawn jockey that it's the only sane person in the household.
By the time the story wraps up, the reader is inclined to agree.I mentioned earlier that Marlowe lets the murderer get away with it.
And when I say tough guy, I mean it – Chandler’s protagonists take more beatings than old rug.
(Uh, I guess.)(12/14)Farewell My Lovely *** – Chandler’s writing is at times quite beautiful and quirky in this novel.
And this is a riveting mystery with unusual characters, swerving plot twists and grim humor.
Per Chandler’s norm, the plot is convoluted and, in the end, rather pointless.
The plot is tighter than Chandler’s earlier novels.
The main characters, though, are not quite as vivid as Chandler’s other novels.
Without spoiling the ending, I guess the novel does technically have a “surprise,” but it’s rather meh.
"The room he went into was paved with dirty brown linoleum, furnished with the peculiar sordid hideousness only municipalities can achieve." Blackmailers Don't Shoot, p.
-688[Vivian Regan:] "So you shoot people," she said quietly.
You know--professional pride.
Won't you please get dressed, Carmen?" .
You were dead, you were sleeping the big sleep, you were not bothered by things like that.
You just slept the big sleep, not caring about the nastiness of how you died or where you fell." -763-64"You're not going to turn out to be one of those drunken detectives, are you?" She asked anxiously."Why not?
With that piece of housekeeping out of the way, I will proceed to reviewing...or rather, in this case, to reverential, rhapsodic rejoicing!I read these stories 15 years ago and was so enamored that I tried to write my own version of a Phillip Marlowe entanglement set in the place and time I lived, Bellingham, WA of 1994.
Chandler uses time beautifully; I think most of these stories happen in three days or so, but they feel elongated by the way he alternates dialogue (where most of the action, in the form of plot twists, occurs) with solitary moments of waiting, noticing, thinking out loud to the reader, and waiting some more...all in witticisms that continually delight.
If you don't, I'm sorry for you."There was another quote from The High Window that I can't track down at the moment involving curtains puckering up like an old man that I will edit in if I find it again.
The description is incredible, and you just don't see writing like that very often anymore.Anyway, this omnibus includes 13 of Chandlers stories that were published in various Detective Mags as well as three of his novels, The Big Sleep, Farewell, My Lovely, and The High Window.I found all three novels to be very entertaining, as I really enjoy Philip Marlowe.
Thinking back over the three Marlowe novels I've just read, I'm actually not even sure he shot anyone.He's much more explicitly a hero in these books.
I found it rather touching, which isn't usually something you can say about noir fiction.The dozen or so short stories that precede the novels are a good intro to Chandler's style.
You also get to see Chandler tackle subjects and points of view he never touches in the novels: some protagonists are actually cops, for instance.
There's a reason Chandler's at the top of the list for 20th century detective fiction.
I later found that his works were included in the Library of America collection, and bought both volumes.This volume includes all of Chandlers's pulp stories, and the first three Philip Marlowe novels: The Big Sleep, Farewell My Lovely (my favorite) and The High Window.
The protagonists in the pulp stories have different names...Mallory, DeRuse, Sam Delaguerra, Johnny Dalmas, but they all share to some extent the characteristics of Philip Marlowe.
Tough yet tender, cynical and romantic, dedicated to doing their jobs and with a code.The Marlowe novels at their best are not just detective mystery stories; they're literature about the best and worst in human beings.
البته نقاط قوت زیادی هم داشت، من جمله شهر محل وقوع داستان که نماد یک اشرافیت "قلابی" بود؛ آدمهای تازه به دوران رسیده ای که زور می زدند برای خودشان کسی باشند.
و شخصیت اول داستان هم تجسم واقعگرایی تلخی بود که در نهایت پوچی این بند و بساط ها را بر ملا می کرد.
از دیگر نقاط قوت کتاب، دیالوگهای محشر و نفسگیرش بود (خصوصا دیالوگهایی که شخصیت اصلی با زنها داشت!).
ولی از طرف دیگر، خیلی از توصیفات اضافی بود و برای فضاسازی، احتیاجی به همه آنها نبود.
ولی در نهایت، تنها می توان گفت که این کتاب، بیانیه غرایی بود، ولی داستان جذابی نداشت.ا
[...] John commented on some parallels between Chandler and William Gibson (one of my perennial favorites), citing the former as a major and obvious influence on the latter.
[...] I agree with John that Chandler’s influence on Gibson is apparent though I think they are going after far different goals as writers: Case is the illegitimate son of the illegitimate son of Philip Marlowe and though they’re living in the same neighborhood, headed in opposite directions on the same street.Or maybe it makes more sense to compare Marlowe with Hammett's Sam Spade?
Marlowe as the teeth-clenched pragmatist to Sam Spade's hopeless romantic?
Or maybe that's just Marlowe's LA to Spade's San Francisco?more: [http://blog.founddrama.net/2007/06/ra...]
"What did it matter where you lay once you were dead?
In a dirty sump or in a marble tower on top of a high hill?
You were dead, you were sleeping the big sleep, you were not bothered by things like that.
You just slept the big sleep, not caring about the nastiness of how you died or where you fell.
Me, I was part of the nastiness now.
Far more a part of it than Rusty Regan was.
And in a little while he too, like Rusty Regan, would be sleeping the big sleep."
I borrowed this and it's companion of later works as it was the only way the Brooklyn Public Library offered me a way to read the High Window and Playback (the latter in the second volume).
The High Window is the first of the thin (dare I call it fluff?) Marlowes.
Nowhere near approaching the density of the Big Sleep or the substantive charm of Farewell, My Lovely, the High Window is still one to go by.So what the hell may as well as read the short stories from the pulps, too eh?
